IFC ANNOUNCES FROLICS PLANS (See Page Three) VOL. LIV. A NEW New Assistant Coach Ken first afternoon of spring f on Page Four. LOOK — || — Blair barks signals at the football practice. See story (Staff Photo by Thel.) | mosphere Che DAVIDSON COLLEGE, Committee On Fraternities Aautsnnian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1965 GRIDDERS BEGIN SPRING DRILLS (See Page Four) NUMBER TWENTY-TWO Readies Report For Tuesday Visitors To Amherst Find Life Stimulating By TED GLUSMAN Davidsonian Feature Writer Eight Davidson upperclassmen gave up their Spring Vacations last week to participate in the second half of Amherst’s student exchange program with Southern colleges. The eight who visited for a week in Amherst, Mass., with side trips to Harvard and other Northern colleges were John Barrow, Rick Brand, Danny Boone, Charlie Dibble, Tom Frist, David Powell, Ted Pulliam, and Tommy Heffner. They were impressed. To a man, they commented on the more exciting intellectual atmosphere at Amherst, the greater involvement of the students in the world around them, and the greater independence and sense of responsibility they show. Dibble commented, “They've got us out-classed in every respect except—I like a Southern atmosphere.” Pulliam added that “they were more excited about some of the things they were learning.” MORE INVOLVED The Amherst student, they felt, is involved in civil rights and social reforms, is more excited by his studies, and tends to combine his intellectual life with his recreation. By and large, this was attributed to the more relaxed social atmosphere there. Girls are allowed in the Amherst dormitories and drinking is allowed on the campus. Added to this is the fact that some 4,000 coeds at Smith and Mt. Holyoke Colleges are within ten miles of the 1,200 Amherst men, creating a social atmosphere that Barrow called “more conducive to casual relationships than ours.” Amherst is more varied than Davidson insofar as types of students are concerned. Powell commented, “They're much more heterogeneous than us," and called them “guys who were genuinely interested in things, and weren't condemned for it—they weren't called ‘flies’ or anything.” SELF-CRITICISM Yet Amherst, with its integration of academic activity with pleasure and its “melting pot” student body, is sharply self-critical in these two areas. “They want their Admissions Department to get more ‘oddballs,’ more geniuses, more creative people,” stated Frist. “Maybe what Davidson needs is some ‘different’ people.” Secondly, Amherst is concerned about combining work and pleasure more successfully. They are critical of what Barrow called the “dichotomy between social and academic life.” But he opined that “it’s a lot more applicable here than there,” and Frist quipped, “We're so dichot!” Most of the eight seemed to feel that Davidson should be more concerned about combining work and pleasure. (Continued on Page Six) AAUP Writing Article On Speaker-Ban Law The Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors is in the process of preparing an article on the North Carolina Communist Speaker-Ban law for possible publication in the AAUP national journal. Professor Richard Gift, chairman of the Davidson AAUP’s speaker-ban committee, described the project as a “scholarly article on the history and the effects of the speaker-ban law.” He said that it was hoped that this article might appear in the AAUP journal, but that this was not a certainty. Gift added that the speaker-ban committee was actively engaged in communication with numerous legislators in an effort to gain action toward repeal or amendment of the law. Davidson AAUP chapter President J. H. Oswalt said that many individual chapters of this organization throughout the state are carrying on similar campaigns and have pledged their support to the Davidson chapter. “The Davidson College chapter has been cooperating with the state AAUP in the matter,” said Oswalt, adding that the state AAUP was sending letters concerning its stand on the ‘gag law’ to all legislators, and was making personal contact with them whenever possible. “The situation is in the hands of the House and the Senate now,” explained Oswalt. “Senator Jennings G. King of Scotland County tells us that he feels the best tactic to follow is to push amendments rather than complete repeal. Of course, our position favors complete repeal,” he added. Oswalt said that tentative ‘gag law’ amendments were in the hands of Senator King. When asked what these amendments might entail, Oswalt explained that their general thrust would be toward giving the state-supported schools the responsibility of speaker control. At present, the ‘gag law’ itself is the sole controlling factor. Opponents of the law feel that some degree of amendment is favored in the Senate, but they are not nearly as certain as to the position of the House. Oswalt noted that though this issue is no longer headline news a constant flow of letters to newspapers throughout the state from people on both sides of the debate indicates “this is a pretty live issue yet.” J. H. OSWALT “Complete Repeal” IFC DE-EMPHASIZES FRATERNITIES By JOE BENTLEY Davidsonian Staff Writer The IFC unanimously decided Monday night to abolish summer rush after a report favoring abolishment had been adopted at the March 22 meeting. Instead of the individual fraternity summer rush program, the IFC will be responsible for whatever fraternity information incoming freshmen receive. This information probably will be in three separate mailings, according to IFC President Fred Sackett. The March report stated that “by de-emphasizing rush and co-ordinating any fraternity activity on rush through the IFC, much of the emphasis an incoming freshman places on fraternities would be avoided.” The report said that the present feeling of rejection is due largely to the emphasis placed on fraternities before the freshman comes to Davidson and to the fact that if a student is not in a fraternity, he has no other facilities. Also passed unanimously by the IFC and pending faculty approval are proposals to set up minimum requirements for pledge programs, to formulate effective IFC scholarship programs, to institute a second rush period after Thanksgiving, and to turn the IFC into a central clearing house for service projects not only for the pledge class, but also for the entire fraternity. Seeing the IFC as moving into a new legislative, judicial, and regulatory role, rather than a primarily social one, Sackett said, “I’m especially pleased that the council is considering basic minimum requirements for pledge programs. “I feel that this will give the fraternity system a much more positive influence on campus while at the same time benefiting all members of the fraternities.” Todd Appoints Staff Members Editor-in-chief John Todd announced his staff for the 1965-66 DAVIDSONIAN as the annual past-holiday changeover occurred this week. Rufus Adair, Johnny Clark, and Michael Harrington will serve as the new associate editors. Todd named Bill Aitken and Donald Davis to assistant editorships. They are all rising seniors. Adair will be in charge of the new special features page in future alternate issues which, according to the new editor, will improve both the scope and appearance of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Adair is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and a native of Smyrna, Ga. He was DAVIDSONIAN news editor last year. Clark will assist in the special features section and in formulating editorial policy. He is from Kingstree, S. C., a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and was sports editor last year. One columnist for next year will be Harrington. He was managing editor last year, is from Winston-Salem and a member of Pi Kappa Phi. Davis and Aitken will oversee the copy desk, and assist in editorial policy. From Waynesville, Davis was copy editor during the past year. Aitken is from Kingsport, Tenn., and was assistant copy editor last year. New sports editor is Bill Briggs. A rising senior, he is from Winston-Salem, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and was assistant sports editor last year. Sam Boyte, a rising sophomore also from Winston-Salem, will be the new assistant sports editor. Professors’ Action Expected To Be Final The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Social Life and Clubs hopes to have a report prepared for submission to the faculty by its next meeting on Tuesday. The committee has been meeting regularly since it was assigned the task of developing a recommendation to be presented for faculty action. It was originally hoped that the report could be ready for the faculty meeting scheduled on April 6. Due to spring break, during which time the committee did not meet, and the large amount of information it has been necessary to study, Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the committee, asked President Martin to postpone the meeting until April 13 so that there would be additional time for the preparation of a complete proposal. McGavock stated that he “would not be at all surprised if the faculty took final action (toward resolution of the problem) at this meeting.” Teague To Discuss Religion In Chapel Barry Teague will tell what he believes about life and religion in chapel this Thursday. The practice of having a graduating senior deliver such a talk was begun three years ago. Chaplain Will Terry reported that Teague was chosen upon the suggestion of several students. Teague, the “quarterback” of the varsity basketball teamFor em, is now assistant sports edi- Managing editors are Louis Lesesne and Paul Marion, both rising juniors. Lesesne is from Kingstree, S. C., and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. He will supervise the three news pages each week. Marion, from Charlotte and a member of Kappa Sigma, will oversee the DAVIDSONIAN editorial page. Assistant Managing editor will be Bob Howard, a rising sophomore and member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Harry Carr, a rising junior from Danville, Va., is news editor. Feature Editor is Heyward Carter, a rising sophomore from Charleston, S. C., and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Irvine Welling, a rising senior from Greenville, S. C., will head up the business staff. Assisting the business manager will be Bob Cameron and Bill Watson. John Viser is the new circulation manager. 

“I am very pleased with the experience and attitude of the new staff,” stated Todd. “We are one of the few colleges in the country that publishes a regular six-page newspaper without a journalism course in the curriculum. Since all the work is done outside of class, it takes some real determination on the part of everyone from staff writers on up. I believe we've got that in the new staff," the new editor concluded.

Southern Editor Calls For ‘Noblesse Oblige’

HODDING CARTER

A “Tale of Two Cities”

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

A “Tale of Two Cities” was the subject of Pulitzer Prize-winner Hodding Carter's address in chapel today. The cities are Greenville and McComb, Miss. The tale is not a nice one. The first city, Greenville, is Carter's hometown, where he is editor of the Delta Democrat-Times. In the midst of racial strife in Mississippi, Greenville has been somewhat of a pioneer in peaceful relations in that the city council has proposed a Negro for the next vacancy, it was the first town in Mississippi with Negro policemen, and it had no violence and no arrests during last year’s “long, hot summer” and it was the only town in the deep South whose police chief and police force was praised by the NAACP for “fairness and lack of brutality.”

In the same state lies McComb, a somewhat smaller town with a much smaller Negro population. Carter described McComb as the “center of violence and unrest bombings" last summer, which became a “place of terror,” having “more burnings, bombings and beatings than any town in Mississippi, although there were no murders.” McComb was also the scene of the “running out-of-town" by almost complete ostracism of a well-liked family whose daughter was the current Miss Mississippi. The “crime” which forced this couple to leave the state was that they talked to two civil rights advisers (both white), at the request of their rector, in an effort to try to bring the violence in Mississippi to an end. They were described by Carter not as radicals, out of place in Mississippi society, but as “Mississippi moderates and religious young people.”

The question which Carter presented to his audience was “What is the difference between a Greenville and a McComb?” Some have said that it is the newspaper, but Carter denies this saying only that he and his paper have helped the situation. The answer according to Carter is the kind of leadership present in a town willing to express itself. It is a problem of noblesse oblige versus laissez-faire. The Greenville leadership is under the noblesse oblige tradition in that it has “conservative men devoted to the community, men of education who are at home anywhere and who are determined to keep a good town good." It is this attitude which was missing in McComb, the editor stated, and without this attitude no newspaper can make headway against prejudice and corruption.

Carter summed up his presentation by stating that “What I'm plugging is an awareness, which has become ‘corny’, to community responsibility. It is not corny to say that I love my town and state.” The final plea for civic and national leadership was embodied in a quote from an old friend of Carter's who thirty years ago persuaded him to settle in Greenville: “Neither you nor I can do anything on the grand scale, but we can try to live as men of good will in Greenville and do what we can do to make a good town better because it is the sum total of towns like Greenville that makes a nation better and the way we want it to be.”

The past three years, has received numerous honors in basketball, including honorable mention All-Southern Conference as a junior and second team All-Southern this year. He is a member of the D Club, Business-Economics Association, Scabbard and Blade, and Sigma Chi. Also, he is listed in Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities.

YRC Picks New Slate Of Officers

Wednesday night the Davidson College Young Republican Club met and elected a new slate of officers and a slate of delegates to the state convention in Winston-Salem, May 7, 8, and 9. This meeting was unusually quiet and routine, the only irregularity occurring during the counting of the votes for chairman of the club, during which eight more votes were noted than there were, according to the roll, members present. A second voting was found to be in order.

Elected officers of the club for the new year are as follows: Harry McMullan, chairman; Heyward Carter, vice-chairman; Sam Bradley, corresponding secretary; Don McKinnon, recording secretary; Barry Bishop, treasurer. Bradley and Bishop were elected by acclamation. Delegates to the state convention are: John Futch, Steve Sands, Harry McMullan, Heyward Carter and Sam Bradley. Joe Obenshain and Roland Eidson are first and second alternate delegates, respectively.

A resolution stating that the Davidson College Young Republican Club is in “general agreement” with the resolution of the North Carolina College Council passed October 1, 1964, supporting the fraternity system, was adopted by a 20-16 vote. A final resolution expressing appreciation of time and energy spent on club duties by the retiring group of officers, and a vote of gratitude to them for their fine work during the past year was passed by acclamation.

The members of the committee, in addition to McGavock, are: Dr. C. G. Davidson, Dr. R. B. Jackson, Dr. S. D. Maloney, Dr. George Labban, Dr. T. F. Clark, C. S. Smith and Rev. W. H. Terry along with Dean R. C. Burts, Assistant Dean R. G. Jones and Fred Sackett as non-voting members. The committee has agreed to remain silent until it can come forth with a single, unified report. Most of the work done by the committee has consisted of analyzing the three reports that evolved from the Fraternity Evaluation Committee and student and alumni statements. McGavock emphasized that the committee was concerned with “the basic philosophy behind each of the reports” and that thus far the study of the three reports in light of their motives has been the basis for most of the discussion in the committee’s meetings.

McGavock spoke favorably of both student and alumni response to the situation and said that he felt “all points of view have been ably presented” and that “the trend certainly has not been one-sided.” Some 26 students spoke to the committee and additional briefs and letters were read. “Tom Poore, head of house management at Amherst (equivalent to IFC president), went before the committee for extensive questioning since his college is involved in a similar controversy. Alumni reaction to the question of fraternities on Davidson's campus was slow, at first but has since picked up and been very helpful. McGavock stated that the predominant feeling was in favor of maintaining the status quo out of fear of destroying a “good thing.” But he continued by saying that there has also been much support for a complete revision of the system.

The student council poll of the student body on the situation was tabulated, and the results were mimeographed and distributed, along with a copy of the questionnaire, to each member of the committee. This was done so that each person would have the various student opinions in his possession and be able to analyze them completely. The faculty committee is now in the process of separating and studying all of the information at hand. It is taking all of the pertinent facts and weighing them against each other. The result will be a report for the faculty to act upon as soon as possible.

Student Store Sets Doubleday Exhibit

Next Monday and Tuesday, April 12 and 13, the Student Store will sponsor a Faculty Book Exhibit in conjunction with Doubleday publishers. Featured will be Doubleday’s Anchor and Dolphin paperback books. This book fair is presented by the publisher in hopes that some of the books will be adopted by the various departments as required reading. In order to encourage the reading of the books, each professor will be given a paperback book of his choice. Approximately 630 books will be on exhibit, most of which will be concerned with philosophy, religion, and the humanities. There is a possibility that these books will be offered to students at slightly reduced rates after the exhibit is over.