~ BARRY TEAGUE . DAVIDSON HAS FASHION REPRESENTATIVE (See Page Three) VOL. LIV.

Annual Tournament Fever Strikes Campus
By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The blue Volkswagen circled the campus in the familiar February drizzle; inside, Dave Powell—his face half hidden by a portable speaker—announced the imminent departure of Davidson’s greatest athletic team ever for the Southern Conference Tournament. That was Wednesday afternoon. Little more than a day later the ’Cats held an 86-73 first-round win over VMI, West Virginia stood in the wings—looking as ominous as Coach George King and 6-8 sharpshooter, Bob Camp could manage by word and act. Even more menacing, VPI had emerged from the first round with an impressive romp over the Richmond Spiders.

PARA, See Details on Pages 4&5

But Wednesday afternoon, those preliminary questions went unanswered. At the corner of Main and Concord a pep rally of sorts had been planned to convene under the year-old banner announcing Davidson's participation in the tournament.

Committee Considers Suggested Changes
By WALT DRAKE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Several proposals calling for changes in the fraternity system have been submitted to the Student Council Fraternity Evaluation Committee by interested parties and have been receiving the consideration of the committee. No rush being held by any fraternity in 1965 and sophomore rush being initiated in 1966 are basic tenets of one of those proposals. However, eating clubs could be formed which would conform to such regulations as membership requiring approval of not more than one-half of the members, no discrimination as to race and religion, and a 70-member quota. Also, eating clubs could consider members of other clubs who wished to change membership at the beginning of each semester. Lingle Manor would remain in existence with the addition of boarding facilities and there would thus be offered “an open membership eating club for those not in the majority-membership eating clubs or the fraternities.” A college social council would be established to regulate all social activities, and the IFC would be abolished. Freshmen having a 1.5 average or better would be allowed to keep cars on campus after Thanksgiving. Rush week would be held on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday of the first week of each semester.

ALTERNATE PROPOSAL

A second proposal being analyzed by the committee would eliminate formal rush week and institute sophomore rush. All freshmen would eat in the college union for one year. No later than Fall, 1966, an eating club would be established with facilities fully comparable to those of fraternities. Each student would be charged a social fee which would be allotted to a campus-wide social committee and the college union. Freshman class activities would be promoted. No discrimination by fraternities on the basis of race or religion would be tolerated. Each fraternity would be required to sign a nondiscrimination agreement each year and would be required to submit to the college a written agreement from national fraternities that they will not reject a chapter's nominees on the basis of race or religion. Fraternities not conforming to those rules would be abolished. Clubs could be formed with membership by random assignment or some system allowing choice on the part of the student. Membership quotas would be employed.

FROSH OUT

A third proposal cites the recreation, changes “in accord with the Christian, humane, and educational aspirations of Davidson College.” Therefore, it would propose that there be no formal relationship between freshmen and upper-class social organizations. A social program for the freshmen would be planned by the Freshman Council, with athletic competition organized around dormitories. An administrative staff member would be employed by the college to help the freshmen adjust to college life and pursuits. Clubs would replace the social fraternities and occupy the fraternity houses. The recreation, social life, and intramural competition would be organized around the clubs. A Social Council would plan all campus-wide social events, and all students would contribute to the budget of the Council through a social fee assessed by the College. Under this plan fraternities could continue, but membership would be limited to juniors and seniors. All Davidson students would have to be officially eligible for consideration.

The chilling wind blew through the holes cut in the banner; by the appointed hour, half-a-dozen people stood under Cashion’s awning trying unsuccessfully to look nonchalant. Then came Shaw Smith and Sterling Martin, the latter holding an umbrella between the two. Various community personalities came to mingle among the students, whose number gradually reached about 50. Some memories must have gone back a year to a similar send-off in similar weather, to a first-round victory over The Citadel, to the second-round game with VMI that concluded with Barry Teague sprawling on the court and the 'Cats on the short end of an 82-81 score. “Everyone spread out and look big,” shouted cheerleader Ken Essex—who looked wet. President D. Grier Martin, standing silently among the students, smiled. A small group of Richardson Scholars stood with objective curiosity on the opposite corner of Main. Comments circulated on the team’s reaction to going in a day early. There would be no Thursday morning classes for the ’Cats this year—nothing to take their thoughts from their first-round opponent, VMI, and the proven Keydet squad. Fred Hetzel drove down Concord in his grey Chevy, slowed at the corner and turned right to park for a moment. Other cars followed and remained on Concord. Ken Essex implored a “few words from Fred” and a chant of “words, words, words...” went up from the damp audience. Hetzel responded by crossing the street to take the ever-present portable speaker in hand. Fred allowed that the team wanted this one bad and forwarded the hope of the team to have the title in hand on returning to campus. Driesell followed Hetzel and noted that he could add little to Fred’s remarks. The team departed, somewhat ungloriously, as Essex droned damply, “... Give me a D...!”

Tonight at 7:30 the spectacle begun on Concord continues as the ‘Cats face West Virginia again under the familiar lights of the Charlotte Coliseum. Taking nothing—not even 23 game winning streaks—for granted, the Mountaineers promise a show and possibly a tragedy for the wary ’Cats.

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1965

DICK SNYDER
FROSH FINISH FABULOUS SEASON (See Page Four)
NUMBER EIGHTEEN

Fraternity Committee Plans Interim Report For March 1
Phi Beta Kappa Elects
Completed Document Expected Shortly

The Fraternity Evaluation Committee will report Monday on their work thus far, according to Will Jackson, committee chairman. “This report will be brief and preliminary and will only touch on the committee's work. It will probably not contain any solutions or recommendations,” Jackson explained. The complete report of the committee, which has been spending three two-hour sessions a week for the past four weeks, probably will be issued a short while later. Bob Young, assistant director of admissions and a committee member, said, “The committee is fast approaching a voting stage.” Young emphasized that the final report would have to be a complete, written document, well implemented to deal with the many parts of the situation. Jackson stated that the fraternity problem at Davidson has been discussed during the last 15 meetings of the committee and that numerous proposals have been submitted and discussed. The committee is now fast approaching a voting stage. Some of these proposals are on display in the lobby of the College Union.

NC Senate Approves ABC Vote

North Carolina’s Senate took final action Wednesday on a bill allowing the town of Mooresville to hold a retail liquor store election. The bill, introduced in the House by Rep. Robert A. Collier Jr. of Iredell County, was amended and passed by that chamber on Friday. It provides that the Mooresville Board of Commissioners may order a special election on the liquor store proposition, and that an election mustbe held if 15 per cent of the town’s qualified voters petition for the referendum. If a special election is called, and the measure passes, the establishment of a liquor store would represent a saving of time and effort on the part of North Mecklenburg residents and provide a source of revenue for the town of Mooresville. As amended, the bill states that 12.5 per cent of the profits will be used for county schools, 23 per cent for recreation, and 27.5 per cent for town schools.

Rick Von Unwerth, IFC President and committee member, commented on the social situation at Davidson. "The problem is three-fold. First, there is the vaunted rejection of those outside the system; secondly, a social dichotomy exists on campus, with social facilities available to some and denied to others by virtue of the fact that they are outside of the social system; and thirdly, there is the insidious problem facing boys accepted by the system who allow it to dictate their attitude towards a Davidson education, the student body, and the goals of the college. These three, I believe, are inextricably interwoven and are part and parcel of the present fraternity situation."

The committee’s decision, in Von Unwerth's opinion, is "whether to direct efforts toward ameliorating the situation or to eliminating the problem." Members of the committee have claimed that the Davidson system is a caste system, and the question arises whether this situation is healthy or permissible. Records indicate that a large proportion of the students who drop out of Davidson are independents or those outside the social system. "It is hard to deny that the campus is divided by formal lines of demarcation into 'in' and 'out' group relationships, however vague the line may be," said Von Unwerth in speaking of the social situation. "Most men in fraternities," he continued, "realize a great deal of good in belonging to a fraternity group and that the type of association is beneficial. It is also apparent that there are a good many disadvantages to those both inside and outside the system as well as to the college. The problem then is whether the social system can realize its potential for good without falling into an unhealthy caste-type situation."

Von Unwerth stated, "Some members of the committee feel that with some modifications in the current system a healthy condition could exist. Others feel that the individual fraternity is considerably detrimental, and that the very existence of fraternities and the fraternity system is the basis of the problem without the elimination of the fraternity system as we know it now."

WILL JACKSON Heads Evaluation Group

Admission OK’s 214 Applicants

Letters of acceptance were sent on Feb. 20 to 214 applicants for admission to the class of 1969. Including early admission applicants, 283 students of the roughly 400 applicants who will eventually be accepted have received notification of admission. Because of the deadline (Feb. 15), the 1400 applicants received to date compare to the 1128 received last year by March 30, a 15 percent increase. Asked to compare the quality of this year's and last year’s applicants, Assistant Director of Admissions Robert C. Young said, "It is difficult, in fact probably useless, to try to make comparisons between the two groups at this stage in the game. But it is obvious to us that we're going to have to turn down a very large number of qualified applicants. It kills you to have to turn down such boys, but there simply isn't room for everyone we would like to accept."

By FRANK FLEMING Davidsonian Staff Writer

Nine To Membership

North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson has elected seven seniors and two juniors to be inducted for the spring term. The following were elected on Feb. 17: Ronnie Ayers, Bob Chumbley, Roger David, Joe Haseman, Clark Morrell, Gary Nedwed, Russ Trimble, Billy Clark, and Paul Simpson. Election to Phi Beta Kappa represents the highest recognition of scholarship excellence that an undergraduate can achieve. Membership is limited to students having at least a B-plus average and cannot exceed more than eight per cent of the Junior Class nor twelve and one-half per cent of the Senior Class. According to Dr. Malcolm Lester, chapter secretary, the formal initiation will be held April 15. The name of the guest speaker and other details will be announced later.

Ronnie Ayers, a history major from Roanoke, Va., is a member of Sigma Chi where he serves as boarding house manager. Besides being a Dana Scholar, Ayers is past president of Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholastic fraternity. A member of the Male Chorus, he is also a Distinguished Military Student.

Bob Chumbley spent his junior year in France as part of his major in French. A native of Covington, Va., he belongs to the Eumenean Literary fraternity and Le Cercle Francais. Also a Dana Scholar, Chumbley has participated in the Wind Ensemble and Vagabonds.

Roger David, a pre-med from Winston-Salem, belongs to Alpha Tau Omega, Phi Eta Sigma, and Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. Having served on both THE DAVIDSONIAN and Quips and Cranks staffs, he was also the editor of the Wildcat Handbook. He is one of the five new members who hold Dana Scholarships.

Joe Haseman, Lakeland, Fla., is a mathematics major with a side interest in bridge and chess. A member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, he plays in the Wildcat Band and Wind Ensemble. He holds an honorary Curtis B. Johnson Scholarship.

Clark Morrell, from Bethesda, Md., is majoring in mathematics. The holder of a McConnell Scholarship, he plans a career in insurance. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and a past member of the freshman golf team.

Gary Nedwed, Port Washington, N.Y., an economics major, is secretary of the Project of the Americas (PRAM). He belongs to Sigma Chi, Phi Eta Sigma, and the Spanish Club. He is president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He holds both a Dana and Guttman scholarship.

Russ Trimble, the only married student to be elected this year, is a chemistry major from Kingsport, Tenn. He is secretary of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity. He also belongs to Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Eta Sigma, in addition to having a Dana Scholarship.

Billy Clark, a junior from Charlotte, holds a National Merit Scholarship and McConnell Scholarship for his pre-med study. Vice-president of the Conservative Club and a member of the Student Council, he belongs to Kappa Sigma and Phi Eta Sigma. He also earned the awards for outstanding MS 1 cadet and outstanding MS II cadet.

Paul Simpson, of Nashville, Tenn., has a double major in psychology and pre-med. Besides being IFC representative from Beta Theta Pi, he is a member of APO service fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, and the College Union Board in charge of Open-End discussions. He was on the Freshman Council and won the Freshman Scholastic Award.