PAGE SIX
The DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1965

NEW FORMAT, NEW IMAGE
Miscellany Ready Soon

The Miscellany, Davidson's new literary magazine, will be published for the first time between Homecoming and Thanksgiving. The magazine will replace the old Scripts 'n Pranks, and according to Editor Charles Vick, will have a new format and a new image. The fall issue will be limited to either 48 or 64 pages. Among numerous entries will be a short story by Samuel P. Adinaryan, visiting Indian professor of psychology last year; poetry by professors; reviews of two John Cheever novels; and poems and color paintings by Herb Jackson, Davidson junior abroad in Germany. In place of the slick paper of previous years, the magazine will have six by nine-inch book paper enclosed in a standard cover—a change Vick hopes will produce “a certain continuity and respectability.”

Miscellany, the name of the journal of the Elizabethan Period, is used by Carleton College as the title of its magazine. By changing the name, Vick hopes to end the persistent confusion with the yearbook, Quips and Cranks. “We're trying to produce something that the students won't read and then throw away,” said Vick, “but something that they will save and want to send to their parents. We want the Miscellany to become a good vehicle for publication. It would be good for the student body.”

Twenty freshmen have signed up for staff positions, joining 14 upperclassmen and an editorial board.

COW WERSE-PROFESSOR SPEAKS TO CONSERVATIVES
“Whither Viet Nam?”

Dr. James W. Wiggins, right, associate dean and professor of sociology at Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., spoke to The Conservative Club in the Blue Room Tuesday night on “Whither Viet Nam?” Dr. Wiggins has written several instructional manuals for the Army. At left is Dr. J. G. Martin, the club’s advisor. (Staff Photo by Purvis)

Secor Tells Of Russian Tour
By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson's own ambassador to the Kremlin, Dr. Philip B. Secor, returned to give a full report on his recent trip to Russia to a large audience at Open End Wednesday night. After an inaudible introduction by Paul Simpson, Secor began with a series of excellent slides. Secor explained that he went as a member of a tour organized by the Cultural Exchange Corp. This organization attempts to “make efficacious the cultural exchange agreement we have with the USSR on a broader basis than the exchange of artists, scientists and so on.” The group comprised people of various walks of life and political persuasions. According to Secor, a similar Russian group may come to the United States in the future.

Our hero spent most of his time in Moscow and Leningrad. In Moscow, he was impressed by the apartment buildings—“The most striking single impression I took away from Moscow was of apartment houses”; the abundance of consumer goods—“The automobile is the king item of consumer goods, not in considerable abundance”; and the women—“These were good-looking women.” He was distinctly not impressed by the educational system because of the very limited freedom of expression and thought that it allows, “I found nothing in Soviet education that we would want to emulate.” Secor mentioned that young people in the Soviet Union very much resent this highly regulated society and they make no secret of their feelings. They were “almost rebellious people. They clearly expressed a fear of being watched, and they were.”

Intrepid explorer that he is, Secor “got to see things Americans don't see” simply by walking in and explaining his situation. Officials were generally quite helpful. One of the forbidden places was the Lenin Library where he got a library card which, he said, “looks just like a Communist Party membership card, a status symbol which I would like very much to have.” Secor touched on a wide variety of additional subjects and presented an unusual and fascinating picture of the USSR. This Open End was one of the longest in living memory, extending well past midnight, and the audience, which filled the Morrison Room at first, dwindled somewhat. For those who could afford the time, however, it was an evening well invested.

Martin Defends Link Of College, Church
By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Since the founding of Davidson College, the ties of the College to the church have been strong. And they will continue to be so,” began President D. Grier Martin as he addressed the student body Tuesday in chapel. And so the students of Davidson entered the new year with a reminder of the “commitment of the College to the historic Christian faith.” President Martin stressed the purpose of the quest for truth and adventures of the mind in a Christian institution. “The College,” he pointed out, “is a worshipping community.”

Speaking in the wake of a growing chorus criticizing the policy of required chapel and vespers, begun in intensity last year and continued this fall, Martin outlined several “salient points” regarding the situation. “Much of the financial support of this institution can be traced to the fact that many of our benefactors make their gifts to us because of the church, namely, the Duke, Reynolds, and Richardson Foundations.”

He continued, “The church never has and never will bind or restrict Davidson in its activities and academics.” Nevertheless, he added, we are committed to the pursuit of truth in the conviction that Jesus Christ is Lord.

President Martin defined the position of Davidson by quoting illustrations from the Danforth Report on religiously connected colleges. “The first type of institution is classified as the Defender of the Faith, a college in conflict with secular culture.” The Defender, he continued, is not unlike a military college in its strict discipline.

ROTC Named

Jim Stokes will serve as ROTC Brigade Commander for the first semester of the coming year. Rufus Adair will assist him as Executive Officer. Staff members will include Jimmy McNab as Adjutant, Bob Bryan as Intelligence Officer, Ernie Larkin as Operations Officer, Stewart Cox as Supply Officer, and Steve Graham as Sergeant Major.

Other officers include: Jamie Bryant as First Battalion Commanding Officer, with Danny Boone assisting as Executive Officer. A Company will be commanded by Hoyle Rymer with Basil Hicks serving as Executive Officer. Irvine Welling will command B Company with Jim Curl as Executive Officer. C Company will be commanded by Tommy Hunter assisted by John Crawford as Executive Officer.

Commanding Officer for Second Battalion is Richard Little. Bill Briggs will aid him as Executive Officer. D Company will be commanded by Randy McKnight with J. L. Allison as Executive Officer. Robert Earle will be Company Commander of E Company and Jim Hyder will be his Executive Officer. F Company will be commanded by Steve Rostan and Craig Kugel will be Executive Officer. Mark Waldon and Bill Vermilye will serve as Sergeant Majors for First and Second Battalions, respectively.

The Honor Guard will be commanded by Bill Alexander and the ROTC Band is under the direction of Company Commander Phil Beidler.

Docherty Attacks Lack Of Church Involvement

“The names of Washington and Lincoln have been replaced by those of Martin Luther King and James Farmer,” asserted Dr. George M. Docherty in his vesper address Sunday night. “The Church in a Day of Revolution,” his controversial sermon dealt with the role of the church in the present civil rights movement.

In beginning his address, Rev. Docherty stated that in the Davidson student body there are three separate groups, liberal art majors who are pre-ministerial and primarily Southern Presbyterians; “pre-professional” who will someday be lay-leaders in the church; and “non-churchmen.”and it gives the student little opportunity to learn. The second category contains the Non-Affirming colleges, which have no compulsory religious life. "It is generally secular and leaves religion largely uncultivated." "The third type is the Free Christian college," said Martin. "This college recognizes that religion and worship are important to the college, and includes in its curriculum religion courses rigorous and stimulating. I like to think that Davidson is of this type." who are forced to attend vespers. "For all three groups," Docherty claimed, "it is a tremendous day in which to live for this is a day in which both churchmen and non-churchmen are being driven by events to find the ancient church." It is essential to know what the church means if it is to take an active role in the world today. In speaking of the current wave of social change, Rev. Docherty referred to the three revolutions this country has seen. The first revolution, against Great Britain, was typified by the Declaration of Independence which stated the struggle to be one for political, not social, principles. This "justice" came in the form of the second revolution—the Civil War. This war was one of social causes—"If men are created equal, what place has the slave?"—but it failed to really provide the Negro with a place of respect and social freedom in society. The third and current revolution, in the opinion of Rev. Docherty, began not at Concord or Ft. Sumter, but in Nashville in 1955 "by a little Negro lady named Mama Rose Parks who was too tired to step to the back of the bus."

Oct. 9
3 p.m. Water Ski Show—Lake Campus
5 p.m. Barbeque Buffet—Lake Campus
7:30-11:30 p.m. Square Dance and Combo Dance—Campus

Oct. 16
2 p.m. Football—William and Mary
5 p.m. After-Game Buffet
7:30-11:30 p.m. Combo Party—The Embers

Oct. 22-23 Homecoming
Friday
8 p.m. Artists Series
11 p.m.-3 a.m. Combo Party—The Embers
3:30 a.m. Early Morning Breakfast

Saturday
7:30 p.m. Concert—The Platters, Modern Folk Quartet
11 p.m.-3 a.m. Combo Party—The Monzas

DAO Campus revolution! Slacks that never need ironing—never! Galey and Lord permanent press fabrics of polyester and cotton. Stay neat—however washed! Galey & Lord, 1407 Broadway, N.Y. 18. A Division of Burlington Industries.

A storekeeper had 17 TOT Staplers. All but 3 were sold. How many did he have left?

This is the Swingline Tot Stapler 98¢ (including 1000 staples)
Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.49
No bigger than a pack of gum—but packs the punch of a big deal! Refills available everywhere. Unconditionally guaranteed. Made in U.S.A. Get it at any stationery, variety, or book store!

Swingline, INC. Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Beaty Recovering From Heart Attack
Ernest A. Beaty, W. R. Grey Professor of Latin and German, is resting satisfactorily at Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte following a serious heart attack last month. The long-time member of the college faculty has been taken out of the intensive care section of the hospital, but remains in a serious condition. Professor Beaty was stricken while talking with a fellow faculty member in the alumni office during the last session of summer school. He had taught the first two sessions this summer.

German Staff Gets Additional Member
John Gilbert Crocker has been added to the Davidson faculty as instructor in German. Crocker received the B.S. degree from the University of Colorado and his M.S. degree from the University of Michigan. He came to Davidson directly from Germany where he received his M.A. degree in German from Middlebury College (Vermont) in its graduate program at Mainz.

Leadership School Held Here
Davidson's chapter of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity hosted its national leadership school here during August. Speakers included North Carolina Gov. Dan Moore, several alumni and national office staff members, and a founder of the fraternity. The Pi Kapps are one of the developers of this type of school which is conducted biennially for training its officers in chapter operations. The week opened with a reception at the fraternity’s national office which has recently been moved to Charlotte. Later that evening President D. G. Martin welcomed the delegates to Davidson in an assembly in Hodson Hall. A week of classes followed with sessions scheduled from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. The course covered chapter operations and problems from bottom to top: finances, ritual, rush, pledge education, chapter retreats, scholarship, and alumni relations. Most of the classes were given by alumni brothers or the staff of the national office. Among its guests, the Pi Kapp school had Simon Fogarty, the fraternity’s only living founder. Davidson’s Epsilon Chapter initiated Fogarty's son into Pi Kappa Phi. On the last day, the Epsilon Chapter tied for third place as best chapter in the fraternity. A banquet closed out the week's activity. Keynote speaker Gov. Moore, who is a member of Pi Kappa Phi from the chapter at Chapel Hill, spoke on the role of college fraternities in education.

Grants Are Available For Graduate Study
Applications are now available from Dr. J. T. Embry in his office, 206 Chambers, for the 1966-67 United States government graduate grants for academic study or research abroad and professional training in creative or performing arts. Although the deadline for filing applications is Oct. 30, and actual competition does not begin until May 1, Dr. Embry requests that all interested students contact him before the end of September. The competition is conducted by the Institute of International Education, which awards the scholarships provided by the Fulbright-Hays Act as part of the educational and cultural exchange program of the Department of State. Candidates who wish to apply for an award must be U.S. citizens at the time of application, have a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent by the beginning of the grant, and be proficient in the language of the host country. Selections will be made on the basis of academic and/or professional record, the feasibility of the applicant’s proposed study plans, and personal qualifications. Preference is given to candidates who have not had prior opportunities for extended study or research abroad and who are under the age of 35. More than 800 American graduates will have the opportunity to study in one of 55 countries under one of the following plans:
1) A full award will provide a grantee with tuition, maintenance, round-trip transportation, health and accident insurance, and an incidental allowance.
2) Joint U.S. and foreign government grants will provide tuition with full or partial maintenance from the foreign government plus travel expenses from the U.S. government.
3) Travel-only grants will supplement maintenance and tuition scholarships given to American students by universities, private donors, and foreign governments.

WATCH OUT FOR THE OTHER GUY
Drive Defensively! Just being in the right isn't enough. Nearly half the drivers in fatal collisions are in the right. Drive defensively—as if your life depended on it. (It does.)
Published to save lives in cooperation with The Advertising Council and the National Safety Council.

DISCOUNT PRICES... here at DAVIDSON
Choose From 400 RECORDS Selected For The College Market
THE STUDENT STORE