Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Question

After drifting in the doldrums for three months, the fraternity question is again demanding the attention of the Davidson community. Due by March 1 is the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, a report which is almost sure to recommend changes in the present system. The committee, instituted in December by Student Council, has met frequently and at length. Nevertheless, attendance of members has been commendably regular at the sessions where a spectrum of ideas—ranging from maintaining the status quo to abolishing fraternities—has been tossed around the conference table.

Whatever the committee recommends will be the product of serious thought and intensive examination over an extended period of time. That there will be objections to the report is inevitable: there are too many divergent views for any sane person to anticipate a consensus. Rather we can hope for a positive, constructive attitude from those who take issue with the report. To merely attack will not be sufficient; the antagonists must be prepared to suggest acceptable alternatives.

That the fraternities fulfill a necessary function as the centers of social organization for a large percentage of the student body is obvious. But biting objections to the organizations of the Davidson fraternity system have been put forth. And the objections have yet to be met with satisfactory answers. To merely destroy fraternities, however, would propagate—not curb—the problems of social life for the Davidson student. That is, unless a suitable substitute to the fraternity system can be found.

Will modification of the present arrangement—such as initiating sophomore rush—be the answer? Or will the problems best be answered by more sweeping changes, perhaps even in the basic organization of social life? At first glance these appear to be the essential questions; that they are of great import cannot be denied. But even more basic is an intensive look at the college itself. What is the goal of Davidson College? And does the present social organization promote—or inhibit—this goal? This is the question which must first be answered. Then—and only then—can we examine the current system and proposed changes in the proper perspective.

Council Counsel

Apparently they were mostly concerned with their own Lilliputian political positions. But such a conclusion might be unfair. Perhaps they envision Davidson as that sleepy little Southern college described by a modern-day Romantic on Sports Illustrated’s glossy pages last year, vigorous political campaigns might ruffle the leaves on those neatly trimmed shrubberies. Indeed, there might even be a poster on the ivy-covered, old-brick walls.

The reason is unimportant; the action is not. Student Council has expressed its willingness to be satisfied with a voting turnout which in all probability will not surpass 65 percent. Many schools would be delighted with such a high turnout. But must we be satisfied and complacent while at least one out of every three students fails to cast the ballot which is rightfully his? This, in effect, is the attitude conveyed by the action—or, more properly, inaction—of Council Monday night.

Representative Fred Sackett, who has carefully studied the elections procedure at Davidson, presented a number of proposals at the group’s meeting Monday night, proposals aimed at improving the Davidson elections. The representatives rejected a majority of the proposals. Sackett has been criticized for the means he utilized in drafting the proposals and in presenting them to Council. But these criticisms are certainly not valid objections to the proposals themselves. The suggested changes merit reconsideration. Some students fear unruly campaigns. Far more real to us is the possibility of overly sedate elections.

Still posted in the Union, are minutes of Council’s meeting on December 9. Has the fact that these have not been replaced by more up-to-date minutes indicate that Council has done nothing since two-and-a-half months ago?

We have always had the impression that sessions of Student Council were intended to be open meetings. Moreover, we have understood that meetings were scheduled for 7 p.m. on Mondays. This was certainly true last Monday—even the Union calendar said the meeting would be on Feb. 15 at 7 p.m. in the Blue Room. But the meeting did not take place, at least not then. The “public” meeting was quietly moved to 10 p.m. without any public notice.

Too Vindictive

In newly independent countries of Africa, where there is no tradition of nationhood, the “father” of independence easily becomes the embodiment of sovereignty. Any threat to his person or position after independence can therefore seem treacherous or attempted subversion of the state. This, of course, explains why newly independent countries bequeathed a constitution providing for parliamentary opposition often lose little time in reorganizing themselves into one-party states. This should be remembered and understood whenever there is an urge in the West to criticize such leaders as President Nkrumah of Ghana.

But even having recalled such basic facts about political development in Africa, it is still painful and distressing to see the outcome of the four-month political trial which ended in Ghana this week with five Ghanaians getting capital sentences. Dr. Nkrumah is a civilized man. Since there is no appeal from the court’s decision, men of goodwill everywhere must hope that he will intervene at least to prevent what would be political executions. The Ghanaian President seems to have been determined to secure the conviction of the five men—two of whom were former Cabinet Ministers—regardless of normal court procedures. They had all stood trial in Ghana in 1963, before the Chief Justice, Sir Arku Korsah. Two were then found guilty and given capital sentences. The other three (including the two former Cabinet Ministers) were acquitted. Dr. Nkrumah thereupon dismissed the Chief Justice, declared the trial before the latter null and void, and ordered a retrial. Now have come the capital sentences for all five.

In fairness to the new Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Sargode-Adoo, who presided over the retrial, it should be said that once the jury had found the five accused guilty of the charges brought against them, he had no alternative to passing capital sentences. Such is the law. Ghana has the honor of being the harbinger of independence for black Africa—at least for that part of it under colonial rule at the end of World War II. Kwame Nkrumah’s name will ever be associated with Ghana’s role in Africa during the past decade. He should remember that compassion enhances a reputation much more lastingly than can savage vindictiveness.

—The Christian Science Monitor

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

Asst. Managing Editor
John Bailey

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Heyward Carter

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Bri

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lake

Asst. Circulation Manager
John Viser

Contributors this week:
Ron Snow, Tim Rothermel, Bob Holladay, Mike Bates, Frank Fleming, Roger David, Jack Augustus, Jim Morawetz, Walt Drake, Joe Ford, Ross Cornwell, Jamie Bryant, Billy Farr, Ed Maxwell, Bob Howard, Huck Berry, Dick Spencer, Louis Lesesne, Sam Boyte, Neville Patterson, Paul Marion, Tom Cook, Steve Couch, Harry Carr, Mike Carroll, Heyward Carter, Mike Vodak.

Copy Editor
Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors
Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel
Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

KELTON URGES REPEAL

Profs Lead Attack Against ‘Speaker-Ban’ Law

All North Carolinians, with few exceptions, agree to prevent the spread of Communist ideology; and they want to promote democracy and preserve our system of higher education. The Speaker-Ban Law should be examined to determine whether it helps or hinders the achievement of these goals.

By JOHN D. KELTON
Professor of Psychology

How does this law help higher education in North Carolina? I see no way, nor have I heard it defended for this reason. How does this law hurt higher education in North Carolina? There are several obvious effects: (1) It indicates and fosters a lack of confidence in educators and administrators of our colleges and universities. (2) It makes North Carolina's colleges and universities unattractive to many top-flite teachers and researchers who might otherwise accept employment in North Carolina. (3) It reduces the number of

Soph Urges Great Change: ‘Abolish Dance Weekends’

Dear Editor:

It has been pointed out repeatedly in most of the Davidson publications that the “dance weekends” are times of wanton abandonment of responsibility and morality. One could scarcely deny that such an accusation applies to the majority of Davidson “gentlemen.” How can a Christian college with avowed Christian instructors allow such behavior to be associated with its good name?

OUTLET NEEDED

Now there is an obvious need for an outlet of the tensions and frustrations which confound the student of the most demanding school in the South, namely Davidson. The Davidson student gets sick and tired of studying and of wandering about this isolated campus. Until the present, probably the main source of getting rid of academic stagnation has been the dance weekends with their revelry and drunkenness. But now it is time to re-evaluate our means of blowing off steam just as athletics, fraternities, etc. are being scrutinized. The society in which the Davidson gentleman lives is far fromthe ideal of freedom and equality, and to the contrary is afflicted with many cancerous social problems. One of the chief sores is the treatment which the American Negro receives in regard to his legal rights. Being both Christians and citizens of this nation, the students of Davidson have an unquestionable responsibility to help solve these problems, especially that of the Negroes in Davidson's own part of the country.

A PROPOSAL

I have a proposal to solve both problems. A racial change should be brought about in which “dance weekends” would be abolished and replaced with “demonstration weekends.” Under this system, the Davidson gentleman could remain a model of responsible Christianity instead of periodically losing all restraint and falling headlong into sin and corruption. However, his needs to release his tensions and escape the confines of a closed academic society would be met as he fought the good fight for equality of all American Christians. Banners and signs would be much cheaper than combos and Julie London anyway.

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

‘They Are Professionals Hired To Play Basketball’

By CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The game is called basketball, and we all love it. It has carried the name of our little college to newspaper readers across the breadth of this nation. (Were it not for basketball, New York Times readers would know of our school only because of the anachronistic faculty vow.) Twice each week we students have followed our hired hardwood heroes to brightly-lit amphitheaters to watch them take apart lesser bands of hired hardwood heroes—and shout and scream—and abuse referees—and sweat when games were close—and share the glory of one of the nation’s better basketball teams. They are professionals in all but the size of the salaries they are paid to play the game.

If we see the basketball players as professionals, it is easier to understand, though not condone, the action of one when he rebuffs a hero-worshipping youngster asking for an autograph. In a recent column in the Charlotte News, John Kilgo took to task an unnamed Wildcat who harshly turned down a young fan twice during a Coliseum appearance. It is unfortunate that every athlete cannot live up to his sportswriter-concocted reputation as a nice guy. In a month, perhaps sooner, it will all be done, the good and the bad. The sports page glory will also slip swiftly away; we will once again be students at a small, southern, church-related college for men and they will edge a bit closer to the ranks of ordinary mortals. Which is as it should be at an institution whose business is education and not basketball.

* * *

We wonder whose interest Col. Outlaw had in mind when he advised seniors in the advanced ROTC program not to talk to sophomores about the advanced program unless they could speak well of it.

In the next few weeks, the sophomores enrolled in the basic program will be deciding whether to sign up for the advanced program and commit themselves to a brief career as a reserve army officer. We would think it in the best interests of both the sophomores and the army to have this decision made with all the facts available, facts that will best be drawn out from a frank discussion over the merits of the program, facts that may be undiscovered until too late if sophomores are presented with the facts only by an army that needs capable leaders. A banishing of Col. Outlaw’s rush-week attitude toward the advanced program recruiting would probably result in fewer men nearing army duty with the sinking feeling that they were unfairly trapped, and fewer poorly-motivated army officers.

Perhaps Queens and Johnson C. Smith students could be invited to join in glorious marches through nearby cities, and those who really have strong tensions could fight heartless police and their vicious dogs. On those weekends which have no Saturday classes, the IFC funds (if such still exist) could be used to charter buses and trains for freedom rides through Alabama and Mississippi. The possibilities are endless and after the race problem—disarmament—?

Julian K. Fite
Davidson College

of speakers who will come to North Carolina campuses; speakers who are not communist, but who protest this means of fighting communism by destroying democratic principles, and (4) It reduces, for the same reason as in (3), the number of learned societies which will be willing to hold their meetings on campuses in North Carolina. Other effects could be cited, but these ought to make clear the fact that this law lowers the quality of higher education in North Carolina.

NO HELP

Now, how does this law promote democratic principles and deter communism? Again, I see no way in which the law accomplishes such goals. On the surface it may appear to do so, but a closer look suggests that it really has no such effect. It adds nothing to existing laws which prevent communist teachers in North Carolina's schools. It does nothing to prevent formation of communist cells on campus. It does nothing to cope with communists who are not recognized as such; those who work “underground” and disguise their purposes. It does nothing to improve social, economic and political conditions which make communism attractive to some.

BAN “TEARS DOWN”

In fact, the law tears down democratic principles and actually aids communism in several ways: (1) It says, in effect, that communism is so appealing, so superior to democracy that our young people will be “converted” if allowed to listen to its exponents. (2) It shelters our young people and prevents their having first-hand experience with avowed communists; it leaves our young people unprepared for the day when they will meet such people in Chicago, New York, Korea, Vietnam, Paris, Rio de Janeiro or Mexico City. (3) It leaves communistic ideas unexposed to the criticism, the refutation, the pointing out of weaknesses which they typically receive at the hands of college audiences. (4) It enhances the appeal of communism; communism is made to seem attractive because it is “forbidden.” (5) It suggests that the democratic process really can't cope with communism; that we must adopt communistic tactics if we are to win, and, in the process, (6) It destroys a large part of what we are trying to protect: freedom of thought and speech.

Perhaps I have overlooked valid arguments in favor of the Speaker-ban law; perhaps there are ways in which it improves the quality of higher education in North Carolina, promotes democratic principles and deters communism. If so, I would like to know about it. In the meantime, I urge everyone who reads this to act in all honorable ways to bring about the repeal of this law.

SOUFFLE STILL FALLS FLAT

‘Carnival’ Production Uses Top Quality Ingredients

BY HANSFORD EPES
A Davidsonian Review

Jean Anouilh’s Thieves’ Carnival has been described as a “souffle”—apparently because it is light, airy, enjoyable and not particularly nourishing. Last night, in Hodson Hall, the recipe for a souffle was followed to the letter, and nearly all of the ingredients were of top quality. Costumes were striking, with the colors well combined for stage ensemble; the sets were excellent. The Drama Department even built its own furniture—narrow, to conserve space, but with the skillful illusion of more ordinary size. The music composed for the comedy made a great contribution to its atmosphere. One does wonder why the stage wagon was used, since its small size often cramped the action (to the point that the people running off stage occasionally had to pause at the edge, waiting to be stopped). The wagon’s echoing response to every footstep also tends to be most distracting.

Acting was, for the most part, very good—though a few actors gave the distinct impression of having memorized their inflections as well as their lines, without really knowing what they were saying or why. Those in major roles were, however, convincing: Jon Miller's flawless representation of senility as Lord Edgard, Ellen Winkler’s bored but regal bearing—and her mastery of British accent—as Lady Hurf, Pete Myers’ stage presence and comic skill as Hector. Sylvia Campbell started slowly as the young Juliette, but picked up markedly after intermission: and Laura Ann Stevens (Eva) certainly has a way with a scarf. Dennis Phillips, as Peterbono, had several good moments but tended to be uneven: and the Dupont-Duforts (Rawley Turner and Marvin Sparrow) allowed an old vaudeville routine—funny the first dozen or so times—to get in the way of otherwise good acting.

Sometimes, however, the recipe can be followed and the souffle can still fall flat. Very few actors really seemed to have their hearts in the whole affair. The tempo dragged, often painfully. The comedy in the situation was usually lacking: an audience that should have been consistently enjoying itself merely chuckled appreciatively from time to time at incidents, not at the comedy itself. Most of the farcical “business” was overdone; for example, Hector’s attempt, through gestures, to help Peterbono out of a tight spot, or the accidental baby-snatching routine in Act One—a successful attempt to get one extra giggle which Anouilh hadn't thought of. In short: overacting or, more properly, memorized fun cannot substitute in comedy for the real thing: well-done details cannot cover up for a lack of unity in a production. Anouilh says it well himself (via his translator): “It's only for those who have played it with zest that the comedy is a success.”

Much of the dragging, many of the faults, could be the normal hazards of the first night—but other things are not. Perhaps the next farce—The Bald Soprano—will be a different story. At any rate, there is another performance of Thieves’ Carnival on Saturday afternoon—see it for yourself. It's amusing.

The Charge Of The Light Brigade...