PAGE SIX

"You Won't Know Anything Funny... Until You're 30."

THE DAVIDSONIAN - FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1965

REYNOLDS LECTURER

Editor Examines Humor

(Staff Photos by Thel)

Independents Again To Attempt To Organize An Eating Club

Believing that an eating club can be successful and attractive at Davidson, a group of campus Independents plan to attempt
again to start one here. In this group are Andy Little, Jesse Sims, George Brown, Joe Obenshain, Bob Powell, Tommy
Ashford, and others.

The college agreed last April to build one or two houses for eating clubs if there was the demand for
them. During the last month of school last year, many of these same students tried and failed to get one
established.

"We couldn't get enough people to commit themselves for the college to go ahead and build a house," Obenshain explained.
"We had to have about 50 people, and we didn’t have that many."

Twenty-three students agreed to join if one was built, and seventeen agreed to join providing two were built.

Last year’s attempt failed because, according to Obenshain, "We were so rushed. We didn’t have time to be specific, and
people didn't want to commit themselves to anything as general as what we presented. That's one fault we're going to
correct here."

Fraternities

(Continued From Page One)

Controversy were very emphatic in noting on their questionnaires improvement in students’ work and response during the first week of
classes. There has not been, however, any evaluation of the delayed rush system as a whole. Presently, the committee is
involved in trying to collect as much pertinent information as possible about social life at Davidson so that they will
be able to make what Abbott terms "valid, thorough and just decisions" about any further changes in the fraternity situation.

Abbott also mentioned that the questionnaire to be given to the fraternities is further designed to help the fraternities decide
on their objectives at a time when they are rushing and thinking about the type of men they want to
pledge.

Other members of the committee, which meets on the second and fourth Monday each month, are Dr. S. D. Maloney,
Professor Hansford M. Epes, the Rev. Will Terry, Paul Simpson, Tom Earnhardt, John Burks, and George Kuykendall.

"We want to see if we can get enough people interested this year," he stated. These Independents planned to meet
Wednesday night with Dr. McCormac "to decide what kind of a course to take."

One of the questions facing them is whether or not to establish a plan to present to the freshmen when
rush starts on October 30. "We may possibly jump into rush at that time, or we may wait until we
get a more substantial program and organization set up," Obenshain remarked.

"But we want the freshmen to know," he particularly emphasized, "that there will be an alternative to fraternities if some
of them find the fraternities aren't exactly what they want."

Whether or not these Independents decide to offer something to the freshmen during rush, Obenshain pointed out, they are starting
much earlier than they did last year, and will have a more concrete plan to offer the students this time.
He especially mentioned that a constitution and basic program might be drawn up.

"We have a good group to work with. We might have an open meeting sometime next week," he continued, "particularly
for those who did sign up last year."

As far as he knew, Obenshain said, the college wouldn't have to reapprove its plans concerning the houses. "Anytime in
the future when we can get enough people to commit themselves, the college will go ahead and build these houses.
The college is behind us. Now we have to get the students behind us," he concluded, indicating that he felt
there is an excellent chance of doing this.

Freshmen Plan For Weekend

The Freshmen Council learned the results of its recommendations to the Interfraternity Council and made plans for Homecoming projects at
its regular Wednesday meeting.

Jim Terry, president of the IFC, informed the council that three of its four recommendations concerning rush had been approved.
Freshmen are now permitted to ride in fraternity members’ cars when hitchhiking back to campus after 11 p.m. Freshmen’s dates
may ride in fraternity members’ cars under extenuating circumstances, if the freshmen have the approval of the IFC Transportation Committee.

The fourth recommendation, about a delegation from the IFC attending a Freshman Council meeting, was fulfilled by the presence of
Jim Terry and two other IFC representatives at the meeting. Terry explained several specific rush regulations, particularly those concerning rush
parties.

For Homecoming, the five freshmen dormitory teams will compete against each other in the construction of projects. Expenses for each
project may not exceed $25.

Other business included the announcement that

Faculty

(Continued From Page One)

to the Trustees. Members of the committee are Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the board; D. R. LaFar Jr.,
vice-president of the board; and Dr. Thomas G. Thurston, who represent the Trustees; and Dr. J. G. Martin and Dr.
W. G. Workman of the faculty.

"While there was thorough discussion concerning proposed amendments to the motion of the joint committee, the faculty endorsed the proposals
of the committee as amended," Martin remarked. "The faculty discussed the proposals at length before adopting the regulations which they
considered to be best for the college," he continued.

The amendment also explicitly permits the storing of alcoholic beverages in the locked trunks of student automobiles. The "trunk rule"
was omitted from the faculty regulations due to a technicality arising from an amendment to the student body drinking rule
this spring.

Rules concerning possession and consumption within the town limits do not apply to a student while in the home of
his immediate family. This portion of the new rule directly affects 20 students—16 married students who live in the town
of Davidson and four whose families reside within the town limits.

"The students owe a vote of appreciation to the faculty for this indication of confidence in the students’ maturity and
sense of responsibility," remarked Student Body President Bill Council to THE DAVIDSONIAN. "I am confident," Council added, "that the students
will continue to be aware of their duty to conduct themselves in a manner deserving the faculty's confidence and befitting
a member of the Davidson College community."

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Bailey
Gable
McGavock
Smith, C. S.
Biss
Griffin
McMillin
Thies
Brown
Johnson
Nelson
Welsh
Crittenden
Kelton
Outlaw
White, H. E.
Crocker
Labban
Pinkerton
White, L.
Driesell
Lester
Purcell
Williams, R. F.
Fogleman
Martin, D. G.
Rogerson

By JOE SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Hollowood, editor of Punch and Reynolds Lecturer, spoke in chapel Tuesday on the history of his magazine and on
the differences between British and American humor.

During the coffee hour which followed in the Union, Hollowood answered questions on political and social problems in Great Britain.

According to Hollowood, English humor is "family" humor, which is the "best in the world." Because England's population of 53
million is crowded into an area less than twice that of North Carolina, with no great differences in race or
climate, the British have a uniform sense of humor.

Added to this is the fact that the English have a truly "national" press in which any single newspaper can
be found throughout the country. Because of all this, he explained, humor plays a large part in English life. It
can be found in almost every column of a British newspaper.

"Even in the House of Commons," said Hollowood, "a speech that failed to produce laughter would be considered a failure."

In concluding his chapel talk, he advised all aspiring cartoonists and humorists to go into some other field at first,
in order to gain experiences that will later provide material to draw or write about.

"You won't know anything funny until you’re 30," he quipped.The election of the president of the Freshman Council would be
held at the next meeting. Two freshman representatives to the campus Social Council will also be elected at that time.
In addition, the chairman of three committees for Freshman Parents’ Day, Nov. 13, were elected: Craig Wilson, program committee; Bayard
Miller, registration committee; and Dan Mombrea, tour committee.

Freshman Court Takes Lenient Stand Thus Far

The Freshman Court has taken on a newly inactive role this year in enforcing the not-so-regulatory Freshman Regulations. According to
Dave Powell, freshman advisor and chairman of the court, “Almost everybody seems to be satisfied with the way things have
been going.” Powell disclosed that the Freshman Court has not met once this year. But then he added, “No reports
of violations have been turned in to me.” Powell then pointed out that the nature of the Freshman Regulations has
been changed from the compulsory nature of previous years to a more voluntary one. For example, last year's rule which
stated that “freshmen must speak respectfully to everyone they meet on campus,” has become this year’s advice, “A friendly and
respectful greeting by freshmen to everyone they meet on campus is a habit which continues Davidson's atmosphere of amiability.”

Probably the most obvious change in the regulations is that freshmen are now required to wear their beanies only at
athletic events, rather than at just any place out-of-doors. The policy on name tags is the same as ever, but
many of the ‘69ers seem reluctant to comply with the last noticeable remnant of the old regulations. (Freshmen are still
required to take a test on the Honor Code, college yells, etc.). “Frankly, I haven't the desire to enforce any
of these rules through the Freshman Court,” said Powell, “but I may have to do so if people don’t start
wearing their name tags.” Commenting on the effect of this year’s regulations in building class spirit, Powell remarked, “The freshman
class has shown more spirit than any that I have seen in my experience here.”

The inauguration of a suggestion box, the filling of open positions on campus committees, and the backing of the retirement
of Fred Hetzel’s jersey highlighted the Student Council meeting Monday night. The Student Opinions Committee, under the auspices of the
Student Council, will install a suggestion box in the College Union for the purpose of poll-taking on various issues. “We
hope that any students with pertinent suggestions will feel free to use it,” said Paul Marion, chairman of the committee.
Polls will be taken on such things as the spending of the $25,000 Student Activities Fee, Vesper and chapel regulations,
a free cut system, the parking problem, fraternities, the drinking issue, and other matters of general student concern. “We hope
that the students will take it seriously as it is a good way to bring action to the problem and
get a general idea of thoughts on the subject by the students,” Marion stated.

Tom Rhodes attended the meeting to report on the possibility of opening the gym on a regular basis. He announced
that the gym will be open next week on some kind of schedule if it can be worked out with
Coach Lefty Driesell. He asked that everyone check the bulletin to find out when the gym will be open. Open
positions on four of the campus committees were filled as the Council voted on the nominees who had expressed interest
in serving on the committees. Mike Mooty was elected to the Religious Life Committee followed by the election of Allen
Webb and Stan Guest to the Artist Series and Public Lectures Committee. The Committee on Clubs, Fraternities, and Social Life
added Lee Fanning and Dave Meschan to its roll; Paul Marion will serve on the Athletic Committee.

Chuck Matthews announced the Carolina-Virginia Region meeting of the NSA being held at UNC-G today and tomorrow. Various topics of
discussion will include the college judicial system, a course evaluation program, controversial regulations affecting students, awareness programs for students such
as Artist Series, teach-ins, talent shows and symposiums, and student representation on policy-making faculty committees.

Bill Council next asked for comments on the question of retiring Fred Hetzel’s number 44 from the basketball team. The
athletic department contends that there is a shortage of numbers, but most students feel that Hetzel’s accomplishments while at Davidson
certainly merit the retiring of his jersey shortage of numbers or not. The Council was all in favor of action
that would prevent the use of the number this year.

Dave Powell suggested the discontinuation of the postcards reminding Student Council members of the Monday night meeting. He contended that
they should be interested enough in fulfilling their obligations that they should not need to be constantly reminded. He also
cited the money that would be saved, as well as the savings in time and labor by the secretary of
the Council, Ben Cannon. Paul Marion suggested that the cards include the topics to be discussed at the meeting that
night, but it was realized that this would merely mean more work for Cannon. A vote was taken in favor
of dropping the weekly reminder cards.

As the meeting closed, Bill Council reminded the members to get busy and start thinking about their topics for the
general platform. He also announced that the Student Council Office was now open on a regular basis. Absent from the
meeting were Jim Timmons, Randy McKnight, and Julian Prosser.

With Homecoming just around the corner, the time is right for a visit from RUSH WILSON, Ltd. Visit with us
for a fine selection of distinctive new outfits. Suits, Sport Coats, Trousers, Sweaters, and Dress Shirts.

Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N.C.
