PAGE FOUR / Retired Dr. H. T. Lilly Views College Library
By DONALD DAVIS
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

“The library is the central work-horse of the college,” summarized Henry T. Lilly, professor emeritus of English, as he commented
on his concern with the Davidson College Library.

Lilly retired from the English department last spring and at the same time retired from the chairmanship of the Library
Committee after holding this position for 32 years. He was a member of the committee for 35 years. “I don't
know why they let me stay that long,” mused Lilly. “I suppose they just felt sorry for me.”

According to Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the Library, this is quite to the contrary. “When Dr. Lilly came to
Davidson the library was housed in the Carnegie Library which is the present Guest House. Since that time the Grey
Memorial Library and the additional Babcock wing have been erected and the book stock has increased from 40,000 to 110,000
volumes. At the same time the library book and periodical budget has increased from $3,000 annually to $95,000 and the
staff has increased from two professional members to four with five assistants.”

While all this has taken place, Lilly is always looking toward the future of the library. “We need very soon
a new library building which will cost several million dollars, and we need to try to add from 25,000 to
40,000 books annually. The biggest problem is always getting enough money. I have always tried and Dr. Davidson has always
tried very hard to get money for the library,” said Lilly.

Davidson also credits President D. Grier Martin with much effort in obtaining funds for the library. “President Martin is responsible
for our getting $40,000 from the Duke Endowment for the library recently which greatly increased the budget. He is determined
to keep raising money for the library too.”

Dr. J. A. McGeachy, professor of history, has assumed the position as chairman of the library committee. “Dr. McGeachy is
very interested in the library,” said Lilly, “and is very capable in this position.” Davidson remarked of McGeachy, “He is
a fine scholar who is very dedicated and is very competent in this field.”

In addition to his long service on the library committee, upon his retirement Lilly presented several hundred books to the
library. “Dr. Lilly gave us many very useful books from his own library and also gave some books, which our
library already had copies of, to the library at Barber Scotia College. This shows Dr. Lilly’s high regard of scholarship
and his long devotion to the college,” commented Davidson.

Always trying to credit others, Lilly remarked, “There are so many people interested in the library: Dr. (Malcolm) Lester and
Dr. (Frank W.) Bliss just to name two who have worked very hard along with Dr. McGeachy. I should really
thank Davidson because I have enjoyed the library so much.”

Dr. White Will Speak At Vespers

The Vespers speaker Sunday will be Dr. W. D. White, professor of English in the Christian Culture Department of St.
Andrews Presbyterian College, Laurinburg. Dr. White is a native of Texas and received his education at Baylor, University of Texas
and Princeton. Before accepting his present position, he spent four years at Duke University as director of undergraduate study in
the Religion Department. Dr. White's sermon is entitled “That I May Know Him.”

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brinkley
Jackson
Mitchell
Roberts
Cornwell
Kaylor
Orr
Sackett
Crawley
Long
Patterson, W. B.
Epes
McKelway
Puckett
Schenck
Gill
Williams, G. M.

Columbian Will Speak On ‘Non-Involvement’

“Goldfish Swallowing, Panty Raids and Non-Involved ‘Involvement’” will be the topic of a talk by Dr. H. Harrison Jenkins in
Monday’s chapel. He will discuss current American college student unrest in its historical and international perspectives. “As a locus,” said
Dr. Jenkins, “I shall use an octet by the American poet Vachel Lindsay, ‘The Leaden Eyed.’ A 1912 verse, the
poem deals with the ‘quaint deeds’ of young people.”

Dr. Jenkins is currently associate editor of The Columbia (S. C.) Record. A native of Columbia, he was educated in
the Columbia public schools and was graduated from the University of South Carolina in 1941 with a BA in journalism.
He received his master’s degree in English from the University of South Carolina and his PhD in English from the
University of Florida in 1957. His doctoral specialty was Present-Day English with a minor in linguistics. As an instructor at
the University of Florida, he taught Freshman English, American Literature and Southern Literature. At North Carolina State College he taught
both English and journalism. On June 1, 1964, he assumed his full-time duties as associate editor of The Columbia Record.
He had been associate editor on a part-time basis for the preceding year.

Brought to Davidson by the Conservative Club, Dr. Jenkins will remain on campus to speak at a meeting of the
club Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Green Room of the Union.

Don’t Miss A Single Issue This Fall!

Name
Address
City
State
ZIP
I enclose $4.00 New
Mail to: Circulation Mgr.
Bill me at $4.50 Renewal
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036

AED To Present Charlotte Doctor

Dr. Marvin Lymberis of Charlotte will speak at an open meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, at 7:15
p.m. Tuesday in the Dana Science Building. Dr. Lymberis will speak on Medicare and its effects on the beginning physician.

Seven new members — all seniors — were recently initiated into the fraternity. The seven were Charles Turner, Bill Walton,
John Good, Bob Groat, Grey Winfield, Jim McQueen and Dan Crocker. Dr. W. C. Puckett, professor of biology, presented a
short address following the initiation on the history of pre-medical education at Davidson.

MONEY DOES GROW ON TREES IN THE SOUTH
HELP PREVENT FOREST FIRES!

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.!

LAKESIDE INN
Old Fashioned Fish Fry
Complete Party Service
Rt. 115—1st Paved Road North Of Fox Drive-In Theater
596-2711 — 344-2990 — 377-2101

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
Dining and Dancing
5100 N. Tryon St.
For Reservations Phone 596-9985

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HISTORY IS MADE
Johnston - Kimbrough Wedding Is A First

The Sept. 4 wedding of Letitia Dabney Currie Johnston, daughter of Dean Frontis W. Johnston, and Lawrence Maury Kimbrough, son
of Professor John T. Kimbroughof the Math Department, was the first marriage in the history of Davidson College to be
solemnized between two children of members of the faculty. The wedding took place in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, which
was almost filled to capacity with numerous friends and relatives of both families, including former President and Mrs. John R.
Cunningham. A reception at the home of Dean Johnston, “Dogwood Dale,” followed the wedding. It was termed an event almost
as beautiful as the wedding itself, being held in the spacious garden adjoining the white-pillared residence of the Dean. One
distinguished guest described it by saying, “Mecklenburg has rarely witnessed a reception which combined in one evening so much society
and sobriety.”

For “Tish” Johnston, her marriage in the College Church was a doubly sentimental occasion, for her ties with the college
are deep. Both her mother and father attended Davidson College, as well as both of her grandfathers. Lawrence, who is
also a Davidson graduate, is not the only Kimbrough to marry a member of the “faculty family.” Three years ago
his sister, then Miss Pattie Kimbrough, married Professor Richardson King of the Math Department.

Students May Receive Income Tax Credit Soon

Students enrolling at Davidson in the future may receive substantial deductions in the form of tax credits from their expenses
for tuition, books, and other essential fees under a measure sponsored by Sen. Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut. According to the
Senator's plan, those paying college tuition would receive credit for such expenses against their federal income tax. Advocates of the
plan emphasize the difference between a tax credit and a tax deduction. Each dollar of credit would reduce a person’s
tax by one dollar. If a taxpayer owed $1,000 at the end of the tax year and had qualified for
a $400 tax credit, he would owe the federal government only $600 in income tax. A $400 tax credit would
save exactly $400 for the individual, whether he earned $5,000 a year or $20,000. A deduction, on the other hand,
would save a $20,000-a-year man more tax dollars than a $5,000-a-year man.

Campus revolution! Slacks that never need ironing—never! Galey and Lord permanent press fabrics of polyester and cotton. Stay neat—however washed!
Galey Lord

After 35 years as a teacher of sociology, Visiting Professor of Sociology, is a man obviously still fascinated with his
work. He certainly didn’t waste the opportunity afforded by the interview to delve into the sociology of the Davidson community.
A little research has revealed that Dr. Hayes is the author of a book called The Small Community Looks Ahead.
Asked how Davidson compares with other towns of his experience, Hayes said, “Davidson is unique in that in most places
where a college exists, the town is much larger. Frequently a town and gown conflict develops. Davidson is unique in
the sense that the college is completely dominant.” He questioned whether or not the town could operate aside from the
college. He then turned the tables and proceeded to ask a series of searching questions about student reaction to Davidson
and went on to propose the possibility of research in this area. “I would be very much interested to know
how students from urban areas react to this,” he added. “Some of them from places of 100,000 or so probably
aren’t even aware that places such as Davidson exist.”

The next logical question for a sociologist seemed to be the one on that perennially favorite controversy: fraternities. Hayes begged
off the question with specific regard to Davidson since he has been here only a little more than two weeks.
On his general subject, however, he said, “Very frequently exclusion injures sensitive people seriously. It (the fraternity system) certainly introduces
an invidious distinction. I'm pretty sure it’s tied in with class structure.” He added, “All this business of teaching moral
characteristics is—uncertain.” However, he emphasized, “I’ve hardly been here long enough to know my way around, much less to pass
judgment.”

The Ribicoff-Dominick Bill of 1964 (which failed by only 3 votes) is based on the first $1,500 paid for tuition,
fees, books, and supplies per student at an institution of higher learning.

Memorial Award Given For Black

A Sandy Black Memorial Award, worth at least $450 annually, has been initiated to be given to the rising pre-medical
student considered the most outstanding by the administration and chairmen of the Departments of Biology and Chemistry. The award was
established by Mrs. Sam Orr Black of Spartanburg, S.C., in memory of her grandson, Sam (Sandy) Orr Black II. Black,
a son, grandson, and great-grandson of doctors, was killed last spring in an auto accident near the end of his
junior year at Davidson. The award will be presented annually at Spring Awards Day.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1965

VISITING PROFESSOR Looks At Town

Dr. Wayland Jackson Hayes, Davidson's Visiting Professor of Sociology, is a man obviously still fascinated with his work. (Photo by
Gill)

The amount of credit would be 75 per cent of the first $200 spent, 25 per cent of the next
$300, and 10 per cent of the next $1,000. The maximum credit allowable would be $325. Thus, based on 1963
figures, a student paying tuition of $1,190 at Davidson would receive $294 worth of tax credit, or a 24.7 per
cent reduction in his tuition expenses. Opponents of the plan point out that many schools may hike their charges to
make up for the student “savings.” Other groups, such as the National Education Association and the American Association of University
Professors, fear that the government will begin to vote fewer funds for scholarships, student loans, research grants, and new facilities.

According to Director of Admissions, H. Edmunds White, the Ribicoff plan and others similar to it “have tremendous possibilities.” The
extensive publicity which the federal government can give such programs can make them more enticing to the public. “Colleges have
loaned money for years, but the general public was never in favor of borrowing until the National Defense Loan Act
made it seem an acceptable thing to do,” White remarked. “A very significant advantage of national scholarship programs is the
encouragement offered to students from low-income families,” White continued. “Whereas he might not be able to go to Harvard, he
is still able to consider some college—a thought which might not otherwise have entered his mind.”

The look of tradition in the NATURAL GENTLEMAN manner by BOTANY 500 Sport Coats and Slacks

In custom fabricked Sport Coats and Slacks, Daroff, tailor of Philadelphia, has captured the truly American flavor of natural-shoulder casual
wear. See the new Tapered-Trim Design in both slacks and coats. Priced to maintain America’s greatest quality-value.

John Hock & Son Mooresville
