PAGE FOUR

‘Cats Annihilate Pitiful Paladins

The Wildcats continued their full-fledged rejuvenation by rolling over Furman’s Purple Paladins to the tune of 24-0 last Saturday at Greenville. The Davidsons dominated the entire game—both offensively and defensively. Every statistical department (except penalties)—from first downs to interceptions to punting—went to the Wildcats.

Taking the opening kick-off, Homer’s boys drove to a touchdown on the running of Steve Smith and Billy Taylor and the passing combination of Jimmy Poole and Pete Glidewell. Taylor caught a flip pass from Poole for the score. After the ensuing kick-off, the defense took over and stymied every attempt of quarterback Sammy Wyche, supposedly an outstanding signal-caller, to move the ball.

The offense struck twice more in the half, on a Poole to Buddy Newsom TD pass and a 27-yard field goal by Jim Terry. The ’Cats clearly dominated the second half although several bad breaks prevented them from increasing the score by more than one touchdown. This came on a Poole to William Rikard pass. Terry kicked the extra point, his 22nd consecutive conversion. Bad breaks such as a fumble on Furman’s two-yard line and several doubtful clipping calls bogged the Davidson offense down toward the end of the game.

‘CATS’

DICK SHORT

“Misery Man” Short Tops Tough D

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“He's a misery man.” Thus a teammate describes Dick Short, a head-hunting “tackler” in Coach Fagg’s highly successful defensive unit. When asked to explain, the fellow Gurkha simply said, “Dick really puts the misery to you.”

Short, a senior from Hammond, Louisiana, has been putting the misery to opponents since he began playing organized football in the sixth grade. Having played both guard and linebacker since then, he has decided that he prefers defense to offense. When asked why, Dick replied, “I like the feel of hitting. On defense you really do the dishing out.”

Dick is obviously cut out for the “tackler” slot on the defensive squad. (A “tackler” roughly corresponds to the linebacker of the old school). He described his duty as simply to make the tackle. Having no gap or zone responsibility, he keys only the ball and goes after it.

Described by several of his teammates as “quiet,” Dick seemed to have no trouble finding words when asked about the Gurkhas, Davidson's defensive unit. “The Gurkhas were a fierce warrior tribe in India,” he stated. “It's said that if one got an arm or something torn off in battle, he just kept on fighting.

“It’s great to know that everybody on the field is giving everything they've got—100% all the time. We have a lot of pride as a unit,” he continued. “The farthest penetration we've had against us was a pass interception by Furman on our eighteen. We've never had to use a goal line defense.”

The coaching staff quickly realized Dick's ability last spring. One of the first to be awarded a position, Dick has been given the responsibility of calling the defensive signals. Dick will graduate this spring with a major in history. Although his specific plans for graduate school are not complete, he intends to attend seminary and enter the Presbyterian ministry.

When asked to express his feeling about the future of Davidson football, Dick expressed optimism that has typified the ‘New Look.’ “You must realize,” he said, “that Davidson will always operate within certain limitations.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Photo by Johnson)

GURKHAS CLOSE IN FOR THE KILL

The Name Of The Game Is Defense

New Look Kittens Open Against Citadel Bullpups

The Davidson College Freshman Football team opens their five-game schedule against The Citadel freshmen in Charleston, S. C., today at 2 p.m. Coaches Dave Fagg and Don Campbell will direct the 26-man frosh team as they attempt to improve on last year’s record of two wins and three losses.

The frosh will use the same offense and defense which the varsity uses, and which features the “tweener back” on offense and interceptors and anchors on defense. Standouts for the Davidson frosh include Greg Cox, a halfback from Charlotte, Kerry Keith, a defensive cornerman and “tweener” from Falls Church, Virginia, Mike Thornton, a safety and a fullback from High Point, Jeff Pflugner, an anchor from Cincinnati, Ohio, Sandy Brenneman, a center from Morganton, and Rick Simonson, a quarterback from Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania.

Coach Dave Fagg, who was an assistant coach at The Citadel last year, expects The Citadel to, “Run most of the time and to do little passing.” He also said, “we will probably pass as much as we run.” Coach Campbell summed up the frosh attitude in this manner: “We have beaten The Citadel freshmen for the past two years, and we are going to Charleston to win. Our spirit is good, and the boys really want to win. We'll be tough.”

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1965

Streaking ‘Cats To Meet Battle-Tested Soldierboys

By DOUG CRISP
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Riding high on a two-game winning streak, the undefeated, unscored-upon Wildcats of Davidson journey to Charleston, South Carolina, to take on their second Southern Conference opponent this season, The Citadel, tomorrow.A person watching the Citadel team, as Coach Homer Smith says, “Can hardly tell one player from another, because they are all so thoroughly trained. It's that kind of team. They have nothing resembling a weak spot.” The Bulldogs have good depth and balance, partly owing to the large number of men out for football there. They have about twice as many candidates out for the team as does Davidson. As far as the individual strength of the Citadel goes, they have probably the best punt return man in the conference in Francis Grant. John Reeves, an offensive tackle and the team captain, is “an exceptional player and a pro prospect.” Jeter Rhodes, the Bulldog quarterback, is a left-handed passer. Quips Coach Smith, “We're working on intercepting the ball that spins the opposite way — left-handed ballistics.” The ‘Cats have intercepted six passes in the first two games and will be after every “left-handed aerial” that The Citadel attempts. Unlike some teams, the Wildcats will not change their offense and defense radically each week. “We will use the Davidson offense and defense and try to be better each week,” says Coach Smith. “We should improve continually each week, because we have had only two scrimmages — Presbyterian and Furman — and have not leveled off, but are still learning. We took a critical look at ourselves on film and are dedicated to improving. We will always try to play with more effort than we did last week — always.” The Citadel beat Davidson last year, 28-0, but the Cadets lead in the series by only 18 to 17. There have been four ties.

MISSED! — (Photo by Johnson) GLIDEWELL (21) MISSES A PASS A Rare Occurrence Last Saturday

Glidewell Stars As ‘Cat Sub
By JOHN ALLEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Sophomores are an important factor in Coach Homer Smith’s “New Look,” and one of them who has already contributed a lot this year is Pete Glidewell. Glidewell, from Reidsville, was a standout on last year's freshman team, but was expected to play only in utility roles this year. He worked at quarterback and all three running back positions in the spring and fall, and backed up Jim Terry with place-kicking duties. When starting “Tweener back” Johnny Walker injured his leg in second-half action against PC, Glidewell came in to fill the gap and nabbed two passes, both of them good for touchdowns. Against Furman he continued to star at his fill-in spot, grabbing 5 passes and making one other great and debatable sideline catch. He now leads the team in scoring, along with Billy Taylor, with 12 points and is the leading pass-receiver with 8 official catches. Glidewell has also totaled a 3.5-yard rushing average and 100 yards in total offense. While pleased with this opportunity to “Help the ‘Cats get off to the right start,” Glidewell is too modest to say much about it. Coach Smith, however, is full of praise for him. “Anytime a man can substitute on the first-team unit and look like a star as Pete did, it is a real thrill for me,” said Coach Smith. He also commented that Glidewell has been working very hard all year, developing speed and blocking and receiving ability, and that he will see a lot of action this season. When pressed to say anything about his performance Glidewell refuses to take any glory. “The position I play has been given such intricate pass patterns by Coach Smith that the manager's baby sister could play it and catch passes in the open.” Though not officially on the first unit, Pete will be starting Saturday against the Citadel while Walker is still injured. Even if he stays in his utility position, Smith concedes he will be playing a good deal and will have plenty of chances to help the ‘Cats this year.

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSHING
          TC  GAIN  LOSS  NET  AVG.
SMITH     46  154    3    151  3.3
TAYLOR    25  108    3    105  4.2
JACOBSEN  11   43    0     43  3.9
WALKER    9    32    0     32  3.6
CALDWELL  2    30    0     30  15.0
POOLE     21   71   52     19  0.9
GLIDEWELL 6    21    0     21  3.5

PASSING
          ATT.  COMP.  INT.  YD.  TD
JACOBSEN  9     7      0     99   1
POOLE     35    18     2     182  5
TAYLOR    2     1      0     13   0

RECEIVING
          CT.  YD.  TD
GLIDEWELL 8    79   2
KENDALL   6    62   1
TAYLOR    4    34   1
RIKARD    5    80   1
NEWSOM    2    22   1
JOHNSON   1    17   0

SCORING
          TD  CONV.
GLIDEWELL 2
TAYLOR    2
WALKER    1
KENDALL   1
NEWSOM    1
RIKARD    1
TERRY     8

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Visit The PROVIDENCE MANOR INN
611-A Providence Rd.
Same shopping center as Manor Theater
Just a few blocks from Queens College
Your favorite beverage in quiet, plush atmosphere
“Featuring Japanese & German Imported Beverages”
Newest Lounge in Charlotte
Reservations — Private Parties

The Young Man in the Know knows “Dacron”. Trusts oxford button-down shirts of 65% Dacron polyester, 35% combed cotton to stay neat, fresh, wrinkle-free all day long. White, colors, stripes at fine stores everywhere. *Du Pont's registered trademark.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Campus revolution! Slacks that never need ironing — never! Galey and Lord permanent press fabrics of polyester and cotton. Stay neat — however washed!