FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HANK TAYLOR SHOWS AMERICAN WIT

Dr. and Mrs. T. O. Pinkerton Entertain In Their German Home

Turner Tours Europe, Finds ‘Second Heaven’

By CHARLES TURNER

When I began to think of the many experiences we had during our travels, it is hard to decide what I should write about. To describe all of the adventures could easily develop into a book, and yet I wonder what you would find to be most interesting. I suppose I could start off by telling about the theft of our passports, travelers checks, etc., while we were in Vienna. Included in this report would be the detective in the police office who smiled and told us that such thefts happen regularly during the tourist season and that there was very little he could do for us. Fortunately, the U.S. Consulate issued us temporary passports to replace those stolen.

Maybe your readers would be more interested in a description of Larik Abdullah, an Iraqi boy whom we met in Vienna, and with whom we traveled from Vienna to Istanbul. He had boxed in the 1960 Olympics in Rome, winning there a silver medal and meeting Archie Moore, whose friendship he treasured more than the silver medal he won. His many antics and his high spirits made our stay in Vienna pleasurable, despite the mishap with our passports and travelers checks.

Perhaps I should also tell about a boy we met in Budapest, Hungary, who walked up to us on the street and asked if we had any western magazines or newspapers. After we gave him a copy of Time, he showed us to a cheap hotel, of which there are few and far between in Hungary, and also gave us a good tour of the city. He wants to visit Germany this summer but can only bring the equivalent of five dollars out of Hungary. I am now in the process of finding him a job in Marburg so that he will be able to make the trip.

The most enjoyable part of the trip was Greece, mainly because it was the first country we came to after Turkey. Athens is beautiful and not too expensive, and therefore is the gathering place of all sun-loving, Europe-touring Americans. We met five other Marburg-Davidson gentlemen while drinking coffee on Constitution Square in front of the American Express office. Tiff Harrington and Bunky Blalock gave us the idea of visiting Meghonos Island, where we spent a week reading and lying in the sun. On the island, we met a painter who hails from Biloxi, Miss., and who has lived on the island for seven years. The main town is very clean, the people are friendly (and somewhat tourist-minded), and rooms with running water can be found for fifty cents a night. Heaven? I thought that Meghonos runs a close second.

How about Italy next? In Rome, there is too much to see. One must stay there for at least a month to do it halfway justice. However, giving the Colosseum, Pantheon, and Forum all due credit, I found the catacombs to be the most interesting sight. They are a network of tunnels under the city which were used mainly as the cemeteries for the early Christians and as places of worship. For the artists on our campus, Florence would be the main place of interest. (I do not mean to exclude Michelangelo’s work in Rome, especially the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, where one needs binoculars to assure himself that the Daniel is really painted and not sculptured.) The Uffizi Gallery, the Palatine Palace, and the National Museum of the Bargello, to name a few, show many works by Botticelli, Titian, Raphael, Rubens, Bellini, and da Vinci, as well as works of Michelangelo and many others.

After leaving Florence, we spent four or five days traveling through Switzerland on the way back to Marburg, during which time we relaxed from the trip and tried to prepare ourselves to meet another semester at the University.

By DAVE ORR

To squeeze nine months of life in Europe, particularly in Germany, into a short space is a physical impossibility. I have pondered at length concerning what would interest most the Davidson students about our year: Would it be descriptions of the untold number of people we have met and of the places we have seen that present history alive and unforgettable? Would it be excerpts of the political discussions we have had with students in regard to America, its position as world leader, and more specifically its position in South Vietnam? Or would it be explanations of the various customs and habits of the German people? However, all of this is available in newspaper or magazine articles written by men much more versed than I, and in a manner exceedingly more interesting than mine. Thus I have decided to briefly explain what this year has meant to me personally.

Simply stated, I have discovered myself. I went to Davidson as most freshmen determined to work like hell and get the best grades possible. Little else mattered. Then also as most Davidson students, I discovered that grades were not the standard of an education, but instead of applying myself to individual work, I believed the school was at fault and thus spent the whole sophomore year doing little but criticizing the Davidson system. Had I not come to Germany this year, I probably would still be floundering in that hapless profession which enthralls so many of our students.

Here, with so much independence that it sometimes overwhelms you—no requirements for attending class, no assigned books, no tests—where one can sleep all day if he wishes, where one can go skiing for three weeks if it suits his fancy, where one can play cards and drink beer until early morning any time he pleases, you soon discover where your interests lie, and whether or not you are indeed a student. If you discover that you are really stimulated by the ideas, movements, and peoples throughout the history of our planet, as I have, you become a new personality who will never return to the constant profitless criticism of an educational system because you recognize that your education will be the result of your own effort or non-effort.

Having been exposed to so many people and nations during the course of this year, none of us here will ever be able to disinterest ourselves in the problems of our past, present, or future world. To listen to two of your best friends, a Syrian and a German, discuss Ulbricht’s visit to Cairo and Germany's arms delivery to Israel frustrates you. There is no right or wrong, but it also impels you to search for an answer, not a solution maybe, but at least an attempt. To know and appreciate very little about art, then go through the magnificent galleries of Europe and marvel at the shadings of Da Vinci, the colors of Caravaggio and El Greco, the masculinity of Michelangelo, the tones of Bellini. You can't help but want to learn more. To be totally ignorant of opera, then to see and hear Rossini’s “Barber of Seville,” Verdi's “Don Carlos,” Beethoven's “Fidelio” makes you aware of all the time you have wasted, but will no more, thinking opera was “square.” To meet a janitress in Prague who speaks six languages makes you ashamed of your shoddy language of two, but helps in your determination to learn more.

I and the other students here will come home looking and speaking similar to before our departure, but inside there will be something new that will never be extinguished, a fire that possibly would never have been ignited had we not been a part of the European community for this past year.

THE EDITOR

European Study ‘Lights Fire’ for Davidsonian In Germany

‘Living Into’ German Highlights Taylor’s Stay

By HANK TAYLOR

If I am queried as to what I consider the greatest single aspect of this Junior Year in Germany, I have an immediate answer—the learning of the language. It should quickly become clear to you that I am referring to a learning process which is quite different from anything you would be able to experience by learning a language at home. A German word for this process could be translated as “living into” the language. It means a really thorough acquaintance, based on constant seeing, hearing, using, and feeling of the language. It means, especially at first, a great deal of mental discipline, forcing oneself not only to speak but also to think in German. It also means plenty of downright hard work. But it is a process as rich, exciting, and rewarding in itself as in its results.

How could I ever explain, for example, the enthusiasm one feels as he hears roll from his lips complicated forms and involved sentences which cost him so much precious time and so many errors on a second or third-year grammar test... One's delight in speaking to fellow students in colloquialisms which have always before been a stumbling block and which his texts didn't even bother to translate, but merely approximated in a footnote... One's satisfaction in learning the rhythm of the language and many other technicalities for which there are no rules, but only a feeling... And, perhaps above all, the pride one feels after speaking with a German and being asked what part of Germany one comes from; the exclamation of surprise or even the gaping stare when he hears that you're an American.

Here I would mention that you do your country considerable service in Americans, partly at least for good reasons (we aren’t thrown daily with other languages as Europeans are), have the evil reputation among many Europeans of never learning a foreign language or having the least interest in doing so. Your counter-example will delight the European and edify the “American image.”

More than anything else, a foreign language is an opener of doors. It is your introduction to another culture to an extent and in a fashion which the best translator cannot equal. Ability in the native language is your door to another people, to how they live, and to how and what they think and believe. It can create for you opportunities to observe and to actually live their way of life to an extent which the tourist never dreams possible.

It appears to me that the very learning of a language has ipso facto a broadening effect. It seems to me to function something like this: Anyone who has studied even the bargain. most other languages, has a rather rigid and complicated pattern which determines the order in which a sentence is to be constructed. Americans usually have fit with it, because they're used to throwing in words and clauses as the spirit moves them. It is impossible to conquer this difficulty without learning to mentally approach a sentence as a German does.

Another example: Learning German language, or any language, is much more than learning the expressions which translate literally from one speech to the other. Especially in the realm of idiomatic expressions, where the bulk of the material has no direct English equivalent, one must get out of his old accustomed ways of expressing himself and of comprehending.

To change frequency and end on a very practical note, I would like to mention that a second language is a tremendous help to one here when he travels, and almost regardless of where he travels. I was quite amazed by the number of people in Greece and Italy who spoke German, and not only in the highly educated groups. A great number of everyday working people have lived in Germany as guest workers, taking advantage of high German wages.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and good German beer. Their German was hardly that of a professor, but they were very courteous, friendly, and helpful, and were often an otherwise lost opportunity to what Mark Twain called “das goshawful Word-order.” Mr. Twain was referring to the fact that German, as opposed to ‘meet the people.’ I felt more indebted to German than ever, after having traveled outside of Germany.

Davidson’s Critics Draw Criticism From New Critics

Morrisett

Dear Editor:

Since last September I have followed with keen interest the rather eventful year at Davidson. If one word describes the year there it must be “re-evaluation.” Early last fall it was the athletic program. Later it was the fraternity situation. Then another rehash of the faculty path. And now again you are taking a look at the drinking rule. I think it is commendable that the Davidson student body cares enough to continually re-evaluate its situation, as long as this re-evaluation is constructive and directed toward self-improvement. But as I read each edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN, it becomes very clear to me that in several instances, much of what is said and done by the Davidson student as a reaction to a certain existing situation is not constructive. In fact, much of the criticism has been extremely harsh, biting, and destructive. I consider articles by Mr. Smith, Mr. Clark, and Mr. Carson as notable examples. It is not so much the criticism itself which is unhealthy, but rather the tone in which it is voiced. It is often sarcastic and not infrequently cynical. I do not wish to imply that this tone suddenly raised its ugly head this year. It has been slowly scratching at the surface, sucking the very goodness from and sapping the strength of the student-faculty relationship. If we were as quick to praise as we are to criticize, not only would the number of problems diminish, but their solutions could be found more rapidly. We get so involved in the intricacies of a problem that we often lose a great deal of the perspective which is so desperately needed for securing a suitable answer. It appears that, to a certain extent, such was the case with the social life question. But the trustees have come to the aid of both the independent and the fraternity member. It is they, along with several faculty members, who have lent stability and perspective to the situation. In addition, they have revoked the shackling faculty oath. Yes, the fraternities will have more pledge classes. You will have a football team next year. The library will get more books from the increased budget. And the college will get some more great minds who wouldn't have come because of the oath. With all this, I think it is gross ingratitude if you cry for more liberal rules so that drinking on campus is not unlawful, taking a girl into the dormitory is not against regulations, or attending vespers or chapel is not compulsory. Rules and regulations at one institution are not necessarily applicable at another (e.g. Dartmouth). Personally, I think you owe the trustees and several members of the faculty, particularly Dr. McGavock, a debt of gratitude for all they have done for you during the past year. Whenever you engage in conversation with graduate students here, invariably the conversation turns to “Where did you do your undergraduate study?” When you answer ‘Davidson,’ you get an assortment of replies like “Oh, I wish I had gone there,” or “They really turn out a scholar there.” It didn't take many comments like these to develop an immense pride in my Alma Mater. So to you, the Davidson man, I would say this. Be quick to praise and slow to prick your school. You have good reason to be proud of it.

UNC At Chapel Hill

Moye

Dear Editor:

It is a fact of life that the present generation is always impatient with many existing customs and institutions; needless to say, the world is much better because of them, and let us hope that the present Davidson student body will continue to be impatient. We must realize, however, that we are not the first young people who have felt so suppressed by existing conditions. Thomas Jefferson said that the world is for the living; that is, the past customs and traditions should not necessarily bind the present. Indeed, there have been many constructive changes made in the condition of the Davidson student. I seem to have heard that the Vespers system has been liberalized; witness the recent faculty action concerning Catholics and Jews. I am sure I recall having heard that the school's class cut system has been greatly changed, for I seem to have heard that cuts had been limited to just three per class per semester. It seems to me that in the dim, dark past of this previous fall semester that the drinking rule was greatly liberalized to the extent that liquor may be kept in a car trunk. Please, Mr. Kimrey, tell me these are not merely illusions. This is not to say that there are not many constructive changes which can yet be made to increase the academic, social, and athletic status of the college. We must realize that we, the present student body, are not bound necessarily by the past, but we are definitely responsible to the future for our actions. The fact is that the changes which have been made have resulted from a mutual feeling of responsibility among all members of the college community. Let us not be content to rest on past laurels and achievements, but let us make responsible suggestions and adopt a responsible attitude.

Alumnus Supports Fraternities

Dear Editor:

Of all the contrasting arguments presented in THE DAVIDSONIAN during this year regarding the social-life and fraternity crisis on the Davidson campus, I most enjoyed Michael Harrington's ideas on the matter, accompanied by your simultaneous running rebuttal. For the first time I am viewing Davidson from the outside, and I have had some difficulty defining a main issue on which I could formulate and pinpoint my opinions, given my own fraternity-social experience at Davidson. I think Mr. Harrington has provided the most substance with which I can associate. As a fraternity member, my social experience at Davidson was most enjoyable (probably too enjoyable). However, for all the benefits I reaped, I could never think of fraternity life as more than an association of like-minded or—tempered individuals banded together as a necessity of the social situation. Except for a few “brotherly” brothers, I think most fraternity men realize somewhat the same thing after the almost utter chaos of rush in the first week of school. My friendships developed at Davidson are well-made and well-remembered, but I cannot imagine that fraternity men love each other as fraternity “brothers.” So I would quote Mr. Harrington only insofar as to say that each individual fraternity is “nothing more than the individuals therein,” but the system is something else. I do feel that the voice which raised the issue has a legitimate plea. These non-fraternity men have had their opportunity for the widest social participation withdrawn in their first week at Davidson. I also feel that the “mysterious fog coming from Patterson Court or the Union” does exist as an aggregate social problem created by the fraternity system as a whole when it incorporates a freshman in its socially secure ranks. The result is two camps: one with social outlets, the other only individual initiative. One has, the other has not. The grounds for discrimination are ready-made. And yet, most fraternity men are less attached to their fraternities than the current outrage of their defense warrants. Visiting the campus recently, only a few days after the student demonstration which was directed more at one individual, I could not help but get the feeling that the demonstration was, for the most part, only a means of releasing pent-up energy reminiscent of student riots of other days. This is all well and good for this purpose, but I do not feel that the fraternity men truly fear for their fraternities except as a means of fulfilling a social necessity and maintaining their status on campus. The thought that returns to me time and again is that beyond the social superiority provided by the fraternity system, most students couldn't care less. However, this social superiority pervades student conduct, and the lack of other issues for common ground on which both “camps” might meet more congenially and even socially is, in my view, the overriding difficulty. Uninterested students, faced with the crisis which affects their only moving interest at Davidson, finally take arms. The issue is real and the outcome looms large in the future, but I most agree with Harrington's argument that too much energy is being channeled into a trite issue by college students who should be interested in larger issues for their movements. There is certainly more extra-curricular activity than I can remember in my experience at Davidson (the civil rights march, Davidson College voter-registration aid in Mooresville), but on the whole I cannot feel that most students are interested. I cannot be sure if the fault lies with Davidson College as a sounding board for the larger current “crucial national and international issues” or if the individual students lack the interest as a result of being in a community dedicated to preparing them for future involvement. But more stimulation must be provided from somewhere, and I feel the college is the logical source to generate more interest in current issues. My call would be for more central coordination of all the students: social activities, leave the fraternities as they are and give the students more grounds on which to respect each other through argument or discussion, and remove a student's social standing on campus as the means by which a man takes self-respect in campus life. I am in full agreement with Michael Harrington's hope that the six-month “experiment” in student involvement in what I recognize as a very real issue can blossom into a closer association by all students with more important issues.

Durwood C. Settles
Davidson College ‘64

---

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Don’t Miss a Single Copy This Fall 1965-66 DAVIDSONIAN

Name
Address
City and state
Zip Code
——New ——Renewal

——I enclose four dollars
——Bill me later at $4.50

Clip and mail to:
Circulation Manager
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036