Che BDavidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager
FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Fraternities (cont)
(Continued from page one)

We are disturbed that Davidson College officially condones a system of exclusiveness when that exclusiveness evolves from actions directly contrary
to the most fundamental principles of the college. Under no circumstances could we justify the existence of such a system
at Davidson so long as the college professes the lofty goals contained in its “Statement of Purpose.” Perhaps our concern
would be somewhat lessened were it not for the overpowering influence of the fraternity system on Davidson student life, and,
consequently, on Davidson College itself. But the impact of the system is not slight. To the contrary, it is monumental
both for the member and for the non-member.

Most noticeable, of course, is the force of the fraternity system on the non-member who desires to be a part
of that group which includes three out of every four Davidson students. The bitterness of “rejection” is strong and heart-breaking.
Moreover, this bitterness has caused many students to leave Davidson in pursuit of a more adequate social life. Less frequently
mentioned, but more important if for no reason other than the fact that it involves more people, is the effect
of the fraternity on its members. The freshman—if he wishes to “succeed” in rush—quickly learns what is expected of him.
If he cares and learns quickly enough, he will probably get the bid he wants. And once inside the fraternity,
the pledge continues to play the proper role in anticipation of initiation. In essence, he learns what the group expects
and responds accordingly if he wishes to become a part of that all-important group. At times the group expresses itself
subtly; at other times the group is quite blunt. There is no choice. Belong and conform. Or resign yourself to
social doom by depledging.

Delayed rush would attack the symptom, but the cause—the awesome power of the group—would remain untouched. And the power of
the group continues throughout the individual’s association with the fraternity. Thinking out loud about attending the Artist Series brings jeers
in some houses, raised eyebrows and smiles in others. Nevertheless, the pressure, no matter what form, is present. Only the
most strong-minded individual overcomes the pressure; most individuals tacitly—and usually unwittingly—submit.

What then must be done? How can the advantages of the present system best be maintained while the evils are
eradicated? The search for the answer to this basic question led to the formation of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee and
the issuance of the committee’s report tonight. Significant is the fact that 11 of the 12 members of the committee—an
overwhelming majority—generally agree with the statement of premise and the analysis of the problem in the committee report. Furthermore, and
most important of all, 11 of the 12 members of the committee support the adoption of the immediate proposals contained
in the committee report. We likewise urge the implementation of the immediate proposals.

Essentially, there is only one difference between the committee report and the minority report signed by Council, Kelton, Ross, and
Terry and supported by Jackson. The Kelton, Ross et al. report seeks more time to study the problem and to
review the effects of the immediate proposals. The minority report suggests that the solution might lie in establishing eating clubs
and strengthening Lingle Manor to compete effectively with the fraternities which would be maintained basically unchanged. This is essentially the
proposal articulated by IFC President Rick von Unwerth in November and since abandoned by him in favor of the committee
report.

The committee report, while more certain of what it considers the ultimate solution, provides for modification where this is considered
necessary. This report spells out specific steps to follow towards the realization of the proposed solution. Unlike the Kelton, Ross
et al. minority report, the committee report does not damn certain fraternities to oblivion while maintaining others. (Obviously if rush
were held this fall, several fraternities would have “less than 40 members for two consecutive semesters” and the next year
would not “be allowed to occupy a house on Patterson Court.”) Unlike the Kelton, Ross et al. report, the committee’s
main solution does not rest on the initiative of a scattered group of individuals to come together to form an
eating club. Rather than establishing completely new eating clubs to compete with the fraternities, the committee report urges that a
strong system of 12 eating clubs be established, using the present fraternity system as a base.

Pragmatically, we support the committee report: It builds on the present system. In addition, although labeled the “most radical” of
the three reports, the committee report spells out its goal and suggests a slow step-by-step process that would take five
years before the goal would be realized. Idealistically, we support the committee report: Eliminated would be the exclusive fraternity in
the Christian college. In its place would be a system in which each individual, as an individual, would have the
freedom to choose that house in which he wished to eat. The freedom of choice would be abridged by nothing
other than the physical facilities of the club house. And, with the removal of the blackball system and the demise
of the all-powerful and exclusive fraternities, the impact of group pressure—both blatant and subtle—would be greatly lessened, leaving a much
freer individual to pursue the liberal arts education so strongly supported by Davidson College.

Without any doubt, this editorial has caused us more pain and anguish than any other statement in the past year,
and not without reason. Our association with the fraternity system has always been friendly, and in our four years at
Davidson our relationship with the system has been increasingly close. Were our decision based on our own personal position within
the system at the present and nothing more, we would be staunch defenders of the status quo. However, looking beyond
ourselves, we see stagnation, wasted potential, and snobbish mediocrity among far too many fraternity members. Meanwhile, sitting beyond the inner
circle on Patterson Court are many students—all acceptable by the standards of Davidson College—rejected all too often for no reason
other than their lack of superficial coolness. Change, no matter how unpopular, must come. And the change must strike at
the origin rather than the outward signs of the problem: it is for this reason that we endorse without qualification
the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee.

Copy Editor .... Don Davis
Asst. Copy Editors Bill Aitken Calvin Zon
Photographers Sam Smith Tom Thel Erskine Sproul
Cartoonists Jack Lingle Rufus Hallmark Lou Hill
Asst. Business Mgr. Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. Bob Cameron

Contributors this week: Grey Pash, Toby Watt, Frank Fleming, Bob Howard, Dan Boone, David Ginn, Jim Morawetz, Bob Travers, Mike
Bates, Ed Maxwell, Joe Bentley, Jamie Bryant, Ted Glusman, Bob Strauser, Mike May, Steve Brown, Sam Boyte, Tom Cook, Paul
Marion, Neville Patterson, Chuck Byrd, John Allen.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS

Student Opposes Mercury Lamps

Dear Editor:

After reading the March 5 DAVIDSONIAN article on the proposed lighting system, I went with two other students to talk
to College Engineer Grover Meetze. Mr. Meetze said that the College administration had been considering this action ever since a
student was mugged one night several years ago, and that only “90% of the student body against it” could stop
the system's installation. Aside from the fact that the student referred to was attacked at the brilliantly-lighted post office, there
are two main objections to the installation of this type of lighting: the unsightliness of the lamps themselves and of
the light produced.

Mr. Meetze had attempted to find a “traditional” lamp design, but since none were available he was forced to choose
the least offensive. The result is an aluminum-and-glass affair resembling a bird feeder on a pole, one of which stood
behind Elm Row for several weeks in the fall. These fixtures will be laid out in three rows on the
West front lawn without regard to any campus buildings, providing a “pleasing” complement to the skeletal gifts of the Class
of ‘31 whose job it is to illuminate Chambers. The 1931 spotlights are vastly superior to the proposed mercury-vapor system
in their light, however, which casts a dim and warm yellow glow on the facade of Chambers. Anyone who has
seen the bluish-white glare of a mercury lamp will realize what it will do to the nighttime beauty of the
Davidson campus. With its starry night sky and softly floodlit buildings, the Davidson campus creates now a handsome and familiar
after-dark impression. If the new system is installed, the campus will look less like a traditional Southern college and more
like Charlotte Correctional Institution.

Davidson men may shudder at the Vow, smolder about the Speaker Ban, and chafe at liquor regulations, but since when
have the D. Gentlemen been afraid of the dark?

John Feuchtenberger
Davidson College

(Editor’s note: There are several errors of fact in the letter. The student referred to in the letter was originally
attacked in the vicinity of the literary buildings last year, rather than in front of the Post Office a few
years ago.)

IM SURE I Voice THE OPINION OF ALL MY FRATERNITY BROTHERS WHEN I SAY THAT THIS FRATERNITY EVALUATION REPORT HAS
IT ALL WRONG. FRATS DON'T CREATE ARBITRARY BARRIERS— THE BLACK BALL DOESN'T LIMIT MY CHOICE OF FRIENDS. FRATS DO NOT
CAUSE CONFORMITY IN THOUGHT PATTERNS. AFTER ALL, IF MY BROTHERS AND I AGREE THAT A LOSER IS A LOSER, WE
DON'T LOOK DOWN ON INDEPENDENTS— MOST OF ‘EM DON'T THINK ANYWAY. PRETTY GOOD INDICATION THAT A FRATERNITY MEMBER WOULDN'T LIKE
‘EM EITHER. THERE ARE ACTUALLY A LOT OF ‘EM WE’D LIKE TO HAVE DOWN AT THE HOUSE. WHATS THIS ABOUT
FRATERNITY DEMANDS INHIBITING REAL INVOLVEMENT IN STUDIES? HELL, WE ENCOURAGE SCHOLARSHIP. WE KNOW THAT IF A GUY DOESN'T MAKE THE
GRADE, HE WON'T BE AROUND TO HELP US NEXT YEAR! WHATS AN ALUMNUS GONNA LOOK FORWARD TO WHEN HE COMES
BACK TO DAVIDSON IF HIS FRAT IS GONE? WHAT IS THIS FRATERNITY EVALUATION COMMITTEE ANYWAY? THEY INTEND TO GO SEE
HIS PROFESSORS, BE CURIOUS ABOUTHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

do P TRAINING ) ACADEMIC IT, WHY DID Adlp ACQUAINTANCE ° J PROBLEMS THEY COME HERE With ALL THE BROTHERS,
— (Like THE LIBRARY— in THE FIRST f A Fresh AN'S ANS THE OATH? — HEL, PLACE? y EDUMATION Is
tf 1F HE'S THAT much OF Z PROBABLN OUR FIRST A FLY, HE SHOULDN'T HAVE COME To DAVIDSON AT ALL.
Y —HE SHOULD HAVE GONE STRAIGHT To COLLEGE! ——_ Walimarke 65

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Angry Alumnus Centers Fire On Bus-ter Ramberg | 'Small But Significant’

Dear Editor:

My February 19th DAVIDSONIAN arrived today, bearing Associate Editor Ramberg's catchy but purblind comments re “hired hardwood heroes.” Possessing enviable
wisdom, writer Ramberg has resolved a perplexing and long-standing problem for me: by his definition, anyone who receives financial aid
during college is a “Professional” — some are professional athletes and some are professional academicians, although all are students.

Now, I had always felt just a little inferior to scholarship students, since they had already achieved a degree of
success in life by the time they entered college sufficient to warrant someone's (be it Baker, Danforth or the Wildcat
Club) putting out money for their education. They had already proven themselves and, alas, I cowered in the corners of
insecurity, paying my own tuition—on probation, as it were, trying to prove what the “Professionals” had already shown, that I
was worthy of a Davidson education. But Hallelujah. Peter Ney be praised. Sometime Editor Ramberg has loosed my bonds of
insecurity: his frowning on “Professionals” in college students has reassured me that us average guys wuz right all along.

As I read his column again (I’ve even been known to read Bill Buckley twice), I am a little disturbed
by the possibility that he may actually condone professional academicians (i.e. academic scholarship) while condemning recognition in other areas of
superiority. Maybe I don’t read him so good (he will be the first to seek that outlet); or maybe there
were too many exhaust fumes at the back of the bus that day. Or maybe (is it possible?) Bus-ter Ramberg
really believes scholarship funds should be limited to Merit Scholars with perfect Sunday School attendance records. “Ho-hum, Chalmers: how much
for an Honor Society President from Reedy Fork?”

Charles M. Hassell, Jr.
Class of '54

Wildcats Abroad Send Comments From Germany

Dear Editor:

Now as the winter semester in Marburg is almost over, I feel it is possible to give a fairly complete
description of a student's life in Germany. The first thing that impressed me as I came to Marburg was the
“academic freedom.” This is something different from the concept of academic freedom in America. German “academic freedom” means not only
freedom of thought, but also freedom of action on the part of both students and teachers. Although the student is
limited as to the number of semester hours he can register for (between 4 and 50), he is not compelled
to attend a single class. Forcing a professor to do something against his will is absolutely unheard of in West
Germany.

This freedom comes as somewhat of a shock to the German students as well. The Gymnasium, more or less a
state-run prep school, makes even Davidson look like a bastion of liberty. Despite this difference, the problems of adjustment are
usually solved rather quickly. The fact that a German pupil receives a more intensive education than an American could have
a great deal to do with this. A student who has come out of a modern language Gymnasium, for example,
has already had eight years of English, six of Latin, and two of calculus, as well as physics and chemistry.

Contrary to what many Americans believe (and to what I thought before I came here), the German university is not
just a training center for specialists. A student must have a major and two minors. In addition, he must pass
the “Philosophicum,” an exam made up of sections on philosophy, political science, education, and psychology. He spends more time studying
each of these subjects than a Davidson student does on his minor. Still, in the battle between studying and freedom,
freedom usually wins out.

The recreation program at Marburg is broad, offering courses from judo to gliding. However, perhaps the most popular form of
recreation (next to those just up the road) is politics. This interest is mirrored in the constant fights between the
student newspapers. Three of these, all monthlies, are published in Marburg, and there are others which have nation-wide circulation. Of
the Marburg papers, two are center-left (one of these is supported by compulsory subscription) and one is radical-right. The latter
does everything short of calling itself Nazi. (It made no objection when the official university paper accidentally printed “national socialism”
instead of “nationalism” in an article about it.) It has also accused the mayoress of the “Studentendorf” (the largest dormitory,
with around 800 students) of being a very rosy red. Although there are no communist groups, the left wing of
the SPD student organization keeps in contact with the comrades to the East. The German student papers often make even
THE DAVIDSONIAN look dull.

I hope this letter has been informative and perhaps has cleared up a few misconceptions about Germany in general and
German students in particular.

Tom Vinson,
Marburg, Germany

Blalock

Dear Editor:

It has been suggested to me that some of your readers are probably wondering, “Why does one want to study
in Europe?” To me, there are several compelling reasons. These will be, of course, completely inconsequential to some. The two
most obvious reasons are the opportunities to travel and to become intimate with a foreign language. . . .

Another reason is that the life at a German University is a very pleasant one. When given a chance, the
students are very friendly and one can easily form valuable friendships. The life is unhurried, uncluttered, and spiced with such
pleasantries as concerts, plays, feasts, or just plain conversation in a “Bierkeller.” The familiar American stress and strain is lacking.
The lone reason for loss of sleep is that one stayed out too late celebrating (almost anything is sufficient reason
for celebrating). One must also study, but there is ample time for both studying and socializing. For the interested student,
there are great opportunities for study. The study of the Reformation becomes more exciting when one can see some of
the very halls Luther and Zwingli debated in. When one sees the many reminders of the Middle Ages left around
Marburg, History is suddenly easier to understand and to remember. Aside from that, one is free to study that which
interests him, and the facilities for such study are enormous. That means of course that one is also free not
to study, but if one studies only because he is compelled, he is likely to learn little anyway. The Germans
seem to have recognized this fact and incorporated it into their University system.

Bunky Blalock
Marburg, Germany

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

Discriminatory Clauses:
By CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Eventually the current hassle over the role of fraternities on this campus will subside, probably leaving those venerable institutions to
continue to play an important role in campus social life. If such is the case, it will be necessary for
those with authority on the Hill to force several of the houses to make small but significant changes in their
membership requirements. Events have been moving in this direction ever since the Trustees entered the Twentieth Century on May 17,
1962, and freed the college’s admission policy from racial restrictions. Today the number of Negro students in attendance is four.
Surely it will grow much larger.

During a question session in chapel November 3, 1963, President D. Grier Martin said that the college “could bring to
bear almost any force it wished” in the matter of restrictive membership. But, he allowed, “I don’t see much prospect
in the near future that any action will be taken.” The time is no sense in waiting while the number
of students ineligible for fraternity membership steadily mounts to embarrassing heights. Prompt action is especially important because it takes as
much as four years for some national fraternities to alter their constitutions.

Last week the University of North Carolina Faculty Council took a first halting step toward banning discriminatory membership requirements of
Carolina fraternity chapters. The professors set Sept. 1, 1966 as the date by which fraternities must drop national or local
requirements that bar pledging or initiating any University student because of his race, creed or national origin. The Carolina policy
allows chapters to get “Waivers” from their respective national fraternities to satisfy the University requirement.

The waiver is an evasive device that most fraternities have developed since 1952, when the Human Rights Committee at the
University of Wisconsin told its fraternities that discriminatory membership requirements must go. The committee gave Wisconsin chapters until 1960 to
change their ways. The fraternity subterfuges that the Wisconsin Human Rights Committee has discovered over the past decade stand as
strong reasons to believe that an anti-discriminatory clauses policy that can be satisfied by waivers will not be sufficient to
stop discrimination. Perhaps Carolina will learn Wisconsin’s lesson and beef up its rules.

The Wisconsin committee has found several ways that student-members of a fraternity can be prevented from selecting members without regard
to race, color or creed:
1) Alumni participate in voting on new members.
2) Any alumni member may object to a person proposed for membership and the case may be decided against the
wishes of the local chapter.
3) The names of pledges must be approved by national officers before initiation.

Under the regulations effective in 1968, fraternities will be required to submit two statements to the rights committee.

CERTIFICATE 1
“We certify that there are no provisions in the national or local constitution, by-laws, ritual, or any other controlling rules
of which require the student membership to refrain from considering for membership, pledging, electing, or initiating any students to membership
on account of race, color, creed, or national origin.
“We further certify that there are no provisions in any of the above which indicate or imply that any person
should be considered socially or personally unacceptable as a member because of his race... .”

The second certificate to be required of Wisconsin chapters will assure that student freedom to choose members will not be
restricted by national officers, alumni, advisers, or others from off campus through exclusive privileges of recommendation, approval privileges, or veto
power.

The four professors and three students who comprise the University of Wisconsin Human Rights Committee are hopeful that the new
set of regulations will be sufficient to the task of ending discrimination. The faculty of the University of North Carolina
has made a start toward ending fraternity discrimination at that school. How about it, Davidson?
