FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965

By KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

If Davidson students are any warmer this winter than they were last, they have Grover C. Meetze, director of the college's physical plant, to thank. Meetze is in charge of the renovation of the college steam plant, a $175,000 project which began last spring and is now nearing completion.

“We're really happy with the new system,” said Meetze in an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. “It's much more efficient and less expensive from the standpoint of personnel.” Meetze said that two main changes have been made: the replacement of two coal boilers with gas boilers, along with the renovation of an existing gas boiler; and the construction of a new maintenance and engineering shop as an addition to the old steam plant. A new slate roof was also added to the old steam plant. The two new boilers each cost about $30,000. All of the boilers are provided with a new, centrally-controlled “chemical-feed system.” This system supplements the old water-softener by removing harmful ions from the water that passes into the boilers. The entire system of three boilers can furnish 60,000 pounds of steam per month, an amount which provides a “100 per cent stand-by” over the average of 30,000 pounds per month the college uses during the winter. The system heats all the major buildings on campus except Dana Science Hall and the church. Meetze noted that the boilers

A mock United Nations Assembly to be held at Duke in February was the main topic of discussion at the Student Council meeting Monday night. Bill Council announced that the eighth annual Middle South United Nations Model General Assembly will be held at Duke Feb. 9-12. Davidson has been invited to attend and can send four delegates. The delegates will assume the roles of ambassadors from the countries they choose to represent. Several committees will be formed to discuss items on which action has been considered by the UN so that source material and voting records will be available for reference purposes. Items on the tentative agenda include discussion of current conditions in countries such as Yemen, Korea, Viet Nam and the Dominican Republic, discussion of the World Trade Conference and discussion of the economic consequences of dis-

IXES BLUES, FOLK SONGS
Josh Jr. Follows Father

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

One of the greatest folk singers of our time, Josh White, has the following and the international acclaim to make anyone connected with him share in some part of his glory. Anyone, you think, who would give up a billing at the top of the ladder for a chance of his own success in show business would have to be a fool. But you are the fool if you find yourself believing Josh White Jr. when he tells you that he’ll never be able to follow his father in greatness. Young Josh is already great. He proved that to all who heard him in the Union Tuesday night. He already has the style of his father captured in his guitar—the throb, the low-down blues, the delicacy, the whine and the twang. He can make you sway to his rendition of “Down and Out” or keep you absolutely still, straining with the solid blues feeling of his own “Baby, Baby, Baby, Baby.” But by his own admission, he is not trying to follow in his father’s footsteps, even though no one really listens to him when he says that “They are much too big for me to fill.” Besides the soul-blues type of singing his father became famous for, Josh often switches into a faster, more modern folk number, or he simply improvises on the guitar when the mood strikes him. Even though he is only 24, Josh is scarcely a newcomer to the stage. He has been playing the guitar since he was four, and up to 1961 he accompanied his father on tour and on some albums. But Josh insists he has to make it on his own, and the only way to do that is to stop being the son of Josh White and start being Josh White Jr., singer and guitarist. Even with his talent and contacts it hasn’t been easy. In the four years since he’s been on his own Josh has cut four singles and one album by himself. All have caught on in “isolated spots” but he is still waiting for the one that will ride him to the top. After appearing at Davidson, Josh went back to N. C. State (where he also played Sunday) for a concert on Thursday.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
INTERIOR OF NEW STEAM PLANT
Maybe The Pipes Will Stop Shaking Soon

Junior Year In Hawaii Available To Students

The East-West Center at the University of Hawaii is offering a junior year program in Asian Studies in Honolulu. Dr. Paul Marrotte, a member of the foreign studies committee, said this program was “a fabulous opportunity for a good student interested in either the Chinese or Japanese language and culture.” Dr. Marrotte encouraged any sophomore or freshman who has already decided on a professional career in Asian affairs to consider entrance into this program. The East-West Center program attempts to promote educational and cultural interchange between Asia and the United States. The program was designed especially for small liberal arts colleges that don’t offer Chinese or Japanese. The 30 students who are accepted into this highly competitive program will receive a complete grant of almost $5,000 to provide for tuition, food, lodging and transportation. They will study either Japanese or Chinese at the University of Hawaii during the summer between their sophomore and junior years. This summer course will be the equivalent of two full years of language study. During their junior year the students will continue their study of a language, together with one related Asian area course and one or two electives. The 10 top students will receive further grants and will spend their next summer studying in either Taipei or Tokyo. The East-West Center also provides the opportunity for 100 American students to pursue graduate studies in Asian languages and affairs on complete scholarships. These students will live with other students from 24 Asian-Pacific countries in an international atmosphere at the University of Hawaii.

Vespers To Feature Folk Music, Guitars

The emphasis of Sunday's Vespers service will be folk music, and the sermon will be delivered by the Rev. Will H. Terry, college chaplain. Organist Wilmer Welsh will improvise folk hymns for the prelude and the benediction. The call to worship is a Negro spiritual, “Let Us Break Bread Together.” The Male Chorus will present an old Southern religious anthem entitled “Wondrous Love” and will be accompanied by Chip Vogan and David Fore on guitars. Since this will be the fifth Sunday no faculty homes will be open to student visitors Sunday evening.

Work Will Begin On Phones Nov. 15

Additional telephones will be placed in several dormitories on campus beginning Nov. 15, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories. Mrs. Nicholls also pointed out that a public telephone will be placed in the hallway in the south wing of the College Union. THE DAVIDSONIAN inadvertently reported that the work would begin Nov. 5. The editors regret this error.

Council proposed the allocation of $20 from the Student Council budget for the purpose of reserving places for four delegates, since the deadline for reservations is Oct. 30. The proposal was passed unanimously. Any student interested in attending the mock UN Assembly is asked to contact John Thomas as soon as possible.

QUESTIONNAIRES

Questionnaires were distributed to council members to be given in turn to the heads of various campus clubs and organizations. The questionnaires give the groups a chance to state their purpose and activities on campus as required by the Student Body Regulations. These forms are usually distributed in the spring, but Council decided to wait until fall since many of the clubs had not yet elected their slate of officers. The overall Student Council platform was discussed briefly, and Council asked if anyone had anythingHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

pertinent to report on in his particular area of concern. No one volunteered. Council urged every member to get down to work on his topic.

ATHLETIC COUNCIL

Paul Marion and Sonny Graves were elected over eight other candidates to fill the two open positions on the Athletic Council. They will serve as student body representatives to the faculty committee which discusses the use of athletic funds and passes on such things as additional tennis courts, more handball courts, and the like.

Dave Powell, freshman advisor, asked that the Council approve the election of Bobby Vagt and Johnny Roe to the two freshman positions on the Campus Social Council. "These boys have worked on the Freshman Social Committee and have shown their willingness to do this kind of work," said Powell. Roe and Vagt were unanimously approved by the Council.

FRESHMAN MEMBER

Bayard Miller, newly elected president of the Freshman Council, was introduced to the Council. He will attend the Student Council meetings for the rest of the year as a non-voting member.

Bill Council emphasized the rule concerning absenteeism from Student Council meetings. The rule states that any member absent from three consecutive meetings or any six meetings during the term will be dropped from the Council. Absent from the meeting was Ben Cannon.

Social Council Sets Movies And Combo

The Social Council plans to show four horror movies in the Union Saturday but will return to normal social events on Nov. 6. The horror movies will be shown in the Morrison Room of the Union beginning at 8 p.m. Saturday and no admission will be charged. "Hidden Room of a Thousand Terrors," "Diary of a Madman," "Curse of the Cat People," and "Mark of The Vampire" will be shown to those lovers of sadistic pleasure who show up.

The Social Council will return to more conventional entertainment on Nov. 6. "The Fabulous Five" will play for a combo party in the basement of Chambers from 7:30 p.m. until 11:30.

ROTC drill period Tuesday afternoon was replaced by a demonstration conducted by Company A, Third Special Forces Group from Fort Bragg. The 12-man detachment used the woods behind the soccer field as the site for their presentation which was separated into six displays.

This Special Forces "A" detachment, consisting of two commissioned officers and 10 non-commissioned officers, had just returned from Ethiopia where they assisted in the training of that country’s army. Captain John P. Sweeney was in charge of the company which arrived by bus Saturday afternoon and departed early Wednesday morning.

The first of the six displays was an exhibit of Special Forces equipment. One demonstrator was dressed in the typical outfit of a jungle paratrooper. Also shown was the apparatus employed by Special Forces in the Arctic and in mountainous regions. The demolition display contained not only specially constructed equipment, but also many "homemade" devices. The "Dirty Trick Department" made use of a number of demolition devices which could be set off by a person while performing such routine tasks as opening a door.

Two other displays dealt specifically with the survival of Special Forces groups. The use of traps and snares enables Special Forces personnel to catch anything from a field mouse to a bear. Food is no problem because the Special Forces can prepare and eat everything that "walks, crawls, swims, flies or grows from the soil," with few exceptions. Several different types of traps and snares were built by the company from materials found in the area.

The weapons exhibition dealt explicitly with submachine guns from various countries. On display were submachine guns from Germany, Denmark, France, Sweden, Israel, and the U.S.S.R. as well as the U.S. Army's Thompson submachine gun. Of particular interest was a Viet Cong crudely made rifle with a floating firing pin.

The final display was an explanation of the sky hook and SCUBA techniques. The use of the sky hook provides a high-speed method of picking up men and materiel in remote areas where landing is impossible. A demonstrator was outfitted in sky hook gear. Also on display was a mannequin dressed in SCUBA equipment. Davidson ROTC cadets attended the hour-long demonstration by companies.

Professor Beaty Shows Progress

Professor Ernest A. Beaty, who suffered a severe heart attack in the latter part of August, is "more like his cheerful self," according to Dr. J. Alexander McGeachy. After returning to his home two weeks ago, Professor Beaty has been constantly improving and is now able to move about. However, on his doctor's advice, he may see only a limited number of visitors at the present time. Professor Beaty hopes to pick up a few classes next semester, although no definite plans have been made.

Steam Plant Changes Nearly Complete

The outside of the new maintenance shop has been completed but the inside still needs some work. The coal bins for the oil boilers have been cleaned and sandblasted and will provide additional space for the shop. The campus utilities section will use the new shop. The old shop, located across the street from the laundry, will be left for woodworking.

When asked if he expected any trouble from the new system, Meetze commented: "We expect the normal break-in difficulties; we're anxious to get some real cold weather so we can check them out. But, all in all, we expect the new system to be a great improvement over the former one."

Thirteen seniors have been designated Distinguished Military Students for 1965-66, the ROTC Department announced recently. The department also announced that five freshmen and two juniors had been awarded ROTC Scholarships under the ROTC Vitalization Act of 1964.

The 13 Distinguished Military Students are: Jerry Blackstock, Bob Bryan, Jamie Bryant, Bill Burch, Frank Gibbes, Pack Hindsley, Jim Hollandsworth, Bill McGuire, Jim McNab, Dave Powell, Steve Smith, Dave Sprinkle, and Jim Stokes.

The freshmen scholarship winners are Bob Apgar, David Fore, George House, Garee Thomas, and Tom Scovile. The juniors are Norman Cole and Buzzy Parker. The scholarships will pay tuition, fees, books, and laboratory expenses, in addition to $50 per month while the student holds the scholarship. During summer camp, the amount is increased to $120.60 per month.

Freshman Council Plans For Field Day

The Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, to be held Nov. 4, was the major discussion topic at Wednesday's regular meeting of the Freshman Council. Competition will be held in volleyball, basketball, track, and tug-of-war; and members of freshmen and varsity athletic teams are eligible. Freshmen are encouraged to sign up at the Union desk for the Field Day, of which Tom O’Brien is the freshman coordinator.

The only other important announcement at the meeting was that pledging will definitely take place during the Christmas vacation rather than after classes resume.

Rides Now Available To Walking Freshmen

The Freshman Transportation Committee, operating under the direction of Freshmen Blake Anderson and Bobby Vagt, is attempting to solve the transportation problem for the freshmen. In the past, a fraternity brother might be able to provide a ride, but with delayed rush and the new rush regulations, the freshman has found himself walking much more than riding.

This new committee presents a very workable solution for this problem. It presently does not have funds at its disposal, but it does arrange rides, coordinate bus, train, and plane schedules, and help in any other way. The "office hours" for the FTC are from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. Monday through Friday in the Union lobby. Conversations in the "office" may concern chartering a bus or the visitor may be an upperclassman offering a ride to someone. The committee members commented that full advantage is not being taken of the service offered and emphasized the fact that no one has been turned away.

BAYARD MILLER Heads Freshman Council