COLLEGE ORGANIZES RESCUE SQUAD (See Page Four) VOL. LIV. ATTACKS KU KLUX KLAN Weltner Talks, Faces Issues By TED GLUSMAN and DAVID GINN Davidsonian Feature Writers The news photographer’s lights were set up Monday in chapel, and a larger-than-usual battery of microphones occupied the rostrum. The word spread quickly, and when Will Jackson got up to introduce him, there were few in the audience who were unaware that Charles L. Weltner, Democratic representative from Georgia, was paying a visit. There were whispered conversations among the more politically oriented students. No one seemed to be neutral about this man, and the why of all this controversy was known before he began to speak. The young congressman was the only Southerner to vote “yea” on the civil rights bill, and when named to the House Committee on Un-American Activities, he shocked Capitol Hill by suggesting and backing an open investigation of the Ku Klux Klan. We settled back last Monday, anxious to hear something we could argue about from this congressional non-conformist. But those of us who heard him only in chapel were disappointed.

BLAH TOPIC Weltner's topic was that most popular and most described of all stereotypes, the educated man. What he had to say was said well, and it was interesting, though it has been said before. He dealt mainly with the age-old requirement of the educated man, that he not be overly specialized. The only political theme Weltner touched in his talk was Hubert Humphrey. Weltner bears a great respect for Humphrey, and he made that fact abundantly clear. One student, in fact, summed up Weltner's talk in his own mind in three words: “I Like Hubie.” But the jokes were good (and for the most part new), sometimes all too rare in such speakers, so we listened. A number of students followed him to the Union for a “coffee hour.” Those who did got what we expected in chapel, a look at some of the issues that have made this man so controversial.

KKK FIRST The KKK, of course, came first. Weltner feels that the majority of his constituents would favor the investigation he proposes, and he himself obviously feels very deeply on the subject. “Its strength is in its secrecy,” he stated. His idea is to let “plain truth combat this secrecy. We have a right to know who these people are,” he added. After speaking briefly on several student questions, including the so-called ‘Speaker Ban Law’ (he sees no need in it), Weltner spent the majority of his time on the civil rights issue. His constituents are probably largely against this one, he felt, but Republican opposition in his area has been a great help to the Democratic party. The Democrats have used this issue, according to Weltner, to become a more national party, and thereby a more popular one.

LAWS NOT ANSWER In regard to new civil rights legislation, Weltner feels that what is needed is stronger enforcement of previous laws, not passage of new ones. Another helpful factor, he said, would be a “better attitude of the people.” Pressing situations, such as that in Selma, Ala., would be solved, or could be solved, opined Weltner, if all outsiders would leave, including Dr. Martin Luther King—one of Weltner's Atlanta constituents. Federal statutes should then be “implemented and rigorously enforced.” The boyish, likable congressman impresses his listeners as a young man on the move. He has very definite views on major issues and is willing to fight for his beliefs. Whether one agrees with the man’s ideas or not, his aggressive, emphatic personality demands admiration.

‘CATS FACE CADETS, THEN TOURNAMENT The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965 REP. CHARLES WELTNER Georgian Pushes Civil Rights Buttrick Will Speak At Vespers Sunday night vespers will feature the Reverend George A. Buttrick, former Preacher to the University, Harvard University. Buttrick, a native of Seaham Harbor, Northumberland, England, and a graduate of Lancaster Independent College, Manchester and Victoria University, had held pastorates in Illinois, Vermont, and New York State, before becoming minister of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York City, from 1960 until 1961. Dr. Buttrick has been Professor of Homiletics at Garrett Theological School, Northwestern University and is presently visiting Professor of Religion at Agnes Scott College. In addition to his professorships and pastorates he has written many books including So We Believe, So We Pray, Faith and Education, Sermons Preached In a University Church, Biblical Thought and the Secular University. He is general editor of the Interpreter’s Bible and editor of the Interpreter’s Dictionary. Besides being a former vespers speaker, Dr. Buttrick has been both an Otts Lecturer and a Reynolds Lecturer at Davidson College.

ATTENTION! DAVIDSONIAN reporters will meet in the Green Room of the College Union at 9:30 p.m. Sunday. All reporters and feature writers are requested to attend. In addition, anyone—freshmen or upperclassmen—interested in writing for THE DAVIDSONIAN news team should attend.

Campus Groups Fight Law Davidson’s AAUP chapter and the student “Speaker-Ban” committee continued their efforts this week in calling for a repeal of the North Carolina Communist “Gag Law.” On Monday of last week an editorial response from the “Speaker-Ban” Committee of the local AAUP was aired on WBT radio and WBT in Charlotte. The station had supported the “gag law” in an editorial on the air in December. Taking advantage of the station’s invitation for listener response, the Davidson committee gave its rebuttal, in which the professors contended that the law is “misguided—even if well-intended legislation.” Letters from the public concerning the committee's stand have shown approval of the move for repeal, according to Dr. Richard E. Gift, spokesman for the AAUP group. The committee is also beginning to receive response to a letter sent to each AAUP chapter in North Carolina. Jim Waldron, organizer of the seven-man student committee which has been sanctioned by the local AAUP, stated that his group had drawn up a bill to be presented at the State Student Legislature in Raleigh this weekend. Tom Scott, who along with Bill Council and Chuck Matthews is attending the assembly, will sponsor the bill for the student committee. Seven campus groups or individuals so far have announced their opposition to the law: President D. Grier Martin, AAUP, the Young Republican Club, the college faculty, the student “Speaker-Ban” committee, Student Council, THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Members of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee generally agreed this week that changes will be recommended in the group’s report which is due by March 1. Meeting twice during the week, the committee began determining the actual contents of the long-awaited report. Prior to this week, all discussion has been speculative: suggestions have ranged from maintaining the status quo to organizing eating clubs to delayed rush, even to abolishing fraternities. The committee has held 11 meetings since its formation in December. Robert Jones, assistant dean of students, explained that the committee, after accepting reports and students’ opinions, has now closed its doors to deliberate and formulate its opinion and make its final recommendations. This, he said, is to give the committee members an opportunity to make their final opinions and express freely their convictions without pressure. Bob Young, assistant director of admissions, commented that no specific suggestions or motions have been made, and in these final meetings they hoped to keep personalities out of the situation and avoid “persecution by peers” in consolidating the final report.

PROBLEM OF DEGREE Ed Haselden, president of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, feels that the committee may or may not suggest changes in the fraternity system, and that the problem could be one of degree between the school’s obligation to the fraternity system. Action will be taken to remedy the problem in either or both spheres. Young, a former fraternity member, sees grave shortcomings in the fraternity system in retrospect, and feels that a change is definitely needed in the system. He feels that fraternities produce a dichotomy among the student body. Bill Council, a member of the committee, definitely expects a change to be recommended. One possibility he elaborated on would be no rush next year. After that each class would be divided into twelve groups and assigned to each fraternity. This would continue and after three years the system would have evolved into an eating-club arrangement.

NOTHING DEFINITE The consensus among members of the committee is that there will be some changes recommended, but no definite proposals were suggested. Young pointed out that each member of the committee will have the opportunity of drafting a minority report if he is in disagreement with the majority recommendations. The committee itself has no official authority and as a Student Council committee will make its report to that body, which in turn can...Submit recommendations to the faculty's Committee on Fraternities and Social Life. The committee makes its report on March 1, but it may continue functioning after that time to further study the situation.

NEWS REPORT

In an article in The Charlotte Observer Sunday morning, Jones is quoted as expressing his belief that certain changes in the present fraternity system would be recommended to the faculty. Many students and alumni were surprised at the suddenness of the article and its appearance in The Charlotte Observer. Jones attributed the appearance of the report to a letter drafted and sent by the committee to the national secretaries of the Davidson fraternities. Jones explained that the Kappa Sigma national secretary re- (Continued on Page Six)

BOB YOUNG
RICK YOUNG
(See Page Five)

NUMBER SEVENTEEN

“Report Will Likely Urge Changes
Committee’s Findings Expected By March 1”

IFC President
Satiric Revue Planned

A Preview

When it played London, New York, Chicago and San Francisco, Beyond The Fringe was in each case the hottest ticket in town, and although it was as British as marmalade and as irreverent as a striptease, it has clocked more laughs than anything on or off Broadway in many a season. The IFC is bringing the shaggy-haired pundits and their hilarious contemporary satirical revue to Davidson on March 6. Beyond the Fringe has been called “the sharpest and most outrageously funny set of satirical sketches in years,” and the New York reviewers termed it “uproarious,” “side-splitting,” and “brilliant.” Fringe’s authors are typed as the “neo-Angry Young Men,” “the sly and literate satirists” who attack much of what their predecessors attacked, but with acid wit and exuberant ridicule.

Council Votes Change In Election Procedure

Student Council Monday night changed some elections procedures and appointed an elections committee. Several additional proposed changes were defeated. In last year’s election, each candidate for student body president was allowed 500 legal-sized mimeographed copies of his election platform to distribute among the students, and other candidates were allowed 200 copies. The council voted Monday to adjust the number of copies allowed candidates for various offices. Candidates for student body president will still be allowed 500 copies, while candidates for other student body offices will be allowed 250 each. Candidates for president of the YMCA will be allowed 400, and those for Honor Court, freshman advisor, Student Council class positions, and president of the College Union will be allowed 50 copies each. The order of elections was also changed. Previously, the following order was pursued on subsequent days: (1) student body officers; (2) Honor Court; (3) YMCA president; (4) freshman advisor, publications editors, president of the College Union, and cheerleaders; and (5) Student Council. This order was changed as follows: (1) student body officers, Honor Court, and publications editors, (2) cheerleaders and president of the College Union, (3) freshman advisor and president of the YMCA, and (4) Student Council. Among defeated motions were one requiring a one-dollar registration fee to defray costs of elections and one allowing candidates for student body offices to use posters in their campaigns. Tabled until next meeting was a motion to have no YMCA speech in assembly during election week this year. Fred Sackett was the unanimous choice of the council to chair the Elections Committee. Members of the committee—one senior from each of the 12 fraternities and four independents—are David Graham, David Pfhol, Bill Wilson, John Curry, Bill Ross, Steve Bunch, Art Ross, Harold Kernodle, Lewis Norman, Bill Jacobs, Pete Crow, Mike Williams, Bob Bethel, Vernon Anderson, Pat Fisher, and John Hutcheson.

VIRGINIA NASH
By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

An uninhibited and incisive approach to the essence of sexual mores captured for Dr. Ethel Nash this week the usually elusive attention of the Davidson audience. A lecturer at Bowman-Gray Medical School, the initial speaker in the YMCA series on ethics gave the most closely followed and best-attended talks presented this year. In chapel Thursday she discussed the sexual customs and trends in the United States today. In comparing them with those of Scandinavia she actually drew response from the audience, something unheard of in chapel sessions. In all four talks and discussions Wednesday and Thursday, Dr. Nash gave some extremely interesting and valuable information and opinions. Discussing the attitudes towards sex at colleges which she had visited she noted a definite sophistication and knowledge of the subject by the vast majority of students. This could be seen here at Davidson especially in the informal discussions where, for the most part, student reaction and participation was decidedly mature and sincere. Responding to questions, Dr. Nash was specific. Asked about U.S. pornography laws, she replied that she believed pornography should not be banned, as this only makes it more interesting and exciting. If one were allowed free access to it he would become used to it and would not, therefore, seek it. She, in fact, stated that, “A certain amount of looking at pornography is good for all of us at times.” As to such works as the Kama Sutra, only recently allowed in the country, she regards them as healthy if they teach us to become more sexually knowledgeable, for “being a good lover is a learned thing,” and an important one. Dr. Nash said “I would be in favor of legalized abortion on a much larger scale than it is at present,” specifying such causes as the birth of babies who would be really unwanted as being reason enough for abortion. She stated that there are, in a conservative estimation, 1,000,000 illegal abortions in the U.S. every year. This means that one out of every 50 or 60 women of child-bearing age have an abortion every year, or that the illegal abortion rate is approximately equal to the number of live births in the country. This situation, she feels, is foolish and impractical. Questioned about the earlier maturity of youth today and its relation to pre-marital intercourse and younger marriages, she said that there was indeed more pre-marital sex, but that there was no real answer to the problem as of yet. Asked if she would favor a trial marriage in cases like this, she replied, “I would favor a trial engagement much more, as nothing could really be told from a trial marriage.” In conclusion, Dr. Nash foresees much reform in laws concerning contraceptives and abortion, great improvements in “the pill,” more understanding on sex in the United States, and a general re-evaluation of sexual values in the near future.

Broadway Revue Scheduled for IFC Weekend

The play was originally written for the 1960 Edinburgh Festival as a fringe revue, by three Oxford and Cambridge undergraduates and a young doctor. The show was expanded to regular length in order to invade London's West End, and from then on the accolades haven't quit pouring in. The current cast includes four young men of English-Canadian-American background, all of whom have played in successful amateur and off-Broadway productions. Robert Cessna appeared first on stage in a Pennsylvania pageant at the age of 14 days, as the Spirit of 1935. He is currently authoring a full-length play called After Wimpole Street, “a surrealistic treatment of erotic love among the old-aged.” Donald Cullen hails from Toronto, and served for some time as co-host and writer of a radio show touted as the “program that dares to be known by bad taste only.” Joel Fabiani gained his experience in the San Francisco Actors Workshop, and his appearances have ranged from Shakespeare to the New York production of The Caretaker, and James Valentine had his longest dramatic run privately impersonating Sherlock Holmes, between the ages of 11 and 14. Actually, Beyond the Fringe is a brilliant satire of England, past, present and future. Wandering through a set made of columns, arches and platforms, the four players impudently and incisively attack “saccharine patriotism, stuffy hypocrisy and glib statesmanship.” Some of the situations are peculiarly British, others are universal. “Bumbling Prime Minister MacMillan” comes under fire, and the young slum parish vicar, meeting his young people on their own terms, says “I think we can use the teenage violence and channel it toward God—get the violence in the churches where it belongs!”

College Trustees Will Meet In May

Because of the October meeting of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, the trustees will not meet in February, as has been the case in the past. They will convene again April 30 for their next regularly scheduled meeting. At the October meeting the principal topic of discussion was the faculty oath, and it is expected that much of the spring meeting will also center around this problem.