FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1965

MOSER USES HIS SCREEN

By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

WAKIES LEARNED TOO WELL

At last the initial shock of this year’s basketball season has worn off and Coach Lefty Driesell’s roundballers have begun
to polish up the young, raw talent that makes up this year’s team. Wake Forest’s Head Coach Jackie Murdock beat
Driesell at his own game last Wednesday. I won't recount the parallel of how Driesell broke in five years ago
with a 65-59 upset of the nationally ranked Deacons; this story has been worn out in the past two weeks.
But think back three years ago, when Fred Hetzel and Company inaugurated their varsity careers with a 76-68 loss to
a powerful Duke team. In less than a month the ’Cats reversed this outcome and beat Duke in the Coliseum.
How? They did it quite a bit like Murdock beat us. Duke was relying on a young and inexperienced pair
of guards, Buzzy Harrison and Denny Ferguson, to get the ball down court. Driesell decided to put a strong press
on these two Dukes instead of Art Heyman and Jeff Mullins, conceding them at least 20 points each. His strategy
worked perfectly. Barry Teague and Don Davidson were able to put pressure on the Blue Devils’ ball handlers and when
they tired or ran into foul trouble, senior Heywood Evans and junior Bill Beerman used their experience (both starters the
year before) to keep up the pressure. Result? Davidson 72, Duke 89.

Murdock’s game plan must have paralleled Driesell’s Duke win perfectly. He pressured the Cats' inexperienced ball handler, Phil Squier, with
his best, Bob Leonard, Wake Forest's All-American candidate. He probably conceded 20 points to both Dick Snyder and Rod Knowles,
and although each bettered this output considerably, Murdock used his team’s experience and their unknown quantity Paul Long, to more
than make up for Snyder and Knowles' achievements — one point more. We meet the Wakies again, Jan 29, on
a neutral court in Greensboro. Experience will no longer be the deciding factor. Squier, who has already gained twice the
poise he showed in the opener, will not be as jittery as the first contest found him. The sophomores will
nearly be battle-scarred veterans by late January. Murdock’s last game plan won't work then. Only a minor miracle can keep
Wake Forest in the game. But January is a long way off and plenty of games separate the 'Cats from
revenge.

NOTES

The most amazing thing this basketball season can ever bring is the brilliant job of scheduling Driesell has done. The
Cats play 22 games — six away from home. Of these six, one is on a neutral court (Wake Forest
at Greensboro) and each of the other teams are played at Davidson or Charlotte as well as in their own
gyms. Of the first 14 games, only two are away from home, VMI and Richmond.

A thousand apologies to Kit Thompson, the sophomore football player I inadvertently left out of last week’s column. Thompson started
five games as a tackle this season. Absolutely no malice was meant toward Thompson, tackles, or his fraternity in leaving
him out.

Someday Furman may come to play Davidson in basketball and not one word will be wasted about Frank Selvy and
his 100 points against Newberry years ago. The latest sportswriter to stumble on to this piece of “hot news” was
Mel Derrick, of the Charlotte Observer. I’ve seen Furman play Davidson in Davidson for four straight years and I have
yet to hear anyone whisper “There’s the C-note man” when Selvy walks into the gym. Frankly, I really don’t think
anyone around here is quite that inane — except maybe Derrick.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Photo by Sproul)

Kittens Crosswhite (40), Spann And O'Neill (L-R) Stand Tall For Teammate

Fiery Freshmen Foil Three Foes

After thrashing Wingate twice and Furman once last week, the undefeated freshman basketball team puts its record on the line
against North Greenville tomorrow night in the preliminary game here at 6:15. On the following Tuesday, the Wildkittens travel to
Duke University for their first real test of the season. Coach Terry Holland said, “We really want to go home
for the holidays with a victory." The Duke game is the big one and the one that will tell just
how good the freshmen are. Last night Wayne Huckle picked up the slack in the attack to lead the ‘Kittens
to a 69-58 win over Wingate Junior College. David Moser added 15 to back up Huckle’s 26 and keep the
yearlings out front in the second half. On Saturday the team had soundly beaten Wingate, 97-61.

Lefty P

By TOMMY COX
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Lefty Driesell’s teams and painters dominated IMAC basketball again this week, as four games were postponed out of the scheduled
six. The action prompted IMAC officials to look to a new offensive against the superior forces of inadequate gymnasium facilities.
They are revising the schedule in an effort to employ the ancient but effective principle of victory, “hit ‘em where
they ain't.” The games that were played for the most part lacked excitement after the opening tip-off. Although they were
hard fought by both sides, the games developed into lackluster runaways. The ATO’s handily trounced

Huckle also starred in that game as he set the game high for rebounds for the season, 14. Between the
two Wingate games the ‘Kittens took a breather as they routed Furman, 102-78. Again it was Huckle, “the Cranberry Flash,”
and Rocky Crosswhite who led the charge with 24 apiece. Coach Holland was not pleased with the performance last night
as several of the boys had off-nights. Big Mike O'Neill hit for 11 and Mike Spann took 8. They had
been averaging 19.3 and 13.3 respectively. Tony Orsbon got 7 in another fine game as the squad's sixth man.the Independent
five, 76-48. Rufus Adair tallied 26 points and controlled both boards in a fine performance for the winners. Geoff Birkhead
added another 19.

By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Rebounding after the opening-game loss to Wake Forest, the Wildcat basketballers take on East Carolina and VMI in important conference
clashes tomorrow and Tuesday nights at Johnston Gym and Lexington, Va., respectively.

Having scouted both teams earlier this season, Assistant Coach Warren Mitchell was much impressed with what he saw in each.
“East Carolina is a much improved team over last year,” Mitchell remarked. “They have more depth, better rebounding, and are
aggressive on defense. The guards this year are also greatly improved." He emphasized also their improved shooting. Leading the Pirates
is a 6-5 senior, Jerry Woodside, a good inside shot and their number one scorer. A 6-2 sophomore, Jimmy Cox,
is their leading outside shooter. Charles Alford, 6-8, and a trio of 6-6 men — senior Bob Kinnard and juniors
Gerald Smith and Dan Pasquariello — provide a great amount of depth as far as height. Mitchell predicted also that
ECC would employ a wide assortment of defenses and would expect to get easy shots off their full court press.

Turning to VMI, Mitchell stated that the Keydets have “perhaps the fastest, quickest guards in the entire conference in John
Kemper and Robin Porter. Both are good drivers, and Kemper handles the ball exceptionally well.” He also remarked that speed
was a key factor in the VMI attack. Charlie Schmaus, a 6-3 senior, has been listed on every all-conference poll
and should lead this year’s team. Jack Hartung, a 6-8 senior, and Bobby Ayres, a junior at 6-4, round out
the probable starting team. Concerning Ayres, Mitchell commented, “his development is really the key to their success.”

The Wildcats’ record against the two opponents is more than respectable. With last year's 86-73 win over VMI in the
conference tournament, the Cats increased their series advantage to 21-16 over the Keydets. The Wildcats have a perfect 4-0 record
against East Carolina, winning last year’s contest, 82-68. Mitchell summarized, “Both teams really want to beat Davidson badly, and on
a given night, I think that either team could beat any team in the conference.”

'Cats Notch Win Over Warriors

Davidson’s youthful Wildcats, gaining poise and confidence with each succeeding game, reeled off their third consecutive victory last night, defeating
Marquette, 73-65, in the face of numerous handicaps. Specifically, at one point in the first half, three starters were sitting
on the bench, burdened with personal fouls. But sophomores and reserves delivered in the clutch to preserve a pressure-packed win
over Al McGuire’s squad.

The winning streak was personally launched by Dick Snyder, who hit a career high mark of 40 points in the
90-48 conquest of Bucknell. The out-manned Bisons were constantly plagued by numerous mistakes and a tight Wildcat defense. Davidson controlled
the boards and then turned the ball over to Snyder, who treated a near-capacity house to an enjoyable evening.

The Furman game marked the ’Cats first league encounter. Sparked by the play of Phil Squier, Davidson rolled to a
90-70 triumph. The senior guard, displaying a hot shooting hand for the first time, tallied 17. With him in the
line-up, the offense was noticeably more disciplined. The Paladins constantly threatened to make a close game of it, but every
rally was snuffed out before any damage could be inflicted.

The real thriller occurred last night in the Coliseum. From the opening tap Marquette applied full-court harassment in an effort
to force turnovers. However, in the early stages of the game the Wildcats beat the press with sharp ball handling
and shooting. Forced to watch his tactics backfire, McGuire spent considerable time on his feet in front of press row,
exhorting his team. On the court, the scramble proceeded at a hectic pace, especially when the Warriors’ coach inserted his
“scrambled eggs” unit. Nevertheless, the ’Cats forged a 57-39 lead at one point on the performances of George Leight, Bobby
Lane, and in the second half, Rodney Knowles. From this point, however, the scrappy Warriors fought back to a mere
six-point deficit. At this time Marquette resorted to a zone defense to slow the game down. To counteract this Davidson
went to a stall, controlling the ball in order to notch the victory.
