Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TAPPÉ Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

With Mixed Emotions

Davidson freshmen are entering the final stages of this year's notoriously drawn-out and dangerously compromised system of rush with mixed
emotions of gleeful anticipation and shattered hopes. Already evaluations are coming from all sides of the fraternity question concerning the
advantages of this complicated system which few people can really comprehend. One consensus of opinion which is fairly certain is
that one year of such a preposterous plan of isolation of the freshman class is enough for all concerned.

Improvement in classroom morale has been noted by many professors. Other observers have pointed out a greater class unity and
much more elan among all freshmen. The most noteworthy aspect of the system so far is the ability to look
at the student for what he is individually, instead of through a facade of pledge pins, sweatshirts and “clothes like
the brothers are wearing.”

But along with the improvements which delayed rush has brought have been the needless complications inherent in the plan which
the faculty fraternity committee stubbornly tendered as the only possible solution between the wishes of the faculty and the Trustees.
Like many others we eagerly await the report of the continuing study by the Social Life Evaluation Committee. We are
certain that the committee members have reflected back on the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee last spring, and we
urge other students to re-examine that report in light of the confused system which fraternity men and freshmen alike have
endured so far.

It would be presumptuous to make any recommendations before the completion of this year’s rush, but we are certain that
definite adjustments will be proposed in the new evaluation committee’s report which is due to be presented to the faculty
in February. THE DAVIDSONIAN continues to maintain wholehearted endorsement of the nine immediate recommendations of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee as
the most reasonable and practical beginning to a solution of the fraternity problem.

These recommendations, which in no way call for the abolition of fraternities on the Davidson campus, were supported by 11
of the 12 members of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee and basically called for a moratorium on rush for this year.
Too many times lessons are learned the hard way. The inevitably bitter end of this year’s confusion cannot come too
soon.

Sojourn Of The Bircher

The sojourn on campus this week of John Rousselot, national director of public relations for the John Birch Society, was
an articulate exposition of right-wing ideology which is rarely seen at Davidson. Rousselot’s stay on campus—all of four hours long—was
hardly enough time to satisfy any well-meaning critic of the JBS, but it was a welcomed departure from the lamentable
conservative spokesmen we sometimes see. Drawing the largest number of listeners this year to the after-chapel coffee hour, the Bircher
politely—though not always completely—answered even the most poisoned questions.

So the campus which hosted a Communist and an atheist two years ago has seen the other extreme slip in
and out with hardly anything to resemble the fanfare and repercussions of the visitors two years ago.

Keep On Fighting, Men

Amidst the verbal barrages being leveled at Davidson’s ROTC program, we would like to commend the military science department for
some recent changes which were made following a student opinion survey of last spring. As reported in this week’s DAVIDSONIAN,
many of the changes involved adjustments in the Tuesday afternoon drill schedule. Other alterations in classroom instruction and testing clearly
indicate a positive interest in the basement of Belk dormitory towards strengthening the ROTC program on campus. Col. Frederick B.
Outlaw and his staff warrant every recognition for these long-needed changes that have finally been effected. Davidson is fortunate to
have such men who are willing to seriously consider the evaluations of students.

However, certain questions remain to be answered—in words and deeds—by the college administration as to the requirement of two years
of military science for all Davidson students. The action by the ROTC department evidences its concern for the betterment of
its position on campus. But its compulsory status is still distasteful and remains to be rectified by the administration—not the
ROTC department. The obvious success of serious student evaluation in this instance should not be overlooked either. May the college
be willing to accept this lesson from Army intelligence and apply it with vigor.

Look, Ma - Cavities

As if we didn’t have enough problems, there is always someone like Dr. Doran D. Zinner who makes life more
complicated. He is a University of Miami dentist-microbiologist who says that tooth decay is a very contagious disease and has
little or nothing to do with the number of candy bars you eat or the number of dental cavities your
parents had. “For many years we thought of tooth decay as hereditary,” he said. “But now we know that if
an individual does not have a certain type of bacteria in his mouth, he will not get cavities.” Zinner and
four colleagues have been studying this abysmal problem for years and they have reached the conclusion that decay bacteria can
be transmitted only by direct contact.

The implications involved here might not throw the world into turmoil, but they certainly have the potential to affect our
way of life. The fact that hits an exposed nerve is that the most effective way these bacteria can be
“transmitted by direct contact” is by kissing, but Zinner admits, “This is not going to stop kissing.” We most surely
agree and predict that no disease in history will be knowingly spread with such pleasure. In fact, a whole new
approach to identifying boy-girl relationships could arise from this. No longer will a girl say, “I have his pin.” She
will proudly declare, “I have his cavities.” —The Daily Tar Heel

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE

Managing Editors
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK

News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Photographer
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU BRILL
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON

Advertising Manager
BILL WATSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Mike Bates, Craig Wilson, John Bailey, Rob Powell, Bill Graham, Mike Powell, Jim Cooley, Kent Gladstone, Ted
Winter, Robbie Hooker, Bill Seigler, Ed Embree, John Williams, Kern Parker, Cameron Ferguson, Charles Eakes, Doug Crisp, Mike Mooty, Joel
Keys, Yates Faison, Bob Reid, Cliff Duke, Bill Richmond, K. D. Weeks, Don Sewell, Steve Brown, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen,
Bob Schofield, John Wessell.

Greek ‘Pi’ In The Sky

EDITOR CLOSE-UP By TOM CRAIG Davidsonian Associate Editor

A CHALLENGE

Davidson has her Self-Study now, and there is no denying that some very exciting proposals were made in the 257-page
report. In general, the recommendations made by each committee seem both feasible and sound. There is some evidence of inter-professorial
and inter-departmental log-rolling reflected in several committee reports. Several of the recommendations seem trite and not important enough to be
considered as recommendations per se. (For example, one group recommends that directional signs be placed throughout the library.)

It will take many more millions than Davidson has or currently has plans to get to put the best of
these recommendations into effect. However, the Report does give the College a set of guidelines for greatness. It collects and
puts on paper the hopes and dreams of the seldom-recognized but efficient departments. Davidson has her Self-Study, and she will
do well to consider every proposal thoroughly and open-mindedly. She cannot afford to pigeon-hole even one without proper consideration if
she intends to achieve national prominence several years hence.

This prominence is possible; the guidelines are drawn.

PLEASE, MISTER PEARMAN

For long years, South Carolina has made available to her motorists an optional thin aluminum wallet-sized photo metal drivers license.
This plate has become indispensable.able to some residents of the Palmetto State. When Silas Pearman, new chief of the department,
announced recently that the metal licenses had to go to be replaced by paper ones bearing a color photo of
the driver, moans arose from over the state. One such moan was from Ed McGrath, columnist for the Spartanburg Journal:

OF ‘PUNCH’ Briton Praises Davidson

(Editor’s Note: The following remarks by Bernard Hollowood were taken from the Nov. 3 issue of Punch, the British humor
magazine. Hollowood, who is the editor of Punch, visited the Davidson campus as this year's first Reynolds Lecturer in October.)

I have also sampled campus life in the U.S. The Yard at Harvard is in my view as beautiful as
anything to be found at Oxbridge. The campus at Davidson, North Carolina, is vast, efficient, sound, solid, and intoxicating. Yet
it is dry, or non-alcoholic. The students seemed to me typical of American youth. They are eloquent, thoughtful, athletic, obviously
well-fed, and wonderfully polite. I saw no weeds, I detected no poseurs, no addiction to the effete. In other words,
I was never more uplifted than by my day-long contact with these young titans of the Great Society. When they
read this column — as surprisingly they do, and regularly — they will laugh at this undiluted praise, but they
will not, I think, hold it against me that I should in odd moments seem starry-eyed. Youth everywhere takes such
a beating these days from the aged that it is high time someone spoke up for the under-sixties.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second
class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Dear Editor:

This is in response to Dr. Richards' letter to the Board of Trustees, and to its latest action. Davidson claims
to be a Christian liberal arts college. This is a contradiction in terms. If Christianity is to be officially prescribed
and its opposition by implication proscribed, how can the liberal arts be fostered? The liberal arts minus one or two
is not liberal at all. But the problem is not merely Christianity, for if the modern Christian Church were genuinely
devoted to Christ and what He said, it would experience the most radical upheaval since the Reformation. The moral and
emotional baggage of Christianity in the South is the real millstone about Davidson's neck, the force which when implemented by
partial faculty disenfranchisement will most certainly drag Davidson into intellectual obscurity. What the trustees are saying in effect is, "We
are so blinded by our own WASPism that we cannot permit a young professor outside our values to teach at
Davidson; or, if we must occasionally tolerate such an individual, we must stifle his originality and flexibility until he is
our automaton." Davidson's ethnocentrism in microcosm will be self-perpetuating as long as the barriers for both student and faculty eccentricity
are impermeable. Until we admit and accept atheists, anarchists, and other authentic thinkers, until every point of view has at
least nominal representation, Davidson can never honestly call itself a liberal arts college. What is the purpose of a college
but to teach students how to think? And how can they learn this unless they know how others have thought
and are now thinking? Why should any restriction be placed on ideas? Because some ideas are dangerous, it is said.
Who says? The Board of Trustees, who are mature and wise men. What does maturity and wisdom reflect but personal
experience? Why should the consensus on values of 50 or 50 million men determine for others which ideas are dangerous?
Because some ideas may be socially dangerous. How do they know? As participants in various social processes, they can identify
socially destructive ideas. And they have a duty to screen these ideas from impressionable students. But what assurance do we
have that those who wish to preserve the existing social order are less dangerous than those who wish to modify
or reform it? What right do 51 men have to tell 1000 students that they have a monopoly on truth?
Or that they have discovered some ideas that are certainly valid and others that are just as surely invalid? Why
should a minority impose on a majority its beliefs without the consent of that majority?

Stephen A. Graham
Davidson College

Miller

Dear Editor:

Enter Stage Left: Piers the Plowman and his Reincarnation.
Enter Stage Right: Matthew Arnold, A Shy Recluse, Thomas Love Peacock, and Mendoza.

Tense Atmosphere

Reincarnation: "Shoot if you must this old gray head, But touch not the country’s flag," she said, But I would
hesitate and say, instead...

Captain Arnold: Flag? Ah, yes The banners flashing through the trees Made their blood dance and chained their eyes That
bugle music on the breeze Arrests them with a charmed surprise. Banner by turns and bugle woo. Ye shy recluses,
follow too.

Shy Recluse: Shy Recluse? That’s me! Ahem! (falling into a staid voice pattern) Hearing of your Great Abilities and having
a Boy of Genius, and other good Dispositions, on whom I am willing to bestow a liberal Education, I would
to that End commit him to your care and Discipline. I am very desirous he may at least appear such
as shall reflect Honour on the Memory of his Friends and Benefactors which, under your Tuition, I trust he will
do. Your best Endeavours however in his Behalf shall not fail of a suitable Esteem and Recompense (Davidson College Catalogue)
(Dead and uncomfortable Silence)

Mendoza: Now, we tolerate all opinions here. But after all, comrades, the vast majority of us are neither Anarchists nor
Socialists, but gentlemen and Christians, (G. B. Shaw — Man and Superman).

Reincarnation: Yes, but this damn Captain has been trying to brainwa...

Captain Peacock: (dreadful chuckle — almost ungodly — rubbing hands together): The mountain sheep were sweeter, But the valley sheep
were fatter, We therefore deemed it meeter, To carry off the latter.

Captain Arnold: And how come you two got all the answers?

Reincarnation: The Devil take...

Piers the Plowman: Temper Nephew! (reserved and conserved) Conscience and Kyndewit kende me to hus place. (B-Text. Passus 8, ln.
184.)

George Miller
Marburg, Germany

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared
with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4
p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

by johnny ka-t
