Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A New Responsibility

We wholeheartedly commend the faculty for its prudent and realistic approach to the matter of student consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Although the measures approved by the professors differ slightly from the recommendations made by a joint faculty-Trustee committee, we feel
certain that the college trustees will look favorably on the faculty action. The amendments are not meant to be an
endorsement of student drinking; rather, they are a sign of the faculty’s confidence in the maturity and responsibility of Davidson
students.

Such action did not come hastily. Ten months ago the faculty realized the need for a meaningful statement of the
policy of the college in this area and recommended the appointment of the joint study committee. The recommendations of this
committee were approved with minor amendments by the faculty Tuesday. It is indeed encouraging that the success of such a
joint committee be demonstrated by the positive action taken by the faculty.

Even more impressive is the unanimity of feeling among the faculty during the week. Several professors have remarked to us
since the meeting concerning the harmonious, yet serious, discussion of the matter. Rarely have we seen such accord following a
faculty meeting on a topic of such importance.

We are confident that Davidson students will accept this increased measure of responsibility placed upon them by the liberalized rule.
We are confident, too, that students will accept their share of responsibility within the college community for seeing to it
that future issues are discussed in a similar spirit of calm, unemotional cooperation.

A Recent Trend

We welcome and encourage the expressions of opinions on this page in the form of letters to the editor and
are gratified that THE DAVIDSONIAN is able to serve as a forum of thought for all sides of various issues.
But we are concerned with a recent trend, begun in the last couple of issues and carried on by Ken
Childs in this issue, of misstating objective facts in leading to subjective conclusions.

In the case of Childs, he states, without any basis, that Associate Editor Johnny Clark’s position is “the view that
the behavior of the Negroes in Watts can be largely explained in terms of the color of their skin.” Whether
Childs has to invent a new position for Clark because it is easier to refute than Clark’s actual position, or
whether he honestly takes the flaming radicals’ view that any critic of modern civil rights tactics is a racist, we
do not know. Evidently irrelevant to Childs is the fact that Clark’s only allusion to race was in pointing out
that the rioters were Negroes and that many of their victims were white, a point against which few will argue.

For his convenience, Childs ignores the fact that Clark states his position as in agreement with Will Herberg, that the
James Farmers and Martin Luther Kings, “the inciters to law-defiance in the name of ‘convenience,’ are ultimately responsible for the
riots.” That Childs’ defense of his roommate's letter is strangely inconclusive is beside the point, the point being that perhaps
it would make more sense to reject a viewpoint that Clark did express rather than one Clark neither holds nor
has expressed.

If those writing letters for publication would state as facts only those which are in truth facts, then a considerable
amount of editorial page bickering could be eliminated, with the result that real differences of opinion would be more obvious
and the arguments more conclusive.

Postal Bureaucracy

One of the changes returning upperclassmen noted first in famous Davidson standards was the revised mail schedule at the “P.O.”
The time-hallowed custom of scribbling a few lines just after supper to the pretty ones or the hometown bank and
getting the letters in the outgoing mail that same night is gone, perhaps for good. Where the Davidson Post Office
once had five mail pick-ups per day, now there is a stretch between 5:15 p.m. and 8:30 a.m. when no
mail is dispatched — a 15-hour period once alleviated by the traveling Charlotte Highway Post Office at 9:55 p.m. and
2:53 a.m. This service is gone like first week rush and doesn’t seem likely to return.

Besides the definite inconvenience caused by the fact that no mail leaves Davidson until 8:30 a.m., students have also noted
that it takes a long time for mail from Charlotte or any nearby point to make its way to the
Davidson P.O. Recent tests of the mail service showed that it took 28 hours to get a letter from Charlotte
to Davidson, a distance of about 20 miles; and worse still, it took one letter 36 hours to travel from
Cornelius to Davidson, a distance of only about two miles.

Nor is Davidson alone in this latest mail snafu. There is no way that anyone in Davidson, Mooresville, Cornelius, Huntersville,
or Mount Mourne, can get a letter moving out of the post office after about 5:15 in the evening, unless
that individual wants to drive all the way to the central Charlotte post office.

The announcement by Davidson's Postmaster, Bill Mayhew, a Republican appointed by former President Eisenhower, that Davidson's mail classification had been
changed from second class to first class post office status made many students feel that the change in rank was
responsible for the deteriorating service. Mayhew said that the change from second to first class made no difference in the
number of small pick-ups or deliveries at Davidson — what this change amounted to was simply recognition that there were
a lot more stamps sold last year than usual to citizens and female-conscious Wildcats.

“The revised schedule of mail routing,” Mayhew commented, “is due to a new concept in the U.S. postal system that
went into effect last June — this is the sectional center system, whose goal is to get every piece of
first-class mail from center to center in 24 hours.”

This “sectional center” business works like this: Every piece of mail going out of Davidson is sent to Charlotte, the
nearest sectional center; from there the mail is routed to various points over the nation. This is why it took
36 hours to get a letter from Cornelius to Davidson; it had to go to Charlotte first.

Mayhew explained that the sectional center system was brand new and that there were numerous bugs still in it. Somehow
we are skeptical about any new system that takes 36 hours and 45 miles to get a letter two miles
— but for now there’s no alternative.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Associate Editors
Assistant Editors
Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION
Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK
News Editor
SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER
Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM
Photography Editor
TOM THEL
Photographer
CHIP PURVIS
Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
Advertising Manager
BILL WATSON
Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors This Week: Yates Faison, Don Sewell, Bob Reid, Luther Moore, Joel Keys, Steve Brown, Tommy Cox, Bill Richmond, Charles
McEwen, Dick Thurston, Dick Richards, John Wessel, Bob Travers, Carter Fussell, Craig Wilson, Ron Snow, Mike Bates, Robbie Hooker, Neville
Patterson, Jimmy Cooley, Price Cameron, Bill Graham, John Williams, Ted Winter, Allan Webb.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second
class matter at Davidson, N.C.

An Honest Hand

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Childs Disputes Graves: ‘Questions Are Important

Dear Editor:

Now that we have read Mr. Graves’ letter we may know why he lost his scholarship, but we certainly know
nothing more, if anything, about Watts. Perhaps Mr. Nzongola’s language was poor and his analysis oversimplified, but Mr. Clark's position
is not worth defending, and the point of the Nzongola letter was to express indignation with his trite, shallow explanations
of a significant problem. Clark’s position is somewhat less than that of the sophisticated racist, i.e., the view that the
behavior of the Negroes in Watts can largely be explained in terms of the color of their skin rather than
by careful analysis of their predicament in our society. Questions are more important to me than answers — what happened
in Wattsis interesting, but why it happened is the important thing and neither Mr. Graves nor Mr. Clark came close
to the real question, much less the answer.
Ken Childs
Davidson College
Graham

Dear Editor:
The following begins as a dialogue of sorts about fraternities and the issues they raise. For the author’s self-defense, the
identity of the participants is left to the reader. Reviewing the situation, the protestations of the zealots seem to assume
the proportions of incantation and elixir, ironically the accouterments of its enemy. Fraternities are the putative repositories of primitive fetishism,
litinous rituals which are quaint or antediluvian, depending on the degree of the commentator's intellectual sophistication. More realistically, an instructive
analogy can be drawn with fundamentalism: ritual is meaningful only to the believer. Mysticism is the inherent progenitor neither of
its critics' allegation of pandemic anti-intellectualism nor its adherents' spiritual “redolence” that stimulates inter-membership coherence. Rather, as part of an
ossified Davidsonianism, Patterson Court has become the arcanum of camaraderie. These factors are significant but have no deterministic value, for
heterogeneous student personalities from often dissimilar vicinages do not substantiate unique characterizations of (a) fraternity(ies). Another argument is that from
without, the campus, fraternities included, is atypical or schizoid, though not this fact but its derivatives for academic community and
for a prototype of “reality” are of immanent import. In final compromise, the critic might offer that the demise of
fraternities is the particular in a more general and belated attrition, the shedding of a fingolistic integument. The discussion, inevitably,
turns to the purpose of Davidson College. (Purposes would make possible the introduction of congeries of hopelessly disparate, contradictory statements.
The tedium of an incisive analysis of the concept of a Christian liberal arts college, e.g., is simply not worth
it.) No individual, of course, can speak with absolute impunity, but from almost every quarter in some fashion, the liberal
arts and academic freedom evoke appealing images. The idea, if not the words, was classically expressed by John Stuart Mill.
A more contemporary version is that of Henry Steele Commager. There is no fixed body of truth about politics, history,
economics, or law any more than about physics, biology, or medicine. It is not the business of the university to
hand down a body of agreed-on truths, or to indoctrinate the young. If, in a moment of folly, the university
or its professors attempted to do this, they would fail, for young men and women intelligent enough to get into
a university are too intelligent to submit tamely to indoctrination. Hopefully, this is true of Davidson, Commager continues. The university,
to be sure, on gifts and appropriations and many people carelessly conclude that those who pay the piper may call
the tune. But appropriations to a university no more justify public control of its intellectual activities than appropriations to the
judiciary justify control of the decisions handed down by the judges. The inauguration of the genuine liberal arts at Davidson
and academic programs for their own sake in the pristine sense of academic freedom would be an upheaval more revolutionary
than severe fraternity restrictions or even their abolition. Perhaps Commager’s words are not what is intended by “liberal arts” at
Davidson, but if it is, the implications cannot be restricted to fraternities. The egregious heteroclite of fraternities, however, in such
an ideal should not require explicit statement. It is legitimate to ask whether Davidson College has supported and encouraged fraternities
as social organizations of a general sort or as the affiliates of national bodies that prescribe local membership unanimity for
admission and in some cases prescribe religious and racial groups. Has the college defined the need which fraternities ostensibly fill?
In this connection, Mr. Vick’s tripartite division (cf. Letters to the Editor, DAVIDSONIAN, October 9, 1965) is relevant but unrealistic.
There is obviously more to Davidson than the academic aspect: e.g., the “whole man” or the “Davidson gentleman,” which are
terms that effectively loosen the purse strings of middle-class Southerners, but may be the excuse for arbitrary action, as witnessed
in the faculty resolution referred to by Vick. The malaise affecting fraternities to a greater extent, proportionately, than extra-fraternity groups
is perhaps the discouragement of individualism. The fraternity solution to the proverbial identity crisis is too stereotyped. To argue that
a sufficiently motivated individual will not be thwarted by fraternities shifts the argument from the group to the individual, where
generalizations, merely by numerical weight, are tenuous indeed. It might be more valuable to redirect the question and compare both
college goals and individually successful social-academic relationships in and outside of fraternities. The burden of proof is on the fraternities
as well as the college. Finally, a more nebulous but pregnant question involves Davidson’s social permeability. Is the college society's
critic or society's patron? To mix a metaphor, is Davidson College the nursery in the WASP’s nest?
Stephen A. Graham
Davidson College.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared
with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4
p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

SWEET DEMISE IMBUE; ENBEAR...
by Hill
CLOSE-UP
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

It was a day in late May, and I was visiting a friend in Uppsala, Sweden. My classes in France
were over, and I had come to spend some time with Torgny Rasmuson, whom I had met the fall before.
Torgny had reminded me often of a lifelong friend from home. Both Torgny and my hometown friend were sons of
doctors; both were themselves pre-medical students. Each of them had an interest in swimming, and both were at one time
nationally-ranked breast-stroke champions. Each enjoyed the out-of-doors, their major pastime being hunting, fishing, and camping. I had thought of these
similarities that day, and wondered just what my hometown buddy was doing at the time. We had both gone to
Davidson, rooming on the same hall our Freshman Year. During vacations we often got together and talked, sincerely and with
an eye to the future, as true friends can. The postman arrived at Torgny’s, and I had an air-mail special
from home. Curiously I ripped open the letter, and before reading it, noticed the enclosed newspaper clipping. KILLED IN AUTO
CRASH “Spartanburg Doctor’s Son Killed in Auto Crash,” it said. And then the article began with a sickening finality, “Sam
Orr Black, III, 20-year-old Davidson College student, was killed...” Tragedy had struck my little circle of friends. I was 3500
miles away from home; what could I do? Rapidly, blindingly, scenes of Sandy’s life flooded my mind... I saw him
as a small boy telling one and all that he was going to be a doctor like his Daddy and
Granddaddy were. I saw him describing vividly to a captivated eighth grade audience, the operation he had been allowed to
watch his father perform the day before. I saw him tying the national age group breast-stroke record in the summer
of the ninth grade. I remembered the time he brought the smallest member of his live snake collection to school,
in his pocket, and terrified his teachers. I can never forget his profitable sideline, hunting quail and selling them to
a local restaurant. In high school, he mastered all the Biology thrown at him; he served on the Student Council;
he won an appointment to the Air Force Academy. At Davidson, a young lady at Limestone, Kappa Alpha, and his
pre-med courses were main interests. It was on a trip to his fiancée that tragedy struck. From an ocean away,
all that I could do was harbor my memories, and then try to write his parents. Then as now, words
seemed futile, inadequate messengers for my feelings.

AWARD
Last week's DAVIDSONIAN noted that a Sandy Black Memorial Award had been established by his grandmother. The annual honor, in
the form of a cash grant, will be awarded to the rising senior pre-medical student deemed most outstanding by the
Administration and the Chairmen of the Biology and Chemistry Departments. No more fitting tribute could be established. The ideals, the
deep human interests, of Sandy Black will be carried into the medical profession by the Davidsonians who receive the Award.
May the Award be a challenge, as well as a trust, to them.

IN TENDER FLIGHT; SOFTLY...
