Despite near involvement in a couple of local riots, a verbal barrage from some of Ecuador’s young Communists, bruising and hair-raising rides over narrow mountain roads, a university cafeteria with ‘food worse than Slater's,’ two auto accidents, bomb threats, a meal of whole roasted guinea pigs, several cases of the “Montezuma trots,” and many other discouraging hardships, Davidson's four goodwill ambassadors to Ecuador and their three female co-workers from Queens, Charlotte College, and Sacred Heart managed to safely complete their two-month visit for PRAM with the feeling, according to PRAM leader Erskine Sproul, of having “lessened the immensity of misunderstanding by the Ecuadorians concerning the U.S., while gaining a great deal of insight” which they hope to share with as many people as possible in this country.

The trip began for the seven wayfarers on June 12 at Miami's airport, where they boarded one of the two liners owned by Ecuatoriana de Aviacion and headed for Quito, the Andean mountain city which is almost exactly on the equator and is the capital of the Nevada-sized country of Ecuador. Action began as soon as they arrived, as Richardson Scholar Fred Ehlers met them and informed them of a radio interview scheduled for the group that night, the first of numerous such programs staged by PRAM and the Voice of Youth (the sister organization in Ecuador) for the benefit of Ecuadorian audiences.

The programs generally consisted of interviews or talks with members of the group alternating with American and Latin folk music, played and sung by the duo of Sproul and Doug Pratt. Running from fifteen to thirty minutes, these programs were the chief means of communication from PRAM to the masses. The “gringos” initial place of residence in Quito was the brand-new dormitory at the Central University of Ecuador, featuring completely unsoundproofed rooms, little water, no heat, and co-ed living. Notes Pratt, “That last item sort of made up for the other odd features.”

Three days after their arrival, the seven made their ill-fated first appearance before a live audience, the student body of a middle-class high school. After members had presented PRAM's program and ideas to the students, the floor was opened for discussion. Comments PRAM's president, “We got wiped out. Several young Communists took the floor and went off on a barrage of accusations and criticisms of the U.S. and democracy for over an hour. We were completely unprepared for such an encounter and the meeting was only ended when the rector of the school finally turned the Communists off.” The experience did serve the purpose of preparing the group for discussions in the future, ensuring that they would not go anywhere else without being prepared to counter such arguments.

The next several days were filled with more radio programs, tours of medical facilities (“unbelievably filthy and antiquated”), graduation parties, fighting the traffic of Quito (host Cesar Andrade, now a Richardson Scholar, wasn’t too lucky and ran the group’s car into a monastery wall), a meeting with the personnel of the U.S. embassy (“we were not very impressed”), an anonymous threat to bomb the group’s dorm, more meetings with students, and sightseeing. Most informative to the group was a four-hour, non-heated discussion with the leaders of the national student organization, the Federation of University Students of Ecuador (F.E.U.E.), most of whose leaders are Communists. Also interesting was an interview with former President Galo Plaza.

Next on the agenda was a sixteen-hour bus trip to Cuenca, Ecuador's third-largest city, located in the mountains of the southern part of the country. Here the now-weary seven talked to the mayor and several government officials and were interviewed by the city’s daily newspaper. Among those the group talked to was Cueva Tamariz, leader of the Socialist Party and a leading candidate for President in the tentative spring elections. They also visited, among other things, the Ecuadorian-owned and operated General Tire Factory, one of the few well-run and efficient industries in Ecuador. “Ecuador’s economy is almost entirely agrarian,” says Sproul, “with most of the nation's income being derived from the banana plantations of the coastal plains. They produce 25 percent of the world's bananas, but dependence on this single item is risky because of increasing plant disease, increasing competition from Central America, and a widely fluctuating market. The great need in Ecuador is for more industry, such as the tire industry in Cuenca.”

Returning to Quito on the day scheduled for a riot by certain political groups, the North American visitors moved out of the University’s dorm, which now appeared not to be the safest place around, and into private homes of the members of the Voice of Youth. Concerning the riots, Sproul notes that “Most Americans don't realize that Ecuador is ruled by a military junta which overthrew an incompetent president in 1963. The people, now tired of a dictatorship, are getting impatient for the junta to make definite plans concerning long-awaited elections which will return the nation to democratic rule. Thus political disturbances such as this are becoming increasingly frequent.” The students of the F.E.U.E., incensed about four of their leaders who had been exiled, had their own riot a couple of days later. “However,” Sproul points out, “they stayed at the edge of the university campus, where they were immune from police action. The American Cultural Center, with its big glass windows, was conveniently located across the street and soon had no windows. Unfortunately for the rioters, their leader momentarily stepped over the campus boundary line and was quickly grabbed by police and shipped out of the country also.”

More tours, interviews, and radio programs followed, including inspections of a Catholic school for the deaf and dumb (“very impressive”) and of the local prison and a talk with the chief of police. The PRAM delegates also visited the Alliance for Progress office, where they discovered that “there are about ten guys in the office for every one out in the field.” “Still,” says Sproul, “the Alliance has done an awful lot of good in Ecuador. Yet they receive a tremendous amount of criticism and their motives are greatly misunderstood by the people.”

Near the end of July, the group traveled down to Guayaquil on the coast, Ecuador's largest city and its major port. Besides taping more radio programs here, they also conducted an hour-long prime-time television show about PRAM. In addition to another hospital tour, the seven stalwarts also talked to the editors of Guayaquil’s two leading newspapers and interviewed several business and political figures, including Carlos Arroyo del Rio, a past Ecuadorian president, and Raul Clemente Huerta, a narrowly-defeated liberal presidential candidate. The Peace Corps personnel they met in Guayaquil, as in all Ecuador, were particularly noteworthy to Sproul, who was impressed with the enthusiasm for and acceptance of the Peace Corps by the Ecuadorians. “The Peace Corps,” says Sproul, “is the best ambassador the U.S. has.”

A series of parties and meetings where the PRAM program was evaluated and policy formulated concluded the group's stay in Ecuador after their return to Quito. Although helping Ecuadorians to understand the United States and its “gringos” was a prime objective of the PRAM trip, an almost equally important result by PRAM's envoys was the increased understanding of Ecuador, its people, and its problems.

AFTER SUCCESSFUL SUMMER

More money, new chapters, and broader organization are all part of the future plans of PRAM. Spokesman Erskine Sproul outlined the new plans for PRAM’s development in the next year, emphasizing the need for expansion in financial resources. Of the $8,000 collected last year, $5,000 was spent in the program this summer, and the other $3,000 has already been allocated for other projects this year. The projects on hand include $1,000 to be spent in Ecuador for further organization, and $1,000 to be spent for operations in this country. Another $1,000 is to be spent for a magazine intended to attract new financial support.

Sproul stated that there will be another fund drive later this year to raise funds for next summer’s exchange, but expressed hope that a trust fund could be arranged through a donation by one of the large foundations, possibly the Ford Foundation or the Rockefeller Foundation, thus providing the necessary funds without an annual fund drive to provide the money. The fund could ensure the needed funds and could be enlarged as new contributions were added. He pointed out that it would take around $800,000 in the trust fund to provide the necessary funds. Marc Simpson, treasurer, will head a PRAM delegation to a conference in New Orleans on Nov. 4 at which there will be all firms interested in contributing to projects such as this.

Andrade Asks Understanding

The Project of the Americas’ most precious ideals are fixed in something which has seemed a dream of a long time, but which has now begun to become a great reality. At the price of many headaches and sleepless nights, we have proven that it is not an impossible goal we have chosen, and that the road is open to the future. In PRAM we are trying to give youths a real opportunity to make of the Americas a land where people are occupied in building truths without having to combat lies, a place where society is truly devoted to the well-being of each of its members. Our belief is in the inevitable necessity of knowing each other, in the necessity of doing something which really helps us work together, in other words, in a strong bond, not an easily-dissolved shallow acquaintance. “None of us will ever be the same,” one of PRAM's students said. “It was like looking into a mirror and seeing the good and bad things about my country.”The trip may change my life. I think I'd like to go back to South America for a career. With an education and some capital, I could help in my small way to raise their standard of living. This is more than an article; it is a message addressed to the conscience of the youth who realizes that he and others his age will shape the realities of the future. It is addressed to those who want to give a moment of their lives to better understanding among humans. It is addressed to those who wish to face the problems of the under-developed world at a time when their help is vitally needed. One of our aims is to create a new American conscience. I think that this has already begun. The first seven United States students who went to Ecuador last summer all have now a new understanding and knowledge of their South American neighbors, and likewise, the South Americans they met have a new understanding of them. I like to look at our world as a nest in which we have placed many hopes. It is a world in which we are making our own destiny, and one in which American youth can be the rising sun of the promised dawn of inter-American understanding and friendship. There is a place and an opportunity in PRAM for everyone who is truly interested in shattering the misconceptions North and South Americans have of each other. I welcome any inquiries from the Davidson student body. The conference is sponsored by the National Association of Foreign Student Affairs and is concerned with inter-American exchange. At the same time, Simpson will contact various firms in the Gulf Coast area who are closely connected with Latin America and South America both financially and culturally. Plans were made this summer for enlarging the number of local chapters both in the United States and in South America. The national organization would consist of a president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, and a coordinator. Each local chapter would be organized on this same structure. As soon as it is feasible, national elections will be held without the stipulation that the center of the organization remain at Davidson, although the national secretary and the treasurer would remain at Davidson to be immediately accessible to the records and the finances. The coordinator will keep in touch with the local chapters and distribute any information. Money collected by the locals would be divided with a percentage going to the national and the rest being used to defray the expenses of the local. Glenn Withrow is in charge of all expansion and hopes to add Carolina, Duke, State, Tulane, LSU, and the University of Houston to the already existing chapters. Those already established include Queens, Sacred Heart, UNC-Charlotte, and Trinity University of Texas. Fred Ehlers, from a new PRAM office in Quito, is presently working on expansion and plans to enlarge the scope to include chapters in Peru, Panama, and Colombia in 1966. There are plans for expanding the exchange program to fifteen students, an increase of eight, from this country visiting Latin America and fifteen Latin American students visiting this country. Both groups will be broken down into smaller groups of five to facilitate travel and to provide broader contact. The American students will leave as soon as school is over and will travel in Latin America through the months of July and August. The Latin American students will arrive around the first of August and remain until the end of September, making a circular tour of the eastern United States. The students who participated in last summer's program will continue with phase two of the year's program by making trips to other chapters and various unaffiliated schools explaining their trip and what accomplishments they made. At present, there are no plans for a regular magazine, but there will be a newsletter printed and distributed to contributors and friends outlining progress and the expenditure of funds. As in the past, PRAM will remain free of any affiliation, including the State Department.

(Photo by Sproul) - FRED EHLERS PRAM Prime Mover

Davidsonians Fox An Army, Visit Jungle

An excursion into the jungles of Ecuador and a trip to Peru were additional highlights of the summer for several of PRAM's travelers following their work in Ecuador. Glenn Withrow, Doug Pratt, David Walker, and an Ecuadorian PRAM member left Quito, the capital of Ecuador, and headed toward the Ecuador jungle on August 5. Traveling at first by bus, they were equipped with a tent, cooking utensils, and a shotgun. During the trip, the bus was stopped by a landslide, and all of the passengers had to walk around the obstructed road to catch another bus on the other side. Once they had to run to avoid falling rocks. On the following day, the PRAM contingent was stopped by the army at a checkpoint and told by a colonel that they could proceed no further without additional papers from the director of the armed forces in Quito. However, the boys explained their predicament to a missionary, who in turn spoke to a friendly army captain. After the colonel left, the boys were allowed to proceed past the checkpoint, leaving their passports as security. That night the group met two Americans working in Ecuador who recognized them and said, “Oh, you're the gringoes the army is looking for.” The boys sneaked through the next checkpoint. After crossing a river by cable car, the boys arrived at Tena, a town in the jungle ten miles from the site where five missionaries were killed by the Acua Indians in 1960. Guided by a Peace Corps worker, the boys traveled five miles deeper into the jungle by dugout canoe. Twenty-five persons had drowned in the river during the previous two days when their boats had been caught in rapids. Finally arriving at a small village in the jungle, the group found what appeared to Withrow as a Utopia. “Everything was quiet and peaceful. Every now and then you'd hear a baby cry or a dog bark. You could hear the noise of the river 100 feet away,” he said. On the hill surrounding the village were plots of land where crops were grown. The houses in the village were made of bamboo and kept very clean. The PRAM crew learned from their guide that the village had no radios or electricity. The village girls married when they were fourteen or fifteen and did all of the heavy work. The villagers were very peaceful. Few could read or write, and they had no concept of the United States or Russia. When asked if they needed anything, the villagers smiled and replied, “No, we have everything.” “We felt strange inside when we left the village,” Withrow commented. After leaving the jungle and returning to Quito, Withrow left the group and traveled alone to Peru on August 12. While there, he visited a Peruvian boy from Charlotte who attended UNC-Charlotte. Withrow also journeyed throughout the country investigating the possibilities for introducing PRAM’s programs to Peru next summer. Visiting the cities of Lima, Arequipa, Cuzco (the capital of the Inca empire 2000 years ago), and Puno, Withrow talked with university students, Peace Corps workers, city officials, and businessmen. Almost all of them liked the idea behind PRAM and offered assistance to the program. At the universities, Withrow talked PRAM with the students, a large number of them being Communists. Most of them had a pretty distorted picture of the United States. Withrow said, but they were interested in PRAM because of the exchange in ideas that it offered and the fact that it did not care about ideology. After Withrow returned to the U.S. from Peru on September 8, he was convinced that a program can be set up and enthusiastically received in Peru—if PRAM can find the money.

(Photo by Sproul) ROASTED GUINEA PIG A LA TOM JONES Rube Walker and Glenn Withrow Chow Down Graciously