PAGE SIX

‘Time’ Correspondent

Jason McManus, Rhodes scholar from Davidson and presently a contributing editor for TIME Magazine, will speak in chapel Tuesday. A
former McManus was graduated from Davidson in 1956 and from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public Affairs at Princeton in
1958 before going to Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar. McManus was a writer for SPORTS ILLUSTRATED before becoming Assistant
News Editor in TIME’s Overseas Bureau. He is now with the main office of TIME. In 1959 McManus wrote in
TIME the first article concerning the possibility of Great Britain’s joining the Common Market. He most recently authored the cover
article on Buddhism which appeared several weeks ago. While at Davidson McManus was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, president
of ODK, and president of Phi Delta Theta.

West Va. Chaplain Will Speak Sunday

The Rev. Robert M. Henry, Presbyterian minister to students at the University of West Virginia, will speak at vespers Sunday
evening. The topic has not been announced. Henry, ‘53, is a native of West Virginia. While at Davidson he was
president of ODK, Kappa Alpha Order, and the Beaver Club. Henry was captain of the track and cross-country teams and
a member of the D-Club. As Regimental Commander, he was a Distinguished Military Student and a member of Scabbard and
Blade. He also served as a member of the Student Council and Court of Control. After graduation and a tour
of duty with the United States Army, Henry entered Union Theological Seminary and received the bachelor of divinity degree in
1958. After serving in pastorates in West Virginia, he assumed his present position. He is married to the former Louise
McNair, Queens '53. The last vespers of the semester will be preached by Chaplain Will Terry January 17. His sermon
will be ‘From Raccoon Coats to Greasy Grinds to Authentic Laughter.’

Chorus Tour Plans Indicate Progress

The Davidson-sponsored flight to Europe is “filling up,” according to Bill Bondurant, director of alumni activities. With 70 indications of
interest and several $100 deposits, Bondurant is confident he will have the necessary 94 reservations by the March 15 deadline.
The plane can accommodate 110 passengers plus the Male Chorus. Bondurant cites the bargain of the $350 round-trip fare, as
well as the present response, as reasons for the likely success of the plan. The flight will depart from Charlotte
and land in London and Paris. On the return trip, the flight will originate in Paris and land in New
York before returning to Charlotte. Possible departure dates are June 12 or 13. The return trip will be July 10
or 11. Information concerning passports and foreign exchange is now available in Bondurant's office.

THE DAVIDSONIAN EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SECOND SEMESTER

WED. May 26
A.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
A.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

THURS. May 27
A.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

FRI. May 28
A.M. Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

SAT. May 29
P.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

MON. May 31
A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
A.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

TUES. June 1
A.M. ROTC 12, 22, 32
P.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

WED. June 2
A.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

THURS. June 3
P.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Study Day Scheduled For Pre-Exam Work

A pre-examination study day will be held on Tuesday, Jan. 19, the first time that such a day has been
included in the examination schedule at Davidson. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, announced that the day will be designed for the
students’ benefit. There will be no classes and no required exercises. Although originally listed on the Union Calendar as scheduled
for Tuesday, there will be no chapel on the pre-examination study day. Hengeveld also announced that the Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday classes will
be held on Monday, Jan. 18, the day before the pre-examination study day in place of the normal classes. This
will equalize the M-W-F classes with the T-T-S classes for the semester. Dr. Joseph T. Drake, chairman of the academic
scheduling committee, explained that the committee had been considering adding a study day to the schedule for some years. Many
students had been requesting it, and last year the Student Council endorsed the idea. The University of North Carolina and
Duke University have scheduled similar days for several years. The committee last year referred the suggestion to the faculty, who
strongly approved of the idea. Drake commented that the professors likewise will benefit from the study day by getting a
chance to prepare exams or mark papers. A similar pre-examination study day will be held on Tuesday, May 25, the
day before the second semester exams begin. Also, these study days have been included in next year’s calendar. Drake further
commented that unless these days are grossly misused and their obvious benefits wasted by the students, they will probably be
continued in future years.

FEBRUARY 1-6 Greek Week Planned

Greek Week — the last step before initiation for fraternity pledges — will begin alongside second semester classes on Monday,
Feb. 1 at 6:30 p.m. with the customary banquet in the Union and will continue through 11 p.m. Saturday, Feb.
6. Activities will begin at 1 p.m. each day except Monday and must end by 10 p.m. Monday through Thursday
and by 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Added to this year’s activities is a Pledge Class Field Day which will
begin at 1 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 3. Part of the pre-initiation ceremonies of Greek Week include some constructive project,
usually a work project carried on off campus. In the past these projects have included work at the Lake Campus,
repair work at local churches, and painting and repairs on schools, children’s homes, and public health buildings. During Greek Week
no form of “hazing,” personal abuse, or personal indignity will be allowed. Included in the list of prohibited acts are
paddling, forced eating, activities interfering with digestion, “mud wallowing,” required stud running or other personal service, shoe shining, and any
obscene or vulgar activities. The complete list of prohibited activities with the exception of “mud wallowing” can be found on
page 75 of the Wildcat Handbook. Also prohibited are any practices which would possibly result in physical harm or interrupt
regular classes. Violations of these rules may incur up to a $100 individual fine or a $500 fraternity fine, depending
on the seriousness of the offense. The primary responsibility for the enforcement of these regulations is vested in the fraternity
liaison officer, Robert Jones. In charge of Greek Week activities for the IFC is Bill Alexander, who must instruct pledge
trainers in the Greek Week regulations and must generally oversee the activities of Greek Week.

Scheduling Committee Arranges Calendar

Prof. Joseph T. Drake, head of the Academic Scheduling Committee, has announced the calendar for the 1965-66 school year with
classes beginning on Sept. 15 and Commencement set for June 4-5. “In an effort to make things easier for the
Athletic Scheduling Committee, tentative schedules have been drawn up as far in advance as the 1968-69 school year,” said Drake.
Next year’s calendar retains the pre-exam study days and a spring vacation with two weekends, both of these being instituted
by Drake and his committee. Thanksgiving vacation will be Nov. 23-29 while Christmas holidays begin Dec. 18 and end Jan.
3. First semester exams, following a reading day, will run Jan. 19-27. Second semester begins on Jan. 31 after a
three-day mid-term break. Spring vacation is slated for March 26-April 4 and second semester exams last May 25-June 2. The
two-day Commencement ceremonies will be held June 4-5. As is necessary this year, next year’s schedule calls for the TTS
classes to meet on Monday, Jan. 17, 1965 in order to give a total of 45 TTS class periods each
semester. There will be 46 MWF class sessions each semester of the 1965-66 term. Drake further commented that unless these
days are grossly misused and their obvious benefits wasted by the students, they will probably be continued in future years.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1965

Ticket Prices Criticized

By HEYWARN CAGLE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Recently various members of the student body have expressed the opinion that Davidson students ought to be allowed to attend
“home” basketball games free. By the term “home games” they apparently mean those played in the Charlotte Coliseum as well
as those in Johnston Gym on campus. These students contend that home games should be free to the student body
no matter where played and that the present half-price Coliseum game is unfair and is only a means for the
Athletic Department to obtain extra revenue. Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, has said, “In principle
I believethat the students should be admitted free to every game,” although he makes it clear that he realizes that
there may be circumstances which would make this impractical as well as economically unwise. A suggestion which he feels would
do a great deal in settling this controversy is that a group representing the student body meet with the Faculty
Athletic Committee and present the student views on the problem. If such action were taken, the committee could then present
to Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics, whatever proposals they had adopted from this conference. Such action would have to
be initiated by the students or the Student Council, however.

In answer to the question of free student games, Scott stated that he does not believe that such an idea
is practical. “In the first place, Davidson charges the students no specific athletic fee, as do many other colleges,” but
instead includes this in a general fee encompassing such things as medical expenses, the yearbook, and other publications. Secondly, all
games played in the Coliseum financially obligate Davidson to the Coliseum for 10 percent of the gate receipts and to
the visiting team for some predetermined amount. (In games such as William and Mary, for example, the visiting team receives
50 percent of the take, Scott pointed out.) Furthermore, combined student, faculty, and administration seating takes up approximately 20 percent
of the seats in the Coliseum. As a result, when the students are admitted free to a home game, the
school gets only 35 percent of the gate, usually. (An automatic 10 percent to the Coliseum, 20 percent in free
seating, and one-half of the remaining 70 percent to the visiting team.) This leaves very little for the athletic department,
especially when traveling expenses to places like St. Joseph’s (where Davidson received only $1500—not enough to pay expenses) and to
Southern Conference games (where the school receives no compensation at all) are taken into consideration.

At present, the student is guaranteed 10 free games. Seven are played on campus in Johnston Gym and the remaining
three are in Charlotte. They are Wake Forest (already played) and George Washington and West Virginia (to be played next
month). On the schedule set up this year, there is no one single game in the Coliseum which the students
are required to pay for during the regular school term (excepting Christmas holidays).

YMCA FORUM
Sex Attitude Changes Topic Of Evaluation

Contemporary attitudes on sex and ethics will be examined in a series of forums during the next semester under the
sponsorship of the YMCA. Under the planning of Jay Federman, chairman of the Forum Committee, five speakers representing a variety
of viewpoints have been invited to the campus to speak in chapel, lead an informal discussion in the afternoon, and
give a lecture the following evening. The series will be oriented towards allowing each student to develop a deeper understanding
of the problem, especially in its relationship towards the church today.

Since there has been a revolution in sex values throughout the Western World in recent years, the YMCA hopes that
the forums will afford a clear picture of any ethical problems which might have arisen along with the breakdown of
old norms and traditions. The topic will be explored from anthropological, sociological, psychological, and religious perspectives in the course of
the series with a view towards allowing each student to make a choice of his position.

The first speaker will be Ethel Nash, who will treat such subjects as the current crisis in masculinity and femininity,
and the sociological transition of sex values in the Western World. Among the following speakers will be John Rule, speaking
on the problems of college administrations in attempting to regulate sex, and Harvey Cox, speaking on contemporary Christian attitudes. A
more liberal position will be set forth by Paul Goodman, while a member of the Catholic clergy will explain the
conservative position.

John Birch Group To Be Discussed

Merits and demerits of the John Birch Society will be the topic of discussion at next Tuesday's meeting of the
Conservative Club, according to President Dan Campbell. This will be the last meeting of this semester for the club. Next
semester's plans include having an outside speaker from the faculty or elsewhere at least every other bimonthly meeting. Other programs
will consist of student reports and discussions. The club will sponsor one more chapel program. This speaker will be sponsored
jointly by the club and the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, a nonprofit student organization with which the club is affiliated.

According to Campbell, the club intends to present programs and discussions not only on politics, but also on such subjects
as education, economics, and religion. During the first semester, the club had several outside speakers at its meetings and also
sponsored a chapel program. Program speakers included Perry Morgan of the Charlotte News and Alan Newcomb of WBT.

Coggin Will Elucidate Recent Vatican Action

The Rt. Rev. Walter Coggin, chancellor of Belmont Abbey College, will speak in chapel Thursday on the recent Vatican Council.
Rev. Coggin, having returned from his trip as a delegate to the conference, will relate his impressions of the council,
its purpose, and its accomplishments. Students and faculty members will have an opportunity to talk with the chancellor at a
reception following the chapel in the Morrison Room of the Union.

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

LAKESIDE INN (Under New Management)
“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.”
Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater
Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m. on...
For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Julie Mackie, Converse sophomore from Washington, D. C., receives the crowning touches of Christmas Sweetheart from retiring Queen Cheri Rose,
Salem College freshman from Winston-Salem. Judged as the most attractive, original, beautiful, and clever contestant of representatives from Davidson fraternities,
Queens and Converse dorms and Memorial School of Nursing in Charlotte, Julie goes to Blowing Rock after exams to represent
Davidson in the Miss Southern Ski Queen Contest. There she will be judged on her ability to take a ski
lesson as well as on the qualities which assisted her in winning the sweetheart title at Davidson. She'll be competing
with the added advantage of pointers from Cheri who last year copped the second runner-up place over contestants from Southern
colleges and universities. Julie, sponsored by West Wilson dorm at Converse, was crowned sweetheart during the final feature of the
entertainment at the College Union's recent Christmas party.

FEARS BACKFIRE
Council Turns Down Proposed Vow Study

Student Council has set aside, for the present, its plan to appoint a committee to formulate a stand on the
Faculty oath. This move came at the Council's weekly meeting Tuesday after President Will Jackson presented a report on his
investigation into the possibility that such a stand might interfere with the efforts of the faculty and administration in this
area. “Any effort on our part right now would hurt their cause more than help it,” said Jackson, relating the
opinions of those members of the administration he had consulted on the matter. The group had decided at an earlier
meeting to delay appointment of the committee pending Jackson's investigation in spite of the fact that the work of the
committee would not be presented until this spring. Jackson felt that the mere appointment of the committee, not just its
decision, might damage the efforts of the faculty or administration.

At the same meeting, David Powell continued to express concern over the lack of a signal at the railroad crossing
on Griffith Street. He said that a serious accident occurred there during the Christmas Holidays. Powell further noted that many
other persons were becoming concerned over this situation, and said that he would continue in his efforts to have a
signal installed. Fred Sackett, Don Davidson, and John Barrow were not present at the meeting.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

WINTER CLEARANCE NOW IN PROGRESS
Suits, Sport Coats, Slacks, Sweaters
Dress Shirts, Sport Shirts
BIG REDUCTIONS
ALL SALES FINAL
Cuffs Free — Other Alterations Extra
Bush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.
