FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sigs Set Hot Pace In IMAC
By TOMMY COX
Davidsonian Sports Writer

An old adage relates that “everybody loves a winner,” but this truism seems not to apply to flickerball fields. The
Kappa Sigs dominated action this weekend and extended their winning streak to 51 straight games. Rallying from early deficits, they
overtook both the SAE’s and the Phi Gams, 20-7 and 33-13 respectively. The Sigs, led by captain Tommy Reams and
tailback Ray Garrison, utilized a well-balanced offense and a tough defense in demonstrating that they again seem to be the
team to beat in IMAC competition this fall.

Another possible contender, the Betas, nipped the Sigma Chis 19-13 in a hotly contested game. Mac Otts scored two of
the six-pointers on passes from Jack Sherrill. Sherrill also scored two touchdowns in each game, increasing his total to six
for three games. Senior David Brown played two sterling defensive and offensive games.

The Phi Delts scored two touchdowns in the final two minutes to defeat the Pi Kaps Monday, 18-12. Two passes
from tailback Buzzy Parker to sophomore Ronnie Hunt spearheaded the Delt attack Thursday as they ripped the Pikas 33-12. End
George Leight commented on the strong Delt team: “We have a stingy defense and a good offense. We'll be hard
to beat.”

Reams elaborated: “We were pretty shaky the first game, but the whole team is improving. It's a fast and tall
team, and our tailback seems to be coming around.”

Rufus Adair tallied three TDs for the ATO’s, leading the Taus past the Sigma Nus 34-12. The Nus, without their
tailback Rick Pfitzner, are rated a dark horse this year. Thom Blair scored also in the hard-fought victory. “Our defense
is real tough with Pat Hubbard at linebacker. With a little work on offense, we will be really tough,” remarked
Jim Stokes, senior tailback.

In other IMAC games this week, the Pikas snubbed the Phi Gams 13-12 and the SPE’s trounced the Independents. Last
Friday's games were cancelled because of rain. The Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, Betas, and ATO's remain undefeated after two weeks
of competition, but next week's schedule will end that as the Betas are pitted against the ATO's and the Kappa
Sigs against the Delts.

The 69ers have yet to begin their season in the special freshman league.

Two Seniors Say Retire Fred’s 44

The following letter sent me on a chase to find Dr. Tom Scott to ask why nothing like this had
been done. I got an answer, albeit not an overly satisfactory one.

Dear Editor:

Surprisingly, this letter does not concern any pressing issues such as fraternity rush, campus religion, or the sexual mores of
America; it simply concerns a matter of importance to the Davidson tradition. Doesn't it seem fitting that the only person
ever to be selected as the Most Valuable Player in the Southern Conference for all three of his varsity basketball
seasons should at least have contributed enough to Davidson College to justify the retirement of his jersey? This tradition is
commonly observed by other major colleges and universities throughout the country for such outstanding athletes. All-America Fred Hetzel's big number
44 is remembered not only by those students who attended Davidson during his career, but also by thousands of alumni
who gained renewed interest in the old alma mater due to his efforts. We feel certain that we are expressing
the feelings of countless other students and alumni who would be in favor of such action.

Star Evins
Jim Appleby
CLASS OF ‘69

Hetzel’s 44 won't be retired because, as Dr. Scott says, “We might run out of numbers.” Only digits less than
five can be used for basketball numbers (so officials can show the numbers of guilty players committing fouls) and this
severely limits the numbers. Still, running out of numbers because of superstars at Davidson? Like I said, a reason, albeit
not an overly satisfactory one.

Flickerball Fledgeling ‘ballers Get New Look With First Fall Practice
By SONNY GRAVES
“Inside-the-Sports” Writer

Noticing the new look on campus, Coach Tom Stevens has come up with several innovations in an attempt to prevent
a recurrence of the disastrous season of 1965. The first innovation is his success in obtaining a new baseball diamond
which is under construction on the site of the old driving range. Another addition is that of fall baseball practice
for both the freshmen and the varsity. The hardworking mentor hopes to use these practice sessions to give the “horsehiders”
a head start in both fundamentals and attitude, as well as for seeing the prospects for next spring. With most
of the 1965 team returning, Stevens has high expectations for the 1966 season. Captain Jimmy Hyder, pitcher Howard Bryan, and
outfielder Dick Snyder form a strong nucleus up the middle and the team will be formed around them.

Hyder was first team Southern Conference last year, Bryan and Snyder second team, and Snyder was first team all-state. Backing
them up are lettermen Jim Terry, Skip Waite, Claude Owen, Jake Jacobsen, Bryant Hinnant, Buddy Durham, Charlie Elliott, and Gene
Bennett. In addition, support is expected from sophomores Paul Brown, Henry Wilmer, and Chet Davidson.

FALL TENNIS BEGUN

Fall tennis practice has begun, and coach Harry Fogleman is in the process of selecting a team to defend last
year's Southern Conference Championship. There are fifteen candidates for the team, from which eight regulars will be chosen. Leading contenders
are lettermen Bill Council, Dick Hurd, Woody Cleveland, Esmond Phelps, Peter Parrott, and Geordie Mueller, and sophomore hopefuls Woody Faulk
and Pinky Hatcher. Says Coach Fogleman, “We will be strong again this year.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

have our team chosen by Thanksgiving, so we will be ready for the coming 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N.
C. Phone ED 2-2414 A new soccer season gets under way as the Wildcat booters meet Pembroke State College here
on Wednesday. Last year’s line also contains two Richardson Scholars Peter Carnwath and Juergen Ewald. Defense should be the key
word in the ‘Cat attack. “We have a big, fast backfield—as fast as it's ever been. We'll be changing our
system this year by reversing the number of fullbacks and halfbacks. This is different from our attack of previous years.”
Spirit has been running high throughout the past week,” Fogleman reports. Summing up his squad's chances in the coming season,
Fogleman remarked, “The boys say they'll win them all—and they should know.”

SAILORS TAKE NOTE- The new Jet 14 class sailboats recently purchased by Davidson may be used by any undergraduate who
has obtained a skippership card. The boats will be free for use in the fall and in the spring. These
cards will be given to the student upon demonstrating to one of the instructors listed below the ability to rig
and sail the boat safely, and after paying the fee of $1.00 which will be used for maintenance of the
boats. The instructors are Gresh Bayne, Chip Bellamy, Bob Dugger, Tom Kirtley, Bob Murphy, and Chip Robertson. The boats will
be available at the following times: Sunday 2:00-5:00 p.m., Monday 3:00-9:30 p.m., Tuesday 3:00-9:30 p.m., Wednesday 3:00-9:30 p.m., Saturday 10:00-5:30
p.m.

Strong Harriers

“We've got some tough competition, but the boys are working real hard. I believe we're going to finish strong." That
is Coach Heath Whittle’s forecast for the Davidson harrier’s 1965 season. Although the ‘Cats have lost four of last year's
first five runners by graduation, Coach Whittle expects several boys to develop into top-flight runners. “We expect great things from
Robert Little," remarked Whittle. “Jessie Sims and sophomore Jim McLaughlin should be leading the pack.” The harriers kick-off their season
October 6 against Wake Forest. The teams will run at Wake Forest starting at 4:00 P.M. Added Coach Whittle, “If
we can get by Wake Forest, the team should be in good shape. Wake Forest subsidizes their cross-country. This always
puts us at a disadvantage.” Coach Whittle expects the freshman team to be his best in years. The top prospects
include Mike Moats, Randel Phillips, and Dan Monbrea. “We're talking about being state champions,” beamed Whittle.

Superlative 100 Per Cent Lamb’s Wool In Comfort Only Full Fashioning Can Give By Cox-Moore and Lord Jeff 11.00 to
16.00

By BILL BRIGGS Sports Editor

RECRUITING VIA BARBERS

I sat in the window beside the checkerboard and listened to Joe (the barber) as he rambled on about Charles
Scott. “Well, I don't know what I can tell you about Charles that you'd want to put in the paper,”
Joe drawled lazily as his fellow barbers struggled with a one-year-old getting his first haircut and his mother with her
camera in hand. “Gordon (a co-barber) probably knows him best; he met him when he came up here to see
the Hetzel-Cunningham game last year. I didn’t really meet Charles until this summer when he came up here for Lefty's
camp. Then one evening I passed him on the street talking to a couple of teenage girls. ‘You got to
come to school here. Lefty said he'd give me tickets for four years if I got you to come,’ I
told him. Well, we talked a little, you know, and then I asked him again if he thought he'd come,
and he says he thinks he will; so we talked some more. Finally, I had to go and he says
to me, ‘You'll get your tickets whether Lefty gives them to you or not, cause I'm going to play here.’”

Charles Scott is a Negro basketball player. He also is number one academically in his class at Laurinburg Institute. But
of most note now, he is an applicant for early admission to Davidson College. Davidson's informal and somewhat unique method
of recruiting Scott might draw chuckles from such basketball powers as UCLA, Duke, and Michigan. I doubt Lew Alcindor, high
school’s most sought-after player since Wilt Chamberlain, met a single Los Angeles barber when he went to UCLA. But barbers,
mostly on their own, but with some prompting from Lefty, just might turn chuckles into tears. “Somebody fixed him up
with a date, I believe,” Joe told me. “He got along with the teenage girls though. He went to the
teen canteen some.” Then Joe flashed a big smile and said, “I think he sort of started liking one girl.”
So add local talent to the recruiters. A 6'5" thin and rather quiet boy according to his barber friends, Scott
averaged 23 points a game as a junior in a tournament sort of affair at the World’s Fair in New
York this summer. Scott played against Alcindor, the seven-foot UCLA freshman. Scott's team took Alcindor and company and Scott scored
53 points in the process. Coach Driesell admits frankly, “Scott is good enough to play anywhere.” As Joe told me,
“Barry Teague said to me, ‘He looks like he’s in a class by himself.’ And Hetzel said, ‘He can play
for any varsity team right now.’ I'll say one thing about it, he’s a basketball player. And maybe ours.”

PREMONITIONS AND THE CITADEL

Honest to God, I had a real live premonition; my first premonition; I'm sort of proud of it, so therefore,
here's the background for prediction number three, after two guesses, a premonition: Twinkle-toes Terry puts the two touchdown favorites down
14-13. Last Tuesday I had a dream.

He's helping young men plan today for a better life tomorrow. He’s your Southwestern Life College Representative — and he
has specially-designed life insurance policies to fit your own individual needs today, tomorrow and in the years ahead. They're new-idea
plans created by one of the nation’s leading life insurance companies especially for, and only for, college seniors and graduate
students pursuing professional degrees. He's an easy person to talk with, and what he has to tell you about these
policies can make a lot of difference in your future. Talk with him when he calls — give him an
opportunity to be “Your Friend for Life.” There's never any obligation.

Mooresville nine the eating traditional 201 S. Tryon St. — FR 6-8588 Charlotte, N. C. representing... Southwestern Life
