PAGE SIX

FINE PAYMENT
Council Votes Change In Traffic Regulations

The Student Council, in its regular Monday night meeting, took action on a proposal to simplify payment of traffic fines.
Random findings on the parking space problem were presented by Randy McKnight. McKnight called for the abolition of the regular
Friday Traffic Court as a means of paying fines and suggested replacing it with a box in the Dean's Office
where fines could be deposited in special envelopes containing the ticket and payment by check. The check payment would eliminate
the need for issuing receipts by the college. Special cases or fine appeals could be made by letter and then
reviewed at a monthly meeting of a student traffic committee established for the purpose. Both ideas met with the unanimous
approval of the Council, and plans were made to install a box for payment of fines as soon as possible.

Bill Council announced a Conference on Opportunities for Public Services in Federal, State, and Local Government, to be held at
Chapel Hill on Dec. 10. Council said he would try and make it, but he was unsuccessful in convincing anyone
else that it was worthwhile.

John Thomas named the representatives from Davidson to the United Nations Model Assembly to be held at Duke University, Feb.
9-12. Ken Childs, Sam Johnson, George Nzongola, and Thomas will represent the Dominican Republic. The four students will prepare themselves
by studying the economic, social, and political conditions of the country, according to Nzongola. In this way, they will be
better able to represent the viewpoint of the Dominican Republic in defending or opposing various issues. Each country will be
responsible for presenting and adequately backing a resolution to the Assembly.

A life insurance plan for students up to the age of 33 was presented by Chuck Matthews under the auspices
of the NSA. The policy is underwritten by the American Health and Life Insurance Company and provides for $10,000 maximum
coverage in case of death. The rates, depending upon age bracket, range from $20 to $30 a year. This plan
was prepared as a non-profit service of the NSA after consultation and recommendation from experts in the field. A letter
of explanation will be sent to all parents explaining various aspects of the plan as well as how it can
be incorporated into their present coverage.

Economist To Talk In Chapel Tuesday

Ludwig von Mises, one of the nation’s foremost neoclassical economists, will be the featured speaker in chapel Tuesday. Another in
the series of economic speakers, he will be introduced by A. G. Griffin, chairman of the Economics Department. According to
Dr. Louise Nelson, von Mises “is an eminent man of international renown. He is noted primarily as a monetary theorist
who has written numerous works in the field of economics.” Born in Austria, von Mises has served as professor of
economics at the University of Austria, professor of international relations at the Grand Institute of International Studies, Geneva, Switzerland, and
acting professor of economics at the National University of Mexico. Having been associated with New York University since 1946, von
Mises is the author of many books in the field of economics. Human Action and The Theory of Money and
Credit, the best known of his books, are both found in the college library. There will be a coffee hour
in the Morrison Room following his lecture.

Petition Movement Progresses

Progressing at a blisteringly slow pace, the drive to abolish Saturday classes continues to struggle along. Pinckney Whitson, who along
with fellow senior Graham Yarborough instigated the move, reported that the petitions seen on dorm and fraternity walls urging an
end to Saturday classes would not be submitted to the faculty in the near future. “The faculty is too much
involved in the Self-Study and the faculty vote problem, so we can’t tell when the petitions will be submitted,” Whitson
said. “We will also try to coordinate our program with the Student Council report on the abolition of Saturday classes
which will not be ready for a few weeks.” When asked if the delay was stunting the initial spirit behind
the plan, Whitson felt the advantages in waiting for the Student Council report and waiting for the proper time faculty-wise
outweighed any advantage that initiative might have. Whitson also said that very little trouble is being had with the collection
of the petitions, although it has been slower than expected. “We're leaving the one up in the Union to make
sure everybody signs who wants to sign,” Whitson added. A petition was also placed on the faculty bulletin board but
someone tore it down.

PHONE HAS CONTROL PANEL LOOK Complete With Weird Hangup Device New Union Phone Has Unusual Appearance

By AL VARNER Davidsonian Feature Writer

It looks like a big, vertical aquarium, but all it really is is a new phone booth. The all-glass edifice,
which now stands in the basement of the Union, is one of the six new phones recently installed on the
campus. The booth is the same size as the old models but its four sides are glass and the phone
itself is one of the new panel models, placed diagonally in the corner of the booth. And rather than being
steel, painted brown or black, the phone is an attractive gray color and is made out of metal alloy. The
real novelty of the thing, though, is found only by getting in it and making a call. First of all,
the door opens on the right, unlike the old booths, and you usually find yourself trying to get through a
hinge. Once this obstacle is realized and overcome, you get inside and sit down on the padded seat. This doesn't
sound like much, but just like Pavlov's dogs, people are used to hard seats in pay phone booths. Then you
can play with the new type of coin return, the plastic dial, or the funny way the hangup device works.
All this while 50 people walk by and stare at you as if you were undressing. Some even put their
greasy hands on the glass and it angers you that they would mess up “your” phone booth, which is incidentally,
the first of its kind in this area. Even Charlotte doesn't have one yet. The glass monster, along with the
other five phones, has an unlisted number. The explanation offered by a phone company representative is that the company has
been losing money on the dormitory phones and they see this as a way to increase profits—unlisted numbers will decrease
the number of nonpaying incoming calls. Many people have wondered, though, how the company could possibly be losing money on
the present system, since they have at times been known to swallow a third of the dimes which should be
returned. When asked about problems encountered by campus users, such as losing money and inability to reach operators at certain
times, the spokesman could offer no explanation. But the new additions to the campus telephone family have operated faultlessly, “And
the fact that the new one has been accepted by the students is evidenced by the phone number someone has
already scratched on its face.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MYERS TELLS OF EARLIER LIFE Including Abortions, Illegitimate, Alcoholic, Cook

Sig Eps Place First In Blood Competition

By JIM COOLEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson students contributed 238 of the 257 pints of blood donated to the American Red Cross Bloodmobile during its two-day
visit to Johnston Gymnasium Monday and Tuesday. In fraternity competition which highlighted the visit, Sigma Phi Epsilon placed first with
49 percent participation.in the drive. Second place went to Kappa Alpha, with 46 percent of its members donating. Sigma Nu
was third with 40 percent. Capt. J. B. Crawley of the ROTC Department termed the drive “successful, considering the number
of sports which are going on at the time.” He added that Red Cross officials have indicated that Davidson has
an excellent chance of winning an American Red Cross award for the third year in succession. If successful in competition
among other colleges in the area, Davidson will retire the award. Notification of the winning school will be made Jan.
1. ROTC students were eligible to obtain 10 merits by donating blood and also attending drill on Tuesday afternoon. Several
students who could not give blood assisted with the drive in order to obtain the merits. To promote the campaign,
no physical education classes met either Monday or Tuesday.

FOR The Gift THAT MEASURES Up TO your Love

Take a gift home for Dad. He will appreciate a Gant Shirt, Alan Paine Sweaters, Corbin Slacks, Weejuns, or English
Club Tie. From all three Natural Shoulder Shops. Use your automatic charge account at Tate-Brown’s 126 SOUTH TRYON—3rd FLOOR Cotswold
— West Mall Park Road Shopping Center

“I think everyone worked very hard,” Capt. Crawley surmised. “They entered with the proper spirit of participation and bled for
the cause.”

Dave Clark (Continued From Page One) was enjoying this one, except that he wished there could be a “little more
sun.” Payton said that he always enjoyed touring in America but observed that, in general, “American life moves faster and
has less purpose than English life.” Mike Smith seems to be the comedian of the group. When he was asked
what the most decisive break in his career was, he answered, “Oh, I suppose my mother meeting my father.” When
one reporter asked him if he ever got tired of the constant adulation of teenage girls, he smiled, “Would you?”
Later, when the group appeared on a darkened stage wearing luminous shirts, the girls in the audience almost went into
a frenzy. They bombarded the stage with paper and candy and stood up, screaming and waving. Their parents and boyfriends
remained seated, looking as if they didn't know exactly what to do.

By HEYWARD CARTER Davidsonian Feature Editor

Davidson had a most unusual visitor Wednesday night at Open End in the person of Edward Bellamy. Dead for 67
years, Bellamy came as Joe Myers, who is very much among the living. Myers is a parapsychologist from Charlotte who
has devoted his life (this one, at least) to the study of those things which man has no sensory knowledge
of and which he usually terms mere superstition—the supernatural. Myers was not always such a dedicated seeker after the unknown;
rather, he was at one time an extremely orthodox Christian who was even preaching in church at the age of
15. At 10 years of age, Myers was converted to Christianity in an experience which “lives in my mind like
it occurred five minutes ago.” It was this conversion which Myers says “gave me a reason for trying to be
one of the good guys.”

BELIEFS CHANGE

But this fervid religious belief did not last too long, for Myers at the age of 20 “decided that Christianity
didn’t have anything to it.” After this decision, the only time Myers went to church “was to get married,” and
the insecurity and unsureness with which he now faces life drove him to the point that he could no longer
tolerate existence. Although he was financially and outwardly well off, his family and personal relationships had deteriorated to such a
point that he decided that he “had to commit suicide or do something equivalent to it.” Believing it would be
the coward’s way out to take his life physically, Myers gave up his life in psychic research. Because he had
been so close to death and had not believed in a life afterwards, he now thought that he should investigate
this possibility.

MUCH STUDY

Myers studied parapsychology at a tremendous rate for months after this, and his studies have not ceased. He is very
well versed on almost any subject from biology to the Bible. During the first months of his “obsession,” Myers studied
a minimum of 16 books a week. From 10 a.m. until 2 a.m., he would search for some sort of
knowledge in his chosen field, averaging four hours of sleep a night. As Myers came to the study of Edgar
Cayce, a noted figure in the realm of the supernatural, he developed the firm belief that there were worlds or
spheres of knowledge other than that of the material world. He described himself as being forced to study the supernatural
because “I couldn’t turn away from it.”

REINCARNATION

From his studies of Cayce, Myers formed the belief that there is such a thing as reincarnation, that man progresses
from life to life, and that the “conscious mind only represents a single step in the evolution of man. Man
moves through all the life experiences it is possible to have before he gains maturity.” Myers added that some men
die and then are sent to a sort of purgatory, then a heaven, then back to earth for another try
at understanding more fully their purpose on earth as humans. Others, who have been wiser in their stay on earth,
get to choose their next form of life after they die, “with a set of circumstances which will allow him
to develop in those things he should most develop in.” As an example, Myers offered what he believes to be
some of his own experiences on earth in previous lives. He felt that at some past time he had been
a man named Edward Bellamy, a lawyer and a “pioneer in new things,” much as he is now. This man
had written a book, in fact, about the unknown, called Looking Backward. A check was made and it was proved
that Edward Bellamy, who died in 1898, had lived just as Myers described and that he looked almost exactly like
Myers.

AFTER BELLAMY

Since he was Bellamy, Myers claims to have been aborted twice and once the illegitimate son of a New York
prostitute. This he feels is because he needed to experience these things because of wrongs committed in some other life
by fathering illegitimate children. Similarly, Myers has been an alcoholic and it took him over a half dozen lives to
kick the habit. His present proficiency in cooking he attributes to the acquiring of that art while he was an
Italian woman living about 130 AD. During this life, Myers claimed that he “had a whole string of babies (I'm
a natural with them),” but later turned somewhat promiscuous.

“ISN'T THERE ANYONE WHO KNOWS WHAT CHRISTMAS IS ALL ABOUT?”

SURE! READ “A CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS”

Charles M. Schulz’s newest cartoon book, “A CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS,” is a heartwarming, truly delightful Christmas story, a perfect gift
for both youngsters and oldsters. 48 pages, full-color throughout, $2.50.

THE STUDENT STORE

CHICKEN Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches Daily Food Specials TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A
KING Small and Large PIZZAS 50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS Eat Under Tropical Palms TASTE FREEZ MOORESVILLE
