PAGE SIX WILDCAT HANDBOOK

Upperclassmen will choose between juniors Gary DeVane and Alva Whitehead for editor of the ‘Wildcat Handbook after Monday’s assembly. Both
candidates served on the staff of this year’s Handbook. They were nominated by Britt Snider, 1965 editor, and were approved
by the Publications Board.

DeVane handled the orientation section of the current Handbook. He is a hall counselor and a member of Alpha Tau
Omega. His hometown is Merritt Island, Fla. Whitehead, associate editor for 1965, is from Lake City, S.C. He is a
member of the Honor Court and of Pi Kappa Alpha.

In his platform, DeVane calls for a broadening of the scope of the Handbook to “become a comprehensive source of
information, advice, and enlightenment” for freshmen. He proposed several new features, including an evaluation of the rush system, a calendar
of Union activities, flickerball rules, “good” maps of Charlotte and Davidson, and up-to-date telephone numbers of nearby colleges.

Whitehead, stressing his experience as associate editor, pledges to continue the Handbook’s two roles as a “handy reference guide” for
upperclassmen and as an “explanation” for freshmen. He promises to try to increase the size of the book, to solve
the problems of missing pictures, to set earlier deadlines, and to include new features such as a new map of
Davidson and revised telephone listings.

The complete platforms are as follows:

DeVane:
I would like to endorse the 1965 Wildcat Handbook but in so doing, also state that it is time for
a change in the format and scope of this publication. In the past, the Handbook has served primarily as a
rush aid for upperclassmen and as an introduction to college campus leaders, the faculty and administration, and school regulations for
incoming freshmen. Because of the delayed rush, it can no longer function merely as an orientation and college policy guide
with some pertinent but often irrelevant comment. The sphere of the Wildcat Handbook must be broadened so that it will
become a comprehensive source of information, advice, and enlightenment for the freshman throughout the long first semester when he has
no one to turn to for many questions concerning social, scholastic, or campus functions and activities. I would suggest that
of foremost importance should be a thorough evaluation and explanation of the rush system which eventually evolves out of this
year's disorder. The freshmen want to know about fraternities, both pro and con, but really have nowhere to turn presently.
An outline of the activities which the College Union has to offer with special emphasis and information concerning the Social
Council including a social calendar, correct and up-to-date telephone numbers of nearby colleges, bus schedules, and “good” maps of Charlotte
and Davidson would be invaluable.

Whitehead:
The Wildcat Handbook in the past has proved to be of irreplaceable value to the freshman and to upperclassmen. For
the freshmen, it is the first complete, student-oriented explanation of the "ins and outs” of everyday Davidson life. For the
upperclassmen, it is a handy reference guide. The integration of these two purposes will be continued. Last year, because of
the increasing cost of the handbook, its size had to be limited to 116 pages. If feasible, I would like
to see the size increased this year, but I realize that certain monetary problems are involved. I agree with Tom
Craig, who wrote a criticism of the Handbook earlier this year, that a new map of Davidson keyed for use
in faculty visitation and dance weekends would prove helpful. It is time that the telephone listings be revised. I know
several new phones have been put in at Queens, and probably other schools, including Davidson. These should be placed in
a more strategic place so that you do not have to thumb through the book several times to find them.
The problem of missing pictures cannot be solved unless the freshmen will send in the pictures. I will contact them
earlier this year and send letters to certain freshmen emphasizing the value often placed on these by upperclassmen and, in
some cases, by girls’ schools. As with any publication, some work tends to be put off until the last minute.
I will have deadlines earlier in the year providing the different section editors ample opportunity to revise their sections if
it is necessary. There are, of course, certain things which cannot be done until the last minute. Having worked with
Britt Snider last year on these problems of edition, I think I understand how to handle them when they arise.

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bryan, Hopkins, MacCormac, Secor, Cole, Lindsey, Mebane, Stevens, Cumming, Logan, Parker, Walker, Ghigo, McGeachy, Plott, Wruck, Hayes, Maloney, Rhodes, Johnston,
F. W., Williams, T. T., Roe.

Freshmen Elect Miller, Social Representatives
Bayard Miller from Gainesville, Fla., was elected president of the Freshman Council at its weekly meeting, Wednesday night. Elected as
representatives from the Freshman Council to the Social Council were Johnny Clarksville, Tenn., and Dr. de Vyver Stresses Education In
Economics

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Since everyone tries to be his own economist, everyone should study economics so that he will not make a mess
of his own affairs. This was the message Dr. Frank T. de Vyver pressed upon the Davidson student body in
chapel Tuesday. As the keynoter of a series of talks on economics and to illustrate his point, de Vyver exploded
several of the major “myths” of economics. The popular opinion that increasing overtime pay by 100% will decrease unemployment was
quickly bombed by de Vyver. He zeroed in with the answer that there is already too much overtime, “and instead
we should create more jobs.” De Vyver's own experience as vice-president of Erwin Mills served him well as he sniped
at the assumption that low pay yields lower costs. His mill in North Carolina averaged $1.30 per hour pay, while
the one in Mississippi averaged $.70. He continued, “The denim produced in Mississippi was twice as expensive as the denim
produced in North Carolina.” Similarly treated were such adages as “All government deposits create inflation,” “Trade unions are bad,” “All
government spending is bad,” and “The economy of the individual is the same as the nation.” Some of those are
obvious even to those of us who are “ignorant,” but others must be explained and, whether or not he meant
to, de Vyver did not. Maybe we do need a little education in economics.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA La Roma
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at Ristoranti
THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE’S
“Just up the road....”Robert Theobald, prominent British socio-economist, will inaugurate this year's YMCA forum on “The Prospects for Man" Tuesday
through Thursday. Theobald’s most recent work has been focused on the implications of cybernetics for the societies and the economics
of both rich and poor world areas and for the relations between these areas. Theobald was born and raised in
India, holds an MA degree from Cambridge, England, and did post-graduate work at Harvard. In 1957 he left the Organization
for European Economic Cooperation and his work on comparative productivity, in order to devote the bulk of his time to
studying the effects of abundance on the scarcity-organized American socio-economy.

GARY DEVANE

The calendar for the first semester should be presented. Such practical items as Mickerball rules, a good map of Charlotte
and Davidson itself, bus schedules to and from Charlotte, or even how and where to rent a car might be
helpful to not only freshmen but to upperclassmen as well. Equally helpful might be a personal statement by the coaches
about the last season and dates for fall practice. Finally, phone numbers of nearby colleges should be included. In conclusion,
I believe that the Wildcat Handbook should be basically a source of information and guidance for continued freshman consumption throughout
the year.

Bobby Vagt, Naugatuck, Conn.

Craig Wilson, Greenville, N.C., had been previously elected secretary. Dave Powell, freshman advisor, announced that the Faculty Committee on Fraternities,
Clubs, and Social Life had agreed to meet with the Freshman Council or its representatives to discuss the request to
delay acceptance of bids until several days after returning from the Christmas holidays. Miller said that he naturally considered it
quite an honor to be elected president. “Right now,” he said, “I don't have any definite plans about what I
would like the council to do, but I would like to see it work closely with the faculty in evaluating
and straightening out the rush system.”

Rush Wilson, Ltd. wishes to take this opportunity to welcome all Alumni back to Davidson College for Homecoming Activities. Good
Luck ‘Cats!

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1965

Buttrick Urges Gamble In Committing Faith

For a man of “133 going on 134,” Dr. George Buttrick offered a rather modern analogy at chapel last Monday.
Laying the odds like an experienced bookie, Dr. Buttrick compared life to gambling. “Everything is a gamble,” according to Dr.
Buttrick. “You must gamble — It’s life.” However, “nothing is a blind bet. A gamble is always drawn by certain
beckonings.” A Christian may gamble his life in various ways, Dr. Buttrick maintained. Because they may think that “God really
doesn’t matter,” some people may spend their lives in petty gambles. On the other hand, “we may gamble as Christ
gambled.” “Christ was the great adventurer,” Dr. Buttrick said, “who calls us to get rid of petty gambling by taking
a really big chance in committing our lives.”

According to Dr. Buttrick, every human being must take a stand somewhere. No human being can agree with everything he
sees and hears. The problem then is not the choice to gamble, for every man gambles, but a choice of
what one is to gamble on. Bringing the problem closer to home, Dr. Buttrick said, “As soon as you go
through that door you're going to treat your roommate either this way or that way.” Thus we see that the
choice must be made.

Memorial Services Conducted Here

Memorial services were held here yesterday for Lt. (j.g.) Porter A. Halyburton, 24, a 1963 graduate of Davidson College and
a native of Davidson, who was killed in action in South Viet Nam Sunday. He was the son of Mrs.
Katharine Porter Halyburton, assistant to the publicity director of the college, and the grandson of Professor Emeritus and Mrs. William
Lorimer Porter. He was married to the former Miss Martha Carrell Duerson, a former Dana Scholar at Queens College. A
daughter, Dabney Lorimer, is six months old. Officiating at the worship services yesterday at St. Albans Episcopal Church was the
Rev. William Morris, assisted by the Rev. Will Terry, chaplain of the college.

His publications include The Rich and The Poor and The Challenge of Abundance, as well as two overseas investment handbooks
and several books. The forum will begin on Tuesday night with an economics class taught by Theobald. This will be
followed on Wednesday morning with a lecture in chapel and a coffee discussion hour. Wednesday afternoon Dr. Ernest Patterson will
moderate a panel discussion between the speaker and Professors Alan Brinkley, Richard Gift, W. J. Hayes, and Philip Secor. Theobald
will debate Dr. Stephen W. Rousseau, professor of economics at New York University, at 8 p.m. Wednesday. Theobald proposes an
amendment to the Constitution giving a guaranteed income of a determinable amount to all those who have resided in the
United States for five years or longer. Contrary to the implications of this statement, Rousseau has labeled Theobald's overall thesis
as middle-class, conservative bias. Dr. Rousseau is a well-known economist having taught at Columbia, Yale, and Cornell universities. He is
currently completing a book, The Political Dilemmas of American Capitalism. The first portion of “The Prospects For Man” forum will
conclude Thursday with personal interviews with Theobald at 9 a.m. in the Blue Room of the Union and a 2
p.m. informal discussion in the Morrison Room. Jack Martens and Jay Federman, chairmen of the 1965 YMCA forum, promise interesting
and varied speakers for the remainder of the forum and emphasize the general freedom for discussion allowed by the title.

The Young Man in the Know knows “Dacron.” Looks great any place, any time in a wrinkle-resisting poplin raincoat of
65% Dacron polyester, 35% combed cotton. Tan, black, muted plaids at fine stores everywhere. *Du Pont's registered trademark.

Better Living through Chemistry

He's helping young men plan today for a better life tomorrow. He's your Southwestern Life College Representative — and he
has specially-designed life insurance policies to fit your own individual needs today, tomorrow, and in the years ahead. They're new-idea
plans created by one of the nation’s leading life insurance companies especially for, and only for, college seniors and graduate
students pursuing professional degrees. He's an easy person to talk with, and what he has to tell you about these
policies can make a lot of difference in your future. Talk with him when he calls — give him an
opportunity to be “Your Friend for Life.” There's never any obligation.

MIKE CARITHERS
201 S. Tryon — 376-8588
representing...
Southwestern Life
1407 Broadway, N.Y. 16
A Division of Burlington Industries.

Campus revolution! Slacks that never need ironing—never! Galey and Lord permanent press fabrics of polyester and cotton. Stay neat—however washed!
Galey-Lord
