PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1965

Spotlight On SPORTS
By ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Sports Editor

SCHEDULING

Rumors are about lately that Davidson football is going big-time—schedule-wise—in the near future. Latest story is that Duke is on the schedule for 1971. Asked if this were true, Head Coach Homer Smith could only offer a non-committal, “I wish it were.” The mentor then went on to explain his ideas about scheduling and what has been done, in this line, to improve Davidson’s stature in the football world. It all revolves around competition in the Southern Conference, an already frequently-mentioned point. “We can't compete successfully in this conference as long as we're a minor school and all the others are major schools,” states Smith. To be listed a major school (NCAA, University Division) a team must have a majority of its schedule comprised of major schools. This year only four of our opponents, The Citadel, William and Mary, VMI, and George Washington, meet these qualifications, so Davidson is classified a minor school (NCAA, College Division). The situation is not yet settled for next year, but in 1967 and all years afterward the team will have achieved major college status. Smith’s main objective is to win the Southern Conference. But, in so doing he doesn’t intend that anyone will be able to claim it was done with a skimpy conference schedule. That's why West Virginia is on the docket in 1967. “We just don’t want to pass over anybody,” he said. VMI and William and Mary are more natural opponents. “We'd like to play them every year,” allowed the coach. Furthermore, East Carolina, another conference foe, will be added to the schedule next year. The coach went on, “To get the men we need to compete with these teams, we're going to have to play some teams that are way out of our class. In other words, to attract the top recruits, Davidson must show these boys it intends to play major college football. For this reason Smith hopes to schedule for next year a strong major college team. Although displaying his usual persistence with reference to improving Davidson’s schedule, the coach was quick to point out that this is within the realm of opponents that offer natural rivalries for Davidson. A major consideration is the entrance requirements of opposing schools. Two present rivals that meet these standards are Lafayette and Bucknell. Both are small schools and have programs “similar to ours.” Also, Lafayette is a church school. Finally, there’s the question of the Ivy League. Suffice it to say that one representative of that group, Colgate, is already on a future schedule. Maybe more will be added someday. It may be some time before the Wildcats line up against Army, or Georgia Tech, or Auburn, as in the distant past, but much progress has already been made in buoying up Davidson’s foundering football program. Look for much more in the near future.

MORE ON THE TOE

Ever since they widened the goal posts back in 1958, college football has been a different game. A fellow named Ed Dyas, who kicked for Auburn, was the talk of the nation that year. Before those times a kicking specialist was just about unheard of. For instance, Dick Cristy’s famous after-the-gun field goal that beat South Carolina and won the 1957 ACC title for State was the first the flashy halfback had ever attempted. Today field goals are short work, and kicking specialists are about as abundant as managers. The odd thing is how one of the best happened to land here at Davidson. One thing for sure, Jim Terry is one of the best. Coach Smith calls him “one of the four or five best kickers in the country.” Ample evidence of this is his record of 31 straight successful extra point conversions. Long strings seem to have a way of protecting themselves. Smith relates that the ball for one of Terry’s points-after in the Lehigh game was not even on the tee when he hit it. Holder Jimmy Poole still had one end of the ball in his right hand when Terry put the toe to it. Though he has already broken the Southern Conference consecutive-extra-point record, Terry has little chance at the national record. Charlie Gogolak, who kicks soccer-style for the rampaging Princeton Tigers, has 44 and still has two games left. But it’s not the record that matters anyway, according to Smith. People should watch Terry, not to see a record set, but “just for the pleasure of watching a superb athlete perform.” Terry could probably perform for many more years. His coach sees him as a sure bet to succeed in the pros if he wanted to, and goes on to say, “Jim could earn a living kicking professionally until he’s 40 years old.”

THE RECORD

In 1924 and 1926 Davidson won seven games. That’s the most a Davidson team has won. In ‘26 they shut out Duke, Carolina, and State and tied Wake Forest to win the mythical state championship. That’s the only championship they’ve ever won. The ’Cats can win seven again this year if they take the last three. I'll take a chance and predict that they do. They've equaled another record this year: most Southern Conference victories in one season—two. Two isn’t enough and all the 7-3’s in the world won’t obscure that fact. A Conference success is the only real key to overall success. But that record probably won't last much longer, anyhow. And meanwhile, a 7-3 will do for a starter.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
BILLY TAYLOR BLASTS THROUGH LINE
‘Cats Fullback Breaks Loose In Victory Over Lehigh

Kittens Edged By Furman

Davidson's Wildkittens fashioned an exciting climax to their 1965 season with a flurry of second-half touchdowns against Furman; however, the tallies came too late to avert a 27-20 defeat. Coach Homer Smith, in view of the spirited team effort, termed the defeat “... tragic. If we had worked on stopping their option plays, the outcome would have been in our favor.” The Wildkittens’ failure to halt Furman’s accurate passing was instrumental in the loss. Alternating quarterbacks, the Paladins struck through the air lanes for three of their four tallies and most of their yardage. Undaunted, however, the Wildkittens strove to rally from the 0-21 halftime deficit. With the line gouging out holes for fullback Mike Thorton, the freshmen moved to three touchdowns with their best offensive showing of the year. For the freshmen, Karry Keith climaxed a long drive after the second-half kick-off with a short scoring run. Later Thorton dashed 30 yards for a touchdown. In the final seconds, Rick Simonson whipped a pass to John Schimmel for the final score. In commenting on the freshmen season, Coach Smith expressed regret over “an unfortunate schedule, one that was determined before I got here. The Freshmen had to be pressed into duty in preparing the varsity for their games, and did not have time to work together.”

1965-1966 VARSITY BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

Wed. Dec. 1 Wake Forest Charlotte Coliseum
Sat. 4 Bucknell Davidson
Tues. 7 Furman Davidson
Thurs. 9 Marquette Charlotte Coliseum
Sat. 11 East Carolina Davidson
Tues. 14 VMI Lexington, Va.
Sat. 18 Dartmouth Davidson
Tues. 21 Ohio University Charlotte Coliseum

CHARLOTTE INVITATIONAL TOURNAMENT
Tues. 28 Charlotte Coliseum
Wed. 29 Davidson Miss. State Princeton Navy

Sat. Jan. 1 William and Mary Charlotte Coliseum
Tues. 4 U. of Richmond Richmond, Va.
Sat. 8 West Virginia Charlotte Coliseum
Tues. 11 The Citadel Davidson
Sat. 15 Furman Greenville, S. C.
Sat. 29 Wake Forest Greensboro, N. C.
Wed. Feb. 2 West Virginia Charleston, W. Va.
Sat. 5 VMI Davidson
Tues. 8 Richmond Davidson
Sat. 12 New York University Charlotte Coliseum
Fri. 18 St. Joseph Charlotte Coliseum
Sat. 19 The Citadel Charleston, S. C.

13 OF 19 Poole’s Passes Click
By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

You enter the game fresh as the holder for a fake field goal-pass play, your team trailing by a touchdown. What do you do? If you are Jimmy Poole, you...Coach Homer fired a touchdown pass to put the ‘Cats on the scoreboard and then proceeded to put on one of the greatest offensive displays at Richardson Field in some time. “Jimmy's performance hardly needs comment. His was one of the best individual performances by an offensive player. Though I expect it to be bettered in turn, I salute him for his performance. I was thrilled for him, as was everyone on the team.” Not only did he complete 13 of 19 pass attempts for 175 yards in less than three quarters, but he also scrambled for 55 yards in 13 running attempts.

The toughest moments came not when he entered the game, but when, as Poole stated, “I heard one of their linemen say, ‘Watch the fake.’ That made it pretty bad. I didn’t have too much confidence.” “I think the most outstanding point,” related Coach Smith, “was the big zero under ‘had intercepted.’ As a matter of fact, he had Ken Kendall yelling to him when he was open, which was an awful lot.”

A source of quite a bit of speculation is Poole’s stance, in which he barely appears over the center. Poole explains that he employs a low stance only when Walter Green centers because “Walter's so low that you have to get down low to get your hands up under him.”

It is with a sense of great satisfaction that followers of Davidson football view Poole’s progress. The main way he has improved, perhaps, is that he has recovered his strength after being sick last year. He has worked hard to strengthen his arm, and now it is paying off. On Poole’s improvement, Coach Smith feels that “Jimmy improves with every practice. He has improved through his own effort and patience. Everything requires patience to improve.”

Poole works hard all the time in practice. In hot competition with one whose pass percentage is close to 80 percent (Jake Jacobsen), he has to. He works hard studying the various game plans and is “an extremely cool head in a football game,” inspiring a great amount of team spirit.

While at North Mecklenburg High School, Poole established himself as one of the top-notch quarterbacks in the area. A 5'10" junior, Poole intends to major in psychology. In regard to the season in general, the friendly Charlottean said, “I thought we played well all along. It just showed up Saturday.” It certainly showed in Mr. Poole.

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

‘Cats Travel To Lafayette; Leopards’ Den

Tomorrow’s game with Lafayette at Easton, Pa., may provide a few surprises for the ‘Cats. Last year Davidson walloped Lafayette 31-12, but this season the Leopards pose a real threat. “Lafayette has one of the most improved teams I have ever seen,” commented Coach Homer Smith. “Last year they won no games, but this season the Leopards have downed Columbia, Bucknell, and Rutgers.”

This season Lafayette boasts a whole new squad. The starting lineup contains eleven sophomores and only two seniors. Most Eastern papers rate Lafayette above Lehigh. Recently Lafayette Coach Kenneth Bunn called his football team, “the best group of athletes ever assembled at Lafayette.”

Leading the Leopards’ attack will be quarterback Gary Marshall, a 175-pound junior from Binghamton, New York. As a sub last season, Marshall hit his receiver 36 times in 73 attempts for a total of 325 yards. Manning the backfield slots on offense will be sophomores Bill Messick, Chris Yanegar, and Joel Crossrow. As freshmen, the trio gained more yards rushing in four games than the entire varsity did in nine.

A fine group of ends is the strong point of the Lafayette line. Juniors Dave Brown and Gabe Washo hold down the starting positions. Last year Brown was the team's leading pass receiver, hauling down 35 tosses for 468 yards. The interior line is Lafayette's weakness. Tom Rosenberg, a 220-pound center from Lititz, Pa., is the only returning letterman there. Coach Bunn will have to start four sophomores, David Sawyer, Dick Ronchi, John Watusik, and Tom Klein, in the line positions. These linemen average 215 pounds per man.

Coach Smith will call on junior quarterback Jimmy Poole to spark the ‘Cat attack. Anchoring the ‘Cat defense will be container Pack Hindsley and cornerback Tommy Dews. The defense will again be without the services of George Solley and Dick Short. Both Short and Solley were sidelined last week due to injuries.

The game tomorrow marks the second time the two teams have met on the gridiron. Davidson presently holds a 1-0 edge. The team left Davidson today by jet for Newark, N.J., and then motored to Easton.

Footballers Win Over Engineers

Davidson’s Wildcats regained the formula for winning football with quarterback Jimmy Poole piloting a strong ‘Cat offense to three offensive records as they downed Lehigh last Saturday 37-23. Poole’s 230 yards total offense is a Davidson football record. A new record for team-passes-completed was set as 18 aerials found the mark. Twenty-three first downs tied the record for the most in a single game.

Lehigh’s defense bothered the Wildcat offense by stunting in the middle of the line early in the game. However, once the line began to open holes through this stunting defense, the backs were able to gain yardage easily. The Gurkha defensive unit got stronger with practically every minute of the game. At first, Lehigh was able to get outside a few times by using the spread end to block down on the cornerback. This was how the Engineers got their first score. Their other points were obtained by capitalizing on mental lapses by the ‘Cat defense.

Coach Homer Smith said that the victory should not be called a comeback. “Lehigh was the weakest team on the schedule. There was a great difference between their talent and the strength of William and Mary, VMI, or George Washington.”

Kendall Top Catcher

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“It sure feels good to get back in the win column,” remarked Wildcat end Ken Kendall. “We're back on the rise now, and I hope we'll be able to keep winning.”

Kendall, a leader in Wildcat scoring and offense, has played an important part in Davidson's overall football improvement this year. Saturday, in the Lehigh win, he took the third-quarter scoring toss from Jimmy Poole and broke the Engineers’ 16-16 tie. Kendall is currently fourth in scoring standings, with 18 points, behind Steve Smith, Billy Taylor, and Jim Terry, each of whom have 24 tallies. Having grabbed 21 passes for 220 yards and three touchdowns, Kendall is the ‘Cats leading pass receiver; Bill Rikard, however, is close behind with 20 catches, 247 yards, and one score.

Kendall grinned, “I guess my biggest thrill in football is catching passes like the touchdown pass in last week's Lehigh game. And since we pass a good bit this year, I have some fine opportunities in the games.”

Kendall began playing football in junior high school, working at center until his senior year at South Mecklenburg High School in Charlotte. During his last season there, he was shifted to end by his coach Bob Patton, a 1954 Davidson graduate, but unfortunately, he could aid his team to only a 4-5-1 record. Upon coming to Davidson last fall, Kendall saw action in the Wildkittens’ 2-3 season and then became one of the original players under the new regime of Coach Homer Smith.

“There is no similarity at all between this year’s team and last year’s group,” remarked Kendall. “I think what caused us the most trouble after the first three games was that we couldn't get up for two games in a row (The Citadel and William and Mary). Of course, that week layoff around October 9 didn’t help us any, but I don't think it hurt us extremely.”