FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SACKETT SUCCEEDS Von Unwerth Resigns IFC Chair | By JAMIE BRYANT Davidsonian Staff Writer

IFC President Rick von Unwerth stepped down from his position at the Monday meeting and was succeeded by Fred Sackett,
who was the council’s vice-president. Sackett called for a meeting last Wednesday night of the representatives and the fraternity presidents
to prepare a statement to the faculty’s Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life. Sackett, who succeeds von Unwerth as
president until the elections on April 12, said, “I deeply regret Rick's resignation as IFC President, for I feel he
has done a tremendous job this year, and the successes, new ideas, and expanded role of the IFC can be
credited to him.”

THIRTEEN TAPPED Honorary Pre-Meds Pick Junior

Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary (pre-medical) fraternity, tapped 13 juniors for membership recently. Initiated were Paul Ambrose, Bobby Austin, John Burks,
Billy Clark, John Crawford, John Davis, Jay Federman, Lewis Foss, George Gibbons, Tom McKenzie, Robert Powell, Steve Rostan, and Paul
Simpson. To be eligible for membership, a student must have completed three semesters of (pre-medical) work and must have maintained
both an overall “B” average and a “B” average in the sciences. The object of AED is to encourage and
recognize excellence in pre-medical scholarship, to provide interesting programs concerning medicine for all students, and to provide pre-medical underclassmen with
assistance concerning their future as a pre-medical major.

Teacher From Japan

“However, I respect his statement that he does not believe in, and can no longer conscientiously defend, the existence of
a fraternity system at Davidson. The president of the IFC, by virtue of his position, is a member of the
faculty Committee on Fraternities, Social Life and Clubs. Rick submitted his resignation because, as president of the IFC, he would
be representing a system which he could not conscientiously defend, and would thus be denying the system its privilege.”

Von Unwerth Explains Resignation Reasons

Rick von Unwerth, who resigned from the IFC presidency Monday night, issued the following statement: “For the past eleven months,
it has been my great privilege to serve Davidson College and her students as President of the Interfraternity Council. I
have never failed, during these months, to be grateful for the honor nor mindful of the responsibility that fell to
me as a result of my election to this office. In my capacity as IFC President, I have attempted to
seek out my duty and discharge it—to serve Davidson's fraternities—to the very best of my abilities. Because of my position,
I was appointed, four months ago, to serve on the Fraternity Evaluation Committee. As a member of that committee, I
became one of twelve individuals asked to consider carefully an issue of vast and vital importance to Davidson. In that
position, I have likewise attempted to understand my responsibility, and to discharge my obligation to Davidson within the limitations of
my best ability and with my total energy. The scope of the evaluation itself as a committee revealed something substantially
broader than the well-being of a system of fraternities: larger still than the institution called fraternity. The concern of the
committee was rooted in a concern for the life of the individual at Davidson. I have felt, and continue to
feel, that the increased dimension of the committee's inquiry laid the responsibility on me, as a participant in that inquiry,
to broaden my concern accordingly. I have found no more eloquent statement of the dilemma of the Davidson fraternity man
than these words from the editor of the DAVIDSONIAN: ‘Our concern is not with the relative standing of fraternity systems.
Rather our attention is fixed on the overall impact of fraternities and the fraternity system on the life of the
Davidson student, the essence of Davidson College.’ With this concern as my focus, and with the ‘Christian, democratic, and educational
aspirations of the College’ written into our tradition as they are, I could not, in good conscience, fail to support
the premise, the subsequent evaluation of the problem, and the consequent proposals for solution of the problem set forth in
the committee report. The question, as I see it, is not whether fraternities are good or bad, but rather what
is best for Davidson. Our fraternity system is a good one, and for eleven months I have devoted my energy
to making it even better. I do not believe, however, that a good fraternity system is the be-all and end-all
of small college society. I think Davidson can do better; indeed, must do better if she is to live up
to her aims and goals. Finally, I believe that my stated position is nowhere inconsistent with my obligation as a
member of the Davidson community; nor has it been inconsistent with my duty and my desire to serve Davidson students
through the fraternity system, as long as it has been my privilege to do so within the system as it
is presently constituted. In my eleven months as President of the IFC, and in my four months with the Fraternity
Evaluation Committee, I have encountered a measure of responsibility which I have discharged conscientiously, although not without error and oversight
in the process. For my shortcomings, I apologize. I will remain firm in my conviction, however, that the exclusive fraternity
as an institution can no longer be justified in perpetrating a tyranny over the social structure of Davidson College, and
that it must be removed from its throne with all possible expediency.”

WORKING VERY WELL White Extols Placement Tests

“One of the most encouraging signs of real improvement in our educational system," James B. Conant, noted educator and former
president of Harvard, said about the Advanced Placement Program. “Great deals!" is a Davidson freshman’s comment on the same subject.
The Advanced Placement Program is a project begun in 1955 by the College Entrance Examination Board as a means of
eliminating a waste of time and energy and of enabling a college freshman to avoid duplicating a course he has
taken and done well in while in high school. By taking the Advanced Placement Examination he may receive credit for
this course when he enters college. There are 12 Advanced Placement Examinations—American History, Biology, Chemistry, English, European History, French, German,
Latin 4 and 5, Math, Physics and Spanish—each of which takes approximately three hours. They are usually taken at the
student’s high school and are graded by a committee appointed by the Educational Testing Service. After being graded on a
five-point scale (normally taken to read: 5-high honors; 4-honors; 3-good; 2-credit; 1-no credit) the examinations are returned to the high
school where they were taken and the scores are sent to the college of the student's choice. The cost is
$5 registration and $10 per individual test. College policies vary greatly on the awarding of credit. Most award credit for
grades of 5, 4, or 3, but leave the decision whether to advance the student with a score of 2
up to the department concerned for individual evaluation. Other colleges grant only placement, and a few grant neither placement nor
credit. (Davidson takes 3 as the grade for department reference.) H. Edmunds White, associate director of admissions, is enthusiastic about
the way the program has worked out at Davidson. Davidson has been taking scores for ten years and has found
them, on the whole, accurate indicators of a student's achievement. The growth of the program has also been encouraging, as
in 1964 there were 51 participants, 31 of whom got a 3 or better, while in 1962 there were only
12 applicants getting over a 2. If the candidate scores a 4 or 5 (or, sometimes, a 3) he is
automatically awarded three hours and the same number of quality points. When asked how students who have been advanced have
responded, as a whole, in their classes, White replied that a study has not been taken on this subject yet;
but the majority seem to be doing very well, and only a few are forced to ‘drop back.’ In concluding
that “by and large I think it is working out very well, and I think it is tremendously important that
we award a student who has done college work in high school,” White concurs with the College Entrance Examination Board's
contention that “the Advanced Placement idea is based on the assumption that some twelfth grade students can do college freshman
work, and that achievement, no matter where it occurs, should be recognized and rewarded.”

The Rev. David L. Swain, of the Tokyo Student Christian Fellowship, will speak to the Methodist Student Movement tonight at
6 p.m. at the Davidson Methodist Church and in student assembly Monday. A graduate of Duke University, Swain was director
of the Wesley Foundation at the University of North Carolina before going to Japan. Swain has been assigned to the
Tokyo post since 1953. The Student Christian Fellowship center is operated under the auspices of the United Church of Christ
in Japan. According to Swain, it is a center offering a variety of study opportunities to both Christian and non-Christian
students. “About half my time goes into teaching, including the necessary preparation time, which takes about five times as long
in Japanese,” says Swain. “The remaining time is spent in planning periodic seminars, lectures, worship services, and service projects.” Swain
has served on the District Evangelism Committee of the Tokyo district, the general Board of Evangelism, the National Christian Council
Central Committee, and the Student Evangelism Committee of the Youth Commission.

Mrs. Richey Will Give Violin Concert Sunday

Mrs. Elaine Richey, violinist, will be guest soloist with the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra under the direction of Grier M.
Williams at 4 p.m. Sunday in Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Center. The public is invited to the free program.
Mrs. Richey, a native of Pittsburgh, is a graduate of Oberlin Conservatory. Awarded a scholarship to Curtis Institute of Music
from which she received a Diploma, she was an assistant of Ivan Galamian. Winner of the 1958 Walzer W. Naumburg
Foundation Award, Mrs. Richey came to Davidson with her pianist husband, David F. Richey, in 1960. She has appeared in
many recitals in the southeast and was just recently named the concertmaster of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. In the Sunday
program she will be soloist in the “Autumn” and “Winter” sections of Vivaldi’s “The Seasons.” Other compositions programmed include Mozart’s
“Musical Joke,” Delius’ “Walk to the Paradise Gardens,” and “Matinees Musicales” by Benjamin Britten.To state as completely as possible its
stand, views, and proposals. “I would like to stress that Rick is still a member of the Council,” Sackett said,
“and that I, and the Council accepted Rick's resignation only because of the present situation in regard to fraternities, the
membership on the faculty committee, and Rick's personal convictions regarding the situation at Davidson.” During the meeting Monday, all nine
representatives present unanimously supported the preliminary report by the Fraternity Evaluation Committee which removed all social functions from the IFC.
Sackett commented that its advantages were a larger budget and with a set budget, it could schedule farther in advance
than had the IFC. After the Evaluation Committee’s report was distributed, a representative pointed out that there was not an
authoritative spokesman for the fraternities, pointing out von Unwerth’s inability to represent the fraternities conscientiously. Von Unwerth then read a
prepared statement of his position and suggested that elections be held on March 22 to elect a new president. Sackett
proposed a counter motion that the date for elections remain as set on April 12. The counter proposal was amended
to include the election of a spokesman to the faculty committee. Sackett explained his counter-proposal, “I supported the delayed election
of the officers of the IFC because I feel that continuity of membership on the faculty committee will mean a
great deal in the committee’s being able to best decide on recommendations to submit to the Trustees; and a consistent
stand by the fraternities needs to be expressed to this committee. Had elections been held March 22, the IFC representatives
to the faculty committee would change in the middle of their deliberations. “The results of whatever the committee and faculty
may decide will be known by April 6. The new officers of the IFC will enter into the new year
on April 17 without being handicapped by having to share the responsibility of those results. I feel a more positive
program and attitude will be the result of entering office after the decisions are made.” After Sackett’s appointment as spokesman,
the ambiguity of the IFC President's situation became clear, and von Unwerth submitted his resignation. The Council accorded unanimously a
vote of gratitude to von Unwerth for his work with the council as president. A rough draft of a statement
to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Social Clubs was drafted Wednesday night and taken to the fraternities yesterday. Tonight the
final draft is scheduled for completion and will be submitted Monday to the IFC.

BILL WADE Chicago Bears Quarterback Bill Wade Will Speak, Hold Discussion Period By BOB TRAVERS Davidsonian Staff Writer Bill Wade,
quarterback of the Chicago Bears, will speak in chapel Thursday. There will be a coffee hour for Wade in the
Morrison Room after chapel, and he will participate in an informal discussion in the Union lounge at 11 p.m. Thursday.
Wade, from Nashville, Tennessee, had a spectacular college football career at Vanderbilt University where he was graduated in 1952. Elected
“Most Valuable Player” in the Southeastern Conference, he won the Sportsmanship and “Most Valuable Player” awards at the North South
Shrine Bowl Game at Miami in 1951. In 1952, he played in the College All Star Game and was a
co-captain at the Senior Bowl Game. A member of ODK, Wade was chosen Outstanding College Christian Athlete in 1951, and
in 1952 was voted “Bachelor of Ugliness,” the highest honor a Vanderbilt man can receive. Wade began his professional football
career with the Los Angeles Rams in 1954. He won the “Most Valuable Ram” award in 1958 when he broke
the Rams' records for the number of passes attempted, the number completed, and the record for the most yards gained
passing. He broke the Rams’ record for pass completions in 1959 with 58.4 percent and bettered that the next year
with 58.6 percent. He holds the Rams’ record for the longest touchdown run, 66 yards, accomplished in 1960. Wade was
traded to the Bears in 1961. Passing for 22 touchdowns that year, he completed 54 percent of his attempted passes,
including a 98-yard touchdown pass, second longest in National Football League history. He continued to play for the Bears in
1962, completing 54 percent of his passes and passing for 18 touchdowns. In 1963, he passed for 15 touchdowns and
was chosen All-Pro Quarterback by Sport magazine and “Sports Personality 1963” by the Phoenix Press Box. Wade has won many
honors outside of sports. In 1960, he was voted “Young Man of the Year” by the Nashville Junior Chamber of
Commerce, and was elected to the Board of Directors of Junior Achievement in Nashville. Since 1958 Wade has had a
weekly Saturday night television program in addition to playing professional football.

“Alexander Nevsky” Reviewed By Durand By MICHEL DURAND A Review Though the two movies which have already been shown in
the Film-Friends program are most important because they are landmarks in the history of cinema, one has to admit that
today they seem a little out-of-date. But Alexander Nevsky, the next movie to be shown in the Film-Friends program Tuesday
and Wednesday, baffles time and cannot disappoint any expectation. This grand epic, made 37 years ago and constituting with Cuirassier
Potemkine and Ivan The Terrible the great Eisenstein’s historical trilogy, has a very simple theme. In 1242, almost all Russia
had succumbed under the invasion of the powerful Order of the Teutonic Knights, when Alexander Nevsky, Prince of Novgorod, stopped
and defeated them in a single and fierce battle on the frozen lake Peipus. Eisenstein gave his movie a triple
dimension. First, he developed the historical event of the defense of Novgorod. Then, the movie was enlarged geographically to all
Russia, the victory becoming a symbol of freedom for the whole country. Finally, it was even broadened in time, ending
on a bold warning to any invading nation which might be tempted to imitate the Teutonic Knights. We must think
that in 1938, when the movie was first shown, Hitler had started to invade Eastern Europe; and even now, in
the Cold War, the conclusion may still sound unpleasantly significant for certain nations... Doubtless, the most exciting part of the
movie is the battle itself when thousands of warriors meet in an indescribable and monumental melee. But all the movie
is alive with extraordinary and unforgettable images: the savage scene of the Teutonic Knights burning children in a kind of
expiatory sacrifice; the benediction of the Knights before the battle; their departure to the final assault, as the camera insists
on their slow and invincible heaviness; the bitter loitering on the battlefield, when the Teutonic pride is replaced with the
flight of the Priest or the dyings’ moans; the faces of the Teutonic leaders; and so many other fascinating scenes
in which the artistic virtuosity of Eisenstein’s camera that is able to embrace a whole battle or to tarry marvelously
on faces and objects is admirably supported and helped by Prokofieff’s music. To say more would be to reduce the
interest of a movie that all students should go to see. It is NOT esoterically intellectual or philosophical; but it
has the advantage of adding to a simple and powerful poetry the entertainment and the relaxation that any of the
James Bond movies would give to their enthusiastic audience of Davidson students. Before Alexander Nevsky will be shown a short
subject: Etoile De Mer, by Man Ray, based on a poem by Robert Desnos. This Parisian poet, born in 1900,
exerted a cardinal influence on the group of the “Surrealists.” He admirably succeeded in the expression of dreams into words,
and in the unexpected associations of words or images which could spring from the poet’s unconsciousness. He was also one
of the great poets of the Resistance, and paid his engagement with his life in 1945.
