PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Swimmers Sunk By Virginia, 56-39

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1965

The Davidson College swimmers fell 56-39 in the meet with Virginia Monday, despite an excellent performance.

"We're real happy with some of the boys, I think they are in good shape for this early in the season, but we still have a long way to go," commented Coach Tom Stevens. "Swimming is a tougher sport than most people think; you have to be in terrific physical condition."

Tom Irons, whose teammates think he has broken a Davidson record, won his 200 yd. freestyle event with a 2:24 time. The exact Davidson record is not known, however.

The Virginia swim team had an especially good day, breaking two of their own school records in the 400 yard relay and 100 freestyle. Jim Stokes, expected to be the Conference’s number one man in his specialty, took the 200 yard butterfly with no trouble Monday. The captain, Stokes said of the team effort, "This is the best team we've had since I’ve been here, we’ve got more spirit than ever. We are pointing toward the Conference meet in March, and we will be in better shape by then. Until then our biggest competitors look like ECC and VMI."

Co-captain John Helm was praised highly by Stevens for his performance in the freestyle and butterfly. Also cited were Richard Holt, who was said by Stevens to have great potential, if he dedicates himself to working harder, Gary Peklo, who had his best free-relay time in this week’s meet and Bris Rodgers, a sophomore standout.

As for The Citadel meet next week, the swimmers will have quite a job beating the Bulldogs, especially if Captain Jim Stokes is unable to be at the meet. He has an interview that day in New Orleans, but will probably fly back to Charleston in time for the meet.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)

Part Of Diving Action In Monday's Meet

RAY GARRISON EXECUTES A FLIP

BASS CLEANERS
Mrs. Ethel Washam—Manager

NOW! IS THE TIME FOR WINTER STORAGE.
One-Day Service On Request

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

maison michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
375-9723

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

CO-CAPTAIN JIM STOKES
SC’s Number One Butterfly

Grapplers Open With Win, Romp Hapless Furman, 35-5

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s wrestlers opened their season Wednesday by crushing weak Furman 35-5 on the losers’ mats. Furman’s Tom Iseley won by a fall over John Self in the 145 lb. class for the losers’ only victory.

The Davidson team won by fall in six weight classes. There was no match in the 160 lb. class, and Furman forfeited to John Lotheridge in the 137 lb. category.

Although pleased with the victory, Coach Charlie Parker was not encouraged. “Furman was not much of a test,” commented Parker. “This is only their second year of wrestling, and they were pretty weak. In fact, The Citadel beat them 45-0. On the whole, the match went just as I had expected.”

The results of the Furman match are as follows:

123 lbs. Joe Buffington (Davidson) by a fall in 5:47.
130 lbs. Martin Miller (Davidson) by a fall in 2:02.
137 lbs. John Lotheridge (Davidson) by forfeit.
145 lbs. Tom Iseley (Furman) by a fall in 3:07.
152 lbs. Julian Prosser (Davidson) by a fall in 4:03.
167 lbs. Terry O'Hair (Davidson) by a fall in 6:02.
177 lbs. Eric Nichols (Davidson) by a fall in 1:40.

The pre-Christmas schedule pits the matmen against VMI tomorrow and UNC Thursday. According to Parker, “Both of these teams are a whole lot stronger and more experienced than we are. Our team has much more balanced teams, too. We have some boys who haven't done much wrestling before, but VMI and UNC have experienced men in all weight classes.”

VMI finished their 1964-65 season third in the conference. This year VMI's team roster boasts nine returning lettermen, including Marshall Taylor, conference champion in the 177 lb. division. Tomorrow Taylor will face Davidson's team captain Eric Nichols.

Carolina enters the match Thursday with a 2-0 record so far for the season, chalking up wins over Pfeiffer and St. Andrews.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

“COCA-COLA” AND “COKE” ARE REGISTERED TRADE-MARKS WHICH IDENTIFY ONLY THE PRODUCT OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANYCOCA-COLA COMPANY, Singing goes better refreshed. And Coca-Cola — with that special zing but never too sweet — refreshes best. Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD

STEP OUT FRONT

Rocket Action Car! By DOUG CRISP Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Athletic Council of Davidson College met Saturday to decide on various issues that had been brought before them. The Council is made up of the Trustees, three or four members of the Wildcat Club, representatives from the student body, and various faculty members.

The Athletic Department announced several new additions to the facilities for athletics at Davidson. They were made possible through the $50,000 matching grants of the Richardson Foundation and Davidson College.

ADDITIONS

Completed are the following: (1) sandblasting and waterproof painting of the entire stadium, (2) the construction of a modern press box, (3) the addition of fiberglass seats for the entire stadium, and (4) the renovation of both the varsity and the freshmen dressing rooms. Also completed are (5) the relocation of the public address system for football, (6) a new practice football field, (7) a new baseball field, (8) a new intramural field, (9) construction of new balcony seats for basketball, and (10) improvement of floor seating.

Contractors are working under the East Stadium and the following are scheduled for completion this winter: (1) new toilets for men and women, (2) a dressing room to accommodate 50 people, (3) a dormitory to accommodate 36 people, (4) a dressing room for Davidson teams, and (5) six handball courts. The handball courts will not be complete four-wall courts. The completion of the new facilities under East Stadium will exceed the $100,000 made available by the Richardson Foundation and the college. The additional expense will be provided for by Davidson.

The council also discussed the needs of the Athletic Department and devised some proposals to try to meet these needs. Some of the ideas were as follows: (1) an assistant track coach to help Coach Whittle—It is almost impossible for him to work with the 50-60 students that participate in freshmen-varsity track; (2) making a classroom which could be used as a projection room and an office on the balcony level immediately behind the new bleachers; (3) securing additional secretarial help—at the present time there is one secretary employed on a 12-month basis and three secretaries on a nine-month basis. Beginning this summer, it was proposed to have one of the secretaries working only part of the year to be employed on a 12-month basis.

Also under consideration are (4) a small bus or limousine to transport teams for games away from Davidson—this proposal would be for the minor sports for the safety of the teams, instead of having the students take their own cars; (5) lighting for the football stadium and track—this proposal is for the physical well-being of the teams. For the first two football games in September, it has been proposed that they be played at night to reduce heatstrokes and exhaustion; (6) a hard-surfaced track; (7) a roofed area behind the East Stands. This would enable the football teams and other outdoor teams to practice during rainy weather. Another proposal is (8) an 18-hole golf course for intercollegiate, student, and faculty play, but due to lack of funds, this will not be taken up for several years. The student representatives, Sonny Graves and Paul Marion, proposed that there be a reduction in rates at the Mooresville golf course to compensate for the postponement of construction of the college course. The final need is (10) an assistant trainer with the responsibilities for the so-called minor sports.

The main suggestions made by Graves and Marion were that the gym facilities be enlarged or that the gym be kept open more often to accommodate the students, that students be able to sit at the Charlotte Coliseum at Davidson games on a first-come, first-serve basis—this proposal was put into effect at the game with Marquette last night—and that lights for the tennis courts be installed. Marion said, “By far, the most pressing need is more indoor facilities open to students.”

There’s a change in curriculum. Toronado’s in! Front wheel drive with 385-horse Rocket V-8 takes boredom out of the course! No more cramming—with flat floors, six passengers are a snap! Toronado styling takes honors over anything else on the road! In fact... sample the style and action of any of the Toronado-inspired Rocket Action Oldsmobiles. You'll want to major in Olds ownership!

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW!

TORONADO * NINETY-EIGHT * DELTA 88 * DYNAMIC 88 * STARFIRE * CUTLASS * F-85 * VISTA-CRUISER * STARLINER * 4-4-2

OLDSMOBILE

GO AHEAD... TAKE THE WHEEL... THE ACTION IS YOURS... SEE YOUR LOCAL AUTHORIZED OLDSMOBILE QUALITY DEALER TODAY!