PAGE FOUR

30-Day Chevy Dream Ends

The Chevrolet-sponsored “saga of the Super Sports” ends this evening for 15 members of the class of '63. Among the participants, opinion differed on the 30 days of free and attention-getting transportation afforded by General Motors. Art Ross and Harry Kernodle, the only roommate combination to capture two of the cars, both agreed that the black-and-red combination added to the distinctiveness of the vehicles. Noted Kernodle, “I don't think I saw another like it on the road.” Another participant, Gary Martin, was sold on the car’s appearance. “I have yet to tell a date it wasn’t mine,” said Martin. He quickly added, “The car has changed my personality radically, increased my confidence... made me into the kind of person I dislike.”

On a Spring Vacation trip to Florida (part of the 4000 miles put on the car), Martin got ptomaine poisoning from a “foot long” hot dog in Columbia, S.C., and spent a day and two nights in a Millen, Ga., hospital. “The doctor was very impressed with the car,” he noted. “I have reason to believe my conspicuous affluence may have increased my hospital bill.”

RECORD HOLDER

Jimmy Downey may well hold the record for distance traveled. In the mere 30 days he held the keys to coolness, Downey made trips to Canada (by way of New York), Washington, D.C., Florida, and South Carolina (frequently). His total bill—to be reimbursed by the company—was in excess of $150. “Just call me S. S.,” said Downey shortly after receiving the car. Kernodle and Bill Jacobs drove to Miami, left their cars, and made the jump over to Nassau. The former pointed out that this four days inactivity cut into his total miles traveled. “But,” he noted, “when someone else is paying your fuel bill, it makes getting out almost a necessity.”

Making effective use of his car, Dick Bates included in his itinerary a trip to his prospective graduate school in Nashville. Will Jackson went to New Orleans and came back by way of the Florida beaches. According to Union Director Shaw Smith, Davidson was selected to participate in the Chevrolet program at least partially through the efforts of Dr. Warner Hall, minister of Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

Conservative Club Chooses Officers

Louis Lesesne, Frank Shepard, and Don Carroll were elected to the top offices of the Davidson College Conservative Club on Tuesday night. Lesesne was elected president and replaces Dan Campbell who has headed the organization for the past year. Rising sophomore Frank Shepard succeeds Billy Clark as vice-president. The new secretary-treasurer is rising junior Don Carroll, replacing Lesesne. The club hopes to sponsor a chapel speaker before the end of the semester. This will end their activities for the year. Rising junior Lesesne promises a more ambitious program for the coming year as the club has been given outside financial support.

Nine fraternities have elected new officers for the coming year. Major officers of each fraternity include:

Alpha Tau Omega—President, Walt Drake; Vice-President, Thom Blair; Treasurer, Pat Hubbard; Secretary, Dan Boone; IFC Representative, Al Carson.

Beta Theta Pi—President, David Meschan; Vice-President, Joe Davis; Treasurer, Sammy Gibbs; Secretary, Eddie Polk; IFC Representative, John Jeter.

Kappa Alpha—President, Ernie Larkin; Vice-President, Tim Croft; Treasurer, John Hash; Secretary, Grey Winfield; IFC Representative, Johnny Reynolds.

Pi Kappa Alpha—President, Conrad Martin; Vice-President, Jim Martin; Treasurer, Jack Walker; Secretary, Chuck Byrd; IFC Representative, Tom Brown.

Pi Kappa Phi—President, Frank Gibbes; Treasurer, Allan Cooper; Secretary, Paul Curlee; IFC Representative, David Westfall.

Phi Gamma Delta—President, Charlie Lloyd; Treasurer, Bill Staples; Secretary, Jimmy Poole; IFC Representative, Jim Terry.

Sigma Nu—President, John Skinner; Vice-President, Rostan; Treasurer, Dan Crocker; Secretary, Dave Ellett; IFC Representative, Ed McFarland.

Phi Delta Theta—President, Bob Bryan; Vice-President, Paul Ambrose; Treasurer, Charlie Edwards; Secretary, Jim McNab; IFC Representative, Cal Calhoun.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—President, David James; Vice-President, Dick Helm; Treasurer, Wayne Cherry; Secretary, Richard Maybin; IFC Representative, Stan Brown.

(Student Photo by Johnson)

C. R. POLLEY
Cider Anyone?

By JIM STOKES

Student Action Draws Honor Court Warning

Honor Court Chairman

Since spring vacation the Honor Court has become concerned over several alleged or actual actions of some Davidson students. Stones have been thrown at trains passing by Hattie’s on several occasions. Davidson students are suspected of these offenses and a railroad detective has been called in to investigate. If any students have been involved, it would be very wise to desist from such actions.

A second cause of concern has been the increase of noise in and around the dormitories. In particular, the exploding of fireworks and the playing of hi-fi’s, stereos, and radios too loudly has become widespread. Both of these are not only violations of the Student Body Regulations but are also in violation of any rules of considerate and thoughtful conduct. I hope this reminder will make any further recommendations or warnings about such practice unnecessary.

RAIN OR SHINE FOR 30 YEARS

Polley Makes, Peddles

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Of the great number of Davidson students who pass by C. R. Polley at least twice a week, very few, if any, know who he is. He’s a sight as familiar as Hattie’s—but who is he? C. R. Polley is none other than Route 21's very own “cherry cider man.” Rain or shine for the past 30 years Polley has sold his cider from Albany, N.Y. to Charlotte. He originally comes from Pennsylvania which he left because the “winters up there are hell.”

While working in Albany Polley once appeared in an article in Colliers on the New York countryside. “I was in there with my cider with a big color picture.” After Polley moved to Charlotte, he worked on South 21 for a couple of years. Here he again made the big time with an article in the Observer (“It gave me a hell of a write-up.”) featuring him and his cider. Finally, he moved to his present location, even though 21 south was a busier location, to get away from the rapidly expanding suburbs.

Polley buys his cherries in the Winter and presses them in an apple press in his home. He buys the bottles from Coca-Cola and puts up enough cider to last for the rest of the year, then he “hits the road” once again. He is in the same spot seven days a week, nearly all year.“I been out here on some cold days and some damn hot ones too.” According to Polley, it's not an easy living—sitting and selling. He's on location early in the morning and quits around 6 p.m., all to sell 30-40 gallons a week. At $1.35 a gallon, that doesn’t put him in the 90 per cent tax bracket, but at least he's his own boss. Right now, though, he's worried about Route 77 replacing 21 and driving him somewhere else even less traveled. When asked if a lot of Davidson boys stopped in to buy, he replied that they did all the time; in fact, “Four gals from Davidson stopped by here this morning—raisin’ hell.” Next to Davidson girls, tourists are his biggest customers. As long as they all want cider, there’s not much difference among them, but “A Northerner will spend quicker than a Southerner—I’ll tell you that. They'll ask more questions and kick more about the price, but they’ll usually take it.” One reason is that Northerners are away from home and are ready to spend money on things they usually wouldn't. Another reason, he claims, is the water down South. “They (the tourists) get down South and they get that damn mineral water—tastes like rotten eggs.” Even Southerners are kind of peculiar, asserted Polley with a chuckle, especially, “those ones from South Carolina. You know, they ask ‘What's it made of?’ What the hell they think it's made of? They even ask what it’s good for.” There was incredulity in his eyes as he thought on how stupid people are, “Hell, I tell ‘em it's good to wash your feet in if you want to. The cider’s best when it’s chilled, but if you put sugar in it and leave it for a couple of weeks you'll get a good batch of cherry wine.” He added that it's also good for using as a mixer with gin or vodka. Suddenly acquiring a passion for cherry cider, we decided to purchase a gallon. As he handed it to us he advised, “If you put some in that bottle there, you'll never finish that story you're gonna write.” Thanking him for the advice, we told him goodbye, bottle in hand and full of visions of Spring Frolics and cider. He told us to come again soon and climbed back into his car to wait for another customer to come along.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday

Hub Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. Phone ED 2-2414

I still managed to get dent Project Bill; 3600 miles. Kernodle was one of several participants who already had a lotte. A member of his congregation associated with Chevrolet made the decision. Smith and Dean Richard C. Burts, with aid of counsel, made the decision on who was to receive the cars. Said Smith, “Obviously we tried to be as representative as possible: activities and grades were part of the criteria...” Reportedly the company carried no collision insurance, having no great need—with mass production stockpiles—to replace an individual car. Parental approval was required for participants and for one reason or another, two of the originally selected students declined the opportunity.

FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1965

(Staff Photo by Johnson) DICK BATES WITH HIS SUPER SPORT

End Of A “Saga” Support Is Pledged To PRAM In YMCA Easter Fund Drive

The Davidson College Students voted it the most worthy of four possible recipient projects considered in Chapel Tuesday. FRED EHLERS Send “Ideas, Not Money” Being an Army officer is a challenge. Officers must be leaders... able to take responsibility... get important jobs done. It isn’t easy to win a commission as an Army officer. But if you are taking the Basic Course in ROTC you're well on your way—provided you can measure up to the high standards required for admission to the Advanced Course. As a student in one of the 247 colleges and universities offering senior ROTC training, you are in a privileged group. There’s no better way for any college man to get the training and skills needed to be an Army officer than through the on-campus program created specifically for that purpose—ROTC. Here you learn to be a leader... to develop the qualities that add a vital plus to your academic training... qualities that will pay off for the rest of your life in whatever career you choose to follow. There are other advantages too. Pay, at the rate of $40 per month during the Advanced Course plus allowances for summer training and travel. Fellowship and social activity. The chance to work with modern Army equipment, and perhaps to qualify for Army flight training if it is offered at your school. And then gold bars and a commission as an Army officer. Why not talk to your Professor of Military Science now. Let him know you're interested in signing up for the Advanced Course. Then if you are offered an opportunity to join, don’t pass it up. It’s the program that’s best for you... and best for your country. If you’re good enough to be an Army officer, don’t settle for less. ARMY ROTC