PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

ROTC Officer Transfers Here From S. Vietnam

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

It has been reported in Sports Illustrated that pregnant beagles can roam over this “lazy southern campus and cross streets at will without fear of molestation.” Such an atmosphere must be quite ironic to Capt. Robert Crittenden, newly assigned to the Davidson ROTC Department. Crittenden, who officially resumed his new duties as of Jan. 1, came here from a year's assignment in Vietnam. At that post, he spent six months at division operations level. Davidson’s new addition had the misfortune to step on a mine while in Vietnam, necessitating some extended medical attention. “It was a small one,” he said. “It didn't tear my foot off.” Immediately reflecting on this remark, the young Captain smiled at his own nonchalance.

In his tour of duty, Crittenden accumulated some reflections on the conduct of the war. He found the morale of the soldier in the field was high, even if proper leadership and motivation were frequently lacking. Noted Crittenden, “The Vietnamese soldier is used to turmoil and constant change; he operates on a day-to-day basis.” He pointed out that the South Vietnamese army is not a highly-trained, professional organization, as one might expect from the relatively high morale. Of the Viet Cong, he said, “This is a well-indoctrinated, disciplined body the prime objective of which is the spreading of propaganda. Their weapons and equipment have been poor but they're getting better all the time.” He went on to note a familiar military generalization: one-third of the people are loyal to the government; one-third, to the Viet Cong; and one-third just want to be left alone.

Crittenden's division was featured last spring in Life magazine’s bloody pictorial on the Southeast Asian conflict. He was familiar with several of the officers featured in that story and recalled the activities of the press in the area. The sector featured in Life is the favorite area for news media and an easily accessible region just south of Saigon. The army, extremely sensitive to the importance of public opinion in the Vietnam campaign, supplies each newsman with his own helicopter and all the cooperation one could desire. Crittenden recalled with a smile one newsman who had interviewed him. He later received the paper and discovered, as many unfortunately have, that he was credited with some observations he hadn't made.

Davidson’s newest faculty member was graduated from VPI in 1957 with a degree in architectural engineering. Despite his lack of local ties, he still prefers to call Richmond his home. He and his wife now live in Cornelius. Crittenden will be an instructor in all military science classes (on a subject rather than a class level) and his tour will probably be for three years. He appeared happy with his new post; “I requested an assignment in this area and I'm very pleased with the school. The atmosphere couldn't be friendlier.”

Seminary President To Speak Here

Dr. James I. McCord, president of Princeton Theological Seminary and former Dean and Professor of Systematic Theology at Austin Theological Seminary, will speak in Vespers Sunday night.

JAMES I. McCORD
Princeton Head

A native of Russia, Tex., Dr. McCord received his AB from Austin College in 1938. He continued his study at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and was awarded his BD there. He studied also at the graduate school of the University of Texas while serving as instructor in the Department of philosophy. Dr. McCord has attended Harvard University and New College, University of Edinburgh. He holds an MA from the University of Texas; BD from Austin College and Davidson College; ThD, University of Geneva; DD, Knox College and Princeton University. Besides his present administrative post, Dr. McCord served as pastor of the University Presbyterian Church in Austin. He continues to lecture in schools and theological seminaries throughout Europe, Canada and the US. He has also published numerous articles and reviews.

Council May Adopt Speaker Ban Stand

ROTC CHIEF HONORS NEW CAPTAIN
COL. F. B. OUTLAW (LEFT) GREETS CRITTENDEN

STUDENTS AND FACULTY COMMENT
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

President Will Jackson urged that the Student Council adopt a resolution to support the faculty’s stand on the North Carolina Speaker Ban at the weekly meeting Monday night. His proposal took only the form of a suggestion, however, since all action at this meeting was unofficial due to lack of a quorum. Eleven representatives constitute a quorum, and only ten of the sixteen members were able to attend the meeting. Jackson explained that the absentees had responsibilities at the Pledge Banquet held that same evening.

Jackson also announced the upcoming meeting of the State Student Legislature. He asked that anyone desiring to attend this meeting in Raleigh February 18-20, see him. The Student Council, he added, might assume part of the expenses of the trip.

“The first report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee is due March 1,” continued Jackson, noting that this was merely an interim report and

Effectiveness Of Humanities Evaluated

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Now in the third year since its inception, Davidson’s Humanities program has become to approximately 100 freshmen and 100 sophomores a familiar part of their academic lives. THE DAVIDSONIAN last week interviewed students and professors involved in the course to discover their views of the program’s effectiveness.

“We feel that the program has developed and is succeeding perhaps to a greater degree than we had a right to hope,” said Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, professor of Bible and chairman of the first-year teaching team of six professors. “It has been our hope that students who take these courses will have a sense of where they come from—to understand their spiritual and philosophical mentors—in the hope that we all will be able to cope with our modern situation in a meaningful way.

“We are not unique in this among courses at Davidson,” Rhodes pointed out. The main difference for the Humanities student as compared to the student who did not elect to enroll in the course is the integration of materials. Receiving from the inter-disciplinary course credit toward the fulfillment of history, Bible, and English requirements, the student reads in chronological order materials covering the entire span of Western civilization.

Rhodes said that the voluntary nature of enrollment in the Humanities course “creates the conditions in which you can have a lively discussion” between Humanities students and students who get a different viewpoint by studying each discipline separately.

MORE EASE

Dr. George Labban, professor of Greek and also a member of the first-year team, said, “The students last year and certainly this year reflect more ease in the course. It's not new—both students and instructors know what to expect.”

He said that one advantageof the course might be an increase in the quality and quantity of material that could be offered in other courses. “I would like to see this as a motivation for professors’ ‘beefing-up’ of a number of their courses because of the higher number of Humanities students in them.” Dr. Richard C. Cole, professor of English and also a member of the first-year team, said that a full evaluation of the course would, in his opinion, be most possible next year. “I'm hoping we can make out an elaborate questionnaire to give out to the seniors next year to evaluate the Humanities course in its value in the last two years here.”

CAFETERIA-STYLE

Dr. Philip B. Secor, professor of political science and a member of the second-year Humanities team, said, “Mostly I'm very enthusiastic about it. I think it does get around the problems of ‘cafeteria-style’ education’ in its integrated approach.” He noticed differences in other classes between Humanities and non-Humanities students. “Students who've had Humanities are more eager to participate. There’s a value to introducing freshmen and sophomores to the seminar program.” He also assessed the personal value the course had for him. “There's no doubt that it has a special kind of value for those who teach it. It makes me a better teacher in my own discipline to see how my subject relates to others.”

“Essentially, the program hasn’t changed much since we made it,” Rhodes said, explaining that the organization of the course had been worked out during the two summers and the school year prior to the course’s beginning.

CHANGES

The main changes in the first-year program were two. The team decided to omit the library paper required during the first semester, continuing with required short essays. Then, during the second semester, the student was required to write a library paper in addition to the themes. “We think the results have verified our procedures,” Rhodes said.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said the attitude toward the program had become more positive. “I sense a change in comment from the time we started this. I felt there was a negativism in the very beginning because of the standards and very likely because it is a more demanding academic program. People got kind of scared of it and whatever happened people used as a justification of their fears.”

Burts said the closest thing to a liability that students might experience if enrolled in Humanities was the pressure the reduced academic load for freshmen placed on them not to fail the course. Once failed, the freshman would under normal circumstances be certain of having to attend summer school in order to enroll as a sophomore in the succeeding fall. Referring to this reduced load for freshmen, Rhodes said that he had hoped the reduced load would encourage freshmen to work harder and more intensively. By and large, it hasn’t. “The students are more relaxed and this may be good. On the other hand, we've been disappointed that this hasn’t shown up in the grades as yet.”

“BEST WE’VE GOT”

Burts said that he strongly supported the course, despite the narrow safety margin for flunkers. “Many men shy away from it, but I think they're shying away from the best instructional program we've got.”

Students' reaction was widely varied. One junior said, “I feel real strongly that it was good—I think it’s been about half my education already. It saves the students all the synthesizing he'd have to do some other time out of class—plus the forced reading in fields outside my regular interests.” Another junior expressed regret that he had missed much of the course's significance. “I think the discipline it gives you and the intellectual inspiration it gives you are valuable, but you miss a lot of it. You’re going so fast over such significant material at a time in your education when you are just beginning to be aware of human problems, that I think a lot of the specific material is lost on you. You get historical periods, et cetera, but I feel it's a shame that I'm able to look back and see how much more I could have gotten out of it. I had to acquire the skills first.”

A freshman just out of his first semester of Humanities called it “my favorite course.” He appreciated getting the difficult material right away. He was a physics major taking Humanities because “it sounded better than Bible and everything taken separately.”

PROBLEM

A sophomore discussed a problem that had bothered him during the course: “the professors, having to teach subjects outside their chosen fields would naturally come out with different students having different viewpoints in the same course.” He knew of one professor who had stressed Alexander Pope's idea of God in the “Essay on Man,” while another had said the idea was concerned only with the idea of man, God not entering into it except in a remote sense.

Tommy Heffner told the Council that students from Amherst College would be visiting Davidson late in March on a kind of “cultural exchange program.” They will attend classes and mingle with the student body to gain some insight into student life at Davidson. Heffner said that about twenty-five Davidson students had expressed a desire to travel to Amherst during spring break for similar activities there.

The evening's discussion progressed with a critical discussion of the inventory of the College bookstore. Bill Council expressed a desire to see the variety of the publications available increased to please a greater number of students. Tom Frist introduced the final item of discussion when he asked if the Council could aid in finding information on summer jobs in Europe. He mentioned that he had heard of students earning travel money by helping with archaeological expeditions. Chuck Matthews said that Ed Armfield had been assigned the job of chairman of student travel, and that those interested in such a program should see him.

YRC Will Attend State Convention

Five delegates from the Davidson Young Republicans Club will attend the annual state convention this weekend in Charlotte. Meeting today and tomorrow at the Heart of Charlotte Hotel, the North Carolina Federation of Young Republicans is the state-wide organization of YRC with delegations from major colleges of North Carolina. Chairman Walter Edgar, Sam Bradley, Joe Beard, Don McKinnon, and Jimmy Downey will attend representing Davidson in the two-day meeting called to elect state-wide officers and set future policy.

The Davidson Gentlemen: Advance and be RECOGNIZED in Natural Shoulder clothing and accessories from our fine selections . . . TASTE and SENSIBLE Prices.

PALM BEACH and BOTANY 500 Suits and Sportcoats
BOSTONIAN Shoes and Moccasins
SERO and VAN HEUSEN Shirts and Sportshirts
LONDON FOG Jackets and Weather Coats
HAGGAR and FARAH Dress and School Pants
GOLD CUP and ESQUIRE Socks and Over the Calf Socks
PARIS and DANBURY Belts
LORD JEFF Sweaters
RIVETZ fine Traditional Ties, Repps, Challis, and Madders

John Mock & Son
Our 53rd Continuous Year
Beginning Monday, we will be open ‘til 9 P.M.

That evening Wright spoke at the pledge banquet on another relevant topic—brotherhood. If again he seemed to speak down to his audience, he furthermore oat the morning's intellectual div- municate moral values to the present generation. How do we correct the matter? First, we should recognize that honesty is an integral part of the society we all desire. Then, by personal moral re-evaluation we can re-institute that which has been lost. Growing a bit anthropomorphic in the eyes of most, Wright concluded that a generous supply of honesty pills (invisible of course) were available at the back doors of the auditorium for all who desire them. The suggestion met with less than overwhelming approval.

It is estimated that at least 50 students were given employment last summer on the newspapers of the state. More will be needed this summer. If you are interested in a career in journalism and want to work on a newspaper this summer, you are invited to apply for a job through the Personnel Committee of the North Carolina Press Association. For an application, write immediately to Mr. J. B. Fitz, News-Herald, Morganton, N. C. Personnel Committee, N. C. Press Association.

LAKESIDE INN (Under New Management)
“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.”
Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater
Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m. on...
For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711