The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Hesitation

Although we see the recommendations adopted by the faculty this week as a move in the right direction, it seems
that professors somehow landed on the wrong foot before they stepped out of their three-hour meeting Tuesday. We indicated in
this column one week ago that any solution to the fraternity problem was going to require “mortar with real substance.”
This is not what the faculty came out with. Instead, we now have a weak thing full of “lumps” which
would only complicate any lasting solution to a full social life for each Davidson student.

Measures adopted by the faculty this week do indicate a trend toward satisfying this goal; nevertheless, it appears that the
real and deeper problems of rejection and anti-intellectualism which are so much a part of the Davidson Greek system were
never touched. This is where the faculty shirked their responsibilities on Tuesday. It is an old saw, but “they couldn’t
see the forest for the trees.”

The Interfraternity Council last night passed a resolution endorsing the faculty (McGavock) committee report. Seeing a change in their exclusive
system as inevitable, the fraternity representatives are at the most grabbing for the mildest-sounding proposal for them. Unless a terrific
metamorphosis comes about over the summer months, we cannot picture the Davidson fraternity man remaining on campus for five weekends
next fall merely to hold rush parties for freshmen. Yet the IFC supports such an idea in the McGavock report.

Furthermore, many somehow claim that the faculty recommendations do not provide for an adequate freshman social life. Yet the McGavock
committee report does not make provisions for the first two months of the freshman’s stay—definitely the most critical period for
adjustment to all-around campus life. The added inconvenience of conflicts with first semester holidays and examination periods make the faculty
committee’s rush procedure wholly impractical.

The $100,000 risk of building two new structures on Patterson Court for non-selective eating clubs is just that: a mighty
expensive stab in the dark. A non-competitive system cannot be maintained alongside the stigmas of rejection and exclusiveness plus the
prevailing attitude of anti-intellectualism on Patterson Court. The battle is lost there before we begin. “Separate but equal facilities” are
bygones in the 1960s. Why must Davidson experiment with such an idea?

Tuesday's faculty action has eliminated the preposterous rush procedure; but the faculty committee’s gamble on the fledgling non-selective houses among
the 12 giants, which was approved by the entire faculty Tuesday, is still a possibility depending on trustee reaction later
this month.

The moratorium on pledging appears to be the most practical solution to the problem at hand. The provisions for an
adequate social life for the freshmen’s first few months on campus must be made under the McGavock proposal as well
as under the faculty's decision. There is no difference in this respect between the McGavock report and the eventual action
taken by the faculty. Nevertheless, the complicated mid-semester rush would surely antagonize the freshman’s social adjustment at the time most
freshmen are struggling with academic problems that usually accompany their first official grade reports. Also, the provision for allowing freshmen
to have cars on the campus should greatly relieve many of the disadvantages that some now have.

We urge the establishment of the Social Life Evaluating Committee by the President as soon as possible to make other
necessary provisions for an adequate social life for freshmen, as well as to begin the committee’s other roles as outlined
in the faculty action. Overall, we cannot help but be pleased that some action was taken by the faculty. The
recommendations are long overdue. We only hope that Tuesday’s action indicates a much greater concern on the Hill in the
future for a complete and equitable social life for every student at Davidson.

Ah, Spring!

Davidson’s notoriously apathetic student body removed their shackles for approximately one hour Wednesday night in a misguided, if not ill-conceived,
demonstration of “student concern over the faculty action Tuesday.” With the sap rising and leaves budding around them, the pathos-filled
demonstrators showed us that spring is finally here — but hardly anything else.

It is rather ironic that nearly every Davidson student deplores the recent reappearance of Ku Klux Klan activity in the
South. Yet under the light of burning broomsticks, flaming crosses and the cowardly cover of darkness, several hundred of these
same Davidson “gentlemen” circled the campus “just to raise a little hell.” One might have thought that the state grand
dragon himself had come over from Granite Quarry to set up the foolhardy activities.

THE DAVIDSONIAN supports demonstrations of genuine student concern, even if we do not necessarily agree with the ultimate aims. But
Wednesday night’s deplorable situation was more concerned with “blowing off steam” than with presenting any constructive ideas. Hardly any of
the student participants obviously had even read the McGavock committee report; for out of the same mouths Wednesday night came
support of the McGavock proposals and disapproval—in varying degrees—of the social club idea and the “fewer than 40” rule.

As President D. Grier Martin told the gathering on the steps of Chambers Wednesday night, “Davidson College will not be
forced in this manner to take any action.” We admonish future demonstrators to show just cause for their actions.

A New Leader

Thursday’s chapel episode was a comedy of sorts. But beneath the facade of heckling students, who seem to have had
their share of thrills in the past few weeks, there lies a real question of ethics on the part of
one faculty member.

We do not dispute this one particular professor’s right to advise students on a certain course of action. But to
appeal to the entire student body for organized opposition against a faculty decision is both unwise and professionally unethical. It
was a shrewd and polished appeal before an emotion-filled audience, who soon gathered that the faculty’s decision did not quite
suit this professor's cup of tea. Several faculty members expressed genuine disapproval of the speaker’s remarks to the students. Included
were some professors who reportedly voted with this speaker in the faculty meeting.

The professor is overstepping his authoritative bounds when he calls for student action to reverse the decision of his own
colleagues. Such an appeal is for a new student bureaucracy, for which we do not feel Davidson is quite ready.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Coffey Condemns Report As Piecemeal Solution

Dear Editor:

In a solemn and tense session on this past Tuesday the faculty met to decide the fate of the fraternities.
I fully realize that the question under consideration was not an easy one to solve. There was considerable student and
alumni pressure to consider, and, moreover, the faculty itself was severely divided on the question. Conceding the complexity of the
problem which the faculty faced, I still believe that the compromise solution enacted was no solution at all.

A piecemeal selection of the less objectionable proposals contained in the majority report of the Fraternity Study Committee, the minority
report of that same group, and the report of the faculty Social Life Committee did not, and indeed could not
have resulted in a unified and compatible social program. The basic social problem at Davidson will still exist—some students will
be excluded from the social opportunities the fraternity system offers—and, moreover, the twelve existing fraternal organizations will be severely crippled
and may die of slow financial strangulation.

The faculty has in effect forced every entering student to be an Independent for a year. The fraternities will find
themselves hurting for revenue and unless they wise up and take in some students they would ordinarily have rejected, which
somehow does not seem likely, they will at least find it necessary to curtail their current social programs and at
worst be forced to disband entirely.

The Independent under the new system will find his situation relatively unchanged. Granted, there will be more independents, 250 more
to be exact, but all this can give the upperclass independent is a sort of sadistic vengeance. The two new
“social clubs” which will be established as consolation prizes will probably never work. At best they can be only two
small Unions or two Lingle Manors with boarding privileges. Neither the Union nor Lingle Manor has been able to satisfy
the social needs of the Independents and there is no reason to believe that these new “social clubs” will do
much better.

The faculty also banned discriminatory clauses from the bylaws of those fraternities which still have them. Even the faculty must
realize that this action will not amount to a hill of beans as long as unanimous or even majority approval
is necessary before a bid is extended. I dare say that for years to come there will be at least
one member of each fraternity who will “ball" anyone who is not a white, Anglo-Saxon Protestant. Although some Jewish students
have been accepted by the fraternities, I don’t believe a Negro student will have much of a chance.

The basic weakness of the faculty decision was that it failed to consider the fraternity question in its larger context
as a social problem. A complete solution will never be achieved until every student who desires to participate in the
off-campus social life is permitted to do so either by a system of social affiliation with the existing fraternities or
through the replacement of the fraternities by eating clubs with open memberships. The only other solution would be to bring
the social life back on campus where it would be accessible to everyone. But to be satisfactory to a majority
of the students, this would necessitate the abandonment of certain of Davidson College’s sacrosanct mores, for example, the drinking rule.

In summation, I believe that the faculty should allow the present system to continue, even with its obvious defects, if
they are unwilling to examine the entire social problem.and make the necessary changes to alleviate it. A piece-meal compromise is
not enough. The faculty decision, if allowed to stand, may prove disastrous.

DAVID COFFEY
Davidson College

Burks

Dear Editor:

Davidson College is far from a perfect place. There are probably few people who would be unwilling to criticize it
in any way. However, it seems to me that the DAVIDSONIAN’s columnist has carried his criticism somewhat beyond the limits
of sound reason in the “Asterisk” column of the issue of April 9.

Mr. Carson has made some valid points. Admittedly, the college's conservative, Presbyterian background is a barrier to complete intellectual freedom
on the campus. Compulsory chapel and vespers have not made Christianity any more meaningful to me, and the faculty oath
seems somewhat similar to the gag law, which a majority of the Davidson faculty opposes.

However, progress is being made, as attested to by the achievements of the past three years—a liberalized cut system for
classes, the new vespers attendance rule, and the liberalization of the drinking rule. And yet, Mr. Carson claims that “Davidson
continues to strengthen its ties with the past.”

Our columnist next proceeds to castigate the admissions committee and the student body. According to Mr. Carson, the admissions committee
is concerned with nothing besides the academic quality of its applicants. The success of the tennis, soccer, and track teams
(all composed of non-scholarship athletes), and the quality of the Wind Ensemble, the debate team, and the Male Chorus raise
considerable doubt as to the accuracy of Mr. Carson's statement.

He is concerned that there is no Bohemian element on the campus and places blame on the admissions committee. I
do not have any statistics (and I suspect that Mr. Carson was in the same situation), but it would be
interesting to know how many “Bohemians” are interested enough in hard work to apply to Davidson.

The curriculum is the next area to feel the sting of Mr. Carson's pen. Lamenting the absence of certain courses,
he then criticizes the small size of several departments in the college. Seemingly, then, it would do no good for
the college to institute courses in Chinese, for example, without hiring several professors to teach them.

Perhaps Mr. Carson wishes for Davidson to become a university (another branch of UNC, perhaps?). We would have to swap
the faculty oath for the gag law, but maybe we could discard Davidson's reputation and possibly even attract some Bohemians!

Mr. Carson seems to have lost sight of the fact that Davidson is a small, liberal arts college. Its faculty
is probably unsurpassed by any (other) college in the South. The physical plant is continually being improved. New courses are
introduced almost every year. These facts, together with the record of Davidson men after graduation, indicate to me that a
Davidson education is something more than “unabashed deception of the educational community and self-deception.”

It appears to me that those who are so ready to heap severe criticism on the college would do well
to investigate the bases of their criticisms more thoroughly.

JOHN M. BURKS
Davidson College.

Wooten

Dear Editor:

Every Davidson student who is physically capable is required to enter the ROTC program for two years. There must be
some reason for this. Surely the administration does not consider ROTC an integral part of a liberal education. Since Davidson
is a liberal arts college, the administration is justified in requiring all students to take English, Bible, etc.; indeed, these
subjects make up a liberal education. But ROTC—never!

Perhaps the college feels that all students must enter the program for two years in order to determine whether they
want to go into the advanced course. Surely some type of orientation program for the incoming freshmen would serve the
same purpose without subjecting those students who do not wish to enter the advanced program to two years of ROTC.

Perhaps the college feels that there is some intrinsic worth in taking two years of the program. Indeed, the student
who participates in the program for only two years gets no commission when, and if, he enters the army; there
are no tangible benefits to the two-year program. Certainly such assorted topics as reading military maps, tactics, organization of the
army, etc., are of no practical value to any student who is not planning to enter the advanced program. ROTC
is not that interesting; it is certainly not intellectually stimulating. I can see no value, from an educational point of
view, in requiring all students to enter the program for two years.

I feel that it is about time for Davidson to re-evaluate its policy concerning the ROTC department, or to explain
to those of us who see no value in a two-year program the reason it has for requiring us to
take it.

CECIL W. WOOTEN, III
Davidson College.

atO' Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“There is no justification with which Davidson College can salve its conscience. The stagnant waters of this institution are growing
mossy and rockbound, soon to be impenetrable”—A Recent Critic’s Flowery Finale.

THE LACK OF INTELLECTUAL EXCITEMENT, stimulation or whatever one terms it, at Davidson College, is finally traceable to one source—the
individual Davidson student. I'm not at all convinced that the endless student comment about trustees and admissions policies and faculty
oaths even comes close to the essence of the educational process—the response of the individual student.

What is Davidson College after all? Strip it of facilities, administrative staff, trustees and tradition and still the items that
make it a college remain: individual students (not a sum of class and attendance figures). And what else is finally
important here except the developing intellectual response of the individual student?

Gentlemen, the alpha and omega of any educational institution should be to provide a place where the individual can educate
himself. Note the mood of that last comment. Perhaps part of the confusion comes in thinking of college as a
place where one “receives an education” or “gets educated.” No first-class mind ever “got” an education—he developed his mind himself.
Education is primarily an individual endeavor, a process in which the student is both initiator and terminator. The creative, first-class
mind that is the leading subject of the educational process is not “educated” at a place or by a course
or a series of courses.

And it is time to face some unfortunate details: only a very few are ever going to develop a first-class
mind—and not necessarily because of a lack of mental equipment. Even given the best facilities and faculty possible, only a
handful out of any thousand ever admitted to Davidson will go beyond what is “advanced spoon-feeding.”

The problem at Davidson is first a lack of individual desire and self-discipline, then one of facilities and other matters.
So what is Davidson or any educational institution to do? It must cater to the majority of unweaned minds that
are there, prodding them and trying to awaken the dormant desire to achieve in some small way in the second-class
minds—because the creative handful of first-class minds will take care of themselves.

Yes, the handful will take care of themselves. A man who has the will to create and to learn tends
to create and to learn, despite the barriers in his path. This sort of man realizes many of his own
intellectual gaps and seeks to fill them, on his own volition, on his own time. And the first-class mind is
rarely classifiable in terms of “good guy” or “flit” or “jock” or “spastic.”

The tragedy is that the second-class minds are rarely able to discern their inadequacies or do anything to redevelop their
unused minds. Merely saying that the purpose of education is “to learn to think” is not enough—thought requires material about
which to think.

If material in the course is poor, the superior student will automatically go beyond the class material, instead of merely
bewailing poor courses. If his library is inadequate, the superior student will go other places to get the materials he
needs, instead of only complaining about the poor library and the administration. And if he finds that prevailing socio-economic levels
stifle his educational development, he will raise the relevant questions involved, instead of merely blaming the admissions committee.

There is nothing new in this—these have been characteristics of first-class minds all through the centuries.

Facilities, like administrative staffs and boards of trustees and lavatories, are important because they contribute to the ease or difficulty
in the educational process. But the intellectual growth must go on inside the individual; it cannot be injected. Facilities are
legitimate topics of discussion, but they cannot be cover-ups.

I think the main problem at Davidson, at Amherst, at everywhere I've visited is that the vast majority of students
lack the desire to create or the discipline to achieve their goals. If the student acts, then everything else from
sheer momentum will have to give way. But the college will probably always have to keep on spoon-feeding the vast
majority of students.

“Salve its conscience?” I’m not sure how much “Davidson College” needs the balm at all, but there are certainly many
students who “salve their own consciences” by ignoring the central problem of desire and self-discipline in themselves.

WRITING A COLUMN gives no assurance of omniscience on anyone's part, especially me, though I tend to give that impression.
I'll use words like “always” and “never,” words giving an air of certainty I neither believe nor feel, to develop
a line of thought. There are certain unwritten rules about “columnizing”—I'll probably disregard many of them, especially the one about
formality. The name of this column gives away some of my purpose—take it any way you wish, I don’t exclude
myself from my castigations, and I invite disagreement, though I probably won’t love it. At worst we can share mutual
ignorance.

Waldon Supports Greeks

Dear Editor:

Having discussed the matter about which I write with a few other students, I find, to my amazement, that in
some of their views it is not a valid analogy at all. Nevertheless, it seems to me to bear a
rather accurate similarity, and it is in this manner that I should like to offer it.

It appears to me that there is really very little difference between the right, or lack of right, for the
legislature of North Carolina to ban certain speakers from their college campuses, or for the Trustees of Davidson College to
prohibit men from teaching here on the basis of their views on what they might say, and the right of
the Faculty of Davidson College to restrict fraternities to a point which will probably mean their forced dissolution.

It has been my understanding that the faculty has been fighting for academic freedom, which in the case of the
gag law is simply freedom of speech and in the case of the oath is both freedom of speech and
freedom of religion. Similarly, I believe that the question of fraternities involves, in a large measure, the right of the
student body “peaceably to assemble.” I truthfully cannot see how the faculty can oppose the first restrictions and then advocate
the other.

Mark Waldon
Davidson College
