FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A TOUGH BREAK

Victory was sweet in Tuesday night’s 45-point win over Wofford as the ’Cats proved that they hadn't lost their touch,
as many had suspected after disappointing showings against conference cellar-dwellers Furman and Richmond. But the usually sweet wine of victory
was not without its bitterness, as top sub Paul Briggs’ broken foot bone was a hard blow to the Wildcats’
already less-than-overwhelmingly powerful reserve corps. The loss leaves nobody on the bench taller than 6-3, thus foul trouble with the
big men could really spell disaster for the ’Cats.

“It’s a tough break,” says Lefty, “but Ronnie Stone has been playing some good ball for us as a reserve
and I think he'll do as well for us as Briggs has been doing.” The 6-5 Briggs, a senior, will
be out for a minimum of three weeks, but hopefully will be ready for action by March 12, when the
Eastern Regional semi-finals are being held at College Park. “Maybe,” muses Lefty, “the injury will inspire the boys to work
a little harder so that Paul will be able to play some more.” Maybe so. By the law of averages,
he’s about due for some good luck on his injuries. Last spring, an elbow ailment ended his career as a
starting pitcher for Coach Stevens’ Wildcat baseballers.

FOGLEMAN RACKING UP

Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman recently racked up on some more honors to add to an already long list. His proposal
at the annual meeting of U. S. Lawn Tennis Association for a national junior tennis circuit in the summer was
approved, and Fogleman was named chairman of the committee that is to put the circuit into operation. The new system
elevates the Southern Juniors and Boys Tournament, held annually on Davidson's courts, to the status of a sectional tournament, one
of four in the country leading to the nationals. Fogleman will also chair a three-man committee charged with the responsibility
of writing an instruction book for the USLTA on how to organize and run junior tournaments. In addition, Davidson's tennis
coach was offered the job as coach this summer of the United States Junior Davis Cup team, but, he says,
“I'll probably turn it down because of lack of time.” Little wonder.

IMPROVEMENTS AT LONG LAST

Duke Endowment came through with $20,000 recently to expand Davidson's athletic facilities for students. As Athletic Director Tom Scott points
out, this amount wouldn’t begin to pay for the gymnasium addition that is pretty badly needed, but the money will
help put in some outside playing courts. According to Scott, “Probably ten handball courts, four tennis courts, and two basketball
courts, all of an all-weather rubberized surfacing material, will be built.” Enabling students to play tennis in the winter and
expanding the over-crowded handball and basketball facilities, the improvements will do a lot toward providing Davidson with a first-class athletic
plant. But major improvements are also needed in the football facilities, especially the dressing rooms and the press box. And
the big problem—insufficient indoor facilities for winter-time sports—still persists.

Sigs Stay Unbeaten; Delts Only Challenger

With Bill Barnette rebounding from last week's low scoring effort with 31 points and Bill Childress contributing 20, the Sigma
Nus roared back from an 18-point deficit to tie the Phi Delts and send the game into overtime. One overtime
was not enough and, after the second extra period, the Nus and the Delts had to settle for a 71-71
deadlock Thursday afternoon. Goose Barrow steadied the Delt attack with 19 points as Ronnie Hunt exploded for 26. Buzzy Parker
broke into double figures with 11. The game will be replayed at a later date and will not affect this
week's standings.

The powerful Kappa Sigs capitalized on the Phi Gams’ floor mistakes and fast-breaked the Fijis to death for a 55-51
victory. Playmaker Buddy Dubose’s crisp passes and his teammates’ excellent shooting percentage kept four Sigs in double figures and Pete
Ort right behind with nine. Ray Garrison hit for 14 and Tucker Laxton, Stuart Burness and Dubose each ten points.

HETZEL HONORED

The men who ought to know, the coaches of the National Basketball Association (NBA), have named Don Hetzel as the
third man on their annual All-American team. “It's really an honor to be named on a team with such greats
as Bill Bradley and Cazzie Russell,” Hetzel remarked. “It’s a great feeling.” Named along with Hetzel (15 votes) were also
Dave Stallworth of Wichita State and Gail Goodrich of UCLA (both 18 votes). The NBA team is the first All-American
selection of major importance this year.

John Little had 13 in a losing cause. The Independents entered the final quarter trailing the Sigma Chis 47-41, but
outscored the Crusaders 7-3 in field goals in the fourth period to squeak out a 56-54 victory. With this win
the Indys moved ahead of the Machis in the standings. Gary Martin led the winners’ scoring with 14 points, while
Jim Fuller and Dave Johnson had 13 and 12, respectively. Geordie Mueller with 17, Joel Williamson with 14 and Basil
Hicks with 13 led the losers’ balanced attack.

The Pikas broke the .500 mark with a 52-34 trouncing of the Sig Eps, as Gink White towered above all
scorers with 16 points and Larry Outlaw added 11. Through Thursday's games the Sigs remained a full game ahead of
the Delts and two ahead of the surging Independents and the Machis. In the middle bracket the Fijis, who have
played only six games, lead the Pikas, and Alpha Tau Omega by a half game and the Nus by a
full game. Trailing the pack in a ninth place tie are the Pi Kapps, the SAE’s and the KA’s. The
Betas have a 1-7 slate and the Sig Eps have the cellar all to themselves with a record of seven
defeats. In other action, the SAE's smeared the Betas 64-39, and the Pi Kapps topped the KA's 39-29.

IMAC Basketball Standing
Kappa Sigs 8-0
Phi Delts 7-1
Independents 6-2
Sigma Chi 7-3
Phi Gams 4-2
Pikas 4-3
ATO’s 4-3
Sigma Nu 3-4
Pi Kapps 2-6
SAE’s 2-6
KA’s 2-6
Betas 1-7
Sig Eps 0-7

Regular Season Ends With Citadel; ‘Cats Sharpen Claws For Tourney

By SAM BOYTE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson faces the soldier boys of Citadel in Johnston Gym tomorrow night in their last regular-season game before the Southern
Conference Tournament next week. The last time Davidson and The Citadel met, the ‘Cats ran to a 100-81 win over
the Bull- (Photo by Eaton)

DON DAVIDSON CLAWS FOR TWO
Up And Over Terriers’ Porous Defense

Spiders, Mutts Victims Of Week’s BB Action

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Teague dribbles in the forecourt... then a bounce pass to Marcon... to Snyder in the corner... a drive by Davidson...
a quick flip to Hetzel for the basket... and the Cats steamroll past their 20th and 21st opponents in a
row. After ripping Richmond 83-73, the nation's fifth-ranked team completely annihilated the Terriers from Wofford, 117-72.

The Richmond Arena crowd witnessed a dull contest in which the only excitement was provided by the Spider's 5-11 guard,
Spike Welsh. Welsh connected on 15 of 25 field goal attempts, most coming from at least 15 feet, and led
both teams with 34 points. His 15 field goals were half of Richmond's total and kept the Spiders within a
respectable distance.

Junior jumping jack Dick Snyder was brilliant on both offense and defense for Davidson. In addition to compiling 26 points
and seven rebounds, the North Canton flash held Tom Tenwick, who averaged 19.3 points per game, to a mere six
points on one of eight floor shots. All-American Fred Hetzel continued to shine by throwing in 23 points and muscling
21 rebounds. Don Davidson with 10 points, Barry Teague with 12, and Charley Marcon’s 9 rounded out the scoring. Playmaker
Teague turned gunner at the start of the game and contributed eight points to the 20-8 lead which Lefty's boys
enjoyed after six minutes of play. His 12 points all came in the first half. Although the Wildcats experienced a
below average shooting percentage of 45 per cent, their 55-41 rebounding edge was decisive.

The cagers played as though they were glad to return to Johnston Gym in smashing Wofford 117-72. A hot 60.5
field goal percentage and a tight second-half defense combined for a lopsided victory in which all 11 Davidsonians scored. In
running their season record to 22-1, the home team led 57-43 at half-time and outscored the toothless Terriers 60-29 in
the final period. Captain Hetzel hit on 15 of 22 attempts for 33 points and managed 15 rebounds. He brought
the sellout crowd to its feet at one time by blocking two shots in rapid succession.

Dole Leaves Football To Enter Business

Former Head Football Coach Bill Dole has decided to give up coaching football and enter private business. In so doing,
Dole is turning down an assistant coaching position at the University of Richmond. Had Dole accepted this offer, he most
likely would have been given the job of backfield coach for the Spiders. However, Head Coach Ed Merrick's staff has
need of a line coach as well. The Charlotte Observer quoted Merrick as saying of Dole, “We would have complete
confidence in him in either position.”North Carolina coaching career of seventeen years. During the past twelve years at Davidson, Coach
Dole compiled a 43-66-4 record. Before coming here, he ran up a three-year 28-3-1 record and two state championships at
Fayetteville High School and a 7-2 record in one year with East Carolina. Tuesday, Dole announced that he would take
a job in the Charlotte area with a business concern. He says his new job is not connected with sports
in any way. “I will miss sports tremendously, after having worked with them for so many years. My final plans
are not yet complete but I will be working with personnel, which is what I am used to doing.”

Crowd pleaser Don Davidson twisted, turned, faked, and drove for 24 points on 11 of 14 tries. Snyder's 14 points
in the second half upped his total to 20 along with 12 rebounds. Guards Marcon and Teague harassed the enemy
with spirited defense and pumped in nine points and four points respectively. Ronnie Stone led the rapidly improving benchmen by
canning eight points. Buddy Hayes and George Lyons were the only bright spots for the visitors. Hayes collected 25 points
and Lyons got 23. However, tighter defense stopped Hayes and Lyons the second half with only 6 and 4 points
respectively. Although Coach Driesell was rightly pleased with the showing, he forecasts that, “A whole new season starts with the
Southern Conference Tournament.”

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

After jumping to an early lead, Davidson’s matmen held on to gain a 14-14 tie in Monday night’s match with
The Citadel. The Wildcats took the first four events to net a 14-0 advantage, but could not score in the
heavier divisions. In the first event of the evening, the 123-pound class, Joe Buffington pulled a 14-2 decision over Citadel's
George Cushnick. Buffington accumulated 10 points in the second period, scoring two near pins, a predicament, and a reverse. In
the 130-pound division, dogs at Charleston last month, at which time Citadel was a top contender for first place in
the conference standings.

“CARDIAC KIDS”

Their coach, Mel Thompson, called them the ‘cardiac kids’ because of the way that they had won their first victories
in the closing minutes of each game. Against Davidson, however, their desire forced them to be too tight, and the
‘Cats made a runaway of it. Saturday night, Davidson will be the uncontested owner of the top rung in the
Southern Conference ladder as the Wildcats are the only undefeated team in league play with eleven victories. Overall they are
22-1 with the longest win streak in the country, 21 wins, and are ranked fifth nationally by the Associated Press.
Wig Baumann, a 6-2 junior, is the leading scorer for the Bulldogs, averaging 15.1 points per game, the eighth highest
among Southern Conference scorers. Guard Clem Hartley and 6-5 forward Jim McCurdy are two juniors who may be threats to
the Wildcats. Davidson has the top two individual scorers in the conference in Fred Hetzel (26.2 average) and Dick Snyder
(20.6 average). They are second and fourth respectively in field goal percentage for the league. The Citadel has an 8-4
conference record, holding the third position in the league standings.

USUAL STARTERS

Davidson will start its usual five of Hetzel, Snyder, Don Davidson, Charlie Marcon, and Barry Teague. Senior Paul Briggs, number
six man on the squad, broke his foot warming up for last Tuesday's game against Wofford, and will not see
action for the rest of the regular season. Ronnie Stone, 6-3 junior, has replaced Briggs as Coach Lefty Driesell's top
sub. After The Citadel game, the Wildcats will concentrate on preparation for the Southern Conference Tournament which will be played
in the Charlotte Coliseum for the second straight year. VMI defeated George Washington 61-56 last year in the finals after
knocking off Davidson in the Semifinal round 82-81.

“CATS MEET NO. 8”

As the Wildcats’ victory over Richmond last Saturday night assured the team of top seeding in the tournament. At 2
p.m. the fourth-ranked team meets the fifth, a game which will pit George Washington against West Virginia, whom GW eliminated
from the tourney last year. Night action sees the second-place team, Virginia Tech, face the seventh, and the third, The
Davidson, Virginia Tech, and The Citadel have locks on the top three positions. Below this level, the situation is unclear.
West Virginia and George Washington are vying for fourth seed. They each have one game left, Virginia Tech and VMI,
respectively.

BOTTOM THREE

Positions six, seven, and eight can fall any way among William and Mary, Richmond, and VMI. “We can't know for
sure who we will play until this Saturday night,” commented Driesell. “I'm not afraid of any of them. It doesn’t
make any difference how the draw goes.” Davidson carries the Southern Conference's best offensive average (89.2 points per game) into
the coming fracas as well as the second-best defense (average yield, 71.5 points). The Wildcats also have the league's best
field goal percentage (50.9 percent).

Catfish Top Emory, Fall To Georgia

Davidson's swimmers dropped one meet to Georgia's Fish and then came back to defeat an outmanned Emory squad last week.
Powerful Georgia allowed the score to be a close 48-45 by swimming unofficially in many events. Davidson coach Dwight Shue
explained the reasoning behind this gesture, “It wouldn't prove anything for them to let out on. They spend more time
in the water and are consequently expected to win.” Tuesday the Catfish swam at Emory and ended up giving favors
just as Georgia had done. They could have beaten Emory a lot worse than the 54-39 score indicates. “We pulled
our horses out this time,” said Coach Shue. “Of course I wouldn't have done it if this had been a
Southern Conference team.” Soph diving star Butch Fallgrant broke his old school record of 202 points set two weeks ago
against The Citadel with a total of 205 points at Emory. Lloyd Davidson and Randy Hughes provided a strong one-two
punch in the individual medley competition. Tomorrow the Catfish swim a strong VMI team at Davidson. Shue wants this one
badly, having never beaten the Keydets before. On Tuesday and Wednesday Davidson finishes the season at Roanoke College and VPI.

Davidson meets the eighth-ranked team at 4 p.m. Thursday. Citadel goes against the sixth. On Friday, the winners of the
two Thursday afternoon games meet each other in the first game of a doubleheader. The second game is between the
victor of the two Thursday night games. Because of the odd number of teams in the nine-member conference, the team
with the lowest standing in regular season games is not participating in the tournament. Furman’s loss to The Citadel last
Tuesday night gave the Purple Paladins a 2-12 league record and eliminated them from tournament action.

FINAL SEEDINGS

Final seedings are indefinite, as all teams have at least one game remaining. Richmond has two more to go.

14-14 Soldiers Rally, Tie Grapplers

The Bulldogs continued their comeback as Steve Rothstein of the Citadel took a 4-0 decision over Terry O'Hair in the
167-pound division. Bobby Howard then suffered a 6-2 loss to the Bulldogs’ Bill Dewey in the 177-pound group, and the
score stood 14-9 in favor of the Wildcats, with only the heavyweight event remaining.

NICHOLS LOSES

The heavyweight event pitted Davidson's Eric Nichols against The Citadel's Steve Schwanda. Both of whom usually wrestle in the 167-pound
division. Schwanda, last year’s conference champion in the 147-pound event, had been held out of his regular event in order
to wrestle Nichols. The match was even until Nichols was caught and pinned with 1:30 remaining. Schwanda's pin tied the
match for the Bulldogs, 14-14. Coach Charles Parker reacted, “Schwanda is a real good wrestler, but I think Eric can
beat him four out of five matches. I could have told Eric to stay away from him and not get
pinned, but I told him to go out and win. He just got caught.” Parker pointed out that two members
of the squad, Bisard (7-0) and Buffington (5-0-2) are undefeated this year. He was also pleased with the performance of
Jesse Sims, who now has a 5-2 record. Asked if he was happy with the tie, Parker replied “Before the
match, I would have been, but after we were in front 14-0, I thought we had it won.”

DOING THE DOG

(Photo By Johnson) Jessie Sims Upends Bulldogs’ Mike Conrad
