FACULTY TOPS UNSUSPECTING FRESHMEN (See Page Three)

VOL. LV

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1965

UNDEFEATED ‘CATS FACE WILLIAM AND MARY (See Page Five)

NUMBER FIVE

IFC Hears Proposals By Freshman Council

The major business of the Interfraternity Council Monday night was concerned with the changes in rush regulations proposed by the
Freshman Council. In regard to the request for freshmen to hitchhike after 11 p.m. in upperclassmen's cars, the IFC established
an understanding that upperclassmen may give rides to freshmen to the campus after 11 p.m., providing that the ride is
not pre-arranged.

The IFC clarified further the rule concerning transportation of freshmen's dates to campus. The council agreed that freshmen dates may
ride with upperclassmen’s dates as long as the arrangements are made between the girls concerned and not by the Davidson
freshmen and upperclassmen. The freshmen may also apply to the IFC Transportation Committee to approve arrangements for transportation of their
dates in extenuating circumstances. This comes under the old transportation rule and questions and requests should be made to Stan
Brown (Duke 136) and Dave Pertin (Belk 460).

The Freshman Council request to delay acceptance of bids until a few days after Christmas break could not be acted
upon by the Interfraternity Council as this rule was set up by the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social
Life. In response to the last request of the Freshman Council, the IFC will have representatives at Freshman Council meetings
in the future to answer any questions which should arise concerning rush regulations.

In discussing homecoming decorations, the council said that it will sponsor the decorations as usual because it feels that these
“are a large part of the tradition of Homecoming at Davidson or any other college.”

Y Tops $3,500 Goal

Davidson's “Great Guys” contributed more than $1,300 to the YMCA's annual fund drive to put the Y over the top
in this year’s goal of $3,500. Some 120 YMCA volunteers participated in the drive which actually began last week with
the placing of “Are You a Great Guy” signs in conspicuous places about the campus.

Yesterday's activities began with the placing of leaflets under the doors of all rooms, explaining the Y's activities and goals
for the year. Banners and posters were displayed in numerous spots around campus. Yesterday's chapel was used to remind students
of YMCA Day. The funds raised will be used to support both student and community work, including the YMCA Forum,
Great Issues, Book-of-the-Year, Freshman Camp and the Gift Fund. Each student was asked to contribute $5 toward the $3,500 goal.
Contributors were given a YMCA membership card entitling them to use any YMCA facilities in the United States. Contributors also
wore GG (Great Guy) buttons which could be seen in abundance before the day was over.

LOGAN LOSES TRADITIONAL COOLNESS. “God, I'm Happy”

Logan’s ‘Wanda Foreaw’ Causes Pandemonium

By ALLEN WEBB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Near pandemonium broke out in Duke Dormitory Sunday afternoon when senior Bill Logan learned that Charlotte radio station WIST had
named him the winner of $1,240 in its “Name the Girl on the Billboard” contest. Naturally, Logan was the happiest
one of them all and somewhat surprised too. Although he did not think he would win, he had tuned in
precisely to hear the announcement of the winner.

The station had initiated the contest in August as a promotional stunt with the display of the nameless girl's picture
on billboards all over Charlotte. A fetching blond, reclining while wrapped in a towel, she attracted the eye of many
a pedestrian and motorist. Logan named her “Wanda Foureau” (wan duh fore oh), the phonetical name for 1240, the call
number of WIST. He mailed in this entry in mid-September along with the names “Charlotte Wister” and “Charlotte Wistener.” Logan
admitted that the “Common Girl Names” section in Webster's had helped him in creating this name as well as an
advertising jingle on WIST itself. Because he thought the station management would want as much advertising mileage as possible, he
concluded that a name involving the station, its call letters or call number would have a greater chance of winning.

After calling WIST Sunday afternoon to verify the announcement, Logan telephoned the good news to his father in Jackson, Ala.
His reaction: “Well, that’s really good, son. Have you got any other news?” Thus the elder Logan assumed the role
of the traditionally cool Davidson Gentleman and left his son to exclaim, “God, I’m happy!”

In a telephone conversation Wednesday, WIST Program Director Ed Dean described Logan's winning entry as “most imaginative” and “kind of
unusual.” He said that among the nearly 8,500 entries only four were really very good. One runner-up he cited was
“Anita Station.”

“I am very disappointed I did not get to meet the girl I named,” lamented Logan this week, but he
does have $1,240 to console him. Most of the money is already spent, however. He will apply it to second
semester expenses and he hopes to have a small amount left over.

Faculty Modifies Drinking Rule; Trustees May Review Action

‘Gentlemanly Conduct’ Will Apply Off Campus

Davidson students may consume alcoholic beverages at any time away from the college campus, whether as a member of a
college-sponsored group or otherwise, if action taken by the faculty this week is upheld by the Board of Trustees at
its upcoming meeting.

Under the new ruling, students are still prohibited from consuming or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while
within the town limits of Davidson or on the campus of the college, which includes the lake campus. Otherwise, students
will be bound by the “gentlemanly conduct” clause of the faculty regulations, which states in part, “Any student who is
guilty of ungentlemanly conduct or whose conduct is such as to attract unfavorable attention to himself or to Davidson College
may expect disciplinary action.”

The amendments to the faculty regulations are subject to review by the Board of Trustees here next week. President D.
Grier Martin stated that the trustees will meet Thursday to consider the matter and to decide what to present.Trustees at
its semi-annual meeting here next Friday. The action by the faculty Tuesday afternoon came after recommendations were submitted from a
joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on Alcoholic Beverage Policy. The five-man committee recommended a lesser change which would prohibit drinking at any
event sponsored by Davidson or in which students were participating as representatives of the college. Also, the committee recommendation would
prohibit possession or consumption during a period of travel as a representative of the college. Another committee recommendation which eliminates
the requirement for chaperones at off-campus social functions was approved by the faculty. Because the faculty action does not conform
to the recommendations of the joint committee, the new ruling may be considered at length by the Trustees. The joint
committee will meet again.

Following is the text of the amendments adopted by the faculty Tuesday:

Complete Text Of Amendment (Continued On Page Six)

Item 5 of the Faculty Regulations on Student Conduct (Wildcat Handbook pp. 62-63) is amended to read:

5. Alcoholic Beverages. Davidson College is opposed to the use of alcoholic beverages by students. A student will ordinarily be
suspended if he is found guilty of violating any of the following regulations:
a. No student shall consume or be under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while he is within the Town
Limits of Davidson or on the campus of Davidson College (which includes the Lake Campus) unless he is within the
home of his immediate family.
b. No student shall have an alcoholic beverage in his possession within the Town Limits of Davidson or on the
Campus of Davidson College other than in the home of his immediate family or in the locked trunks of student
automobiles.

Student drinking not covered by these regulations may be dealt with under Item I of the Faculty Regulations stated under
STUDENT CONDUCT. (The student should be familiar with relevant portions of public law dealing with the purchase, consumption, and automobile
storage of alcoholic beverages.)

Item 3 of Section II of the Faculty Regulations on Fraternities and Social Clubs (Wildcat Handbook pp. 67) is amended
to read:

Each fraternity or social club may give off-campus social functions. These functions are for one night only, and ordinarily may
be held on Saturday nights only. Off-campus social events sponsored by student organizations, groups of students or individual students acting
as groups (including those social events in which non-students are co-sponsors) shall be registered in advance with the Office of
the Dean of Students or with the Interfraternity Council, and shall be governed by the “gentlemanly conduct” clause, Item I
of the Faculty Regulations on Student Conduct.

Fraternities To Evaluate Relationship To College
By WALT DRAKE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson’s 12 social fraternities will receive a questionnaire next week prepared by the new Social Life Evaluation Committee. Each of
the fraternities will be requested to file a written report, due on Nov. 22, expressing the attitude of their membership
toward the place of their fraternity in the life of the college as a whole. In their answers, the fraternities
will be expected to present their attitudes toward the present relationship between fraternity life and the academic life and extracurricular
activities of the college. They will also be asked their attitudes toward national affiliation, what specific benefits they hope to
offer new members, what type of students they consider as most desirable for membership in their group, what system of
election to fraternities they advocate, and their attitudes toward “black-ball” systems, selective bidding, and open bidding. The fraternities will also
be asked to include in their reports their opinions of the new delayed rush system. The answers to these questions
can be written by a fraternity member, a committee of members, or the entire fraternity. The only stipulation is that
it be approved by a majority of the fraternity before being submitted to the Social Life Evaluation Committee.

Professor Anthony Abbott, a member of the committee, was quick to emphasize that “these are not loaded questions or questions
that imply there is anything wrong with fraternities. This is in no sense a kind of ultimatum to the fraternities
to justify themselves or perish.” Rather, Abbott explained, the committee hopes to assemble as much relevant information as possible about
the fraternity situation on the Davidson campus. Abbott commented that through this questionnaire the committee hopes to be able to
understand the official viewpoint of the individual fraternities. He noted that last year’s Fraternity Evaluation Committee was criticized many times
for being composed of so many anti-fraternity men and having no official fraternity statements.

The Social Life Evaluation Committee was organized last spring. Four students and five faculty and administration members were appointed to
the committee by President D. Grier Martin “to observe and evaluate the results of the recommended changes” in the fraternity
situation at Davidson. The committee is required to report its findings and recommendations to the faculty in February. The findings
will be considered when the faculty makes its decision on whether or not to keep the delayed rush system, to
adopt sophomore rush, or to revert to the first-week-of-school rush system in 1967.

Another project of the committee is already in progress. On Sept. 28 the faculty received a questionnaire from the committee
asking for their observation of student conduct in classes during the first week or ten days of the semester as
compared with the conduct in recent years. Thirty-nine faculty members indicated that they saw an improvement in class attitude and
work of the students in what was in previous years the period of fraternity rush. Eight professors indicated that they
did not see any improvement. Other results of this poll have not yet been analyzed according to Dr. W. G.
Workman, who heads the committee. However, one student member of the committee indicated that some of the faculty members who
were very anti-fraternity during last year's fraternity con-

(Continued On Page Six)

COMPLAINTS CONTINUE

and guests who are on campus for the football game and who will eat lunch at the Union. Since Slater's
is experiencing a severe shortage of help, the college has pressed its maintenance crew into overtime work to assist with
these luncheons. Faculty and administration members have joined students in criticizing cafeteria conditions. Family members have also been especially critical
of the snack bar. One student said that on Sunday night, when he was at the snack bar, French fries
were being served in cardboard boxes, there was only one kind of soft drink being served, the coffee was not
hot, and the selection of pastries was very poor. Two students reported seeing a rat dart across the floor at
the snack bar last Thursday night. The girl who was working there said, “He probably went into the dining room;
that’s where he usually goes.” Another student complained about bad meat served last week: “There was only one choice of
meat, steak. My ‘steak’ had fallen off the bone, and the meat tasted and smelled bad. Several other students and
I complained to Mr. Hill, who told us he thought the meat was all right, and didn’t even give a
hint of an apology.” Three weeks ago, Hill promised the students that there would be at least two new meat
dishes at every meal. Other students have reported that trays continue to collect in the dining room when students have
finished eating. One sophomore complained in particular that there have been trays in the dining room at breakfast which were
left from the night before on several occasions recently. There have been numerous complaints about the food and the quality
of food. One complaint referred to the fact that at several lunches this week there has been only one type
of dessert, and that rolls, when they are served, are never heated. Another remark noted that trays are often dirty,
and stuck together by food. Several sophomores and juniors claim that the food and service is much poorer than it
was last year. They particularly complained about slow-moving food lines. One of them noted that there are now only two
servers on the lines, while last year there were nearly always three. In addition, many claim that the student workers
are especially slow because they spend time talking with students in the lines. Other upperclassmen complained that, unlike last year,
no peanut butter or honey is ever served, and there is very rarely but one kind of salad dressing. Hill
promised some sophomores over three weeks ago that his menus would be posted if a bulletin board were put up,
and that he would have fresh fruit on the serving lines as an alternative to desserts. Those sophomores pointed out
this week that neither of these has been done.
