Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Strangulation

If all mankind minus one, were of one opinion, and only one person were of the contrary opinion, mankind would be no more justified in silencing that one person, than he, if he had the power, would be justified in silencing mankind. A silencing of discussion is an assumption of infallibility.

Davidson's faculty assumed a proper position of leadership in North Carolina education at its January meeting. Acting on the recommendation of the local chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), the faculty overwhelmingly approved a resolution calling for the revocation of the “Speaker Ban Law.”

The faculty's move merits commendation. And equally worthy of praise are the efforts of a small group of Davidson students who revealed this week that they are seeking to work in conjunction with the AAUP.

* * * *

The “Speaker Ban Law” has led a brief yet stormy life. Passed two years ago, the law has been castigated by educational officials and news media alike. Nevertheless, as the General Assembly convened again this week, revocation appeared unlikely. Wary politicians mused over the innumerable possibilities opponents would have for misconstruing the intent of a vote against the act.

Needed is a strong display of public opposition to the “Gag Law.” And the opposition must be articulated clearly and loudly now if there is to be any hope for favorable action in this session.

Our attention is not drawn to the question of the legality of the “Speaker Ban Law.” The legality of the act has been incisively challenged by students of law. And no well-founded defenses have been offered in response. Rather our concern is as members of an educational community. Actual restraint following from the law has been limited, but the threat of restraint is widespread and frightening.

The “Gag Law”—which, in effect, is a directive to officials at state institutions—was passed quickly and quietly in the closing minutes of the last legislative session. No educational leaders were consulted; indeed, they were not even informed of the move. And yet the very nature of the relationship of state government to education was being overhauled.

More important than the curtailment of free speech is the threat to academic freedom. The late Alexander Meiklejohn, once president of Amherst College, explained:

College . . . is essentially, not accidentally, a place of freedom. It is a place in which the human mind is seeking deliverance from its bonds—the bonds of partial knowledge and self-interest. It has no hope of fully achieving such freedom, and yet this end defines its work. Men form their opinions from partial knowledge; the college must know, so far as may be known, all that the human mind has thought and learned which bears on these opinions. Men fashion their thoughts according as their interests and activities have molded and shaped their minds; the college may have no special interests shaping it. It must in this sense stand apart, viewing all interests of men alike with equal eye, and measuring each in terms of every other and the whole. It is a place of knowledge and of criticism.

Certainly there are limits which must be observed. David Fellman expressed this concisely when he said: “Democracy has no obligation of any kind to commit suicide.” But Fellman quickly added: “Short of the point of incitement to crime, our system must rely upon the free flow of ideas.”

Meiklejohn pursued the point further:

What then is academic freedom? It is, it seems to me, the very quality of a college. The question whether or not a college is free is meaningless. An institution which is not intellectually free is not a college, whatever else it be. States may be servants of partial insights and partial interests, and so may factories and corporations, and even schools of medicine; but not so colleges. A college is our social and individual striving to escape the bonds which the world’s work would fix upon us. It is the search for freedom from ourselves.

For an educational institution to attempt to function within a framework of certain preconceived notions is impossible: education in the purest and noblest sense cannot exist in such environs. “Any system of thought that we accept as absolute—‘This is it’—precludes, to the extent that we accept it, any further willingness to search or to learn in its area.” The free and open exposition of all ideas—no matter how foreign, no matter how repulsive—must be continued on the campus of North Carolina if “education” is to continue in its truest sense. And the administration of education must be left in the hands of the educators if “education” is to continue in any sense of the word.

Of Vows

Henry Steele Commager, the noted American historian and professor, when he heard of the Davidson “vow” recently, reportedly responded: “My God, man! What do the Jewish professors do?”

Quietus

Number two in the distinguished Reynolds Lecture Series for this year stole quietly onto campus last week. Like Mark Van Doren before him, Dr. Eugene Wigner successfully avoided the perils of overexposure through ingenious scheduling and a remarkable performance by the college’s public relations organs. No advance notice crossed the DAVIDSONIAN’s desk; no drums, no trumpets—not even a crudely fashioned poster heralded the coming of the 1963 winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics.

The morning announcement sheet is not the most reliable avenue of communication; neither is a letter from Dean Johnston's office stuffed into faculty mailboxes five days ahead of time, and during the exams to boot. Those of us who happened to see the routine announcement of Dr. Wigner’s lecture in the Charlotte Observer were aware, at least, of his brief sojourn on campus Monday. The rest of us learned after the fact, in chapel Tuesday. As a result of this careful planning, our famous “student apathy” didn’t even get a chance to rebuff the distinguished visitor from Oak Ridge.

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

Asst. Managing Editor
John Bailey

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Copy Editor
Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors
Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel
Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Ignorance Abroad

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Mixon Political Opinions Draw Foreign Criticisms

Dear Editor:

I wish to thank Monsieur Mixon (cf. “World Travel Reactions” etc.) for his personal observations on European life. I would like to take issue with him on several points, but since I have unfortunately not been able to travel so extensively, I must limit my comments to his reactions to Germany and the German people.

To be sure, it is one thing to make observations, and quite another to construct generalizations upon them. It seems to me that Mr. Mixon has erected several faulty superstructures upon a rather small number of observations.

According to Mr. Mixon, other Europeans, notably those further south, rebuke the Germans with “cultural achievements are more important than highways and factories.” Here I content myself to say that I simply cannot understand the sense of the complaint. Those who doubt the significance of the German cultural tradition and achievements, past and present, I leave to the capable hands of Dr. Wruck (and may he have mercy upon you!)

GERMAN MENTALITY?

“Aber jetzt kommen wir vom Regen in die Traufe!” That was bad enough, but the attempt to characterize the German “mentality” I find to be an utter disaster. In the first place, I feel justified in challenging Mr. Mixon’s qualifications to handle this most complex question. I judge from his article that he has spent only a limited time in Germany and has seen rather a small area. I also believe he speaks French but not German. How much contact has Mr. Mixon actually had with the people he attempts to characterize?

I would be a bit suspicious of any attempt to sweepingly characterize a group of people from their behavior crossing the street, even if the survey were scientifically conducted. But Mr. Mixon’s most unscientific jumping-to-a-conclusion borders between the ridiculous and the utterly ridiculous. He has indeed himself ignored a few caution and stop lights, and so has only himself to blame if he gets run down by a Volkswagen!

It is after all, a very real question whether such a thing as a German “mentality” actually exists. Different regions present varying pictures of what a German is like, and German youth differs greatly from the adult society—two of the most obvious of many factors of variance.

Furthermore, it seems to me, one who wants to understand and describe a nation of people must first come to know many individuals, and not merely a shallow stereotype, before he begins to induct general characteristics. Monsieur Mixon must have realized that the conclusions he has so haphazardly drawn are not idle or inconsequential ones. When he mentions “the terrific German mentality,”

Dear Editor:

As a German student of the Philipps—Universität acquainted with some students of your exchange program, I have read the article “World Travel Reactions” with great interest, especially those paragraphs concerning my own country. That is the reason why I am writing this letter.

At the first reading I was disturbed and took some time to consider the questions Mr. Mixon tried to outline. I would say that I agree with many of the facts he has mentioned butof doing only what you are told to do” and speaks of the Germans as “pedantic, non-questioning followers,” one’s thoughts inevitably turn to the last 60 years of German history, and more especially to the last World War and the Fascist dictatorship. A blanket smear of the Germans in this fashion, without the slightest mention of the maze of historical, economical, social, and political questions involved, is unworthy of a serious student. Moreover, it smacks of a determinism which actually frees the Germans of any guilt in these events. After all, if the Germans were and are saddled with the “mentality” Ms. Mixon describes, then only fate is to blame that they followed Kaiser, Reichskanzler, and Fuehrer, and any democratic experiment in Germany, past or present, is doomed, a fool’s waste of time, money, lives, and the world’s peace. Therefore, if in later articles of this “Innocents Abroad” series, the German “mentality” is mentioned, I must take what follows “cum grano salis” (oder mit einem Fass Bier!).

AUTHORITY AND PEOPLE

The question of the relationship between authority and people in German states of the past and present—I assume the possibility of change—is an important one, but one to be soberly and carefully approached. The following estimation stems from the pen of Protestant Pastor Dietrich Bonhoeffer, who in 1945 was executed by the Nazis for subversive activities against the regime and against the person of the Fuehrer: “Who would wish to disagree with the German that he has achieved again and again in duty, mission, and vocation, the utmost in bravery and sacrifice... But hereby he had misunderstood the world; he had not realized that his readiness to subordinate himself, to sacrifice for the sake of his mission, could be misused to an evil end... It had to become apparent that the Germans lacked a crucial, fundamental realization, the concept of the free, responsible act against vocation and mission.” (my translation)

IMPORTANT QUESTIONS

Have potentially undemocratic habits and patterns of thinking existed in the German people to a substantial or dangerous degree? Do they exist today? How are these habits and patterns caused and conditioned, historically and otherwise? How, as growing, living entities, have they tended to develop and change? And, most important, how might such tendencies be altered or remedied? These are questions with which modern Germans—politicians, political and social scientists, students, and the average man, are grappling. From my few months here it appears quite obvious to me that the Germans are still actively engaged in the process of learning from and atoning for the Third Reich, Ms. Mixon’s fantastic accusation—they aren't “the least sorry”—to the contrary. But with this point, I should like to begin in another letter.

Hank Taylor
Marburg, Germany

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

Plato's Elements Meet ‘Ram-bam’ And Greeks
By CHARLES RAMBERG, Davidsonian Associate Editor

The soul of man is divided into three elements—the appetitive, the spirited, and the rational—the philosopher said over two millennia ago, and the harmony of those three parts is to be called justice. Plato never heard of Greek letter social fraternities, but the tools he used to understand men can be used to decide what are the valid purposes of a fraternity system. Hopefully, the college will provide for the satisfaction of the rational element, not merely by stating the student’s desire for facts but also by pointing out ways to keep under control the potentially disruptive spirited and appetitive elements. As we near the conclusion of the shenanigans of Greek Week tonight, it is difficult to deny that the fraternities do not at least occasionally obstruct the formal education process. It is probably safe to say that fraternities, allowing for differences in individual members, pretty frequently get in the way of education by creating competing demands for the student’s time.

The second part of the Platonic soul, the spirited element, is nurtured by a program of extracurricular activities such as athletics, publications, student government, etc. that provide honors for the best competitors. It is possible that Davidson fraternities help develop the spirited element by encouraging their members to participate in the extracurricular program. The third element, the appetites, may or may not exist only to be controlled by the rational element. The important point for us is that the appetites must be considered. The detriment fraternities work on the education process might justify their abolition if Davidson College had not so completely ignored the problem of providing some minimal satisfaction for the appetites—i.e., a social program. The college’s pussyfooting on the alcohol issue is sufficient indication that it is not willing to provide an on-campus social program that will satisfy student desires. The college can hardly be expected to circumvent its own rules by providing off-campus social life, so some other institution is needed to minister to social needs. Fraternities, then, do seem to have an important role to play on this campus, particularly in light of the college’s refusal to provide the social outlet for appetitive energies.

At this point, it is time to stop abusing Plato and consider whether restrictive fraternity membership policies are necessary to the maintenance of a fraternity system with the limited goal of providing a social outlet. We think not. Except in the last maudlin moments of Rush Week, when tears flow and bull flies, it would be difficult to find a fraternity man on this campus who would characterize fraternal brotherhood as the mystical union that some seem to think it is. The truth of brotherhood is to be found somewhere between bare tolerance and fraternal love, making brotherhood not unlike other human relationships. We believe, then, that a system of 100 percent bidding would not impair the ability of fraternities to provide a social outlet that all students ought to have access to.

When we wrote a letter to the Charlotte Observer chiding the professors of this college for turning their attention from the faculty vow to the state speaker-ban law, we were sure that some local fundamentalist would assure us that there is nothing wrong with a requirement that is based on the assumption that one of the many religious doctrines (Christianity) is the truth. We hardly expected to find a Davidson alumnus supporting the faculty vow requirement on the basis that there is no doubt that Christianity is the truth. But the Rev. Joe S. Hopper of Decatur, Ga. was so anxious to let us know how he felt that he sent us a copy of his letter to the Observer. The Observer chose not to bore its readers with Mr. Hopper’s scriptural references to the dire fate that awaits unbelievers. We are happy to hear from such an unimpeachable source as Mr. Hopper, a former Presbyterian minister to Korea, that Christianity is the truth, and “that outside of faith in Jesus Christ there is no salvation.” At the close of his letter, he voiced once again the often-heard doctrine that a private institution such as Davidson College has every “right” to insist on the faculty vow. The college’s “right” is hardly the question at issue. Rather the question is one of whether the college “ought” to damage academic freedom at this institution with such a requirement. Of course, that question is of no import for those who agree with Mr. Hopper that the purpose of Davidson College is “Christian training” rather than the liberation of minds.

Alpha Eta, the society for the most unsavory characters on the Davidson campus, grows larger day by day as the SAE's who originated this select group and gave it its true name (obscene and therefore unprintable) find more candidates who meet the exciting standards. We were initially flattered when we learned that we had been elected to head the AH list. But after considering the weight of the honor, we have decided that we are unable to do justice to it, either by providing leadership for Alpha Eta or by setting a proper example. So that Alpha Eta will lack neither leadership nor examples, we are turning our duties over to Dan Hanks, Charlie Smith, and Chip Tate, a troika of

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

German Student Blasts Mixon's Travelogue

not with the way he interprets and with the conclusions which he has drawn. To have a non-conforming opinion is said to be a characteristic sign of individualism, but judgment normally means more; it means objectivity, and must be based on a sound understanding of the problem. That is unfortunately what I do not find in this article. I doubt whether such a thing as a “national mentality” exists, and, to my mind, it is in this case an inadmissible generalization. I do not wish to criticize his personal opinion, but I would criticize the methods of reaching this judgment.

In one paragraph he compared the French and German “mentalities” concluding that the French are individuals, doing always the unexpected and the Germans are just the opposite. We are, I quote Mr. Mixon, “a nation of pedantic, non-questioning followers.” To me, I feel that he had his opinion about my country when he entered, extracting only facts to support it. Reading his article reminds me of clichés but not of critical travel reactions; I tend to think that these clichés might have been taken from some events of German history. Indeed he may easily have come to them by considering some of our questionable German traditions; but these are not the only ones we have, and they are far from being symptomatic of our “mentality.” Other political and cultural traditions support other conclusions.

I wonder if Mr. Mixon is well informed about the many various political and cultural influences of our history, but it seems to me absolutely impossible to characterize a “mentality” from the standpoint of some—it is a pity to say—superficial first impressions. Another questionable thesis is what he says about cultural achievements and their relationship to modern industry production. Mr. Mixon seems to suggest that there is an inevitable conflict between the two. If that is true, then it is a real problem for both Germans and Americans.

Hans-Rudolph Sattler
Marburg, Germany