PAGE SIX

‘Big Idea’ Draws Praise

(Editor's Note: The following article, written by Davidson student Bedford Aiken, reviews “What's the Big Idea?”, a series of four
plays concerning modern man, his frustrations and false gods. The production was given by the Theatre of Concern and sponsored
by the Davidson YMCA.)

By BEDFORD AIKEN

A Review

Someone asked me to write something about a group of plays I saw called “What's The Big Idea?” Well, I'm
not really well-versed on the tribal customs governing the writing of critiques. I guess you're supposed to tell all the
people who didn’t come just what happened, and what you thought was good, and what you thought was bad, and
what people are supposed to think about the play. Just fill up the space on the page with stuff like
that, and you're a real live critic. Big deal!

At 8:20, Hodson Hall was covered by an emptiness which has come to be expected at Davidson, but would be
considered rude anywhere else. To my knowledge, there was not one faculty member there. On the stage were two of
those wooden chairs like you see all over the Fine Arts Building if you ever go over there. There were
some clothes draped on the chairs. Finally, Norman and Sandra Dietz realized that out there was all the audience they
were going to get for their performance at Davidson. So they walked on the stage and started talking.

They did four plays and preceded each one with a pseudo-spontaneous lecture. Then they launched into some kind of dialogue.
The first one, “The Well-Spoken Acrobat,” labored too long on the one fresh pun, knot hole—not hole—not whole. The second
one, the life of Christ and his role in human salvation. As could only be expected, the allegory broke down
in the same spot as the kerygma—incarnation, atonement, and that doctrine that says this was all God's plan. The drama
as a device for story-telling far outshined the story itself.

After intermission came the dramatic high point of the evening—the performance of Lagerkvist’s “Oratorium.” Dietz assumed the roles of both
Christ and Judas Iscariot. An apparently good translation of the original work into the contemporary idiom helped the spectator be
reminded that he had a lot in common with both of the humans being portrayed. It must be said that
Judas was a far stronger character than Christ and was at once beautiful as a piece of literary accomplishment and
as an ugly mirror for the few humans in the audience.

The performance concluded with “The Last Word,” a dialogue between an upper-middle-class husband and wife who were seated in a
bar discussing the fact that the world would end that night. The big idea of this final work included and
surpassed that of the first play. After the performance, Mr. and Mrs. Dietz came out and talked to a group
of students in the chorus room. There were some of those questions asked that everybody already knew the answers to.
One of the best remarks was made by Mr. Dietz. “Sometimes institutions walk around dead for years and years without
being buried.” The evening as a whole was well worth taking in. There were people talking about Christian concern. Prayer
meeting was going on over at the church at the same time, and I've heard that that’s where lots of
the potential audience was. Why do the church and the Fine Arts Building stand opposite one another?

Finalists Arrive On Campus

Between 30 and 35 scholarship finalists arrived at Davidson yesterday afternoon for the annual scholarship weekend. The finalists’ schedule during
their visit includes a Thursday night reception at the Guest House with the Scholarship Committee, headed by Dr. W. G.
McGavock; individual interviews with the committee today and tomorrow morning; and several meals with fraternities. There was a private coffee
at the Union for the finalists and the faculty during chapel period today. A private dinner was held tonight in
the Union for the scholars, their hosts, and the Scholarship Committee. During the time when specific activities have not been
scheduled, contestants will be given “free run” of the campus, according to Bob Young, assistant director of admissions. At this
time they may audit classes, watch athletic teams work out, or visit the various buildings. Most of this year's finalists
are from the Southeast, with two from the Midwest and one from the North. Young was enthusiastic, “This is a
fantastic group of boys, the cream of the crop.”

Doris Davis Killed In Sunday Incident

Miss Doris Davis, long-time employee of the College Cafeteria, was killed Sunday afternoon while attempting to break up an argument
at the home of her cousin in Cornelius. H. R. Bryson, cafeteria manager, said he did not know how long
Miss Davis had worked at the Union. “She was here before Slater’s came. That was 1957," he said. She was
popular with her fellow workers, students, and faculty members. Her familiar “May I help you please” was always remembered. Bryson
said, “She was dependable. I didn’t realize how popular she was with the students until this happened. It was a
tragedy, and we'll miss her.” A fund for her family has been established by the college. Contributions can be made
at the Alumni office.

PROFESSORS (Continued from Page 1)

He commented that many of them are traveling widely, meeting many different people, and gaining a fluency in the language
that no amount of classroom or language lab study could offer. The president, who attended the International Conference of Student
Exchange and Travel Programs in Cannes, France, said the faculty that he was amazed at the number of similar study-abroad
programs run by colleges and universities in the United States. Also in line with the study-abroad programs, Martin announced that
he will attend the meeting of the Southern University Conference, in Hot Springs, Ark., April 21-23. He commented that as
a director in the organization he is in charge of one program.

YMCA'S THEATRE OF CONCERN

After Vespers

“I’m strictly off the record.”

OPEN END?

“If there are any reporters here, just put up your notes.”

With these three statements, Professor George L. Abernethy, a member of the Philosophy Department, began his remarks at what was
supposed to be an open house.

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Abbott, Fogleman, King, Puckett, Abernethy, Fredericksen, Martin, G. Woods, Blackwell, Hogan, Meeks, Williams, T. A., Bliss, Hopkins, Outlaw, Clark, McGavock,
Partridge.

Par Makes P Chevy

By TIM ROTHERMEL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“It’s almost as if Santa Claus had come to these boys,” said Dean of Students Richard C. Burts as he
explained that 15 Davidson students will be given new Chevrolets for a 30-day evaluation. “This evaluation,” continued Burts, “is purely
from an engineering standpoint and no sales will be involved in any way with the distribution of the automobiles. The
cars, 15 new Chevrolet Impala Super Sports, will be presented to the students at a banquet on March 18. The
maintenance, including gasoline, insurance, and any repairs will be assumed by the Chevrolet Division of General Motors. Students will be
free to drive the cars anywhere they desire over the spring holidays which fall within the 30-day period. Included with
the opportunity of using these cars is the corresponding obligation on the part of the student operators to evaluate the
automobiles.giving the company an idea of what engineering and styling influences particularly appeal to college men.

Two relatively minor changes have been made in this year’s elections policy. The publication and distribution of the candidates’ platforms
will be more carefully regulated, and the elections schedule has been shortened to stimulate more interest and greater participation.

The Student Council believes that an active, effective, and responsible elections organization can be maintained at Davidson without resorting to
the extremes of campus political parties, big campaigns, and all of the characteristic uproar that surrounds such systems. In the
last two years, several significant changes have been made in our own elections procedure to allow for the increased expression
of individual ideas, legitimate concern, and the personal ambition to successfully fill an office. In this light then, the student
body elections of this spring will continue the emphasis of last year’s balloting, stressing a compact elections schedule and demanding
evidence of personal interest and initiative on the part of the candidates. Importance is given to these areas of concern
in the hope that the election of next year’s officials will be based on a candidate’s earnest desire and ability
to serve, rather than on any fraternity or popularity bias. It is hoped that this philosophy will bring to positions
of responsibility only those people who are really willing and capable to bear that responsibility, and that those who might
run only for personal or fraternity prestige will be quickly eliminated. If this is indeed the case, next year’s slate
of officers will have the drive, skill, and cooperation that they will need to do their job properly.

Details concerning the basketball camp to be held at Davidson for four one-week sessions were given to the faculty by
Martin. He explained that there will be 100 boys attending each session, and although not designed solely for such a
purpose, the camp should prove to promote good public relations.

Will Jackson
Student Body President

The 15 students, chosen by Burts and Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith, were picked, according to Burts,
“to represent each fraternity, Lingle Manor, and Independents.” Good academic standing was necessary and the students were also selected as
seniors who had been active as campus leaders and were men who showed “a willingness to talk and have ideas.”
The students are: John Barrow, Dick Bates, John Bordley, Pete Crow, Don Davidson, Rufus Hallmark, Jim Hardwick, Tommy Heffner, Will
Jackson, Bill Jacobs, Zach Long, Gary Martin, Art Ross, Rick von Unwerth, and Bill Wideman.

“The banquet will probably be the finest ever held at the College Union,” said Burts, explaining that Chevrolet was furnishing
the meal. J.C. Green, assistant manager of Chevrolet’s National Owner Relations Department, will host the banquet. At this meeting, there
will be an hour-and-a-half discussion with the men who receive the cars to learn their impressions of automobiles in general.
This information will be taped and combined with the critiques of the new Chevrolets by the students to be used
with similar information from other schools to make long-range planning goals.

Other schools involved in this program, two from each Chevrolet Sales District in the nation, are: Indiana University, Southern Methodist
University, University of New Mexico, Hanover College, Tulane University, University of Arkansas, Drake University, University of Wichita, Stanford University, University
of Oregon, Johns Hopkins University, Villanova University, North Dakota State, Marquette University, University of Vermont, Bowling Green State University, Western
Michigan University, and University of Georgia.

Davidson was suggested as a possible evaluating school by S. T. Ball of the Chevrolet Division in Charlotte after talking
with Dr. Warner Hall, a trustee of the college and minister of Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. This type of
evaluation has been recently adopted by Chevrolet, which in the past gave one person in a test group of about
20 people the use of a new car. The new method of limiting the number of participants and increasing the
number of cars is felt will increase the accuracy of the study and provide the company with more definite suggestions
and evaluations.

FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1965

Dr. Benjamin E. Mays, president of Morehouse College in Atlanta, Ga., will preach at Sunday night vespers. Mays, a native
of Georgia and former Dean of the School of Religion at Howard University, is a graduate of Bates College and
the University of Chicago. He has received numerous honorary degrees from institutions throughout the country. An ordained minister, Mays was
Gay Lecturer at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky., and initiated the Henry B. Wright Lecture Series at Yale
Divinity School. In addition to the 1945 Letter Award from Letter magazine for outstanding work in the field of education,
he was awarded the 1950 Texas State Fair Award for outstanding work in human relations. Mays is the author of
several books in the fields of religion and race relations, his latest being “The Christian In Race Relations.” He is
a weekly columnist for the Pittsburgh Courier and has written about seventy articles in national magazines. In addition to membership
on the U.S. Advisory Committee for the United Nations, Mays is a member of the U.S. National Committee for UNESCO.
He has served on the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches in Holland, England, Canada, and Switzerland. In
addition, he has been board director of the Danforth Foundation and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Currently, he
is president of the United Negro College Fund. Mays was named Alumnus of the Year by the Divinity School of
the University of Chicago in 1949. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and received a Distinguished Service Award
from Delta Sigma Rho for effectiveness in public speech. A Baptist by faith, Mays was a member of the U.S.
delegation to the funeral of Pope John XXIII. He has traveled widely in many countries including Sweden, Denmark, India, and
Japan.
