FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1965 — THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Bad Luck Batmen Have Tough Spring, Drop 5

HINNANT GETS ONE OF ‘CATS’ FEW HITS
Davidson Wins Second Game of W & M Doubleheader
LOSE TO ROLLINS 13-0 and 4-1. (Photo By DuPuy)

Netmen Sweep Florida, Win 6
By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Picking up six victories and only one loss through a spring recess tour into Florida, the Davidson tennis team, called by Coach Harry Fogleman, “potentially the best team since I have been here,” ran its record to a 10-1 slate with Pfeiffer College, their next foe.

Beginning the spring recess with a match at Furman, the Wildcats skunked the Purple Paladins 9-0. Coach Fogleman explained, “Furman is not up to their usual team strength. In other words, they're hurting.” Stetson, another school without any horses (just “Hatters”), fell 9-0.

Hooking up with Rollins College, “one of the biggest tennis powers in the country,” according to Coach Fogleman, Davidson suffered its only defeat to date. Splitting the singles matches 3-3 and the number two and number three doubles matches, the rains came, and the rubber match of the series, the number one doubles, was postponed and finally played the next afternoon after Davidson had beaten Hope College, whose Flying Dutchmen were shot down 8-1. A loss in the doubles match to the Tars cost the ‘Cats a victory.

In their third day at Winter Park on the Rollins courts, the Davidson netters rebounded to defeat Columbia University 6-3 in a hard-fought match. (Photo By Eaton)

BILL KENDRICK STRAINS IN JAVELIN THROW
Davidson Trackmen Defeat Lenoir-Rhyne and High Point

Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Moving on to Lakeland, the netmen employed their manager George Blount in the number six singles match. With Blount dropping the only point, Davidson slaughtered Florida Southern. After the script was repeated against Florida Presbyterian in St. Petersburg, Coach Fogleman recounted, “The manager decided to retire from active duty and return to his managerial duties.”

In their only match since the break, the netmen journeyed to North Carolina State and trounced the Wolfpack 8-1. Taking all six singles matches and two doubles matches, Davidson lost only the number one doubles. Coach Fogleman, optimistic about the season, commented, “The trip to Florida did us a lot of good. We are beginning to show our potential. There is going to be some experimenting with doubles combinations because we have had our problems there.

“Bill Council is playing better and Captain Bill Schutt looked awful good against State. I am real pleased with our sophomores Esmond Phelps, Peter Parrot, and Geordie Mueller.

“We have two strong number seven and number eight men in sophomore Jimmy Davis and junior Jeff Frank. A lot of our success has been possible because these boys have been able to step in when others could not play.”

Trackmen Win One; Prepare For Relays
By LARRY NORFLEET
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s tracksters outclassed Lenoir-Rhyne and High Point College in a three-way meet last Tuesday and have begun preparations for the News Piedmont Relays to be run tomorrow.

Wildcat captain Alan Turner won three events and was anchor man for the winning relay team in the meet which saw the team score 81 points to Lenoir-Rhyne’s 54½ and High Point's 39½. Turner anchored the 440 relay team and won the 100, 220, and 220 low hurdles.

Bill Kendrick threw the javelin 190' 11" to take another first place for the Wildcats. John Barrow and Andy Little took the top two positions in the two-mile run. Denny Phillips and Ronnie Reese ran one-two in the 880.

The Wildcat track team will spend the rest of the week getting in shape for the News Piedmont Relays at Spartanburg. Competing against the Wildcats are Wofford and Presbyterian. Coach Heath Whittle ventured to say that “We should do very well!” Davidson had no trouble in disposing of Presbyterian last year, and since track at Wofford has just started growing, Davidson may be able to sweep the field.

The only dark cloud cast on Davidson's chances is that David Brown, who competes in five events, will not be able to play due to a pulled muscle.

On the 24th of this month, Davidson will be host to the ninth annual Davidson College Relays. Fifteen colleges will participate in the relays which Davidson has won all six years.

We have just received a new shipment of BASS WEEJUNS... Get yours now while the sizes are plentiful.
Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.

By SONNY GRAVES
Davidsonian “Inside-the-Sports” Writer

Inexperience, poor hitting, poor fielding, the weather. Take your pick. Allplayed a part in the baseball team’s unsuccessful spring trip. Playing three well-subsidized powerful baseball teams, Georgia Southern, Wilmington College, and East Carolina, the diamondmen of Tom Stevens dropped 5 out of 5 games (luckily 2 games with Clemson were rained out) during the tour. At Georgia Southern, the ‘Cats, probably the strongest team on the schedule this year, the Peach State club was grooved for Dick Snyder's fastball and was aided throughout by timely Davidson errors. Moving then to Wilmington for two games with the Seahawks of Wilmington College, the ‘Cats, rained out the first day, were forced to spend the night in the Wilmington Hotel, where several “Davidson Gentlemen” were tempted to speak to the bellboys. Playing a doubleheader in the misting rain the next day, the “Gentlemen” politely let the Seahawks slip by in the first game 6-4 and the second 5-1. Ending up the tour at East Carolina, the injured visitors, missing Jim Hyder, entertained the EC fans with their numerous miscues in losing 20-4.

After the spring disasters, the ‘Cats returned to the often friendly confines of Davidson. Here the team showed signs of continuing their faulty playing, falling 12-2 to a surprising William and Mary club. In the second contest, the boys recruited by H. Edmunds rallied behind hurler Howard Bryan, as he tossed perfect ball for five innings. In the sixth inning, William and Mary, getting their first baserunner on an error by the umpire Petius-with-a-paunch, scored their only two runs. Gallantly fighting back in the bottom of the sixth, even overcoming threats of physical violence by the Indians’ huge first baseman, the ‘Cats scored two runs and held on for a 3-2 victory. Yesterday afternoon, the streaking ‘Cats broke their one-game winning streak when they dropped a doubleheader to Furman’s Paladins, 7-6 and 5-2.

What has brought about these factors causing the lack of success? The weather, obviously brought about by dissension between God and someone connected with the team. Inexperience, poor hitting, and poor fielding, obviously brought about by dissension between the players and the baseball. Slow-starting sophomore Skip Waite, with a suddenly potent bat, has taken over the catching duties from junior Jim Terry. Although Waite has little experience, he is fast learning the receiving trade.

Shortstop, a most vital position to any team, has also been plagued with inexperience. Ronnie Stone has had trouble adjusting to this key spot. Jim Hyder has been moved to shortstop and has responded with his usual consistent and dependable performance. When Hyder plays short, Jake Jacobson will handle the second sack. Pitching is a spot at which little shifting can be done, and little relief is in sight. Howard Bryan, captain of the team and ace of the staff, is pitching brilliant ball and should continue to do so the remainder of the year. After Bryan, the tempo falls off with the remainder of the starting chores resting on Dick Snyder, senior lefties Dave Johnson and Ronnie “Turkey” Rudolph, and sophomore Gene Bennett. Snyder, probably the finest outfielder to attend Davidson in many years, has been forced into mound duty by the loss of key players to Hetzel’s “moneymakers.”

The remainder of the team seems fairly well set. At first base, Claude Owen is going against right-handers and Sonny Graves against lefties. In the outfield, strong-hitting senior Lance Walker handles left, Snyder plays center, and sophomore Bryant Hinnant covers right.

'Cats Test Three Foes in Baseball Next Week

Davidson's baseball squad faces a full schedule next week with five games in the six-day period. All of the games will be played at home. The ‘Cats open with Pfeiffer Monday, have a doubleheader with West Virginia Wednesday, and finish out the week with a Friday-Saturday series against East Carolina. Stevens pointed out that these three teams would provide plenty of tough competition for his Wildcats. The ‘Cats have lost early season road games to both Pfeiffer and East Carolina by scores of 2-1 and 20-4. When asked if EC would be able to repeat its previous performance, Stevens tersely replied, “I hope not.” He also pointed out that West Virginia has a “tremendous team” and is favored to win the conference title again this spring. Stevens has not picked his pitchers for any of the games except the West Virginia doubleheader in which Howard Bryan and Dave Johnson will start.

Are you afflicted with the pain and inconvenience associated with pedestrian travel? Get blessed relief with a Value-Rated Used Car at your Oldsmobile Dealer’s!

Best buys of all are under the Value-Rated Used Car sign
Many late-model, like-new trades
Many still under new-car guarantee
All sizes, all makes, all body styles
All at easy-to-take prices
So what are you waiting for? A streetcar? See your local Oldsmobile Quality Dealer now!

USED CARS
1964 Cutlass Convertible