PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Photo by Helm)

ANTHONY ABBOTT PORES OVER PROOF
Book Is “Reaffirmation Of Christian Principles”

ABOUT SHAW
Abbott Publishes Book
By JOE SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Anthony S. Abbott, assistant professor of English at Davidson, has recently published a significant work, Shaw and Christianity. The book is a study of George Bernard Shaw as a serious religious critic, written for the general public. In his book, Dr. Abbott attempts to show Shaw's attitudes toward Christianity in a clearer light. The book is divided into two parts. Part One, “The Prophet,” attempts to show the substance of Shaw's ideas, while Part Two, “The Playwright,” deals with his presentation of these ideas on stage.

According to Dr. Abbott, “The true vocation of a prophet is not, as is popularly supposed, to foretell future events, but to reveal the truth about the present.” Shaw, by his criticism of Christianity and his own theology of Creative Evolution, was trying to point out the defects in modern society. Even his style of writing is “in the tradition of the great prophets.” He shows life as it is, and makes the reader understand what must be done to improve it.

In his comments on the jacket of Dr. Abbott's book, Edmund Fuller says, “Shaw and Christianity is a solid fresh contribution... of special value to those interested in the tension between classical Christian doctrine and modern secular thought. It offers penetrating readings of Shaw's works.” Eric Bentley, a professor at Columbia University, states, “It makes us feel that... (Shaw's) critique of Christianity... is not purely negative but takes the form of a redefinition and in many ways a reaffirmation of Christian principles.”

A graduate of Princeton, Dr. Abbott obtained both his master’s degree and doctorate at Harvard. He came to Davidson in 1964 after three years at Bates University. Shaw and Christianity, which is his first published work, originated as a doctoral dissertation in 1961. After much additional research and revision, the present version was completed late in 1964.

By ALLEN WEBB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Project of the Americas was described and evaluated in Monday's chapel in a discussion of its history during the last year and of its present activities.

Evaluation Of PRAM Given By Members

PRAM members Hobbs Allan and Glenn Withrow and Cesar Andrade, Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, gave an account of the activities of the project, brainchild of Fred Ehlers, last year's Richardson Scholar from Ecuador. Allan recalled the enthusiasm during the development of the organization last year, admitting that the Davidson student knows of his accomplishments best since the project received backing from his pocketbook. But the student still wonders what “significant difference” PRAM has made or will make.

Withrow spoke next on this very point, recalling what he had done in Ecuador this summer and concluding that his experiences had indeed made a difference in regard to better hemispheric understanding. He told of numerous interviews with political and literary figures, prisons and hospitals, of conversations with “intelligent university professors, of visits to schools, ignorant shoe-shine boys, pious nuns and unfortunate prostitutes.” Every effort was made “to understand the life and thought of the Ecuadorian people.” Withrow concluded that the experiences were indeed worth it, believing as he does that that intangible called “understanding” is much the better for it.

Andrade concluded the program with his remarks on PRAM’s genuine accomplishments. He credited this to the organization's blending of the idealism of Latin America and the practicality of North America. They complement each other, he said, in making a “good America,” an objective toward which PRAM is already moving.

Dorm Rush Regulation

The Interfraternity Council set a new dorm rush limit of 10 minutes for the time that a fraternity’s members can remain in a freshman’s room during a single visit. At its meeting Monday night, the council also appointed its members to check the freshman halls before and after dorm rush as a measure against any dirty rushing. Tom Brown suggested that the members check their halls after the rush.

Department Readies Play For Presentation

The cast of Green Grow the Lilacs begins dress rehearsals this Monday night for performances to be given in Hodson Hall. Being produced by the Drama Department, the play is in its fifth week of intensive work.

New Student Committee Organizes For Seminar
By MASON STEPHENSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A committee, inspired by Robert Theobald's visit, has been organized to aid in the preparation of students for the technological world by means of reading and discussion. According to the coordinator George Williams, the local committee, whose members include Chuck Matthews, Murray Smith, Bill Wiseman, Pete Bondanella, Bill Council, Ken Childs, Jay Federman, Jack Martens, and Bill Trotter, is part of an intercollegiate group which will have a beginning membership of approximately 25 schools from throughout the country.

Each of the college committees will be responsible for making contributions to the national organization. Davidson's committee is responsible for the bibliography which is due on Dec. 15. Williams said that the bibliography will concern “the world in which we live right now.” It will be a short bibliography with only about 20 books from several fields: economics, psychology, sociology, politics, education, novels, short stories, and science fiction. “It is not our main point to consider Theobald’s idea of a guaranteed income,” Williams said, “but some of us like it.” The group is mainly concerned with the relationship between the individual and the technological society. More specifically they will concern themselves with the university society and the “outside” world, and with the university and its students.

According to Williams, the committee is composed of people who are interested in making Davidson a somewhat different place, and Theobald's visit provided for their organization. Those who are interested in an eating house, those interested in constructive criticism of the campus and those interested in bringing better films to theCampus are somewhat connected with this committee's work. The practical aspects of this committee for Davidson will be revealed through discussion groups for which the bibliography will form the foundation. The committee is interested in the discussion of problems and educating the student for a modern society. "We are denying that the past was producing the kind of education needed in the future," Williams stated. Williams said that it is not exclusive in membership and that the program has gotten started. The aim is to have each interested organization on campus have at least one program on the problems with which the committee is concerned. "We want to have continuing discussion and activity of all kinds," Williams added. "Discussion usually flares up for a while here and then dies down."

Davidson, N. C.

FABULOUS DINING ~~ International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

DIIA PRO SHOP INC. Enjoy Bowling On Ultra Modern Lanes SNACK BAR Statesville Highway MOORESVILLE, N. C. Dial 664-1653 LANES JUKE BOX

Brown pointed out that in doing so each fraternity would now be able to make three visits for every two under the old system. Brown also mentioned the possibility of having hall counselors patrol the halls during the rush period to make sure that no fraternity members have stayed longer than the set time limit. The group, however, favored Stan Brown's idea of the use of IFC representatives, rather than hall counselors, in patrolling the halls immediately before and after rush. Al Carson reminded the council of a gentleman's agreement that no notes would be left in rooms during rush this year. To avoid any conflict, the council made this agreement a regulation.

Anthony Abbott's book Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, Nov. 11-13, with staging almost completed. Rupert Barber, drama director, stated that there has been a tremendous amount of cooperation among the cast and that he is very much pleased with all the help which has been offered. Green Grow The Lilacs provided the inspiration for the Broadway musical, Oklahoma!, and the play has a number of songs and dances included in it. Bill Aitken, a senior from Kingsport, Tenn., who has been coaching the singing, is involved with familiarizing the actors with musical parts with their songs and writing some music for the production. Mrs. T. A. Williams is choreographing the play; her job has required knowledge of folk and square dancing and the music to be used. As Barber indicated, "Green Grow the Lilacs is the story of a kind of people and their simple way of life—a life which has disappeared, never to return again." He is enthusiastic about the possibilities presented by the roles of Curly, Laurey, Aunt Eller, Jeeter, and Ado Annie.

Who'd rent a car from National just to get S&H Green Stamps is henpecked! So rent them from National because you like the colors of their cars. For a new '66 Ford or other fine car...and S&H Green Stamps at no extra cost, call NATIONAL CAR RENTAL at Douglas Airport Charlotte, N. C. Phone 392-6376

IFC Sets

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1965

(Photo by Lesesne) ANDRADE PRESENTS VIEWS IN MONDAY CHAPEL Seated Are Hobs Allan, Left, And Glenn Withrow

PRAM Members Seek Assistance In Louisiana

Four members of the Project of the Americas left Charlotte yesterday for New Orleans, La. to accomplish a four-point program for greater understanding in the Americas. Erskine Sproul, Marc Simpson, and Cesar Andrade from Davidson, and Betty Ann Craig, secretary of the student body at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte will arrive in New Orleans for the Conference of Inter-American Exchange, sponsored by the National Association of Foreign Student Affairs. The first point of the program is a 30-minute presentation of PRAM to the conference. Simpson said that representatives from the major foundations will be present, as well as professors and other interested people from all over the nation. The second part of the program will be carried out by Simpson. He plans to visit Louisiana State University at Baton Rouge, LSU at New Orleans, Loyola, and Tulane to meet with faculty and students who are interested in forming new chapters of PRAM. He also has appointments with the presidents of several of these institutions. The third point will be contacting large corporations in that area, such as Shell Oil Company, and trying to interest them in giving financial assistance to PRAM. The fourth and final point will be to give a radio program on WWL, New Orleans. Andrade will speak for 30 minutes in Spanish, and 30 minutes in English will be given by another member of the program.

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel 217 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. 378-9723

CHICKEN Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches Daily Food Specials TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING Small and Large PIZZAS 50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS Eat Under Tropical Palms TASTEE FREEZ MOORESVILLE