VON UNWERTH QUITS IFC PRESIDENCY See Page Three VOL. LIV. The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1965 HETZELMEN MEET ACC STARS TUESDAY See Page Five NUMBER TWENTY-ONE Student Council To Conduct Referendum On Fraternity Reports By FRANK FLEMING Davidsonian Staff Writer Students will express their opinions Thursday on the fraternity question in a referendum unanimously approved by the Student Council Monday night. Each ballot will contain 13 questions. Each of the nine immediate proposals of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee report will be put to a yes-no vote. Then the committee report as well as the two minority statements will be put to an approve-disapprove vote. Students will be asked to indicate whether or not they are members of a fraternity. Following Charlie Marshall's motion that “the report be submitted to the Student Body for an opinion poll on the three different sections of the report,” Fred Sackett amended it to read: “In the student referendum each of the nine ‘Immediate Recommendations’ will be presented for a yes-or-no answer. “There will also be a section in which each student may express his general favor or disfavor on the majority report, the minority report of Dr. John Kelton, Art Ross, Bill Council, and Chaplain Will Terry, and the minority report of Ed Haselden.” STUDENTS’ OPINION Sackett explained, “Such a detailed referendum will give a reflection on the student stand on the most important issues. I think that the faculty will probably vote on each recommendation separately; thus, a breakdown on campus opinion could be more easily interpreted than a general referendum.” After the council had passed Sackett's amendment by a vote of 14-0, David Powell introduced another amendment: “Let each student also record whether he is an Independent or fraternity man.” In wanting to clarify the referendum even further, Powell said, “An indication of a student’s affiliation would show precisely where strong fraternity sentiment lies. People naturally would expect fraternities to oppose this report, but what about Independents?” With Bill Council being the only absentee, the council passed Powell's amendment 12-2. It then unanimously approved Marshall's amended motion and turned to the problem of setting a date. WALKER MOVES David Walker moved to hold the vote on Monday. Supporting this date, John Barrow pointed out, “Since Monday is a regular election day anyway, students would have all day to complete the opinion poll.” On the other hand, Sackett mentioned, “Since there will be two discussion forums on Tuesday and Wednesday, we should delay the referendum until Thursday so as to give the Student Body more time to consider their opinions.” After Walker's motion was defeated 6-7, Powell moved to accept the suggested Thursday date instead. By 9-3 the council adopted this later time. Beginning discussion on the report itself, President Will Jackson mentioned that some of its recommendations would “require the financial responsibility of the college.” Since the college will be operating on a “very tight budget next year,” this factor may influence future action. ATTACKS SCOPE Gresham called the report “much more than we asked for” and opposed the report's statement that the fraternity system is “contrary to any Christian or democratic social ethic.” “What are we going to do with it,” asked Arnie Snider. Jackson answered, “Although next year's council will decide on some issues, it is up to us to respond soon—either in approval or disapproval.” The most definite stand taken at the Monday meeting was Walker's motion “to endorse the Haselden report.” However, Sackett’s counter motion to table Walker's proposal was upheld by 8-6. Such an endorsement, however, could be reconsidered next Monday. Walker commented, “The council is giving up its leadership in this action.” Opposing Walker's proposal, Frist said, “First let's see the students’ opinion; then we'll act.” Finally, Sackett suggested, “The council would express its own feelings in next Tuesday's assembly — before the Student Body votes.” No decision was made for any definite action. OTHER ACTION In other business, Jackson proposed an amendment to change Section 2, paragraph “j” of the Student Council By-Laws to read as follows: “In the election for president of the Student Body, speeches shall be made in Assembly by those candidates who have filed for the position. “Should there be more than five candidates, a runoff shall be held to limit the number of speeches to five.” Sackett, chairman of the elections committee, supported this change by pointing out, “Five speeches each six minutes long would fill a chapel period.” Despite Walker's argument that an increased number of speeches would be “inversely proportionate” to student interest, the council passed the amendment 13-2. The last business was Tom Irons’ report on the mercury vapor lamp controversy. Irons said, “President Martin has canceled the order for the lights. General student opinion favors extension of the present system. Apparently Dr. Martin is willing to go along with whatever the students want to do.” Council Takes Presidency 13 Votes From Meschan By Gresham, Matthews Take VP Positions Bill Council defeated David Meschan by a 13-vote margin (327-314) in Wednesday’s election to capture the Student Body presidency. Council, a member of Phi Delta Theta, is an English major and is presently second vice-president of the student body. From Washington, D. C., he was a member of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, and serves on the Student-Faculty Conference Committee and the tennis team. He is a former Dana Scholar. Council's election platform centered around the following proposals: I. The increased availability and expansion of present recreational facilities to serve and meet the needs of the student body. II. The establishment of a system of course evaluation by students to aid faculty members in assessing their success in the classroom. III. A continued evaluation of Davidson’s social system, emphasizing that social inequities are existent and favoring the adoption of the minority report of Ross, Kelton, Terry, and Council as a first step in the dissolving of these inequities. Meschan's campaign bid advocated: I. The preservation of the present and strong fraternity system, with the strengthening of collateral facilities to alleviate social inequities. II. The replacement of required chapel and Vespers attendance by required attendance at a widened selection of activities, including selected concerts and lectures in various fields of student interest. III. The establishment of a social council, serving and supported by the entire student body, to replace the social re-Responsibilities of the IFC. The presidential balloting, totaling 64 per cent of the student body, was the heaviest in recent years. The 1962 presidential race between Danny Carroll and John Killian is the closest contender, having polled 627 votes for a 62.7 percentage. In other balloting, John Gresham and Chuck Matthews polled 374 and 362 votes respectively to be elected first and second vice-president of the Student Body. Ben Cannon was elected secretary-treasurer by a 61 vote margin over contender Tom Irons to complete the slate of Student Body officers. Honor Court runoffs selected Joe Davis and Arnie Goodstein as representatives of the Class of '66, Barry St. Clair and Alva Whitehead from the Class of '67. The voting also placed Tonnie Hunt with 138 votes and Bob Finlayson with 119 votes on the Honor Court. They defeated Tommy Caldwell, who received 113 votes in a runoff on Thursday for the representatives from the Class of 1968.

YMCA OFFICERS
Murray Smith narrowly defeated Neil McBryde in today’s run-off election for YMCA President by a vote of 274 to 263. In Thursday's voting, Smith had received 246 votes to McBryde's 174 and Buck Lawrimore’s 172 votes. In the election for Y Vice President, Joe Jelks defeated Georges Nzongola 319 to 197. The voting Thursday saw Jelks with 258 votes and Nzongola with 163 votes defeat Chris Hawk, who collected 137 votes. Bobby Myers, with 277 votes, was elected Y Secretary over Ronnie Hunt, who had 214 votes. Myers had 238 votes to Hunt's 201 and Woody Faulk’s 83 votes in the voting Thursday. In another Thursday runoff election, Tom Scott was elected president of the College Union, defeating John Callendar 332 to 255. Bobby Lane, with 361 votes, defeated Buddy Newson with 109 votes and Rick Lonon, with 103 votes for treasurer of the YMCA.

CHEERLEADERS
In the elections for Cheerleaders, rising junior Buddy Durham defeated classmate Bob Cameron 302 to 255 while rising sophomore, Gresh Bayne, defeated M. L. Cannon 305 to 242. Rising seniors Champ Covington and Tommy Hunter were elected earlier in the week. Finally, Dave Powell with 75 votes was elected Freshman Advisor over Andy Little, who received 40 votes, and Dan Campbell, who received 3 votes.

(Staff Photo by Thel)

CHUMBLEY, HALLMARK, CALLENDAR, REESE Win Graduate Awards

BILL COUNCIL
JOHN GRESHAM
CHUCK MATTHEWS
SNIDER, VICK ALSO WIN

JOHN TODD
Todd To Serve As New Editor

Capturing 62 per cent of votes cast, John Todd was elected 1965-66 DAVIDSONIAN editor-in-chief in balloting Tuesday. He polled 349 votes to defeat Michael Harrington who received 214. Advocating delivery of THE DAVIDSONIAN early on Friday nights, a ‘feature page’ to alternate with the second sports page, and a new policy concerning use of the darkroom by various publications, Todd plans a workshop for DAVIDSONIAN reporters. Todd hopes to have a complete staff selected by next Friday; he will assume the editorship after the spring recess. Elected editor of the Scripts ‘n Pranks in the same balloting was Charlie Vick, who primarily proposed that the magazine should encompass literature of a serious nature, such as short stories and poetry, as well as humor. He defeated John Compton, 312 votes to 296. Arnie Snider was elected editor of the Quips and Cranks over the rising Senior Class. Woody Coleman, a third candidate, withdrew from the race. Coleman explained, ‘Although Publications Board’s nomination in complete earnestness, after carefully examining the many aspects and demands of the job, and weighing these in relation to my limited experience and my motives for accepting, I decided it would be cheating anyone who voted for me to remain in the race.”

Class Elections Remain For Balloting Next Week

With the conclusion of the YMCA elections today, the only remaining elections to be held are the contests for Student Council and class officer positions.

Council Requests Student Reflection
By BILL COUNCIL
President-elect of the Student Body

The Student Council will conduct a poll after chapel next Thursday to determine student reaction to the Fraternity Evaluation Committee reports. The poll will be in two parts. The first will provide the opportunity to react to each of the nine immediate recommendations of the committee report. The second part will permit comment on the complete format of each of the three reports from the committee members. To ensure reasonable familiarity with the points under consideration, review of the three reports before Thursday will be helpful. The proposals in question deserve thoughtful consideration by every student.

Four Davidson seniors, Bob Chumbley, Rufus Hallmark, Alan Callendar, and Ronnie Reese, have been awarded fellowships by the Wilson, Danforth, and Rockefeller Foundations for graduate studies during the academic year 1965-1966. All four are members of Phi Beta Kappa. Chumbley and Hallmark received Woodrow Wilson fellowships, while Callendar and Reese were awarded Danforth and Rockefeller fellowships respectively. Chumbley, from Covington, Va., is majoring in French and spent his junior year at the University of Montpelier in France. He belongs to the Eumenean Literary Society and Le Cercle Francais. A Dana Scholar, Chumbley has participated in the Wind Ensemble and Vagabonds. Hallmark, from Fort Bragg, is a music major and a McConnell Scholar. He is also a DAVIDSONIAN cartoonist and a member of Lingle Manor, ODK, Le Cercle Francais, and president of the Male Chorus. He served as secretary of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee. Out of more than 11,000 faculty-nominated college seniors in the United States and Canada who competed for the Wilson fellowships, 1,395 were chosen. This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Foundation, which is the largest private source of support for advanced work in the liberal arts. Those awarded fellowships will receive tuition and fixed fees at the graduate school of their choice, plus $1600 for living expenses. Callendar, a physics major and president of Phi Eta Sigma, honorary freshman scholastic fraternity, and a member of the Radio Club, is a Dana Scholar from Jacksonville, Fla. Callendar, now a Danforth Fellow, will enter Princeton University for graduate study in physics this year. Approximately 1,800 college seniors from colleges and universities throughout the United States competed for the 127 Danforth Fellowships awarded this year. The Woodrow Wilson and Danforth Fellowships are designed to encourage outstanding college graduates who have selected college teaching as a career and to help meet the critical national need for competent and dedicated college instructors. Reese, a McConnell and a Staley Scholar, is a member of Phi Eta Sigma and of the Honor Court. A psychology major from Orlando, Fla., Reese is captain of the cross-country team and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. The Rockefeller Foundation awards about 60 fellowships each year to men and women who are not planning on seminary or graduate theological work, but who would be willing to consider the ordained parish ministry.

Under the system at Davidson, the class presidency goes to the person receiving the highest number of votes in his class's student council voting. The senior class will also elect a vice-president and a secretary-treasurer. Therefore, next year’s sophomore class will elect two members to the council; the junior class, three members; and the senior class, five members. The following 13 seniors have filed applications with Fred Sackett, chairman of the elections board: Rufus Adair, Dan Boone, Bob Bryan, Dan Campbell, Billy Clark, Lee Fanning, Robert Lake, Derek Lindsley, Andy Little, Randy McKnight, David Meschan, Tom Scott, and Arnie Snider. Candidates from the Class of 1967 are Huck Berry, Tom Brown, Edward Dwelle, John Fagg, Mac Fiddner, Buddy Finch, Lou Hill, Bryant Hinnant, Paul Marion, Robert Murphy, David Perrin, Joe Rice, William Rikard, John Selph, Jim Shackleford, Brooks Sheldon, Jesse Sims, and Jim Timmons. Turning out en force, the 30 freshman class candidates are John Allen, Frank Angus, Gayle Batson, Barry Bishop, Martin Brackett, Mark Brown, Steve Brown, Lowell Bryan, Tommy Caldwell, Andrew Clay, Tommy Cox, Tom Earnhardt, Bill (Clay) Ford, Sam Hines, and Bob Irons. Also, Richard Lyon, Harry McMullan, David Mensel, Tupper Morehead, Tom Peddicord, Gary Peklo, Bo Perry, Mike Powell, Julian Prosser, Kirk Reed, Bill Seigler, Frank Shepard, Lyle Smith, John Thomas, and W. L. Watson.

Seniors Receive Fellowships

The Woodrow Wilson and Danforth Fellowships are designed to encourage outstanding college graduates who have selected college teaching as a career and to help meet the critical national need for competent and dedicated college instructors. Reese, a McConnell and a Staley Scholar, is a member of Phi Eta Sigma and of the Honor Court. A psychology major from Orlando, Fla., Reese is captain of the cross-country team and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. The Rockefeller Foundation awards about 60 fellowships each year to men and women who are not planning on seminary or graduate theological work, but who would be willing to consider the ordained parish ministry.