Applicants See System As Big ‘Drawing Card’
By JAMIE BRYANT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Commenting on the effect of incoming freshmen by the honor system and its responsibilities, Davidson’s Director of Admissions, H. Edmunds
White, stated that the system represents for the most part a radical difference from the freshmen’s experiences in either high
school or prep school. Their awareness of the system and the conduct that is expected of them begins with the
first interview at Davidson.

White feels that the system is strong and effective, and it is one of the strongest drawing cards that the
school has to offer. The applicants’ reaction to the honor system is one of respect, and this carries over to
their entrance as students. He feels that it is important that each new student recognize the responsibility of honor that
is placed in him because this ensures the continuation of an important tradition. White also feels that the freshmen must
be ready to make an important adjustment in this new atmosphere of added responsibility and personal restraint. In attracting prospective
freshmen, the honor system remains a strong selling point that makes Davidson unique.

White emphasized that there must be adequate preparation for educating the new students in the responsibility of the system with
emphasis on the penalty involved in a breach of the honor system. The burden rests on the individual, and he
must take care that he conducts himself in such a manner that he does not compromise his standing in this
community of honor. The fact that there are few other schools which can boast of such an effective and respected
honor system makes it, in White's opinion, imperative that we maintain ours. This adds to the general prestige and reputation
that draws outstanding students to Davidson.

When the prospective freshman receives his letter of acceptance, he also receives two copies of a pledge or statement which
spells out the spirit of the honor system. He is expected to sign this pledge and return it with his
acceptance as a member of the entering freshman class. This has no special legal significance, but is, in effect, a
reaffirmation of the principles of the honor system and the student’s intent to abide by them. The pledge is drawn
up by the Office of the Dean of Students. This pledge ties in with his responsibility concerning student conduct, and
the school's attempt to educate the incoming freshmen in the system. Thus, the college begins early the attempt to impress
the students with the importance of the system and their responsibility.

For Reform Received At Open End
By WALT DRAKE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The procedures, punishments, and publicity of Davidson’s honor system came under close scrutiny at Wednesday night’s Open End. Several changes
in these areas were suggested by some of the sixty students who attended the program held in the union. Honor
Court chairman Jim Stokes and senior honor court members Joe Davis and John Burks answered questions presented to them by
the students and discussed possible changes in the honor system.

Jack Martens stated early in the discussion that he objected to the court having to dismiss from the college all
students found guilty of an honor offense. He suggested that an analyst be hired by the college to work with
students convicted of breaking the honor system. Bill Trotter questioned whether the whole honor system was designed to ‘dispense justice
or reap vengeance.’ He said that the court should take into account more the life and future of a person
convicted of breaking an honor regulation. Ken Childs suggested that ‘a system of justice should be based on more pragmatic
means.’ He said that he favored a system whereby the court would look at a specific incident and then decide
on the penalty. He further suggested that some cases be referred to the student counseling service to render help to
the person who commits an honor offense. Childs later added that ‘We’ve got to abandon the concept of punishment for
someone doing something wrong, unless it will help him.’

It was suggested by Wayne Mixon that a psychiatrist be brought to Davidson to talk with members of the honor
court and tell them what the role of a psychiatrist could be in such a system. Martens added that such
systems were now being used at MIT and Harvard. Stokes commented that he hoped an open end or chapel program
could be arranged to enable a psychiatrist to speak to the court and the student body about the role of
a psychiatrist in an honor system.

Ed Armfield, junior member of the honor court, mentioned the convenience offered by the honor system in allowing students to
leave books on campus without fear of them being stolen and the convenience for professors of not having to stay
in a room throughout an examination. Pete Bondanella stated that he did not believe his convenience was worth the damage
done to one man if a mistake was made in conviction. He defined the main problem as one of the
severity of the punishment.

Upon requests from the audience, Stokes produced figures which showed that since 1959, twenty-four persons have been tried by the
honor court for honor offenses. Twelve of these persons have been acquitted and twelve have been dismissed from the college.
Bondanella pointed out what he called ‘a built-in prejudice in the honor court’ in that the same persons that investigate
cases also try the cases. Stokes agreed that this area needed a change and he mentioned several of the suggested
changes that are presently being considered by members of the honor court.

The first one of these suggestions would be the election of an additional senior to the court. Then, for each
month, two seniors would serve as investigators of any case coming before the court. They would present their findings if
the case came to trial. However, they would have no vote in the verdict of the court. Stokes also mentioned
the possibility of having one member of the student council serve as defense counselor for all persons called before the
court. This counselor would advise the defendant of his rights and help him build and present his case to the
court.

Condemning the severity of the punishment of dismissal and pointing out the threat of the draft immediately facing a student
dismissed from school, Jim Walkup suggested that convicted students be punished by fines or being ‘worked to death for a
while, perhaps as janitors.’ Murray Smith stated that most of the student body is ignorant of how the honor court
works and should be taught the court procedure. Stokes said that mimeographed booklets will be distributed to the student body
to explain the philosophy behind the honor court and the procedure of the trials to clear up this lack of
knowledge on the students’ part. The possibility of a mock trial being conducted before the student body was also suggested
by Stokes.

Another question arising was whether results of the trials should be made available to students. Stokes stated that the preference
of the members of the court is that they publish the results, facts, and reasons behind their decision in a
trial. Jay Federman suggested that a short summation of each case be published in THE DAVIDSONIAN, with further information made
available upon request. However, several students felt that...This would distort the case, and that either all of the facts and
circumstances should be presented or none at all. Joe Davis said that he felt that publication of a case should
be decided upon by the person involved in the offense.

SENIOR COURT MEMBER JOHN BURKS PREPARES TO ASK QUESTION

Witness Is Participant In Mock Trial
Honor Court Studies Changes In Procedure And Punishment
By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Student feeling about the Honor Court usually runs somewhere between the complacent and the discomfited. A recent case roused certain
voices among the students, however, and the dust has not yet settled around the charges of unfair tactics, callous punishment,
and clandestine procedures that the case stirred up. The campus is in the process of re-evaluating the honor system and
considering alternatives to present policies. Among those most involved in reassessing productively the role of the Honor Court are the
members of the court themselves.

Stokes said, "We have enough work in evaluation, re-evaluation and maintenance of the honor system alone." He felt that by
dividing the functions, the Honor Court could deal with honor offenses in a more thorough, less distracted way. Stokes thought
that the place of the Honor Court in the organization of the college was still important. "There are bound to
be violations of any system you set up," he said, and the court is the body authorized by the student
body to weigh evidence of honor violations and to determine guilt. The idea of the court stands or falls with
that of the honor system, and Stokes felt that the honor system would remain unless serious opposition to it evolves.
"The theory is that a community of students has decided that it wants to have an honor system that will
maintain the traits of honesty and integrity among its members. If this spirit isn’t a part of each student, the
system is pretty much valueless. There is a personal honor in being responsible to yourself; then there is a responsibility
to help others conduct themselves responsibly, too." Each student helps himself by living up to the code and helps others
live up to the code by expecting honorable action from them. The real duty of the court in such a
system is not only to evaluate violations, but also to be sure that the ideal of the honor code is
present before the students and to conduct an ongoing appraisal of the system’s operations.

As part of its program of education and information, the court held an Open End discussion of objections to the
honor court on Wednesday night, asking for suggestions (see adjacent story). It is also mimeographing copies of the booklet, "The
Honor System at Davidson" to be distributed to each student by the beginning of next week. These booklets were prepared
this past summer, but finances permitted only 500 to be printed. Half of these were given to the freshmen, and
many others were given to the faculty. "If we can get people to continue to be as interested in the
system as they are now, it would be more valuable to the whole student body." The court hopes also to
give a full explanation of trial procedures in a DAVIDSONIAN article in the near future. Many of these may soon
be altered, however, in a sizeable overhaul that seeks to "make the possibility of injustice (through bias) less likely," according
to Stokes.

As things now stand, an investigation takes place after the court is apprised of a possible violation. The investigation is
conducted by members of the court, who will suggest a trial if in their view the evidence warrants one. These
same members then sit in trial and cast their vote along with the other members. The chances for objectivity during
the trial are less for these members, since they are likely to have already formed some opinion about the evidence
they are hearing. For this reason, the court hopes to elect another representative of the senior class. It would then
rotate the senior members each month, so that any two of them would have the sole duty for a particular
month of investigating all charges brought before the court. These two would also present the evidence to the court if
a trial ensued. They would not have a vote, nor would they act as prosecutors. They would attempt to present
fairly all the facts they found pertinent to the case.

At present, once the necessity of a trial is decided, the student is charged 24 hours beforehand by the chairman.
The student picks an advisor from the court, who tells him his rights, advises him of his plea and how
to use witnesses, and helps him make out his case. This advisor has no vote in the proceedings. The court
would like to make this capacity an elective office. A representative would be elected from the student body to act
as permanent advisor for the year to all students brought before the court. He would help them build their case,
would see that their rights are protected, and that all facts in their favor are brought forth. Stokes emphasized that
these two changes were not intended to be steps toward a more legalistic system—the roles of prosecutor and defense attorney
were not being set up. Rather, these changes were being considered in the hope that greater impartiality and greater concern
for the student could be injected into the honor court proceedings.

Chairman Jim Stokes reviewed for THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday some of the changes the court hopes soon to bring about, many
of them to take effect by next semester and the others by the fall semester of next year. He emphasized
that these were the best revisions the court had found, but that suggestions from students would be seriously entertained. The
most radical change would be to split the function of the present court into two separate functions, delegating one to
a separate committee to be formed under the Student Council and reserving the other for Honor Court jurisdiction. Those cases
to be reviewed by the newly-created committee would involve infractions of the Student Body Regulations (no drinking, no gambling, etc.).
These now fall within the purview of the Honor Court. With these cases deleted, the Honor Court would be able
to concentrate on violations of the Honor Code alone—cheating, lying under oath—which now carry the penalty of suspension from school.
This change developed out of the court’s summer study of material that has been collected since the time that Howard
Arbuckle (class of '64) chaired the body. The University of Virginia has a system like the one proposed, and the
Davidson self-study committee recommends this in its report. "Students hold the values of the honor system in higher esteem than
student regulations," Stokes said. "We have enough work in evaluation, re-evaluation and maintenance of the honor system alone." He felt
that by dividing the functions, the Honor Court could deal with honor offenses in a more thorough, less distracted way.
