Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Concerning Myopia

After the events of last week, the thoughts and reactions that have filled this week have seemed relatively placid. Nevertheless, without exhausting the points at hand, we feel it is necessary to comment on the fraternity situation as it stands today.

Next week the college trustees will be faced with the decision of the faculty on the social life at Davidson. Actually, the only measure that will require their attention and approval is the recommendation calling for the establishment of two new eating club structures on Patterson Court. We seriously doubt if the trustees will be willing to take the $100,000 risk on the new structures. Committing the college to such a set-up is definitely overlooking the basic issues and problems involved in the stagnant situation here now.

Whether purposely or not, the faculty has not touched upon the underlying cause of Davidson's unequal social situation, which arises from the incredible exclusiveness of the fraternities on campus. Yet no one seems to want to answer to the glaring facts of rejection and anti-intellectualism to which the college is needlessly clinging under the status quo.

We do not feel that the cure to all ills can come overnight. But why institute a myopic measure that may satisfy only a few self-seeking non-fraternity men? The trustees have received reports of committees that have studied the problem during the past four months. No one denies that change must come. We hope that the board members will carefully consider the nine immediate recommendations of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, two of which are included in the faculty recommendations.

Without reservation, we feel that the nine measures, recommended by 11 of the 12 members of the evaluation committee, propose the most practical beginning toward a complete social life for four out of every four Davidson students. Our hopes and fears are for the years ahead when patchwork will have worn thin.

Religious Tolerance

The present Vespers system requiring all students to attend Protestant worship services is guilty at least of gross discrimination against the Christian Roman Catholics and the non-Christian Jews at Davidson.

The purpose of the Vespers system, as we see it, is to produce by regular attendance at religious ceremonies a deeper sense of spiritual awareness and to instill a sense of personal participation in one’s own faith. Yet this purpose and this privilege are denied to all non-Protestants on the Davidson campus. These men who have no particular religious ties with Protestant Christianity are forced to attend and participate in Protestant services as a requirement of Davidson College.

But more important is this: requiring non-Protestants to attend Protestant worship services is morally indefensible — it is religious intolerance and coercion of the worst kind, an affront to the freedom of conscience — and it is both morally wrong and an act of intellectual bigotry to tell these men “If you didn’t like our system, you didn’t have to come here.”

We note with approval that the Student Council is sponsoring a resolution to the faculty committee on religious life designed to eliminate these inequities. We both endorse and actively support such efforts to remove any mark of religious intolerance from the policies of Davidson College.

Probing The Klan

The House of Representatives in Washington has voted $50,000 for an investigation of the Ku Klux Klan by the House Committee on Un-American Activities. The move was in accord with President Johnson’s directive that legislation be developed to “bring the activities of the Klan under effective control of the law.”

Most Americans, including Southerners, deplore Klan violence. Very few agree with the philosophy which induces these men to resort to violent tactics. Most would agree on the need for a thorough inquiry by a responsible authority. Some have questioned whether the Committee on Un-American Activities is sufficiently responsible. The American Civil Liberties Union maintains that the Department of Justice is the proper agency to look into possible violations of criminal law. Others wanted a probe by the House Judiciary Committee.

The Commission on Religion and Race of the National Council of Churches expressed concern because it doubts whether the committee has the will to undertake an effective investigation of the Klan. Others suspect that the committee is simply seeking a way to justify an intensified probe of alleged Communist influence within the civil-rights movement.

The administration, however, is said to look with favor upon an investigation conducted by the Committee on Un-American Activities both because its chairman is a Southerner and because its reputation would protect it against charges of leftist influence. In view of the fact that the committee will, in any event, investigate, we hope it will prove its critics wrong by bending over backward to carry out a fair, competent, and exacting investigation; because it is in the public interest to have the true facts regarding the Klan.

—The Christian Science Monitor

By The Way

Noteworthy on the Williams College campus last week was the formation of the Student Committee for Restricted Escalated Warfare (SCREW). Talk about student apathy. SCREW obviously was out to screw SDS, which organized the recent picketing in Washington to protest U.S. involvement in South Vietnam.

Commended by The Williams Record “for creativity and lack of pretension in choosing a name,” the new organization was calling for continued U.S. action in the beleaguered nation. The Record continued, “The political dialogue at Williams has long been one-sided. Perhaps SCREW can provide a breath of fresh air to conservatives and liberals alike.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Frist Blasts Demonstration Against Jones

Dear Editor,

Wednesday night a week ago, several hundred members of the student body demonstrated against a member of the Davidson College administration because of the stands he has taken on the fraternity situation. One of the stated demands of the leaders of the demonstration called for Mr. Jones’ resignation from his position as Fraternity Liaison Officer.

While I am in complete accord with the students’ right to express their feelings in such a manner, (i.e., demonstration), and in fact am grateful to see some student interest expressed, still I believe very strongly that there has been a misplacement of blame.

Mr. Jones has presented and defended what he considered to be the best solution to the problem of social life at Davidson College. His proposals, along with many others, were taken before the faculty April 13 for presentation to that body. After much discussion, the faculty presented to Dr. Martin several proposals it, as a majority, felt to be in the best interests of the entire student body. These proposals were read by Dr. Martin in chapel a week ago.

If we are, then, to ask for the resignation of anyone because of the proposals presented, why not scalp every member of the faculty who supported these proposals? — Not only Mr. Jones. In fact, most of Mr. Jones’ proposals were defeated. “But,” one says, “Mr. Jones’ job is to represent fraternity and student opinion.” There was a referendum which represented this quite adequately, I feel. The faculty had knowledge of this vote and of other student suggestions when they balloted.

If the majority of the faculty is so weak-willed that it can be persuaded to vote against its judgment, (as some would have me to believe), on a matter of such importance, by a one-year man, then I think perhaps the majority of the faculty should resign and let us keep Mr. Jones. But the faculty voted for what it considered to be the best interests of the entire student body, not because of Mr. Jones, but because the faculty had seen all sides of the issue presented and thought that these proposals, read by Dr. Martin, were the best solutions to the problem.

If we continue to ask for the resignations of persons on the faculty who have views contrary to our own, we will only create stagnation of thought. We tell the trustees to get rid of the

Whose far?..........2000ee eee eee DY Hill

Poole Urges Cooperation With Faculty Frat Reforms

Dear Editor:

In reflecting over the campus events of the past couple weeks and months I have come to recognize a bit of irony, if not paradox, in the thoughts and actions of many Davidson students. The newsworthy matters which affect people other than the students themselves tend to receive student criticisms. Many of us will recall the degree of sympathy with (and even a good deal of student participation in) the Civil Rights actions of last year. Recently we have seen, and continue to see, student criticisms of the North Carolina Speaker Ban Law and our own Davidson College Faculty Oath. But each of these is touching some element of society apart from the Davidson student.

We hear the students cry out for freedom of speech and academic freedom on the campus. We hear cries for a better faculty unhampered by theWalls of white American Christianity. But what happens when the faculty tries to remove the restraints which tend to hamper the full development of the students in turn? Well, I think we all know what happens. During these last few weeks, we have seen the students rebel against our faculty's initiative (which the students couldn't muster) to attempt some changes toward a liberalization of the student portion of Davidson College. If we as students have the gall to speak out for freedom of speech on other campuses and for a more academically free faculty here at Davidson, how can we then think the faculty is trying to "ruin" us by liberalizing the student side of the college? I think we are being very childish about this whole matter of social-academic change. This may be partially understandable when a professor takes it upon himself to recommend that the students unite in an effort to frustrate the faculty action. But I think that basically we all need to re-examine our own motives in this matter. Are we concerned about the fraternity question only in terms of number one (me), or does our concern extend outward to enclose the entire college community? If it is the former, let's cease our hypocrisy of speaking out against the evils of every system but our own. If the latter be the case, let's lend some support to our able faculty and try to effect some real improvements.

Sincerely,
David E. Poole
Davidson College

Smith

Dear Editor:

The student response which preceded Chaplain Will Terry's exit from the stage in chapel Thursday a week ago was, if not desirable, at least significant and appropriate to the occasion. Mr. Terry tried to interpret the preceding night's riot-demonstration through the image of Holy Week and the crucifixion. The hostility of the student body to this interpretation forced him to omit the rest of his talk. This reaction would certainly not have been hard to predict. A good while ago, the chaplain preached a sermon to the effect that anyone who loves his neighbor will be forced to suffer for this love. Perhaps unintentionally, but most convincingly, the chaplain’s point has been demonstrated. Many of us doubt the relevance of much of Christian doctrine to life as it is lived. But not many would deny that, at least on this occasion, Christianity has faced the facts of life. When we go to apologize to Will for our conduct, he will probably be too “humble” to thank us for proving him right.

Murray Smith
Davidson College

Bell

Dear Editor:

The mantle of apathy that the Davidson student body has worn so long was cast off last week, and we were reprimanded for it. The apathy we have shown is due in part, I believe, to the futility of objection. From the first of this contretemps, there has been little we could do. Some of us tried legislative, legal means of expressing ourselves, but most sat back to see the virtual destruction of a major part of Davidson's social world. We sat back—partially not knowing what to do, partially not believing our opinions would be considered. We as individuals felt impotent; we as a group (more cowardly of us, I admit) finally aired our views, and with enough force to have them heard. We were heard, but the answer was disappointing. Sign petitions, we were told: we have. Write letters: and some of us have. But don’t demonstrate, we were told: that means will profit you nothing. Our earlier means failed us; so, apparently, have our last.

D. Elliott Bell
Davidson College

Dear Editor:

I'm tired of telling people I went to Davidson and then immediately have them suspect me of being a fact-crammed, unthinking conformist, who will prattle a liberal line, but doesn't give a damn about anybody. They believe this because in the Davidson socio-religious structure we had one of the most sophisticated instruments of unfreedom in this Brave New World. When I attended Davidson, I could discover the possibility of freedom only by kicking the system. Otherwise, there was no escaping conformity to the "gentleman" image. The "gentleman" at that time was a kid in rebellion against a weird assortment of mores he called Christianity. I can't give you an answer, because a college can change in seven years, but I want to raise a question—Can Davidson College offer freedom within its structure until compulsory worship services and the fraternity system have been either abandoned or radically restructured?

Zan White
Columbia Theological Seminary

Mrs. Hetzel

Dear Editor:

For one mother of a Davidson senior, the most consistently enjoyable feature of the college has been THE DAVIDSONIAN. The increasing concern each year with ideas being disseminated in the broader community by others of their outstanding generation, and the courage to state oft-time brutally true and unpopular facts, has filled me with admiration for members of the Staff. That the pages of your paper have been so much occupied with anguished self-examination by brothers in the fraternities is also an indication that the social reform of the 60's has penetrated the cloistered campus of Davidson. As a visitor on the campus recently, I felt again the comforting “coming home” feeling which always awakens childhood memories of other well-loved small Virginia towns. The warm welcome by Mrs. Little and the hospitality afforded by the guest house added to our pleasure. We were offered two places at the dinner table of the Kappa Sig house and treated to a superb dinner presided over by their charming and capable house mother, Mrs. Robinson. (I regret that the box of fudge carried down for her was consumed by the senior to whom it was entrusted.) Conversation at dinner was challenging, and the oft-repeated cry for better speakers at Chapel was reiterated. One could hardly ask for a more distinguished speaker, however, than Author and Editor Hodding Carter who spoke on Friday, April 7. His newest book is about the experiences of Albert and Malva Heffner, parents of “Miss Mississippi,” who were forced to leave Mississippi because they spent an evening of discussion with several white ministers who were active in instituting social reforms. I was surprised to learn that the Davidson Male Choral group does not sing at chapel. Having heard them this week at the Christ Congregation Church in Silver Spring, Maryland, I believe that their beautifully trained voices would be a great incentive for students to attend. After dinner, we saw an inspired Davidson basketball team romp joyously to victory over North Carolina’s finest. Scotty Nicholls, Joyce Driesell, and I formed a delighted and dedicated cheering section engulfed by the shrieking and gasping eight thousand about us. For once in my life, I did not have to point out to the referees their lack of vision and judgment. The next morning permitted a leisurely survey of the campus library and I later learned that the Senior Class is considering donating money for books as their parting gift. As this is the only means by which a request can be made as to how money may be spent, parents of seniors who wish to donate books might add to the fund. Such a gift could publicize the inadequacy of the number of volumes in the library of a college of such an outstanding academic reputation as Davidson. Vassar College, having the same highly selective policy for student applicants, has three and one-half times the number of volumes in the library. In the quiet of the guest house again, I found a proverb which pleased me in that I believed it applies to the goals the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN is setting for its readers. “He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good.”

MRS. FRED Z. HETZEL
Washington, D. C.

Dial

Dear Editor:

Wednesday night last week, the Hundred Davidson Seniors rose bravely to the cause and pledged their staunch support to the proposed boycott. Thursday morning, the Hundred stood as one in public proclamation of their indissoluble Vow as I shielded my face from the glare of flashing pins. Only this week, I noticed a hundred embarrassed Davidson Seniors sheepishly slipping into their assigned seats as the last chapel bell drew near.

Louis H. Dial
Davidson College

by Johnny Hart

I DON'T KNOW WHO'S THE SADIST, YOU... OR CHARLIE. GO AHEAD... TEAR YOUR ARM MUSCLES AND RIP UP A BUNCH OF PIECES!