FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1965 Sports Editor THE NEW LOOK A plush, wine-colored, wall-to-wall carpet in head coach Homer Smith’s office, a wooden observation tower resembling some sort of medieval siege equipment, and the promise of new uniforms symbolize Davidson’s “New Look” in football. These changes are minor compared to some that Coach Smith and his young staff have brought to Davidson already. On Open End last Wednesday night, before a full house in the union, Coach Smith answered questions about his team, his recruiting, his plans and his hopes. Citing defensive left cornerback Tommy Dews and running back Steve Smith for their outstanding performances so far in practice, Coach Smith refused to really point at any weaknesses as disastrous. Admitting quarterback was a source of inexperience and would be subject to trial, Smith apparently was not upset over this: “Of course I'd like to have Joe Namath as my quarterback, but then I guess you'd like to have Bear Bryant.” When asked about the need of working on fundamentals, Smith expounded some of his good sense approach to a situation: “First of all we want to make use of the natural abilities of our players so we can judge them fairly as athletes. Why correct a boy too early on fundamentals and have him so worried about which foot goes where when he starts to stop a man, that his play suffers? “These boys have to adapt to a different style of play, I don’t want to criticize fundamentals because that would be criticizing my predecessor and I don’t ever intend to do this.” Coach Smith has a big job. As he says his biggest problem is in establishing a way of play. Not only must he teach his new team this new way of play but he must evaluate and install at the same time. Still his problems seem to be smaller and smaller when we look at the job he has already done with football at Davidson. Embarking on a course without a model school to follow he is depending on his staff and himself for ideas about Davidson football. He wants a team “fun to watch.” With enthusiastic players and an excited, though maybe just curious student body as his following, Coach Smith seems well on his way to reaching his goal. “We've got to win, we've just got to” Coach Smith softly confessed late Wednesday. But win or not much has already been done. Finally at Davidson the worst thing about Homecoming won’t be the football game. THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE (Photo by DuPuy) JOHN LITTLE SETS FOR W. VA. PITCH ‘Cats Drop Two More In Baseball Netters Sweep Three, Extend Mark To 13-1 By MIKE MOOTY Davidsonian Sports Writer Davidson’s tennis team upped its record to 13-1 this week, taking matches from Pfeiffer, Old Dominion, and St. Andrews. Pfeiffer fell early in the week 9-0 despite what Coach Harry Fogleman called a “bad day.” The Wildcats took Old Dominion 8-1 Tuesday afternoon, dropping one doubles match. Fogleman indicated that he was not at all satisfied with the doubles play of the team so far this season. He has shifted his lineup pairing Bill Council with Dick Hurd and Bill Schutt with Emonds Phelps. Fogleman emphasized that this is “strictly an experiment," but added that “we are going to have to do something to improve our doubles play.” The ‘Cats swept past St. Andrews Thursday 9-0. This victory was the eighth straight win for the squad since an early season loss to Rollins. After a home match with Toledo next Tuesday, the Foglemen will go south to face foes in Atlanta, Ga. and Spartanburg, taking on Emory, Thursday and Wofford, Friday. The Wofford game was originally scheduled for this past week but was moved into the slot left vacant by the cancellation of the match with Oglethorpe. In discussing next week's schedule, Coach Fogleman pointed out that Toledo has an “exceptionally fine squad” this year. He added that they were runner up in the Mid-American Conference. “Emory always has a good team,” he commented, pointing out that they would have the advantage of playing on their home courts. Wofford, he indicated, would cap off a real rugged week. When asked how the picture looked for the rest of the season, Fogleman quickly pointed out that the team has several tough matches remaining. “But,” he said, “if we could finish out the season without a loss, that would give us a sixteen game streak. That would have to be some sort of record. It'd really put us up there with the big boys.” Abbey, Pfeiffer, W. Va. Clip Hapless Wildcats By LARRY NORFLEET Davidsonian Sports Writer Coach Tom Stevens’ charges racked up four more losses last week in falling to Belmont Abbey and Pfeiffer and dropping a doubleheader with West Virginia. Playing their first game on their newly-built field, the Crusaders of Belmont Abbey were up and ready for the Wildcat diamondmen. Jim Hyder had a single, Skip Waite collected a double, and Ronnie Stone pounded out a triple in collecting all of Davidson’s three hits. Bob Pogachnik went the distance and held Davidson to two runs while the Crusaders piled up seven round-trip tickets. Ronnie Rudolph started for the ‘Cats but had to be relieved by Gene Bennett and Charles Elliott. Monday’s action saw Pfeiffer overcome a four-run deficit and whip the ‘Cats 6-5 in nine innings. Coach Stevens commented that “Jim Hyder did an excellent job on the mound but tired after seven innings.” Before the pitching had settled down, Davidson had blown their 5-1 lead and were trailing by the winning run. Sam Shouse was the winning pitcher for Pfeiffer while Howard Bryan took the loss. Last Wednesday Davidson dropped both games of a doubleheader to West Virginia by 3-0 and 6-2. “We had good pitching, and everybody was hustling,” commented Coach Stevens, “but we weren't hitting the ball at the right time." Davidson had five hits compared to four for West Virginia in the first game, but the Wildcats couldn't turn them into runs. Bryan pitched the four-hitter for Davidson and was credited with the loss while John Rabosevich went all seven innings for the Mountaineers. In the second game West Virginia exploded for four runs in the fifth while Davidson could produce only two, and the Mounties took the game 6-2. Dave Johnson pitched the entire game for the ‘Cats and added a double to the losing effort while Hyder and Dick Snyder had two hits apiece. The only exciting moment in the otherwise dull game came with two out in the last inning, and the bases loaded. A grand slam would put the game into extra innings, and who should walk up to the plate but Davidson's own Casey, centerfielder Snyder. Snyder took the first strike in the genuine Casey manner, fouled off the second pitch, and took a tremendous swing at the next pitch as the ball sounded in the catcher’s mitt for the third strike. Davidson meets a good team from East Carolina today and Saturday and face High Point Thursday. East Carolina clobbered Davidson in their last meeting. Coach Stevens says that High Point is supposed to be good, but he emphasized hopefully that, “We're going to win some ballgames.” Linksters Club VPI To Set 4-0 SC Mark The Wildcat golf team outshot VPI by a 10½-7½ score and picked up their fourth consecutive Southern Conference victory against no defeats in Charlotte Monday. The win, coming on the team’s home course at Carolina Golf Club, advanced the ‘Cats’ overall record to eight wins and four defeats. Mackey McClelland shared medalist honors with Bill Cochrane of the Gobblers as he carded a 74. The victory presaged a successful performance by the Cats in the Conference Tournament, for VPI is considered their toughest competition for the championship. “We have now defeated the top three finishers —VPI, The Citadel, and George Washington—in last year’s tournament,” commented Coach Tom Scott. He further pointed out that although regular season competition is scored by match play and the tournament will be medal play the ’Cats defeated VPI by both scoring systems. Yesterday, the team visited Durham to play the Blue Devils of Duke, but because of the inability of several key players to make the trip Davidson’s MANDATE FOR CHANGE (Staff Photo by Johnson) Last Monday the gavel of the IMAC presidency was handed to Tommy Hunter. Along with his office Hunter has inherited the usual mumble-jumble of ineptness that runs Davidson’s intramural program. Mike Thurman tried last year. For one person, with no unified assistance at all, he did remarkably well. The main problem that Thurman faced was the same one that Hunter will soon encounter — complete apathy. Really, who gives a happy damn what the IMAC does? Thurman tried, but could never have solved the mammoth problems of apathy by himself, and after Christmas break a quorum at an IMAC meeting was as rare as a perfumed sweatsock. Changes must break this death grip of apathy. The following proposals should be enacted immediately by the council: 1. Running standings should bekept in each sport as it progresses.
2. Statistics on each sport should be kept by the same people who are keeping the standings. Committees of from one to three IMAC members could keep records on each sport. Up-to-date, overall standings must be kept by the president and vice-president.
4. The five-point penalty for the failure of a fraternity’s representative to show at a meeting should be enforced. A ten-point penalty should be considered. The point penalty for no referees should be enforced. The constitution says a team will be penalized three points if one referee fails to show and five if both are missing. The penalties should be raised to five for one and eight for two referees not appearing for their game.
5. Re-examine the value system with a mind to eliminate handball or change it to a double elimination tournament like tennis was last year. Along the same lines, the point values of flickerball, basketball, and softball should be raised, or the point values of minor (intermediate) individual sports, swimming, wrestling, and track should be lowered.
6. But if the trouble the IMAC had in electing their officers (three meetings, no quorum at the first two) is an indication of a new look, things haven’t changed at all.
7. Hunter faces a monumental job next year. Barring a miracle, the entire IMAC set-up will have to be altered to suit the changes suggested in the faculty fraternity report. These changes I have offered must come now, while there is time, before all IMAC energy is expended trying to adjust to the labor pains caused by Davidson’s newborn social system.

In Wofford-PC Meet
PETER PARROTT SWINGS FOR DAVIDSON

Chances of defeating the ACC power were slight and running strong, but outclassed in the News Piedmont Relays, Davidson's trackmen bounced back to set five Wofford records in their three-team meet with Wofford and Presbyterian Tuesday.

Competing in the News Piedmont Relays against a field composed of teams like Clemson, Brown, Maryland State, and Furman (over a dozen schools in all), the ‘Cats made a strong showing. Outstanding were Alan Turner, who captured first place in the 100-yard dash with a time of 9.8 seconds, Bill Kendrick with a 191'9" javelin toss worth third place, and freshman Scott Sinnock’s second place pole vault. Davidson relay teams captured third place in the mile relay and fourth place in the 440-yard and two-mile relays.

On Tuesday the trackmen moved off the cinders and, for the first time, onto an all-weather track at Wofford in a meet with Wofford and Presbyterian. The change failed to slow them down. Five Wofford records crumbled under the ‘Cats' fleet feet. The records were set by Alan Turner, with a 9.8 in the 100; Ronnie Reese with a 1:57.6 in the 880-yard run; Denny Phillips, who had a 4:30.6 mile; John Barrow with a 10:06 two-mile run; and John Fagg who heaved the shot put 44'6”. The meet ended in an 83-50-27 victory for Davidson over second-place Wofford and last-place Presbyterian. The team's next meet comes with the Davidson Relays on Saturday of Spring Frolics.

Netters Are Undefeated in Conference
IMAC Softball
By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Spring is here. And with Spring at Davidson comes a lazy, easy-going sport known as IMAC softball, where almost anyone can beat anyone else on a given day. Annual gripes about the sport are again centered on the ground-rule double and the short right field lines on some fields. Most players feel it is an unfair advantage and prompts coaches to reject many impressionable young students, namely right-handed batters. A blooper 100 feet long down the right field line is good for a double. Still, the various team coaches manage not to worry too much over the situation unless they are “hurting for southpaw blooper sluggers.”

Around the court, the Pikas have a solid infield built around shortstop John Callender. The Pikas are depending on knuckleball artist Larry Outlaw to pitch. Their main trouble is a lack of dependable left-handed hitters. Muldoon Briggs and Lyle Smith have trouble even getting their bloops to reach the woods. The Kappa Sigs have Fred Hetzel on the mound and, as usual, have a strong team and are a powerful contender. The Sig Eps have been capitalizing on the right field double rule and rely on the leadership of David James in the infield. The SAE's are tough when they get going at the same time. Ed Armfield should be one of their big men.

The 1 Kapps admit to being short on hitting but have strong fielding and could surprise some good teams. The KA's have the hitting to go with good defense led by Tommy Hunter. The Fijis looked good in beating the Pi Kapps 9-1, behind the two-hit pitching of Dale Keller. This could be the team to beat this year. They are ready. A spokesman for the Independents invited all chronic losers to join their team. “We really get beat bad, but everyone seems to enjoy it,” he declared with a puzzled look.

The Machis boast of their third base-shortstop combination. Coach Jim Appleby noted, “Greg Haynes and Lee Fanning make the best left side of the infield in the league.” On hitting, Appleby said, “We don't have any real big hitters besides Dick Short who just hit a pinch-hit triple a minute ago.” The Betas have Tom Frist on the mound, but have some troubles in the loss of Jimmy Timmons because of a dislocated elbow. The Phi Delts have Steve Davidson, George Solley, Phil Squier, William Rikard, and Hugh Allen on the same diamond and could be the team to beat if Allen’s pitching comes around. The ATO’s are a question mark. At “RR” Carson holds the Taus hopes in his well-coordinated fingers.

In recent games, the Sig Eps beat the Pikas 14-10, the Independents lost to the Phi Delts 29-1 and to the Machis 18-3. The KA's beat the Pi Kapps 7-1 and the Nus 9-2. The SAE's lost to the Kappa Sigs 5-1, beat the Sig Eps 19-5, and the Betas 18-14. The Betas also dropped a high-scoring contest to the Sigma Chis 21-16 last week but beat the ATO’s 6-2 on Monday. The Sigma Nu's are weak but still may pull some upsets off.

(Staff Photo by Johnson)
KIRK REED AT THE PLATE
KA’s Take Pi Kapps In IMAC Softball