Che BDavidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager
FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Separating The Issues

One thing has emerged from the clouded questions around which yesterday’s referendum was based: there is a definite dissatisfaction with the status quo as far as the drinking rule in the student body constitution is concerned. As one Student Council member stated after the votes were counted, “This is obviously a mandate for some sort of change in this area.”

It is unfortunate that the issues were not clearly defined in the balloting yesterday; however, we feel that a more lucid statement of student body opinion is now in order. This confusion of issues in the referendum question was one reason the Student Council opposed the passage of the amendment. As the statement released by the Council this week read, “The Student Body referendum on this issue should speak more clearly....”

A large segment of the student body is opposed to the drinking rule as it now stands. Whether this dissatisfaction lies in the area of student enforcement, the question of a “wet” or “dry” campus, the duty-bound/honor-bound controversy or the automatic suspension rule is not clear because of the many and varied implications which outright repeal of the rule might infer.

Therefore, we would propose that the Student Council—as the elected representatives in furthering the best interests of the student body—conduct a student opinion poll as soon as possible on the following questions:

1. Do you favor drinking on the lake campus? Yes or no.
2. Specify one:
   a. I am opposed to any drinking on the town campus.
   b. I support drinking without geographical restrictions anywhere on the town campus.
   c. I support drinking in restricted areas on the town campus.
      Drinking should be permitted:
      —on the fraternity court
      —in the dormitories
      —in the Union
      —at events sponsored by the new Social Council
      —at athletic events
3. As long as there is a drinking rule in the Student Body constitution, members of the Honor Court and Student Council should be honor-bound to enforce the regulation. Yes or No
4. As long as there is a drinking rule in the Student Body constitution, members of the Student Body should be duty-bound to enforce the regulation. Yes or No

A poll conducted along the above questions would give a clear-cut sampling of student opinion on the two main arguments put forth before yesterday’s voting. With hardly more than one week remaining in the school year, it is doubtful that any definite, prudent change can be made this year. Nevertheless, the results of such an opinion poll can be used as a tangible basis for any action which the Student Council may undertake—most likely at the beginning of school this fall.

We are not advocating a needless delay by the Council in confronting the issue. Rather, Student Council members as a committee of the whole could wisely use the summer months assembling pertinent information in order to more readily implement any changes that might be proposed in this area.

Responsibility seems to be the issue some advocates of change have voiced. Yet to repeal the drinking rule from the student body constitution without corresponding faculty-administrative action along the same line appears to remove any realm of student responsibility and enforcement in what is obviously an area of important student concern.

There is something acid about calling for student defiance of any college regulation, especially when administrators have stated unequivocally that they will enforce this regulation if it is abrogated by students. Liberalizations have only recently been made by the faculty in the cut system, vespers rule and trunk rule. All changes were originally requested by students and reached, not by student defiance of the faculty as voiced by some supporters of yesterday's referendum, but by logical presentations by student representatives of the reasons behind such requests.

This is why we feel that the compilation of student opinion on specific issues as suggested above is the next logical step for the Student Council in determining the best interests of the student body.

Costly Oversight

Last December the faculty requested President D. Grier Martin to confer with the President of the Trustees, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, in order to appoint a joint faculty-trustee committee “to formulate a truly meaningful Statement of Purpose and Policy on the Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages by Davidson Students.” As of yet this committee has not been appointed.

This action was taken by the faculty more than five months ago, at the same time that the trunk rule was approved by the professors. Somehow we feel that, had this group been appointed, some of the antagonizing events of the past few weeks on the drinking rule might have been avoided. Sensing student opinion on this matter, such a committee could have clearly defined the current policy of the college and thereby prevented any possible misunderstandings which have arisen.

President Martin assured THE DAVIDSONIAN this week that the faculty’s request will be carried out as soon as possible. We regret that this oversight in the president’s office has occurred; however, we share the hope that the immediate formation of this committee will be a positive step by the faculty and trustees in an area of real student concern.

GOP Running Scared

By JOHN TODD Davidsonian Editor-In-Chief (Editorial Correspondence)

Student Body President Bill Council and I attended a partisan conference in Washington, D. C., last week, which was sponsored by a four-month-old group known as the National Student Leadership Committee. Perhaps the most obvious thing we learned from the two days of conferences was that the Republican Party is “running scared.”

The meeting was officially billed as the National Student Leadership Seminar, which sounds about as innocent as the Golden Years Club. The speakers and program were not so innocent as we soon found out, however. Republican Senators and Congressmen spoke candidly and profoundly to the approximately 200 students who represented colleges in nearly every part of the United States. Nearly every speaker lamented specifically the tremendous blunder of 1964 in the GOP. The lugubriousness fell on few receptive ears, however, as did the age-old plea for maintenance of a strong two-party system in America.

The seminar itself was unique, being the first of its kind ever sponsored in any way by a national political party. The greatest value in the conference was being able to talk informally with student leaders, who can seriously face the problems that arise on their own campuses as well as off the campus. Such serious discussions and debates among college students seem to go unnoticed these days by news media around us, in favor of the rather sensational and melodramatic in college life. Nevertheless, we feel this country’s heritage worth praising occasionally, no matter how trite the expressions might sound.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Cecil's Troops Expand Assault On ROTC Aiken

Dear Editor,

Since 1919, many students of Davidson College have been complaining about the requirement that all qualified students complete two years of basic ROTC to be eligible for graduation. But for some reason, the requirement has remained intact. Again compulsory ROTC is being attacked. The difference between this attack and those which preceded is that it is not based upon a mere dislike for the program, but on a sincere belief that the requirement is not in keeping with the stated purpose of Davidson College.

This inconsistency seems obvious in the light of a number of statements contained in the Statement of Purpose as found in the first three pages of the Davidson College Catalogue.

“Davidson's primary purpose is to develop men of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds and of Christian character.” Does the training of students in the tactics of organized killing serve this end? Does a system of merits and demerits for cleaning weapons, brass, and shoes develop the type of discipline and creativity mentioned above? Are not the elements of discipline and creativity more available in the truly academic courses of this liberal arts college?

“Davidson is a college of liberal arts. As such it emphasizes those studies, disciplines and activities which liberate men physically, mentally and spiritually.” Does two years of compulsory ROTC liberate men in the sense of any of these terms? We already have compulsory physical training, compulsory academic courses, and compulsory church attendance. Are these not sufficient?

“Davidson concentrates upon the study of history, literature, music and the arts, the physical, natural and social sciences, languages, mathematics, philosophy and religion.” What does the college mean by “concentrates?” It has omitted ROTC from this academic roster. The college requires two years of ROTC, but not so much as a single hour of music, art, or philosophy. Except for the requirements of literature and language, which accelerated students may exempt in part, students are required to study more military science than any other items on the list. (A student who spends four years in the program will have more hours of military science than any other subject save that of his major.)

“It (Davidson) must also provide these men with the time and opportunity for creative scholarship which is fundamental to the best teaching.” Since the two years spent studying ROTC do not contribute time or opportunity for creative scholarship, do they not then detract from the actual time and opportunity students may have for creative scholarship?

“... Its (Davidson’s) trustees, its faculty, its students and its friends must constantly rededicate themselves to their task. Only through ceaseless effort and sacrificial labor can they make of Davidson what it seeks to be — A Christian liberal arts college second to none in the service of God and of man.” If Davidson is to be consistent with itsstated purpose, it must subject all its aspects, departments, personnel, and students to the rigid test outlined by the statement of purpose. When it finds itself falling short of the mark set by the purpose, it must strive to overcome its weaknesses. It is obvious that compulsory ROTC falls far short of the mark. The only way to correct this flaw is to remove the requirement of basic ROTC for all students. Davidson must do this, or change its Statement of Purpose.

B. A. Aiken
Davidson College

Coffey

Dear Editor:

If ever in the future a scholar fond of literary allusions is inspired to author a new edition of Miss Cornelia Shaw's momentous history of Davidson College, he might refer to the year of 1965 as the "winter of our discontent." Incidentally, such a scholar might find his inspiration in the college library, a likely source of literary allusions, where Miss Shaw's portrait regally glares down on the periodical room. Our discontent has found many avenues of expression this year — Jones and the fraternities, Goodstein and the drinking rule, Wooten and ROTC. In the first two cases, the effective expression of student opinion played an important role.

There has yet to be an expression of student opinion about the requirement of two years of required military training under the ROTC program. There are at least two methods of effectively voicing student opinion at Davidson College: demonstrations and petitions. Since, at Davidson at least, demonstrations are reserved for the expression of a desire to maintain the status quo, it seems that to effect a change in the ROTC program, a petition would be more in keeping with the Davidson tradition. Therefore, a petition is being circulated requesting the faculty to take immediate steps to abolish the requirement of two years of ROTC.

At the Open End program a week ago, President Martin spoke briefly about the ROTC requirement. At that time, he said that he was unaware of anything more than the complaints of a few students about compulsory ROTC, and that a few people had complained each year since 1919, when the program was established. However, he added that if there ever were a concerted student effort to have the requirement abolished, the faculty would give it serious consideration. The time has come for such a concerted effort. The student body can prove for the third time this year that its opinions are respected by the faculty and administration. Any student desiring to sign this petition will find a copy at his fraternity house or the Union desk. Copies are also being circulated by Cecil Wooten, B. A. Aiken, Clark Sugg, and myself.

David Coffey
Davidson College

Wooten

Dear Editor:

At Open-End last week, President Martin said that one of the administration's objectives in requiring all students to take two years of military training was to give each student a taste of military life. It does indeed seem strange that the college, which professes to give each student a liberal education, feels that an introduction to military training should be put on a compulsory basis whereas art, music, and philosophy, which are considered to be an integral part of a liberal education, should be voluntary.

It seems to me that the situation should be reversed. It is indeed a sad commentary on any liberal arts college that it considers military training more important to a liberal education than other courses, such as art, music, and philosophy, which are deeply embedded in the liberal arts tradition.

Cecil Wooten
Davidson College

Seamans

Dear Editor:

One argument I have heard in favor of compulsory ROTC is that Davidson is too small to support a ROTC program of a voluntary nature. Even without recourse to asking such questions as the propriety of forcing everyone to take ROTC for the sake of the minority who wish to go into the advanced program, or the value of military training in a liberal education, I believe this particular argument can be effectively countered.

Defining any school with fewer than 1500 male undergraduates as comparable to the size of Davidson insofar as this discussion is concerned, I find no fewer than twenty-two such institutions in the "most selective," "highly selective," and "very selective" categories of the Comparative Guide to American Colleges that are able to offer optional ROTC. This list includes such institutions as Bowdoin (811 students), Colby (761 students), Kenyon (602 students), Union (1190 students), the University of the South (704 students), and Washington and Lee (1089 students).

I do not know what sort of financial arrangement Davidson has with the United States Army in regard to compulsory ROTC, but apparently sacrificing such revenue (if it exists) did not significantly affect the policy of these twenty-two schools. Of the twenty-two, only nine have larger endowments than Davidson, and none are state-supported. Thus they are in no better position than Davidson to afford loss of revenue.

In light of these facts, it seems to me that Davidson College should have little difficulty in offering a ROTC program on a voluntary basis, if the administration so desires.

Geoffrey L. Seamans
Davidson College

Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Southern North Carolina — particularly Davidson — has no spring. There is a three-week monsoon season between winter and summer, but hardly anything like the Spring of the poets. If it isn’t cold, it’s wet. When it isn’t wet, then it gets hot. And this is why I like prophesying the slow death of Davidson College or ponderously commenting on anything else. It’s just too hot.

The heat must have cooked quite a few brains. Why else would so many last-minute-wonders put off three term papers, now to be done in a week? Or try to get a wet campus in three weeks? Or do away with compulsory ROTC in a month? Everyone’s sense of timing must be shot to high heavens.

The thought of a wet campus holds no particular nightmares for me. I’ve visited campuses where drinking was allowed nearly everywhere and neither saw nor heard any reason or complaint over the set-ups. The referendum has no chance of passing. But what is really amusing is hearing people use the arguments of “the faculty will never allow this” or “it’s really the issue of a wet or dry campus” to get around what I still think is the crucial issue: whether one man’s drinking is a matter of another man’s honor — and if so, why it’s a matter of only thirty men’s honor.

There was quite a pile-up on the editorial page last week. Wooten blasting compulsory ROTC for the third week running — Kimrey taking off on poor old "Davidson College" again — a cartoon on the recent trustees’ decision, among other things. And only a blurb on the really significant news about Dr. Richey’s award-winning compositions and the honors they have received. A hearty “well-done” to him! It is this kind of recognition that reflects credit and prestige on the man and his work, his students, and the entire institution. This is the kind of thing that will keep Davidson College from its much-prophesied academic death.

Statements I have not yet figured out:
1) “It still takes 21 years to make a man.” (Compliments of last week’s vespers speaker.)
2) “Davidson College does not need a new student bureaucracy.” (As if there was an old bureaucracy — this student body has had thus far a very minimal effect on everything about the campus.)
3) “The drinking rule is what has made Davidson College great.” (I thought it might be the quality of education.)

Spring Fever...
by Lingle

Drama Department Stages New, ‘Absurd’ Experiment
By PRESTON FAGGART
A Review

One corner of the Davidson Campus is not afraid of the new, the experimental, the different, as the events of last week plainly showed. The events were the twin billing of Ionesco’s Chairs and New Tenant, the third major Drama Production at Hodson Hall. The plays belong to a body of recent theater writing Martin Enslin has called “Theater of the Absurd,” and although the plays are 10 to 8 years old (respectively), they are perhaps 50 years ahead of the prevailing Davidson cultural climate.

“Absurd” plays often become “anti-plays” with complete disregard and reversal of standard theater conventions and sometimes become super-plays in which the familiar, the easily understood, trite, fully precedented techniques are blown sky high and reach monumental nothingness (as perhaps the pop painter Roy Lichtenstein will blow up a frame from a cheap comic strip complete with ballooning dialogue to the size of Rembrandt’s Night Watch).

In Davidson’s production of Chairs, two veteran thespians, Constance Welsh and Simon Blackford, collaborated with a host of real but invisible guests, whose presence we are aware of by the chairs that are brought on stage to accommodate them, by a lighting crescendo, and the personal attention of their hosts. The play pulled its audience through a terrific variety of emotions by means of high tragedy, low comedy, banality, pathos, bathos, grandiose rhetoric, noble sentiment, and brutal naturalism. Mr. Blackford in the role of the Old Man (95) and Mrs. Welsh, his wife Semiramis (94), turned in the best performances so far this season at Davidson in the difficult and sometimes exasperating roles. The mood and mystery of this sad, beautiful play were thoroughly and exquisitely realized by these consummate artists.

The Chairs ends in deep pessimism, as the Orator, the only non-invisible guest (Rawley Turner), delivers the message the Old Man has entrusted to him as the summation of the thoughtful philosopher's life: NOTHING AT ALL to a stage full of empty people.

The New Tenant which follows is a zany piece with Michael Light in the title role, Nancy Copeland as a super-daft irascible caretaker of drab flats in London, two furniture movers: Mike Arrowood and Ed Craig, and finally wall-to-wall, floor-to-ceiling furniture. The play seemed to breeze by with bewildering speed as the furniture kept pouring in and finally we realize the poor man is so bogged down with his objects, material possessions, there is no room left for life. Light is super-cool in his role, which in some ways is his role in life, an English gentleman full of wry and subtle humor. Miss Copeland in her own way carries the part with verve and dazzle.

The evening was a rare treat. Such difficult and important plays deserve a larger audience than was present (there were enough chairs on stage by the end of Chairs to accommodate most of the visible audience). And more to the credit of the Drama Department's head and play's director Rupert Barber is the fact that the conditions under which he struggles are severely limiting. The facilities are grossly inadequate. The stage is portable, cramped, and allows none but the most awkward maneuverability. Most schools have better resources in spite of some expensive if fallible layouts lighting-wise and sound-wise.