FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1966

THE DAVIDSONIAN DRAWS FAVORABLE COMMENTS

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

After two weeks under the “new ROTC” system, a great deal of interest, comment, and criticism have been heard concerning the activities centered in the basement of Belk. The changes, reported in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, basically entail delayed drill, revised weapons cleaning periods, and improved classroom teaching methods.

When asked how the improvements were decided upon, Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, said, “The critique sheets handed to cadets were the major tools in the newest changes. They were carefully examined, categorized, and evaluated for hours and hours, before we came up with anything definite.” Outlaw continued, “We tried to tailor these innovations to provide a more equitable application of our resources. We feel we've made some improvements, and we're making more all the time.” His philosophy is that everything can be improved, and these changes are but a part of a general evaluation and improvement of the Davidson ROTC program.

LATE DRILL

Said Capt. Robert Crittendon on the delayed drill, “I think everyone realizes that at least one of the reasons for delaying drill an extra half-hour is to enable those students with fourth-period classes to prepare for drill and still get something to eat. But there is another reason: we think this will give the juniors and seniors time to prepare better for their leadership positions.”

Comments noted from students followed. From a freshman, “If we had to be on the field at 1:30, I'd never make it—there's just not enough time to do everything and eat, too.” This word from a senior, “I can't see too much to be gained by this pre-drill meeting for all officers and NCO’s. They should know by then what's going to come off. The other changes are great, though.”

RIFLE CARE

Outlaw and his staff have taken a giant step forward, if general opinion is any measure of success. The program is definitely more realistic now than before, as evidenced by the revised schedule for cleaning weapons. Capt. Harold Fraley pointed out that the critiques were especially helpful here. Reports that the “usual checks” were a waste of time and energy prompted an investigation to determine whether or not weapons needed such attention. “It was found,” he said, “that a field-strip cleaning and lubrication would protect the weapons if done every other week.” Student reaction was nearly entirely in favor of this change. “It was pretty common knowledge,” remarked a junior, “that almost everybody just went down to the armory to sign his initials without even looking at his rifle. That was just a waste of time, and meant a rifle sometimes went three weeks without being cleaned or looked at.”

INSTRUCTION

The changes not only affect the drill period every Tuesday, but also and perhaps more important the classroom instruction. ROTC classes meet only one or two hours a week, and therefore must make every use of the instructors and equipment available. The program is now moving towards a more practical and thoughtful approach to the cadet in the ROTC program. Explained Crittendon, “Col. Outlaw has reassigned us in regard to teaching duties; the man with the most experience in a field will teach in the classroom about that subject.” This change, as all of the others, is in the best interest of the student for whom the course is intended. The schedule and procedure is generally now considered more practical and thoughtful of the cadet in the ROTC program. Perhaps the best example of this fact is the recent innovation in the merits/demerits system: the cadet cannot be issued any merits or demerits without a full explanation why and written notification of them.

NEW PROGRAM

Moreover, it is evident that the ROTC teaching staff is a more dynamic organization than it has been in the past. The definite far-sighted changes in what was often dubbed as a lethargic program. These and other changes and new ideas to come, such as the NCO school, Special Forces, and sophomore/freshman maneuvers, will perhaps erase the dull, crip-course label so often associated with the program here. In the words of one sophomore, “It’s even getting exciting at times!” Exciting—well, maybe when they show the war flicks, but at least now the cadet can see some purpose in the course and some hint of a practical and efficient organization.

Library ‘Weeds’ Volumes

The college library staff, in cooperation with the faculty, has carried out a thorough and continuous “weeding” of the stacks, in order to keep the collection substantially free of obsolete material, according to Library Director Chalmers Davidson. The “weeding” process, according to Davidson, has enabled the library to “maintain an alive, well-selected, appropriate selection throughout the past two decades.” In a partial answer to criticism of the school’s inadequate collection of books, Davidson pointed out that the present total of 105,000 volumes could easily have been brought to 200,000 over the years, if it were not for the high degree of discrimination which has been shown in accepting gifts of books and in retaining old volumes. Since 1945, for example, almost 4,300 volumes have been simply discarded. The University of the South, a college with only a slightly larger library than Davidson, has found itself faced with the problem of undertaking a crash program of “weeding” out obsolete books and documents because of its failure to maintain a policy such as Davidson's in the past. Davidson also noted that over the same 20-year period, over 2,000 volumes have been stolen or have otherwise disappeared from the open stacks, with the year 1962-63 showing a record total of 234 books missing. Among recent acquisitions to the library have been some 700 rare volumes contributed over the past year by collector H. M. Marvin of New Haven, Conn. Dr. Marvin, a Davidson graduate of 1914, has shown a continuing interest in supplying the school with many rare and beautiful editions. The limited editions are usually numbered and frequently signed. Among the list are many from Bruce Rogers and the Golden Cockerel Press. Examples of the more recent shipments include Prelude to a Million Years, a book of wood engraving by Lynd Ward, The Complete Angler, by Bruce Rogers, A Book-Lover’s Bouquet, by Edward L. Stone, Zastrozzi, a romance by Percy Bysshe Shelley, and The Trees, by Conrad Richter.

First By-laws Created For Freshman Council

By GREY PASH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Freshman having cars second semester, by-laws for the Freshman Council, a committee for Freshman social life and changes in the freshman regulations are currently being discussed at the Freshman Council meetings on Thursday nights. The representative body of the Freshman Class has been investigating, evaluating, and formulating ideas and proposals concerning their purpose in relation to the Freshman Class.

BY-LAWS

One of the most important actions taken by the Council has been to set up by-laws. There have previously been no by-laws for the Council. A committee headed by Frank Shepard has collected materials from the past relating to the job of the Freshman Council and is now in the process of writing a set of by-laws. Explained President Tom Irons, “When we were elected last fall we didn't know where to start. There were no by-laws or written rules. All we had to go on was what had been handed down by old members of the Council. We hope that these by-laws will better define our purpose and be an aid to future council members.”

REGULATIONS

Another committee, headed by Tom Pope, has been evaluating the existing freshman regulations. After further study, which is to include evaluation forms filled out by each council member and his hall, the council hopes to be able to present some suggestions to the Student Council for amendments to the regulations. Another important study in the making is that of Freshman social life. Their work has been temporarily discontinued because of overlapping with the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, but some of the suggestions already made include a budget for the Freshman Council (they now use Union funds when available), council control of the Queens and Converse mixers, and a social committee for freshmen.

CARS FOR FROSH

Another proposal somewhat related to social life, that of Freshmen having cars on campus second semester, was brought up at the last Student Council meeting by Irons. It too has been tabled until after the report of the Fraternity Committee. Irons, president of the council and a recently sworn-in member of the Student Council is pleased with the Freshman Council's work, “We feel that now we are coming closer to our purpose as we see it—bringing the problems of the freshman to the Administration acting as a liaison.”

ANDREW DAWES Canadian Violinist

Violinist Will Present Artist Series Concert

Violinist Andrew Dawes will perform in Hodson Hall Monday at 8:15 p.m. as part of the Davidson College Artist Series. A native of Midnapore, Alberta, Canada, Dawes began his studies at the age of eight. At 18, he began touring Canada as a soloist, and, two years later, received a Canada Council scholarship for study at the Geneva Conservatoire in Switzerland. Following his graduation there in 1962, Dawes returned to Canada to win first prize in the national competition of the Jeunesses Musicales du Canada. Another tour of his native country followed and, last year, he returned to Geneva to win by unanimous vote the “Concours de Virtuosité” at the Geneva Conservatoire. Claude Savard, Dawes accompanist, is a native of Montreal. Savard was graduated in 1963 from the Montreal Conservatory with a “First Prize with Great Distinction.” Last June he was awarded the $5,000 Prix.

Rule, Goodman To Treat Collegiate View Of Sex

Two speakers will next week treat the discussion of Sex and Ethics, topic of the YMCA’s 1965 forums, Professor John T. Rule, former dean of students at Massa-

JOHN T. RULE On YMCA Sex Forum

Eight Students Chosen For Amherst Program

Eight Davidson students will be guests of Amherst College during the first week in April in an exchange program between Amherst and Davidson. Those chosen include John Barrow, Danny Boone, Charlie Dibble, Jay Federman, Tom Frist, Tommy Heffner, David Powell, and Ted Pulliam. The eight, chosen by the Student Council, will participate in an expense-free program in which the host school provides room and board. Arrangements have been made to use student cars for transportation. The participants will be at Amherst during their Spring Vacation beginning March 27. Tommy Heffner, program coordinator, said that Amherst has set no definite agenda for the Davidson students at this time. The delegates from the Massachusetts college will be at Davidson March 21-27. Davidson students will house them in their rooms and serve as hosts. They will eat at fraternity houses and the College Union and attend classes and seminars. This is the fourth year Amherst has conducted an exchange with a Southern college.

‘EDUCATION NOT CENSORSHIP’

Nash, ‘Tom Jones’ Provoke Gastonians

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Two Gastonia citizens made their plea for their own particular brand of censorship last Tuesday night in what was termed a “counter to Mrs. Nash,” referring to the recent visit of Dr. Ethel Nash. Bill Williams.Associate editor of the Gastonia Gazette, and Carl Stewart, a young Gastonia attorney, represented a sheriff's committee of 15 citizens appointed to educate the public in the field of censorship of magazines and books and to aid enforcement of North Carolina's decency law. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, Williams attempted to dispel a common misconception about himself and his cohorts: “People have the wrong idea. They think we're a bunch of censors.” The purpose of the committee, he added, was actually “to try to educate the public.” Stewart said the committee wished to “promote the dissemination of non-obscene literature.”

At the start of the program, Williams apparently blundered, commenting that “It was the movie Tom Jones that really kicked this thing off.” Noting the negative reaction of his audience, Williams barged ahead with “If this is the best movie America has produced this past year, then what in hell is the worst?” Williams then yielded the floor to Stewart, who gave a brief background summary of federal and state laws on the subject. Stewart then introduced the evening's main feature, a movie made by the Citizens for Decent Literature (CDL) committee in Ohio. The film ranks with other comedy classics that have appeared here, such as Irma la Douce and The Pink Panther. As the audience roared and applauded wildly at the film's more fantastic moments, it was almost impossible to believe the film was meant seriously. Such incredible clichés as “This moral decay weakens our resistance to the onslaught of the Communist threat,” and “wild flagrant abuses of the God-given gift of sex” were only a prelude to a set of magnificent generalizations whose scope was exceeded only by their impossibility to prove, including “This moral decay caused 16 of the 17 major civilizations to vanish from the earth.”

The finale came with a grandeur beyond our wildest dreams, however, when at the end of the film the narrator gazed intently at the camera and said with the fervor of a religious fanatic, “Oh God, deliver us, America, from Evil.” In a slightly anti-climactic presentation, Williams ended his portion of the program by evading several student questions regarding his condemnation of Tom Jones (“I don’t want to get into that.”) and by wisely turning over the question session to Stewart. Stewart seemed at ease and quickly found a rapport with his audience with his more liberal views on the subject. After avowing that his idea was to “cut down on the dissemination of the worst type of this literature,” he introduced two major modifications of the conservative position expressed by Williams and the film. First, he stated, it is much better to err in the direction of not enough censorship than too much, and second, education is much more important than censorship, which treats a “cause, not a symptom.”

continue

Massachusetts Institute of Technology will consider sex in relation to college administration problems. At chapel Tuesday, he will present “The College Student Looks at Sex.” That night “The College Looks at Sex” will be his topic in a talk in the Morrison Room of the Student Union. Rule is currently engaged in a foundation-supported study of the nature of the interactions between students and universities. For 12 years he has been an educational consultant to the Committee on the College Student of the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry.

Thursday, noted social visionist Paul Goodman will present a liberal view of sex. What follows is a hurried and so almost spontaneous reaction to a book I just finished reading for the first time. I say this not by way of apology, but in order to explain that this is not so much a description of the contents of the book as an exposure of the effect the work has had upon me. The weakness of this kind of “review” is that you may have difficulty distinguishing the author from the reviewer. The advantage is that you may come close to the spirit of the work being reviewed.

I know very little about Paul Goodman. I have read none of his other books and only a few of his articles. I know that he is an important and controversial American writer who will visit Davidson next week and that some people say he is a “way-out” writer. This particular work, Utopian Essays and Practical Proposals, is most definitely not “way out.” In fact, it is one of the few—and perhaps the only—book by a contemporary American social critic which is really in way-in. Why I think this and what I mean by “in” I shall now endeavor to show.

Popular books of social criticism, which this book is, tend to be analytically descriptive and critical (e.g., Vance Packard). Another type of social criticism—scarcely worthy of the name—is the irrelevantly moralistic piece (I wouldn't dream of giving an example!). Thus, books on social life tend to be either realistic or utopian; they are never both realistic and ethical. This is because modern man has divided the descriptive and the prescriptive functions of language and decreed that they must remain separated. And, in brief, this is Paul Goodman's gripe. And his strength, it seems to me, is that he has tried with some success to write a work of social criticism which unites description and prescription.

GOODMAN OBJECTS

As I read Goodman, he objects strongly to the modern tendency (compulsion) to identify the clean, objective, and sterile descriptions of life with our moral attitudes about life. This, he correctly sees, results in a resigned and fatalistic attitude about whatever modern man finds unsatisfactory in his environment. This attitude is not to be confused with the optimistic identification of “is” and “ought” found in—say, Alexander Pope or Voltaire’s Dr. Pangloss. Modern man does not feel that this is the best of all worlds, but that since it is the only one we've got, we'd better resign ourselves to our present understanding of it and not rock the boat with attempts to improve it. Descriptive analysis may not produce happiness, but it will hold the pieces together long enough for us to get through the day. Today our attempts at social planning (not social improvement, just “planning”), and our attempts at artistic creation or to find ultimate truth are all directed to one goal, namely the fullest possible description of existence.

INTELLECTUAL SOURCE

What distinguishes Goodman, in this one book at least, is that he affirms the responsibility, the morally constructive potentiality of human freedom. Neither life as an intellectually (technologically) determined problem, nor freedom as an irrelevant response seem acceptable to Goodman. Nor will he accept the hopeless idea that freedom can never alter the supposed certainties of life. Goodman is great because he rejects the modern pessimistic alternatives: (1) man may endure in the slavery of a technologically induced and cynically accepted conformity of morals and taste; (2) man may withdraw in disgust to private non-involvement; (3) man may rebel in the ultimate freedom of self-willed purposelessness, including death.

LIFE (IS WHAT?)

What Goodman does is to set forth specific answers to what are wrongly assumed to be the inevitable, non-moral conditions of life. Life, he seems to say, is not an intellectualized “problem” (essence); nor is life just courage to be—freedom (existence); life is problem-solving. The author offers what he calls “dumb-bunny” solutions to avoid a variety of very specific problems (e.g., ban private cars from New York City to alleviate some of the problems of urban congestion; employ men of talent to design a few towns and cities as models; spend less money on school buildings and more on teachers; decentralize New York City from a monstrosity of non-humanity to thousands of small communities). Always he sees the problems and the solutions in entirely human terms and the principal obstacles in the utopianism of intellectualized descriptions of life-problems. While his solutions are indeed practical, they are regarded by supposed realists as the dreams of a humpty-dumpty utopian. The irony is that the “realists” are actually the utopians who have fallen under the tyranny of unrealistic bureaucratic descriptions of life. The so-called eggheads are really the only practical thinkers left.

Telephones Change To Pre-Paid Basis

All coin telephones on the Davidson campus have been placed on a pre-paid basis as of March 1. According to J. Harry Mann, district manager for Southern Bell in Charlotte, the change was made so that campus telephones would conform with other phones all over the country. “Due to an equipment shortage after World War II, we had to install the ‘post-pay’ telephones in many areas, and we are standardizing all coin telephones now,” said Mann. “In effect, the change means that the caller will have to deposit his dime before getting the dial tone. This is the system used in most of the country now,” he concluded. Mann added that a new telephone directory will be distributed beginning today. The cover will be light blue with a drawing of the Charlotte College Science building.