PAGE FOUR

(Staff Photo by Smith)

COMPTON, VICK, McGUIRE, COLEMAN, SNIDER (L-R) Seeking Publications Posts

Rule Concentrates Talk On Philosophy Of Sex

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Sex—this time as seen by Dr. John P. Rule, former dean of students at MIT—was the topic of last Tuesday's chapel. This continuation of the YMCA forum on Sex and Ethics was widely anticipated by the student body, especially in view of the Ethel Nash experience. But those who expected more shouting from the audience were disappointed. Unlike Dr. Nash, Rule, a well-known authority on student-administration relations, restricted himself to a factual description of trends in the sex ethics of today’s college students. He also discussed some of the effects of these trends on students individually and as a group.

Students of today “question the validity of our society's restrictions on premarital sex,” according to Rule. “Adults should recognize the sincerity of most young people,” who are trying to work out “values to which they can honestly hold.” This moral re-evaluation is largely due to a search for belonging at a time in the life of the individual and at a point in history when the security offered by the family is steadily decreasing. The groups which take the place of the family may be more dictatorial with respect to sex practices. Individual decision on the issue is made harder by its emotional explosiveness. However, Rule contends, “Everyone must and should determine for himself what his attitudes toward sex are going to be.”

Giving college students credit for ingenuity, Rule commented that “sex expression takes many forms.” In general, though, any expression which reflects a “spiritual communion” between the persons involved is considered good by young people today. Those which do not express such communion are bad. By way of recognition of some problems inherent in such a view, Rule said, “Such an ethic is open to a great deal of rationalization.” Rule closed with the admonition that present trends have their dangers, although changes are necessary. Certain groups must not close themselves off from society. This could result from a serious rebellion in moral attitudes among college students.

When he finished (five minutes late), Rule had failed to generate the interest which he could have. His style and material were more suited to a classroom than to chapel. Commented one Davidson administrator leaving the auditorium, “I'm glad sex isn’t as dull as the people who talk about it.”

(Staff Photo by Smith)

SEX PROBLEMS Shown With YMCA Forums Chairman Jay Federman

Summer Enrollment To Pass 200 Mark

Over 200 students are expected to enroll in Davidson's summer session beginning June 17, according to Frontis Johnston, dean of faculty and director of the summer school. Johnston attributed the steady decline in numbers over the past 10 years to the higher quality of students who no longer need to attend.

This year's school will consist of three 3-week sessions, each equivalent to a semester's work. The three sessions will run from June 17 to July 10, July 12 to August 3, and August 5 to August 21. Students will attend classes five days a week, or six days if taking a science. There will be three 75-minute periods a day. The tentative schedule is: 8:05 to 9:20, first period; 9:20 to 10:35, second period; 10:35 to 11:15, chapel; and, 11:15 to 12:30, third period.

As in past years, only a limited number of courses will be offered, Johnston said. During the first two sessions, the college will offer 18 to 20 courses ranging from biology and physics to English 21 and the languages. However, freshman Bible and English will not be offered this summer. Only 6-10 courses will be offered during the third session, with sciences being omitted entirely.

Students attending a session will stay on campus and will be required to eat at the Union. The tuition will be $23 or $30 per semester hour, making the complete cost about $150 for a three-hour course. For the first time, the college will recommend that incoming freshmen come to summer school. They will be asked to take a language in order to decrease the size of the language classes in September. Dean Johnston recommends summer school for everyone, however. “I think it is a good chance to get ahead and lighten the load for your remaining years.”

to educational scholarships,” said College Union Director C. Shaw Smith, viewing the plan to give new Chevrolets to 15 Davidson seniors for a 30-day evaluation. Chevrolet Division of General Motors will pay all expenses—including gasoline, insurance, and any repairs—in exchange for each recipient's evaluation of the car's performance and appearance. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts emphasized the obligation of the students to communicate their opinions, for “this is not a one-way thing.” Defending Chevrolet against charges of publicity seeking, Burts said that Chevrolet intended to keep the use of a car a secret until a banquet at which the 15 students were simply to express their opinions of automobiles in general. But an information leak occurred in the college's preparation for the program. The students will receive their new Impala Super Sports at a banquet on March 18 in the Union's Wildcat Room. Two of the original 15 seniors were unable to obtain parental consent. Burts and Smith have selected Harold Kernodle and Jim Downey as replacements.

Haselden Presents Minority Report

The Fraternity Evaluation Committee has met and discussed at length the fraternity situation at Davidson College in an effort to answer this basic question: “Are the fraternities serving the needs of Davidson College and its students, and are there specific steps that might be taken to better serve these needs?” While I do not agree in total with the other reports in answer to this question, there may be some agreement between some of my points and those issued by the other members of the committee. As a minority, I agree that there are certain things wrong with the fraternity system, but I do not agree that the fraternities are the entire cause of the problems that exist on this campus, nor are they to share the full blame. It is with this in mind that I make the following proposals and suggestions, along with pertinent remarks.

1. Maintain the Present Fraternity System.
   A. Maintain the present fraternity rush system (first week of first semester) because:
      1. Provides immediately for the existing needs of incoming freshmen, both socially and academically, i.e., maintain average, provides study halls, provides tutors, social outlet.
      2. Allows for greater diversification within the Greek letter fraternities which enables individuals to pursue fields of scholarship, athletics, social, etc. within a common goal.
      3. Enables a greater number of people to participate in rush and keeps fraternities from so-called typing. (Dr. Rule of MIT stated that MIT had the same system of rush as we do and that the school endorsed the fraternity system because of this (rush before school begins) and the scholastic aspect of the fraternities. There is a direct correlation, he said, between MIT and Davidson in that both have shown the fraternity averages to be higher than the all-men’s average.)
      4. As a side note, it may even be advantageous to put rush entirely before classes start to keep it out of the academic year entirely. This could mean that only those freshmen who want to participate in rush would come to school early. Orientation week could follow the rush week, for example, and thus de-emphasize fraternities.
   B. General Points for Maintaining the Present System:
      1. National fraternities provide incentive for and disciplinary control of their respective fraternities with regard to social probation, academic probation, scholarship requirements, etc. Though admittedly not perfect, national controls are a better influence than administrative controls over the local clubs would be.
      2. Fraternity loyalty becomes college loyalty when a student becomes an alumnus, i.e., from the 1963 issue of “The Rattle” of Theta Chi brought out by the Interfraternity Research and Advisory Council Bulletin comes this note: “By reason of a grant from the Carnegie Foundation, George F. Baughman, Vice President and Treasurer of New York University, spent four months studying the fraternity situation at the national level. Shortly afterward 28 executive secretaries of leading national fraternities met with him.

QUIPS AND CRANKS

COLEMAN
A Memphis, Tenn. junior, Woody Coleman served as Quips and Cranks honoraries editor for the past year. An SAE, Coleman is a member of APO service fraternity and of the Business-Economics Association.

The purpose of Quips and Cranks is to present the Davidson experience as accurately and vividly as possible. In order to do this I would actively recruit the most creative minds on campus to help in sensing and expressing this experience. In unifying and channeling the three main parts of the yearbook (copy, theme, and pictures) toward this goal, I would exercise care to avoid allowing any of the three to exist for its own sake. Copy in particular would be directed toward the expression of Davidson life rather than merely art for art's sake.

In order to increase the number of pages and the budget for photography, particularly color, I would increase efforts to expand advertising. Finally, the annual needs to give more emphasis to the unorganized activities of students—the things other than clubs, meetings, and classes—that are such an important part of our life at Davidson. With such changes Quips and Cranks can better fulfill its purpose of presenting the experience of the student.

SNIDER
Arnie Snider, a Salisbury junior, has served as Quips and Cranks fraternities editor this year and sports editor last year. Snider is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and has served on the Student Council for the past two years.

Quips & Cranks is unique because it is comparable in size to annuals of schools which have a much larger student body and a wider range of extracurriculars. Because of its size then, Quips and Cranks leaves room for creativity which is lacking or minimized in many university annuals. I propose to take advantage of this opportunity for creativity by adding staff members who would work exclusively on getting high quality, informal pictures, as well as exceptional color pictures.

The annual is not the place to criticize or editorialize. It is the lasting publication portraying life at Davidson and it should capture the best of every aspect of campus life. Along that same line, I feel that the copy which sets the tone of the yearbook should include certainly some of the problems, drudgery, etc. of the student, but should not emphasize this to the exclusion of the more positive and agreeable aspects of the “Davidson experience.”

The editor should take advantage of the originality of his staff members. I propose to allow staff members a good deal of freedom in their respective sections, for I feel that the editor should organize, direct, and coordinate, but should not have to personally decide all questions that arise. This platform is very general primarily because it is hard at this time to tell you anything about next year’s annual that would not be subject to change. Similarly, I can neither agree nor disagree with the changes made in this year’s book which is yet to be distributed or discussed. I base my candidacy on two years of previous work on Quips & Cranks as Sports Editor last year and as Fraternities Editor this year. In addition to work on Quips & Cranks, I acted as co-editor of the yearbook in high school. From this experience, I feel I have gained at least a workable knowledge of yearbook procedures and I hope you will give me the opportunity to apply this experience.Pointed out that New York University had concluded that building a strong fraternity system was the most logical thing to do in order to develop a feeling of lasting loyalty to the university and at the same time develop more of a residential undergraduate student body. The desirability of this was pointed out because the fraternity membership at N.Y.U., consisting of only 4% of the total alumni body, nevertheless, has been responsible for 36% of the annual Alumni Gift. While this does not pertain to Davidson College per se, I feel that it warrants considerable correlation.

3. Student morale is an undeniable force which influences all phases—academic, athletic, intellectual, social—of a college’s life. Morale is a product of the students themselves and while it can be influenced by an administration, it is something that must come from within the student body itself. Davidson College, by virtue of location, nature, and male composition, quite unavoidably provides certain obstacles to the quality of student morale. Yet I feel that the fraternity system deserves a large share of credit for the good morale of men that form the welded unity which pervades all phases of student life. By virtue of location and all-male composition the college itself cannot easily provide men with adequate social outlets. Because of its size the college cannot provide constant or sufficient opportunities for students to satisfy non-academic interests or needs. The system does provide for satisfaction of social and other non-academic needs for a large majority of the college's men. It provides for the expression of leadership and a sense of participation for many men who would otherwise be denied this outlet. Though admittedly not on a grand scale, it also provides transportation and communication for other non-academic interests. Most important, the existing fraternity system provides real communication within the student body. Men of similar but not identical ideals grouped together offer an opportunity for expression and communication that would otherwise be impossible.

1. While the above-stated ideas are in support of the present system, without change, there are certain undeniable evils within the system. Thus, in order to correct these in some way, the following are proposed solutions to help the present situations:

1. A campus-wide social committee be set up to plan and carry out all major social functions for the entire student body, and a fixed social fee be charged to all students and that the funds from this fee be allocated to the campus-wide social committee and College Union for the financing of social activities and entertainment. (This has already received unanimous approval of the committee). (This would remove some of the social influence of the fraternity system and cause fraternities to justify their existence.)

FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1965

Platforms For Magazine, Annual Editors

SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS

VICK

Charlie Vick, a sophomore from Atlanta, Ga., served as Pranks editor of Scripts 'n Pranks this year. As a freshman, he served as staff writer. A philosophy major, Vick is a member of Sigma Upsilon writing fraternity. The S'nP began as a campus magazine. It included humor, poetry, and prose pieces of a more serious nature. There is a current trend toward the completely humorous magazine. I am all for a humor magazine. However, in the last series of issues the humor was either poor, stolen, or esoteric. There must be some way to give the magazine more substance, better humor, and broader appeal. The reaction to the current, completely humorous, magazine by visitors to the campus, students, and faculty seems to be one of pity rather than of interest or laughter. For a platform, the best I can do is list some ideas I have been working on and discussing with students, faculty, and publishers. The format would be changed, including a smaller page size, book paper (like the College Catalogue), a pictorial insert, a standard cover, and a length increase to the fifty-page range. The spectrum of articles would include humor of a hopefully higher quality, short stories, poems, and other faculty or non-student contributions. The organizational aspect, now virtually non-existent, would be defined and functional. In place of the present "system" there would be an editorial advisory board with regular meetings including both students and faculty. The staff would receive definite rather than haphazard assignments. The magazine would still be the students’ publication, yet additional material and creative thinking would most certainly add to the magazine's quality and, therefore, reputation. Humor would, of course, be a part of the S'nP yet the quality of the humor must improve. Other student writings and articles of interest should be included as the past issues have shown the completely humorous leaflet concept to be lacking. Ches R. Cat, the croquet match, and that other S'nP joke, the magazine itself, seem rather unfeasible, but a larger more diversified S'nP perhaps deserves a try.

2. No summer rush of any type will be allowed. This includes all correspondence from fraternity men in official positions, fraternity rush parties, and fraternity publications prior to a freshman's entrance in September. The I.F.C. would be responsible for informing the incoming men of the system and the school orientation would further explain this, with pros and cons. (In this way fraternities can be de-emphasized in the eyes of freshmen).

3. Allow for expanded Union facilities to make a better place for those who are not members of the Greek system, i.e., more T.V.'s, card rooms, etc.

4. Lingle Manor be made into a campus club with full facilities for board and social orientation for those non-fraternity men who wish to join. (If this "eating club" idea grows, allow for expanded facilities in the nature of an additional house or houses).

5. Allow independents and/or Lingle Manor to participate in all campus functions with fraternities, i.e., homecoming display, homecoming queen, intramurals, etc.

6. Allow all freshmen who maintain a 1.5 average to have cars on campus. (It is believed that this would provide a needed asset of transportation to all men, fraternity or non-fraternity, for group or individual use). It may also be possible to purchase or rent a bus for student use.

7. Maintain a Fraternity Evaluation Committee with those members now residing and will be here next year plus additional men selected by the president of the student body. This would enable evaluation and changes as the cause arises.

CONCLUSION

While these proposed suggestions will not completely eliminate all existing problems, it will lessen considerably most of them and enable a social life for those both in and out of the system. While no plan is perfect, the above will enable gradual changes that are necessary to develop. If the need and cause warrant, the Fraternity Evaluation Committee can suggest such changes that appear necessary. It is believed that many of the above will lessen the influence of the fraternity system and make college life at Davidson more beneficial without drastic change. While I have listed only a few reasons for maintaining the present rush system and fraternity situation, the condition may still warrant a change in this set-up. I bring to mind only that the present system serves for at least 75% of the student body, and for the school to assume this role, the physical plant at present would be inadequate and the changes both long and expensive. This is not to say that there might not be necessary changes, but that consideration be given to the thought that until the college has facilities (T.V.'s, social parlors, card rooms, easy chairs, etc.) to accommodate a change, a change for delayed rush should be carefully thought out and problems eliminated before exposure of students to it. With all this in mind, the proposals made, I feel, will greatly increase the social enjoyment of most of the student body, both in and out of fraternities, and make life at Davidson College better.

Respectfully,

ED. HASELDEN