PAGE FOUR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1965

A FRIEND REFLECTS

Whisnant Sees Value Of ‘Lunatic’s’ Poetry

MRS. CHARLEEN WHISNANT Expounds On Pound

Lamented Mrs. Whisnant of her college days, “At Meredith and then at UNC, everyone we talked about was dead.” Judging
from her own remarks, the campus visitor settled on an interest in Ezra Pound largely because he had not expired.
On a hasty decision, young Charleen journeyed with a box of candy to Washington, D.C. to get a first-hand look
at Pound. By way of explanation she noted, “My Baptist momma used to say, ‘When you visit the sick or
the crazy you take candy.’” Charleen made note of the fact that Pound was in a ward of sex criminals,
a fact which detracted somewhat from her peace of mind. Before Mrs. Dorothy Pound arrived, she had been offered and
had nervously accepted a peanut butter-fig sandwich.

Mrs. Whisnant digressed from her personal narrative to give Pound’s biographical background. After firmly establishing his reputation as a man
of letters, she noted, he became interested in economics. He decided, after observation and reading, that the world’s problems could
be placed at the feet of usury and usury, of course, at the feet of the Jews. Pound became interested
in Mussolini and made broadcasts from Rome attacking the dangers of the New Deal. He was declared persona non grata
by the United States and at the conclusion of the war was confined in a cage in one corner of
a prisoner of war camp for three months. Broken by this ordeal the poet was declared “unfit for trial” and
confined to an asylum. Always a patron of young artists, Pound maintained some five or six talented young people while
thus confined: he was constantly visited by respected men of letters... and Charleen. Esquire took up Pound's defense and finally
in 1958, he was released and cleared of treason. Deciding to go back to Italy, he invited Charleen to accompany
him. But as she related it, “I was 14 months pregnant at the time and it was out of the
question...” Pound now lives in an Italian castle with his daughter.

And as for Charleen Whisnant? Mrs. Whisnant presently edits a literary magazine called the Red Clay Reader (“$3 the copy
— dirt cheap”) and published by the Southern Review, a non-profit organization. Says the editor, “We wanted a place to
show off the quantity and quality of this (Southern) new writing and it also seemed high time to give an
argument to William Faulkner’s myth that the South is forever stunted by an unredeemable guilt.”

Davidson’s 18th annual Fine Arts Festival features variety tied together only by a theme of “The Poetic Vision,” Dr. Tom
Clark, chairman of the festival committee, announced.

PRAGUE CHAMBER ORCHESTRA WILL PERFORM WITHOUT CONDUCTOR

Czech Music Ensemble Will Perform Monday

The Prague Chamber Orchestra, composed of 36 virtuoso musicians, who perform without a conductor, will appear Monday night at 8:15
in Chambers Auditorium. Founded in 1951 under the guidance of Vaclav Talich, noted Czechoslovakian musician, the Prague Chamber Orchestra is
making its first American tour this season. It has performed throughout Europe, America, and England. The famed ensemble will be
heard in a diversified program comprised of the “Overture” to the Marriage of Figaro by Mozart, the Honegger “Symphony No.
2 for Strings and Trumpet,” the “Classical” Symphony of Prokofiev and two symphonies by eighteenth-century Czech composers, “Symphony in C
Major” by Josef Mysliveček and “Symphony in D Major” by Jan Václav Voříšek. Musical America says of the conductorless orchestra
that “the group not only stays together, but displays at the same time a sensitivity to shifting rhythms, phrasing and
balance.” There will be no reserved seats for this performance. The program is open to the public and $1 for
student dates.

Dramatists Ready ‘Carnival’

By DAVID COFFEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

Thieves’ Carnival, a whimsical comedy by the contemporary French playwright Jean Anouilh, will be presented next week by the Drama
Department. Performances are scheduled Thursday and Friday, Feb. 18 and 19, at 8:15 p.m., and on Saturday, Feb. 20, at
3 p.m. Rupert Barber, chairman of the Drama Department, says the play is totally different from many of Anouilh's other
plays. “Anouilh writes in two entirely different styles,” Barber says, “a ‘rose’ or light style, and a ‘noire’ or serious
style. The Lark, an Anouilh play presented here last Spring by Le Treteau de Paris, is an example of his
‘noire’ style. Thieves’ Carnival, however, represents the opposite style; it is as light...

SERIES OF LECTURES

U. Va. Professor To Relate Math Theory

Professor Truman Botts, noted mathematician from the University of Virginia, will visit Davidson Wednesday, as a Visiting Lecturer in a
program sponsored by the Mathematical Association of America. At 4 p.m. Wednesday in Dana Science Building, Botts will deliver the
first in a series of three lectures. The remaining two lectures will be held in room 227 Chambers Building at
9:20 and 11 Thursday morning. His talks will touch upon such subjects as number theory, finite planes, Latin squares, probability,
and the Lebesgue Integral. After receiving his PhD from the University of Virginia, Botts served four years in communication intelligence
work in the Navy. Since then he has taught at the University of Delaware and the University of Virginia. He
has been a Ford Foundation Fellow, a Visiting Professor at the University of Puerto Rico, and a member of SMSG
summer writing teams. He is co-author with E. J. McShane of Real Analysis.

Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and airy as a French souffle. The frolic takes place on the French Riviera and is filled with masquerades, mistaken
identities, and hilarious situations that accompany both. Roles in the production have been given to members of the student body
and college community: Mrs. J. S. Winkler will play Lady Hurf, a bored English aristocrat ready for adventure. Mrs. Tom
Stevens and Mrs. Don Campbell will be Lady Hurf's two young nieces and Mrs. Sterling Martin will be their nursemaid.
Dave McCorkle, Pete Myers, and Dennie Phillips will portray three blundering thieves, Gus, Hector, and Peterbono. Other students in the
presentation will be Jon Miller, Rawley Turner, Marvin Sparrow, Van Quinn, Ted Glusman, and Furman Wallace. Howard Bryant, assisted by
Bill Staples, is in charge of constructing the scenery for the play. For the first time in recent years, all
the furniture is being made for the production by the stage crew. Original music for the play, composed by Prof.
David Richey, will be performed by Dick Vines, Marc Hanson, and Dave Hoag. Mrs. Barber is heading the costume committee.
It has been decided to place the play in the year 1911, in order to take advantage of the hobble
skirts of that period.

REHEARSAL FOR ‘THIEVES CARNIVAL’ Dennis Phillips, David McCorkle, Mrs. Sterling Martin, and Pete Myers in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the
Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

LAKESIDE INN Fish (Under New Management) “We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in
semi-private or private parties.” Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater Tuesday through Saturday For reservations: Call

Festival Interpreted As The ‘Poetic Vision’ Clark explained that the theme has been broadly interpreted in the belief that every
true artist has something akin to a poetic vision. In this year’s Festival are nearly all the fine arts, including
poetry, music, drama, painting, and cinema. Reports Clark, “The idea of the Festival is to concentrate student attention on the
various events sponsored by the Fine Arts Department.” The Festival began Monday with a chapel talk by Charleen Whisnant, Charlotte
poet and confidante of Ezra Pound. The only other chapel speech included in the series will be Dr. Lesley Frost’s
appearance on Feb. 25. Miss Frost is the daughter of the late Robert Frost, and is also a poet in
her own right. Also included in the Festival will be the Drama Department’s production of Jean Anouilh’s comedy, Thieves’ Carnival,
on Feb. 18, 19, and 20. The Film Friends Committee will also present three classic movies, D. W. Griffith's Birth
of a Nation on Feb. 22 and 23, Rene Claire's A Nous Le Liberte on March 9 and 10, and
Eisenstein's Alexander Nevsky on March 23 and 24. Musical events include Wilmer Welsh’s organ recital in the College Church on
Feb. 14, a concert by Evelyn McGarrity, soprano, on March 5, and another organ recital on March 19, presented by
Ralph Kneerean, a Czech immigrant. Welsh and Dr. Grier Williams will present a joint recital on March 12 featuring organ,
harpsichord, and trumpet. A specially organized Davidson Chamber Orchestra will be presented in concert on March 21. Several special art
exhibits have also been arranged for presentation during March and April. A selection of paintings and prints by Douglas Houchens
of the Art Department and Dabney Stuart, class of 1900, will be shown. Also exhibited will be artworks by two
young American artists, Lyder Fredrickson and Pierre Jacquemon.

Professor Welsh In Recital Sunday Wilmer H. Welsh, associate professor of music and college organist, will present an organ recital
Sunday at 4 p.m. in the College Church. The program is presented free of charge and the public is invited.
Welsh will play the “Chaconne in E minor” by Buxtehude, three early English pieces by Martin Peerson and Thomas Arne,
Bach's “Prelude and Fugue in D Major,” “Star of Evening” by Louis Vierne, Paul Hindemith's “Sonata I” and “Elevation” from
the Mass for the Convents by Francois Couperin le Grand. The first performance of a “Partita” on Now Thank We
All Our God by Welsh will be featured. It consists of the chorale melody, an allemande, courante, march, air, musette,
and concludes with a gigue fugue with the chorale. Welsh is the composer of a cantata commissioned by Winthrop College
entitled “Faith and the Sewing Circle,” a “Requiem,” and several organ compositions. Welsh received his training and degrees at Peabody
Conservatory and Johns Hopkins University and taught at Hood College in Maryland and Winthrop College in Rock Hill before joining
the Davidson College music faculty in 1963.

Barber has announced that the next production of the Drama Department, to be presented in May, will be two plays
by Eugene Ionesco from the recent “theater of the absurd” movement, The Chairs, and The Bald Soprano.

OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK

THIS SUMMER If you need to earn money, the world’s largest ice cream specialties manufacturer will hold on-campus interviews on
this date. REGISTER NOW! Your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer will set up an interview schedule for you.
If you're selected, your job is reserved until school closes. And you may start work as early as April 1st.
EARNINGS ARE BIG WITH GOOD HUMOR Of the students working six or more weeks last summer: 2 out of 3
earned $110 or more a week 1 out of 2 earned $118 or more a week 1 out of 4
earned $133 or more a week

HOW TO QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW 1. Minimum age, 18 2. Have a valid driver's license in the state you'll be
working, and be able to drive a “stick” transmission. 3. Pass a physical examination.

Equal Opportunity Employer
