PAGE SIX

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HERE FOR ONE SEMESTER

Indian Professor Visits

(Staff Photo by Smith)

DR. SAMUEL P. ADINARAYAN Finds Good Student-Teacher Relationship Here

Drawing To Assignment Of Rooms

With the major portion of the rooms still to be assigned, the room reservation schedule goes into its final week. Drawings for single rooms and available three-man suites were made earlier this week. “Monday the rising seniors will pick those double rooms that have not already been retained by their present occupants,” according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories. On the day of the drawings, beginning at 7:30, both roommates will present room reservation cards and sign up for rooms in the order of numbers drawn. If a student is absent from the campus, his roommate must present both cards to make a reservation.

Hall counselors in East are Thom Blair and Britt Snider, first floor; Dick Little and Dick Short, second floor; Gary DeVane and Andy Little, third floor; Don Carroll and Chris Hawk, fourth floor; and Bill Council, basement. In Cannon, the counselors will include Gene Shepherd and Jesse Sims, first floor; Eric Nichols and Barry St. Clair, second floor; John Fagg and Bill Rikard, third floor; David Purnell and Jim Shackleford, fourth floor; and John Gresham, basement. In Watts are Tom Peaden and Neville Patterson, third floor; and Joe Jelks and Wade Boatwright, fourth floor.

Library Receives Civil War Volumes

Davidson's library has received a gift of about 50 volumes from the Civil War library of the late Andrew Brown, ‘17, of Northport, Ala. Library Director Chalmers Davidson announced today. The 50-odd volumes were selected from a list of more than 130 titles which was submitted to the library for consideration by the Brown family. Included among the new acquisitions are a complete collection of Civil War History magazine as well as Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, and Annals of the War by Leading Participants Both North and South.

“The collection is of very high quality,” commented Dr. Davidson. “Mr. Brown obviously selected like a college professor as most of what ‘belongs’ in a first-rate Civil War Library was there.”

Chaplain To Speak In Sunday Vespers

College Chaplain Will Terry has announced that the Charlotte Girls’ Chorale will appear as a special feature for this Sunday’s vespers service. Terry, who will conduct the service, will also speak.

By RICK ALTEMOSE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Compared to my experiences ten years ago in another liberal arts college, I find the American student more alive today to international problems and currents,” said Dr. Samuel P. Adinarayan, visiting professor of psychology from Madras, India.

“I feel that this new awareness is very encouraging,” he continued. “There should be more emphasis on Eastern cultures and languages. There should, perhaps, be a chair of Eastern culture here.”

Commenting on life at Davidson, he said, “I have been impressed with the very large amount of interest students have shown in India and their problems and very happy with the student-teacher relationship. It is not so formal as found in other colleges in the United States.”

“I am very favorably impressed by the strides made in the color problem,” he continued, while adding, “...America’s racial problems are tremendously exaggerated in the foreign press which tends to portray only the lurid incidents, such as the affair in Birmingham.”

He continued, “Since America is entering into other fields (cultural, etc.) abroad, it can’t afford to have this problem. It provides a ‘handle’ for its enemies to play up.”

Furthermore, he added, “The more constructive aspects of the race situation are not receiving enough publicity. This fact is hurting America’s image in India and elsewhere.”

Before coming to Davidson this semester, Adinarayan was dean of the Faculty of Arts and head of the psychology department of Annamalai University in South India.

IMPROPER PUBLICITY

Professor Adinarayan has spent much of his life studying the problem of prejudice. After earning four degrees, including the doctorate, from Madras Christian College in India and an M.A. with distinction from University College, London, he engaged in research work at Oxford.

Recommended by President Nathan Pusey of Harvard, he taught a year at Lawrence College in Wisconsin on a Fulbright Travel Grant. In addition, he was invited to Geneva by the World Council of Churches to attend a special committee on race relations.

Adinarayan's books in the field of racial problems include The Case for Color, a psychological study of some of the aspects of color prejudice; What is Behind Race Prejudice?; and Color Prejudice in India.

LEADING PSYCHOLOGIST

One of the leading psychologists in India and president of the Indian Academy of Applied Psychology, Adinarayan’s interests range far beyond the field of color prejudice.

The visiting professor has written several widely used psychology textbooks. Included among these are The Human Mind and Social Psychology. In addition, he has had over 20 short stories published in some of the leading magazines of India.

A Hindu by birth and a Christian by conversion, Professor Adinarayan also is interested in the interpretation of Christianity in the light of ancient Hindu culture. He noted, “Certain aspects of Christianity, as for example the mendicant groups and certain forms of prayer, take on new meaning when examined in the light of the Indian culture in which they originated.”

RELIGIOUS WORKS

Adinarayan is the author of several religious works: among them, “Does God Exist,”

(Staff Photo by Tine)

DAVID MESCHAN AND BILL COUNCIL Debate The Issues At Tuesday Night Forum

Meschan Plans Action

David Meschan, defeated in the race for Student Body president, issued the following statement Wednesday night:

“I would like to take this opportunity, on the evening following the election, to express:

“First, my congratulations to Bill and best wishes for a successful and productive year.

“Secondly, my sincere thanks to those who rendered me their support during the election; it was very much appreciated.

“Third, and I think most important, that I still plan to compile, with the help of others, the ‘profraternity report’ I spoke of in chapel. I have stated why I feel such a report is necessary, and my opinion has not changed.

“It is my desire to have it completed by March 27 in order that it may supplement the proposals which the IFC representatives and the fraternity presidents will be making. If there are any who feel that they have information which would be of benefit, would they please contact me at Box 1119, Davidson.”

Bryson Quits Job As Cafeteria Head

Harry R. Bryson, Jr., employed by the Slater Corporation as manager of the Union Cafeteria, has resigned. William Shoyer has been sent from the regional Slater office in Atlanta as a temporary replacement. Shoyer explained that he is employed to fill vacancies like this until Slater can arrange to have a new man sent for the position. He was uncertain as to how long it would take to replace Bryson. When asked if he knew why Bryson had resigned, he had no idea. Several other employees also have resigned.(He concluded in the affirmative.) Asked what he thought of Davidson students, Adinarayan replied, “I am much impressed by the general intellectual caliber, academic standards, and enthusiasm shown by Davidson students. I find tremendous interest in Indian affairs.” Apathy? “Why no, I found much more apathy at Lawrence College.”

FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1965

Workman Studying Special Counseling

Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology, has begun a one-semester leave of absence, leaving a vacancy in the department which Dr. Samuel P. Adinarayan is filling as visiting professor. During his sabbatical, Workman is investigating counseling programs at various colleges and universities, with special emphasis on counseling of emotionally disturbed children. Workman's itinerary includes Emory University, University of Florida, and Tulane University. The remainder of his leave will be spent at the University of California at Berkeley, scene of recent student riots. Workman came to Davidson in 1951 from Emory University, where he had served as associate professor of psychology. He received his BA, MA, and BD at Emory. He received his PhD from the University of Chicago.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
- Bernard Kelton
- E. E. Brown
- Driesell
- Burts
- Epes
- Currie
- Fraley
- Daggy
- Gable
- Gil
- Scott
- Griffin
- Swicord
- Lilly
- L. White
- Mitchell
- Young

Vespers Attendance Studied

The possibility of receiving vespers attendance credit for attending church in another town is currently being discussed by the faculty Religious Life Committee as part of an extensive study of student religious life. A report on findings will be issued by the committee sometime after spring vacation. The standing committee, appointed by President D. Grier Martin, is composed of members of the faculty and student body, with Chaplain Will Terry serving as chairman. Terry described the committee’s work as “discussing the religious program of Davidson College per se, not individual elements in it, but the entire scope of the program.” The committee hopes to find the “aims and goals” of a religious program, and the best means of implementing them.

CATHOLIC STUDENTS

Prompted by the request of several Roman Catholic students at Davidson, the committee is discussing whether Catholic students should be allowed to receive vespers attendance credit for attending Mass in Mooresville. More generally, the committee, which meets at least every other week, will be discussing whether attendance at any church should be acceptable to fulfill the vespers attendance requirement. The role of chapels in a religious program and required attendance at such programs will also be discussed by the committee during its next few sessions. A suggestion often made by students at Davidson of limiting chapel to two programs per week will also be brought up. Serving along with Terry on the committee are Dr. D. D. Rhodes, Dr. L. B. Schenck, Prof. Donald Plott, President Martin, Dean Richard C. Burts, Rev. Curtis Harper, Lanier Burns, Jesse Simms, and Neil McBryde.

Another committee, organized by the YMCA and headed by Bill Rule, chairman of the spiritual life area of the YMCA, is also discussing the influences of religious life upon students. This committee, comprised of Rule, Burns, Van Quinn, Charlie Raynal, Dr. S. D. Maloney, and several ministers, is discussing some of the same problems concerning chapel and vespers. Meeting once a week, the group plans to submit a report of their findings to the faculty Religious Life Committee upon return from spring break. Burns, president of the YMCA and a member of the committee, commented that although this Y committee has no power per se, their recommendations will probably be looked upon with interest by the faculty committee because of the Y committee’s close contact with the students and wide representation of opinion.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

If your roommate says the Bell System helped invent hi-fi, stereo, and talking movies, don’t bet. You'll lose. In the course of their studies of the nature of sound, Bell System scientists have been able to make significant contributions to all three forms of entertainment. You might say that it was because the discoveries were there to be discovered by the first explorers to come down the trail. When the century was still young, we realized that if the telephone were to come up to its potential, the nature of sound had to be much better understood than it was then. This led to the largest, most comprehensive study of sound ever undertaken by anyone. To capture sound for study, Bell Telephone Laboratories developed the first electronic recorder for phonograph discs. For the first time, performers recorded into microphones. Then, in 1925, Bell Labs perfected an electronic system that synchronized sound and action on movie film. The talkies were born. To get better sound reproduction, they started experimenting in 1933 with ways to separate high and low frequencies to prevent distortion. The result was a single-groove, multi-channel disc—the basis of today’s stereophonic industry. Nevertheless, these contributions were by-products of the real effort, which was to make telephone service better. We are proud, of course, that they helped build and improve whole industries. But we're prouder of the sound qualities in the telephone of today. If you'd like to do business or engineering work you're really proud of, we'd like to talk to you.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

LAKESIDE INN Fish (Under New Management)
“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.”
Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater
Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m. on...
For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711