FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1965
By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

WELL, LITTLE GIRL

So you made it back again, little girl? And you get to watch another dance weekend slide by, through those
big, bleary eyes sunk deeply into an aching head. Or maybe it’s your first time. Your date has herded you
and your bus-load of luggage up the back stairs of Belk, told you all about how great we are here,
and given you a guided tour of such scenic spots as his PO box or the place where Woodrow Wilson
spat out of the window of Eumenean Hall. And now chances are:
1. You’re snowed out of your mind — if you’re a high schoolie or a freshman or from Queens, or...
2. You're sick of Davidson and your date— if you’re a woman of the world, plus...
3. You're wondering what the heck all this is doing in a sports column.

Sometimes there's just nothing good about being a sports editor—like now for instance. Last weekend was a disaster, to be
cheerful about it. And who wants to read or write about disasters, that is, if they happened to you. Maybe
I should put a black border around this page—the Little-led thinclads lost again, the fabulous Foglemen were flattened and Homer
Smith’s Cinderella gridiron steamroller turned into a temporary pumpkin. So at any rate I don’t write about cross country, soccer
or football. And that pretty well kills the spectator sports.

But, I’m convinced that somewhere under all the skirts and perfume and lacy little frills that Homecoming brings, there’s some
sport to be uncovered. You have to be pretty narrow-minded to limit sports to spectator affairs. And whether you know
it or not, Date, it takes quite an athlete to put up with you for a weekend. He has to
be a weight lifter to get you moved in here, a track star to put up with all the running
around showing you things and a football expert to explain to you why there are H-shaped poles at each end
of a lined-off field between two sets of bleachers.

What could be more sporting than wrestling on the lower soccer field or in the quiet of a parking lot
away from the blaring noise of a combo party? No, these aren’t spectator sports, after all how many spectators can
you squeeze into a car? But you'll probably never see a quarterback with sneakier moves than a Davidson scholar-athlete, or
a boxer with faster hands than you, his date. We have to practice for this weekend, you know? It doesn’t
just fall into place naturally. Lifting footlockers, running laps around Chambers, poring over football brochures, squeezing pillows, doing tongue push-ups
and muttering all sorts of athletic sweet nothings as “sugar-dumpling,” “honey-bunch” and “lambie-chop” in our little spare time, like walking
to the head.

At any rate, ol’ sport, you’re here, your first Davidson weekend. Maybe if you play the game as well as
the girl who’s staying in the dorm with you, you can make it down again, like she did. And then
like her, you can knowingly sit back and watch another dance weekend slide by through bleary eyes and an aching
head.

(Staff Photo by Thel)

SMITH WHISPERS PRAYER TO JACOBSEN But Fate Is Sealed In 41-7 Loss

46 YARDS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

’Cats To Seek Comeback
PAGE FIVE
Over Underrated Keydets
By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow afternoon Coach Homer Smith sends his ’Cats against one of the toughest teams in the conference, the Keydets of
VMI. The teams will take the field at 2 p.m., before a capacity Homecoming crowd in Richardson stadium. Both teams
desperately need the victory. The Keydets are winless after five games. Victory for the ‘Cats would compensate for last week's
humiliation at the hands of William and Mary and clinch the third place conference slot. Added Coach Smith, “If we
can take VMI, Davidson will become a Southern Conference powerhouse.” Last year's contest saw the Keydets wallop the ‘Cats 35-0.
VMI has trounced Davidson 26 times in 42 encounters. Davidson has not beaten VMI since 1953.

PER PUNT

Caldwell Shines In
By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“I just keep my eye on the ball, and don't worry about the rushing linemen.” Thus Tommy Caldwell describes the
secret of his punting success. Success is indeed the only word for Caldwell’s kicking. After averaging a respectable 39 yards
a try in the first three games, he provided one of Davidson's few bright spots against William and Mary last
week by averaging 46 yards per kick. Caldwell's style of punting has been described as awkward due to the fact
that he drops the ball from chest height instead of from the waist. “I seem to get better height on
my kick with a longer drop,” he explained. He went on to say that Coaches Homer Smith and Ken Blair,
both of whom punted for their college teams, have been working with him to get more height on his kicks.
“My kick is natural,” he added, “and I'm not going to sacrifice height or distance just for style.” Caldwell, a
former East Mecklenburg ace, has been punting since he began his football career in the eighth grade. After playing halfback
and tailback in high school, he earned a slot on the first defensive unit this year. Caldwell holds down the
right interceptor position and is primarily responsible for the deep-out zone on a pass. “Our basic defenses allow the interceptor
to play his man more aggressively,” he pointed out. As a result he has picked off two of his opponents'
passes so far this year. “The key to our defense,” he added, “is hustle and pursuit. When a runner gets
tackled, four or five guys should be on top of him.”

The ‘Cats presently share the third place conference slot with William and Mary. The home team enters the game tomorrow
with a 3-1 record, having blanked Presbyterian, Furman, and the Citadel. Far down the standing chart in seventh place lies
winless VMI. However, this comparison is deceptive. The Keydets have tangled with some of the area's toughest teams, including William
and Mary, Army, George Washington and Virginia.

According to Coach Smith, “This is a tough strong team. Physically, they are stronger than William and Mary. This team
had Army beaten until the final moments of the game. VMI literally beat Virginia until the fourth quarter. They also
scored 21 points against William and Mary.” Continued Coach Smith, “VMI is a hard-nosed team. They don’t use much finesse.
We'll just have to outhit them.” Anchoring the Keydet line will be All Southern Conference tackle John Turner; a 220
pound senior letterman. VMI's line boasts four returning lettermen and averages 210 pounds per man. Coordinating the Keydet attack will
be junior quarterback Hill Ellet. A 175 pound letterman, Ellet passed for 100 yards against Southern Mississippi.

Defeat

The previously unbeaten Wildcats of Davidson suffered their first defeat Saturday afternoon at the hands of William and Mary. Until
that time the 'Cats had handled their first three opponents with relative ease, allowing none of them to score. However,
disaster struck in the form of a 41-7 debacle. When asked about the game lastSaturday, Coach Homer Smith said, “We
don’t have a single excuse.” Davidson got behind early and, “We pressed to try to catch up and got into
deeper trouble. We could have easily held the score down—I take the blame for the high total—but we men are
in on it, not just one.” A sophomore from Charlotte, Caldwell intends to major in history. Although not absolutely certain
about his plans for the future, he indicated that he will probably attend seminary after leaving Davidson. Speaking of things
past and things to come, Caldwell said, “William and Mary just played a near perfect game. I don’t think it
hurt our spirit much—maybe it helped. We don’t play to try to merely keep the score low, but to go
for the interception.”

TOMMY CALDWELL
Sophomore Punter

Harriers Stumble In Two

Davidson's cross country team was unsuccessful in two more meets this week, losing to a strong Furman team, 15-44 and
to St. Andrews, 26-29. The Purple Paladin runners took the first five places here Friday with Bill Daniel and Skip
Poole leading the charge in times of 21:28 and 21:31 respectively. Davidson’s Andy Little took sixth place, finishing in 22:22.
On Tuesday the Wildcats placed much better but still fell three points short of St. Andrews’ distance running in Laurinburg.
“The course was very flat and tiring to run,” commented Little, consistently the team’s anchor man, who finished second with
a time of 21:48 behind St. Andrews’ Jim Smith. Tuesday the Cross Country men will entertain VMI, which is rated
highly, even though put down easily last week by a powerful William and Mary team.

Fogleman Blanked By Duke

Blanked 6-0 by a powerful Duke soccer squad Friday, Davidson’s booters bounced back Tuesday to edge St. Andrews 4-2. Coach
Harry Fogleman pointed out there were many factors working against us in the Duke game. “We had to leave four
boys at home, two of them starters. We ran into a couple of key injuries and just didn’t get the
breaks.” He added that for the first five minutes, the ’Cats controlled the ball, barely missing two or three shots
at the goal. Juergen Schroder felt, “We were unlucky. The field was short and small. They were taller and controlled
the head game. If we had scored at the start, we could have won.” The turning point in that game
may have come when Schroder, one of the ‘Cats’ chief offensive threats, went up in the air for the ball
and came down in a hole (“They dug it while he was up in the air”), injuring his ankle. Later,
Bobby Lanier was kicked and suffered a painful injury to his hand. Coach Fogleman felt that things could have been
quite different. “Duke played a fine game—they didn’t make any mistakes—but things just didn’t go well. I think we're as
good as they are.” The ’Cats did little to disprove their coach in Tuesday's game. Although the score was close,
4-2, the two St. Andrews goals came on penalty kicks in the second half after Davidson had built a commanding
lead. The game was marred with a number of minor scuffles, two of which led to the questionable penalty kicks.
Spirit remains high despite the loss. George Brown predicted, “We're going to win the rest of them.” Howard Morris, a
'Cat fullback, felt that “all our mistakes were in that one game.” Glenn Hanes summed up the team feeling, saying,
“It was a bad day, not to be repeated.”

W&M Kills Plan Of Perfect Year

It appeared that the ’Cats weren’t the same team as they had been in the first three games. Said Coach
Smith concerning this point, “The significant differences were that we played a much better team than before, and that our
team had not had any hitting during the two-week layoff, due to not wanting to risk injury. The latter factor
unquestionably made a big difference. We didn’t hit nearly as well against William and Mary as we did against the
Citadel.” Coach Smith remarked that the ’Cats had gone back to hitting in practice and would continue to do so.
“There is no other way to win than by matching a team blow for blow,” he said. “We wish we
could play them again and make amends, but we can't. Fortunately, we play VMI, a team much like William and
Mary, this week.”

Sigs, Betas Carry Torch In IMAC Flickerball Action

By LARRY NORFLEET
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This week’s IMAC flickerball action saw the Kappa Sigs still carrying the torch as they remained undefeated by taking three
games. The Sigs still have to meet the Betas, who are the only other undefeated team in the standings. The
Sigs barely held off an ATO rally to overcome the Taus 19-16 to highlight this week's games. The Sigs were
leading 19-9 with six minutes left in the game when the ATO's got a quick safety and a TD. The
Taus started a drive to the end zone but had to give up possession when a fourth down bomb fell
in the end zone out of the reach of the intended receiver. The Betas dropped the Pi Kapps into the
league cellar when they trounced them 47-13. Frank Bass found the way to paydirt clear four times in leading the
winner's attack. The Taus managed to get possession of the ball with forty seconds left but couldn’t produce a score.
“With a little bit of luck, we could have won,” lamented Geoff Birkhead for the ATO cause. The front runners
pulled out another close one over the Sigma Nus 47-6, and to keep from snapping their 54-game winning streak, the
Independents obligingly failed to field a team. The SAE’s gave the Betas a hard time before finally succumbing 12-6. The
Betas looked as if they might make it a runaway when they scored on the first set of downs, however,
the game slowed down for the rest of the half. Minerva’s men notched up a quick one in the third
quarter only to have the Betas rebound to lead 12 to 6. The Taus finally got things rolling to outflick
the Pikas 19-6. Dave Townsend could not lead the Taus to any score in the first half as the Pikas
took a 6-0 lead deep into the third period. Tom Scott, who took over tailback duties in the second half,
finally found Pat Hubbard a favorite target for a Tau tally. In the final two minutes, Scott maneuvered his forces
to two more scores, after Pika stalwarts Bob O'Kelly and Britt Snider were injured. In other action, the Phi Gamms
climbed out of the cellar by wiping out the Sig Eps 32-13. Ted Horne shone for the Fijis as he
caught four TD passes. The SPE's also lost to the SAB’s 27-13. The Pikas pinned the Pi Kapps’ sixth loss
on them by a score of 33-12. This week also saw many postponements as the Sigma Chi-Phi Delt game was
postponed twice along with the Pika-Sigma Nu contest and the battle between the Fijis and the Independents. Placement tests forced
the delays.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
Hub Platters
10 Albums (Stereo & Mono) IN STOCK
Also A Selection of Albums by “MODERN FOLK QUARTET”
STUDENT STORE

SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414
The Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
