FEBRUARY 12, 1965, THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

By DOUG WOODWORTH

Davidson Junior Abroad

A great misconception exists on the two sides of the ocean, and probably the Frenchmen are more guilty than the Americans. The Frenchman's vision of the American student’s carefree life goes so far as to think that every student has an automobile, several hours every day of some sort of sports activity, and very little work or pressure from his actual studies.

WOODWORTH

He bemoans the fact that he does not have the facilities for sports available to him, but even more that if the facilities were available he would not have time to continue with his studies and be “sportif” at the same time; and such a fact is probably true, but I am convinced that this is a result not of the amount of work that the student has, but of the difficulties presented in the organization of the French university and the student’s life.

It remains to be seen just how drastically the student life is going to change toward the end of April and the month of May when the threat of examination presents itself; but from the first of November until that time there is literally no one who suffers from mental exhaustion, nervous breakdowns, or a terrible loss of sleep. The examination is the important thing—a student can stay at home for the rest of the year if he wants to, though there is little cutting on the part of most French students, at least in Montpellier where the classrooms are crowded but not as crowded as in some other universities.

What is it then that occupies so much time for the French student?

SEMESTER

First, there exists a great difference in the number of hours of classes depending on the discipline of the student. The sciences are much more rigorous than the letters. In the first year of most sciences a student is likely to have twenty-five hours of classes a week, whereas in letters he may have as little as seven. But the distribution of these classes is what makes life difficult. Most classes meet one hour a week, and the classes may be distributed throughout the week on any day from eight o'clock in the morning up to eight o'clock at night. What happens so often is that the distribution of classes is not favorable for the student and he is left with long breaks between classes, or even short breaks which can be more annoying considering the fact that the student may live three or four miles from the “Faculte” and there is generally no place provided to study nearby.

Meal time (two times a day most French students provide their own breakfast—what little there is of it) means another ten-minute walk or fifteen-minute bus ride just to get to the restaurant where it is often necessary to stand in line for at least fifteen minutes. What he waits for is not so bad, especially considering the quantity and the price of 1 F 30, or a little more than 30 cents that he pays for each meal.

LACK OF CENTRALITY

Thus, it is in the lack of centrality or the “campus system” that the French student is forced into inefficiency. Many students are, however, against the campus system and the attempts to create it in France, as they fear a separation from the life of the city, fleeing into a closed society of students.

Cleveland Takes Look

By WOODY CLEVELAND

Davidson Junior Abroad

The typical school day of a French student is a mixture of classes, girls, studying, and cafes. Quite contrary to the condition at Davidson, he can proportion his time among these aspects of his life in any way he chooses, since he has very little weekly or monthly academic obligations with only the very impelling necessity to pass the yearly examinations. Furthermore, social clubs and organizations such as our fraternities do not exist, thus leaving the student completely independent and unattached, except possibly to a fiancée or petite amie.

The most convenient meeting place for students are the university restaurants which are quite large and accommodated with cafes, juke boxes, and pinball machines; incidentally, pinball machines are a very popular form of entertainment, and large groups can always be found clustered around a game. French couples usually amuse themselves after supper by going to a movie or to one of the many sidewalk cafes around the center of town, where before the end of the evening large numbers are hovered around tables. The sidewalk cafe is really an interesting and enjoyable form of inexpensive entertainment; by paying one franc (20 cents) for a cup of coffee, one has claimed a table and chair for as long as the night lasts.

On the weekends, second-rate musicians frequently tour the various cafes displaying their talents whether it be guitar, accordion, or voice, and then pass the hat for monetary tokens of appreciation. Saturday night for the students at the University of Montpellier is a very special night, just as it is at Davidson and probably everywhere else. Using cafes for gathering places after supper, the students collect and swarm to the several small and intimate night clubs which are quite descriptively called “caves.” One actually has the sensation of being in a glorified atmospheric cave on account of the low-hanging ceilings and arched walls of stone. On Saturday nights these small caves are overflowing with swinging arms, hips, and legs, as the students gyrate around to American songs; surprisingly enough there are no alcoholic drinks served and very seldom any heavy drinking. On dates, girls are always expected to pay their own way and to meet (Photo by Webb)

What the French student suffers from is his government's control of university education and its tardiness in providing the facilities necessary, but he enjoys a life that is cheap, free from great pressures except for about two months out of each year, and in most cases is more serious toward the education that he is trying to obtain.

WAYNE MIXON

Davidson Junior Abroad

The following articles are presented to create interest and a tingling of inspiration for the would-be Davidson Junior Year Abroad-er, to suggest an answer for the critic who labors under the possible illusion that the 50 shaded-acres at Davidson ALONE can best suffice anyone’s four-year liberal arts education, and to express to the college and its officials a commonly shared gratitude for this opportunity of travel and study by those students in France at this time.

After two years of closely supervised and rigidly controlled book-reading at college, the time is ripe for a student to take the opportunity and assess what he has derived from his completed studies. The student should hope to be able to display more than a mere diploma at the conclusion of four years; he should also hope to defend his college education more convincingly than to claim that in our modern utilitarian society, a certain amount of higher education is necessary in order “to succeed.” IfEducation is to be a growing experience which is influential in the molding of one’s personal life and social status—not just controlling his financial means in later life. The contribution of study abroad is of paramount significance. Travel and study are fatal to prejudices and narrow-mindedness, both of which often hamper and restrict the overall development of an individual’s capacity, and therefore directly bear upon the total benefit to be gained by spending four years in liberal arts study. To advance one’s real understanding further and deeper than mere book-learning alone, one should establish a working supplementary relationship between academic work and personal living experience, explicitly because this relationship inherently recognizes that the enrichment of one will parallel the advancement of the other. Travel and life in a foreign culture bring one face to face with the application of would-be dry and removed academic theories within a new context that readily calls for one’s effort to match the moment with information drawn from the past: for example, in visiting a historical shrine, in seriously questioning foreigners concerning their country's position during the last war, or in just trying to picture the region or town from which a new acquaintance comes. It is precisely this ability to relate one's entire past to the present and this total heightening of awareness in all areas—intellectual, aesthetic, moral, or sensual—that travel and life in a foreign culture develop so well. By definition, a liberal education is to equip and permit one to deal more broadly and generally, penetrating more deeply and well into whatever of his life; it is a viewpoint which thereby makes one’s perspective broaden and be a preface to read life more acutely. If one’s book-learning can be made more meaningful, possibly to live, before the learning-for-the-sake-of-learning comes to an end at graduation, a student might become qualified to bring about such a conclusion to his undergraduate studies that would result in a heretofore unsuspected analyzation of values and reorientation, significantly changing his future life and thereby gaining the fruits of a genuine liberal arts education.

FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Although only half the year is over and the second half promises to be even more active (with Spring and the beach fifteen minutes away), nevertheless, there are some general observations that can be made in addressing the specific situation here at Montpellier. The value from living in a foreign culture is governed to a large extent by one’s facility in the foreign language. If you can't speak a foreign language too well, all the possible preparation in this area will make the adjustment to life in a foreign culture less developed. The practical benefits of a foreign language facility, like passing the language Ph.D. requirement and a larger consciousness and sense of expression in English, are evident. It also carries that vague aesthetic benefit of self-satisfaction derived from being able to read great works “in the original,” and from ordering a meal en français at the local French restaurant in America, or subscribing to French magazines, journals, and newspapers. Facility in a foreign language is a notable factor in being a professor of any subject and of direct importance in a foreign service career. It is this facility in the foreign language which is the most evident and influential benefit derived from life in a foreign country.

CULTURAL BENEFITS

That two fraternity rejects at Davidson have helped lead a Montpellier basketball team into a regional tournament, with a trip to the French nationals at Paris hinging on the outcome, points out that university sports in France do not even receive the attention or spectators that the IMAC does at Davidson. With les Programmes Culturels, however, France offers a satisfying contrast to the creative and expressive atmosphere at Davidson. In Montpellier, an almost unimportant French provincial town many miles from Paris, this season at the large opera house, packed houses have already seen operas like Faust, Rigoletto, Carmen, La Traviata, Werther, and Manon; plays like Corneille’s Horace, Moliere's Les Femmes Savantes, Racine’s Britanicus, Chekov’s Sea Gull; and concerts by touring chamber orchestras from Versailles, Toulouse, Munich, and Hamburg. Often poetry readings honoring modern French poets like Apollinaire and Eluard are presented, and the local museum contains works of Delacroix, Reubens, David, Courbet, and Utrillo, plus special exhibitions from time to time.

NOTED IN PASSING

There are two more points to be noted only in passing. Many of the students over here at this time felt last year before leaving Davidson that the one thing they would really miss and could not do without was our fabulous basketball team; but many have already remarked that it is not only possible to do without such a diversion as big-time basketball, but it has led to a more critical appreciation of itself. The other point concerns the fact that the students over here have appreciated and made use of this occasion to become better friends with each other, not restricted by the superficial fraternity classification system or the ‘zip’ or “flit” categorical considerations which usually determine most close friendships at Davidson. Unfortunately, not everything can be said concerning the study program in France with Davidson students. The twelve students and the professor and his wife would like to offer these pictures and articles as a token of appreciation for the college-sponsored program—THIS, our Junior Year in France.