FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A SPIRITED OCCASION

Pledges Go Greek

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The spectre of “Greek Week” is once again concluding with a flurry of monograms for signatures on paddles and shirts,
a last-minute rush, and an array of service projects—which always seem to appear better on paper than in the execution.
But in the transformation from “Hell Week” to “Greek Week,” the object seems to remain the same if the methods
have been tempered. That object, it would seem, is to subject the not-so-pitiable freshman to such harassment as to define
clearly (if symbolically) his position as “pledge.” Tradition weighs heavily, however, and the attitude becomes, “Let’s do it to them
since it was done to us...” Thus, marching to breakfast, certain dietary transformations, and suitable apparel remain a part of
the scene. More to be pitied than the young man. Despite infrequent complaints, there is little in Davidson’s Greek Week
program to spark the most avid of crusaders. As a second-semester senior, one feels more a compulsion to observe what
color is available and leave the deep thinking to the appropriate and right-minded individuals and the appropriate committees.

The last four years have witnessed the demise of the oft-chastised pledge skit. Replacing that venerable tradition, the IFC has
instituted a chariot race around the court and tug-of-war competition. In two of the past five years, there has been
vocal competition among the pledge classes. But this year, the feeling seems to prevail that a melodious voice is not
a necessary ingredient for a good Greek. Above the innocent festivities stand the administrative authorities—the Ajax charger of the fraternity
court—ready and willing to enforce the restrictions on hazing. It is true, perhaps, that the future of national fraternities at
Davidson is precarious. But this past week, the noise and activity obscured the doubts and questions. The beginning, if not
always the end, of “brotherhood” at Davidson is a spirited occasion and worthy of pleasant memories.

23 Students Leave As Semester Ends

At the end of the first semester, Davidson enrollment decreased by 14 students. While re-admitting nine former students, 23 others
left for various reasons. The total broken down by classes are: three Freshmen, six Sophomores, nine Juniors, and five Seniors.
The five Seniors were completing their requirements for graduation. The other students left for various reasons; the majority were transfers.
The total broken down by reasons for leaving are: five for graduation, eight transferred, two for the Washington semester sponsored
by the Political Science department, two for independent travel in Europe, and four for other reasons. The students who are
returning include: Hugh Allen, John Apperson, Joe Bird, Stan Cameron, Jim Fuller, Glenn Hanes, Buz Hardin, Dupree Jones, and Tuck
Jones. Dean Richard C. Burts said that all former students who applied for re-admission were accepted. Burts also commented that
the number of transfers was, in most cases, for personal reasons other than grades. He also observed that the number
that left at the end of the first semester compared favorably with past years. At the end of the first
semester last year, there were 20 students who left school. The three freshmen who left also is in relation to
past years. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, stated that the problem of space in the dorms that existed at
the beginning of the first semester has vanished, and there was plenty of room. She said that the big problem
now was to get those who were left in double rooms without a roommate and those returning shuffled around and
settled before Midwinters.

Officers Appointed For ROTC Cadre

The appointments of cadets for key leadership positions in the ROTC Cadet Brigade during the second semester of the school
year 1964-65 have been announced. Brigade commander, Steve Davidson; executive officer, Jimmy Lawton; adjutant, Bruce Dalton; intelligence officer, Will Jackson;
operations officer, Steve Ramsburgh; supply officer, Allen McSween. First Battalion commander, Bill Wilson; executive officer, Ed Reynolds; intelligence officer, Larry
Scott; operations officer, Sam Grimes; supply officer, Tom Anderson; Company A commander, Van Dubose; Company B commander, Leon Whitehead; Company
C commander, Bruce Swain. Second Battalion commander, Lyle Blalock; executive officer, Steve Heckard; intelligence officer, Don Davidson; operations officer, Pat
Fisher; supply officer, John Barrow; Company D commander, John McKinley; Company E commander, Glenn Hanes; Company F commander, Jim Fuller.
Honor Guard commander, Madison Pratt; Band company commander, John Stegman. The cadets assumed command at a ceremony conducted during drill
on Tuesday, Jan. 12.

Sir Winston Inspired World By His Example

By MICHAEL LIGHT
Richardson Scholar From England

So often, more than ideas and words alone is required for effective leadership and must be supplemented by some form
of personal example. Ever since the campaigns in which he had fought in India and Africa during the 1890s, Sir
Winston had displayed virtue, daring, valor, bravado, confidence, and unquenchable energy in all he did. Thus, during the last war,
when he faced every danger in order to exhort and encourage his men, his personal example was of the greatest
inspiration to all British and Allies, thereby commanding for him the utmost respect and admiration. With his unbounding energy, Churchill
fought relentlessly to the bitter end. Time after time, during 1940-42, setbacks and failures occurred, but never once did Sir
Winston show any sign of flagging. Not only was Churchill a relentless worker himself, but he was also wholly demanding
of his subordinates. As a diplomat, he displayed all the charm and courtly manners of a prince; yet he stood
his ground, and he was as demanding of his diplomatic rivals as any drill instructor is demanding of his troops.
As someone who displayed the fine uses and values of a knowledge of history, Sir Winston's example was first-rate; he
showed, too, deep political foresight, much of which was ignored to a greater or lesser extent. He foresaw the Nazi
danger during the 1920s, yet his warnings went continually unheeded. His excessive fears of the extensive use of explosive energy
were voiced during the 1920s. During the last war, he was very quick to appreciate the impending danger of communism;
he too, originated the term the “iron curtain.” Churchill did not say in 1940, “I know I can save this
country and that nobody else can,” as Chatham had in 1756. Churchill may have thought and hoped he could, but
he did not know he could save his country. When he offered only “Blood, sweat, and tears,” he did the
most any man could have done—he gave everything to his country. Sir Winston Churchill has for many years been the
idol of British youth. It is magnificent too how much his life has been admired not only in the United
States, but throughout the world.the world. If any one of us, in attempting to emulate any single facet of the
great Sir Winston’s brilliant life, should achieve any measure of success, he will have done so nobly. Sir Winston Churchill
was a figure of legendary proportions during his own lifetime. It is quite impossible for our generation to conceive of
the dire situation faced by Great Britain, and most of the Western World, in 1940. Sir Winston Churchill was thrust
into power and led Britain, the Commonwealth, and the Allied Powers in one of the most remarkable single efforts of
the modern world. Sir Winston held more cabinet posts than any other politician. He was twice First Lord of the
Admiralty, at the commencement, respectively, of each of the World Wars; twice Prime Minister in 1940-45, and 1951-55. He was
outstanding as a leader, politician, diplomat, administrator, soldier, orator, and painter. Sir Winston’s exceptional qualities are reflected severally in each
of these fields. Churchill realized his own greatness. Without being overly pompous and superior, he was able, knowing his position,
to direct and control everybody and everything. No one could tell him what to do, but anyone could offer him
counsel. As a leader of the people, he was ideal, and he was able to inspire hope and confidence into
the minds of a dejected and fearful people. His outstanding command of the English language added so much emphasis to
his ideas, and it was sometimes almost his words alone that carried him and his people through crisis after crisis.
Sir Winston was not an orator authoritative and thoroughly well-informed. During the war, not the slightest detail escaped his eagle
eye or grasping mind. He astounded his senior Ministers by displaying at least as much knowledge as them in their
own fields. He would never express an idea or plan without a wholly sufficient number of facts with which to
back it up. To be uninformed was, in his eyes, the greatest of sins.

But Taus lose in this battle of the pledges. GOING... Prosser fights to hold ground. GONE. PIKA PLEDGES PUT THROUGH
PACES Marching Home From The Court Chamber Concert. Presented Derry Deane, violinist, and Roger Drinkall, cellist, were joined by Paul
Lyddon, pianist and artist-in-residence at Monmouth College in Illinois, in presenting a program of chamber music in Hodson Hall last
night. The husband-wife duo team of Derry Deane Drinkall and Roger Drinkall have continued to receive excellent reviews from such
far-away places as Rome, Bath, England, Reykjavik, Iceland, and Vevey, Switzerland, as well as scattered sections of the United States.
(Staff Photos by Smith)

Nobel Prize-Winning Physicist Presents Philosophy Of Science
By TED GLUSMAN and MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writers

As he first appeared on the stage of Hodson Hall Monday night, one’s first impression might have been a touch
of concern and pity for this hesitant, wizened little man with the short, frail steps and weak smile. He seemed,
perhaps, unsure of where he was and what he was to do. Then as he began to speak, his thick
Hungarian accent obscuring his first words, that initial compassion was forced to give way to a deep admiration and respect.
Just as Davidson sat charmed and entranced by the literary brilliance of poet Mark Van Doren last autumn, so did
it stand in fascination and awe of the scientific and philosophical genius of Dr. Eugene P. Wigner, February's Reynolds lecturer.
Wigner, (pronounced “Veegner”) spent Monday and Tuesday at Davidson lecturing, discussing, and teaching. He came well-qualified as a scientist, having
won the Nobel physics prize in 1963 and the Enrico Fermi Award of the Atomic Energy Commission in 1958. He
is Professor of Mathematical Physics at Princeton University, though at present he is doing research in nuclear physics at Oak
Ridge. His first contact with the Davidson student body and faculty was probably his finest showing. He spoke that first
night on his own philosophy of science. In spite of “Greek Week” and numerous other campus activities, the hall was
nearly full, and Wigner was at his best. His topic was “Understanding,” which he called “the theme of our epoch.”
Understanding he defined as the discovery of regularities. “We want to formulate regularities,” said Wigner. “That is Science.” He went
on to talk of the limits of science, asking what it is possible for man to understand. In the past,
stated the physicist, men have believed that it was possible to understand everything. Now, however, we speak only in terms
of probabilities, not absolutes. After his formal presentation, Wigner remained to answer the eager questions of almost 50 students and
faculty members. Students described him as “witty,” “completely dedicated,” “brilliant,” and “very fascinating, both his content and his personality.” Tuesday,
Dr. Wigner spoke in assembly and at a physics seminar on the same topic: the promises and dangers inherent in
the rise of science. He expressed several times his fear of too much development of the “mental sciences,” such as
psychology. At present, opined Wigner, “only concerning inanimate objects have we been able to develop a coherent set of regularities
which are reasonably complete.” But he expects man to bridge this gap in the near future, and he admitted (when
a questioner compared development of mental controls to development of nuclear physics), “I am more scared of psychology than I
am of physics. Much more scared.” Wigner made a deep impression on the Davidson student body, especially those who heard
him two or three times. He seemed to project and to generate in his listeners his own excitement at the
marvels of science and philosophy of science.

Last night they presented the first performance of David Richey’s “Caprice for Violin and Cello”—written especially for the Drinkalls. Richey
is assistant professor of music and piano instructor at Davidson. Paul Lyddon holds degrees from Eastman School of Music and
the University of Illinois and has done advanced graduate study at Catholic University of America and at the University of
Iowa. Beginning his study at Eastman School of Music in Rochester at the age of three, he was the youngest
student ever at Eastman! Lyddon is the regular accompanist to violinist Charles Treger, and has given concerts in the mid-West
and East. His Davidson performance marks his first appearance in the South. Works performed by the trio were Prokofieff's “Sonata
in F minor, Op. 80,” the Johannes Brahms’ “Sonata in F Major, Op. 99” and “Trio in D Minor, Op.
49” by Mendelssohn.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE’S
“just up the road....”
