THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1965

BY BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

Eager to cash in on a good thing, Editor John Todd, victimized by the fact that no one ever reads
his editorials, approached me early this week and requested that he might write one column under the heading Behind the
Lockers. Realizing my reputation to be at stake, I take this chance nevertheless to tell the world, this columnist...

BY JOHN TODD

“Duke is a really fine basketball team,” philosophized UCLA Coach Johnny Wooden rather matter-of-factly to a group of reporters huddled
around him last Saturday night in the Charlotte Coliseum, “... and I don’t think we are.”

Wooden’s defending national champions had just been picked apart for the second consecutive night by an amazing exhibition of hardwood
prowess put on by the Blue Devils. After taking the measure of the Bruins, 82-66, in their own Indoor Stadium
Friday night, the Blue Devils brought their victims into Davidson’s backyard and treated Charlotte fans to a 94-75 clean-up job.
Coliseum manager Paul Buck adeptly covered up his new red and black “DC” in the center jump circle, as the
enviable Devils from Durham topped anything that Davidson’s red and green Wildcats, or any quintet for that matter, can throw
at the fair-weather Queen City supporters this year.

UCLA’s famed zone press, which Sports Illustrated had recently tabbed as the defense that panics them all, was so calmly
handled by Duke that it’s hard to believe that the system ever made the headlines, much less two consecutive national
championships. Sandy-haired Wooden, almost looking the part of a defeated coach who knew it was coming, was coolly analyzing what
he had just witnessed, while the Blue Devil band staged a post-game victory concert outside on the Coliseum floor.

“Defense is a matter of personnel,” he pointed out, “and the press is a defense that takes quickness. Duke just
doesn’t lose its poise,” Wooden said, and that was the story of the game.

AN INCIDENTAL GUEST

Davidson-bound Charlie Scott, incidentally, watched the game from behind the Bruin bench. Wooden, asked if UCLA’s pre-season licking at the
hands of their freshmen team led by Scott's former teammate, Lew Alcindor, was an omen of things to come, acidulously
replied, “Any team plays poorly away from home.” Glancing across the press room, he added, “Look what happened at South
Carolina.”

SIPPING ON A COKE

He happened to be looking at a quiet redhead who was sitting ten feet away sipping on a Coke. The
young business-type was Duke’s Vic Bubas. “I’ll tell you what I told the team after the game,” said the Blue
Devil boss. “They learned to play as a team and not as individuals out there.”

It was undoubtedly true. At one point late in the first half on a fast break, Devilish Bob Verga sailed
downcourt on a two-on-one. Suspended in mid-air under the basket with a Bruin defender, Verga flashed a behind-the-back pass to
teammate Jack Marin, who dropped the two-pointer with the greatest of ease, with a tremendous roar of approval from the
sellout crowd.

Mike Lewis, a Baby Huey-type Montanan who hardly plays like a sophomore should, yet is a monster on both boards;
Bob Riedy, with an off-the-court grin so wide it almost flattens his face; and Steve Vacendak, a suave floor-leader and
terrific competitor, are only the beginning five of quite a roundball machine.

Someone on campus remarked over the weekend, “Lefty’s smarter than ever to avoid Duke on the schedule this year.” Whether
intentional or not, the absence of Duke on this year’s slate is some boon to the embarrassingly green ’Cats.

HARDLY ANY PROSPECT

Will Davidson ever schedule Duke again? An athletic department spokesman gave no hint of any such plans, and instead remarked
that there was hardly any prospect of such a meeting in the near future. Meanwhile, Wildcat fans can keep on
swallowing this year’s lumpy and unstable medicine from Johnston Gym and resign themselves to watching the Blue Devils romp from
now until March. At least the winter will pass faster that way.

Swimmers Down Citadel Fish, 58-46

After trouncing The Citadel, 58-46, in their first conference meet held in Charleston Saturday, the hopeful Wildcat Mermen prepare to
take on their second Atlantic Coast Conference foe of the young season, Wake Forest, tomorrow.

Co-captain Jim Stokes will be missing in tomorrow's match with the “Wakie Wetties.” Stokes journeys to Florida to face a
somewhat different type of competition as he will be interviewed by the Rhodes scholarship committee.

“With Stokes here we'd be sure winners,” promised sophomore swimming star Tom Irons. “It’s going to be close now. We
need depth, that’s our big weakness. Still, we've got a doggone good chance to win it.”

The Citadel match was not as close as the score indicates. Going into the last event, a relay worth seven
points, the ’Cats held a slim five-point lead. Stokes, Irons, John Helm, and Bris Rodgers won the event by one
foot, thus assuring the ’Cats of their 12-point victory.

“You might say Gary Peklo won the 500-yard freestyle,” Irons went on. “Since he lost to that... girl... last week!”

Rodgers won the 50-yard freestyle, and his teammate Helm took second. Irons won the 100 and 200-yard freestyles to further
pad the ’Cats win. Perhaps one of the biggest disappointments for Davidson's fishmen was Jim Stokes’ defeat in his specialty,
the butterfly. Again interviews interrupted the swimming team's plans for Stokes as he was forced to fly straight to Charleston
from New Orleans, and the Marshall Scholarship interviews, and to swim without sleep much of the night before.

TRICKY DICK DRIVES FOR TWO
Coliseum Action Last Week

THE DAVIDSONIAN

VMI & ECC FALL

PAGE THREE

’Cats Make It Five Straight

Coach Lefty Driesell’s young Wildcats swept by two opponents this week to extend their winning streak to five games in
defeating East Carolina and VMI.

East Carolina’s Pirates invaded Johnston Gymnasium’s hallowed walls Saturday and came altogether too close to pulling down the unbeatable “protective
shield” which has covered all Davidson basketball teams for the past three years on their home grounds. Led by 6-2
guard Jimmy Cox, the Pirates almost caught up with the Wildcats who streaked to 37 points in the first 10
minutes of play. Although they cooled down to a mild 17 points in the remainder of the first half, the
’Cats left the court at intermission with a comfortable 54-42 lead.

Roaring back, the Pirates began the second half playing outstanding defensive ball and cutting the Davidson lead. Again the ’Cats...were
cold as they went 10 minutes only scoring 10 points, while many floor mistakes plagued Driesell’s inexperienced team. Nonetheless, the
‘Cats finally refound themselves and pulled out a 90-82 victory in the final quarter of play.

Sophomore center Rod Knowles led the cagers with 29 points, nearly all coming in the first half. All-American

Keydet Musclemen Defeat Underdog ’Cat Wrestlers

Davidson's grapplers dropped their first meet of the year to VMI, 25-18, Saturday. The wrestling team managed to win four
of the nine matches against the visitors from Virginia. Joe Buffington pinned his opponent in the 123-pound class in a
time of seven minutes and 50 seconds. Martin Miller was the winner in the 130-pound class by a pin in
seven minutes 27 seconds. Eric Nichols, wrestling in the 177-pound class, won a close match by a score of 7-6.
Lowell Bryan, coach Parker’s heavyweight wrestler, won his match by a forfeit. Roger Duttweiler, a newcomer to the mats, lost
his match in the 137-pound class. Davidson suffered a loss by forfeit in the 145-pound class. Julian Prosser and Tom
Scott were pinned in the 152 and the 160-pound weight classes. Terry O’Hair, a 167-pounder, was also pinned in his
match.

Buffington’s pin was his second straight in Wildcat competition. Miller's pin was his second in a row also. Last year
Buffington was third in the Southern Conference in his weight class. The Wildcat mat men faced UNC on the Davidson
mats today. UNC is reported to be strong in the middleweight classes, around 160 pounds. In last year’s match with
UNC, the ‘Cats tied the Tar Heels. Parker's grapplers will be trying to even their record with a win over
UNC. There will also be the first freshman meet of the year. Among the ‘Kitten grapplers, Schroeder, Rich Travilla, Greg
Simmons, John Roe, Bryan Pittman, and Kerry Keith head the list.

By JIM MARROW
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Esmond Phelps, playing his major role of the season, led the powerhouse Kappa Sig basketball team in an easy 89-29
victory over the Betas as IMAC action continued this week. Phelps was ably supported by Scott Sinnock, Stu Burness, and
Steve Roston. Actually, he failed to score, but his exciting floor-play was the loss of five pounds.

Kappa Sigs Outman Betas; Gamms Are Nearest Threat

By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s highly touted freshmen streaked to a 102-74 victory over an outclassed North Greenville squad before stumbling over their notices
in enemy territory. The trouncing came Tuesday night at the hands of Duke’s Blue Imps, who halted the Wildkittens’ win
streak at five games.

The freshmen entertained the North Greenville quintet on Saturday night in Johnston Gym, hustling and gunning their way to an
impressive showing. Mike Spann and Dave Moser created the offensive sparks, tallying 27 and 29 points respectively. Strong rebounding and
good ball handling helped pave the road to victory. However, away from home for the first time, the frosh saw
their record tarnished by a score of 107-85. Their usual steady ball handling was disrupted by some quick ballhawks, while
the Imps’ big men dominated the boards. Mike Dickens, expressing the squad’s feelings, said, “They were really strong and quick,
but we didn’t play like ourselves. We should do better against them the next time.”

Larry Dempsey and Barney Smith, with 19 and 17 points respectively, led an Imp squad which placed seven men in
double figures. Davidson’s five starters all hit for more than ten points, paced by Wayne Huckel’s 19. Spann and Rocky
Crosswhite chipped in with 18 and 17 points apiece. This contest concluded the freshmen’s pre-Christmas activity. They open after the
holidays with Furman, Jan. 1, at the Charlotte Coliseum against Ferrum Junior College.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

showed a tremendous effort. Jake Jacobsen was high man for the Betas. Later, a fine Phi Gamm team got off
to a fast start and then kept up the pace to win handily, 62-32, over the Pi Kapps. Johnny Little
was the game’s high scorer with an impressive total of 26 points. The Pi Kapps were edged earlier by the
SAEs, 38-35. In other fraternity games, the SPEs edged the Nus by three, the ATOs ran through the KAs 61-44,
and the Machis whipped the Independents 74-51.

In freshman action, Cannon A opened the week with a second-half comeback to beat Watts. George Nixon and Tom Baker
led a tremendous defense that held Watts scoreless for twelve minutes. Cannon A then lost its following two games to
East A, 74-57, and East B, 56-36. In the first, Tom Allison scored 20 for Cannon as Tom Poston, Jim
McDowell, and Doug Crisp led East A. In the East B game, East overcame a 26-25 halftime margin to break
the game open as Bruce Weidner scored 18. Steve Faulk, Bill Hearn, and Al Varner also played well for East.
East B trounced Watts, 47-19, before losing to Cannon B. Cannon was sparked by Frank Murphy and Tom Scovill. In
the finals for the week, Cannon B won again. The victim was Watts, 59-36. Pete Norton and Scoville each connected
for 18 as Macky Reavis hit 14 for the losers.

WITHERS ELECTRIC COMPANY
Phone 892-2911
Electrical Service
Davidson, N. C.
Radio, Record Player, and TV Repairs

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has
the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID
card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel
375-9723
Charlotte, N. C.

to lead the night's scoring. Charlie Schmaus, VMI's ace scorer and defender, scored 24 points. He and Snyder guarded each
other. But despite Snyder's heroics, his 31 points and 10 rebounds, Stone stole the show. “He was great,” reserve guard
Pinky Hatcher beamed. “He got 15 points, 11 rebounds, and five assists.” Stone will start against Dartmouth; Lane’s pulled muscle
will keep him out of action Saturday. He sustained his injury in the second half of the East Carolina contest.
However, the injury was not noticed until the next day.

RONNIE STONE
Comes Through in Clutch

Monday—Friday
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Davidsonians! We extend to you our warmest wishes for a Merry Christmas. And before you leave for the holidays, let
us help you with your Christmas shopping for Mom, Dad, Sis, Brother, or that favorite girl. Gifts Wrapped Free

Stein Nock & Gen.
Mooresville
Open Nights ‘til Christmas
