PAGE SIX | Golden-Lakey Examine Speaker-Ban In Chapel

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Harry Golden, author, editor, and liberal, and Leroy Lakey, commander of the American Legion in North Carolina, were supposed to debate the speaker ban law in last Tuesday’s chapel. Well, what little could be heard over the noise of the animals in the audience was really no contest. Golden took the floor first to speak against the ban. Afterwards a student remarked, “He didn't say a whole lot, but he sure put on a show.” The original Carolina Israelite certainly did that, and he managed to sneak in a few good points while he was at it.

He began by saying of the ban, “Its passage was clear evidence that a degree of neurasthenia still exists in our country.” Many people “think of Communism as a little demon running across the countryside. Legislators figure that if they can’t catch the demon they may as well get a few votes out of it.” Pointing out the fact that the law is ineffective because Communist literature is readily available, Golden urged, “It is our duty to keep after the state legislature to burn those books.” This is a logical conclusion of the type of thinking that resulted in the speaker ban law. “Supporters of this law do not understand the American philosophy,” said Golden. He ended by emphasizing that we should not be afraid but should strive to set an example for the world.

Leroy Lakey was certainly handicapped by having to follow the previous act and by an audience reaction that nobody should have to survive. Nevertheless, he did very little to help his own cause. He stated his position firmly at the outset. “We feel that it is a good and just law and that it should not be tampered with in any way.” Mentioning the riots at Berkeley, Lakey noted “increased participation in agitation for academic freedom.” This he felt was instigated in many cases by Communist sympathizers outside the universities. Lakey emphasized the extreme danger of allowing unsuspecting college students to come into contact with the Communist menace. “Who would deny that young minds are impressionable? Who would willingly subject his children to the teachings of a known Communist?” Who indeed? The Legionnaire also tried to refute the charge that the law was passed too quickly. “Who here would say that this measure was passed too quickly?” A number of hands were gleefully raised in response. Lakey ended by quoting an atheistic poem by a Communist. It was clear when he left the podium that through his own efforts and the unstinting labor of the audience he was retiring in defeat.

HARRY GOLDEN
“Burn Those Books”

Norman Will Head YMCA Easter Drive

Lewis Norman will speak in Chapel Tuesday to ask for contributions for the annual Easter YMCA Gift Fund. Norman, along with Neil McBryde and Joe Davis, who are the publicity and solicitation chairmen respectively, are determined to reach this year’s target of $2400. An intensive two-week drive is to start on Wednesday. This year, the following four projects have been nominated to receive the money:
(1) The construction of a student union building at Shikoku University in Japan.
(2) The sending of four or five Davidson students to Ecuador during the summer, under a plan promoted by the Project of the Americas.
(3) The building of a kindergarten by the Mecklenburg County Association for Retarded Children.
(4) The construction of a medical center for the University of Nicaragua, conducted by the World University Service Organization.

During chapel each Tuesday, representatives connected with the projects will speak from five to six minutes to help the Davidson student body in its decision. Immediately afterwards all students will vote for one of the projects which will receive $2400. The voting procedure will be convenient, so as to encourage as many students as possible to vote.

By HUGH ALLEN
Former Honor Court Chairman

Many times the operation and work of the Honor Court is not evident to the student body until someone is dismissed for an honor violation. Then rumors begin to spread about the “mysterious hatchet men who axed another member of the student body.” The Honor Court is far from being an “axe organization.” Instead, it is the most vital organization of the student government on campus. Realizing this fact, the Honor Court has undergone (and will continue) a self-evaluation. This study has been concerned with the image of the Honor Court on campus, its effectiveness as a judiciary body, its efficiency in trial procedure, and its responsibility to define and clarify the Honor Code and Student Body Regulations.

SELF STUDY

Following is a summary of the self-study beginning last year and including proposals for next year (’65-’66): Last year, the court sent questionnaires to several schools (in-state and out-of-state) asking them about their honor system structure, student support, and its strengths and weaknesses. We also polled faculty opinion concerning changes made in the punishment for an honor code violation. (In general, the faculty agreed that the present punishment, dismissal for two years, was satisfactory and necessary under our honor system.) The answered questionnaires were instrumental in helping last year’s court revise its trial procedure. The court extended the rights and duties of the defendant in order to be fairer and more just. The court also added a “charge” to be given at the beginning of the trial.

PAMPHLET

This year the Court has been working on the publication of a pamphlet. This pamphlet will contain an introduction and history of the Honor System at Davidson. It will also contain the Honor Code, Student Body Regulations, and the trial procedure. This pamphlet will be available to entering freshmen and the student body next year. The Honor Court has also been very concerned with defining and clarifying the Honor Code and Student Body Regulations and the court’s jurisdiction in these areas. The court members have discussed these areas and a committee has been formed to make a more detailed study, presenting their results to the court to be confirmed. The committee will also define the various punishments given to violators of the code and regulations. In order to include student opinion, the committee will poll the student body about the various areas under consideration. The completed results will be included in the pamphlet.

TRIAL PROCEDURE

This year’s court has found it necessary to revise two parts of the trial procedure. They are as follows:
1. The accused will be given at least 24 hours, instead of 5 hours, to prepare his defense after he has been charged with a violation. The court believed this longer time period would be much fairer to the accused.
2. The spokesman will be chosen by the chairman instead of the court, before the trial and will help carry out the investigation of a reported violation. The court believed that this change would enable the spokesman to have more thorough and detailed knowledge of a case which would in turn help him to better formulate the questioning of the accused.

The court over the years has received criticism and been the victim of sometimes detrimental rumors following the dismissal of a student for an honor violation. This year, the court has thoroughly discussed the issue and has decided to make an official non-personal statement concerning the nature of an honor violation resulting in the dismissal of a student. The chairman, recorder, and Student Body President (non-voting member) will decide the content of the statement to be announced in a closed student body meeting. The court believed this action would help prevent erroneous rumors and be in keeping with the court’s duty and responsibility to the student body.

NEW INSIGHT

In order to gain new insights and concepts of honor and the honor system, six Honor Court members attended an Honor Council Symposium at Wake Forest, during Feb. 19-20, 1965. Schools with Honor Systems from Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina attended.

REPORTERS NEEDED

DAVIDSONIAN staff writers will meet Sunday night at 9:30 in the Green Room of the College Union. The meeting will be short—but very important. Editorial staff meeting will meet at 10 p.m. Several vacancies have occurred in the news and sports department with the changeover in staffs. Anyone—freshmen or upperclassmen—interested in writing for THE DAVIDSONIAN should attend the meeting at 9:30 Sunday night.

Bordley, Schaeffer To Give Organ Recital

The Department of Music will present John Bordley and Stephen Schaeffer, organists, in a recital Sunday at 4:00 p.m. in the College Church. The students, pupils of Wilmer H. Welsh, will be heard in a program of Mendelssohn, Bach, Brahms, Scheidt, Franck, Sowerby, and Walcha. Bordley, a senior from Winter Park, Florida, is a chemistry major with a minor in music. He has performed with the Charlotte Wind Ensemble.organ. He has studied organ under Marshall Anders of St. John's Episcopal Church in Baltimore and served on the staff of the Brevard Summer Music Camp for three years. Currently, he is the student director of the Bordley Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, the Wildcat Band, and the Charlotte Oratorio Singers orchestra.

Heckard, Hightower Skydive
By LINDSAY DAVIS, Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Get your feet out!” shouted the spotter. A few seconds later he added, “Now get on the wing!” Then came the slap on the leg, the push back, and Phil Hightower was airborne. Hightower and Steve Heckard have been making static line skydives with a skydiving club in Salisbury. When asked about the club, Hightower said, “They're just a group of ex-servicemen who were in Airborne and still like to jump. We're not members — you have to make five static line jumps before you can qualify. Steve's not going to jump anymore, and I'll probably make only two more.”

“JUST FOR KICKS”
Hightower and Heckard became interested in skydiving “just for kicks,” contacted the club in Salisbury, and began to take instruction. “The teaching,” continued Hightower, “is free and you use the club's chutes and helmets. You supply the boots and jump suits.” The plane from which they jump is small with room for only about three jumpers, including the spotter. “The spotter is the key to the jump,” said Hightower. “He lines you up with the target area, making allowances for wind shifts and velocity.” On static line jumps, the plane is at 2800 feet but rises to 3500 feet on a jumper’s first free fall dive.

When asked how it feels to be all alone in the air with nothing but a sheet between the jumper and his downfall, Hightower replied, “It's great. Of course, you get butterflies on your first jump, but it all happens so quickly that you don't even think about it.”

“LINES TANGLED”
There was more than a little extra excitement on that last jump. It seems that the spotter did not allow enough for the wind, which caused the divers to miss the target area. Also, as Hightower pushed himself away from the wing, he did so a bit too hard and was rolled over on his side. “When the static line pulled the ripcord, the chute jerked me sideways, and the lines got tangled.” Hightower added that it was only a matter of untwisting the lines and that the trouble at that point was not serious. He described the feeling as a “floating feeling,” and that’s easy to imagine. “The quiet is really powerful, like being in another world. The only sound is a soft woosh.”

STRADDLE FENCE
Then, he reported, “I started to look for the jump zone, but nothing was going to bother me until I saw a barbed wire fence, and I knew I was gone.” He was not so lucky on one jump; he landed in a tree! But he wasn't hurt, though the chute was slightly ripped.

Next, Hightower was asked about the danger of the sport. “There’s danger, there's no denying that, but the men at Salisbury are very careful, and they know their stuff.” The packer of the parachutes is an expert, and there is virtually no danger with a properly packed chute. The Salisbury club does not allow anyone to dive free fall right away, no matter how much experience a person has; they require the five static line jumps before they will let anyone free fall. The cost is $4.75 for each static line jump and $3.50 for every free fall from 3500 feet, with the rates getting steeper as the altitude increases.

OWN EQUIPMENT
As soon as a jumper has completed his five static line jumps, he can decide whether or not he wants to join the club. He then must buy his own equipment. “Most of the members,” said Hightower, “use the sport parachutes, which have doors, or holes, that they use to guide themselves coming down. I was playing around a little too much that last jump, turning one way, then another, but I wanted a little fun for my money.” Most of the accidents in skydiving are due to panic on the part of the chutist.

In workshops, honor court structure, trial procedure, and student support were discussed. A general discussion and evaluation followed the workshop. The conclusions of this symposium are to be sent to the court at the end of the semester. Many of this year’s changes and next year's proposals were greatly influenced by the attendance at this symposium.

NEW PROPOSALS
This year's court has made several proposals for the new court to consider. They are as follows: Old labs are not to be copied in part or in whole whatsoever unless so stated by the professor. Free discussion will be permitted during lab, but each person will be responsible for recording his own results. Each professor will make a written statement concerning pledged work in his labs. The new court will visit and discuss this proposal with the science professors. The new court will submit a statement to each professor concerning academic work during exams. This statement will serve as a reminder to the student body and express the concern the present court believes that a student will better realize the significance of his responsibility as a member of an honor community if he is encouraged to confront the accuser before he reports a violation. The new court will poll this year’s Senior Class and the student body next year concerning this issue. The new court will seek better means of communication with the student body through articles to THE DAVIDSONIAN discussing relevant issues and court action, forums, etc. The Honor Court will continue in its efforts to evaluate its duty and responsibility to the student body and encourage student suggestion and constructive criticism. The court believes its first function is to define, clarify, and educate the members of the honor community. Its last function, and most regrettable function, is to try violators of the Honor System.

a bassoonist and saxophonist. For three years, Bordley served as organist at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church in Davidson and is presently recording secretary for Sigma Phi Epsilon and Dean of the student chapter of the American Guild of Organists. A freshman and music major, Schaeffer is a member of the Male Chorus and the student chapter of The American Guild of Organists. A native of Lexington, he attended the Governor’s School at Salem College in 1963. At Salem, he has studied organ with John S. Mueller. Schaeffer attended St. Thomas Church Choir School in New York City for three years, and while in New York, studied organ under Edward Wallace.

(Staff Photo by Smith)
PHIL HIGHTOWER AND STEVE HECKARD

The Original Flies?

AMHERST (Continued From Page One)
concerned about its failings in these areas than Amherst.

SELF-RESPONSIBILITY
The most outstanding quality of the Amherst man that the participants noticed was not, however, his self-criticisms, but rather his self-responsibility. Powell stated, “The responsibility is placed on the students for getting their education.” While the Amherst student is freer than the Davidson student, his freedoms result in a more responsible intellectual attitude. “Freedom in all aspects of the college seemed to me to be conducive to a more intellectual atmosphere,” continued Powell. Frist and Dibble, too, commented on the intellectual atmosphere, and Boone added that “The Amherst student is more responsible in exercising his greater number of freedoms; for example, there is little drinking during the week.”

All of the eight are interested in the continuance of similar programs in the future. Said Boone, “Hopefully more sentiment in the Davidson student body can be raised for more freedom and responsibility on campus — and against our prep school protectionism!” Frist added that “it might help stimulate some thought around here.”

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Barber
Cumming
Epes
Johnston
Jones
Kaylor
Lammers
McGeachy
Maloney
Martin, S.
Marrotte
Minter
Nelson
Plott
Rhodes
Richey
Schenck
Smith
Stone
Young

With Spring Frolics just around the corner, now is the time for all good THREAD MEN to come to the aid of their wardrobe. At Rush Wilson Ltd. we have a fine selection of Suits, Sport Coats, and slacks tailored just to suit you.

Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.