PAGE FOUR FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1965

Freshman Camp Hailed As Complete Success

More than 150 freshmen arrived on campus two days early last week to participate in the YMCA Freshman Camp, acclaimed an unqualified success by both leaders and participants. Dr. Charles Johnson, professor of English at St. Andrews College and past chaplain of Duke University, opened the program Tuesday night with the feature talk on "The Identity Crisis." After the speech, a student panel evaluated Dr. Johnson’s points and answered questions raised by the freshmen.

Washington Pastor To Speak Sunday

The Rev. George Macpherson Docherty, pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church of Washington, D.C., will speak in vespers this Sunday on “The Church in a Day of Revolution.” The Rev. Mr. Docherty was born in Glasgow, Scotland, and educated at Glasgow University. After earning his MA and BD at the university, he ministered to the Sandyhills Church of Scotland in Glasgow. In 1944 he undertook special youth work as Minister Co-Adjutor at the Barony of Glasgow. Dr. Docherty was called to his present position in Washington in 1950. Since then he has earned a DD from Temple University and an LLD from Monmouth College, Monmouth, IL. In 1962 he served as moderator of the Presbytery of Washington.

Dr. Ernest Patterson, professor of economics, gave his opinion on “What An Education Is All About.” Dr. W. B. Hight, director of the student counseling office, followed Dr. Patterson Wednesday morning with his views on adjustment to college life. His speech was followed by group discussions on “Education at Davidson,” with members of the faculty serving as the discussion leaders.

The camp staff included Wit Terry, chaplain; Ian Lampe, camp director; Bobby Hawk, publicity chairman; and Chris Hawk, business manager. Student leaders filled the remaining positions on the staff.

This year, with the location moved to Camp Thunderbird, south of Charlotte, it was possible to accommodate all the freshmen who applied to camp. In the past, the camp had been held at a smaller site which could accommodate only 100 members of the freshmen class. Everyone concerned with the leadership of the camp and of the freshmen class as a whole had nothing but praise for the impact of the camp on the freshmen. Freshman Advisor Dave Powell summed up the general opinion by saying, “The boys who went to Freshman Camp adjusted far quicker, as a rule. The camp does a remarkably good job of preparing the freshmen for orientation and college life in general.”

NOTICE

THE DAVIDSONIAN has openings for a limited number of reporters and copy readers. All interested freshmen, including those who visited the DAVIDSONIAN exhibit at the Activities Fair, and upperclassmen are asked to come to the DAVIDSONIAN office at 5 p.m. Sunday for a short meeting. Those unable to attend should contact News Editor Sam Boyte in 374 Belk.

TRACK CROSS COUNTRY

DR. JOHNSON MAKES A POINT
St. Andrews Professor Speaks To Freshmen

Initiates Program Of Freshman Talks

The YMCA will initiate a dormitory group discussion program for freshmen that will stimulate a more active YMCA on campus, Neil McBryde, freshman discussions chairman, announced recently. “The object of the program,” McBryde explained, “is twofold. First, it is to provide the freshmen with answers to the questions that quite naturally arise in the first few weeks of school. With delayed rush, they have been cut off from fraternity members who previously would have been their source of information. Second, the program may help bridge the communication gap that has long existed between the students (especially freshmen) and the faculty and administration.”

Normally, members of the faculty will lead the discussion groups, but upperclassmen may also lead the discussions. “One of the chief virtues of the plan,” according to McBryde, “is that freshmen, placed in an academic environment foreign to their high school experience, and faced with a tremendous process of adjustment, now have an outlet to voice their own problems and frustrations.” Under this program, the freshmen...

Davidson’s Post Office Becomes First Class
New Atmosphere Noted Without Strain Of Rush

Davidson’s post office, previously second class, became a first class office, for the time being at least, on July 1. In addition, some changes in policy have been made since the last academic year. Postmaster W. B. Mayhew explained that post office classification is determined by revenue collected during the calendar year. Davidson qualified to become a first class office during 1964, but this year revenue is running far behind 1964, and it will probably revert to a second class office at the end of the year. “We had a good parcel post customer,” Mayhew commented. Because the post office is now first class, however, “we can’t take his packages or anyone else's beyond certain limitations,” Mayhew continued. As a result of the switch, money orders no longer are sold on Saturdays. Another change, not resulting from the switch, concerns the dispatch of mail from Davidson. It is no longer picked up at 9:53 p.m. or at 3 a.m. by the highway post office system. A letter deposited at the post office at night does not go out until the following morning. Mail now leaves Davidson at 8:45 a.m., 11:30 a.m., 5:15 p.m., and arrives at 5:45 a.m., 8:45 a.m., 1:08 p.m., and 3:45 p.m. “Mail,” emphasized Mayhew, “should be brought over at least 30 minutes before it is scheduled to leave.” Finally, the post office is now locked each night at 9 p.m. The postmaster termed this a “security measure.”

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

It was just like any other day, not like previous first days. A returning alumnus would probably have been surprised. The buildings are still the same, the grounds, too, but something was missing. That something is the tense and intense rushing that heretofore dominated the lives of freshmen and upperclassmen alike for the first week of school. When classes opened, no longer were the small groups of fraternity men seen going from room to room, attempting to meet, get to know and impress the prospective freshmen rushees. Instead, the atmosphere has been far more relaxed and casual. Fraternity men still are seen talking to freshmen, but in a different capacity, as upperclassmen and not as rushers. And the strain of the nightly rush parties on preparation for classes has been removed. Assistant Dean of Students Tom Covington observed...During Orientation: "These freshmen seem to be more sophisticated in their questions about fraternities and rush." Though perhaps too technical in inquiries about rush regulations, they seem to be much more relaxed. Said Covington: "The pressure is off, and they can begin to settle into college life." A 1965 graduate, Zach Long, assistant to the director, commented: "Delaying rush has helped the freshmen get themselves ready for classes. It will be easier for them to realize the importance of college, the academics and not the social." Not only will the freshmen have a better start in their classes, but the upperclassmen also. They can now get back into the swing, and not begin work after rush week already three or four days behind, as was often the case. "I believe that the fraternities will be helped by deferred rush," remarked IFC Chairman.

Grants Help To Improve College Athletic Plant

Davidson's athletic and physical education plant will be reshaped and greatly enlarged when summer improvements and additions to playing fields and courts are completed. A special grant of $20,000 from the Duke Endowment is being used for this enhancement of the college's athletic facilities. President D. Grier Martin said that the funds, part of a $274,000 special Duke grant announced in February, would be used specifically to develop further the college’s tennis facilities and to add to the intramural athletic field area. "These Duke funds plus a $52,000 Richardson Foundation grant, matched with $50,000 of college funds for the renovation of Richardson Field, permit us this year to take a solid step forward in the development of Davidson's total athletic facilities," Martin said.

"In the Davidson student body of 1,000 men, a full 800 students are active in some facet of physical training through either the college's physical education program, the intramural program, or intercollegiate competition. Davidson is making every effort to serve these student needs adequately as it strives primarily to offer a first-quality academic program," added Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director. Davidson presently has 12 varsity tennis courts. The present baseball field doubles as a football practice area and parking lot in fall and winter. The heavy intramural athletic program cannot be accommodated on present facilities. In addition to improvements in athletic facilities, many buildings have been freshly painted this summer. Watts Dorm now has lavatories and ceiling lights with wall switches.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2444

The Cove Lounge
1408 E. Morehead St.
Same shopping center as Manor Theater
Just a few blocks from Queens College
Your favorite beverage in quiet, plush atmosphere
Newest Lounge in Charlotte
Reservations — Private Parties
332-8096

PROVIDENCE MANOR INN
611-A Providence Rd.

Jim Terry: "They'll have time to set up their rush programs better now." Terry also said that he thought the freshmen were aware of the problem that existed before and those which exist now. "If both freshmen and upperclassmen," he continued, "would abide by the newly set up regulations, I think a lot of problems can be prevented." The only despondent word about the new regulations has been heard from the freshmen, who complain about a shortage of transportation, both for themselves and their dates. They claim that the buses which bring the girls to the mixers leave too early, and that they do not have enough cars to take them back themselves. Terry emphasized the need for complete cooperation from everyone regarding the rush regulations. As Terry said, "It would be mighty hard to hold an intensified rush for two months."

David Meschan had the same impression as Long. He added, however, that he was not sure that the idea of deferred rush would give the freshmen a better start in fraternities. He believed they might stop contact completely for a very short time.

Ivanhoe’s Steak House
4714 Sharon Rd.
Live Music Fri. and Sat. — Pizza and Complete Menu

Rathskeller Lounge
1601 Montford Dr.
Open 7 Days a Week

Meschan would like to have information to contribute. Naturally Great! Authentic traditional clothing and furnishings for the college man. Gant Shirts, Alan Paine Sweaters, Madisonaire Suits, Corbin Slacks, Weejuns, Canterbury Belts, Madisonaire Sport Coats, London Fog. Davidson student’s home away from home! May we cash your checks and charge your purchases? Come in and browse... you’re always welcome.

THREE NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS
DOWNTOWN * PARK ROAD * COTSWOLD—WEST MALL

Campus revolution! Slacks that never need ironing—never! Galey and Lord permanent press fabrics of polyester and cotton. Stay neat—however washed! Galey & Lord, 1407 Broadway, NY 18. A Division of Burlington Industries.

Marthynda AP men will also have a chance to talk about the important and controversial issues which face not only the college community but also the nation and the world. Topics to be discussed will be determined from the results of a questionnaire sent out to both the freshmen and the faculty. The meetings will last about an hour on Monday, Tuesday, or Thursday nights, starting around 10 p.m. Discussion will consist of 10 or 12 minutes of introduction, with the remainder of the hour being devoted to questions and answers. The primary purpose is to actively engage the freshmen in the discussion at hand and to have them ask questions. McBryde emphasized the importance of student participation in making the program a success. The first meetings will be held during the week of Sept. 27 and will be of a rather general nature.

Swingline
Do they have a 4th of July in England? (Answers below)
Take two TOT Staplers from three TOT Staplers, and what do you have?

This is the Swingline (including 1000 staples)
Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.49
No bigger than a pack of gum—but packs the punch of a big deal! Refills available everywhere. Unconditionally guaranteed. Made in U.S.A. Get it at any stationery, variety, or book store!

Swingline INC., Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Answers: [1] Yes, they have a 4th of July in England. [2] One TOT Stapler.