Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Equity

The report isn’t out yet. At least the one that everyone is awaiting, mostly with a fearful eagerness. The “interim”
report by the Fraternity Evaluation Committee which was presented to Student Council Monday did little more than state that the
committee had been meeting and vaguely what it had been doing. However, included in the necessarily sketchy report were several
generally non-controversial recommendations which indicate the range of the committee’s examination of fraternities and social life: Proposed are a campus-wide
social committee and a social assessment of all students.

We support the idea of a campus-wide social committee performing the booking functions now carried on by the Interfraternity Council
(IFC). The committee would be representative of all the student body: fraternity men and Independents would be represented in proportion
to their numbers in the student body. To finance the social program, the college would include a social assessment in
the general fees, thereby providing the committee with a budget substantially larger than that of this year’s IFC. The proposals
are equitable: each student pays the same amount towards campus social life and each student, consequently, has an equal voice
in the selection of entertainment. Implementation of this proposal by the faculty and trustees would indicate that the college is
willing to begin moving towards improving the social life of each individual member of the student body.

A Waste

We have avoided commenting on chapel this year because it's an ancient and tiring issue. We would rather remain imprisoned
than try to butt down a brick wall with our heads. Our argument has always rested on the idea of
freedom rather than compulsion, and, since this has been adequately aired in the past, we have tried to avoid repetition.
But now we wish to enter a plea for a bit of discretion: If a program falls through at the
last minute, or if a person in charge of arrangements failed in his task, must we follow through with the
hollow ritual? When the speaker is James Farmer or Ethel Nash or James Jackson Kilpatrick we have little reason to
complain. But when an excellent program cannot be arranged, why have a “program” merely for the sake of having attendance
checked? Surely, no chapel is better than a poor chapel; presenting a lousy program is a more unfavorable reflection on
those in charge of arrangements than no program at all. Far too often this year the DAVIDSONIAN news editor has
reported at our Sunday night staff meetings that chapel for the next week “is still up in the air.” Pitiful
programs have followed all too often on these indefinite dates, programs which were planned for no reason other than to
fill a vacant period which existed. There is need for discretion.

Spark

Army ROTC has never impressed us with its imagination. In fact, Army ROTC has never revealed to us any concern
for this dearth of creative approach. Then several weeks ago students were asked to submit critiques of the ROTC program.
This self-examination was nothing startling. But our firmly fixed picture of the staid ROTC Department was suddenly shattered when extensive
changes resulted from the questionnaires: That the Department is willing to enact changes in an attempt to provide a less
time-consuming and all the while more meaningful program is significant. We didn’t know the Army was willing to try anything
new. We were pleasantly surprised.

Take Blue Boy Down

Down in Secaucus, N. J., there is a huge billboard by the side of the highway which advertises culture. Superimposed
on it is an enormous reproduction of Thomas Gainsborough’s “Blue Boy.” That’s all. No “Buy Binkies,” no “Drive a Shmoomobile,”
no “Vote for Bassoon.” The advertising company behind the endeavor plans to reproduce other works of art on other billboards
which happen to be empty at the time. “Billboards,” the president of the company told a reporter, “are the general
public’s art gallery.” While the idea undoubtedly comes straight from the heart, we wonder if it is wise. From the
point of view of safety, what would happen if they put reproductions of Picasso’s wild “Guernica” or Goya’s seductive portrait
of his mistress up there? And from another point of view it would seem kind of ridiculous if they hid
the real landscape with landscape paintings. If we have to have billboards, let’s keep those good old ads on them.
We think the public’s art gallery is still in the museums.

The Boston Herald

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth

Copy Editor
Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors
Dan Aitken
Tim Kimrey
Calvin Zon

Managing Editors
John Todd
Sam Smith
Mike Harrington
Tom Thel

Asst. Managing Editor
John Bailey
Erskine Sproul

News Editor
Rufus Lingle

Feature Editor
Heyward Carter

Cartoonists
Rufus Hallman
Julius Halimar

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs
Lou Hill

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Asst. Circulation Manager
John Viser

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron

Contributors this week:
Sam Boyte, Tom Cook, John Allen, Mike Mooty, Steve Brown, Larry Norfleet, Neville Patterson, Paul Marion, Tucker Laxton, Louis Lesesne,
Dick Spencer, Huck Berry, Bob Strauser, Steve Couch, Ron Snow, Bob Travers, Tim Rothermel, Walt Drake, Mike Bates, Ed Maxwell,
Bert Whisnant, Roger David, Joe Ford, Frank Fleming, Billy Farr, Grey Pash, Danny Boone, Ted Glusman, Smith McKeithan.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Thanks, Fellows
by Harrington

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Jones Salutes Wildcats: 'We Have All Been Proud'

Dear Editor:

The basketball season is over. Only the hollowness of this fact reflects its incredulous finality. Inevitably it is a time
of meaningless questions and answers. Does Davidson really belong in the Southern Conference? Yes or no... the basketball season is
over. The Southern Conference Tournament has crowned a champion of just that. The significance of such a title is attested
to by the fact that for the last two years its finals have pitted the fourth and sixth seeded teams.
Last year's champion was run off the floor by the Ivy League. The system is not worthy of further mockery.
The records attest to what justice and common sense are and are not. But maybe we have all felt something
a little deeper than frustration. Much of last year's student body emotion was selfish. This year much more is sympathetic.
If we wanted vindication in victory, what of those who played the game? Especially now we should not over dramatize
and we must not defend what doesn't need defending. But we can and should say thank you to a handful
of athletes who have added so much to all that is Davidson College. And to Lefty Driesell for as great
a dedication to purpose as exists in the Davidson community or anywhere in the coaching ranks. And more impressive in
defeat than victory. Fred Hetzel is (aggression not withstanding) an authentic All American. The 1964-65 Davidson College basketball team was
by far the best in the Southern Conference and one of the best in the nation. This team had heart
and guts. They wanted the tournament—perhaps too badly to have won it, but they could have played with anybody, anywhere,
any time. There were personalities too and they will be missed. Following last year's loss to Furman, Rick Lowery said
“I will be in Durham on Saturday night, and I will be proud to be there.” For three years we
have all been proud. They will be remembered for the way they played the game.

Tuck Jones
Davidson College

Dougherty

Professor Kelton, in his Feb. 19 article in THE DAVIDSONIAN, listed six ways in which the Speaker Ban Law would
tear down democratic principles and aid communism. On the contrary, a modified law, along the line of Michigan’s law, would
support Democratic principles and deter communism in the areas he listed.

(1) The purpose of the law is not to keep students from coming into contact with communist doctrine; this is
impossible. It is, instead, to refuse to communist speakers a tax-supported position from which they may expound on the mythical
advantages of the collectivist, communist form of dictatorship.

(2) If there was a demand for an informative lecture

FILM FRIENDS PRESENT ‘Canned Theater’ Junked

By WALTER MEEKS
Asst. Professor of French

The next presentation of the Film Friends “Great Directors Series” will be Rene Clair’s A Nous la Liberte, March 9
and 10 at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. A film viewer of today, rather far removed from the experimentation of
Dada and Surrealism, may well wonder upon seeing Clair's masterpiece what is great about it. Three-and-a-half decades of talkies produced
since A Nous la Liberte will likely have dulled his aural sensitivity. The coming of sound in motion pictures found
most filmmakers unsure what to do with it. Their usual reflex was to adapt it to films in a realistic
manner, speech becoming an integral part of plot development. Rene Clair refused canned theatre, and more daring than most directors
dared to be, he broke from conventional practices and used sound not as it is in THE world but as
it is in HIS world. Clair goes so far as to kid the whole concept of synchronous sound in A
Nous la Liberte. In oneEpisode: A young man admires from afar the heroine, who is singing in her window. Suddenly,
the voice goes awry, whines, whirs, fades away. When the girl appears a moment later on the street, the audience
learns that it has been listening to a phonograph in another apartment, that the appearance of reality is not reality.
For Clair, who insisted upon the visual element, many of the techniques of the silent film, especially those of Chaplin,
were still valid. His pictures flash along like ballets, whole sequences being joined together by music. Sound, above all asynchronous
sound, may add to perception and to enrichment of mood and atmosphere, but its use is always to enhance the
visual. This film itself is not Dadaist or Surrealist, but the influence of these movements on Clair allowed him a
considerable freedom to experiment in the new medium of talking pictures. Moreover, in dealing with the comic instead of the
serious, he was not hampered by demands for realism. A Nous la Liberte is good fun and an aesthetic experience,
but one must remain alert while watching it to catch what Clair is up to with sight and sound.

Series on communism, it could be conducted by someone (John Noble, for example) who would not attempt to hide its
terrible implications and who had actually experienced life under the system. Such a lecture series would be excellent preparation for
our young people. (3) Communism is always wide-open to refutation whether there is a speaker or not. Also, is communism
“typically” refuted by college students? I think not, as is evidenced by the daily student-led anti-American, pro-communist demonstrations both here
and abroad. (4) Professor Kelton said that communism's appeal would be enhanced because under the law it would be “forbidden.”
This would not be the case. Besides the fact that communists could always speak off-campus, university libraries contain both pro-and
anti-communist literature. The student is free to choose. (5) The law does not indicate that the democratic process cannot cope
with communism; it merely withdraws the support of the North Carolina taxpayer from the communist movement. (6) Most importantly, the
law does not abridge freedom of thought or speech. Communists are completely free to speak anywhere they choose, their only
restriction is that they may not use state-supported facilities. A modified Speaker Ban Law would be a just and necessary
law. It would prohibit the use of state funds for the support of a doctrine which aims at either the
death or enslavement of all of us and the abolishment of all the freedoms we are trying to protect. A
law could hardly be more sensible.

Ron Dougherty
Davidson College

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Within a few weeks, the Fraternity Evaluation Committee will make public the results of its long and arduous discussion concerning
the future of national fraternities on the campus of this college. Doubtless the report will be met with groans and
shouts of praise alike. One thing is certain: there will be some changes made. The only question is how sweeping
these changes will be. And, in a very real sense, neither the Fraternity Evaluation Committee nor the student body at
large can pretend to say how far the changes should go. The pros and cons fill the air, but nothing
constructive can come of the whole bitter dialogue until the College (meaning the faculty, administration, and Board of Trustees) makes
up its collective mind about the general direction that Davidson College will take in the next, say, fifty years.

As we see it—and, at that, very generally—there are two possible directions in which this institution may move, two possible
goals that the College may embrace. We might analogously denote these two directions as “The Sewanee Direction” and “The Williams
Direction.” Again reminding ourselves of the generalities involved, what could we presume to see should we view Davidson College 20
years from now after it took off on one of the other of the above-mentioned “Directions?”

Should Davidson embark in the “Sewanee Direction,” we imagine that she would remain pretty much the same kind of institution
that she is today, with the natural progressions that 20 years would almost automatically bring. The library would probably have
at least 50 percent more volumes. There would be a new dormitory. National fraternities would still go through their rites
of bidding and pledgeship. The majority of the Board of Trustees would be representatives of the Presbyterian Church, and there
would still be an emphasis on Protestant Christianity, though perhaps in some different form than it is today. The composition
of the student body would, in all likelihood, be much the same as it is now. There would still be
many boys who Mommy and Daddy sent off to a good “safe” school to get that all-important (both for social
and economic reasons) degree. Davidson would still be the place to go if you wanted a fairly good education plus
good parties, social graces, protection from the depersonalization of a big university. This is the place for the idealist, the
person who has already envisioned what he will be when he leaves Davidson.

And what if Davidson takes the hypothetical “Williams Direction?” We can imagine a campus free from the encumbrances of a
selective fraternity system, a campus where every man is accepted as a social equal, at least officially. Of course, there
would be something to take the place of fraternities—some kind of non-selective eating clubs. In all likelihood, all compulsory religious
exercises would be abolished. There would probably be no rules against the drinking of alcoholic beverages on the campus, the
assumption being that mature men know that they cannot get an education with a highball in their hands every minute.
Social life in general would reflect a great deal more maturity and would be a lot more fun. Educationally, the
College would be far superior to what it is today. If the “Oath” were removed, the College would offer a
much bigger attraction to outstanding scholars and teachers. Obviously, it would be much more difficult academically, but with the greater
social freedom and mobility would come an increased appreciation of things intellectual. The atmosphere would be more sophisticated and cosmopolitan;
we might even have more than the present handful of Negroes, and perhaps a communist and an atheist on the
faculty. And, most importantly, Davidson College would no longer be a “safe” place to send one’s son. It could well
be that four years could change several freshmen into completely worthless radicals, even beatniks. But, by the same token, four
years at such a Davidson could produce many more outstanding contributors in the scholarly fields of history, sociology, English, political
science, etc.; more men who are qualified to make their marks in the arts; music, painting, literature, etc.; and, yes,
more men who would be more effectual members of the Christian clergy and/or laity.

And, thus it is that, in a very real sense, no decision should be made at this point regarding the
future of fraternities on the Davidson campus. The direction of the College must first be ascertained. For if the “Sewanee
Direction” is chosen, then there is a place for competitive, selective national fraternities. But, on the other hand, if the
College should choose to move in the “Williams Direction,” then exclusive fraternities have no place whatsoever on this campus. Where
are we going, Gentlemen?

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Fite Predicts A ‘Zitty City’

Dear Editor:

Princeton of the South? What a misnomer! It's a lot nearer Bob Jones University of the North (not to be
confused with our own Bob Jones). A Christian institution such as Davidson ought to stop trying to fool people and
should be honest about its true nature—if the school continues in its present direction, the academic standards of Davidson will
be the only facet favorable to Princeton. A new name should be adopted—Zitty City, the Advanced Academic Prep School. The
characteristics of this wonderful school could be plentiously extolled such as enforced study, no drinking, no social activities above the
junior high level, enforced pseudo-religion, and most important—absolute protection from any exposure to society as a reality. The fraternity evaluation
committee can really be considered fair—yeah, with a couple of neutrals and the ramrodding of radical opponents of the fraternities.
Anybody knows that universal misery is far better than limitations of a few. If everyone can't be socially equal in
the farcical utopian of Davidson activities, then no one should be allowed to enjoy himself.

There are several other inequalities at Davidson that need to be investigated and corrected. Why not do away with anyone
having cars? Those on academic scholarships can't have them, and some people don't have enough money—so no one should be
allowed to have a car at school. Why have cars or fraternities anyway—as proposed, the school could plan social events.
Can't you just see the Davidson student body on buses headed en masse for a mixer at Randolph-Macon! Maybe the
student council would pass a regulation allowing students to carry flasks in their back pockets—if they keep them buttoned. What
kind of student will want to come to the desolate humanity-starved Davidson that appears to be not far off? The
last means of escape from academia are in danger of being taken away with no real alternatives. Such an atmosphere
will breed only a bunch of zits (strange study-mongers) and will certainly discourage the well-rounded young men that the Davidson
admission office huffs and puffs (and bluffs) so much about.

Julian K. Fite
Davidson College
