ABBOTT COMMENDS NEW MISCELLANY (See Page Two) VOL. LV

The Cambridge Debaters Norman Stewart Hughes Lamont and John Christopher Davies (center) are flanked by Davidson debaters Tom Earnhardt (left) and Mike Mooty (right).

THE GREAT DEBATE
The topic of the debate was the United States policy in Southeast Asia, including the issue of U.S. involvement in Viet Nam, following their split debate Wednesday night. (Staff Photo by Purvis.)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1965

Council Scraps Ballots

The Student Council on Monday night modified its previous action on the oath of office taken by all Council and Honor Court members. The Council voted 9-0 to insert in the oath the words “(I) will be responsible to uphold all other provisions of the Constitution.” In last week's action, the body had deleted the clause making Council and Court members honor bound to report any infractions of the Constitution, including Student Body regulations.

The change came out of a Friday meeting of the Student-Faculty Conference Committee. At the Council meeting, John Burks, Honor Court member who has been active in trying to bring about a revision of the Student Body Regulations, reported, “I was very pleasantly surprised at the reaction of the faculty members toward the idea. The new insertion will not compromise our position at all."

“There was a sort of ‘wait-and-see’ attitude among most of the faculty and administration members,” said Chuck Matthews. Burks reported that in a Friday morning meeting with President D. Grier Martin; Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty; Bill Council, student body president; and Council members Billy Clark and Dave Powell, neither administration member expressed any dissatisfaction with Council action, though they felt there was a vacuum of responsibility with the original deletion from the oath of office.

FIVE HOLIDAY GAMES
'Cats Face Tough Slate
By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Lefty Driesell’s up-and-coming Wildcats tangle with five tough cage outfits during the coming Christmas holidays, highlighted by the third annual Charlotte Invitational Tournament. The ‘Cats open their holiday slate on campus Saturday against Dartmouth, then meet Ohio University, Navy, William and Mary, and either Princeton or Mississippi State in the 11,666-seat Charlotte Coliseum. After the holidays, Driesell takes his team to Richmond for a conference tilt with the Spiders on Jan. 4.

The opening game of the Charlotte tournament Dec. 28 pits Mississippi State against Princeton, while host team Davidson faces Navy in the nightcap. The following evening the winners of the Tuesday games meet for the championship after the consolation match at 7:30.

Princeton, second runner-up for the NCAA National championships last year, boasts four starters from that squad. The Tigers stand undefeated so far this season, having trounced Lafayette, Army, Villanova, and Navy. The Naval Academy will bring a seasoned team, led by 6-3 guard Bill Radcliffe, who holds the Academy scoring record for a single game with 41 points. Assisting Radcliffe will be forwards Jim Snook and Chris Reddington. Reddington, a 6-4 senior, has averaged 25 points for the season.

Mississippi State is the big question mark in the tourney. According to Driesell, “We haven't been able to scout Mississippi State yet. Frankly, we don’t know a thing about them.”

DARTMOUTH
This weekend the ‘Cats play host to Dartmouth in the first cage encounter between the two schools. The Indians posted a disappointing 4-21 record last year but are a much stronger team this season. According to Assistant Coach Warren Mitchell, “Inexperience hurt Dartmouth last year. Just about all their boys were sophomores, but now, with a year’s experience under their belts, they should be developing into a real fine ball club.”

The Dartmouth roster includes seven returning lettermen, led by forwards Pete Dunlop and Gunner Malm, plus guard Steve Schaffer. The lineup includes sophomore guard Joe Coigan, who stands only 5-9 in height.

OHIO
On Dec. 21 Davidson faces the Bobcats of Ohio University, co-champions of the Mid-American Conference, in the Charlotte Coliseum. Anchoring the Bobcat quintet will be center John Schroeder, a 6-9 junior from Norwalk, Ohio. Schroeder has been averaging 16 points a game, while hauling down rebounds to the tune of 14 per night. Topping Ohio's scoring charts is forward Ken Fowlkes, a 6-4 junior from Columbus, Ohio. Fowlkes has been averaging 16.3 points per game, while averaging 10 rebounds every tilt. However, injuries sustained in a recent auto accident have curtailed Fowlkes’ play. The junior forward has been benched for the last two games, but is listed as a probable starter for the Davidson tilt.

Alternating at the other forward spot will be 6-3 junior Russ Hamilton and 6-5 junior Phil Williams. Starting at guard will be 5-10 Mike Hammond and 6-0 Dave Brown. Hammond and Brown have been averaging seven and eight points per game, respectively.

WM. & MARY
Mitchell expects a tough game with William and Mary on New Year's Day in the Coliseum. According to Mitchell, “William and Mary has a real good club. All their starters from last year are back, and they have a real good crop of sophomores to provide depth.” Guard Walter Wenk returns with a 14.3 scoring average and a reputation as a fine defensive player. Seniors Larry Paffath and Tim Walter will man the front court positions, with 6-6 center Ben Pomeroy and 6-2 Ron Panneton rounding out the lineup. Panneton led the freshman team in scoring last year.

RICHMOND
On Jan. 4 the ‘Cats meet the University of Richmond on the opponent's home court. Guard Johnny Moates and forward Tom Green will lead the Spiders, who finished the season last year with a 10-16 record. Davidson won the last encounter, 83-73.

IFC Gives Procedure For Bids
The fraternities have made their decisions about the freshmen. As the 1965-66 rushing period ends, the freshmen must, in the next two weeks, make their decisions about the fraternities. The IFC will mail bids to freshmen on Saturday. Bids must be returned to the IFC representative of the selected fraternity before the close of the Christmas holidays.

Johnny Jeter, IFC Rush Committee chairman, said that in order to avoid confusion, freshmen should make their decisions as soon as possible and return the bid that they choose. Due to the possible confusion in the holiday mail rush, Jeter advised, “If any freshman has received no communication at all from the IFC by Christmas, he should call me collect at (803) 427-2665 in Union, S. C.” He said that no trouble is anticipated, but freshmen should keep the above number just in case. He also pointed out that everyone who is still out for rush will receive a letter from the IFC, whether they receive a bid or not.

Both freshmen and fraternity men should note also that the final period of silence begins at the end of classes, at 12:10 on Saturday afternoon and lasts until 8 a.m., Jan. 3, 1966. During this period, the only contact allowed between fraternity men and freshmen is a salutatory greeting.

FRESHMEN GET THE SPIRIT
Even though none of them will awake Christmas morning to find presents beneath it, freshmen of the second floor of Cannon Hall remind all of the coming of Yuletide with their lighted tree on the roof of Cannon’s porch. (Staff Photo by Purvis.)

Newspaper Offers Jobs, Scholarships
Applications are now available for the 1966 newspaper internship program of The Newspaper Fund, which awards a $500 scholarship to selected applicants upon completion of three months of full-time newspaper work. Last summer two Davidson students participated in the program, which is supported by grants from The Wall Street Journal. They are John Todd and Walt Drake. Todd worked for The News and Courier in Charleston, S. C., and Drake worked for The Atlanta Constitution.

Positions are available during the summer months on a number of newspapers which cooperate in The Newspaper Fund program. The Fund is particularly interested in receiving applications from juniors in colleges where students have no opportunities for formal courses in journalism; this, however, does not preclude members of other classes who are interested in any kind of newspaper work. Students who have worked professionally as beginning reporters, photographers, or copy editors, part-time or full-time, are not eligible for the program. A winner must work a minimum of 10 weeks for the newspaper that employs him. In addition to the salary earned as a newspaper reporter, the journalist is awarded the $500 grant by The Wall Street Journal at the end of the summer.

Interested students should contact John Todd, editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Application deadline is Jan. 10, 1966.

Kuykendall Proposals Deferred
By JOHN BAILEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A petition presented to Bill Council, president of the Student Council, concerning a revamping of Honor Court policy and procedure will not be voted upon until second semester. The petition, read in chapel Monday, calls for the Honor Court to draw up “a definite procedure” and certainChanges in the organization of the Court as regards defense counseling and prosecutions. It also proposes that the word “ordinarily” be inserted in the Honor Code, Article VII, Section 5, so that this article would read: “Every student found guilty of violating any section of this Article shall ordinarily be dismissed from the college." The last proposal in the petition calls for the addition of a sixth section to Article VII which would compel the Honor Court to observe “compassion and understanding" in dealing with defendants. George Kuykendall, organizer of the petition, agreed to postpone the vote upon the petition until the second semester in order that freshmen would be able to vote upon the proposal, especially since a number of freshmen signed the petition.

EDITOR ANALYZES NUMBER ONE DUKES (See Page Three)

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Plans New Referendum Voting Irregularities, Misinformation Cited

The Student Council decided yesterday not to count the ballots on the Student Body Regulations referendum held in Chapel Tuesday. At a meeting held yesterday for the purpose of tabulating the vote of the student body for revamping the regulations, the Council discussed many aspects of the manner in which the referendum was held. They determined that it would be better to back up and go through the entire procedure after the Christmas holidays in an effort to abide more strictly with constitutional provisions for amendment of the Student Body Regulations.

The referendum evolved from a proposal made by John Burks, senior member of the Honor Court, that the student body vote on what sections it would be willing to enforce. The present regulations make students “duty bound” to report infractions of Student Body Regulations. Bill Council, president of the student body, expressed regret that matters had been hurried to such an extent that the student body as a whole was not fully aware of just what was involved in the vote. He was quick to emphasize that “the ballots were not tallied” before the decision of the Council to hold a new referendum was made. Council stated that there was “no precedent for doing it this way.” He was referring to the fact that the proposal for a referendum along with a complete reading of the issue to be voted upon and a discussion with the student body of the situations involved was not presented at least five days prior to the voting as required in Article XI, Section 2, of the Student Body Constitution. Council feels, and the Council concurs, that “there is no sense in not making sure that we do it exactly right.”

The decision to hold a new vote was made on the basis of the Council's feeling that some students had turned in more than one ballot, and also from the belief that everyone was not fully aware of the fact that the vote was not a “straw vote” but rather a genuine referendum which would invoke lasting changes in the Student Body Regulations. As the situation now stands, Council will read the proposed referendum ballot before the entire student body the Tuesday after the Christmas recess. The formal procedure of individual balloting, involving checking off each student’s name as he votes and the use of ballot boxes, will be followed. The vote will probably be held the Monday and Tuesday of the week after the referendum is read. The referendum will still involve a vote on each of the eight sections of the Student Body Regulations. Each student will cast his vote to retain or repeal the sections individually. As the Constitution states in Article XI, Section 2: “A two-thirds vote of those present and entitled to vote shall be necessary for an amendment to be adopted.” Freshmen will still be ineligible to vote. Council believes that holding a new referendum “won't affect the vote.” He assumed the responsibility for the problem and the necessity of holding a second balloting.

Journalist Howe To Speak Jan. 4

Russell Howe, African affairs correspondent for the Washington Post, will speak in assembly Jan. 4. Howe had previously been scheduled to speak Nov. 2, but illness of his wife forced him to cancel his previous engagement. The journalist has covered the African continent for more than 10 years and has become acquainted with leading figures on that continent. Considered an expert on African political, economic and social affairs, he has covered all major Pan-African conferences, rebellions, revolutions, political upheavals and colonial problems.

UNION PARTY Fabulous Five To Play

The annual Union Christmas party, featuring the Karl Boxer Trio and the Fabulous Five, will be held tomorrow night from 7:30 until 2:30.

Faculty Drinking Action Gets Varied Response

The latest result of the faculty’s action on the drinking issue has been generally accepted as a more realistic settlement than the more restrictive earlier rules. Hansford Epes, German instructor, expressed satisfaction in “taking the fraternity after-parties out of a gray area in which drinking was not known to be legal or not.” Dr. J. G. Martin, a member of the joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on Alcoholic Beverages, which initiated the change, explained the history of the Davidson afterparty. “In the early 1950s the fraternities thought of having birthday parties to evade the rule outlawing drinking at events of the college organizations. Then the afterparty came into being in the late ‘50s.” “This rule is more realistic,” Martin continued, “because it will eliminate most of the irrational regulations. It doesn't seem likely that athletes and band members will be begging to get drunk on college trips.” The change was influenced by complaints issued by Heath Whittle, assistant director of athletics, and Dan Campbell, chairman of the Social Council. Whittle argued that although there would be no problem in controlling the discipline problem this year, it would be best to guard against unforeseen elements in the future. Campbell feared that the social council would be pressured into having all social functions off campus. Ernest Patterson, economics professor, argued that the rule as it now stands is much less satisfactory from the standpoint of facing the reality of the situation than the October ruling. “As it stands now, if the facts were known, a real problem could exist on campus without anyone realizing it.” Athletic Director Tom Scott felt that the change was a beneficial one. “We wanted some protection for the coaches,” Dr. Scott said. “There would be no problem for football and basketball,” he continued, “because they travel in buses or planes, but minor sports often use private cars. Though we didn't anticipate any problems, it would have developed.” Dr. J. W. Reid Jr., professor of geography, expressed surprise over the change in faculty sentiment. “There was a close vote on the first change, but the second was almost overwhelming.” Reid said he had opposed the first change and voted in favor of the second, which “didn’t change the rules appreciably,” he said.

The trio, a jazz group, will play in the main dining room. Boxer, who records on the Dot label, has appeared at several other schools in this area, and has been very well received. Along with his group, Boxer will bring a comedian currently playing in a Charlotte night club to entertain during intermissions. For those who wish to dance, the Fabulous Five will be featured in the Morrison Room from 8 until 12. A student talent show will be held during a break in their performance, and door prizes will be given away. Following the Five, the Aces Wild will play until 2:30. In the private dining room next to the Morrison Room, there will be performances throughout the evening by Bill Spooner, a magician and card sharp. He will present at least four shows, with the first beginning between 8 and 8:30.

HOLIDAY ISSUE

With this special four-page issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN suspends publication until after the Christmas holidays. The next issue will be on Friday, Jan. 7, 1966. Only one DAVIDSONIAN will be published in January, with publication again ceasing for first semester examinations.

An artist, Shadow Nelson, will be in the lobby sketching black and white caricatures. These will be available to anyone, free of charge. Downstairs in the Student Store Game Room, there will be a pool exhibition by Bill Staton, who finished second to Wimpy Lassiter in the 1963 World's Pocket Billiards Championship Tournament. Staton will give at least three performances, between which the pool tables will be available for use by the students at no cost. Play will be on a first-come, first-served basis, with a half-hour time limit. Game booths will be located downstairs, and will offer prizes to the best performers. Also featured will be the voting in the “Ugliest Man” contest, which is between candidates nominated by the fraternities. Upstairs there will be Christmas caroling, led by Assistant Dean Tom Covington. Movies will be shown in the Wildcat Room from 7 until 2:30. These will include Laurel and Hardy in “When Comedy Was King,” “The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance” and “The Hustler,” with Paul Newman. According to Assistant Director Sterling Martin, this party promises to be “one of the best Union parties ever. Anyone, with or without a date, is welcome to come.”