THOMAS ANALYZES KASHMIR CRISIS (See Page Two)

VOL. LV

“Very entertaining and appealing”

WEEKEND

You didn’t have to pack a suitcase... you really didn’t have to go up the road... you really didn’t have
to leave campus... it was all right here.

What it was was a football weekend at Davidson complemented by the offerings of the newly formed Social Council. For
special DAVIDSONIAN pictorial coverage, see page eight.

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1965

Debaters Face Tough New Competition

The debate team began work this week with only one goal—to win. In sessions with the varsity and novice teams,
Ray McMillan, debating instructor, stressed the need to develop a tough, aggressive attitude tempered by severe discipline.

For the first time in recent years, he pointed out, the Davidson Debaters will be on the road facing rigid
competition. This schedule is highlighted by a Cambridge vs. Davidson debate on Dec. 18. Prior to this bout with the
Englishmen, the Davidson Debaters will face teams from all over the East.

Already, the first three weekends of the season are scheduled as the Davidson team travels to the Tarheel Tournament on
Oct. 22, the Dixie Invitational on Oct. 29, and the Peachtree tournament on Nov. 5, sponsored by the Barkley Forum.
This travel is made possible by a nominal budget, another new feature of the debate program.

In the next few weeks, the team will be in intensive training. Independent research will be supplemented by sessions with
district attorneys, city managers, and law-enforcement agents, all of whom are experts in the investigation and prosecution of crime. This
should give depth to the debaters’ consideration of the 1965 resolution: Resolved: “That law enforcement agencies should be given greater
freedom in the investigation and prosecution of crime.”

McMillan plans to push the team hard: he will pile at least two practice debates a week on top of
this load of research and lectures. Part of McMillan’s strategy for making Davidson a leader in forensics is to invite
high schools to a Davidson-sponsored tournament. This invitational meet would feature top teams from Virginia and North Carolina. The Davidson
Debaters will serve as judges and timekeepers.

The debaters are optimistic about the new program. President Tom Earnhardt, who pushed last year for a coach and a
budget, summed up the observations of both veterans and freshmen, as he remarked, “This guy (McMillan) likes to win.” McMillan
himself, speaking from the stage of Hodson Hall said, “You speakers had better get used to me being here, because
that’s where I'll be all the time—right on top of you, every minute.”

Captures Scholarship Award

The 1964-65 scholastic averages of the Davidson Student Body revealed a slight increase in both the All Men’s Average and
All Fraternity Average from their 1963-64 figures. The All Men’s Average was 1.698 in 1963-64 and rose to 1.716 in
the 1964-65 session. The All Fraternity Average went from 1.695 in 1963-64 to 1.736 in 1964-65.

A statistical comparison of the averages of the various classes and fraternities for the two years is as follows:

CLASS OR FRATERNITY 1964-65 1963-64
Senior Class 1.831 1.878
Junior Class 1.679 1.672
Sophomore Class 1.672 1.721
Freshman Class 1.625 1.545
Sigma Nu 1.655 1.639
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.852 1.750
Sigma Chi 1.807 1.759
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.798 1.724
Alpha Tau Omega 1.749 1.811
Kappa Sigma 1.710 1.645
Kappa Alpha 1.707 1.612
Pi Kappa Phi 1.679 1.571
Beta Theta Pi 1.677 1.793
Phi Delta Theta 1.672 1.679
Phi Gamma Delta 1.596 1.650

Complaints Over Food Service

By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The newly-appointed manager of the College Union cafeteria received numerous complaints from students this week concerning what they believe to
be the poorer food and inadequate service, which prevails despite a $25 per year increase in the meal ticket price.

A group of sophomores, critical of unsanitary conditions and inefficiency in serving, as well as of the quality and variety
of food, met with Manager Harry Hill, who came to Davidson from Wake Forest where he was assistant manager of
the Slater Food Service division. In addition, a number of freshmen expressed complaints to the Student Council about the quality
and service of the food at the Union.

The sophomores, Ron Dougherty, Carter Fussell, Mike Coltrane and Dick Spencer complained of the health hazards resulting from unclean silverware
and from large numbers of flies in both dining and kitchen areas. They pointed out that many foods, especially meat
dishes, appear regularly at several meals in succession. They particularly complained that vegetables apparently left over from the buffet last
Saturday night were served again on Sunday.

Student Council Approves Proposals

The Student Council met for the first time this year Monday and approved 13 proposals which will serve as the
basis for a platform for the coming year. Bill Council, president of the Student Council, said he hoped to compile
these 13 proposals into a platform which would be printed and distributed to the student body. The platform would give
the students insight into what the Council is doing and increase interest in its various projects.

The main proposals were for liberalization of the Vespers attendance rule, establishment of a free cut system, increase in the
number of campus telephones and establishment of a course evaluation system.

The dormitory phone dilemma is not new to anyone who has tried to find an available phone on campus. Watts
and Little Dorms have only one phone each, and the Union has but one public phone. With the freshmen unable
to use the phones in the fraternity houses the first semester, the problem will probably be worse than in the
past and the Council hopes to alleviate the problem by having more phones installed.

The proposed course evaluation would give pertinent information on the type and quality of instruction in all courses in the
curriculum. It would enable the student to choose the most worthwhile, beneficial courses for his particular interests.

Freshman’s Love Life At Computer’s Mercy

By AL VARNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Has the “brave new world” come to Davidson? Will the love lives of the freshmen be determined by a machine?
Who knows—but at present, some of the difficulties of freshman mixers are being solved by a computer which arranged dates
for the freshmen the past two weekends. The girls were freshmen from Converse on Sept. 11 and from Queens on
Saturday and the basis of the pairings was a questionnaire filled out by all three classes.

These questionnaires were distributed to the Davidson and Converse freshmen on Sept. 9 and the Davidson IBM machine worked on
them all the next day. On Saturday the eleventh the Davidson freshmen assembled in Chambers Auditorium to receive their fate
in the form of IBM cards with their dates’ names typed on them. Five boys turned out to be so
compatible that they received cards with a red border on them, meaning that they had no date and were free
to mix with, or “snake” as the case may be, their friends’ dates. The procedure was repeated with Queens the
next weekend.

GOOD LOOKING?

Some of the 40-odd questions and possible responses on the questionnaire concerned how good looking the freshman was (extremely), how
much he liked to date (more than 20 times a month), how many people he had dated in high school
(over 40) and how many children he wanted (more than 8). Some of the freshmen are still very curious about
the significance of that last question.

As for results, well let’s just say everyone had a date and leave it at that. Not that many of
the boys weren’t completely satisfied, but some of the pairings were, in the boys’ opinions, less than ideal. One swore
his date never said a word—“She just made noises.” Another claimed his had a moustache and still another complained that
he got a senior when he asked for a freshman. In Watts dorm, the boys drew straws and the loser
had to let his dorm-mates fill out his questionnaire. It was rumored that he wound up with the bus driver.

ACTIVITIES GALORE

But even though some of the dates weren’t too desirable, there were plenty of things to do on both weekends.
On the eleventh the girls arrived by bus about 3 p.m., and that afternoon a tennis match and a football
exhibition were held.That night a dance and a movie were sponsored, the latter offering much relief to those with “pigs.”
Last weekend everyone went to the football game in the afternoon, and again a dance and a movie were offered.

DATE SWAPPING

At both mixers, especially the second one where many people were left without dates, there was a considerable amount of
swapping, bartering, losing, and stealing girls of every description. In all cases, though, it was done with the tact of
a perfect Davidson gentleman. “Excuse me, I think I'll leave my coat in my room. I’ll only be gone a
couple of hours.”

Last week when Queens came, many boys had already made their dates, apparently not wanting to try the computer again.
In two or three weeks, the last computer mixer will be held with Salem and again the girls will come
here. So perk up freshman, they say the third time’s a charm.

Bb 4h PME Ao were served on Sunday and Monday. Hill told the committee that he hoped an exterminator would
be able to alleviate the fly problem on Monday afternoon. As of Wednesday afternoon, the problem, according to several students,
had not been solved. Hill assured the students that stains on silverware were not from food, but were rather from
dried detergent. According to one person, students continue to pull dirty silverware from the racks on the serving line and
to pile it on the counter.

In answer to criticism about lack of variety in food, Hill promised that there would always be two new meat
dishes at meals. He said he would try to increase the choice of foods at breakfast, pointing out that on
Sundays already students may order their choice of eggs. The group told Hill that milk, napkins, and silverware frequently run
out soon after the serving lines open, and that delays result. He apologized for this inefficiency. In response to complaints
about slow removal of trays after the students finish eating, he told the group that he had ordered new racks
for the trays, but that they had not arrived yet. Because of other requests from the group, Hill put up
a suggestion box and said he would try to post the menu. In addition, Hill announced that he welcomed inspection
of facilities by anyone at any time. The group of sophomores told Hill they would inspect the kitchen on Wednesday
afternoon. The North Carolina State Board of Health officially inspected the facilities in July of this year. As the committee
left the meeting with Hill, he asked for more time to make further corrections. He told THE DAVIDSONIAN, “I hope
to improve it all I can.”

In response to specific questions, Hill told THE DAVIDSONIAN, “They (the students) are going to get steak once a week.
We will have a salad bar on Sunday,” as was the policy last year. To a complaint that fruit salads
and puddings were left unrefrigerated Saturday night, Hill said that they were thrown away. “One girl neglected to put them
away before she went home,” he added. Last Sunday night there were stains on the floor near one of the
serving lines from an orange drink which had not been cleaned up. There were similar stains from iced tea near
the snack bar. Occasional scraps of paper and cigarette butts were seen on the floor of both the serving areas
and kitchen areas several hours after the janitors had left. Asked about the Davidson branch of Slater’s as compared to
other branches, Hill commented, “There's room for improvement.”

C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, who arranged and attended the meeting between Hill and the sophomores, said
he had previously pointed out to Hill several things which he thought should be corrected. When questioned about the formal
relationship between the college and Slater’s, Robert A. Currie, college Business Manager, said that the college has set up definite
standards concerning the quality of food purchased, preparation of food, and minimum sanitary conditions. “We want the best food service
that we can have and still keep the price increases as low and gradual as possible,” Currie explained. The recent
increase was from $400 to $425 per year for a meal ticket. “As far as I'm concerned, they've got to
do it right. The ticket holder is most important,” Currie continued. “I would like to hear any complaint,” he remarked,
“so that I can pass it on to the cafeteria manager.”

Jim Stokes, chairman of the Honor Court, attended the meeting for the purpose of presenting a booklet that Britt Snider
had prepared concerning the Davidson Honor Code, its history, and its purpose. Since the Honor Court does not have its
own budget, Stokes asked the Student Council to donate the money necessary for the printing costs. The Council voted unanimously
to foot the bill for the publication of the booklet.

Dave Powell, freshman advisor, announced that there would be a freshman assembly on Wednesday and that any important business should
be handled at that time. Stokes informed Powell that the Honor Court members were slated to be introduced at that
time and that the booklets would be presented to them.

Julian Prosser announced that the lock on the door to the gun room had been changed, necessitating a reissue of
keys to those students who have already placed their guns in the room. Prosser must grant special permission for students
to keep guns in the trunks of their cars and under no circumstances may they be kept in dormitory rooms.

Paul Marion was appointed to look into the matter of the “disappearing drink machines.” It had been reported that there
was only one drink machine in the dormitories, whereas there previously had been three or four.

Chris Hawk, freshman hall counselor, presented a gripe from his hall that the food in the Union was low in
both quality and quantity. He suggested that there be a joint committee established between the Student Council and the Freshman
Council to investigate the possibilities of improving the situation. Dave Powell requested that the matter be left up to the
Freshman Council and said that they could discuss the matter at their first meeting on Tuesday.

Council announced that a poll would be taken later in the week to determine student interest in the opening of
the gymnasium at night, provided that it meets with the approval of basketball coach Lefty Driesell.

CLARK VIEWS LOS ANGELES RIOTS (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWO

Council Approves Plan For Year’s Activities

First Meeting Is Scene Of Ambitious Program

The Student Council held its first meeting of the year.

COUNCIL CHAIRMAN DIRECTS WEEKEND

Calls Weekend “Very Satisfactory”

Weekend Functions Draw Large Crowd

The Social Council’s first venture into the realm of Davidson College social life was an unqualified success, according to Dan
Campbell, chairman of the council. “I think the weekend was more of a success than any of us anticipated," remarked
Campbell. “Both fraternity and non-fraternity men agreed that the evening as a whole was very satisfactory. I was really encouraged
when people I expected not to like it told me that they had enjoyed themselves."

The committee sold 1,250 tickets for the buffet supper, and an even larger number of people attended the street dance
behind Chambers which followed the buffet. There was practically a full house for the movie, shown in the Morrison Room
of the Union for those who preferred not to dance. Campbell commented that Saturday was a trial period for the
Social Council and that the successful outcome of the evening has influenced plans for future events. He did not specify
any changes, however. “The main idea is to have these parties when the boys’ dates are on campus," asserted Campbell.

In following this idea, we have booked combos for the night of every Saturday on which there is a home
football or basketball game. The Social Council has plans for seven more on-campus events this semester.

Voting Scheduled For Court Vacancy

Juniors will vote Thursday after chapel to fill the Honor Court vacancy created by Davidson’s leaving school for the year.
Juniors wishing to run may file for election in Honor Court Chairman Jim Stokes’ room, 310 Richardson, between 7 and
11 p.m. Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. Runoffs, if they become necessary, will be held after chapel Oct. 4 and 5,
Stokes said. The member elected will become a permanent member of the Court.
