GERMAN STUDENT PREVIEWS ELECTION (See Page Two) VOL. LV The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1965 FRESHMAN CAMP CALLED SUCCESS (See Page Four) NUMBER ONE

(Photo by Sproul) PACK HINDSLEY SPORTS NEW UNIFORM Wildcats’ Captain Ready For PC

GRID FEVER GRIPS CAMPUS Wildcats’ New Look Unfolds Here Tomorrow By ARCH McCALLUM Assistant Sports Editor

“New” is the word that best describes Davidson football. The slate has been wiped clean; an unhappy past is being forgotten. A rare breed of enthusiasm and expectancy pervades the campus. When Head Coach Homer Smith took over in late December of 1964 he cleaned house. In came Ken Blair from Colorado, Dick Tomey from Northern Illinois, and Dave Fagg from The Citadel to serve as assistants. No member of the new varsity coaching staff has ever gone into battle with the Wildcats. Only alumnus Fagg has ever even seen a Southern Conference game. With them the new regime brought a completely new system—a defense with such unheard of positions as container, tackler, and interceptor; an offense so revolutionary that it doesn't even have a name.

“TWEENER BACK” The offense is characterized by a “tweener back,” who lines up halfway between the positions a halfback and a wingback would assume, and at a 45 degree angle to the direction of his teammates. According to Coach Smith he should be just as effective there as at a regular wingback position. There also will be a spread end, primarily a pass receiver, on the same side as the “tweener back.” The defense features four linemen (two “anchors” and two “containers”), two “corner” men, who are actually part ends and part backs, two inside linebackers or “tacklers,” two “interceptors,” and one “cover” man, responsible for covering for his teammates’ aggressive mistakes. Despite the innovations, the coaches have, during the last six months, visited the campuses of such major powers as Alabama, Notre Dame, Florida State, Indiana and Wake Forest. Says Coach Smith, “We're not copying, but we don’t want anyone to have a good idea we don't take advantage of.”

STADIUM RENOVATION Summer saw the refurbishing of Richardson Field at an expense of $100,000. This first major work on the stadium since 1924 provided for new fiberglass seats and a sandblasting job on the stands. When the ’Cats hit the field tomorrow they will be sporting new uniforms. Last year's black helmets are now silver, as are the pants. The jerseys are black with silver numerals outlined in red. Perhaps the most important aspect of the genesis of the Smith era is the new attitude, in all quarters. Coach Smith is determined “to stop this wholesale losing. We must try to win the conference,” he said. “It doesn’t matter how many games you win, but how well you do in your conference.” His determination is blended with confidence—in his system, in his staff and in his players. The coaches’ spirit is shared by the players. All have conditioned themselves during the summer and every one ran a faster quarter mile on the first day of fall practice than at the last spring practice. Even the students, long apathetic, and alumni, scarce around here in recent falls, have indicated considerable interest.

DEAD LAST? All is not new, however. Davidson is still picked for dead last in the conference in nearly every pre-season poll. There is a dearth of weight, speed and depth. Coach Smith intends to counteract these liabilities with conditioning and precise execution. Said he: “You can nullify a weight or speed advantage with conditioning and precise execution, but you can never replace the latter.” Richardson Field may possibly hold its biggest crowd yet tomorrow. Appearance will be new and different. So will the spirit in the stands. And hopefully a new tradition of victory will be initiated, to be augmented on each ensuing Saturday throughout the fall.

279 Freshmen Join Ranks To Begin Four-Year Stint Ten New Men Become Part Of College Family

Six new professors and four new members of the administration have joined the Davidson College staff for the fall session, and one professor has returned after a two-year leave of absence. Among the new faculty members is Prof. Marlin Ray McMillin, instructor in speech and debate, who received his BA from Henderson State Teachers College and his MA from the University of Arkansas. Dr. Jerry Allen Roberts, assistant professor of mathematics, is a specialist in applied mathematics, numerical analysis and computer programming. He took his BA, MS and PhD from N. C. State University. Dr. Alexander Jeffrey McKelway, assistant professor of Bible and religion, is a Davidson graduate and returns to his Alma Mater from Dartmouth College. He has served as pastor of the Community Church in Vienna, Austria. He earned the BD degree from Princeton Seminary and the PhD degree from the University of Basel, Switzerland. Dr. Hallam Walker, associate professor of French, taught at Duke University for two years before coming to Davidson. He received his BA, MA and PhD degrees from Princeton University. Prof. Albert Allen Wolf, assistant professor of physics, earned the BA and MA degrees from Vanderbilt University. Dr. Wayland J. Hayes is the visiting distinguished professor of sociology for the first semester. Professor emeritus of Vanderbilt University, he received the BS degree from the University of Virginia and the MS and PhD degrees from Columbia University. Dr. J. B. Stroud II is a Davidson graduate and is returning to the mathematics department as assistant professor after a two-year leave of absence to complete his PhD at the University of Virginia. Three of the four new members of the administration are 1965 graduates of Davidson. Zach Long joins the staff as assistant director of alumni activities; Fred Sackett holds the position of assistant to the president; and Bob Orr is serving as assistant director of admissions. Thomas Covington Jr., also a Davidson graduate, is the fourth new administration staff member and serves as assistant dean of students.

(Staff Photo by Thel) MRS. RICHARD BURTS GIVES ‘69ER THE WORD Chaplain Will Terry Meditates In Background

Social Council To Stage Street Dance A fried chicken buffet, featuring music by “The Enchanters,” and a street dance with “The Platters” for Homecoming. Other members of the council are Vice-Chairman Rocky Walk- spending a great deal of time in making the social program a good one. Furthermore, because

Complete Orientation Termed Success Two hundred and seventy-nine budding Davidson gentlemen have completed the necessary preliminaries known as freshmen orientation and have now assumed the traditional label as the best class in Davidson’s history. A two-day camp and subsequent matriculation period provided a more than adequate preparation for the students, according to Freshman Advisor David Powell. “Everyone has cooperated real well in making a success out of orientation,” Powell said, as he expressed his pleasure with the attitudes of the freshmen so far. He felt that the freshmen were making the transition into college life very easily and that the orientation period has been a complete success.

FULL OF ENERGY The entire freshman class seems especially full of energy. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr., commented on the great amount of spirit that its members seem to have and their apparent eagerness to get things done. Burts was complimentary of the orientation programming. He noted three ways in which he felt the more relaxed at- deal with rush and its problems right at first has been a help. When asked about making a statistical comparison of this year's freshman class with previous ones, H. Edmunds White, director of admissions, was quick to emphasize the potential that is spread throughout the class. But he reiterated President Martin's warning to the class that “past accomplishments only mean that they are prepared to meet the challenge to come.”

HALL UNITY The freshman hall counselors for the first time have the additional job of being freshman advisors, and their responsibilities have been somewhat increased. They feelthat the entire class is learning to work together more easily than most have in the past. Eric Nichols said that “not having fraternity rush has provided hall unity in that now the boys can take the time to learn to be together.” Swinging Medallions" will highlight tomorrow night's postgame festivities as the newly-activated function of the year. The buffet will be held in front of the Union from 5:30 until 7 while "The Enchanters" play and the street dance in Chambers parking lot will last from 7:30 until 11:30.

IFC Head Explains New Rush Regulations

IFC President Jim Terry clarified several questions this week which have been raised concerning the new rush regulations for this year. In the extensive list of rules, the term “upperclassmen” applies only to students holding an official connection with a fraternity, Terry said. The two regulations in question are those which prevent fraternity men from any contact with freshmen in freshmen dorms or fraternity houses after 7:30 p.m. on weekdays, and which prevent “rushees” from riding in a fraternity man’s automobile through December 17, 1965. The rules were established by the IFC and not by the college, Terry pointed out, and apply only to fraternity members. Therefore, Independents are not bound in any way by the regulations and may enter the freshmen dorms at any time. Along the same line, freshmen may ride in any Independent’s automobile. Terry said that exceptions to the automobile rule will be made if specific requests are made to the IFC at least 48 hours in advance. He plans to discuss the new regulations with the freshmen class sometime in the near future at a freshmen chapel period. Terry stated that he felt that other parts of the regulations were clear and expressed his pleasure with the attitudes of both freshmen and fraternity members so far.

Viet Nam

Dr. James W. Wiggins, associate dean at Converse College, will speak at The Conservative Club's first meeting Tuesday on “Whither Viet Nam?” Dr. Wiggins, a retired lieutenant colonel in the Army Reserve, said: “While writing some instructional material for the United States Army, it became increasingly (but not surprisingly) clear that Viet Nam is a case which could be described accurately from dozens of historical antecedents. I hope in my talk to clarify the type-situations which Viet Nam represents, some informed guesses about the future and some implications of both type and case for understanding man's nature." After the meeting, Dr. Wiggins will open the floor for questions and discussion. The meeting will be held at 8 p.m. in the Green Room. The dean received his BS from Georgia Southern College and MA and PhD from Duke University. He has done graduate work at Emory University and is a graduate of Army Military Government School, National Security Seminary, and Industrial College of the Armed Forces. He was formerly chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Emory and is now professor of sociology at Converse.

By FRANK FLEMING
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Ford Foundation awarded Davidson a $2.2 million challenge grant on condition that the college secures an additional $5.5 million before June 30, 1968. Davidson is one of only five Southern liberal arts colleges to receive Ford grants, the others being Austin College, Stetson University, Southwestern, and University of the South. Selection was based on scholastic reputation, plans for improvement, leadership potential, and alumni support.

TREMENDOUS CHALLENGE

Such an honor involves the tremendous challenge of raising $5.5 million in either cash or property, according to Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development.

“All gifts, either current or capital, will be counted and appreciated. Of course, we'll be depending on our Davidson family of approximately 14,000—our alumni, faculty, parents, and friends," Sailstad added. Walter L. Lingle Jr. and William A. White Jr. will serve as national co-chairmen for the three-year drive. Lingle, class of ‘28, is executive vice-president of Proctor and Gamble Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. White, class of ‘52, serves as incoming president of the national Davidson College Alumni Association and vice-president of J. W. Rouse and Co., Inc., and Community Research and Development, Inc., Charlotte.

ORGANIZED TEAM

To assist in this extensive fund-raising campaign, Davidson will need “an organized team of perhaps 2,000 people, including trustees, faculty, parents, etc.” Sailstad is currently lining up “team leaders” and planning literature for the campaign. In President D. Grier Martin's official announcement on June 18, he indicated that this total $7.7 million program is the first step in a 10-year program to add $25.3 million to the college financial resources.

DECADE OF DESTINY

This long-range 1965-75 program is chiefly concerned with “brains and books” rather than “bricks.” The “Decade of Destiny” envisions an increased endowment that will provide “more income for faculty salaries and the instructional program.” In general, it plans “to make Davidson the equal of any liberal arts college in the country.” The formal goals of the program are “to provide an educational program second to none, to double its endowment, to acquire and hold the ablest, most imaginative teachers, to maintain a student level of 1,000 men who show outstanding leadership potential and to upgrade the present physical facilities.” Sailstad also mentioned the recent Richardson Field renovation and the increased library budget—“the largest one ever”—as two results of the Ford grant and Davidson's 10-year program.

IMPROVEMENTS PLANNED

A major part of the new funds will finance improved faculty salaries and better library facilities. Plant improvements will include a complete renovation of Chambers auditorium by means of air-conditioning, new stage and lighting equipment, and other changes. When the remodeling is completed, the hall will be named and dedicated as the J. Spencer Love Auditorium in honor of the late textile executive who served Davidson as a trustee for 12 years. Other plant changes to cost approximately $800,000 will include classroom modernization, improved campus lighting, residence hall renovations, improved facilities for athletics and physical education, new housing for non-academic employees, lake campus developments, and expanded laundry facilities. Also scheduled for the seven years between 1968 and 1975 are new library facilities to cost in excess of $2,000,000 and enlarged physical education facilities for the regular intramural and personal physical fitness programs in which over 94 percent of Davidson students participate.