PAGE FOUR

BY LOUIS LESESNE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Professor W. G. McGavock’s recent attack on subsidized athletics at Davidson would have received a more favorable reception at many
small Southern colleges. Desubsidization at these schools initially received a cool response. But after several seasons of adjustment, the “amateur”
programs have captured strong student and alumni support, according to DAVIDSONIAN correspondence.

As early as 1954, a joint faculty-trustees committee at Davidson recommended that the Trustees “authorize the President of the College
to extend an invitation to a selected group of Colleges and Universities, asking them to join with us in setting
up a Conference with a view of abolishing subsidized athletics at the earliest possible date.” No action was ever taken
at Davidson, but in January 1962, such a conference was formed, the College Athletic Conference (CAC), with Sewanee, Southwestern, Centre,
Washington and Lee, and Washington University at St. Louis as charter members. Davidson is often mentioned as a potential member
of the CAC, and Walter Bryant, Sewanee director of athletics, stated in a recent letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN, “I can
think of no school that we had rather have as our sixth member than your fine institution.”

After participating in something of a “big-time” program, all CAC members desubsidized athletics before coming together as a conference. Sewanee,
before desubsidizing in 1938, had become the “doormat of the Southeastern Conference, and what might be described as a joke
in athletics circles,” according to Bryant. Consequently, he continued, “It is simply a matter of necessity with us. If we
gave athletic scholarships, almost all the teams that we are now competing against would drop us.” Washington and Lee had
similar experiences before desubsidizing in 1954. Being forced to compete with such teams as Tennessee, Maryland, Navy, and Alabama, Washington
and Lee was forced to offer scholarships to scholastically inferior athletes, a practice incompatible with the basic goals of the
school.

Other CAC members have also long been proponents of nonsubsidized athletics: Southwestern gave up athletic scholarships in 1942, and Centre
and Washington of St. Louis in 1946. Alumni and student response to these schools’ actions has been fairly good. According
to one Davidson official, “It is my feeling... that the alumni (at these schools) are relatively happy with the present
situation.” Although there were protests from some quarters at first, most groups now accept the situation as best for their
particular institution. Reports Bryant, “Our student body takes just as much pride and is just as concerned with the success
or failure of our athletic teams as do the students of the so-called big league schools.”

Members of the CAC play only other schools having nonsubsidized athletic programs, and schools have not lost the pride in
winning merely because they no longer play big-time athletics. According to Bryant, “Desubsidization seems to have a connotation in some
circles of de-emphasis on winning. This is not the case in the Athletic Department of the University of the South.”
In 1958 and in 1963, Washington and Lee had undefeated football teams; in 1960, Washington and Lee was undefeated in
football. Scholarships at these schools are administered to all students on need, as are academic scholarships at Davidson. Although the
coaches can recommend athletes for scholarships, all financial aid is handled through a faculty committee. No student is obligated to
continue participating in a sport to renew his scholarship.

Several other non-member schools who schedule CAC teams administer athletic scholarships on a limited basis. At Hampden-Sydney, 35 to 40
football and basketball players are granted an average of less than $400 annually. Randolph-Macon also gives limited amounts to participants
in three sports. Both of these schools have declined membership in the CAC because of the prohibitive cost of travel
for the so-called “minor sports.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON DEBATES THE ISSUE
Several Schools Favor Desubsidized Athletics

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott
Fogleman
Abernethy
Fredericksen
Blackwell
Hogan
Bliss
Hopkins
Clark
King
Meeks
Puckett
Mrs. Nicholls
Secor
Outlaw
Williams
Partridge
Woods

Graham, Faw Spending Washington Semester

By RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Juniors Decker Faw and Steve Graham are participating in the Washington Semester program this semester. Davidson is one of more
than fifty selected colleges which has been invited by American University in Washington, D.C., to participate in a program whereby
undergraduate students have first-hand contact with the national capital personalities, institutions, and source materials.

Film Friends Reveal Semester Program

The Film Friends of Davidson College will open this semester's program with a showing of Birth of a Nation, directed
by D. W. Griffith, on Feb. 22 and 23. Last semester the committee tried to present a repertoire of films
which would give the community an introduction to so-called “art films.” With this background, there will be presented this semester
a specific theme—“Great Directors.” It seems apropos to begin with one of the greatest American directors, D. W. Griffith. The
film, made in 1915, is generally an account of the formative years of the United States. It lays particular emphasis
on Civil War and Reconstruction days. It has, incidentally, been considered a glorification of the Ku Klux Klan by those
who wish to see it as such. At this time, The Bond, starring Charlie Chaplin, will be shown.

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble under the direction of Prof. Grier M. Williams will present a program of varied musical
selections in chapel Tuesday. The numbers to be presented are among those which the Wind Ensemble is performing during its
four-state southern tour which ends tomorrow. Two soloists will be featured: Dick Vines, who will play some classical selections on
the clarinet; and David Hogue, who will play some modern pieces on the marimba. The Wind Ensemble will also play
several marches, a modern number, and a Spanish selection.Sewanee had GOTCHA! was shown. Six programs are scheduled for the semester
for the same price of $2.00. Season tickets can be picked up at the first showing. Some of the classics
to be offered are Rene Claire's A Nous, La Liberte, a brilliant satire on the effect of mechanization on human
beings, and Eisenstein’s Alexander Nevsky, a Russian film about the 13th-century hero-prince of Russia who led the people to a
fantastic victory over the Teutonic Knights. The film has been widely acclaimed as one of the all-time classics.

The past semester has been fairly successful. The response of the faculty and student body has been good. Due to
the high cost of the film, it was impossible to break even, but the deficit was more than compensated for
by the Morrison Room showings. The purpose of the Film Friends is to present movies that have standing in the
realm of art and that have significant content. Because of the definite theme this semester, they plan to have organized
discussions after each showing along with refreshments. There will be a designated discussion leader. Gordon Ball, chairman of the committee,
feels that these movies should be a learning process. He said, "Film Friends springs from the hope that in a
limited way the generally shallow intellectual depth of Davidson may be deepened somewhat by exposure to new ways of life
and thought."

Under this program, Davidson can send three students per semester to the School of Social Sciences and Public Affairs of
the American University, receiving credit toward their degrees from Davidson. The principal course is a seminar in which the student
meets with officials at the White House, the Congress, the Supreme Court, and other governmental and non-governmental agencies and, based
on subsequent study and personal contact while in Washington, prepares a thesis on some subject which combines his major field
of study at Davidson with some aspect of the national government or politics. In addition to this seminar, the student
generally also chooses nine hours of regular coursework at the American University.

Under a cooperative agreement, tuition is paid in the regular manner to Davidson while charges for board and room at
the American University are paid in Washington. Student participants defray their own costs for travel and other expenses. While designed
especially for social science majors and generally taken in the second semester of the junior year, the program is open
to students regardless of their major field, provided their academic work has been of a sufficiently high quality. Faw and
Graham are both members of Pi Kappa Phi, Faw having served as both secretary and treasurer of the organization. In
addition, Faw is a member of the Male Chorus, and Graham is a member of the International Relations Club.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

Summer Internship Available To Juniors

The annual North Carolina State Government Internship Program, of special interest to political science majors, will be held this summer.
This eleven-week program, sponsored by the state, enables a select group of 25 North Carolina college students “to perform responsible
duties in a state department or agency.” In addition, students will participate in an orientation period including seminars each week
on “North Carolina's economic, governmental, and related problems.” Outstanding state officials, civic leaders, and college professors will lecture and participate
in the seminars. Besides the experience and excitement, participants will receive both $75 per week and college credits (three hours
in political science). Only juniors who are residents of North Carolina are eligible. There are no restrictions concerning academic majors
or vocational plans. Applications must be received by the Institute of Government, Chapel Hill, by Feb. 15. Further information and
applications are available from Dr. W. P. Minter. Details are posted outside Minter's office.

Students Receive Legislative Awards

Two Davidson students, Norman Junker and Pat Hubbard, have been awarded scholarships to attend a seminar on the state legislative
process in Raleigh. The scholarships were awarded by the North Carolina Chapter of the National Center for Education in Politics,
Chapel Hill. The seminar, to be conducted by the Department of Political Science of N. C. State at Raleigh, will
be in late spring or early summer and will last one week.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

If you’ve got the cap...

It takes 6½ seconds to fasten a seat belt. 6½ seconds could save your life. Or prevent serious injury. That’s
all the time it takes to pick up a seat belt and fasten it. Here’s a simple reminder for you
and your passengers the next time you drive—“Buckle your seat belt, please.” Published to save lives in cooperation with the
National Safety Council.

A digger’s dream, this 4-4-2! Here storms a lean ’n’ mean Rocket V-8... 400 cubes, 345 horses, quad pots. Goodies
like twin acoustically tuned, chambered pipes... heavy-duty shocks, front and rear stabilizers, and 4 coil springs. Result: unique 4-4-2 action
and road sense. How many cents? This woolly machine waits for you at your Oldsmobile Dealer’s now. Hurry!

(Staff Photo by Smith)

Phi Gam pledges Dan Sweet (top) and Tommy Caldwell get ready for Greek Week Inter-pledge class tug of war. The
tug of war and a chariot race around Patterson fraternity court will figure in the overall pledge class standings for
the entire year.
