FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1955
THE DAVIDSONIAN
PAGE SIX

THREE DISCIPLINES
Davidson Lauds Liberal Arts
By ALLEN WEBB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Some colleges have tried to place a sheepskin curtain between themselves and society,” complained Dr. Carter Davidson in an address
before the student body Tuesday. In beginning his address, the president of the American Association of Colleges elaborated on the
three disciplines of the liberal arts curriculum: the physical sciences, the social sciences, and the humanities. In doing this he
drew parallels between the three great men of the nineteenth century — Einstein, Marx, and Freud — and their counterparts
2400 years before — Pythagoras, Confucius, and Buddha.

Next, the former college president discussed American higher education in general. He defined the college as “the instrument by which
civilization continues and improves itself.” The liberal arts college intends to build “the kind of world we believe in,” such
as typified by the temperance and fortitude of St. Thomas Aquinas. He also stressed a faith in morality that creates
rather than destroys.

After the assembly, a coffee hour was held in the Union. Attended by a number of reporters, Davidson was questioned
on the controversial N. C. Speaker Ban Law. Dr. Davidson branded the law as “anti-intellectualism” but went on to say
he did not believe NC schools should be penalized by loss of accreditation because of it. “The law is not
the fault of the institutions involved,” Davidson said, and it would be a “pretty severe penalty” if the Southern Association
of Colleges decided to take away accreditation because of the law. Private institutions such as Davidson are not affected by
the law.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
DR. DAVIDSON DEFENDS SMALL COLLEGE
“For The Kind Of World We Believe In”

Scholars
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Twelve Richardson Scholars from Asia, Europe, and South America who are beginning their one-year stays on the Davidson campus are
as follows:

Hiroshi Adachi, a 20-year-old resident of Osaka-Fu, Japan, is studying law and hopes one day to enter the foreign service.
He is interested in swimming, golf, popular music, and photography.

Here to continue campus-wide interest in PRAM generated last year by fellow Ecuadoran Fred Ehlers, is 20-year-old Cesar Andrade, who
is in charge of “The Voice of Youth,” a radio and television program in Quito, and is particularly interested in
journalism.

Peter Carnwath, 18, of Cheshire, England, has traveled widely in Europe. He is particularly interested in mathematics.

One of three German Richardsons this year is Jurgen Ewald, who also has traveled widely. Ewald wants to specialize in
industrial economics.

From Buenos Aires, Argentina, comes Daniel Goytia, who was 20 on Tuesday. Planning a future career in law, Goytia has
painting as his main hobby.

Also from England is Richard Hogben, 19, of Cheltenham. Medicine is Hogben’s main interest, and he plans eventually to become
a doctor. He spent much of his life in South Africa.

Erhard Jorchel is no stranger to Mecklenburg County, having spent a year of high school at Myers Park High in
Charlotte. Twenty years old, he is planning a career in law and perhaps in diplomatic service.

From near Stockholm comes Sten Lofgren, a 19-year-old Swede. An avid reader and a bridge enthusiast, Lofgren is interested in
physics as a possible major.

Tokyo resident Takayoshi Makino, 23, plans to be an English teacher in his native Japan. He enjoys skiing, skating, and
tennis.

Freshman Council Hears Social Plans

The newly activated Freshman Social Committee was the main topic of discussion at the Freshman Council’s meeting Wednesday night. The
Freshman Social Committee will work through the College Union and the regular Social Council to provide social programs for the
freshmen.

Its members, who also are on the full Freshman Council, are Tom O’Brien, John Passmore, Johnny Roe, Bobby Vagt, and
K. D. Weeks.

Freshmen will be expected to express their opinions on many of these same subjects in hall meetings before the representatives
vote. Concerning the election of the president of the Freshman Council, the alternatives are having all freshmen vote and having
only the representatives vote. The latter method was followed in past years.

Twenty hall representatives, in addition to David Powell, freshman adviser, and C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union and
coordinator of student activities, compose the Freshman Council. The representatives are Tom Baker, Pete Boggs, Brodie Brown, Stewart Brown, Carey
Hite, Chuck Mendenhall, Bayard Miller, Dan Mombrea, John Napier, and Tom O’Brien. Also, Pat Oglesby, John Passmore, Macky Reavis, Chuck
Richard, Johnny Roe, Larry Slade, Sam Tallman, Bobby Vagt, K. D. Weeks, and Craig Wilson.

The Freshman Council plans to meet each Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Green Room of the Union.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Bondurant
Burts
Clark
Dagey
Frederickson
Holland
Houchens
Lloyd
McGill
Mrs. Nicholls
Marrotte
Martin
Minter
Richey
Scott
Ster.
Stroud
Wolf
Workman

Draft Tightens Up On Students
By JIM COOLEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Draft boards across the nation are looking more carefully at requests for student deferments due to a November draft call
of 38,450, according to F. W. Hengeveld, college registrar. This increased draft call, the largest since the Korean War, has
been made because of the increased commitment in Viet Nam.

Although the Selective Service has no intention of stopping deferments for college and university students, draft boards will be calling
some deferred students who are not attending school full time or who are not making satisfactory progress in school.

Hengeveld reports that his office has just completed and mailed 850 forms to the Selective Service boards. These forms certified
that the students named were enrolled at Davidson and were carrying a regular class load. The forms, Hengeveld stated, would
be distributed to local boards which, in turn, would issue a deferment status of 2-S.

Hengeveld further added that any man reaching 18 did not have to return home to register with his local board,
but could do so in the registrar’s office.

The facts remain that, because of the increased calls, local boards are rapidly running out of single men between the
ages of 19 and 26. Since married men without children are considered the same as single men, they will be
the next group to be drafted.

Borderline students may also be drafted, as was the case during the Korean War. This means that draft boards could
require a certain level of academic achievement in order for a student to maintain his deferment.

The highest classification in the draft is still for those who are “delinquent” under the Selective Service Act. The law
says a registrant must furnish the board information within 10 days of any change of status or address. A new
law, signed on August 31, provides a $10,000 fine or five years in prison for anyone who destroys his Selective
Service card. This new law came as a result of student demonstrations protesting the war in Vietnam during which draft
cards were burned or torn up.

Ensemble To Perform At First Lawn Concert

Eighteen freshman instrumentalists will join veteran members of the Davidson College Wind Ensemble in the first lawn concert of this
season at 4:30 p.m., Sunday. The performance will take place in the Quadrangle in front of the Cunningham Fine Arts
Center. A second program will be at the same hour on Sunday, Oct. 10. Works scheduled for performance are from
light operas, Broadway musicals, as well as popular music, marches, and ballads.

Fellowships Combine, Still Have Problems

The Westminster Fellowship, the Methodist Student Movement, and the Canterbury Club have combined this year to form the Student Christian
Fellowship. This organization, according to George Brown, a member of the Westminster group, is the result of an idea proposed
by the YMCA's Committee for Religious Life and of action on the part of the local ministers.

During the spring term last year, this committee met with students and ministers of the local churches. One proposal of
this group was that an interdenominational student fellowship would serve better than three separate fellowship groups. However, Brown said that
the Y never took any action to implement this suggestion, and during the summer the ministers went ahead and acted
on the proposal. The decision was made that the meetings would be rotated each week among the three churches. Basically,
the groups would have their separate organizations but would come together for meetings each week.

Several problems must be resolved, however. Brown said, “We are not sure what direction it (the SCF) will take. It
may continue to have the combined meetings or perhaps may expand beyond the regular Friday night meeting into other religious
activities. And then if we do expand, we are still not sure to what extent.”

Commenting on the SCF’s program plans, Ross Brown, a member of WF, said, “It is completely in the twilight zone.
Outside of this Friday night's meeting, I don't know whether it will continue.”

Will Terry, advisor to the YMCA, said that he knew nothing of the SCF other than what was discussed in
plans last year. According to Terry, Buck Lawrimore is in charge of this section of the Y's activities, but Terry
continued, “Buck has never been consulted. Buck went to them last year. We would like to have an association with
them, but they haven't asked. We have the man who is willing to help them (SCF).”

Open End To Host Foreign Students

Wednesday night’s Open End in the Union Lounge will feature four Richardson scholars who will give their opinions of American
life, Paul Simpson announced this week. The foreign students, beginning at 10 p.m., will give their impressions of the United
States and American students and will tell how their impressions compare with what they expected of the United States.

Enrollment Stays Steady Near 1000

This year, as in the past, Davidson has continued to maintain its small-college atmosphere by putting a limit on the
enrollment. Present enrollment of the entire college, according to Registrar F. W. Hengeveld, is 1001 students. Included in this number
are 278 freshmen, 264 sophomores, 210 juniors, 233 seniors, 12 Richardson Scholars, and 4 special students. This number does not
include the 25 juniors who are studying abroad this year. The great variety among the students is indicated by the
34 states and 13 foreign countries which they represent. There are 366 men who hail from North Carolina; there are
also, however, 105 students from northern andWestern states. Jens Pedersen, 20, from near Copenhagen, Denmark, was a leader in Boy
Scouting in his home country. He is the holder of the Rotary Club-sponsored Chan Gordon Scholarship. Finding his main interests
in physics and chemistry is Klaus Ryftsola, 18, of Finland. A cellist and pianist, he also enjoys tennis and skiing.
With plans to become a high school teacher of French and athletics in his native Germany, Jurgen Schroder also counts
soccer and volleyball among his interests. He is 21, and from near Essen. The Richardson Scholarship program is supported by
the Richardson Foundation and by the Mary Lynn Richardson Fund of Greensboro. The awards are for one year and provide
tuition, fees, room, laundry, books, and $300 for travel during the summer following the academic year at Davidson. Board is
provided each Scholar by a fraternity with which he is associated throughout the year.

1965-66 RUSH REGULATIONS

The following list of rules was submitted to THE DAVIDSONIAN by the IFC this week:

1. Rush period will begin Saturday, Oct. 30, 1965, at 1:30 p.m. and continue through Friday, Dec. 17, 1965, 5
p.m.
2. The rush schedule will be as follows:
- Oct. 30, Saturday — Open House, all fraternities, 1:30-5:30 p.m.
- Nov. 6, Saturday — Open House, all fraternities, 4:00-6:00 p.m.
- Nov. 13, Saturday — Open House, all fraternities, 4:00-6:00 p.m.
- Nov. 20 — Concert Weekend, no rush.

(Editor’s note: Last week THE DAVIDSONIAN carried the first part of a two-part article by Associate Editor Johnny Clark concerning
his impressions of the Los Angeles riots which occurred while he was in that city last August. Following is the
concluding part of his article.)

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Only a minority of the Negroes of the city were actually participating in the riots, but I was completely amazed
by the failure of the Negro “civil rights” leaders to condemn the actions of the rioters. They would only offer,
“Of course I don’t condone the violence, but...” and proceed to list Negro grievances, some valid and some not so
valid. While holed up on the roof one night, we watched the Joe Pyne Show (sort of a local Jack
Paar Show) during which one radical Negro “spokesman,” an ex-Black Muslim, actually defended and praised the acts of the rioters,
as businesses continued to burn and people continued to die. True, he didn't speak for the majority of the Negroes,
but the segment he did speak for was able to commit $200 million worth of damage, in addition to causing
37 people to die senselessly. The other Negro leader on the program, called an “Uncle Tom" by the extremist, did
voice the sentiments of most civil rights leaders and other champions of the oppressed. He said that he did not
condone the violence, but that the violence was the result of “police brutality” and many other oppressions of the Negroes
and not the fault of civil rights leaders’ tactics. Even Governor Pat Brown, who seemed to be sort of a
California Lyndon Johnson, refused to condemn the rioters, blaming instead the LA police department and Mayor Sam Yorty, with whom
he had long been at odds. Like LBJ, Brown is a politician first, last, and foremost, and he knew the
risk of possibly alienating many liberal votes. Even as people died, he continued to play politics and refrained from condemning
those who included among their civil rights the right to steal, burn, destroy, and even kill. No, most of the
Negro civil rights leaders did not consciously want the violence, but what did they expect? As the articulate Negro writer
George S. Schuyler wrote, “The net result of (the civil rights leaders’) long encouragement of civil disobedience, disdain for authority,
and general disrespect for public morals was to set the stage for the successful disgraceful orgies of burning, looting, vandalism,
and death, with the criminal elements of the slum proletariat taking over. Ironically, when police called upon these civil rights
leaders to help control the rampaging mobs, they were (if found) completely ineffective.” Will Herberg, the noted Jewish theologian, wrote
that those such as James Farmer and Martin Luther King, “the inciters to law-defiance in the name of ‘conscience,’ are
ultimately responsible for the riots." Los Angeles attorney Morton B. Jackson added, “They (the rioters) had been encouraged to believe
that they were only taking what was rightfully theirs and what had been wrongfully withheld from them all these years.
They had been told that they were being willfully suppressed, so they were getting even.” The Negroes of Watts did
have some valid complaints, most of them concerning lack of opportunity. But how they or their “leaders” who refused to
condemn their actions could think that anything could justify their actions of violence, I don’t know. The Negro leaders’ refusal
to condemn murderers and looters seemed to indicate a silent approval as the riots mounted in intensity to their peak
on Saturday and Sunday. Certainly, the only effective discouragement the rioters received were the bullets and bayonets of police and
National Guardsmen. Law and the respect of the general populace for law and order is the foundation of our civilized
life. The advocation of disobedience to laws which one considers “bad” can only lead to other situations like LA, Rochester,
Harlem, and Springfield. Justice Felix Frankfurter has said, “If a man can be allowed to determine for himself what is
law, every man can. That means first, chaos; then, tyranny.” Martin Luther King and all the would-be M. L. Kings
did not have to fly out to LA to find their scapegoats. They just had to open their eyes. Admittedly,
a lot more understanding and a lot more giving will have to occur on both sides before this mess is
settled. Yet, the Negro will achieve the respect he wants, along with the understanding and the giving, by showing, as
many Negro leaders have already done, a capacity for responsibility rather than a capability for precipitating disrespect and disobedience for
the law which, however imperfect it may be, is the foundation of our civilization.

Article I)

- Dec. 4, Saturday — Rush Parties, 2:00-5:00 p.m.
- Dec. 11, Saturday — Rush Parties, 2:00-5:00 p.m.

3. Periods of silence are imposed during the following times:
1. At the end of each open house, there shall be a period of silence until the following Monday, 8
a.m.
2. There will be a period of silence from Nov. 19-Nov. 29.
3. From Dec. 17, 1965, 5:00 p.m. to Jan. 3, 1966, 8:00 a.m. there will be a period of silence.
During these periods, no man having an official connection with a fraternity shall be allowed to influence a rushee. During
a period of silence, nothing other than a salutary greeting will be allowed.
4. Rushing shall be defined as any word or act of an active member, pledge, or alumnus of a signatory
chapter which tends or is otherwise calculated to favorably impress a rushee with the chapter, or to otherwise influence him.
(This includes obtaining or transporting dates.) Regarding the phrase “Any official connection,” any pledge, member, or alumnus shall be considered
as acting in an official capacity in this case.
5. All rush contact shall be limited to the Davidson College campus. Off-campus contact shall be limited to a salutary
greeting.
6. The first three rush dates consist of open house at all fraternities for all rushees during the respective times
stated above. Dates for the Dec. 4, and Dec. 11, rush parties will be arranged prior to the Thanksgiving holidays.
Each freshman rushee will be required to visit all twelve fraternity houses in a manner to be prescribed by the
IFC.
7. No late dates will be permitted; rushing closes with the period of silence. Before Jan. 3, no fraternity man
will be allowed to pay a rushee’s way to the movies, for soda fountain drinks, or to treat him to
any set-ups. No freshman may ride in an upperclassman’s automobile and vice versa through Dec. 18. However, specific requests for
exceptions to this rule may be filed with the IFC at least 48 hours in advance.
8. No fraternity nor shall any member of a fraternity ask for dates before Nov. 19, 1965. The date cards
suggesting certain rush party dates will be circulated to the rushees by the IFC with no rushee being allowed more
than two dates (which must be on different afternoons) with any one fraternity.
9. The “Interfraternity Date Cards” will be received by the IFC before Nov. 23, 1965, 9 p.m. The freshman will
have decided when and where he will go for the two final rush parties. The decision at this time is
binding and final.
10. No informal bidding shall be allowed. All formal bids shall be sent through the IFC. Bids will be received
by the IFC before Dec. 17, 1965, 5 p.m. and will be issued by mail during the first three days
of the Christmas holiday period.
11. Acceptance of bids by freshmen will be by mail, to the IFC, before the end of the Christmas holiday
period.
12. Any freshman not accepting a bid during the holiday period is not eligible for another bid until March 1,
1966.
13. Pledging shall occur after the end of the first semester.
14. Those students accepting a bid who wish to break that relationship will be ineligible for membership in another social
organization until the beginning of the next academic year — 1966-1967.
15. There shall be no upperclassmen contact with freshmen in any dorm through Jan. 8, 1966. After Jan. 3 there
shall be no upperclassmen contact with freshmen in the freshman dorms after 7:30 p.m.
16. Freshmen shall not be allowed to enter fraternity houses prior to Jan. 3, except for the specified open houses
and rush parties.
17. A rushing fee will be charged to rushees in order to defray the expenses incurred by the IFC for
name tags, printing, etc.
18. If any conflicts arise during the rush period, the parties in question will go to the President of the
IFC, and they will be examined and a solution found.
19. No fraternity member or pledge shall make any derogatory remarks toward any other fraternity with the express purpose of
slandering or degrading said fraternity in the eyes of the rushee. Rushees should report any violations of this section to
the IFC for consideration.
20. If any fraternity or a member of a fraternity violates these rules regulating rushing, such violations shall be considered
“dirty rushing” and the fraternity involved will be subject to a $50.00 fine by the IFC. If any rushee violates
the rushing regulations, he renders himself ineligible to join or be pledged by any fraternity at Davidson College until the
beginning of the next academic year — 1966-1967.
