PAGE FOUR By BILL BRIGGS Sports Editor THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1965

Smithmen Close Successful Season
“Eleven Seniors Graduate”

“We all wish we were sophomores. From Smith’s First Squad” Thus Jim Terry described the attitude of the eleven seniors
who composed the nucleus of the ’65 ’Cats. They brought Davidson its first winning season since 1958 and won the
magic six for the first time in eleven years. But their record isn’t really that important. The seniors led a
team who established “a new way of playing football,” as Coach Homer Smith likes to phrase it. “It was a
tough transition to make,” commented linebacker Dick Short, “especially for the seniors.” “We really had to shift gears,” added Jim
Rollins, “Everything was different.” It would be an understatement to say that they were just good football players. All eleven
started or played consistently when they were not injured. On offense, Jerry Blackstock and Woody Hill held down the guard
positions.

FOOTBALL ... AT LAST

The steel-gray Saturday skies are quiet now. And winter’s icy winds whistle through lonely goal posts that stand silent on
brown grass. Throaty cheers and loud shouts have turned to the crowded warmth of a floodlighted gymnasium, the cheers and
shouts have turned from the thump of pad against pad to the thump of leather against a hardwood court. The
cheers and shouts have left Davidson’s empty football stadium for the first time in nearly a decade, but now we
know, not the last. For this year, unlike the recent past, there were cheers and shouts, for this year, unlike
the recent past, red-throated fans hollered themselves hoarse in a packed stadium; for this year, unlike the recent past, Davidson
played football. A new coach, Homer Smith, brought a new staff, Dick Tomey, Dave Fagg and Ken Blair, and broke
an old tradition with his new look. Material-wise another bleak season loomed ahead. At best this year's squad was weaker
than last year’s, hurt by the loss of such key personnel as Steve Heckard, Pat Fisher, Will Jackson, Jay Rogers
and Bruce Dalton. Smith’s new look was forced to rely on untried sophomores, green juniors, a nucleus of seniors, tough,
but used to losing, and student excitement that reached a bored yawn.

Hindsley, Sprinkle Get All-S C Bids

By STEVE BROWN Davidsonian Sports Writer

Twenty-nine years of tradition fell by the wayside Monday when the All-Southern Conference football team was announced. Davidson defensive standouts
Pack Hindsley and Dave Sprinkle were named to the first-string defensive unit and became the Wildcats’ first all-conference contributions since
guard Dick Johnson in 1936. The team, selected by the Southern Conference Sports Writers Association, also contained guard Woody Hill
and back Steve Smith on the offensive second unit and back Tom Dews on the defensive second unit. Said Hindsley,
“Thirty years is a long time, but I think the main reason we have had no men on the all-conference
team is that up until this year we have had few winning teams to back up the performances of good
men. This past season we set a new tradition—that we can win if we want to bad enough.” Sprinkle concurred,
“I think we set a definite basis for future teams to build on; hitting hard has become a standard thing
here and our spirit, especially among the seniors, has really come up.” Hindsley began his football career eight years ago
at Woodrow Wilson High School in Beckley, W. Va., and played tackle and fullback while there. Upon coming to Davidson,
he played tackle.

COLD, EMPTY STANDS SIGNAL SEASON’S END Cheers And Shouts Turn To Warm Gymnasium

But armed with a handful of new and unusual weapons, these untried sophomores, green juniors, and supposedly “defeatist” seniors came
through magnificently. Their arsenal was meager on the surface, and at least to their first three opponents, Presbyterian, Furman and
The Citadel, they were still the same old losers. Where they lacked in speed and size and talent, Smith gave
them enthusiasm and confidence, almost to the point of the absurd. Smith made certain that if he lost it would
be with unconventional, not in the worn-out way Davidson traditionally was battered. And enthusiasm, confidence, surprise, paid off. Instead of
losing in the conventional Davidson way, the untried sophomores became overnight veterans, maybe even stars. Billy Taylor, Walter Greene, Tommy
Caldwell, Pete Glidewell, George Solley, Ken Kendall, Buddy Newsome and Tupper Morehead took up more than the slack last year’s
seniors left. The green juniors stepped into last year’s holes without breaking stride. Jimmy Poole and Jake Jacobsen alternated at
quarterback and sparked the offense to the most points scored by a Davidson team since 1956. Renn Gruber, Tommy Dews,
Johnny Walker, Julian Fite, John Fagg, Bill Rikard and Joe Gaddy had flashes of greatness that promise even more successes
for next year’s Smith team. The tough seniors were just that. Forgetting our hallowed heritage of unsure, sloppy, lackadaisical playing,
Pack Hindsley and Dave Sprinkle were All-Conference selections; Steve Smith, Jim Terry, John Little, Jerry Blackstock, Dick Short, Woody Hill,
Stu Perry, Jim Rollins and Mike Cummings gave maturity and leadership to a team, when by all past experience Davidson
seniors should have been the epitome of the lazy yawn called Davidson spirit. But the real miracle in Davidson football
came in the stands, not on the field. Smith and his cohorts broke the placid sea of silence that has
hung over Davidson football games since the fifties. The sarcastic snickers that once were the only audible sounds at a
Davidson game were turned into excited chatter and enthusiastic roars. Even the usual cynicism that we splatter on our sports
pages has been somewhat silenced. People will tell you now we could have done better; we should have been 7-3;
don’t listen. Only the most optimistic of foolish fans would have hoped for the 6-4 record this year’s team brought
us. But Smith brought Davidson much more than six wins. He brought Davidson football. And he brought enough excitement for
us to say the throaty cheers and loud shouts have left our gridiron, but they will be back.

Hopeful Swimmers To Begin Season

Co-captain Jim Stokes and several sophomores lead Davidson's swimming team in twelve meets this year, the first being against Virginia
here Monday. This is Coach Tom Stevens's first year as Davidson swimming coach. He has taught water safety classes for
the physical education department and he coached a competitive team from the Pine Lake Country Club one summer. Leading varsity
swimmers include Stokes, who finished second in the 200-yard butterfly event in the conference meet last year. Richard Holt could
help the team in the individual medley and backstroke events. John Helm, the other co-captain, is a good all-round swimmer
and will be used where he is needed. Steve Barden will swim the individual medley. Stevens expects much help from
sophomores. Among the top sophomore prospects are Tom Irons and Bris Rodgers, both hard workers and good prospects. Paul Monk,
who swims sprints.

’Cats Split Final Two Tilts

The Wildcats split their final two games, topping Wofford and losing to Bucknell, 22-14, to finish one of the more
successful seasons in Davidson athletic history. In the Wofford game Davidson was down at halftime, 6-0, but came back strong
in the second half, led by Pete Glidewell, who scored two touchdowns and gained 100 yards rushing in the final
two periods. Davidson didn’t get the breaks in that game as they had in previous contests, having to drive 79
and 80 yards for the two scores. In the first eight games, they were able to score every time but
one when they had the ball inside the opponent’s 20-yard line, but against Wofford the ’Cats didn’t score enough to
win. We had two good opportunities to score in the second half and didn’t.did not have good field position all
day. One chance came when Davidson took over the ball on the Bucknell 30-yard line, but couldn't push in for
the score. The second opportunity came when the ‘Cats were on the Bison 35 with about 1:45 left to play.
Davidson had to score and go for two points on the conversion attempt to tie the game, but fumbled the
ball after being thrown for a loss. “Bucknell was,” said Coach Smith, “the best team we played all season, except
for William and Mary.”

Said Coach Smith about the game, “The boys came through beautifully—they realized the pressure on them. When Terry missed the
extra point, everyone wanted the game for him and didn’t want to lose the game, 14-13.” In that game Jim
Terry set the Southern Conference record for placements, making 35 consecutive extra points.

The “Bucknell game was,” in Coach Smith's words, “the biggest disappointment of the year. We played hard enough and well
enough to win, but we just didn't get the breaks.” The ‘Cats played the Bucknell game with injuries to many
first-string players. Johnny Walker was injured early in the game, and Jake Jacobsen played most of the game with a
strained knee ligament. Bill Rickard played with a bad hip and Tom Caldwell had a slight injury. Quipped Smith, “If
we have another season like this, we're going to have to have a bigger budget for tape.”

Against Bucknell, Pack Hindsley played the best game of his college career. Coach Smith remarked on the 1964 season, “For
us coaches, it was the biggest thrill we have had in sports. We didn’t like to be too concerned with
records, because you can schedule yourself into a winning season, but we're thrilled for the seniors being able to graduate
with a winning season.”

Coca-Cola Refreshment anyone? Game goes better refreshed. Coca-Cola! With its lively lift, big bold taste, never too sweet... refreshes best.
Bottling Co. of Concord.

Pack Hindsley played fullback during his freshman year and halfback his sophomore year before switching to a defensive end slot
in 1964. Although Hindsley has won other awards, including honorable mention All-Scholastic and All-Southern Conference team last year and Southern
Conference ‘lineman of the week' this year, he said, “This selection is a real honor, and it is probably what
I've been working toward all through my football career here.”

Sprinkle began playing football in the tenth grade of high school and has played a defensive backfield position ever since,
with the exception of his freshman year at Davidson, when he played on both offense and defense. His defensive play
attracted note last year and he received the LaFar defensive award, but he grinned and said, “I was really thrilled
by the selection: like Pack. I'd say it was something I've been working toward for a long time.”

Both Hindsley and Sprinkle are also active in extracurricular activities. Hindsley, a pre-medicine major, is a Distinguished Military Student, a
member of Scabbard and Blade, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and a listee in Who's Who in
American Colleges and Universities. Sprinkle is also a DMS and a member of Scabbard and Blade and is a member
of Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity; he plans to study at the University
of North Carolina next year in the graduate school of business administration.

Stu Perry played tackle, and John Little served both backfield and spread end duty when not hampered by a shoulder
injury. Steve Smith led the offensive unit from his fullback position. Dick Short called the signals from his linebacking position.
Captain Pack Hindsley, Mike Cummings, and Jim Rollins filled out the defensive line, while Dave Sprinkle paced the secondary. Jim
Terry proved that he was the best kicker in the conference for the third straight year. Out of this eleven,
Hindsley and Sprinkle were named to the All-Conference first team, and Hill and Smith were given berths on the second
team. Coach Smith also pointed out that Hindsley and Terry are definitely pro prospects.

It is not enough, however, to talk about their ability alone. As sophomore anchor man Tupper Morehead stated, “The seniors
were terrific leaders on the field. Their spirit helped the whole team.” Undoubtedly, the seniors’ greatest admirer was Coach Smith
himself. When asked about them, he said, “I couldn’t talk about one or two without naming them all, they were
great.” He added, “We played bigger, faster and more experienced teams, and won because the boys worked harder.”

Although justifiably proud of the season as a whole, the seniors were all slightly disappointed. “This was our best year,”
said Rollins, “We hustled all the time, our organization was better, we just did everything better. But we should have
won more games.” Short observed that the team never put together a perfect game. “There was always something that we
didn’t do as well as we should have,” he commented.

In talking to the seniors, however, one thing is readily noticeable, they never credit themselves with this team’s success. Instead,
when asked what made the difference this year, the answer is inevitably “Homer.” As Jim Rollins pointed out, “It was
our best season, but it was due to Coach Smith.” Terry added, “The coaches worked our butts off, but they
were four great guys. You wanted to work for them.” Blackstock summed up the team’s feeling when he said, “The
potential has always been there. There have been games in the past that we should have won but didn’t. This
year we wanted to win for ourselves, but mostly for Homer. He’s great.”

Perhaps the greatest indication of the seniors’ enthusiasm, however, is the attitude they have for the future of Davidson football.
They talk about next year’s squad as being the best ever, and the difference a good recruiting program is going
to make. Short best typified the team's optimism when he stated, “In the near future, a 6-4 season may be
disappointing.”

Pipe Smokers It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison
Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your
Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases. Maison Michel 217
N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. 375-9723

SHONEY’S HOME OF THE Big Boy The ideal stop for a quick meal or snack after seeing the ‘Cats play
in the Coliseum. Three Locations- 800 East Morehead 3400 Plaza 3700 East Independence To Serve You 10 Per Cent Discount
To Davidson Students
