The Havidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Refreshing Approach

"That's not the kind of music I want for a weekend. Why can’t we have the Supremes—or at least Major
Lance?" Inevitably the gripes continue. And we cannot think of a more appropriate time than Midwinters for examining the efforts
of the Interfraternity Council this year. Some time must pass before we can accurately evaluate the total effectiveness of this
year’s IFC. But we can make one assertion now: the imagination of the group in general—and President Rick von Unwerth
in particular—deserves a hand-blistering round of applause.

The IFC has attempted to perch inside a newly carved niche this year, and the fraternity representatives have succeeded. The
complaints linger; the monotonous weekend vanishes. "You can’t please everyone all the time, but you can try to satisfy each
individual student at least once during the year." Such has been the goal of the IFC this year, a goal
which is attained this weekend.

Homecoming featured guitarist Sabicas and folk singers Ian and Sylvia while jazz artist Herbie Mann gave the fall concert. Rock
and roll fans receive their serving with Martha and the Vandellas tonight, while pop vocalist Julie London will perform tomorrow
night at Davidson's first formal dance in over two years. The scene? The mall of a suburban Charlotte shopping center,
another IFC innovation prompted by the lingering odors and resounding acoustics of Davidson’s gymnasium. The dance will be a success
with student support; without student backing it will flop. The same can be said of the IFC.

Lunatic Fringe?

"I predict that if these policies do not change we'll be fighting in Vietnam for a decade. And, at best
we’ll end up with a draw or a slow defeat.

"Secretary McNamara has made four trips to Vietnam. This is the third government they're on over there. But our casualties
continue. But still the invaders, the Viet Cong, operate from a privileged sanctuary.

"If, tomorrow afternoon, we ran every guerrilla in South Vietnam back to the North, we still wouldn’t have settled anything.
They could sneak back in the very next day.

"Also, under the present policies, the civilian economy and population of South Vietnam is being slowly strangled to death. The
whole country is being conscripted, in effect—and still there is no policy that sets a goal of victory for all
of this!

"Unless we want to bog down in Vietnam forever and a day, or lose it, we have got to take
some action that will actually force the Viet Cong to give up the fight."

Barry Goldwater made this statement to the American Society of Newspaper Editors in Washington, D.C. on April 18, 1964.

Loosening The Noose

Davidson’s Young Republicans set the pace for other campus organizations when they passed Wednesday night a resolution calling for the
repeal or modification of the North Carolina “Speaker-Ban Law.” The action becomes especially commendable when the community realizes that the
club’s stand is directly opposed to that of the YR state convention which met in Charlotte last weekend.

Student Council also expressed its opposition to the “Gag Law” this week thereby adding strength to the growing movement against
the controversial control measure. In its brief existence, the student committee against the “Speaker Ban Law,” approved by the local
AAUP this week, has made its presence known. We commend the members of the committee and urge all students—as individuals
and as groups—to join the difficult struggle to eradicate the “Ban” from the statute books.

Southern Bred

Tradition is a wonderful thing, and we could use more of it. Everyone can. We hear now, though, that the
South is dead and that we should stop being childish, stop singing “Dixie,” and throw away our Confederate flags. We
totally agree. This is not an age for sentimental living, nor is it an age for revered traditions. We must
come awake, we must change with the times, and, most of all, we must needs be realistic.

Let us then be done with all things southern. We must face life squarely. Let us begin by tossing jaded
heroes of the South out. First must go Washington, Jefferson, Henry, Calhoun, Whitney, the Houstons, Crockett, and Bowie. Then must
go the Plantation homes, Jamestown, Williamsburg, the Alamo, the Battle of New Orleans, Yorktown, the river Steamers, Mark Twain, Robert
E., and Stonewall J. Yessir, throw ’em all out. William and Mary can go (it’s too old anyway). So can
Spirituals and Ballads. We can always sing “Carry me back to Ole New Joisey.”

Race riots are probably caused by tradition, too. What the South needs is more decent city parks. Like Central Park,
for example. Or Harlem. By Golly, just think what it would be like without traditions. We could become industrialized, just
like the North. Then when we did, we could be successful, too! Without tradition, this nation would be one big
ulcer.

—East Carolinian
East Carolina College

RULE BRITANNIA

The Christian Science Monitor
‘United States Should Join British Commonwealth’
Richardson Scholar From England

By SIMON BLACKFORD

After spending nearly six months on the wrong side of the Atlantic, there are certain conclusions that the responsible Englishman
will feel that he must make public. After nearly two hundred years of adolescent manifestation of individuality, independence, etc., it
is really time that this little spree came to an end. It is time for the prodigal to come home,
for the lamb to return to the fold, in short, for the United States of America to reclaim its right
and proper place in the happy family of the British Commonwealth of Nations.

Now, I want to make it clear from the start (and I'm sure that I express the sentiments of Lizzy,
Phil, Uncle Harold and all the rest of them) that Mummy England won’t be cross. Other little boy and girl-nations
have gone astray and we know that the best way to be lenient. In fact, it is perfectly possible that
certain concessions will be made. Take that stamp tax, and tea duty, for instance. Now what those poor aggressive colonists
didn't understand was that Mother Countries have to protect their colonies and that in order to do so they must
have money. But now the U.S. is to be considered as an adult. Not only will Americans enjoy free trading
rights with England, but in addition, America might have (no promises here, mind you) some trading rights with other countries.
This is typical of the type of untold benefits that the U.S. would gain by re-entering the Commonwealth.

Think for a moment about some of the less material advantages. Emotional security would be an obvious example. No more
of that unwanted, cut-off feeling. Lots of happy, friendly brothers all over the world. And remember, when the Queen makes
her Christmas-day speech to all the Commonwealth, she will be talking not only to Canada and all the rest of
them, but to the whole of North America. (And in time of difficulty, she may have a special message. Over
Cuba, for instance, she would have had lots of advice on being brave, and other helpful things to say.)

Other advantages, briefly, would be such things as: decadence, culture, savoir-faire, tradition, class-consciousness, taste, and authenticity for important occasions (no
more of those little farces in dark suits such as we have just seen up in Washington).

Now one of those suspicious minds might ask what Great Britain gets out of such a deal. The answer is:
not very much. All we would ask would be some of that nasty, dirty, soul-polluting money simply to ensure that
America becomes less materialistic and is thus spiritually redeemed, like England. Also, there would have to be no more discrimination
against Negroes, Red Indians, and other Communists. Therefore, all you have to do to make America a happy, clean country
is insist that the party which replaces the Republican party is called the Colonial party, striving to make this nation
“Her Majesty's Dominion of North America”.

FILM FRIENDS PRESENTS

French Student Praises ‘Sundays And Cybele’

“Sundays and Cybele” is an excellent translation of the title of the French movie “Les Dimanches de Ville d’Auray” (The
Sundays of Ville d’Auray). The latter does not evoke anything for someone who is not French. Ville d’Auray, a little
town near Versailles and the Seine River, stands for the symbol of a niceHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Conventional town, or to put the thing bluntly, for a rather dull place. So the title suggests the dullest kind
of Sunday you can imagine. The English title suggests rather a “Sunday picnic” type of movie. Cybele was the goddess
of nature in Greek mythology and is the symbol of nature. Sunday picnics are fun, but nothing is more dull
than this kind of fun. The “tour de force” is that both titles in different words suggest, for a certain
public, something nicely boring which by the very fact of being boring attracts the attention of the amateur of “New
Wave” movies.

And what a movie! The pond, the trees, the streets, the little girl, as many marvelous pictures of a rare
beauty taken by Henri Decae. What an artist! The poetic value of the film is exceptional. The director Serge Bourguignon
skillfully employs Tibetan music as well as Charpentier's Christmas mass to convey an impression of unreality which, with the help
of the cameraman, carries you to another sphere, to another world of imagination, beauty, love, and happiness. Two unhappy human
beings, in total loneliness, meet by chance. In the course of their Sundays together, the child and the man regain
confidence in life and themselves. But they cannot live outside society and the conventional world of the little town: “When
in part due to the symbols employed by the film director. The romantic idyll between Pierre and the little goddess
is not earthy: it belongs to another world. She claims a tree as her home and casts a pebble into
her lake and declares that their “home” is in the center of the ripples. Pierre brings her a weathercock, bird
of Apollo god of light, and at the end an ever-

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

One week he is reluctantly feted in Atlanta as the winner of the Nobel Prize for Peace, and the next
week he sits in a jail cell in Selma, Alabama. Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to register to vote—tried to
lead a group of Negroes to inscribe their names on the roll of those who at least enjoy the right
to vote. And, in the true Southern tradition, he and hundreds of others were not only denied this basic right
of citizenship, but the right to a peaceable assembly as well. The thought that such blatant injustice and wide-eyed defiance
of all that is human could take place in this country really grieves me.

Perhaps the occasion of Mid-Winters, complete with buxom and smoky Julie, is not the time to put forth a plea
for decency. Maybe one should not be so naive as to disturb the ritualistic joy of after-dance outbursts and after-drinking
befuddlement by introducing a matter so academic as Civil Rights. After all, you say, we have pondered and crammed for
months now. We have burned the oil; we have been sterile and scholarly—students, according to the College catalogue. Now we
deserve our period of forgetfulness and unconcern. The time is right for a momentary stay against the pressures of formulas
and theses, tracts and cycles. We need to drown the god of academia. Now is the time, you say, to
lay our minds on a dusty shelf, amid the clutter of ominous books and used Bright-liners. The mouth... the eyes...
the feet... the pelvis... the fingertips—these will rule the weekend. It will never work, College Man.

I see you when you arrive for the weekend. You are already tired from your trip, but you are lovely.
You kiss me matter-of-factly, but there is a promise in your eyes, and a smile that longs to be smiled
alone. At the dorm, Janie French will take our three dollars and let us know that she remembers that smiles
on lovers. You have been here with me before. She will show you to my room, and I am secretly
proud when you tell me that it looks nice. You will leave Chanel on the pillow, and I will be
sad on Sunday.

In Rochester, there was a little boy named Sammy. He was a Negro. He would not speak, except when he
pulled on my sleeve and said, “Got a nickel?” His eyes were always half-blank, half-questioning. I remember first meeting him
fighting with another child. I pulled him away and picked him up. All he did was open his mouth as
wide as he could and utter a silent scream... I carried him home on my back, and he peed in
his pants. On the front porch of his house, his mother sat with her legs spread and cleaned the meat
out of the shell of a huge turtle. The blood dripped off of the porch onto the dusty yard where
two near-naked urchins played with another turtle shell. Sammy was crazy.

At the dance, you will wear your dark green silk dress, and your hair will be long. We will move
slowly to the music muted by a thousand intimate voices. Your shoulders are white, your ear cold against my cheek.
You look up with wet, happy eyes and pass your lips—quietly, softly—across my chin. For a fleeting second we are
alone in the crowd, and I am filled with wonder and with love.

The newspapers are filled with evidences of our guilt. Birmingham. Bull Conner & Co. pride themselves on keeping order with
fire hoses and cattle prodders. Negroes are beaten, and the Klan cheers. And still they come. “Keep your eyes on
the prize, hold on.” Philadelphia. The three workers lie rotten in a shallow grave... victims of fear and godless hatred.
They will not be tried for murder, not Rainey and Price. Life runs a full-page photo of smiling Sheriff Rainey,
his mouth full of “Red Man” chewing tobacco. Little Rock seems so far away—a long, bloody way away. “Ain't no
black s.o.b. gonna stink up my children’s school!” “Kill ‘em! Kill ‘em!” A single Negro looks into the mad crowd
of white faces, they are ugly with fear and hatred. “NIGGER,” they scream. His head bows. “NIGGER! NIGGER! NIGGER!”

They lay very still on the blanket. In the distance they could hear the gaiety and laughter of a party.
The moon’s hazy brilliance cast a light pale blue through the thick pines, interrupted only by an occasional strand of
silken cloud. “It was wonderful.” “Yes.” “What are you thinking about?” “Nothing.” “Tell me.” “Are you thinking about love?” “Yes.”
She turned slowly toward him. Her soft hair fell across his forehead. They were silent. “Why are you crying?” she
said.

The relationship between the man and the little girl. “No,” answers someone, “I think it is marvelous.” That is the
word which summarizes the whole film. Martin, Yvette Mimieux. Jim Dewar, Copy Editor. Don Davis, Associate Editors. Rick von Kreisler,
Asst. Copy Editors. Bill Aitken, Tim Kimrey, Calvin Zon, Managing Editors. John Todd, Photographers. Sam Smith, Mike Harrington, Tom Thel,
Asst. Managing Editors. John Bailey, Cartoonists. Erskine Sproul, Feature Editor. Bob Strauser, Cartoonists. Jack Lingle, Sports Editor. Johnny Clark, Rufus
Hallmark, Assistant Sports Editor. Bill Bri, Circulation Manager. Malcolm Like, Lou Hill, Asst. Business Mgr. Irvine Welling, Advertising Mgr. Bob
Cameron, Contributors this week: Dick Spencer, Huck Berry, Louis Lesesne, Steve Couch, Roger David, Harry Carr, Ed Maxwell, Joe Bentley,
Jamie Bryant, Walt Drake, Will Shackleford, David Coffey, Bob Howard, Mike Carrell, Ross Cornwell, Bert Whisenant, Joe Ford, Ron Snow,
Billy Farr, Bob Vance, Heyward Carter, John Allen, Steve Brown, Paul Marion, Neville Patterson, Mike Mooty, Sam Boyte. Entered as
Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879. Asst. Circulation Manager,
John Viser.

Tonight a special alternative is being offered to the regular routine of Midwinters partying. Lounge chairs will be moved into
the Morrison Room to make it as comfortable as possible for the students and their dates. Beginning immediately after the
concert, three movies will be shown free of charge: Night of the Iguana (Richard Burton, Sue Lyon, Ava Gardner), Experiment
in Terror (Lee Remick), and Toys in the Attic (Dean Martin, Yvette Mimieux). The showing will end at 3 a.m.
