QUESTIONNAIRE MAKES DAVIDSON SEEM BEHIND (See Page Three) VOL. LIV. The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965 PRAM STUDENTS TALK AT OPEN END (See Page Six) NUMBER TWENTY-SIX Trustees Call For First Semester Rush, Additional Houses On Patterson Court Trustees Announce Next Year's Faculty The Board of Trustees approved the appointment of five new members to the faculty this morning. Dr. Hallam Walker has been appointed Associate Professor of French. Dr. Walker is a native of New Jersey, a magna cum laude graduate of Princeton University, from which institution he also holds the degrees of MA and PhD. Dr. Walker was Instructor at Washington and Lee for one year and has been Assistant Professor of French at Duke University since 1955. Mr. Albert Allen Wolf has been appointed Assistant Professor of Physics. Wolf is a cum laude graduate of Vanderbilt University, has an MA from Vanderbilt and will receive his PhD from Georgia Institute of Technology in June. He has been an Instructor at Georgia Tech for three years, is a National Science Foundation Faculty Fellow at Georgia Tech at the present time, engaged in research in molecular physics. Dr. Jerry Allen Roberts is joining the Department of Mathematics as an Assistant Professor. Mr. Roberts is a native of North Carolina, holds degrees of BS, MS and PhD, all from North Carolina State University. Dr. Roberts has held positions as research assistant and has been an Instructor in Mathematics at North Carolina State. He is a specialist in Applied Mathematics, Numerical Analysis, and Computer Programming. Dr. Alexander Jeffrey McKelway joins the Department of Bible and Religion as an Assistant Professor. Dr. McKelway is an AB graduate of Davidson, a BD from (See Page Six) By JOHN BAILEY Davidsonian Staff Writer The Board of Trustees recommended this afternoon that the faculty adopt a plan instituting deferred rush and pledging for the class of 1969 during the academic year 1965-66. The action of the trustees includes a provision for the construction of one or more houses on Patterson Fraternity Court the purpose of which would be to more adequately meet the needs of independents on the campus. Social Council Established By FRANK FLEMING Davidson Staff Writer Student Council voted at its Monday meeting to establish a permanent Social Council and elected Dan Campbell as its first chairman. After a formal motion by Fred Sackett and an amendment by David Meschan the council voted unanimously (with all members present) to accept the following plan for the new Social Council: “That the Student Council establish a committee, to be called the Social Council, said committee to plan campus-wide social events. “(1a) Membership of this council is to be 16 including the chairman. The chairman shall be elected by the Student Council. Representation shall be as follows: one chairman, one treasurer, seven fraternity men, the President of the College Union, one member of Lingle Manor, three independents at large, and two freshmen elected by the Freshman Council. “(1b) Said council shall have an executive committee consisting of the regularly appointed chairman and treasurer and a vice-chairman and secretary elected by the Social Council. “(2) The Student Council shall review the structure of this Social Council and choosing of the chairman and make any recommended changes before March 1, 1966.” TREASURER NEEDED Before the actual adoption of Sackett’s motion, Meschan had raised the problem of a “financial budgeteer.” Since the new Social Council will assume the Interfraternity Council's job of planning major social events, Meschan said, “The student body needs someone with a special financial background. “We should make this choice ourselves in order to assure the best possible organization for next year.” The council voted 13-2-1 to select such a treasurer. Petition Will Call For Student Referendum By BOB TRAVERS Davidsonian Staff Writer Arnie Goodstein, Honor Court member who heads a group of students attempting to remove the drinking clause in the student body constitution, plans to present his petition at the next Student Council meeting on Monday night. The petition, which has about 200 signatures, calls for repeal of Article VIII, Section 2 of the constitution. This clause prohibits the drinking of alcohol and its possession on campus. The rule, termed “anachronistic” by the group, requires suspension from the college of all violators. “We continue to oppose this rule,” Goodstein commented, “in order to allow the Honor Court to place more emphasis on things which are really important, such as the honor violations themselves. “Removing this rule would also remove the responsibility for ‘police action’ from student court and council members,” he added. Goodstein had hoped to present his petition to the council this week but decided against it. “I saw that there was no reason,” he explained, “to rush this since the trustees were meeting this week.” The Student Council must, within ten days after he presents the petition, conduct a referendum on the question because it has more than 50 signatures. Goodstein will also request a chapel period before the referendum to present and discuss the petition before the student body. He said that he did not want to overly publicize the issue. He feels that a chapel period will be enough. He did say, “I wouldn't mind having an Open End or question and answer program which interested students could attend and find out about this proposal. “I don't know when I'll speak,” Goodstein continued. “It would be best if it could be on the day of the referendum, but it will be up to the Student Council. I don't know whether there will be anyone at the assembly to speak in opposition to this or not. “This proposal is being brought up from the student body, sponsored solely by students.” Goodstein concluded. “I think the students should realize that this does affect their constitution; they have the right to change it and update it, but I don't want to see any kind of railroad movement.” Anderson Views Historical Jesus er. Discussion also concerned whether or not the Social Council officers should be elected by the Student Council or Student Body. Will Jackson explained that since “election regulations would require a change,” the council itself should act for now. David Powell added, “Let's wait a year to see how the Social Council functions; then we can decide about elections.” ELECTION DELAYED Dan Campbell and Rocky Walker were nominated for the chairmanship by Meschan and Lee Fanning, respectively. After Campbell’s election John Fagg moved to postpone the election of aTreasurer until next week, during which time potential candidates might be reached and questioned. The postponement passed 13-3-1. The other major business was the presentation of a report by Billy Clark, Randy McKnight, and Fanning, who had been appointed last week to submit proposals for consideration on the council's stand on the campus social situation. Clark, as chairman, read the preliminary draft. Several differing opinions immediately arose. Julian Prosser said, "We ought to express our social concern for Independents, too." President Bill Council agreed, "We have to be careful not to misrepresent anything; we should represent the best interests of the student body at large." But Bob Bryan asked rhetorically, "Isn't the best interest of the majority also the best interest of the college?" Rather than accept the unfinished wording of the Clark report, Sackett tried to table David Walker's motion to adopt it. (See Page Six)

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Hugh Anderson, 1965 Otts Lecturer, received an enthusiastic, if not wildly excited, response from Davidson College Wednesday and Thursday. Anderson proved to be a Scottish churchman in the best Davidson tradition—even though he is from Duke. He was very Scottish in speech and looks. He was also very scholarly without being dull on the whole, although one student was led to remark, "I liked him pretty well, but he almost put me to sleep a couple of times."

Anderson opened by complimenting Davidson. "Some of the best doctoral students I have ever had have come from this college," he commented. He then launched into the body of his message, saying, "No figure has haunted the mind of men more than Jesus." He called Christ’s influence "one of the most astounding facts in the long history of the human race." However, history outside of the New Testament does little more than confirm that Jesus really did live. We must, therefore, rely largely on the Gospels for historical information. These are not simple biographies, however. "The Gospels themselves issue from the very heart of the primitive Christian community. Whatever the Gospels have to say about the real-life history of Jesus is hidden under the Church's proclamation of the Christ."

He traced the decline of the acceptance of the Gospels as pure history through the rise of form criticism and extreme skepticism. The controversy still rages, but Anderson was encouraged by the fact that the pendulum is swinging back. While the "tradition (of the Gospels) shows every sign of being retouched" by the Church, "we can feel well pleased that the period of skepticism is waning."

At his lecture in chapel yesterday, Anderson revealed more of his own opinions about the historical Jesus. After a brief introduction by President D. G. Martin, he opened with a quick resume of the problem presented by the Gospels. He recognized that a study of first-century Jewish and Christian thought is valuable. "If you say that Jesus was completely unlike contemporary Judaism and completely unlike what the primitive Church thought of Him, you make Him a real oddball." He commented that such studies are not a panacea, though. "The most singular thing about the presentation of Jesus in the Gospels is the presence of opposing tendencies in one life," according to Anderson. He went on to draw several examples, especially in Christ’s identification with sinners while offering them forgiveness. This was the "conduct of a man who dared to place himself in God’s stead."

Anderson concluded that the quest of Jesus the man was vital today because men of flesh and blood need an example of flesh and blood. Religion cannot stand apart from life, he admonished. "Don’t you forget what the Christian faith is."

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Chairman of the Board, stated that after having considered "all the diverse points of view... I believe that this is the most satisfactory solution that could be made." The action of the trustees altered the faculty action of April 13, 1965, by asking for deferred rush and pledging rather than the moratorium that was placed on these two phases of fraternity life by the vote of the faculty. The proposed new houses, to serve as open membership eating clubs, are to be built in accord with the decision of the administration after it has made a more complete survey of the need for the accommodations and the size and problems involved in their institution. Dr. Richards stated that although the funds to carry through with construction were not immediately available, he still feels "that funds can be found for it."

The decision of the trustees to ask the faculty to adopt a plan calling for deferred rush and pledging rather than the proposed moratorium was made with the idea in mind that the faculty proposal would work too much of a financial hardship on fraternities, Dr. Richards said. It is the idea of the trustees that rush and pledging for the class of 1969 take place during the latter part of the first semester of the academic year, 1965-66. Initiation of new members would take place "as soon after satisfactory completion of the first semester's work as the faculty may deem appropriate."

In commenting on the general feeling of the trustees on the proposal, Dr. Richards stated that he did not believe that there was any "real opposition to this action." Rev. Albert McClure, chairman of the trustee committee which studied the situation before the action of the Board, felt that a "very workable solution" had been reached.

Trustees Kill Oath, Adopt New Policy

The long-standing faculty oath was abolished by the Board of Trustees today in favor of a statement that the Administration and Trustees "satisfy themselves" as to the Christian faith of permanent faculty members. The Trustees’ action today follows several attempts to revise the long-standing faculty oath. The most recent action was last fall’s revision of the oath which retained the provision for written statements by prospective professors for tenure on the faculty. "We do not feel it is academically wise to catechize," stated Dr. J. McDowell Richards, chairman of the Board after the meeting this afternoon.

In other action today, the Trustees appointed Robert A. Currie as Business Manager and Treasurer of the college. The Trustees also named H. Edmunds White as Director of Admissions. He has been serving as Associate Director of Admissions previously. Finally, the Board approved a clarification of the Athletic Policy of the college. There was no change in policy but merely a restatement of the duties and responsibilities of the Athletic Committee of the Trustees, the Faculty Athletic Committee, the President, and the Athletic Council.

TEXT OF COUNCIL STATEMENT

The members of the Student Council have decided to present a concise statement of their views on the present re-evaluation of the social life at Davidson, in the hope that it may aid the Board in its consideration of the problem. We feel that the majority of the students we represent are in accord with most of the proposals embodied in the McGavock Report, the Inter-Fraternity Council Report, and the Minority of Four Report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee.

These reports point to certain inadequacies in our social life situation which we feel should be rectified. The principal area of difference in the above reports is that of rushing and pledging. It is concerning this issue, therefore, that we hope our expressed opinions will be of value. We feel that it is the consensus of the majority of the student body that fraternities in their proper role can continue to be of benefit to a large segment of the college community. While we are not in opposition to an experiment in delayed rush, we do oppose the total elimination of rush from the next school year. Such a delay is undesirable because:

1. There is a lack of adequate facilities for freshman activities.
2. It would definitely place an undue financial burden on fraternities.
3. Existing organizations would not be able to fulfill their proper roles due to the proposed rapid transition (College Union, intramurals, fraternities, etc.).
4. The incoming freshman will be placed in a situation of which he was not aware when he made plans to attend Davidson.
5. The short time remaining in the current school year will present a major handicap in solving the above problems.

In essence, we find that the McGavock Report incorporates our position with the exception of the timing and mechanics of rush. After much thought and consideration, we feel that the most practical solution calls for a definite rush period at some time during the first semester, during semester break, or at the beginning of the second semester. It is our desire that this statement of responsible student opinion will be of use in the solution to the problem at hand.