FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1965

‘MEANS BECOME ENDS’ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Buttrick Raps ‘Things’

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Once again Davidson has enjoyed a visit from possibly the most distinguished of its regular visitors, Dr. George Buttrick.

DR. GEORGE BUTTRICK

‘No Horizontal Progress...’

occurring during Freshman Orientation. Buttrick spoke first at Vespers Sunday night, then in chapel Monday morning. His topic Monday, which
pretty well summarized the topic of his visit, was “What's the Matter with Things?" He made three main points, two
in chapel and Vespers, and one at the regular coffee hour after chapel.

Dr. Buttrick, though his regular grounds are those of Northwestern University in Evanston, IL, is no stranger to Davidson students.
In fact, this is his second visit of this academic year.

In A World In Which...

One was that things, or “gadgets” (as he termed them), are a means, not an end. The second was that
things are relative, and can be used for good or evil. The third point was that you should never treat
things as things! Buttrick sums up his philosophy on gadgets in a single phrase, which forms the basis for his
whole theological system. “There can be no progress along the horizontal line," he says, “in a world in which every
man, including the last man, dies.”

Progress along the “horizontal line” is gadgetry and technology. Man’s devotion to and misuse of these “things” lead, feels Buttrick,
to regression along the vertical line, that is, lead man further from God.

Those who attended the coffee hour got an intimate glimpse of Buttrick the man, commenting on everything from television commercials
(“They peddle their spaghetti with evangelistic unction.”) to Christianity (“I'm not a Christian—there’s only been one—but I try.”) He delivered
messages to Davidson boys from their girls in his classes at Agnes Scott, where he is a visiting professor, and
offered to open lines of communication for the rest of us. “With special rates for chaplains,” he commented wryly.

In spite of the speaking defects that Buttrick has, both he and his audience enjoy themselves tremendously. He is a
master of the impressive pause, but can parry a question with a quick wit on occasion. In response to one
particularly ticklish question, he turned to chaplain Will Terry, whose receding hairline is a favorite local attraction, and asked, “Do
they try to trip you up like this? Is that why you're losing your hair?”

Buttrick ended formal discussion with a story illustrative of his philosophy on the growing importance of “things.” When he moved
to Chicago, he attended a North Chicago church for the first time. The usher asked if he were a stranger,
to which Buttrick replied affirmatively. “You've come to the right church,” said the usher. “There are 168 heads of corporations
in this church.” “Well,” answered Buttrick, “I pray for you.”

In short, he was entertaining and thought-provoking. He was the kind of speaker Davidson should have more often. When he
comes back, perhaps some day to teach here, he will be welcome.

Air France Cancels: Chorus To Fly Saturn

Davidson's Male Chorus will fly to Europe June 13 on a Saturn Airways DC-7C instead of an Air France jet
as was originally planned last fall. Alumni director Bill Bondurant explained that Air France had broken a contract with the
college late in January “for reasons of its own,” making it too late for him to charter another jet. Bondurant
described Saturn as a “certified US supplemental carrier” noting that it makes regular trans-Atlantic flights. The DC-7C, a propeller-driven airliner,
seats fewer people than the jet, but Bondurant said that this would make his job of filling it with alumni
and students somewhat easier than he had originally expected. Besides the Male Chorus, 30 alumni and students have asked for
places on the plane and at least 60 more have expressed an interest in the trip. According to Bondurant, chartering
a plane enables both the chorus and other persons to fly to Europe much more cheaply than if they flew
on a regular flight. A round-trip from Charlotte will cost $350 per person.

The Male Chorus has managed to raise about $11,000 toward paying for the trip. The contract with Saturn has made
it possible for the family of a student to fly to Europe even if the student does not go. The
previous contract did not permit this. “If Daddy won't send you, you send him,” joked Bondurant.

Fine Arts To Present Soprano

Evelyn McGarrity, mezzo-soprano, will be presented in concert at 8:15 p.m. March 4, in Hodson Hall. Miss McGarrity is a
graduate of the Curtis Institute of Music and has served on the faculty of Wesleyan College in Macon, Ga., and
the Opera Workshop at Indiana University. At present she is on the faculty of Louisiana State University. A winner of
the 1957 Young Artist Auditions of the National Federation of Music Clubs, she has toured the United States with Gian-Carlo
Menotti’s “The Consul” and in Italy, on a Fulbright Scholarship, she made a highly successful debut as Suzuki in “Madame
Butterfly.” Miss McGarrity has made important solo appearances with leading orchestras and choral groups, including the Collegiate Chorale under the
direction of Robert Shaw. For her Davidson program Miss McGarrity will sing a group of Beethoven songs, art songs by
Richard Strauss, Faure and Debussy, and selections by Vincent Persichetti and Delius. The featured operatic aria will be “Voi lo
sapete” from Mascagni's Cavalleria Rusticana. Anita Bultman, prominent Charlotte pianist, will serve as accompanist.

Other events on the Fine Arts Festival include the movie, “A Nous, La Liberte,” on March 9-10; a joint recital
by Grier Williams, trumpet, and Wilmer Welsh, harpsichord, March 12; Ralph Kneeream, New York organist, on March 19; a Chamber
Orchestra concert, March 21; and the Russian film, “Alexander Nevsky,” on March 23-24, plus art exhibits by W. Dabney Stuart,
Douglas Houchens, Lyder Frederickson, and Pierre Jacquemon.

‘AGE OF CONFUSION’ Newcombe Expounds

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“American Confusion,” exposed and expounded upon by Alan Newcombe, took a heavy beating last Tuesday in Chambers. Newcombe, known to
many as the “Atlantic Weather Man” and editorial opinion reader of WBTV, and to a few as Director of Public
Affairs with Jefferson Standard Broadcasting Company and author of the story of his POW experiences in WWII, Vacation With Pay,
proved to be fully capable of devastating this and many other related topics.

First stating the theorem that freedom “comes from acceptance by a majority of the population... of one of two possible
explanations for existence, “the first one being ‘the Declaration of Independence... ‘all men are created equal’... and the second being
‘Men are not created: they are another form of animal life,’” Newcombe proceeded to show what each explanation leads to.
The latter theory, by doing away with a creator “makes communism a very logical form of existence,” for according to
Newcombe, “Every human being chooses an ultimate authority. If it is not the Creator, it is obviously man himself.” Man
then transfers his authority to the state.

Next Newcombe dazzled his audience by informing them that the idea that “Man is created has nothing to do with
religion—it is scientific assumption.” Although God, the Founding Fathers, are all obviously behind the Constitution, Newcombe lamented the fact that
now, at a time of the greatest church membership, there are “fewer people ascribing to the idea that a democracy
is based on God.”

In dealing with extremists in the United States, Newcombe declared that they were necessary if we are to have a
“full society where freedom of speech is not a mere place of extracurricular activities at Davidson, as well as a
few words on religious life at Davidson and the challenge that it presents to religious thought. There will also be
comments on the basis of democracy.expres-i9"% the academic atmosphere sion, but they should not command too much attention. Their opposing
opinions are, in fact, turned into a useful synthesis, in which compromise lies our real strength as a nation. Our
moral confusion is another problem tackled by Newcombe. Stating that “Morally our menace lies in confusing liberty with libertinism,” he
went on to say that if a society falls below certain moral standards, “that society falls apart.” But it is
said that human nature is evil, and that we cannot change it, therefore what are we to do to stop
the moral decay of our society? The answer, according to Newcombe, is not to try to “change” human nature, for
it is not a fixed thing, therefore it cannot be changed; but we should try to steer it in a
worthwhile direction. This direction is the upholding of the Golden Rule in its true sense. This is to “love every
human being whether you like him or not,” and to “Do what you do to him for his own good.”
Thus we can “influence” human nature.

A short new section on the new members of the faculty will cover what they have done, their qualifications, and
their degrees. Another section, Snider said, will include all statistics on the new Freshman Class: the number of class presidents,
scholarship winners, letters won, and other similar lists of information. This profile will be much the same as the one
put out by the Admissions Office each year. The 1965 Handbook will again come out in two editions, one without
room numbers and one with room numbers. “It takes a little more money,” Snider stated, “but it is more than
worth it.” Pictures of the student body officers and college officials will be action shots rather than posed headshots of
the past. Another projected change will be the replacement of the cartoons which separate the sections by photographs. The staff
besides Snider will be Bill McGuire, business manager, with Paul Marion, Wayne Mangum, Thom Blair, John Callender, Gary DeVane, Johnny
Jeter, Richard Little, and John Sartorious as section editors.

New Hall Counselor Selections Due Soon

Hall counselors for the year 1965-66 will be announced early next month, reports Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr.
Counselors are chosen from rising seniors who have served this year as hall counselors, and from a group of well-qualified
rising juniors and seniors who have been asked by the Dean of Students to consider the job. Interested students should
contact the Dean of Students office. Dean Burts commented that “Hall counselors have an opportunity for leadership and responsibility.” Pay
for the year is one-half room rent. On April a training period will be held for the new counselors. A
preview of the role of hall counselor will be given and discussed by the Dean of Students, Supervisor of Dormitories,
College Chaplain, Counseling Office, and Freshman Advisor.

Snider praised his staff, saying, “I just gave them their assignments to work on, and they've done them. If they
come up with any good ideas, and they have, they'll be used.” The only problem encountered so far this year
has been that of enough money. Last year's handbook ran in the red, and this year’s edition may need to
have more funds from the college. Snider concluded by saying, “I don’t anticipate any problems. If the guys keep getting
in the material, we'll have a real fine Handbook.”

Mrs. Bill Wiseman On Magazine Board

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Davidson College will be represented this year on Mademoiselle’s College Board by Claire Metcalfe Taylor, ’66.” This arresting bit of
information came to light recently by way of a chic (black on pink) press release marker “for immediate release.” Since
this is hardly the sort of thing one normally hears about a Davidson student, an investigation ensued. “It's not exactly
what it seems,” the former Miss Taylor (now Mrs. Bill Wiseman) was quick to point out. She went on to
note that she won “the distinction last year at UNCG; since board members normally continue as reporters-in-residence through their remaining
college years, Davidson has added another distinction.” Said Mrs. Wiseman, “I did fill out one brief questionnaire this fall in
which I noted my situation and made a few observations on local male fashion.” Her remarks were confined to some
local affinities in dress, including omniscient label consciousness, which keeps Rush Wilson Ltd. solvent.

Originally in winning the award, Mrs. Wiseman submitted “Tradition at WC.” “Dress and looks have nothing to do with it,”
she pointed out. She has recently completed the second phase of the competition—a matter involving some original journalistic work. This
phase is supposed to show specific aptitude for journalistic work and is climaxed by the awarding in May of 20
Guest Editorships. In making these awards, Mademoiselle offers a trip to Europe, journalistic experience, and an opportunity for a position
on the magazine's staff. One of the 20 winners in the international competition last year was the first colored student
to enter WC. Mrs. Wiseman expressed the pride of her former alma mater in being so honored but held out
little hope for her own entry. “It was easy,” she said. But the damage has already been inflicted in the
changing face of Davidson. One wonders if the work of our fashion representative will reach the confines of the college
laundry where Col. Clyde Stacks and his destructive crew daily labor. It is, one would suppose, to be doubted.

IRC Plans US Policy Discussion

Davidson's International Relations Club (IRC) will sponsor an on-campus session of Great Decisions...1965, an annual program on eight different foreign
policy topics, prepared by the Foreign Policy Association. The program will run for about eight weeks, with at least one
meeting per week. Among the topics to be discussed are, “Red China—Menace or Paper Tiger?” and “Vietnam—Is Victory Possible?” Jim
Brindell, IRC President, said the program is designed “to make the individual more aware of the issues involved in various
critical areas of U.S. foreign policy.” He added that the discussion format allowed participants to express their own ideas on
the subjects, too.

Brindell said that 15 persons had expressed an interest in the program, but he was unsure as to the final
number of participants. “A small group of eight would be easily workable,” he said. If a great many persons become
interested he admitted that he might have to form several groups. Each participant is provided with a Fact Sheet Kit
containing background material for each topic to be discussed. In addition, the kit will contain a ballot on which the
person may express his opinion as to the direction U.S. foreign policy should take in each of the cases presented.
The ballot may be sent to a congressman or senator to make an individual’s viewpoint known. “The idea, I think,
is essentially very good,” commented Brindell, noting that this is the first time that this program has been tried on
the campus. “We'll get the kits and see where we can go from there,” he continued. The Foreign Policy Association,
“a non-partisan educational agency,” has made the Great Decisions materials available nationally for ten years.

YRC Squelches Coup

Davidson’s Young Republicans, in the midst of a breach caused by incidents at the recent State Convention, anticipate a more
reserved atmosphere at their March 3 meeting. Joe Beard, a member of the club’s conservative element, said this week: “I
plan to stay in my room during the meeting. In other words, I do not plan to attend.” In way
of an explanation for his action, Beard said, “A certain conflict between the president and me, begun at the convention,
would make my presence at the meeting detrimental to the best interests of the club.”

Beard explained the origin of the “conflict” by stating that, two weeks before the convention, Edgar had agreed to support
my candidacy for district liaison officer. At the convention he decided that he did not support the same. “After he
had spoken to Hal Clark, who had also previously assured me of his support, Hal and he informed me of
Hal’s candidacy. I consider Mr. Edgar’s action to be detrimental to the unity of the club.”

When asked to elaborate Beard remarked, “For me to make any additional comments would seem to imitate the uncalled-for actions
of Mr. Edgar.” YRC President Walter Edgar, hearing of Beard's decision, explained, “If Beard does not attend, his motion for
reconsideration will die.” Viewing the meeting, Beard said, “I hope that a thorough debate will be allowed, although my own
motion for reconsideration is to be withdrawn.” Hearing of the statement, Mr. Edgar commented, “Of course there will be discussion
if desired, but for all practical purposes the club’s resolution opposing the law was passed at the last meeting.” The
election of a new chairman for the club’s nominating committee is among other business scheduled for the meeting.
