QUEENIE REBUTS HARRINGTON’S COLUMN (See Page Two)

VOL. LV

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1965

CAGERS READY FOR ECC PIRATES (See Page Five)

NUMBER TWELVE

Faculty Again Alters Regulation To Limit Off-Campus Drinking

TWO MAIN POINTS

Burks’ Honor Proposal: Stirs New Controversy

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

It looks like another tempest is brewing in the Davidson teapot. John Burks, senior member of the Honor Court, has
proposed what could prove to be radical changes in student government. Burks’ plan, which he presented to the student body
in Monday's chapel, contains two cardinal points. First, he called for “deletion of the part of the oath of office
taken by members of the Student Council and Honor Court stating ‘that I will be honor bound to report any
violation of the Honor System or any other provision of the Constitution which comes to my attention.’” He quickly pointed
out that under the Honor System all students, including council and court members, would still be bound to report honor
violations.

The second point calls for a general referendum on all the Student Body Regulations. Burks contended, “If we say we
are going to make ‘duty’ mean something to the student body it seems to me that we must have a
system of regulations affirmed by the present student body and towards which we may legitimately expect students to feel responsible.”
The effect of these proposals would be to place the responsibility for enforcement of the regulations, which heretofore has been
solely that of Student Council and Honor Court members, equally on the shoulders of all students.

At a special Open End Monday night (attended by ten people, at least) one student asked about the possible consequences
if the drinking rule were not retained in the referendum. Nobody ventured to predict definitely what the administration's reaction might
be. However, Burks emphasized, “My proposal is not aimed at any one regulation. It's aimed at alleviating what I think
is a very unfair method of enforcement of these regulations.” He revealed that his interest in changing the existing situation
springs from a study carried out last summer by a committee, of which he was chairman, composed of Honor Court
members. They studied the honor systems of various other schools and read widely on the subject. During the course of
this study, Burks decided that, “It is completely illogical and unfair to require any one group of students to be
more responsible than another.” The result of such a situation is to set up a police force of a few
students amidst a generally apathetic student body.

“The main reason that students don’t feel any responsibility toward these regulations is that they don’t approve of them,” Burks
emphasized. “Another reason is that they haven't had to feel responsible. I don't think that, (being a policing body) is
the function of a student council or honor court.” Whether or not a special body of students or others in
control of student conduct can be dispensed with remains to be seen. “The whole thing boils down to how much
value each student places on maintaining student jurisdiction in these areas,” Burks said. “Let them delete whichever regulations they don't
believe should be under their jurisdiction.”

Fraternity Functions Excluded From Change

The faculty amended the drinking rule once again Wednesday to prohibit consumption of alcoholic beverages at college-sponsored functions or at
functions where

(Staff Photo by Purvis)

BURKS PRESENTS PLAN AT OPEN END

Claims Students Don’t Approve of Regulations

OATH OF OFFICE

Council Alters Bylaws

The Student Council, in a special meeting Wednesday night, approved a change in the Student Body Bylaws which would make
Council and Honor Court members no longer honor bound to enforce Student Body Regulations.

OATH OF OFFICE

The change, brought about by deletion of Section 6 of the Student Bylaws, which contains the oath of office, passed
by a 12-0 vote with one abstention and one absence. Council president Bill Council stressed that the change does not
go into effect until a new oath is taken by Council and Court members. The Council also approved a student
body referendum to be held Thursday on the Student Body Regulations. Council will read the referendum Tuesday in assembly and
a vote will be taken Thursday. The referendum will give students a chance to decide which section of the present
regulations they wish to be deleted. If a particular regulation receives a two-thirds negative vote it can be deleted by
provision of the Constitution. Said Honor Court member Burks in anticipation of the poll, “If the students vote to retain
a dry campus, then they must take a greater responsibility in maintaining it.” Council added that should the student body
delete its drinking rule, the faculty will probably take more stringent measures to retain and enforce theirs.

Council announced that the actual vote count on Tuesday's poll was 304-39 in favor of changing the present rule making
Honor Court and Student Council members honor bound to report violations of the Student Body Regulations.

EQUAL RESPONSIBILITIES

Burks, questioned as to his true motive for suggesting the change, replied, “My purpose is to equalize the responsibility for
upholding the Student Body Regulations.” Bob Bryan added: “The main issue we are considering here is the fact that we

IFC Plans To Report Parties

The Interfraternity Council changed the beginning time for the final period of silence and also discussed registering of off-campus parties,
at its regular meeting Monday night. The final period of silence was previously scheduled to begin Dec. 17 at 5
p.m. In order to coincide with Christmas break, this period will begin instead on Saturday, Dec. 18 at 12:10 p.m.
There is no change in the end of the period of silence which will be Monday, Jan. 3 at 8
a.m.

Since the college is now officially recognizing off-campus parties, it has required that all such parties must be registered. The
IFC decided that it would assume the responsibility for registering these parties as had been suggested. Parties must be registered
with the IFC secretary at least 48 hours in advance of the party. This rule is to go into effect
immediately. When questioned as to the reason for registering parties, Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, replied, “As far as I
am concerned, it is just to know where parties are going on in case of any emergency.” Discussion turned to
the definition of a “party,” but no complete definition was reached. It was, however, generally agreed that any social affair
for which money is taken out of the fraternity treasury should be considered a party.

Jim Terry, IFC president, announced that the annual Christmas party for the Barium Springs Orphans will be held Thursday night,
Dec. 16. There will be about 75 children from age 6 to 12. Each fraternity will have from six to
eight children for supper and a short party.

Total 566 Applications for admission to Davidson are running behind last year’s total while still ahead of the number received
two years ago, according to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions. White reported that 566 applications had been received at
the end of November. On that date last year, 660 had been received, while two years ago the total was
only 495.

For the first time in five years, all acceptances will be mailed at the same time, April 14. Previously, the
admissions office had sent them out in three groups, on Feb. 20, March 20 and throughout April.

NEW METHOD

“The more select colleges have used this new method for quite some while,” said White. “We're switching to it for
the same reasons they did. We think we can do a better and fairer job by using one acceptance date.
In the past we were accepting boys before all the scores and forms were in. We were operating on incomplete
information.”

Last year admissions reached decisions on 1274 applications, accepting 426 or one-third of the total. Sixty-five per cent (278) of
those accepted enrolled this fall.

EARLY DECISION

Sixty boys have already been accepted by early decisions on Nov. 15. White said he wants about 270 acceptances, or
210 more.

For Year

“Only once in the past five years have we missed the desired total enrollment by more than five," he said.
“We'll accept about 340 in April under the new plan, although we want only 210. The problem now is knowing
how many will enroll. It scares the heck out of me.”do not consider drinking an honor offense, and therefore should
not be honor bound to report offenses related to drinking."

VIET NAM

Council next presented a plan originated by Pinckney Whitson which would hopefully supply 10,000 copies of Playboy magazine to U.S.
soldiers in Vietnam. The idea stemmed from a letter in the magazine from a soldier who complained that there was
a severe shortage of copies in that area of the world. Whitson contacted a Playboy executive who said he could
probably procure the needed supply if Whitson could find a way to round them up. Then Whitson must find a
way to get them to Marietta, Ga., where a plane will fly them to Vietnam.

Designated representatives of the college are participating. The new amendments were approved by a “good majority,” according to President D.
Grier Martin. The amendments which were added to the faculty-approved rule were the recommendations of the joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on
Alcoholic Beverage Policy which had previously been deleted from that committee's motion.

The organization of the committee itself was recommended by the faculty on Dec. 8, 1964, but the first meeting was
held on Aug. 20 of this year. It consists of both trustees and faculty with its members being appointed respectively
by Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of Trustees, and President Martin. Representing the trustees are D. R.
LaFar Jr. and Dr. Thomas G. Thurston. Faculty members serving are Dr. W. G. Workman and Dr. J. G. Martin.
Both Richards and President Martin serve as ex officio members of the joint committee.

FRATERNITY PARTIES

The faculty amendments essentially “take us back where we were, except for fraternity parties," commented Professor Martin. “Groups having parties
will still have to register, but there is no prohibition on moderate drinking.” This new faculty action will prohibit any
drinking at college-sponsored functions and functions where designated representatives of the college are participating. Also, no drinking or transporting of
alcoholic beverages will be allowed by a student while he is participating as a designated representative of the school.

Professor Martin stated that the reason the two recommendations had been deleted by previous faculty action was the “concern had
been raised only in a casual way," and the committee felt that the motions “needed to have emphasis placed on
them.” Concern over the deletion of the two recommendations by the previous faculty action came from Dan Campbell, chairman of
the Social Council, and Coach Heath Whittle, assistant director of athletics. Campbell has stated for THE DAVIDSONIAN that the first
rule change would have placed pressure on the Social Council to have parties for the student body off campus where
drinking would have been allowed by the action of the faculty in October.

Professor Martin said that “the majority of students disagree with Campbell.” But the committee felt that the complaint issued by
the president of the Social Council should be taken into consideration. Professor Martin said that the action of the faculty
on Wednesday “reflects the judgment of the committee that students representing the college should not consume alcohol.”

DISCIPLINE PROBLEM

“The coaches felt that they could handle the discipline problem," Martin continued, “but they were afraid of an unexpected situation
arising in the future.” According to Martin, the faculty action will do away with unnecessary accidents on athletic trips and
“prevent loss of team morale, and also, we need to maintain the support of the public.”

The only confusing aspect of the faculty ruling is the meaning of a “designated representative of Davidson College.” According to
Richard C. Burts, dean of students, the term “designated representative” will cover students in these instances: 1) Students whose expenses
are being paid by the college; 2) those selected by the college to attend; 3) those whose absences are excused
by the college. “I think these three will cover it,” Burts concluded.

Complete Text Of Amendments

Following is the text of the amendments adopted by the faculty Wednesday. Boldface indicates the changes in the rules.

Item 5 of the Faculty Regulations on Student Conduct (Wildcat Handbook pp. 62-63) is amended to read:

9. Alcoholic Beverages. Davidson College is opposed to the use of alcoholic beverages by students. A student will ordinarily be
suspended if he is found guilty of violating any of the following regulations:
a. No student shall consume or be under the influence of an alcoholic beverage (1) while he is within the
Town Limits of Davidson or on the Campus of Davidson College (which includes the Lake Campus) unless he is within
the home of his immediate family or (2) while he is in attendance at any event which is sponsored by
Davidson College or in which student representatives designated by the college are participating.
b. No student shall have an alcoholic beverage in his possession within the Town Limits of Davidson or on the
Campus of Davidson College other than in the home of his immediate family or in the locked trunks of student
automobiles.
c. No student shall transport, have in his possession, or consume an alcoholic beverage during the period bounded by his
travel to and from an event in which he participates as a designated representative of Davidson College.

Student drinking not covered by these regulations may be dealt with under Item 1 of the Faculty Regulations stated under
STUDENT CONDUCT. (The student should be familiar with relevant portions of public law dealing with the purchase, consumption, and automobile
storage of alcoholic beverages.)

Dave Clark Five Presents Its Philosophy Of Life

By BILL SEIGLER and KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Feature Writers

“The rock ’n roll craze? Oh, it will probably last for a long time, but we won’t,” said Dave Clark
of England's famous Dave Clark Five Sunday afternoon. Mike Smith, the organist of the group, agreed: “I should think I'd
be at least a retired old gentleman by the time it ends. They've been saying that it’s dying for years,
but it still keeps going.”

The group was at the Charlotte Coliseum for a concert sponsored by Hit Attractions, Inc. Before the performance, two DAVIDSONIAN
reporters, granted a special interview with them, went backstage with five excited teenage girls, winners in a “Meet the Dave
Clark Five” contest, who were carrying a plum pudding to their idols.

DAVE CLARK FIVE PAUSES FOR INTERVIEW

“We Got Together To Raise Money”

At least 5,000 other girls were sitting outside, not-too-patiently enduring the performance of two lesser-known rock 'n roll groups. Momentarily
at a loss for words, the two reporters were soon put at ease by the casual friendliness of the visitors
from England. According to Clark, he, Smith, Dennis Payton, Rick Huxley, and Lenny Davidson, decided to cash in on the
rock 'n roll boom 3½ years ago, after they had met and become good friends in a North London athletic
club. Their motives were purely financial. “We got together to raise money,” stated Payton.

Clark said that on this tour they planned to spend three weeks in the U.S., appearing in 21 different cities.
He admitted that the tour was a hard grind, but added, “We still never get tired of it.” “That's true,”
smiled Smith, “but I would enjoy it a lot more if we could stay in one place for a while.”

When Clark was asked to what extent his group had been influenced by the Beatles, he replied, “Not at all.
Our first hits were on the charts at the same time theirs were.” He added that he enjoyed the Beatles’
music, remarking that Ringo is an “excellent drummer.” Denis Payton maintains that they have no rivalry with the Beatles, or
with the Rolling Stones either. “I like both groups,” he said. He did note, however, that the sales of their
new records compared “well” with those of the other two groups.

Clark stated that the group wanted to make a movie in the future. “But not like the Beatles’ movies. We
want to play character parts. No songs.” When Payton was asked to what extent he thought their appeal to teenage
girls depended on their long hair, he grinned, “We haven't got long hair.” When asked who did have long hair,
if they didn’t, he said, “Oh, I'd have to think about that one for a while. Some of the more
controversial groups, I guess.”

All of them seemed to like Charlotte and the United States in general. Clark remarked that he had enjoyed his
stay in Charlotte last summer, and that he...

(Continued On Page Six)
