PAGE FOUR

Benchwarming
By BILL BRIGGS
Davidsonian Sports Editor

PHILOSOPHY OF SORTS...

Traditional with the switch in Davidsonian staff members comes some sort of switch in philosophies, ideas, and stands. Never let
it be said that the Sports Department of the paper is out to buck hallowed tradition. So to satisfy tradition
mainly, and also anyone who could be remotely interested, I have hastily thrown together a few of my random ideas
on athletics and formed some sort of something you might call “Sports Philosophy”—or filler trash, depending on your mood.

The different objects of athletics are known to each of us. The emphasis on these objects is where individual “philosophies”
differ. Sports build a competitive spirit that has advantages far beyond a playing field. Sports heighten a sense of fair
play. Sports sharpen the mind and strengthen the body. Sports are an outlet for pent-up energy. They provide an escape
from pressures that tend to clutter up the mind and cloud mental outlooks on life, schools, books, etc., etc. Sports
give an unlimited field for fun. They provide hours of conversation, amusement, and relaxation for the individual.

Sports also have broader values than those for the individual. Sports, especially at a place like Davidson, have an important
effect on “the Group.” “The Group” becomes identified with their school’s athletic teams. Through sports “the Group” gains a feeling
of unity, a spirit that can grow stronger and deeper and give enthusiasm and pride where apathy and pseudo-sophistication once
ruled.

As a part of this group, I emphasize another side of sports. Cold and heartless, ruthless and realistic, I emphasize—to
the disgust of the ‘purist’—winning. Now calm down if this upsets you. I don’t mean that “how you play the
game” isn’t important, on the contrary. All the other benefits of athletics, which are considered objects of sports—improvement of mind,
body, and spirit; relaxation; pleasure; enjoyment; etc., etc.—are important, and I don't want to belittle them. The benefit they give
the individual undoubtedly outweighs the immediate value of a victory. No one contests this.

With winning as the main object, the other benefits of sports aren’t necessarily lost. In its right perspective winning can
increase the value of these other things. Sportsmanship, relaxation, competitive spirit, physical strength, health, and all the other mentioned objects
or benefits of sports should never be forgotten. Winning must never be so much the object that it replaces these
things. But there isn’t yet so much an emphasis on winning around Davidson that the other sides of athletics are
in danger. For the group especially and the individual to a large degree winning is important.

I feel like my stand isn’t really too controversial. I don’t expect too much disagreement. Frankly, I don't expect anybody
to have read this far. If winning isn’t the primary object of an athlete, he is missing the point of
keeping score.

POLICY, TOO...

As a postscript I might throw out a little statement of Sports Editor policy I plan to follow. I will
give credit where it is due, without hesitation or hedging. I will compliment when I feel I am able to
do so without getting corny. But I also expect I'll criticize a little—constructive criticism with a mind for improvement as
well as criticism of things that are wrong, but unchangeable (e.g. the Southern Conference Tournament). Hopefully wit, sarcasm, cynicism, satire,
cold facts, and reality will be my weapons... not a very imposing arsenal.

FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1965

FOOTBALLERS WORK OUT
Spring Practice Begins
By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

When spring finally comes most people are ready to forget about fall and the return of cold weather. Nevertheless, there
are exceptions. Last Tuesday Homer Smith’s footballers began working out for the coming season.

Spring football practice brought gray winter spectres into sharp focus for 53 varsity players and five coaches. When, on May
8, the last practice will have been completed, head coach Homer Smith should know just where his Wildcats stand. As
any good coach, Smith is cautious not to draw conclusions from two days of spring practice. However, he notes, “The
first couple of days were very encouraging from a coaching standpoint. We will be ready to play well both offensively
and defensively. Of course, it is yet impossible to say how well we will do against other teams, but we
will play well.”

Tom Scott’s linkmen extended their season record to 7-3 during a “Good Deais” sweep through Florida that included victories over
Columbia, Patrick Air Base, Orlando AFB, and Jacksonville Naval Station, and a loss to Florida Southern. After arriving in Lakeland
they practiced on the local course through Monday, and on Tuesday the team played in a 3-way match with Florida
Southern and Columbia. Their first and only defeat of the week came in the form of an 11-19 loss to
Florida Southern. Columbia bowed to the ‘Cats 16½-10½. The next day the team moved to Cocoa Beach, where they took
Patrick Air Force Base 13-1. In the next two days they swung their way through Orlando Air Force Base 16½-13½
and wound up their 4-1 week with an easy 21½-8½ victory over Jacksonville Naval Air Station.

Marcon Explains Charge Made In Winston Paper
By SAM BOYTE
Assistant Sports Editor

“I think this whole matter has been blown up too far. It should never have been picked up by the
AP or even put in the Winston paper for that matter. I’m sorry, that is the way I feel.” This
was the opinion of Davidson’s Charlie Marcon about the minor basketball scandal that broke with an article in a Winston
Salem newspaper last week. Steve Clark, a recent Davidson graduate who is now a sports writer for the Winston-Salem Journal
quoted Marcon to the effect that conflict between Fred Hetzel and Don Davidson had prevented the Wildcats from improving on
their season mark.

MARCON
Feud or Not?

Marcon does not believe that any conflict between Hetzel andDavidson was important enough, but in a letter to the Winston-Salem
paper, Marcon said that he had spoken to Clark as a friend and a fellow Davidson graduate with no idea
that he would remember and print the conversation, which was later picked up by national wire services. The team had
also planned to play in a tournament at Cape Coral, but scheduling difficulties prevented it. Dr. Scott's reaction to the
team's performance was, "I thought they all played real good golf, extremely good considering that every match was played on
a course that was new to them. That’s always tough on a team.” The seven members of the team wound
up their tour on Saturday by playing on “one of the nation's finest courses” at Sea Island, Ga., and returned
Sunday, boasting a 7-3 overall record.

On Monday, the number-one Smith revealed that he will not cut the team; as indeed he could ill afford to
do. “We want all the boys hitting, hustling, and playing hard. Under the present substitution rule, we will be able
to substitute every position each time the ball changes hands. If we have the depth, we are going to platoon.
I think we'll have to.” The Wildcats will run from what Smith calls a “basic spread right, or spread left.”
This is simply splitting one end wide either to the right or left. There will be variations. There is little
chance, however, of trying anything so romantic as the innovation that Army used in which Lou Carpenter refused to join
the Cadet huddle. Coach Smith is no romantic. He is very much a realist. Yet he can objectively say, “I
see no critical weaknesses in any area of our squad. Some pretty determined boys are trying out in all positions.
I'm pleased with the way the boys are competing for each position.” The first year that Smith took over as
offensive backfield coach at the Air Force Academy, the Falcons received a bowl bid. Nobody is looking for the near
impossible, but a good deal of excitement (for Davidson) has been generated.

After winning six out of seven matches on the Florida tour, the Davidson tennis team plays three more matches this
week, facing Pfeiffer tomorrow, Old Dominion Tuesday, and St. Andrews on Thursday. Although none of the opponents are pushovers, the
Davidson fuzzballers are favored to win them all. Coach Fogleman added, “We've got to keep our momentum going for the
tough matches afterwards.” Saturday, the team journeys to play Pfeiffer, who always has one of the best tennis teams in
the North State Conference. The match originally scheduled with Wofford on Monday has been postponed until next Friday since the
match with Oglethorpe that day has been canceled. Davidson will play Wofford that Friday on its return trip from Emory.

On Tuesday, Davidson entertains Old Dominion College, a state-supported school in Norfolk, Va. Coach Fogleman commented on them, saying, “They
have a new coach and could surprise.” In its third match next week, Davidson plays St. Andrews here on Thursday.
Coach Fogleman has the playing order set now, consisting of the following players: 1) Bill Council, 2) Esmond Phelps, 3)
Bill Schutt, 4) Dick Hurd, 5) Peter Parrot, 6) Geordie Muel-ler, 7) Jimmy Davis, and 8) Jeff Frank.

You meet the nicest people on a Honda. Maybe it’s the incredibly low price. Or the fantastic mileage. It could
be the precision engineering. Or the safety and convenience features. But most likely it’s the fun. Evidently, nothing catches on
like the fun of owning a Honda. Join in. The first step is a demonstration ride. Why not today?

HONDA OF CAROLINA
5050 N. INDEPENDENCE BLVD. / CHARLOTTE

There is nothing so popular as Palm Beach's POPLINS and HOPSACKS, especially for the college man. Irresistibly priced at only
$45.00. Come in today and also see our interesting collection of Palm Beach Sport Coats, only $29.95 to $39.95.

La Roma Rendezvous in Charlotte at Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE'S “just up the road....”

New colors and a new, slimmer silhouette are yours with a new 1965 Palm Beach Poplin Suit. You will find
the tailoring especially attentive, featuring the exclusive “Contour Collar” that made Palm Beach famous for perfect fit. Palm Beach Poplins
are made from an easy-to-care-for blend of Dacron polyester and cotton that sheds wrinkles and hardly ever needs pressing. Wash
’n wear or dry clean. Styled with soft shoulder, narrow lapels, raised seams, and plain front trousers. Come in today
and try on this smartest of the smart summer poplins.

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS
Exclusively In Mooresville
John Mack & Son
Our 53rd Year
Come in And Browse
Charge Accounts Invited

Clark quoted Marcon as saying, “There was a personality conflict between Hetzel and Davidson. Don is quiet, unassuming while Fred
is very outgoing, and animosity developed between them.” Hetzel flatly denied the charge when told of it. Both coach Lefty
Driesell and athletic director Tom Scott dismissed the statement as ridiculous in light of the team's success during the three
years while Hetzel and Davidson played together. At the end of this season, the Wildcats achieved a 24-2 mark and
were ranked sixth in national newspaper polls.

SPORTS THIS WEEK
April 10
Tennis vs. Pfeiffer (A)
Baseball vs. Belmont Abbey (A)
Track vs. News-Piedmont Relays (A)

April 12
Tennis vs. Wofford (A)
Golf vs. VPI (H)

April 13
Tennis vs. Old Dominion (H)
Track vs. Presbyterian (A)

April 14
Baseball vs. West Virginia (2) (H)

April 15
Tennis vs. St. Andrews (H)
