PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

ODK Honorary Selects 7 Seniors, Professor

Seven seniors and a faculty member were tapped into membership by Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, during chapel Monday.
Membership in ODK is extended to campus leaders in the fields of scholarship, athletics, publications, and social, religious, dramatic, and
musical activities.

Dean Praises Leaders In Tapping Ceremony

Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston delivered the address for Omicron Delta Kappa’s fall tapping ceremony in chapel Monday. Replacing on
short notice Davidson Alumni Association President William A. White, who was taken ill the night before, Dean Johnston rose to
the occasion with a speech that drew upon his 30 years’ experience. He complimented the student body for its current
leaders, and he pointed out that the college enjoyed its periods of excellence, growth, and enrichment only when there was
strong student leadership. He advised those who would aspire to be leaders to learn above all else “simplicity in its
best sense.” Leaders need not possess mysterious qualities; rather they must have the “time-tested virtues” in extraordinary degree. In all
things, the dean advised, be yourself. Although a leader need not be different, he must be sincere, for “the pattern
of your life is but a mirror of your soul.” Upon completion of Dean Johnston’s remarks, Billy Clark presided over
the tapping of students, assisted by David Powell, Paul Simpson, and Bill Council.

PRAM Establishes Two More Chapters

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The first effort of Davidson's Project of the Americas to expand across the state was a “tremendous success,” according to
Glenn Withrow, chapter coordinator. Last weekend Davidson representatives visited six other North Carolina colleges to introduce their year-old program. They
talked to administrators, student leaders, and student organizations at Carolina, N.C. State, Duke, Wake Forest, UNC-G, and A&T College. “As
a result, two chapters are already established — at UNC-G and A&T,” said Withrow, “and they're holding meetings at the
other places this week.”

Project of the Americas, a Davidson-oriented organization “to improve the relations within our hemisphere through better cultural understanding,” was started
by Fred Ehlers, a 1964-65 Richardson Scholar from Quito, Ecuador. Originally a type of Ecuadorian Peace Corps for Davidson students,
the group hopes to send students from all over North Carolina to Peru, Colombia, Bolivia, and possibly Panama, as well
as Ecuador, this summer. “The way in which we were received around the state was very good,” said Withrow. “People
just couldn't believe that a group of students could put something like this together in one year. They were very
impressed and very enthused.” Project of the Americas calls its expansion program “Operation Explosion,” and Withrow said that “the whole
idea exploded beyond what we thought it could be last weekend.” “I hadn’t realized the true importance of this organization
until last weekend,” echoed senior representative Ken Childs. “Now I'm really enthusiastic about it.” The next project for the group
is raising $800,000 to provide continuous support for its program.

President To Hear Oratorio Singers

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, led by Donald B. Plott, music director, will be the featured chorus when President Lyndon
B. Johnson lights the National Christmas Tree tomorrow. The ceremony will take place in the President’s Park behind the White
House in Washington and will be televised live on all national networks at 5 p.m. The chorus, which is composed
of 150 singers, will perform the “Hallelujah Chorus” from the Messiah at the time President Johnson lights the tree. The
chorus will alternately present musical selections with the United States Marine Band. The Oratorio Singers will also present a half-hour
concert in the Rotunda of the Senate Office Building tomorrow at 1 p.m. Officials in Washington estimate that this will
be the largest chorus ever to sing in the Rotunda, which traditionally has choral concerts during the Yuletide season. Donald
B. Plott, director of the Oratorio Singers for six seasons, is chairman of the Music Department.

The following men were tapped:

Dr. John D. Kelton, associate professor of psychology, graduated from Davidson, and received his doctorate from the University of North
Carolina.

Bob Bryan, a history major from Atlanta, Ga., is president of Phi Delta Theta, chairman of the Fraternity President's Council,
a Distinguished Military Student, and a member of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. He is presently serving on the
Student Council, and has served on the Publications Board, as business manager of the Wildcat Handbook, and as a reporter
for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Honor Court member John Burks, a chemistry major from Bedford, Va., was elected this fall to Phi Beta Kappa, national
scholastic fraternity. He was president of Phi Eta Sigma, honorary scholastic fraternity for freshmen, and is program chairman for Alpha
Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity. He is also a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry. A member of Sigma
Chi, Burks holds a McConnell Scholarship.

Chairman of the YMCA's hall discussions and co-chairman of the College Union's Social Committee, Neil McBryde is from Durham. McBryde
was vice-president and pledge-trainer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa this fall and was chosen
for recognition in “Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities.”

Business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Irvine Welling, a member of “Who's Who,” is a business major from Greenville, S.C. Welling
is treasurer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and the Social Council; in addition, he has served as secretary of the Publications
Board.

Arnie Snider, a business major from Salisbury, is editor of Quips and Cranks. He served on the Student Council during
his sophomore year and was vice-president of his class. Snider is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, the Publications Board,
the Business-Economics Club, and a member of “Who’s Who.”

A history major from Salisbury, Britt Snider is a member of “Who's Who.” He was editor of the Wildcat Handbook
and serves currently as vice-chairman of the honor court. He serves on the business staff of Quips and Cranks and
on the Publications Board. A member of Pi Kappa Alpha, he is a freshman hall counselor.

A German major from Alexandria, Va., George Williams is a member of the Film Friends Committee, the YMCA forum committee,
Phi Eta Sigma, and Delta Phi Alpha, German honorary fraternity. He has been a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society
and the editorial board of Scripts and Pranks, as well as a reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Self-Study

By MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

(An Analysis)

The average Davidson professor is overworked and underpaid in comparison to his counterpart in superior colleges outside the South, according
to the Self-Study Faculty Committee. Improvement in the formal teaching load, from 15 semester hours per week to 12 semester
hours per week, was noted. But the large sizes of many courses in the core curriculum seemed to offset the
gains in more direct instructor-student confrontation.

Another factor cited as inter-

Trustees, Bureaucracy Need Full Revamping

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor

(An Analysis)

A revamping of the Board of Trustees with respect to its size and composition is the major recommendation put forth
by the recent Self-Study’s Committee on Organization and Administration. The committee's report also recommended a sweeping reorganization of the college
administration with respect to its channels of responsibility.

Recommending that the Board of Trustees be reduced to approximately one-half its present size, the committee noted that “some members
of the Board of Trustees might take a more personal interest in the work of that body and might feel
a greater sense of responsibility if the size of the Board were reduced to a point where each individual on
it would be able to engage actively in committee work.”

“The idea here,” notes committee chairman Dr. John C. Bailey, “is that all of the Board members could have active
work assignments and thus they would get to know the college better, take a greater interest in their work on
the Board and perhaps make greater contributions in the service of the college.”

The Self-Study group further favored representation on the Board from the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. and from
“one or two members-at-large from among persons with outstanding training and experience in the field of higher education” in addition
to the present representation from the supporting presbyteries in North Carolina and Florida and from the Alumni Association. It also
suggested that “the college would probably benefit by the presence of more men on the Board who are graduates of
institutions other than Davidson.”

The Organization and Administration group emphasized to a great extent the excess of responsibilities and duties, both formal and informal,
which burden the president of the college, and proposed as partial solution a reorganization of the lines of responsibility in
the college administration, with only four persons.reporting directly to the president: the dean of the faculty, the dean of students,
the director of Public Relations, and the treasurer and business manager. The major changes in the proposed reorganization would be
that the director of Admissions, the director of the library, the director of athletics, and the registrar would report directly
to the dean of the faculty instead of to the president, and the director of student counseling and the director
of the College Union would report to the dean of students instead of directly reporting to the president. Particular emphasis
was placed on the need for removing from the president the burden of dealing directly with many of the numerous
departmental and personal problems of the faculty, such as salary and promotional problems. The recommendation was made, “that members of
the faculty discuss with the dean of faculty all matters having to do with personal status and with the work
of individual departments of the college; that if a satisfactory conclusion cannot be reached in this manner, the matters may
be taken to the president of the college by either or both parties involved.”

A further recommendation was that the dean of students impose penalties on students for violation of the faculty rules, with
the student having the right of appeal to the faculty Executive Committee, rather than the Executive Committee being the original
court of jurisdiction in such matters. Comments Bailey, “Here we are just trying to reduce the time demands on the
nine members of the committee in cases where specific punishments for violations have been designated by the faculty. This recommendation
would in no way infringe upon a student’s right of appeal to the Executive Committee if he were dissatisfied with
the decision of the dean of students.”

A reorganization of the office of treasurer and business manager was recommended, including suggestions for the addition of a new
officer, the associate treasurer and business manager, and for delineation of areas of responsibility among personnel within the office. The
Self-Study Committee pointed out the weakness of the faculty's present operations as a deliberative body in faculty meetings and recommended
that “serious study be given the suggestion for the creation of a ‘Faculty Council’ to assume the responsibilities, make the
decisions, and exercise the legislative authority now invested in the faculty as a whole.”

Further recommendations included suggestions that the dean of students be responsible for the assignment of rooms and roommates to incoming
freshmen and for the selection of hall counselors. A further suggestion was that either the college or private capital construct
in the town suitable lodging for visitors, and that provision be made for women’s toilet facilities in fraternity houses, separate
from the housemothers’ apartments.

Overall, the body of the report seems to present reasons adequate to substantiate the recommendations for changes in addition to
providing an adequate description of the present organization and administration of the college.

LUDWIG VON MISES Still Keen-Minded At 90

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1965

Von Mises Discusses Inflation, Price Rise

Forced to remain seated during his Tuesday chapel talk because of his advanced age, economist Ludwig von Mises talked candidly
with the student body about the problem of inflation. One of the foremost neo-classical economists in America today, with teaching
experience at the Institute of International Studies in Geneva, the University of Mexico, and New York University, the 90-year-old didn’t
say anything particularly new or controversial, probably because of his realization that many would not understand him if he did.

The still keen-minded professor said inflation was “an increase in the quantity of money resulting in a rise in prices.”
Today, the term is used to describe a general increase in prices. This is misleading, he said in his heavy
Austrian accent, for it fostered the use of the phrase ‘inflationary pressures.’ There are no such things, he held, since
spending will increase only if money in the pockets does.

Von Mises described the two ways the government has of combating deficit spending: taxation and an increase in the quantity
of money. “Taxation will not cause inflation but will restrict expenditures.” The second alternative will cause inflation, since it will
“raise the income of some of the people, causing a lift in their buying power, which means a lift in
prices.” This hurts the buyers who were not included in the rise in income, and who before were the market
for the commodities. Von Mises had a warning, however: inflation was not fatal to the United States in 1781, he
said, because the nation was largely agricultural and could provide for its own subsistence. “Today, relations between men are based
on money, and any breakdown in the currency system could mean disaster for all.”

ALSO OVERWORKED

Interfering with effective teaching was the “hidden duties” of each professor. These “hidden duties” included clerical work (due to a
lack of secretarial help), committee work for the college, handling material and equipment (especially in the science areas). This work
was said to be taking too much time from the preparation and research needed to give the highest caliber instruction.

SALARIES

The area of faculty compensation includes both faculty salaries and fringe benefits. The recent salary increases of 1957-64 were commended
for improving the relative position of the Davidson professor. But these increases were termed insufficient because of very small increases
between 1951 and 1958. Data released from the AAUP for 1964-65 (824 institutions reporting) showed that Davidson ranked ninth in
the South among all educational institutions in average faculty salary and sixth among liberal arts colleges. The Self-Study Report concluded
that Davidson showed up quite well in faculty salaries in the South, but could not “compete on even terms with
the best colleges . . . in the Northeast and in the West.”

The average salary of the full professor in 1964 was $11,500; associate professor, $9,663; assistant professor, $8,032; instructor, $6,625. The
average salary for the entire faculty was $9,730; this is nine-months salary and does not include summer school salary (which
the committee deemed inadequate).

FRINGE BENEFITS

The fringe benefits that Davidson offered to the average faculty member, said the report, enabled the College to compare favorably
with any school in any section of the country. These fringe benefits include retirement-annuity, hospital insurance, major medical insurance, tuition
exchange for faculty children, death benefits, sabbatical leaves with full or half-salary, and free admission to athletic events at the
college. For all insurance policies of any kind sponsored in part by the college, Davidson pays anywhere from 10 percent
to 100 percent of the premiums for the professor and his family. Most of this coverage by the college is
continued when the professor or faculty member is on sabbatical.

SABBATICALS

At present, faculty members eligible for sabbatical leaves receive full salary for a semester's absence, half-salary for a year's absence.
The relatively small number of men involved in sabbatical leaves each year was in part attributed to the inadequate salary
compensation for full-year leaves of absence. The committee report recommended that full salary be given to men on one-year sabbaticals.

The average Davidson professor or associate professor has a PhD (odds are 1 to 2 that it came from either
Duke or Carolina) and got his undergraduate degree from Davidson. The committee implies that this should be changed in the
not-too-distant future by hiring men with more varied backgrounds.

MODIFY THE OATH

The question of faculty qualifications is set out in the section on faculty recruitment. The report suggests that it would
be better to continue to modify the faculty oath so that men with more varied intellectual beliefs could attain tenure
at Davidson. One of the proposals is that a program of visiting professors with non-Christian backgrounds be established along with
a program of research instructorship. This last program would help acquaint Davidson students planning to go on to graduate school
with the nature and methods of graduate-level research.

Members of the Self-Study Committee on the Faculty are R. R. Bernard, chairman; E. A. Beaty, J. O. Embry, J.
I. Hopkins, J. A. McGeachy, E. F. Patterson, M. E. Polley, D. D. Rhodes, and J. S. Winkler.
