FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1965

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Because nobody but the IMAC officers seem to know the IMAC point system, it might be well to explain it this year before the overall standings come out again and everybody gets p.o.’ed again about how in the world everybody else finished ahead of them.

Sports are divided into three categories: major (flickerball, basketball, softball, and volleyball), intermediate (swimming, wrestling, track), and minor (handball and tennis).

According to the point system, a team gets 50 points for entrance in a major sport, which is usually automatic, 100 points are allotted as achievement points, and additional points are awarded for the first five places (10, 7, 5, 3, and 1 respectively). Achievement points are awarded by dividing the number of wins by the championship team in a major sport into 100 and then determining teams’ totals by multiplying their number of wins by the quotient derived above. For instance, the Kappa Sigs won 12 flickerball games; thus each win was worth 8-1/3 points. A team that won 9 games and finished third would get 50 entrance points, 75 achievement points, and 5 points for finishing third, for a total of 130 points in flickerball.

Intermediate and minor sports are scored generally the same way, except that 40 entrance and 80 achievement points are allotted for the middle bracket, and 30 entrance and 60 achievement points are given for minor sports.

The thing that is unfair about this system is arbitrarily designating some sports as major, intermediate, and minor, with little justification for the point differences awarded. Certainly basketball should be worth more than handball, but why should volleyball be worth more than track, or swimming be more important than tennis?

A more equitable situation would have two classifications; a major sports bracket would be for the sports that are both team sports and in which standings are determined by a playing season in which every team meets every other team, i.e. flickerball, basketball, and softball. Minor sports would be those not meeting both of these requirements. There are more participants in some of these sports, such as swimming and track, but round-robin schedules or double-elimination tournaments which are not decided in a single day give more accurate and fairer standings in sports such as tennis and handball. In other words, there isn’t enough difference between volleyball and the “intermediate” and “minor” sports to warrant different categories and different point allotments, thus penalizing fraternities strong in the “minor” sports to the advantage of those strong in “intermediate” sports.

Another inequity in the IMAC program is the inconsistency in barring members of the freshman football, basketball, baseball, and tennis teams from participating in these sports, but having the two-day tournaments or meets early enough so that freshman swimming, track, and wrestling team members can participate. To continue in their inconsistency, the IMAC rules bar freshmen from participating in indoor track, but allow the other spring track team members to participate.

The IMAC’s purpose is to provide organized athletics for students who aren’t on teams representing the college. Eligibility should be determined with this in mind. Of course, the main obstacle to providing a fairer system of eligibility has been the attitude of freshman coaches, as this year’s IMAC can readily attest. Admitted, it isn’t that big a deal, but it is hoped that either this year’s council or the one taking over this spring will do something about the system, which has remained unchanged for years.

LEFTY’S CAMP

Lefty reports that the applications for his summer basketball camp have started to flow. The boys coming, ranging in age from 8 to 18, will pay $80.00 for a week of basketball instruction by the Wildcat coaching staff and this year’s varsity and freshman team members. There will be three sessions, June 20-26, July 25-31, and August 1-7. These basketball camps on college are getting to be a big thing, and Lefty was an instructor at several camps last summer. It’s a good aid in recruiting both from the standpoint of public relations and from the fact that many of the top high school players attend. And the money doesn’t exactly make the instruction chores distasteful.

NOTES...

Athletic Director Tom Scott reports that in addition to adding Princeton to complete the Charlotte Invitational field, he has added Dartmouth for a game Dec. 18 in Johnston Gym.

Sailing Club spokesmen note that they are lined up for regattas at St. Petersburg, Charleston, Duke, and Old Dominion this spring and are members of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association, but they don't have any boats yet.

Davidson's golf team has finally lined up a home course for this year; they’ll be playing their matches at Carolina Country Club in Charlotte.

Fred Hetzel and Dick Snyder both made The Greensboro Daily News’ All-State team named this week. Others on the team are Billy Cunningham and Bob Lewis of UNC, Duke's Jack Marin and Bob Verga, Wake Forest's Bob Leonard, Larry Lakins of N. C State, Jesse Branson of Elon, and Barry Smith of High Point.

TERRY HOLLAND IN ACTION

“Goon” Returns To The Hardwood

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coach Harry Fogleman’s tennis team captured victories over The Citadel, 5-4, in matches Monday and Tuesday at Charleston, S. C., and the University of South Carolina, 9-0. Bill Council, playing number-one position, led the win over The Citadel by downing the Bulldogs’ ace William Poore, 7-5, 7-5. Sophomore Esmond Phelps trounced their number-two player, Perry Earle, 6-3, 6-2, while Bill Schutt staged a comeback but lost 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 to Jon Jennert in the number four singles. Peter Parrot took the fifth position, 6-2, 6-4, over Sandy Cox, and Geordie Mueller waltzed to an easy 6-0, 6-1 decision over Citadel's Denny Walker in the number-six singles. Dick Hurd, playing in the third position, lost 6-1, 6-3 to Roy Morgan and joined Phelps to drop their doubles match 6-4, 8-6. Sophomores Parrot and Mueller clinched the Wildcat victory by taking the final doubles match, 6-3, 2-6, 6-4.

In the romp over South Carolina, Fogleman’s fuzzballers won 102 out of 115 games played and didn't lose a set. Phelps played first-man with Council back at Davidson, and responded with a 6-2, 6-2 win over Kay Howard. Schutt overpowered the Gamecocks’ second man, Al Coy, 6-2, 6-3, and he combined with Jimmy Davis for a 6-0, 7-5 doubles triumph. Hurd, playing third, returned to his usual form to silence Henry Hardey 6-0, 6-0 and completed a perfect day by joining Phelps for a 6-0, 6-0 doubles victory over Cox and Howard. Parrot triumphed 6-2, 6-1 over Bob White, while Mueller and Davis shut out their respective foes, Gene Allen and Wayne Willis, 6-0, 6-0. Parrot and Mueller remained undefeated with a 6-1, 6-0 doubles win. Fogleman, “very pleased with the team’s showing,” has high hopes of a conference championship.

Davidson's baseballers dropped their season opener to Pfeiffer College by a close 2-1 margin Tuesday. Poor hitting and erratic defense, both due to lack of practice, were the main reasons for the loss, said baseball mentor Stevens. Said the Wildcat coach, “We did very poorly at the plate, and our defense looked sloppy, but this is because we haven't been able to spend much time on the field since practice started.” Both Falcon runs were unearned, as the Wildcats committed six errors while totaling only four hits. Stevens mentioned that Howard Bryan did “an excellent job on the mound for the ‘Cats, allowing only six hits in a losing cause.”

By CHUCK BYRD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Fred Hetzel’s Wildcats clash Tuesday night with the Big Four All-Stars led by Billy Cunningham in a Charlotte Coliseum game sponsored by Basketball Promotions Inc., which is made up of private businessmen in the Charlotte area. Hetzel will have teammates Barry Teague, Don Davidson, and Charlie Marcon in the lineup, along with a still spry Wildcat freshman coach, Terry Holland, who is yearning for another fling at the hardwood. Paul Briggs will play if his foot gets well. Also on the team will be Furman’s David Selvy and Les Heicher, a possible starter. IMAC star Buddy Dubose will round out the team.pitching duel with three Pfeiffer hurlers. Jim Hyder led the Wildcat offense, getting two hits and scoring the only run. Lance Taylor and Don Davidson accounted for Davidson's other base hits in the loss. The game was tied 1-1 until the sixth inning, when a close call at the plate gave the Falcons their one-run winning mark. Stevens moaned, “With a little more hitting, we could have won easily. The rest of the week will be spent working on hitting, with emphasis on batting against pitchers throwing stuff. We hope to correct our mistakes and even the score this Saturday.”

Nu’s Take Delts In Bball, But Sigs Sure Of First

The Sigma Nus dominated the past week’s IMAC basketball action by winning two and the Phi Delts by four. With only one week left in the IMAC basketball season, the Kappa Sigs have finished with a 12-0 record, and are thus the only undefeated team in the league. The Pikas lost to the Phi Gams, 52-42. The Fiji-Pika contest was closer than the score indicated. One of the Pika's top scorers in the game, Bob O'Kelly, suffered a busted lip early in the fourth quarter which put him out and allowed the Gams to go ahead for good. With a shortage of substitutes, the Pikas were unable to keep up and the Gams went on to win by 10 points. In the Indy-Sigma Nu game, Jim Fuller got 25 for the Indys as Arthur Clark and Bill Barnette scored all but six of the Nu's 82 points. Clark and Barnette starred again as the Nu's beat the Phi Delts. There are only six games remaining in this year’s schedule.

Davidson assistant coach Joe Hunt will coach the team. Cunningham’s team also boasts several stars. Besides the Kangaroo Kid, there will be N. C. State’s Larry Lakins who recently got 33 points against St. Joseph's; Wake Forest provides Richard Herring; North Carolina adds Ray Respass and Bill Brown; Duke sends the inimitable Hack Tison; the ubiquitous Denny Ferguson, and Brent Kitchen. Frank McGuire of USC will probably coach the team. The game shapes up as a heretofore unheard-of attraction in this area. In one way, it is a conference struggle between some of the best players in the Southern and Atlantic Coast Conferences. The prestige of the two is definitely on the line. In another way, it is a clash between Fred Hetzel and Billy Cunningham, the top players in their respective conferences. Hetzel finished with a 26-point scoring average with Cunningham one behind at 25 points a game. They both averaged close to 13 rebounds a game. Hetzel commented on the upcoming clash by saying, “I’ve been looking forward to playing against Billy Cunningham for the last four years. I also think we will have two well-balanced teams out there.”

Baseballers Boot First

The Wildcat nine will play Pfeiffer again at 2 p.m. tomorrow at Davidson. In still a third way, the game can be thought of as an all-star game featuring the best talent in the area. Each player will be trying to put on the best show possible, which should provide for first-class sports entertainment. As Hetzel said, the teams are well balanced. The Wildcats, having played together for four years, might have a slightly better defense. As far as rebounding is concerned, Terry Holland will really have to come through to help Hetzel and Davidson against the likes of Cunningham, Lakins, and Tison. Taylor Blackwell, Davidson publicity director, is handling the game as a “spare time venture.” “This game,” he said, “is an experiment to see if future games of this type might be played in Charlotte on an annual basis, Charlotte being the big basketball city that it is.” He also said that advance ticket sales have been good. Student tickets may be purchased for one dollar at The Hub.

Golfers Breeze By 3 In Dunes Club Match

Davidson's golfers swept a four-way match from Southern Conference opponents George Washington, Furman, and The Citadel, Monday while losing only one of the medal positions of the Dunes Club in Myrtle Beach. This is the second time in three years that Davidson has won this conference foursome. Doug McKeever tied for runner-up honors with The Citadel’s Bob Coleman, both scoring 76, while Bob Bowers of George Washington was the medalist of the day with the low score of 75. Golf mentor Dr. Tom Scott had nothing but praise for the “well-balanced scoring” of the team. Davidson’s top four scorers had a mere four strokes separating them. Bill Ross fired a 77, Champ Covington carded 78, sophomore Joe Jelks finished with a 79, and George Brewer and Mackey McClelland took a pair of 80's. Davidson emerged from the match with a 3-0 record and G. W. drew its first loss while placing second. The Citadel finished its 18 holes in third place while Furman failed to win a medal position. In sizing up the outlook for the rest of the season, Coach Scott forecasted, “We will be a top contender for the Southern Conference championship. It all depends on how strong V. P. I. is, but you can be sure that we will be tough.” Davidson will test V. P. I. April 5.

Tracksters Hold High Hopes For Good Year

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“Prospects are very good for a rather successful track season this year,” predicts Coach Heath Whittle. “We have a good chance to win all our dual meets—even the one with Wake Forest, which I regard as our strongest opponent—and to take a fourth or fifth place in the conference meet. Of course, it’s still a little early to make extensive predictions, though.” Whittle cites the balance of the Wildcat squad with its strength in every event as an important point and singled out several runners who “really ought to have a great year for us.” The coach mentions Ronnie Reese as the runner who may break the school 880-record this year; it has stood at 1:57.2 since Pete Ashcraft’s time in 1955. He points to seniors Tommy Heffner and Denny Phillips as strong milers and comments that John Barow, a senior; Andy Little, a junior; and Robert Dean, a sophomore; should provide “a strong field” in the two- and three-mile runs. “And then, of course, there’s Alan Turner, the Southern Conference Champion in the 100- and the 220-yard dashes with times of 9.7 and 21.3 seconds, respectively. This should be another great year for Alan. Davidson will also be depending on Jim Wallace, who's been doing a fine job in the discus, and David Brown, a utility man who can jump, vault, and run. In addition, sophomores Bill Kendrick (javelin), John Fagg (shot put), and Bill Randolph (shot put, discus) brighten the long-range outlook for the team.” Davidson's track mentor adds that the season opener with Lenoir Rhyne and High Point at Davidson tomorrow afternoon “should be an exciting contest (Field events begin at 2 and running events at 3). They'll be strong especially in their vaulters, but I think we can take them,” he grins.

ALAN TURNER SC Dash Champ

No “Side Lines” Here

There is much fashion to be seen within the portals of this establishment, the selection of which has been influenced by the preferences of gentlemen attending universities east and west, south and north. Each garment to be seen is correct in cut, fabric, proportion, texture, color, and craftsmanship.

Bush Wilson, Ltd.
DAVIDSON, N. C.