PAGE FIVE 'Cats To Test Tribe THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1965

Adams Tapes Pros For Charlotte Tilts
By BILL BRIGGS
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Leaning back against the fiberglass seats under the shade of the new press box, student trainer John Adams began recounting
his tales of acting as trainer for the NBA’s Philadelphia 76ers and Baltimore Bullets, Friday and Saturday.

“Paul Buck (manager of the Charlotte Coliseum) called Tom Couch last week,” Adams began, “and asked him to be trainer
for the Bullets and 76ers for the weekend. Couch couldn't do it, but he said he'd send in one of
his boys. He sent me.”

Adams scratched his head and laughed, “He didn’t know he would have gotten $80 for going. Boy, is he mad
now.”

The Boston Celtics and St. Louis Hawks, who brought their own trainers, lined up against the 76ers and Bullets, respectively,
in Friday's double-header. However, they both lost to Adams’ boys, and the second night's doubleheader pitted the two teams he
was training against each other in the winners’ bracket.

MIXED EMOTIONS

“I sort of had mixed emotions that second night,” Adams grinned. “So I sat on one bench part of the
time and the other the rest of the game. I told the fellows that I was giving very impartial training.”

As trainer, Adams’ main job was to tape ankles, and as he put it, “to look after anybody that got
shaken-up.” A little nervous at first, Adams said he finally got up his courage and just walked in the 76er
dressing room.

“I saw this fellow on the training table in there so I walked up to him, stuck out my hand,
and said, ‘My name is John Adams, I’m gonna be your trainer.’

“Then he stuck out his hand and said, ‘John, glad to meet you, my name is Wilt Chamberlain.’”

Adams was full of tales of what he called a “once in a lifetime experience.” He talked about the commercial
he and Lou “Honeycomb” Johnson jokingly decided to do for $500, for a foot powder company.

“Of course we were just kidding but the rest of the boys didn’t know it, and when ‘Honeycomb’ smiled (showing
his gold-starred tooth) and said he didn’t know about doing it, a couple of others in the dressing room said,
‘Man, if he won't do it, I will; I will.’”

JOHN ADAMS
Big Time Taper

Last spring at the Hetzel-Cunningham game in Charlotte, Adams met Billy Cunningham, the 76er rookie who starred at UNC last
year. Since Cunningham was sick Friday, Adams spent a good deal of time with him.

‘HI JOHN! HOW’RE YOU DOING’

“I saw him in the dressing room again before the game Friday night and spoke to him. He said, ‘Hi
John! How're you doing?’ I was really surprised he remembered my name.”

Adams was not the only Davidson student to come away from the pro games $80 richer. Jim Hyder kept score
and made the same thing.

“I don’t think Hyder got to talk to any of them,” Adams noted. “He told me Chamberlain came over and
asked him something about a foul.”

However, Adams did “talk to them,” all of them. He almost glowed as he bubbled over with excitement from his
experience.

“They were real good boys; funny. I got to talk to them all. We kidded and joked a lot, they
were just good fellows.”

Wealthier by $80 and a store of tales, Adams grabbed a box of tape and walked under Richardson Stadium’s bleachers
toward the Wildcat dressing room, and his regular customers, the football team.

Sigs, Betas Roll On As Taus Fall!

The Kappa Sigs held the spotlight in IMAC flickerball action for the umpteenth consecutive time this week and kept their
lead in the loop’s standings with a 6-0 record. Meanwhile, the Betas became the only other undefeated team by virtue
of the ATO’s loss to the Sigma Chis in the week’s headliner on Monday.

The Sigs, not nearly so impressive as in days of old, still had more than enough punch to wallop the
Pikas Wednesday. Credit for victory actually should go to the Kappa Sig defensive unit, as it was their runbacks of
intercepted passes that turned the game from a display of lackadaisical sloppiness to a runaway. The Pikas would undoubtedly have
done better if they had spent as much energy playing as they did in complaining about the less than perfect
officiating.

The Beta team, rumored to be a contender this year, showed little class as they bested the cellar-dwelling Phi Gams
39-34 on Monday. The game was in doubt until the final ten seconds when safety Jim Timmons intercepted a Gam
pass to secure the victory. Noted tailback Jack Sherrill, “We really were bad.” Dan Sweet and David King played outstanding
for the Phi Gams.

There was less doubt over the opponents, the Independents, were never even in the game. As a matter of fact,
there wasn’t any game, as the Gamma Delts could produce only two players and had to forfeit. They did manage
to field a team Monday, but that wasn't enough; the KA’s dropped them 20-0.

Sigma Chi's seven, which is a better team than its record implies, pulled out another close one Monday, over the
ATO's. With the score tied at 13 all and only 18 seconds remaining in the game, the Taus started a
play that propelled the ball to defender Basil Hicks. The Chis flickered it down the field and into the zone,
and with that the ATO’s succumbed. But that wasn't enough, Geordie Mueller and brother Machis took on the Sigma Nus
yesterday. When it was all over, the score was 43-6 in favor of—well, it wasn't the Sigma Nus. Asked about
Nu flickerball fortunes, Edgar McFarland spat out a half dozen epithets and then remarked enthusiastically,

(Photo by Johnson)
JOHN ADAMS TAPES UNIDENTIFIED BULLET ANKLE
Davidsonian Prepares Baltimore Pro For Action

By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The home folks will have another chance to view the all-but-unbelievable Wildcats, as they return to action here tomorrow against
William and Mary, their third consecutive Southern Conference opponent, after a week’s layoff.

Coach Homer Smith described the Indians as “by far the best team we've played. They are in a different class
from the teams we've played before. We'll be moving up a notch, and we are very pleased to do so.
We want to keep stretching ourselves.”

William and Mary’s 1-3 record is about as deceiving as the serpent in the garden of Eden. They have lost
to VPI (by two points), West Virginia, and Navy, while defeating a strong V.M.I. team, 32-21. Sophomore quarterbacks Dan Darragh
and Mike Madden comprise a heretofore unstoppable 1-2 punch. Even Navy's vaunted defense, which yielded only 86

Hindsley Hacks Foe Backs
By TOMMY COX
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Say Pack Hindsley and snarling wolves appear in your mind. Then say in the same breath, “‘container’ with a big
‘87’ on his back throws a halfback for a 10 yard loss with a clothes-line tackle.” Pack Hindsley plays football.

“I like to play. The competition is mentally good for a person, and football gives me an advantage — to
get excited in one direction. Unless you've singled out one thing in your life to work and try to be
the best at, you've lost an opportunity."

Before a game Pack's stomach will hold only Nutriment. He mentally keys himself by concentrating only on that game so
that nothing else is important. “The job must be done. It's the most important thing you can be doing at
that time. There's nothing more important. That’s the way football is played.”

Davidson has surprised a lot of people this year with the brand of football they've played. The ‘Cats are ravenous
and seething, and who expected it — except Homer Smith and his team? Hindsley typifies the feeling, “A team must
beat us physically to win. They've got to earn the yardage they get. We've won this year because we haven't
let them and because we take advantage of their mistakes. Everybody is performing at the position he asked to play,
and they've done it efficiently.”

Hindsley began talking about the Davidson team. “Our greatest weakness is the age-old lack of depth, but we've made up
for it. We've won on hard work and the fact that each person has defeated his opponent physically. We don’t
have as much tal

New Press Facility Opens Tomorrow

Davidson's new press box nears completion as Saturday will mark the opening of the press and scouting facilities after nearly
two months' work.The cost of the ultra-modern steel and wood structure is included in a $50,000 challenge grant from the
Richardson Foundation, who also provided the money for the stadium. The money as given is to be used to improve
the field and stadium. Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director, noted such improvements to the stands and other spectator facilities as
new toilets, fiberglass seats, and improved parking area. For the football team, both varsity and freshman, there are remodeled dressing
rooms. Also from the grant, Davidson will get a new baseball field, and in the future a new visiting-team dressing
room (to be located under the East Stands) together with a visiting team dormitory. The facilities in the heated pressbox
include sliding glass windows, space for both radio and television, and space for both the home and visiting teams to
get an aerial view of the game. Underneath the pressbox will be the President's box which will not be finished
for the William and Mary game. Of it, Dr. Scott said, “It will be as fine a one as you
will find anywhere in the country.”

"We're looking forward to next year when our team gets back from Europe.” Meanwhile, the Taus didn’t roll over and
play dead. They rolled over the KA’s, who have definitely seen better days, by a 22-0 score yesterday. Dave Townsend
and Geoff Birkhead shone for ATO. The KA’s had pretty jerseys. The Phi Delts, who are high in the standings
now but still face the rough part of their schedule, played the Sig Eps Wednesday. They won 25-13 in a
boring game. The SAE’s saw their only action of the week in a Wednesday encounter with the Pi Kapps. Everyone
(for the E's, that is) got into the scoring act as they won 46-18. Paul Brown allowed that he and
his brethren were rather relaxed for this one and as a result were loose and had good control of the
ball. Mike Booe continued to excel at tailback for the SAE's. Last Friday's game saw the Pikas beat the Sig
Eps 39-7, and the Sigma Nus top the Pi Kapps.

“To me, Jerry Blackstock has performed brilliantly on offense. His attitude is infectious to the whole team. Dick Short and
Tupper Morehead are vital to our defense. George Solley has as much desire as anybody — if he weighed 220
pounds, he'd be the best in the country. Of course, you can't leave out Steve Smith and Billy Taylor on
offense. Both are tremendous ballplayers.” Last season Pack played both offense and defense, but he says that this year he
doesn’t believe he could go both ways. “I miss offense, but I'd rather play defense. The game's changed too much
to play both ways.” Hindsley is a smart but aggressive defender. Many times a game Hindsley pushes off two or
three blockers to make the tackle. But, he adds, “Our team defense allows two or three players on the ball
carrier each play.” Tomorrow the ‘Cats meet William and Mary. “They’ve played West Virginia, Navy, and George Washington,” Hindsley relates,
“who are better competition than we've seen this year. So far our record doesn’t mean that much. I believe there’s
been absolutely no loss of momentum since our last game (two weeks ago). There's been a gain. Our tongues have
still dragged around and it's been really inspiring to watch the coaches do more than just sit and coach. They
participate.” A guy named Dunkel said the other day that the ‘Cats will be defeated. To Pack Hindsley and the
rest of the team, no scientific system can possibly figure savvy, physical courage, and an enigma called desire.

In Freshman action on Tuesday, Cannon A defeated Cannon B by a 19-12 margin. David Hubbard, Tom Allison, and Scott
Cutting were prominent in their team's victory, while captain Joe Norton and Tom Scoville were the mainstays of the boys
from the third and fourth floors. East A, led by tailback Steve Faulk and defensive whizzes Al Varner and Chuck
Rankin, toppled the Watts squad 31-6 in a one-sided game.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

UNOFFICIAL FLICKERBALL STANDINGS
Kappa Sig 6-0
Beta 3-0
ATO 4-1
Phi Delt 4-1
Sigma Chi 3-2
Sig Ep 3-2
SAE 3-3
Pika 3-3
KA 1-3
Ind. 1-4
Pi Kapp 1-4
Sigma Nu 1-4
Phi Gam 0-5

Phi Delta Theta won the IMAC total point championship for the ninth straight time last year according to the figures
recently released by IMAC President Tommy Hunter. The Phi Delts won titles in swimming, volleyball, track, and tennis, and tied
for the crown in handball on the way to retiring their third straight trophy. Second in the standings were the
Kappa Sigs, who opened last year with undefeated records in flickerball and basketball and then faded.

FINAL 1964-65 IMAC STANDINGS
Phi Delt 989
Kappa Sig 836
Sigma Chi 792
SAE 789
Phi Gam 755
ATO 694
Beta 646
Pika 633
Sigma Nu 592
Ind. 588
Sig Ep 582
KA 577
Pi Kapp 469

In the last meeting between the two teams, William and Mary walked off to a 34-5 victory but in the
overall series, the Indians have only a 4-3-4 advantage. In their last meeting at Richardson Field (1962) the ‘Cats tied
William and Mary 7-7, although they were rated as a more than three touchdown underdog. Coach Smith said, “Although the
week layoff is something we do not particularly want, it will not be a factor in tomorrow's game." Should the
Wildcats win this one, it would be the first time a Davidson football team has won three conference games in
a season. The 14-0 victory over the Citadel two weeks ago evened the squad with the 1958 team, who beat
the Citadel and William and Mary. V.M.I. and George Washington are the other conference opponents this year.

GREG COX (22) SNAGS TD TOSS
(Photo by Johnson)

Freshman Scores In ‘Kittens’ Romp Over CMA
Freshmen Whack Prepsters, 21-12
Led by Quarterback Rick Simonson and fullback Mike Thornton, the 'Cats freshmen mangled Carolina Military Academy of Maxton 21-12 here
last Friday to even up their record at 1-1. Offense was the name of the game, as each team chalked
up well over two hundred yards in total rushing. CMA tallied 251 yards, while the baby Cats rolled up 372
yards. CMA led off the scoring with a one-yard plunge by fullback Berney Bundy early in the first quarter. Later
that quarter the scrappy freshmen mounted a ground attack. Simonson capped the drive with a dive for paydirt. Thornton's extra
point kick gave the ‘Kittens the lead. The second quarter saw Simonson pass nine yards to end Greg Cox for
the second Davidson TD. However, in the next quarter CMA halfback Rick DeLorme scampered 82 yards through the ‘Kitten defense
to make the score a close 14-12. But the scrappy freshmen rolled back the toy soldiers and scored on a
16-yard gallop by Thornton to clinch the victory. Coach Fagg cited several freshmen for outstanding play. “Simonson, Thornton, and Cox
did a fine job on offense. Those boys have a lot of potential," he noted. “Thornton racked up 170 yards
rushing. On our defensive platoon, we saw some fine play from Louis Homer, Bill Richmond, Eddie Rice, Hal Young, and
Covey Carter.”

Campus revolution! Slacks that never need ironing—never! Galey and Lord permanent press fabrics of polyester and cotton. Stay neat—however washed!
Galey & Lord
Broadway, N.Y. 18
A Division of Burlington Industries.
