JUNIORS ABROAD REPORT FROM FRANCE (See Page Three)

VOL. LIV.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1965

Georgian Acclaims New South

Representative Charles Weltner of the Fifth District of Georgia will arrive on campus Sunday night for a two-day visit. He will lead a discussion on politics in general after Vespers and will follow the discussion with his address in chapel on Monday morning. Weltner has not yet announced a topic, but stated that he may use the speech that he delivered last Thursday at Harvard University. He also plans to visit several political science classes on Monday. Accompanying Weltner will be his administrative assistant, Wyche Fowler, who was a member of the class of 1962 at Davidson.

Congressman Weltner is becoming the spearhead for the so-called “new Southern moderate progressivism” and a symbol of the “changing climate” of Southern politics. During his first term in Congress, Weltner became the only “Deep South” representative to vote for the final passage of the civil rights bill. Thus, his political career and his second term were imperiled in the 1964 election, but he was saved by Atlanta's Negro voters, who gave him more than 90 percent of their vote, considerably more than his 19,000 margin of victory.

Weltner was graduated from Oglethorpe University and received his LLB from Columbia University, before settling down to an Atlanta practice. Weltner spoke at the Democratic convention of 1964, where the Young Citizens for Johnson—2,000 of them—organized the first demonstration of the Convention in his honor. He has just been appointed to the House Un-American Activities Committee, where he is urging the investigation of the Ku Klux Klan. On the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Ku Klux Klan, he asked, “How long will we permit faceless men, under cover of robes and darkness, to imperil the liberties of our people?”

Time magazine reports in its next issue: “Now Weltner has an audience far beyond his district—at Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Wellesley, the University of Michigan, and wherever else academic audiences crave fellowship.”

By ROSS CORNWELL

Davidson’s Young Republicans Squabble On Speaker-Ban Law

Davidson’s Young Republicans after considerable in-fighting passed a resolution in support of the now infamous “Speaker Ban” law. A possible power struggle within the club between “conservative” and “moderate” elements over this law simply failed to materialize, as the “moderate” faction, led by club president Walter Edgar, was able to dominate the proceedings.

In a political atmosphere of evident intrigue and mounting tension, guest speaker for the evening, senior Jim Waldron, presented a brief talk on “The Gag Law.” His announced intention was to present an argument against the resolution passed by the North Carolina YRC in support of the “Speaker Ban” law. Waldron, from Decatur, Ga., is a member of the student committee that is working with the local AAUP against the “Gag” law. Basing his considerations on federal and Supreme Court precedence, Waldron stated that the law represents a flagrant violation of their fundamental right to freedom of speech, as well as to the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, which guarantees “freedom from self-incrimination and from persecution for the exercise of that right.” The law, Waldron added, is also unconstitutional because of its vagueness. For instance, the speaker ban denies facilities at state-supported educational institutions to “a known member of the Communist Party” or to anyone having “Communist or subversive activities or connections for speaking purposes.” Waldron asked, “What are ‘speaking purposes?’ Does this mean that an orchestra from Communist Russia can perform at the University of North Carolina? Would a violation of the law occur if the conductor of such a group ‘spoke’ his thanks to the audience? Also, what constitutes ‘Communist connections?’ Is subscribing to a Communist magazine such a connection?”

In addition to the apparent unconstitutionality and vagueness of the law, it was further argued that such legislation restricts academic and intellectual development and thus the progress of North Carolina by prohibiting students from direct confrontation with ideas of Communism, and thus from free consideration and discourse. At the conclusion of the talk, elements in the group prepared to give their views on the adoption of a resolution opposing the recent stand by the state YRC convention expressing support of the “Speaker Ban” law. The convention action was in direct opposition to the Collegiate Council of the YR's which had voiced earlier opposition to the law. The “moderate” wing introduced a resolution calling for a revocation or drastic modification of the “Speaker Ban Law” because of its vagueness and its toxic effect on intellectual freedom. Some confusion resulted when Joe Beard, a delegate to the convention held in Charlotte last weekend, made an unsuccessful attempt to introduce before the group an alternate proposal which would contain essentially the same provisions as the resolution supported by the “moderates.”

Factional cogs were set in motion as notes were passed between members, and it became apparent that the “Beardian” group was about to make its bid for a minor coup d‘etat. Edgar, who was presiding, countered this move by referring Beard to the by-laws of the local organization which states that “any resolution concerning political action must be submitted to and approved by the Legislation Committee before presentation to the group in meeting.” Asked if he had followed this procedure, Beard replied pithily, “I have not.” At this admission, Edgar declared Beard out of order and was about to move swiftly to other business when the latter stood and appealed to the chair to be allowed to present his resolution before the group. The appeal was denied by the chair. A vote—the crucial ballot of the evening—was called for. The chairman was upheld in his ruling. Following this victory over the conservative wing, the “moderates” passed their own resolution by the overwhelming majority of 18 to 2. Beard followed up with the final parliamentary maneuver of the evening by moving to have the resolution held for reconsideration until the next meeting, when it must again be voted on if he is present. However, yesterday Beard reportedly had agreed not to attend the next meeting, a move...

MARTHA AND THE VANDELLAS

A ‘Heat Wave’ In Chambers Basement Tonight

For Muddy Waters and the Vandellas at an informal concert tonight and Julie London at a formal dance tomorrow night highlight the attractions for Midwinters 1965. This package comes wrapped at least in the usual soggy Midwinters weather but with strong spirits equal to the occasion. Tonight’s IFC concert begins at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium, and continues with the dance in the basement dining hall of Chambers, lasting until 11:30. The IFC formal dance Saturday night presents Julie London at the Cotswold Mall in Charlotte, beginning at 8:30 and ending at 12 midnight. Miss London will make four twenty-minute appearances with Loomis McGlohon providing music interspersed between. Each Fraternity has planned...by the Plat-toward reconciliation. | Republicans Club "tions And Vandellas, Julie Winters Blast ~ Campus Braces Self Weekend

Two parties for the weekend, and several have planned more than that in a marathon fashion. The schedule of Fraternity parties for the weekend is as follows: The ATO's Friday night Majors, Saturday night — El Roccos; the Betas, Friday night — Delacardos, Saturday afternoon — Van Dales, Saturday night Jazz Trio; the KA’s Friday night B. S. Plair, Saturday afternoon Fabulous Five, Saturday night Ambassadors. Phi Delts, Saturday night HOOPSTERS HIT SPIDERS TOMORROW The King Bees; Phi Gams, Friday night Imperials, Saturday night Delmonicos; Pikas, Friday night Delacardos, Saturday night Del Hearts; Pi Kappa Phis, Friday night Delacardos, Saturday night SAE's, Friday night Delacardos with the Betas, Saturday night — Dale and the Del Hearts; Sigma Chis, Friday night — Ascots, Saturday night — Fabulous Five; Sigma Nus, Friday night Rhythmakers, Saturday night Scepters; and Sig Eps, Saturday night Spontanes.

Clyde Stacks, manager of the college laundry observed that, as usual, there was a great increase in laundry before dance weekends, but that Midwinters was especially bad since the dirty, muddy clothing from Greek Week has already piled up. He observed also that in (continued on page six)

Local GOP Convention By JOE Dale and the Kappa Phis, Delacardos; Davidsonian Staff Writer

Strong grapes in Charlotte. Delegates Walter Edgar, Jim Downey, Joe Beard, Don McKinnon, and Sam Bradley engaged in numerous personal and political disputes, the effects of which will probably dominate the thoughts and actions of the Davidson YRC for weeks to come. Trouble arose when the Credentials Committee introduced a motion to refuse seats to the Charlotte College delegation because of a discrepancy in membership rolls. YRC President Edgar's attempt to counteract the proposal drew immediate disagreement on the part of Beard. The delegates, by vote of the club, were operating under the unit rule, whereby all five votes allotted to the club were to be cast in favor of the majority. A 3-2 decision resulted in favor of Edgar’s proposal, which eventually was defeated 54-20. Beard was elected regional liaison officer, but not without several heated arguments. Hal Clark, president of Guilford College's delegation, also ran for the position and gained the active support of Edgar and Downey. Edgar remarked that his action resulted in sharp differences of opinion, but added, “I supported Hal Clark because I felt that his political views were more in line with those of the Davidson Club than were those of Joe Beard.” Edgar noted that further discord came to the delegation’s caucus when Beard made a motion that Edgar be ousted as president of the delegation. This motion was defeated by a vote of 3-2, but the rift was just beginning. The prime point of dispute arose from the constitutional amendment proposed to allow regional liaison officers to be elected by the convention as a whole rather than by regional caucuses. Edgar opposed the amendment, but the delegation voted 3-2 in favor of it, at (Continued on Page Six)

AAUP Accepts Student By BOB VANCE Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student Speaker-Ban received the commendation of the American Association of University Professors Committee this week. The AAUP Committee commended the concern, commitment, and initiative shown by the Davidson College Young Republicans’ Club when the club passed a resolution Wednesday night expressing dissatisfaction with the State YRC's support of the “Speaker-Ban” law, and advocating the repeal or modification of the law. Presented to the club by Student Speaker-Ban Committee member Roland Eidson, the resolution was the first open support given the Committee by a campus organization. At the present time, the Student Committee is working on a resolution opposing the “Speaker-Ban” law, to be presented to the State Student Legislature next week. Members of the Committee preparing the resolution are Jim Waldron, Calvin Zon, Jack Martens, and John Hutcheson. Engaged in legal research concerning possible avenues of opposition to the law on the basis of federal constitutional law are committee members Ronnie Ayers, John Hutcheson, and Jim Waldron. In the future, the Committee hopes to secure persons in other North Carolina colleges to act as spokesmen in opposing the “Speaker Ban.” Other projected action includes the circulation of anti-Speaker-Ban petitions in schools around the state, and the encouragement of campus newspapers to take editorial stands concerning the law. The DAVIDSONIAN took such a stand last week.

‘SOMETHING TO BE LIVED WITH’ By BOB STRAUSER Davidsonian Feature Editor

That a fraternity housemother is a hopeless face and a reincarnated with a smiling inner drive to expiate the burden of sin from another life. The theological basis for such a theory may be weak, but there is no denying the trials of being “Mother” to a roomful of teenage male egos. Consider, for example, the high point of a Davidson year—the dance weekend. Mrs. R. A. Grimes, Beta housemother, received the DAVIDSONIAN’s informal inquiry with typical candor, “Dance weekend is just something to adjust to, I suppose. Actually though, I'm not terribly disturbed by the whole thing—I have time to prepare.” Miss Johnsie Shelton, housemother to the Pi Kapps for 17 years, took a philosophical approach to the approaching weekend. Formerly, Miss Shelton kept as many as 20 dates at one time—and noted that she “saw less of them now” than she used to. She further lamented the lack of storage space necessary for advance planning but added, “Roses have thorns.” She continued, “Shut your eyes, your nose, your mouth, your ears; try to think of something you can do; and things will work out. Thank the good Lord for fortitude.” The common lament noted the tendency of those “lovely little girls” to leave the house in somewhat of a mess. “But just hide your perfume and hair spray,” said one housemother, “... ‘cause you know it’s coming.” At the PIKA house, Mrs. Ruth Mims went against the general complaint and disclaimed any annoyance at the dressing room situation. She continued, “I like to get to bed early and get up early but one weekend doesn’t bother me. I get plenty of sleep at all other times.” Mrs. Mims was asked further if she had noted any changes in the nature of the weekends in her ten years on the court. “Well, I don’t see the signs of really hard partying as I used to; few get really sick anymore.” At the SAE house, Mrs. Lucy Short is going through her tenth year of weekends also. Like Mrs. Mims she considers the whole affair “part of my job,” something neither loved nor hated—“something to be lived with.” Perhaps the most refreshing remark in THE DAVIDSONIAN’s inquiry came from Mrs. Grimes. She noted that she would not be terribly disturbed if there were no weekends and the able student reporter helpfully inserted, “Oh, my folks came from typical candor, “I've had to adjust...”