FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1965 By JOHNNY CLARK Davidsonian Sports Editor

END OF AN ERA

I remember the summer before my freshman year. People at home would ask where I was going to school and
I'd tell them Davidson. Reactions varied from, “Now where is that?” to “Going to be a preacher, eh?” to “Must
have pretty good grades to be going there” to “oh.” It was a little different going home this year. Little
kids 10 years old down at the drug store could give the height and scoring average of every Wildcat. Everybody
knows where Davidson is now.

Pride is nice to have. It’s always been easy to be proud of going to Davidson when around people who
know about and appreciate Davidson’s academic standards. But it’s nice to have pride too when the filling station attendant, the
kids at the drug store, the summer friends from Maine or Oregon know you're from Davidson. It’s nice to have
pride when you read about Davidson in Sports Illustrated, in the preseason basketball magazines, in the wire service stories.

It’s nice to feel school spirit, trite as it sounds, and this unifying spirit is almost nonexistent apart from basketball.
This new pride and spirit was made possible when Lefty Driesell recruited in the winter of 1961 five men who
have formed a nucleus for Davidson's 3-year era of basketball greatness. Maybe other teams will reach similar heights, but theirs
will be a new era. Others deserve credit for Davidson’s success, but the spotlight now is on those whose departure
marks the end of an era.

Fred Hetzel will be gone, the All-Everything whose honors have come so fast and furiously this year that no one
really knows all of them. The NBA's, UPI’s, Sporting News, and AP’s All-America first teams, undoubtedly Player-of-the-Year in the Southern
Conference for the third straight year, school record holder in total points scored, highest scoring average, most rebounds, and practically
every record in the college’s books. Always giving credit to his teammates, Hetzel has done more for Davidson while still
an undergraduate than anyone in the college’s history.

Barry Teague, “the little general” of the Wildcats, leaves with Hetzel. Sometimes marked by opposing teams as the weak link
of the ’Cats’ scoring, his outside shooting on collapsing defenses proved otherwise. His phenomenal play-making and clutch free throws made
the difference in many games. But Teague’s value was not in his scoring, but in Davidson's desire and determination he
seemed to personify in his rugged defensive play, his agile ball handling, and his floor leadership.

Don Davidson never failed to provide the excitement and action that made him the most interesting player. His brand of
twisting, fighting, driving, grabbing basketball justified the countless roars of approval he drew from dazzled fans. More than once a
rebound, or steal turned the tide of defeats to victory and victories to runaways.

Charlie Marcon, number-six man for two years, stepped into a starting role with hardly a noticeable bump. His high arching
jumping shot, his sudden “stop and shoot”; his unbelievable jumping ability made him an ever-present threat to opponents as a
scorer and rebounder. Excited by success, his scoring often came fast and in intermittent bursts of 6 or 8 points.

Paul Briggs, who advanced from tenth man on the team his sophomore year to Lefty's top substitute this year, provided
the reserve strength without which the ‘Cats’ 23-game win streak could hardly have lasted. In the Charlotte Invitational and against
NYU while Don Davidson was out, against Furman when Hetzel fouled out, or whenever a starter had too many fouls
too early, his ability to fill in when needed often made the difference. If it were not for his broken
foot, perhaps he could have been the difference last week.

Hetzel, Teague, Davidson, Marcon, Briggs — these champions in their last three years here have provided Davidson with innumerable thrills
and excitement. But more than that they have given us a pride and a spirit that all the library books
and high college board and graduate record scores could never produce.

I generally don’t go in much for writing this sentimental-type crap, but these guys deserve more than my cynicism. I
have to go along with Lefty—they’re still champs.

Speaking of people eating their words . . . pass the salt.

Davidson's rifle team carries a 6-7 season record to Fort Lee, Va. tomorrow for the Southern Conference meet. Commented Sgt.
Henry D. Eaves, rifle team coach, “We've done well so far this season, especially since we have a team composed
of five sophomores out of six riflemen. Our record is fair but I expect that VPI, West Virginia, VMI, and
Citadel will be the dominating teams in the event.”

Following the conference contest, the shooters will fire in the March 13 N. C. State Invitational Tournament, which includes teams
(generally Air Force, Army, or Navy-ROTC teams) from N. C. State, UNC, Wake Forest, N. C. A & T College,
and Davidson. “Davidson might stand a chance of winning that meet," said Eaves, “but we'll have to work pretty hard
to do it." Eaves singled out Davidson's Jim Kopp, a junior, as a consistent team member and mentioned sophomores Wes
Bailey, James Clark, Walter Eastes, Ed Maxwell, and Will Norman, all of whom will be making the trip to Fort
Lee, as valuable marksmen.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Photo by Kennedy)

END OF AN ERA “From Culls To Kings in Three Years”

W.Va. Kills ‘Cats Hopes, But Memories Survive

By BILL BRIGGS Assistant Sports Editor

A bevy of obnoxious fans, a blaring bugle, a bushy-faced “mountaineer,” a handful of sharp cheerleaders, and an inexplicable enthusiasm
reflected by loud confidence armed West Virginia for their unbelievable, deadly coup. With 10:33 left in the game, the Mountaineers
had opened up a 60-47 lead, shooting like they were throwing peas into a washbucket. West Virginia scored every time
it touched the ball in the first seven minutes of the second half. But a revitalized defense, led by junior
Dick Snyder's master-guarding of “Boney” Bob Camp, and a newly poised offense leaning heavily on All-American Fred Hetzel fought back
like the team that had won 23 straight ball games and was ranked fifth in the nation. The impossible comeback
was made: the score was tied 68-68 with 47 seconds left. The rest is well known. The handwriting had been
written on the wall then, and since then it has been written in the minds of every follower of Davidson
basketball.

Tuesday, December 2, it all started. Slowly Wake Forest fell 95-88. The season had begun amid high hope and excitement,
usually strangers to Davidson athletics. The momentum that the Wake game had started was abruptly halted, the next Saturday at
Philadelphia's Palestra. St. Joe's jolted the nation, provided Sports Illustrated with its “Upset of the Week”, and overran a squad
of seniors that played surprisingly like shaky sophomores.

St. Joe hurt, but after the barbs of defeat had been pulled out of the ‘Cats’ padded paws, the shakiness
left and Davidson found itself. For 23 straight games a handful of Davidson gentlemen made the nation sit up and
take notice by being something less than gentle. They were not always overpowering, but they won. And Ohio State, Virginia,
Alabama, Ohio and NYU can well attest that they did win, so can West Virginia—twice, by 9 and 23 points.

As the streak increased the typical Davidson man began to take winning for granted. He casually yawned off the times
the ‘Cats stumbled—like at Furman, at VMI, against the Citadel—because they still won. But any yawning that came from the
followers of Davidson basketball was only surface boredom. Not many of the yawners would have traded the pride that winning
brought for the excitement of losing a few.

A season should not be judged by one game, and not many will look back on Davidson’s 1964-65 basketballers as
anything less than Southern Conference champions. Maybe they were not the post-season tournament winner, but few will deny they were
the champions.

This season held a special significance for Davidson fans. The men who had brought big-time basketball to the sleepy little
town of Davidson would be gone after this. Now they are gone, this season has passed. The locker rooms are
quiet; the gym is empty, and the white jerseys, with black and red numerals have been hung up again. But
this team will never be forgotten. Its seniors, Fred Hetzel, Barry Teague, Don Davidson, Charlie Marcon, and Paul Briggs, the
men who have led basketball's alliance with “The Liberal Education” have won places in the minds and hearts of every
fan who has followed them.

As long as future Davidson men congregate, as long as one Davidson alumnus is around, whenever the conversation drags, somebody's
voice will be heard... “I remember them. There was a basketball team. At times the best ever, the very best.
They were great. It’s just a damn shame. . .”

Long after the colored newsprint picture of Hetzel and Driesell comes down from the wall behind Hattie’s bar, people will
remember and talk basketball as it was then. Next year Davidson will be good, but no team will ever capture
the imagination and hearts of Davidson like this one has. None will ever turn a cull to king, a doormat
to a companion. Thanks to the men who played their hearts out for us these past three years no one
will have to.

By TOM COOK Davidson Sports Writer

Their college basketball careers are over. Looking ahead, what are their future plans? Looking back, what was their greatest thrill?
The five seniors, Fred Hetzel, Don Davidson, Barry Teague, Charlie Marcon and Paul Briggs, each have their own personal accomplishments
and have their future plans fairly well pinned.down. With no less than four possible areas of activities next year, Fred
Hetzel is waiting to see which National Basketball Association team will draft him and what their offer will be. Hetzel
commented, “It would certainly be a challenge to me to play up there, but I want to make something out
of it." Other fields of endeavor Hetzel noted were several business opportunities in Charlotte, graduate school around Washington, and two
possibilities of playing basketball either in Italy or at Madrid, Spain. He firmly announced, “I am not going to coach.
I don’t see how they can just sit there all the time.” On his greatest thrills while at Davidson, Hetzel
recalled the Charlotte Coliseum victory over Duke in 1962, but noted, “From a selfish viewpoint, being chosen to the All-American
teams has been my greatest thrill because I had always dreamed of making All-American.” Looking back, Hetzel summed up, “If
I had to do it again, I would definitely go to Davidson College. To me, there is no better place
to play basketball in North Carolina than at Davidson and at Charlotte. Lefty accomplished almost everything he said he would
when I came here, and the student body has been just great to us. We did everything he wanted to
except the obvious—win the Southern Conference and go to the NCAA. But that is the way things go."

The University of Pennsylvania Medical School is Don Davidson’s next stop. After med school and interning, he will enter the
Army Medical Corps as a captain. Thinking back over his career, Davidson commented, “My greatest thrill was our winning streak
this year because we were winning. We always had the (Southern Conference) championship in mind and won it twice during
the season, but lost it in the tournaments. I would have liked to play Duke and St. Joseph's again and
some of those other good teams. That's one of the reasons why losing the tournament hurt.” On his four years
at Davidson, “Davidson-the-player” reflected, “Everything was fulfilled for me here. We had a real good record every year, I got
a good pre-med education, got into med school, and I met a lot of fine people. Everything worked out real
well.”

Baseball will be Barry Teague’s next endeavor. The lefthanded hurler will return to Coach Tom Stevens’ team to bolster the
pitching department. After graduation, Teague will join the Intelligence division of the Army. “My greatest thrill,” pondered Teague, “well I
don't know. There have been so many: Ohio State in my junior year, NYU, West Virginia up there, and being
runner-ups in the Southern Conference my sophomore year because we weren't supposed to finish that high—were all big thrills.”

Charlie Marcon, the 6-3 guard from Bethlehem, Pa., will enter the Artillery branch of the Army through the ROTC program.
He plans to work in Pennsylvania before going in. Recalling his freshman year, Marcon reminisced, “We knew we had a
good team when we first came to Davidson, and I guess we did most of the things we wanted to
do, except win the Southern Conference.” Marcon chose the Madison Square Garden defeat of NYU as his greatest thrill. “The
Ohio State game meant more because I took a greater part in it.”

Paul Briggs also faces the Army, but hopes to work for about six months before going in. A sociology major,
Briggs noted, “I want to go into social work around here in Charlotte or Greensboro. I also want to play
baseball this spring if my foot heals in time.” The Reidsville senior mulled, “I came to Davidson because of the
school, not just for basketball. Basketball was great, but I was more interested in the other.” His greatest thrill? Briggs
settled on the Charlotte Invitational Tournament last December because “we won and I got to take a big part in
those wins.”

PAGE FIVE

Baseball Here Again: “Cats Be Spring is just around the corner, and with spring the thoughts of every young man
at Davidson turn to—baseball of course. After one day of practice, Coach Tom Stevens enthusiastically previewed the coming season by
bluntly stating, “We are hurting.” He pointed to a late start, bad weather, the inability of the basketball players to
practice, and the loss of capable players at key positions. The hardballers take on strong Pfeiffer on March 16 to
begin their 30-game schedule, which includes Clemson, UNC, West Virginia, Furman, and East Carolina. Stevens hopes this year's squad can
equal or better the impressive record set by last year's team, which placed third in the conference with a 9-5
record and finished the season with a 9-game winning streak against both conference and non-conference foes. This was especially significant
since Davidson does not subsidize baseball.

Although the outfield and second-base positions are strong, the infield was weakened by graduation and most of the pitchers are
not in shape yet. Captain Don Davidson, slugger Dick Snyder, and letterman Lance Walker form a dependable outfield. Jim Hyder,
outstanding second-baseman, is the only experienced infielder returning. Graduation took All-Conference first baseman Rick Smyre, third-baseman Tommy Whitley, and catcher
Eddie Earle. Shortstop Steve Heckard is ineligible because he has signed a professional football contract and first-baseman Charlie Marcon is
not out for the team. Prospects for first base include Tony McNay, who didn’t play last year; Paul Briggs, who
is still plagued by a broken foot; and Sonny Graves, who is fat. Tommy Hunter and John Little show promise
at shortstop and third base while Jim Terry will probably handle the catching. Howard Bryan heads the pitching staff. Barry
Teague and left-handers Dave Johnson and Ronny Rudolph have experience and could form an excellent pitching crew. Although Paul Briggs
hurt his arm last year, he may be used in relief. Sophomores Gene Bennet, Buddy Durham, and Charles Elliot were
the top moundsmen on the freshman squad and are expected to pitch frequently for the varsity. Other outstanding sophomores are
outfielder Ed Armfield, infielder Jake Jacobsen, catcher Joe Gaddy, and Claude Owen who is out with a broken foot. Stevens
feels that, “If we can find a shortstop, a third-baseman, and a reserve catcher, we will be much stronger.” He
urges anyone interested in playing to come out for the team.

Cagers Close Season
By TUCKER LAXTON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

A last-ditch effort to get Davidson an at-large bid to play in the NCAA Midwest Regionals was thwarted as the
berth went to Notre Dame (14-11) leaving the ‘Cats out of the post-season tournaments again this year. Davidson could have
easily received a bid to play in the National Invitational Tournament in New York, but there was little hope of
going since the Southern Conference had refused to let the Wildcats go last year. Athletic Director Tom Scott took an
informal poll of some of the members of the Executive Committee and found the sentiment was still against allowing them
to go. He decided to pursue the venture no further. Dean Frontis Johnston, who formerly served on the Executive Committee,
said that as far as last year’s decision was concerned, Davidson wasn’t allowed to go because it would hurt the
Conference in the eyes of the NCAA. Ronald Green, sports editor of The Charlotte News, called the NIT “a tournament
of also-rans,” implying that Davidson didn’t need to go to it in the least, since the Wildcats have already made
their mark on the country, and no prestige would be gained by going to the NIT.

PAST PLAYING AND FUTURE PLANS
Senior Cagers View Careers

Hetzel Everybody’s A-A, Adds AP, Sporting News
By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“Fred Hetzel is the best big man in the country,” has been the opinion of Wildcat Coach Lefty Driesell for
some time. It seems now, at season's end, that this was not merely a public-relations statement handed out by a
press-conscious coach but was an accurate observation of fact. With four major All-America teams having come out so far, Hetzel
has been the lone pivot man on every one. Indeed, the Sporting News, which picks its team’s members by position,
chose Hetzel as the nation's number one center. The first team to be announced was that of the National Basketball
Association (NBA). The nine coaches had a tie in their voting and consequently chose a six-man squad. Princeton's Bill Bradley
received a unanimous 18 points for first place. Michigan junior Cazzie Russell polled 17 points and Hetzel collected 15. Miami's
Rick Barry with 14 and Gail Goodrich of UCLA and Wichita’s Dave Stallworth with 13 apiece rounded out the squad.
United Press International dropped mid-year graduate Stallworth and added Utah State's late Wayne Estes, who was accidentally electrocuted February 8,
and also picked a six-man team. Russell led this poll of UPI correspondents, with 95 percent of the ballots. Bradley
got 92 percent, and Barry had 86 percent. Goodrich collected 74 percent, and Hetzel and Estes had 64 percent. The
Sporting News’ team, picked strictly by position, came out early this week. Stallworth and Bradley are the squad’s forwards; Russell
and Goodrich are at the guard spots, and Hetzel is in the pivot. The Associated Press also broke precedent and
selected six men. 216 AP sports writers and broadcasters chose the team on the basis of five votes for first
place and two for second. Bradley led with 993 votes, followed closely by Russell with 964. Following them, at a
distance, are Barry, Goodrich, Hetzel, and Estes, all of whom are far ahead of the second squad members. Hetzel himself
accepts the fact without either seeming boastful or being overly modest. It's true that this has been what he has
aimed for in college ball. In his own words, his “greatest achievement.” Always, when asked to comment upon it, he
has said that it couldn't have been done without the coaches and the other players. But there is no doubting
that Hetzel is proud of the job he has done. “I'm really thrilled,” he admits.

FROSH TENNIS
Freshman tennis team tryouts will begin Monday on the lower tennis courts at 3:30, according to tennis coach Harry Fogleman.
“Any freshman interested in playing this spring should be there Monday,” says Fogleman. Soccer spring practice will begin after spring
vacation on April 6. Fogleman also said that this year's freshmen sensations, Davidson will win again and bring pride and
hopes and dreams to the campus. There will be good teams to come. And more good players. But none will
ever steal the spotlight from the current stars.
