FROLICS FORECAST issued at 5:30 p.m. Fair to partly cloudy and warm tonight and Saturday, with widely scattered showers this
evening. Sunday partly cloudy and warm. Low tonight 60. High tomorrow 83. High Sunday in the 80's.

VOL. LIV. UNIDENTIFIED ARM DONATES PLASMA Despite Residual Alcohol Content

Davidson ROTC Sets Second Blood Drive

The semi-annual ROTC blood drive will be held Monday and Tuesday in Johnston Gymnasium, giving Davidson students the opportunity to
contribute to the Red Cross blood program. For the past two years, Davidson has won the college competition award in
the Piedmont Carolina region; Captain Harold J. Fraley, ROTC coordinator, hopes that the college can again win this award. Hours
for blood donations will be from 11-3. Mike Booe, IFC publicity chairman for the drive, urges students who know that
they are ineligible to give because of recent inoculations or operations to come anyway. Ineligible donors still count in the
contest. Booe also pointed out that part of the success of the drive in the past can be credited to
interfraternity competition. ROTC cadets who donate will be given ten merits (which is fifteen merits less than the going price
for blood last fall) or a free drill cut, but not both. No physical education classes will meet on Monday
or Tuesday of next week. The Red Cross recommends a period of rest following a blood donation.

Fraternity Information

President D. Grier Martin has mailed each member of the college Board of Trustees a packet of materials on the
fraternity evaluation question in advance of the trustees’ annual spring meeting on campus next Friday. The information distributed by President
Martin includes the reports of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee (the majority and two minority reports), the report of the faculty
Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life, the faculty action of April 13, and a statement by the IFC. Martin
said that he hopes that the material will be of benefit to the Trustees so that they will be prepared
to act effectively at their meeting Friday. He stated that since the board will have to pass upon the large
appropriation ($100,000) required to establish the two proposed eating clubs, it was necessary to have all members as well informed
as possible. The trustees’ Committee on Religious and Social Life, Church and Alumni Relationships will meet Thursday to discuss the
action of the faculty. The Rev. Albert McClure of Barium Springs, chairman of the trustee committee, stated that it would
be meeting for the purpose of study. The agenda of the committee meeting has yet to be determined, McClure said,
and it was not known to what extent the committee meeting would hear information in addition to that distributed by
the president. The Education Committee has been meeting to study the faculty oath, and the entire board will act on
any recommendations the committee may make. In addition, the trustees will approve faculty appointments and leaves of absence and will
make a further study of the administration’s plan for future development of the college.

Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life, said that his committee had
completed its immediate examination of the subject when it submitted its report to the faculty. He added that any further
official action in the near future was not likely aside from the committee’s normal activity and its appraisal of the
workability of the proposed eating club arrangement. McGavock said that although he would not be on campus during the trustee
meeting, he does plan to contact Rev. McClure in hopes of providing any answers to possible questions. McGavock is at
present trying to evaluate student attitudes toward the eating club arrangement. He believes that the effectiveness of such a proposal
rests with the willingness of the students to promote it. McGavock said that he hopes that student interest will be
sufficient to provide a positive outlet for the non-fraternity man and at the same time stimulate the fraternities to greater
effectiveness in the college community.

Students Sign Petition: For Repeal Of Clause

By BOS TRAVERS Davidsonian Staff Writer

Arnie Goodstein, newly elected member of the Honor Court, is sponsoring a move to free members of the student government
from being “honor bound” to report drinking violations. Goodstein has approached about 220 members with a petition which states that
Article 8, section 2 of the Student Body Constitution is “anachronistic and should be repealed by amendment.” Approximately 200 people
have signed the petition. Only 50 are needed to force a referendum. A two-thirds vote in that referendum would pass
the proposal. The provision as it now stands states that “No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors or
having the same in his possession on the campus. Every student found guilty of this regulation shall be suspended from
the college.” “I hope to be able to present this at a chapel program, perhaps next week,” Goodstein said. “People
with other points of view would, of course, also be allowed to speak. The reason we want to repeal this,”
he explained, “is that it causes about 30 people to be ‘honor bound’ to report drinking violations.”

Spring Frolics Commences

Dionne Warwick and Mary Wells tonight, followed by Fred Smoot and the Lettermen tomorrow night, will highlight the 1965 edition
of Spring Frolics. Weather permitting, tonight's concert will be held on the front steps of Chambers Building beginning at 7:30.
Tomorrow night’s IFC performance will take place in Chambers Auditorium beginning at 8. Both will be three hours in length,
followed by the movie “To Kill a Mockingbird” in the Morrison Room of the Union.

Dionne Warwick, voted “Most Popular Female Vocalist in 1964” by the National Association of Record Merchandisers, has made the quick
climb to fame in less than two years. Born into a family of gospel singers, she grew up playing the
piano and singing in the church choir. Mary Wells, singer and songwriter, has been headlined “Miss Hitmaker, U.S.A.” Her latest
album, “Mary Wells' Greatest Hits,” features a collection of tunes popular with today's students. Fred Smoot, satirical, self-styled comedian, made
his first appearance at Davidson last year. His routine ranges from his famous rendition of Paul Revere’s memorable ride through
the New England countryside to a burlesque of a mythical opera. The Lettermen, folk singers, instrumentalists, and comedians, have performed
at more than 350 colleges throughout the country and were at Davidson two years ago.

Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, judged from the large number of room reservations for guests that this should be
one of Davidson's bigger weekends. Each fraternity has planned at least two parties for the weekend, and most have planned
lakeside festivities for Saturday afternoon. The fraternity parties are currently scheduled as follows:

Friday night—ATO's and Phi Delts, Dale and Del Hearts; Betas, Kappa Sigs and SAE's, Otis Redding; KA's, Rebels and Majestics;
Phi Gams, Imperials; Pika, Dynamics and Pearls; Pi Kapps, Willy Mitchell; Sig Eps, combo party; Sigma Chis, Fabulous Five.

Saturday afternoon—ATO's, Tom Jones party at Lake Campus; SAE’s, Fabulous Five at Harris Lake; Phi Delts, Kingbees; Pikas, Riverboat party;
Sig Eps, ice cream party at Lake Campus; Sigma Nus, Myrtle Beach trip; Sigma Chis, Derby Day at Lake Campus.

Saturday night—ATO’s, Creeper and the Ghost Riders; Betas, informal party without combo; KA’s, Imperials; Kappa Sigs, Fabulous Five; SAE's, Yakkety
Yaks; Phi Delts, Delmonicos; Phi Gams, Chordinaters; Pikas, Dale and the Del Hearts; Pi Kapps, Royal Knights; Sig Eps, combo
party; Sigma Chis, Fabulous Five.Eps, combo party: Sigma Chis, Instigators.

FRIDAY, APRIL 23
3:00 p.m. Baseball, Georgia Southern
7:30 p.m. IFC Concert with Mary Wells and Dionne Warwick, Chambers
11:30 p.m. Movie: “To Kill A Mockingbird,” Morrison Room, Union

SATURDAY, APRIL 24
2:00 p.m. Baseball, Georgia Southern
2:00 p.m. Track, Davidson Relays
8:00 p.m. IFC Concert with Fred Smoot and The Lettermen, Chambers
11:30 p.m. Movie: “To Kill A Mockingbird,” Morrison Room, Union

SUNDAY, APRIL 25
7:30 p.m. Vespers

THE LETTERMEN RETURN TO DAVIDSON
Will Appear With Fred Smoot Tomorrow With Dionne And Mary Wells

VOTER REGISTRATION
Students, Faculty Aid In Effort
By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The much-discussed Davidson apathy gave way two weeks ago as several Davidson students and faculty members joined Mooresville Negroes in
a voting-registration drive. Dr. Philip Secor, who emphasizes that “I am not the main person involved in this,” described the
event as “a very healthy exercise in communication.” The impetus for the student participation in Mooresville politics was a call
from Rev. James McKenzie, rector of a Mooresville Negro church, asking for cars to help take Negroes to the polls
to register. This in turn was prompted by the candidacy of a Negro woman, Mrs. Joseph Byers, for town commissioner.
The group held two meetings in McKenzie's church to organize their plans. Then, Saturday, April 10, the students went to
Mooresville and teamed up with Negro high school boys for the drive. With Dr. Philip B. Secor, they went through
the Negro districts, ferrying interested people to the polls. Mooresville officials were described as “very cooperative.” Secor, a professor of
political science, was very pleased at the experiment in communications between the two races, speaking of the attempts at small
talk that the teams made as they made rounds. Regarding the project itself, he commented, “It was not national or
statewide. It was a community-sponsored project.” Described as a tour of the Negro community in Mooresville, the drive had as
its main purpose “the Negro’s getting involved in the life of his own community.” Secor said, “I feel that the
best way for them to get their (Negro and civil rights) through is the American democratic process.” Secor added that
the group would probably be going over again on election day, April 27, but reemphasized, “This is a student project;
all I did was go along and drive a car.” The main students involved in the group are Jay Federman
and Duncan Newcomer. The two spoke in terms of future plans, rather than of accomplished objectives. While Federman declined to
list any specific projects ahead, he did state that the students would work on any project of the NAACP chapter
there, “as long as we approve of it.” He added, “A lot needs to be done,” naming segregated public facilities
as one problem they might be asked to work on. Federman emphasized, “We're not trying to organize anything; we're just
trying to give some help.” His final comment seemed to sum up the feelings of the group: “We've offered our
services as human beings.”

The Mooresville Tribune saw fit to disagree with the motives of the group, however, and suggested in an editorial that
Davidson students and faculty were descending upon Mooresville in a great crusade to open up polls to Negroes who had
never been barred from them. Secor termed the editorial “most unfortunate,” and commented that the author of the inflammatory remarks
now “regrets having jumped to a completely unwarranted conclusion.” Secor further described the event as “the most glamorous, simple response
to a completely uncomplicated request for help that I have ever seen.”

Council Debates Stand On Fraternities
By JOE BENTLEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student Council spent a considerable amount of time at its meeting Monday night discussing the faculty’s report on fraternities and
what action the council should take concerning it. The meeting opened with President Bill Council reviewing the role of the
faculty report's proposed Social Council. After David Walker questioned the need of having freshmen on the Social Council and Fred
Sackett explained the need for diversity in membership, Council announced that plans for the Social Council were “highly tentative,” but
stressed that “we must start right away.” Council then asked the council to accept Dan Campbell as chairman of the
Social Committee, but this proposal was tabled on a motion by Walker until the next meeting. Billy Clark asked if
the council should take a stand on the faculty fraternity action. Council replied that he had “reservations about the influence
of the council” in this matter, but that the council instead should provide “the direction for student action.”

CIRCULATE PETITION
After Sackett proposed circulating a council-sponsored petition, Clark expressed his opinion that most of the trustees are “outstandingly misinformed” and
that this should be tactfully brought out in any report or petition sent to the trustees by the council. Johnny
Gresham briefly changed the subject, proposing a Student Council committee to work with the IMAC to regulate athletics. No action
was taken on this proposal. Sackett took the floor again to present a “brief synopsis of the problems” caused by
the faculty report, and described the situation as being “very hairy.” He declared that the McGavock report was an attempt
to correct a problem without ever defining it. He labelled the faculty report as being “a compromise between the new
and the older faculty members that satisfied neither.”

FRESHMAN PLEDGING
Sackett, former IFC president, also said that the IFC is advocating some sort of freshman pledging and that McGavock would
not head the committee proposing the acceptance of the report bearing his name. He concluded his synopsis with “the faculty
is not all pleased.” Lee Fanning expressed the feeling that the McGavock report is essentially good except for the five
rush weekends which would serve not only to tire the fraternities but also the freshmen. He asked the council “to
support either the IFC or the McGavock report with reservations, preferably the IFC one” due to the smaller number of
rush periods. Gresham said that one year of no rush would at least give the Independents a chance to set
up eating clubs. Sackett continued the eating club theme with “the only answer I see for fraternities to exist is
in the success of the eating clubs.” After John Fagg suggested that whatever report be sent to the trustees should
contain a request for further and more extensive study, Julian Prosser called for a definite stand by the council on
the fraternity situation. Council appointed David Meschan chairman of a committee to submit several proposals to the council for consideration.

VESPERS ATTENDANCE
Without taking definite action on the faculty fraternity report but obviously not in sympathy with it, the council decided to
support the YMCA’s report to the Faculty Religious Life Committee calling for credit in attending any Christian Sunday church service
and not just those in Davidson. David Powell asked to be relieved of his job as traffic court observer; John
Thomas volunteered to fill the office. Jim Timmons then asked why the driving range is the only athletic activity which
costs, to which someone jokingly answered that “it has always been considered the sport of the wealthy leisure class.” Council
directed Timmons to contact Dr. Tom Scott about the problem. After the council decided that Prosser’s suggestion to consider action
on the drinking rule was too premature, the second meeting of the new council was adjourned. No members were absent.
