FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1965

BILL BRIGGS Sports Editor

TENNIS AND THE SPRINGTIME

Traditionally nobody cares about college sports in the springtime. Oh, a few people always like to know how much the
baseball team got beat, or who the fools are running around the football field in their “swing-easys,” but generally like
I said, nobody really cares about college sports in the springtime.

But a change has come. With a 17-1 record (counting today’s win over Wofford) Coach Harry Fogleman’s tennis team has
suddenly begun to be recognized through the shaded lenses of Davidson’s traditionally sun-seeking and suds-soaking spring student.

Four years ago Coach Fogleman came to Davidson, perennial loser in tennis (not to mention basketball, football, track, baseball, etc.,
etc.). “I told President Martin we’d have a winner in three years and a conference champion in four,” Fogleman beamed
shortly before leaving with his team for Atlanta last Wednesday.

Last year Fogleman’s first promise came true when his third year’s team, predominantly made up of sophomores, posted an 18-6
mark. This is Fogleman’s fourth year, and now the second half of his promise is much more than what might
have once appeared to be a silly dream.

Once, when Cleveland was beating the Yankees and the Giants played out of New York (remember? eons ago), once Davidson
was a tennis power. In 1954 and 1955 they won the Southern Conference Tournament, but since then their fortunes have
skidded. Eight of the past nine years a subsidized tennis power George Washington has won the Southern Conference title. The
only break in their vice-like grip on the championship cup was in 1961 when the Citadel won.

This year looks different. George Washington and the Citadel are strong, but we're stronger. Having beaten the Citadel earlier this
year and leading George Washington before rain saved the Colonials, things may well be different in Southern Conference tennis play.
But first, still looming as threats to a possible 22-1 record are Duke and Wake Forest.

“We have never beaten Duke since I’ve been here,” Coach Fogleman remarked. “This should be a good match; they beat
us in a close one last year, and they’ve got pretty much the same team back again.”

Why such success? Coach Fogleman contends, “We've got depth, that’s the mark of a good tennis team.” Both this depth
and the youth of the team is shown by a glance at the roster. Jeff Frank, a junior, was last
year’s number six man, but this year he is number eight. Jimmy Davis, Geordie Mueller, and Peter Parrott, all sophomores,
play numbers seven, six, and five positions, respectively. Dick Hurd, a junior, is the number four man. “He has gone
down some in the order due to lack of practice because of three labs a week,” Coach Fogleman lamented. Bill
Schutt, the captain, is the only senior on the team. He played number one man last year, but now he’s
number three. “It’s not that he’s getting worse,” Coach Fogleman remarked, “everybody else is just getting better.” Esmond Phelps, a
sophomore, is the number two man. “Phelps has the potential to be a really good player,” Coach Fogleman added. Bill
Council, a junior, plays number one this year. Coach Fogleman smiled, “Bill’s really doing well for us.”

Next year should even be stronger for the 'Cat netmen. Losing only number three man Schutt, they pick up Woody
Cleveland, on the Junior Year Abroad Program now, who played number one man on his freshman team with Council, Hurd,
and Frank. Besides Cleveland, Coach Fogleman expects to get a great deal of help from this year’s undefeated freshman team.
Woody Faulk and “Pinky” Hatcher both promise to be outstanding.

Ahead of next year, Fogleman has already begun to build. “Steve Faulk, Woody’s brother, is the best player we'll have
had since I’ve been here,” Fogleman reported. “He plans to enter Davidson this fall.”

Tennis is a big sport here. The enthusiasm it has generated with its outstanding records, its fine coach, and its
top-flight, non-subsidized players is THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Staff Photo by Johnson)

BILL COUNCIL PLAYS THE NET Number One Player On Soaring Tennis Team

ALSO FALL TO HIGH POINT

PAGE FIVE

-Netters Keep Winning, Take 3 More In Week

By STEVE BROWN Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s tennis team boosted their season record to 16-1 yesterday with a 7-2 victory over Emory University in a match
played at Atlanta. The win, which extends the Wildcats’ winning streak to 11 straight, followed triumphs of 9-0 over Guilford
last Saturday and of 6-3 over the University of Toledo Tuesday. The team's record this year, marred only by a
loss to Rollins College March 30, compares, according to Coach Harry Fogleman, “rather favorably” with last year's 12-4 standing at
this date.

Although the netters had little difficulty with the visiting Guilford team, with no match extending beyond two sets, the ‘Cats’
second opponent last week, the University of Toledo, proved tougher. Said Fogleman, “That school has a really fine team; their
coach is expecting them to win the Middle America Conference Tennis Championship, a win that would be second only to
the Big Ten Championship.” Fogleman went on to comment, “Our main strength in the Toledo match was in our fourth,
fifth, and sixth positions, which we won without too much trouble. Incidentally, the boys who fill these positions — Peter
Parrott, Jimmy Davis, Geordie Mueller, and Jeff Frank — are all undefeated in singles play. Also, Bill Council played fine
tennis for us, just the way he usually does. Esmond Phelps, who was defeated in his singles match, was up
against a human banking board; his opponent, Gary Greuenbaum, has the best cross-court two-hand forehand shot I've seen in a
long time. Bill Schutt’s match was nip and tuck all the way, and one point here or there could have
changed the whole picture. As far as the doubles go... well, we still need some work there.”

Hardballers Split With ECTC

By LARRY NORFLEET Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson picked up one win on the diamond last week while dropping two games on a split with East Carolina
and a loss to High Point College. East Carolina took Friday's game with 15 round trips to nine for Davidson.
The Pirates exploded for four big runs in the first inning, and Davidson never could catch up after that. East
Carolina tapped three Davidson pitchers for 15 hits as Dick Snyder got into trouble in the seventh inning. Gene Bennett
came in in relief to retire the other two batters, and then Charles Elliott took over pitching duties for the
rest of the game. Baseball mentor Tom Stevenson said that “the team is hitting a lot better,” as Davidson scattered
11 hits off Pirate hurler Tom Norman. Lance Walker and Snyder led the hitting for Davidson getting three hits apiece
while Jim Hyder banged out two.

Davidson bounced back on Saturday under the ace pitching of Howard Bryan to beat off the Pirates 6-5. Buddy Durham
pitched four innings but was replaced by Bryan after giving up four runs. East Carolina matched the Wildcats in the
hitting department as each team picked up twelve. Bryan added two singles to his winning effort on the mound, and
Claude Owen, breaking into the line-up at first base, went three for four at the plate. Coach Stevenson, in commenting
on the game, said, “This proves that we can beat anybody on a given day.”

But the ‘Cats bit the dust again last Tuesday as High Point College pushed past them 8-5 in error-filled playing.
Dave Johnson went the distance for the ‘Cats giving up 12 hits to account for the Panthers’ eight runs. Only
five of the eight were earned runs due to eight errors on the part of sloppy defense by the ‘Cats.
Coach Stevenson contended that “Johnson's pitching would have been good enough to win except for the errors.” Davidson picked up
11 hits of its own with Hyder, Snyder, and Sonny Graves leading the attack with two apiece.

Davidson faces two games with Georgia Southern on the 23rd and 24th. In an earlier meeting between the two, Southern
swept both games. Following that is a doubleheader with V.P.I. on the 26th. Davidson hasn't played V.P.I. this season, but
Coach Stevenson reported that “they have two good pitchers, whom they will probably start against us.” Rounding out the schedule
for April is a game at Chapel Hill with U.N.C. Wednesday.

SONNY GRAVES (Greatly Reduced)

This afternoon the Wildcats take on Wofford College at Spartanburg before heading into a heavy schedule of three varsity matches
and a freshman contest next week. Monday, the netters will meet VPI in a conference match here at Davidson; Wednesday,
the ‘Cats will take on AppalachianAt Boone; and Friday, the team will return to Davidson for freshman and varsity matches
with Wake Forest. Fogleman commented, “Wake Forest will probably be the toughest opponent out of these teams; they have real
good number one and two men. But of course the VPI match will be a conference outing, so we'll have
to be ready for that one.” Fogleman added that out of the matches remaining to be played the Duke team
should give the Wildcats their strongest challenge. “We've never defeated Duke since I've been here,” he said with a twinkle
in his eye, “but this might be the year!”

Frolics Sport Slate

The annual Davidson Relays, featuring track and field teams from 16 Southern schools, highlights the Spring Frolics sports schedule. The
Wildcat trackmen compete with strong teams from Emory University, East Tennessee State, and other North Carolina and Southern schools. The
’Cats are trying for a sixth consecutive win in the annual meet. Prospects are encouraging for another Wildcat victory, according
to Track Coach Heath Whittle. “We should do very well and have an excellent chance of winning,” commented Coach Whittle,
“although East Tennessee is bringing a fine set of relay teams and is the favorite because of their fast times
this spring.” Coach Whittle said he felt his thinclads would also be strongest in the relays, and that many records
will be broken in this year’s meet. “The new scoring system we will be using makes places in the relays
more valuable than in field events and should make the competition more interesting,” Coach Whittle stated.

The distance medley relay team composed of Ronnie Reese running the 440-yd. leg, Scott Sanford the 880, Dennie Phillips the
3/4-mile, and Tommy Heffner as anchor on the mile leg is expected to make the best showing for the Wildcats.
Other relay teams will be: 440-yd. — Tom Watson, Steve Gill, Star Evins, and Alan Turner; 880-yd. — Watson, Evins,
Gill, and Turner; 1 mile — Watson, Reese, Gill, and Phillips; Sprint Medley — Reese, Sanford, Phillips, Heffner; 2 mile
— Phillips, Heffner, John Barrow, and Reese.

In the field sports Jim Wallace, who won the discus last year, should do well again and John Fagg is
to be counted on heavily in the discus and shot. Other entries in the field sports for the ’Cats are:
High Jump — Rufus Adair and David Brown; Javelin — Bill Kendrick and Mike Thurman; Broad Jump and Hop-Step-Jump —
Brown and Lou Hill. Coach Whittle concluded by saying “I expect a good crowd, several broken records, and the best
meet yet.”

WITH PERFECT MARKS

Delts, Chis Take Softball Lead

By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With an April that seems to be serious in providing near-perfect outdoor-sports weather, IMAC softball moved into its third week.
The standings are beginning to fall into place, but the only thing one can be sure of at this point
is that there will be no runaway with the pennant. The Phi Delts are currently the hottest team in the
league, having a clean 4-0 record. But the Sigma Chis also hold a 4-0 mark, thus tying the Delts for
first place. Running in third place, to the surprise of everyone but perhaps themselves, are the Sig Eps (no misprint!).
They hold a 4-1 record that looks pretty substantial.

This week may have been the best that the season will offer. Action involved most of the teams and seemed
to pick up pace in inverse proportion to the minus-time before the arrival of Spring Frolics. Next week may be
expected to start a little slowly, and baserunning could prove hazardous on the cartridge-casing-infested fields. Said a Crusader optimistically after
the game, “We would have beaten them worse if it hadn't been for their shortstop (Austin Letson); he robbed us
of some good hits.”

The Sig Eps beat the Phi Gams 4-3, in an extra inning. Later in the week, they tackled the KA’s
and took them 10-5. Bobby Graham got three hits for the winners, in addition to pitching the entire game. Jim
Gaul got his second hit and his second home run to help the Sig Ep cause. The KA's began a
rally with four runs in the seventh, but it fell short.

The Pikas managed to overcome a high wind blowing in from the outfield and collected enough hits to beat the
Betas 4-2. The Pika infield made several errors early in the game but settled down in time to pull the
game out. The Sigma Nus finally were able to put together enough hits at the right time to go with
their hustling infield and won 19-1 over a valiant but winless ATO squad. Rick Pfitzner led the Nus with his
usual repertoire of jeers and cat-calls.

With Spring Practice

Spring football practice continues with nine more practices left, culminating on May 8 with the annual spring football game. When
asked to comment on the present goals of spring practice, Head Coach Homer Smith elaborated, “Right now there are two
pressures on us. One is to work toward simplicity by developing the fundamentals. The second is to establish an offense
and defense for next year, especially for the benefit of the rising seniors.” Coach Smith mentioned two plays in particular
that the offense has been working on. The fullback carries the ball each time in what he calls the belly
off tackle and the isolation plays. Steve Smith is running at fullback with Billy Taylor currently working at quarterback. Each
practice session ends with a series of grueling wind sprints which separate the “Burners” from the “Commandos.” The latter group
stays for extra work after practice. Coach Smith singled out Tommy Caldwell as being the fastest back on the team,
along with Woody Hill as the fastest interior lineman. Coach Smith concluded, “We still have a lot to learn about
hustle, and we (the coaches) still have a lot to teach in order to accomplish our objectives.”

While Hugh Allen “rested his arm,” the Phi Delts took a most important game from the Kappa Sigs, 15-12. Lindsey
Collins was the winning pitcher, going all seven innings. Larry Compton pitched four innings for the Sigs before giving the
mound to Fred Hetzel, who was credited with the loss. The Delts opened up with six runs in the seventh
inning, led by John Louthridge, who got his second hit of the season, a grand slammer.

The Sigma Chis kept their record clean with a 6-0 shutout over the Pi Kapps. Jim Kopp was the winning
pitcher. Bill Daisy pitched for the losers. Tommy James led the Chis hitting with three for four, including a homer.

Davidson holds the home course advantage Monday as they host the North Carolina State linksmen in an inter-conference golf match
at 2:00 o'clock at the Carolina Golf and Country Club. The 'Cats are 8-5 and have met State once before.
This meet, played in Raleigh, ended in defeat for Davidson. Coach Tom Scott commented on the team's chances: “State has
a good club, but I think it will be about 50-50, a toss-up.” Going into the Duke match last week,
Joe Jelks was playing number one, George Brewer, Bill Ross, and Macky McClelland tied for number two honors. Champ Covington,
Doug McKeever, and Walt Daniels complete the seven-man squad.
