Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Visit And The Secret

Another installment in the recent history of Davidson will be made next week with the arrival on campus of an evaluation committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. The sojourn of the seven-man delegation here will be the climax of nearly two years of work on the part of Davidson leaders to compile a self-evaluation report in connection with the visit of the Southern Association committee. Doubtless no aspect of the college will be left unexamined by the group during its three-day stay. Davidson is in no danger of losing its accreditation, we feel sure, and may indeed enhance its position of leadership among institutions of learning in the South. The self-study report itself is no brief statement. In printed form it is thicker than the college catalogue, and it is necessarily more realistic than the usual college propaganda.

One matter which is not contained in the self-study report and which may well rate a great deal of concern on the part of the visiting committee is the measure which would prevent assistant professors and instructors from voting in faculty meetings on matters of college policy. Such a proposal was approved on first reading by the Trustees last month, but the measure must pass a second reading by the Trustees before it becomes official. What is striking is the air of secrecy which surrounded the matter. While full details of other action were available after the meeting of the Trustees last month, no announcement or hint of such an important item as limiting a professor’s vote in faculty meetings was even mentioned. When asked by THE DAVIDSONIAN why such a change might be considered, President D. Grier Martin expressed the feeling that changes in college policy should be approved by members of the faculty who had been at Davidson more than just a few years.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE
Associate Editors
Assistant Editors
Managing Editors
PAUL MARION Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK News Editor
SAM BOYTE Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

The president would give no reason as to why the action was not announced along with other details of the Trustees’ meeting. If the purpose in the proposed amendment is to set qualifications for voting on the basis of time served at Davidson, as President Martin implied, then the absurdity of the proposal is plainly evident. With the current faculty here, an associate professor who has been teaching for two months may vote, while another professor who has been at Davidson for nearly ten years would be disqualified. How the Trustees could endorse such a situation is beyond us; yet, were the change in effect now, such would be the situation. The ambiguity of the term “college policy” is also dangerous. President Martin declined to distinguish between policy and non-policy matters, but indicated that several of the most recent cases of student conduct could be considered matters of “college policy.” In other words, nearly every matter considered by the faculty could conceivably be classified as one of policy.

All of the facts and implications of this matter are obviously yet to be determined. From what we have been able to gather, faculty feeling—both among those who would be disenfranchised and those who would not—is running rather high. Unfortunately, this reaction is based somewhat on rumors, since as of late yesterday afternoon, the faculty still had not been officially notified of the actual proposal. We trust that this incomprehensible air of furtiveness will be dispelled soon, and that there will be extensive and open discussion among all concerned before such a drastic move is implemented. Full and honest communication now, especially between faculty and Trustees, will partially compensate for its incredible absence to date.

Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM
Photography Editor
TOM THEL
Photographer
CHIP PURVIS
Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
Advertising Manager
BILL WATSON
Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors This Week: Ed Embree, Bob Reid, Don Sewell, Yates Faison, Steve Brown, Cliff Duke, Doug Crisp, Joel Keys, Larry Norfleet, G. D. Weeks, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen, John Wessel, Bob Schofield, Bill Graham, Kent Gladstone, Ron Snow, Cameron Ferguson, Grey Pash, Bob Travers, Tom Rhodes, Mason Stephenson, Price Cameron, Rob Powell, Bruce Weihe, Craig Wilson, Ted Winter, Mike May.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

‘Green Grow The Lilacs’ Merits Critic's Applause
By MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“Green Grow the Lilacs,” is good light entertainment, well worth seeing despite problems in the singing and wi This play with music by Lynn Riggs was later adapted into the Broadway movie hit, ‘Oklahoma,” and is the first production of the season for the Davidson Drama Department. According to the author, this play's moods attempt to reflect themes and characters seen in an Oklahoma childhood. The sets are well-placed and their realism adds much to the play. There is a romance between a beautiful farm girl (Barbara Fagg) and a cocky cowboy (John Warren), an earthy old aunt (Mrs. Cary Wolf), a bad guy (Don Davis), and a number of other characters from a farm ranch environment. The love protagonists are simply drawn and adequately portrayed. Warren and Miss Fagg do a fair job of acting out a romance between an almost naive farm girl and a boisterous good guy. Of the four major roles, that of the villain Jeeter Fry, played by Don Davis, is the best portrayed. Davis makes very few flaws in his interpretation of a warped little character who nonetheless attracts a strange sympathy as the play unwinds. John Bailey gives a very good performance in one of the minor roles as Old Man Peck. The weakest point of the play is the singing. Warren does not have a full enough voice to carry the songs and lyrical moods his role demands; his singing is strained and this detracts from his cocky, happy-go-lucky attitude which is otherwise well done. Laurey’s song is done a little better than most and the other songs are at best adequate, except for one by Patsy Whitley as Ado Annie, whose style is marvelously suited for her role as a scatterbrained Oklahoma farm girl. Her song is quite effective, the square dance scene comes off rather well. This simple little play flows like an “old song” and is kinda melodramatic at points, but some of the group scenes. there are suggestions of unrest and more subtle implications throughout—many of the hidden meanings are dependent upon the actions of the cast and are often lost in the shuffle. These questions come immediately to mind as the play unfolds: What hints about human nature is the playwright trying to put across when he makes the villain Jeeter Fry an object of sympathy, particularly as Curley goads Jeeter into several acts of desperation? Why should Curley and Laurey be almost comical in characterization as opposed to Jeeter as a more complex human tragedy? Why is Laurey so attracted to and yet repelled by Jeeter and where is this shown? So “Green Grow the Lilacs” is simple and yet not so simple. But either way Director Rupert T. Barber has gotten a good performance out of a freshman-studded cast that reflects not so much their inexperience as their enthusiasm.

THEY'RE JUST A BUNCH OF PARTY BOYS... JUST A BUNCH OF FLITS---

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Mixon Renews Campaign For Honor Court Change

Dear Editor:

The present Honor System, specifically Section 5, Article VII of the Student-Body Constitution, is a dangerously excessive and outmoded punishment system.

PUNISHMENT

The designated punishment is excessive and should be moderated. The inestimable damage inflicted upon a student found guilty of a violation is not in proportion to what in fact has been committed. Is there anything that a student can do to the College community or student body, that approaches the magnitude of the punishment awarded to a guilty offender? One does not join the Honor System on a voluntary basis: it is compulsory to abide by the regulations and submit to the punishment if guilty of violation. A social group of our college size requires a certain degree of coercion and sanction to produce the measure of solidarity and unity requisite for its maintenance. The Honor System serves an important function in this respect; however, it is the designated sanction of dismissal that is dangerously excessive.

FINALITY

There is a certain degree of finality in the dismissal of a student from college. The present procedure for appeal is undefined and often changed, and even then it certainly appears to be futile. Absolute punishment demands fool-proof and perfect methods of determining guilt, in order to offset the irrevocable nature of absolute or final punishments and assure infallibility. The dismissal penalty is absolute in its implications, and is determined by one’s own fellow students, who are indeed fallible. The questionable methods of collecting evidence (e.g. baiting), the student politics and friendships involved (e.g. in the selection and investigation of suspects), are factors which enter into any Honor Court decision. Such relative and partial factors will always be present, and therefore, the penalties should reflect these inadequacies of the Court. It is not sufficient that Court members try to be objective; the Honor Court cannot afford to be wrong, yet they could be.

MERCY

The present Honor System needs an enlarged concept of justice that takes into account the role of mercy. The role of mercy is to season and temper justice.With genuine humanity, and approach the God-like attribute of forgiveness: mercy is also needed in order to account for the possible fallibility of the suspect as well as the Court judges, and the extenuating causes and circumstances related to the violation. Does an educational institution owe its students more than a rigidly enforced “tradition of honor”? Presently, if the Honor Court finds a student guilty of violation, it mechanically entails immediate dismissal. Punishment, properly understood, involves both its deterrent and reformatory aspects. The present Honor System needs a strong emphasis on the reformatory aspects of punishment. Who could do more for the individual violator of our “community of honor,” a large and unconcerned society or our common community? A college community is financially capable and morally responsible for administering corrective therapy for the maladjustment of any student to the regulations of an Honor System. A college administration that takes pride in the careful selection of students should not be so quick to support their dismissal when such well-chosen students fail to adjust to a rigidly enforced Honor System.

PETITION

These objections to the present Honor System are serious and present some of the grave consequences that can affect the security of an individual student. I urge other students to petition that Section 5, Article VII of the Student Body Constitution be amended to contain the substance of these following suggestions: (1) to retain dismissal from the college only as a maximum penalty for the violation of the provisions of the Honor Code; (2) to initiate as an alternative, reformatory and corrective treatment of students found guilty of violation of the Honor Code, that the treatment be paid for by the college, and that the treatment be available by either the guilty student's request OR the opinion of the Court members; (3) with repeated violations, it should be at the discretion of the Court to show cause that continued corrective treatment will not yield a reformed and well-adjusted student, and hence dismissal is appropriate and proper.

RESULT

These modifications would alter our present Honor System, but the sense of honor of the well-adjusted individual student is not jeopardized or impaired by the possibility of reformatory measures for those students who fail to properly adjust. The dangers inherent in the current provision for only immediate dismissal if found guilty, these are greater than the dangers of permitting a violator to be given opportunity for reform in our own common community. You owe it to yourself. You are infallible.

Wayne Mixon
Davidson College

Woofen

Dear Editor:

MACHIAVELLI: I have heard from a reliable source that there is at least one place on earth where my maxim “the end justifies the means” has taken root: and, of all places, it is at a Christian liberal arts college.

CESARE BORGIA: Really, Nicolo, where is it and how is your theory applied?

MACHIAVELLI: There is a small college in North Carolina, Davidson I believe it is called, on that new continent which our fellow countryman Columbus discovered. At this institution, the administration believing that the ROTC department should be maintained on the campus, requires every student to take two years of the course since it fears that the department would not be able to be maintained on the campus if everyone were not required to take the basic course.

CESARE BORGIA: I don’t exactly see what you mean, Niccolo.

MACHIAVELLI: Well, if less than 100 students signed up for the course during their freshman year, the entire department would have to be abolished. Therefore, the college sacrifices the interests of approximately half of every class which enters the college, that is, those who do not take the advanced program, in order to maintain that same program. Don’t you see, the end (the maintenance of the department) justifies the means (wasting two years of many students’ time).

CESARE BORGIA: Yes, indeed, Niccolo, it is very clear now. Your ideas have been very skillfully applied. I am also surprised, however, that your theory, since it is considered by so many people to be immoral, has taken root at a Christian institution.

Cecil W. Wooten, II
Montpellier, France

CLOSE-UP
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

ON RUSH

It is evident, as Rush enters its third week, that a great deal of misinformation is being accepted as fact by Davidsonians on both sides of the fraternity-independent line. As I have viewed both these areas of campus life from within and from without, I feel that there are certain clarifications I must make—particularly for this year’s freshmen.

SOME ISSUES

Charge: Fraternities are anti-intellectual.
Reply: Hogwash. On the Davidson level, if anything, fraternities stimulate scholarship. The C to C-plus requirements for attaining brotherhood, the intense competition for the Belk Scholarship Trophy, the fact that a majority of the seniors recently selected for Phi Beta Kappa are fraternity men all bear this out. Again on the Davidson level, fraternities do not require a member’s time to the extent that his work suffers.

Charge: Fraternities are expensive.
Answer: Yes, one can say that fraternity membership is MORE expensive than the life of an Independent. Some inactive fraternity members have recorded savings of $100 to $300 a year by purchasing food on a per-meal basis, by avoiding the College’s $46 fraternity housing fee, and by avoiding payment of national fraternity dues and local assessments. One thing to keep in mind: when a fraternity has a party, EVERYBODY pays for it. It makes no difference if you are unable to attend; it matters not if you voted against having the party in the first place.

Charge: Fraternities are cliquish.
Answer: Isn’t that the way of all men? I am certain that disappearance of fraternities from the Davidson scene would NOT keep groups of similar people from sticking together. However, a common complaint by freshmen about Rush is that the fraternity, along with choosing them, is also selecting their associates for the next four years in the form of pledge brothers. As a pledge, you are expected to associate primarily with these people.

Charge: Fraternities are undemocratic.
Reply: Yes, indeed. The fraternity, the country club, and the Rotary Club all operate on much the same principle. Even with removal of color and creed bars, the fraternity will remain just as exclusive so long as it operates on a blackball system. The question, “Should the fraternities have a responsibility to ALL the freshmen?” is often posed in the Davidson framework, where the percentage of students in fraternities, and the social advantages of fraternity membership, are great.

A BRIEF SURVEY

Statement: The food at a fraternity house is better.
Reply: Emphatically yes. It is obvious that a cook can better prepare for 50 than 400.

Statement: There is no social life for Independents.
Reply: This was true until this year. The Social Council has largely rectified this situation.

Statement: There is no alternative to fraternities at Davidson.
Opinion: I think that there is. Even with its concomitant problems, I think experimentation should continue. IF fraternities are to be kept, then I suggest a serious study into the benefits of national ties. I urge consideration of universal bidding. If fraternities per se are to go, it must be in a movement that is student-led. If they are to go, then I suggest that some viable eating club arrangement be proposed—to be tried within the framework of our current de-centralized eating facilities.

IN CLOSING...

Freshmen, you judge. If you pledge a fraternity, realize not only that it is not the evil world that may have been described to you by an Independent, but also that it is not the glowing wondrous existence some fraternity men paint. If you decide not to pledge, then begin work to ameliorate certain disadvantages of the Independent’s life. To both future pledges and future Independents of the Class of 1969—I hope that you will continue your up-to-now friendships with a wide range of your class. To me, this is a large part of the college experience.

Sophomores Ask Change In Punishment Procedure

Dear Editor:

The unconcern for personal integrity which the Honor Court follows in its enforcement of justice merits criticism. With its emphasis on rigid and unrelenting punishment, the Court disregards the total well-being of those who are brought before it. We propose, therefore, that the Honor Court be allowed constitutionally to use discretion in dealing with the offenders. As long as the Honor Court must expel every student convicted of cheating, stealing, or lying (as the Constitution states), it ignores the fact of human frailty. In order to better serve Davidson College, then, punishments should be in accordance with the severity of the offense. A distinction should be made, in cases of theft, between a misdemeanor and a felony; and in cases of cheating, the difference between intentional and unintentional acts should be observed. Lying under oath should still be punished by expulsion. The distinction should be made because some offenders may not threaten the community enough to be expelled. For example, a student may unintentionally plagiarize by failing to acknowledge his source, an offense for which dismissal is not warranted. We further recommend: (1) That members of the Court serve a single term of one year and (2) That no student should be threatened with expulsion for failure to press charges against another. The purpose of the Honor Court is to preserve the order of the academic community. When that order is threatened, the Court should act; when it is not dangerously challenged, the Court should use discretion.

(Our own work unless otherwise stated.)

Ken Tarleton
Joseph F. Dial
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.