Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES Dibble Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Out Of Focus

The Washington Post, which eloquently states its opinion to each member of Congress over the breakfast table every morning, operated
on the American Medical Association in a recent editorial entitled “Last Ditchmanship." The poll of the capital press poignantly insisted
that “the AMA has so consistently been too late with too little that it has become hard to look to
that organization for any constructive role in designing medical insurance programs. The AMA has, in turn, opposed every step that
has been taken to improve access to medical care for Americans of average and below-average incomes. It originally opposed Blue
Cross and Blue Shield; it opposed the original Kerr-Mills legislation it now so bravely endorses; it now comes up with
an ‘eldercare’ proposal only after it had become unmistakably clear that Congress is ready to pass a hospital care program.”

As attacks on the “last ditchmanship” of the AMA, these points of the Post are valid. However, despite the editorial's
title, the Post's ultimate object of attack is the AMA's “Eldercare” program, which has been submitted as an alternative to
the administration's “Medicare” plan. The Washington paper contends, “The AMA stuck to last ditchmanship, and it is going to be
hard to take its latest ‘education’ campaign and its latest proposals as anything but further reflection of the AMA's lack
of interest in any aspect of health insurance except to keep the role of Government to a minimum.”

Never does the Post turn its attention to the “Eldercare” plan itself. Rather the newspaper—in a shrewdly oblique fashion—discredits the
motives of the measure’s sponsors. Perhaps the sponsors’ motives deserve criticism, but such criticism should never replace judgment of the
program on merit alone.

Thanks, Fellows

Meeting the Citadel’s tenacious cadets provided a fitting end to regular-season play for this year's Wildcats. Close scores in the
first half, followed by second-half surges and healthy finishes, have been frequent enough to provoke ulcers this year, both within
and beyond the scrappy and unpredictable Southern Conference. No matter where the tourney wave ends, one fact remains: leaving the
team this year are men who—under the keen eye of Coach Lefty Driesell—have added a Gauguinish splash to the portrait
of Davidson.

Davidson is still a “small, church-related, academically strong liberal-arts college for men.” But it is more: Davidson is also a
nationally ranked basketball power. While adding such a distinction to its catalogue of descriptives, Davidson has also quietly acquired another
laudable asset. School spirit—however trite that phrase may be—has snuggled up to the somewhat reserved, then warming embrace of the
Davidson student body. Over the past four years, the vague and intangible qualities of “school spirit” have become real and
readily perceptible traits in the student body. The bleachers in Johnston Gymnasium are not only filled but also exuberant. There
now exists a facet of Davidson in which all students take pride; there now exists a facet of Davidson with
which all students as a student body identify.

Many should share in the credit for the transition. But deserving special attention are this year's seniors—Hetzel, Teague, Davidson, Marcan,
Briggs. Recruited by Lefty and closely watched their freshman year by a victory-hungry community, the fledgling ‘Cats came through their
sophomore year with an impressive record that included a stunning upset of then second-ranked Duke. The seasons since then have
seen no less success, no less pressure amid ever-increasing student pride. We revel in reflecting on the Horatio Alger-like climb
of Davidson from the conference doormat. And accompanying our reflective delight is the hope that we have witnessed but the
first fleeting moments of a long period of success for Davidson teams and for Davidson.

Bright Spot

In considering the question of where we stand, I have found that there are bright spots, grey spots, and spots
that remain predominantly dark. To speak first of the bright spots, I think we must all agree that some solid
progress has been made in strengthening and improving public education. Perhaps the first thing to note on the bright side
is a change of atmosphere; in a great many schools, the intellectual development of young people is now accepted as
the primary aim of schools and no longer drags behind citizenship training, home and family living, and the development of
leisure-time activities. The bright child is more and more coming to be considered a national asset, although in some circles
brightness is still considered a sort of affliction, the bright child becoming the “exceptional” child, classed with such unfortunates as
the emotionally disturbed and mentally backward.

The new respect for things of the mind and for a curriculum to match is reflected in a number of
ways. Many school people have sought the help of subject-matter specialists in the colleges in an effort to strengthen the
basic subjects, and in recent years we have seen the fruitful results of this cooperation. This is notably true in
the sciences and in mathematics, where committees of specialists, working with school people, have been busy revising and improving the
curriculum. That a segment of secondary education has improved in recent years is demonstrated in part by higher college entrance
examination scores and by reports from deans of admissions who tell us that entering classes are steadily improving. But perhaps
a word of caution is in order here; we do not know whether these higher scores are accompanied by greater
representation among high schools around the country or if the first-rate colleges continue to draw their high-

One of the difficulties in viewing films is the lives which we bring into the theater. We often confuse life
with art, and often what we see on the screen offers no insights whatsoever and doesn’t matter. What we often
fail to realize is that the life on the screen will mean something to us only if we accept it
as something separate from our own lives, and tend to it as a reflection upon our existence rather than a
repetition of it. This, of course, assumes that the film is worthwhile, and that it merits our chosen time. God's
Little Acre, advertised as an explicit portrait of the changing society in rural Georgia, was a failure because it offered
only a superficial view of life but treated that view as if it really mattered. Goldfinger, on the other hand,
won our acceptance because it never made a claim to realism, and benefited from the fact that we could suspend
our disbelief for the

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Council Member Answers Recent Editorial Criticism

Dear Editor:
Charles Ramberg’s mumblings from the Baggage Compartment have reached a new level of thoughtless chatter. Glossily and cynically, he punctures
the over-inflated Davidson basketball. No one will question his theme: Davidson is first and foremost an educational institution, and we
should not let overemphasis on basketball subvert other higher values. But this style belittles—and perhaps he has never encountered—men as
that student, for whatever reason, disappointed a child.

PERVASIVE IMPLICATION

The pervasive implication in the minutes... As for “what the Student Council has been doing,” we are delighted to learn
of the Council's great initiative and motivation in the realm of the drinking rule change and the fraternity evaluation.

Webb

Dear Editor:
Sophomores! Where is your courage? Sophomores! Where is your curiosity? Members of the Class of '68 have been pioneers in
at least two respects: Juniors were in the pilot group for the Fraternities program, and Juniors participate in the first
Davidson Junior Year Abroad. Alas! So few of you possess that adventurous spirit which motivated Charter. The Junior Year in
France presents a challenge. The Junior Year in France offers a new frontier. The Junior Year in France renders a
cultural confrontation. Your predecessors recognized in the Junior Year in France a unique educational opportunity. In the fresh air of
France, some have again found that stagnant provincialism about which we Davidsonians often speak. For there is something stimulating in
provincialism with a French accent. Some few French-speaking sophomores are taking advantage of this opportunity. Why aren't there more? Are
you afraid that you are not capable of adjusting to a change of environment? Afraid of losing a year of
buzzing? Afraid that you will not complete your major? These are important factors to consider. But consider also the benefits
of testing your capabilities. Consider the advantagesaf working with Descartes’ “grand livre du monde.”* Consider that about half of the
students at Montpellier will go abroad. Where is your scoring students from the same relatively small group of first-rate high
schools. To Staibom Bods tow our Cauh-0, Sophomores minerals! —The Council for Basic Education rule which states that the Try
to imagine what year of Associate Editors ____ Jim Downey Charles Bantbet Rick von Unwer Tim Kimrey Managing Editors John
Todd Mike Harénpon Asst. Managing Editor — John Bitney News Editor —______ Julia Adair Feature Editor —__Hayward Cartas Sports Editor
— Johnny Clark Assistant Sports Editor — Bill Briggs Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane Asst. Circulation Manager, Joe Weer Copy Editor
_.....__ Dan Davis Asst. Copy Editors ——-— Bill Aitken Calvin Zea Sam Smith Tan Thel Franklin Sproul Jack Lingle Rufus
Hallmark Lou Bill Asst. Business Manager — Irvine Welling Advertising Manager —- Bob Cameron Photographers Cartoonists - Contributors this week:
Son Horie, Tom Cook, John Allen, Mike Mooty, Steve Brown, Larry Mortiect, Neville Pusseren, Paul Mavian, Tucker Lawton, Louis Lesesne,
Dick Spencer, Rick Beery, Bob Scranser, Steve Couch, Ron Snow, Bob Travers, Tim Rothermel, Walt Drake, Mike Bales, Ed Maxwell,
Hert Whisnant, Roger David, Joe Ford, Frank Flensing, Billy Farr, Grey Pash, Fanny Boone, Ted Giustman, Smiths Meltoitban. Entered as
Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879. Council must display
its minutes. This is done as a service to interested students. Admittedly, one unfortunate, overworked secretary has fallen slightly behind.
In the second place, Dibble's publication is eloquent testimony to what the Student Council has been doing. It frightens me
to contemplate what would have filled the newspaper space occupied by such stories as the drinking rule change and the
Fraternity evaluation. More of his own are- actions?!? Triesfews fisrlalstt David Powell Davidson College (Editor's note: As a result of
our “at best petty at worst unwarranted” criticisms, the secretary-treasurer has now posted in the College Union the minutes of
the Council’s latest meeting. Of course, the meetings took place Feb. 15 instead of Feb. 22 as scheduled to study
abroad would mean to you. You might be changed. You might be revitalized. You might make a slight contribution to
world understanding. Have you ever wondered how France elects its chief executive? Or how nationalization of vital services affects the
consumers? Or what differences exist between American and French education? Or why it is that the French Richardson scholars do
not understand your French? If you have wondered, open your eyes. Right in front of you is an opportunity to
stimulate (not satisfy) your nascent curiosity. I hope that this letter has fallen under the scrutiny of a rare imaginative
Sophomore. May you take advantage of one of Davidson's most valuable opportunities: The Junior Year in France. Darel Johnny Webb
Davidson Junior Abroad Montpellier, France Cornelson Dear Editor: Mr. Kimrey’s review of the World Student Day of Prayer vespers service
was a well-done affair, except for its omitting any mention of the organizer of the service, Mr. George Kuykendall. It
was he who planned and created the program as well as writing and delivering the sermon. It might also be
mentioned, since the note to this effect was not in the printed program, that both prayers used in the service
were selected by Mr. Kuykendall from a collection of prayers by Soren Kierkegaard, and were not the original work of
any of the service's participants, as many students seem to have assumed. The printing of these omissions from Mr. Kimrey's
review would be greatly appreciated. W. Howard Cornelsen Davidson College. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any
reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250
words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be
printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed.
The mailing address is Box 216, Davidson, N.C. GIVE UP WHY CIO THE - BY: FELLINI'S LATEST Coming DC Flick
Called '8½ Revolution In Filming’ By SMITH McKEITHAN A Davidsonian Preview insights into our own lives, because of the film's
success, however, where both of these films do not, in that it gives us something which we can take away
from the theater and use in relation to our lives. If I sound self-contradictory here, an explanation of the motion
picture may help. Marcello Mastroianni plays the part of a film director who cannot decide what his next film will
be about, although the sets have already been constructed and the cast hired, and we see him examine much of
his life, past and present, in an attempt to come to grips with his predicament. Here we have the change
in critical values, for to the director, working within his film, the act of the film is more real than
the reality of going down to the corner pizza house for a snack or bedding up with his tailor. In
other words, we can say that within the film, art equals life: and the working out of Mastroianni’s artistic problem
is more real and of more concern to us than "God's Little Acre’s” poor treatment of a very real problem
or “Goldfinger’s” ma- terial handling of trivia. We may compare 8½ with Wordsworth's "The Prelude” in its importance and in
its method, for it speaks about an art in that art form. If we must say that it is “about”
something, we can characterize it as a film about a film, maker trying to make a film, with the emphasis
on the trying. Frederico Fellini, the real director who decided that this largely autobiographical motion picture was his eighth-and-a-half, gives
us a good point from which to return to our original statement, by saying, “In 8½, I began with the
idea of a man retreating from reality, and I wound up with a picture about a man confronting his problems
at once.” This is the clue as to why we take anything away behind this film about filmmaking. In his
movement from retreat to confrontation, Mastroianni objectively renders his subjective existence, and aims for a comprehensive account of himself in
order to create outside of himself by accepting his life; which includes his dreams, his past accomplishments, his wife and
his film public and this artistic exercise, he is able to review that life usefully. A note of warning can’t
solve 8½’s especially to be considered philosophy of psychotherapy. More than anything else, 8½ is the projecting of sights and
sounds upon a screen, and it operates on several, simultaneous levels. Many of its effects are so obvious, so easy
to see and hear, that we may lose their value if we intellectualize them. They should linger as sense experiences
before becoming stored items in the registry of our brains. Seeing 8½ receptively is an active participation in screen life
and it is through this participation in art that we may enrich our activity in life, because their respective realities
are complementary. 8½ will be shown at 8:15 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday nights in the Morrison Room. Amherst And
Greeks A subcommittee of the Amherst faculty, in a report urging a sweeping reorganization to make the college a genuine
intellectual community, has recommended that fraternities be replaced by a system of residential units. Each unit would be large enough
to develop a full range of student activities. These units, to be known as the Amherst societies, would combine, on
a geographical basis, clusters of existing fraternities and dormitories. Each would house between 80 and 130 upperclassmen and would have
a proportional number of non-resident freshmen members, thus ending the present policy of keeping freshmen segregated through their first year.
In recommending the change, the committee stressed that its emphasis was not on abolishing fraternities but on finding a way
to give relevance and unity to student education. “Our main complaint is that students have come to identify significant intellectual
life exclusively with the classroom performance as measured by grades," the report said. “They speak of themselves as divided between
their work and their social life. Many social institutions and extracurricular activities seem to have diminished in standards of excellence
and achievement of self-expression, and these values are now assigned to the classroom, if anywhere. As a result, non-academic, intellectual
and creative pursuits dwindle: the academic ones, in too many cases, lack enthusiasm and dedication.” In its early thinking, the
committee attempted to devise within the existing system of fraternities and dormitories reforms that might break down what one member
described “as the rigid separation of thought and pleasure." It finally concluded that fraternities at Amherst have become an anachronism,
that possibilities for their reform have been exhausted, and that they now stand directly in the way of exciting new
possibilities for student life. In recent years, all of the campus fraternities have attempted to reappraise their functions. Amherst fraternities
were among the first in the nation to eliminate racial and religious discrimination, to minimize the abuses of hazing and
rushing, and to establish the principle that all students should have the opportunity to join. In actual practice, only 96
per cent of the students lived in the fraternity houses last year; 74 per cent of the eligible students were
active members, and the remaining 26 per cent either resigned their membership or never became active. The faculty subcommittee points
out that the college already holds title to all but one of the existing fraternity dormitories buildings, in conjunction with
college dormitories. It would avoid the expense of constructing new facilities. The New York Times February 21, 1965
