FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1965

By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

WELCOME BACK

Jim Terry told me a couple of nights ago what he thought the four goals of the 1965 Wildcats were. “I think our first goal is to have a successful season, a winning season.

“Then, we want to be undefeated. That’s our second goal.

“Third is to be unscored on this year.

“Finally, we want to score as much as we can every game.”

Three weeks ago, mention of any one of Terry's “goals” would have brought snickers of laughter, torrents of sarcasm, and maybe, from somewhere on campus, pity for any idiot who would dare suggest the impossible might be possible. But that was three weeks ago.

It’s really too early to diagnose statistics and to compare years past with this year, but I'll take this opportunity to get the jump on the more conservative sports writers who have adopted the usual wait-and-see attitude.

The first of Terry's four goals is to win. The last winning season Davidson had was in 1958, probably before half of us heard of the school. The ’Cats were 5-4 then, with two one-point wins and one two-point victory (The Citadel, 8-6).

Secondly, Terry suggested we go undefeated. Since Davidson first played a four-game schedule in 1896, they have never been undefeated. In fact, the last time Davidson was unbeaten in its first three games was 1954, and the last time Davidson had three straight opening shutouts was in 1918, before even most of the professors here ever heard of the school.

As for Terry's third goal, an unscored upon team — it’s ridiculous to look in the record books, 'cause we haven't really come close (except in 1918, 47 years ago, when we played four games and gave up seven points to Clemson in game number four). The best our defense has done since I was born (1944) is to give up 74 points, which the 1954 Cats did in compiling our best record since 1933, a 6-3 mark.

Finally, Terry sets a goal to score as much as we possibly can. We have scored 73 points in our first three contests. Not since 1946 have we done as well as when we beat Erskine 74-0 in our opener and took Wofford 54-0 in the second contest. The last time we won two conference games was in 1958, and since the modern Southern Conference was formed in 1952, we have never won more than that.

I couldn’t say enough good about Davidson football now. Last year I couldn’t say any good about it. Nobody who claimed sanity would begin to suggest, or even hint, Davidson will be undefeated, untied, and unscored upon this season, and I do claim sanity. But then nobody who claimed sanity would have suggested we might have been undefeated, untied, and unscored upon in our first three games; after all, it had been 47 years since we did it before.

At any rate 'Cats, welcome back to the Southern Conference, the win column, even the football field. After 69 years, since 1896, Davidson’s footballers deserve Terry’s four goals.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Photo Courtesy The News and Courier)
WILDCAT COVER MAN GRUBER BREAKS UP CITADEL PASS
Davidson Defense Protected Unscored-On Record Last Saturday Night

‘Cats Claw Out Third Win, Shoot Up Pop-Gun Cadets
By ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Sports Editor

PAGE FIVE

24 CONSECUTIVE CONVERSIONS
By K. D. WEEKS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Jim Terry, the “toe” of the Wildcat's football team, booted two conversions in last week's victory over The Citadel, to bring his three-year total to 24, all consecutive, a new Southern Conference record.

“It's a fact — he’s the best (kicker) the conference ever had, and he might be the best in the country, we don't know,” praised Coach Homer Smith. “He is a very, very valuable member of the team.”

Already this fall, the senior, pre-med major, has kicked ten point-afters and one field goal. Not in his entire college career has he missed a conversion attempt. He has also been successful on six of his twelve field goal attempts. After being hurt as a halfback in his sophomore year, Terry decided to kick full-time. Now he practices his kicks for at least an hour every day and does normal conditioning with the rest of the team. When called on in a game, he is always ready; as Coach Smith says, “We never have to tell him to warm up. When we cross the fifty-yard line, he starts getting loosened up.”

When Terry kicks, he not only gets it through the uprights, but usually out of the stadium. One of his teammates quipped, “Last week in Charleston, Jim kicked one into a row of houses behind the Citadel's stadium.” This strength helps Terry in being an excellent kick-off man, too. The team has confidence in his ability, and relies on his conversions after their touchdowns. Quarterback Jake Jacobsen, who holds the ball for Jim's kicks says, “Jim works real hard at it. He wants to be good and he is. Terry himself is first to note, however, that “it takes twenty-two other offensive and defensive men to do the work before I get a chance to kick. And this year I have the best protection I’ve ever had.”

When asked about the kick itself, Terry explains that he uses a conventional style kick, with a square-toe shoe. “I square away with the tee and uprights, and don't look up,” he remarked, “and this year the new two-inch tee helps me get height on the ball.”

Concerning the record he has broken, Terry goes on to say, “I didn't know I was in sight of the record until a few days before the Citadel game, and I didn't think about it in that game until the announcer informed the crowd of the new record.”

Davidson’s no-longer surprising Wildcats methodically destroyed their third straight opponent, The Citadel, by a 14-0 score last Saturday night in Charleston. The game, which Coach Homer Smith described as “the sweetest” victory thus far this season, was a hotly contested affair between a pair of well-conditioned and expertly-coached teams. Unlike the past two games, however, this one was not decided until the waning minutes.

The Cadets took the opening kick-off and put the ball in play on the 33, but soon found the middle of the Davidson line the wrong place to attack and were forced to punt. The ‘Cats were unable to move the ball and when The Citadel took over they drove to the Davidson 21 in 14 plays. Pat Green's field goal attempt from the 26 was short of the mark. The ‘Cats took over at the 20 and moved to their 46 where they were forced to punt. Tommy Caldwell’s boot soared to The Citadel’s 22 where Bulldog halfback Francis Grant fumbled to Ken Kendall. The Wildcats moved to the 13 but were pushed back to a third and 15 situation on the 28 by a holding penalty. Halfback Billy Taylor then took a pitch-out and, rolling toward the sidelines, fired a 23-yard pass to ‘tweenerback Johnny Walker, who made a diving catch at the three. Taylor scored three plays later.

The game was a stand-off from then to the closing seconds. The Cadets sustained several drives deep into Davidson territory, but each time the Gurkhas were able to produce an effective defense.

Committee Selects Trainer Couch

Athletic Department Trainer Tom Couch here has been named to a national committee to draw up a Code of Conduct for college and university athletic trainers of the U.S. On the committee with him are Kenny Howard (chairman), Auburn University; Carl Nelson, Colby College; Dale Googins, Denison University; and Billy Pickard, Texas A & M. This committee will draw up a suggested code for trainers and submit it.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

It for approval to the National Association of College Trainers. Fresh from opening victories over Pembroke and Belmont Abbey, by 8-0 and 2-1 respectively, Coach Harry Fogleman’s undefeated booters face two of their toughest opponents this week, when N. C. State and Furman play here tomorrow and Tuesday. The most noteworthy of these plays came when Davidson tackler Joe Gaddy forced Grant to cough up the ball to Tupper Morehead at the 15. Belmont Abbey fell Wednesday 2-1 as the Browns, Gus and George, sparkled. Both goals were scored by Juergen Schroder to run his two-game total to six. The first came on a perfectly executed play by right wing Ben Nzengu. The second was almost a flying wedge as Steve Smith pushed across the score, his first of the season. When Jim Terry kicked the extra point it was the 24th consecutive success of his career, a new Southern Conference record. For their performance in the game, Morehead and Taylor were nominated for the Charlotte Observer's Lineman of the Week and Back of the Week, respectively. Coach Smith was selected by the paper as the Carolinas’ Coach of the Week.

Freshmen Footballers Fall In War With Baby Soldier

Davidson’s Wildkittens tackle a rugged Carolina Military Academy here at 2:00 p.m. today in an effort to get on the victory trail after a 26-6 setback incurred at The Citadel last week. Freshman coach Donald Campbell commented that although the score did not seem to indicate it, “the boys showed a lot of hustle. Any team which comes back to score a touchdown after being twenty points down has got to be hustling. The boys never gave up.” Lack of experience played a great part in the outcome of the game, and the coaches feel that the experience gained in that game will do much to strengthen the entire team. Asked if this experience will produce better results as the season progresses, Coach Campbell stated, “I think this was our main weakness, and we'll play better as we go along from now on.”

From all indications, Carolina Military Academy will prove to be a challenge, to say the least. Loaded with postgraduates, many of whom are older than some on the Davidson squad, they will be tough to stop. Coach Campbell related that C.M.A. beat Hargrave, from whom last year's squad barely eked out a victory on a late goal-line stand. Coach Campbell declined to mention any standouts on the team, as “each one has been doing a good job.” Spirit has been running extremely high during this week as the boys are out to win this one. Another tough game is slated next week when the frosh tangle with East Carolina, after which they get an open date. Three more contests are lined up following the break.

Sigs Stay On Top In IMAC

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This week's IMAC action saw the defending flickerball champions, Kappa Sigma, forge ahead of Homer Smith's Gurkhas by extending their 1965 winning streak to 4 games. The KA's fell victim to the Sigs on Monday by a 33-20 tally. Said Kappa Sig Tommy Reams, “We're doing all right so far, but we're looking for some good games — especially from the ATO's, the Betas, and the Phi Delts.” The SAE's went down to defeat twice this week — 7-6 to an inspired Sigma Chi team Monday and 18-15 to the ATO’s Wednesday. Commenting on the latter game, SAE Barry Bishop blamed first-half defensive lapses for the loss, while ATO Geoff Birkhead attributed his team’s success to “good team spirit and a tough defense.” In spite of the SAE’s two losses, their defensive unit nailed opponents for safeties in the 2 games.

In another Wednesday game, a revitalized Independent team staved off a Pika attack going “full blast” to win 21-20. The decisive minutes of the contest came midway in the second half when the Independents scored a 3-point safety and tallied again immediately afterward; the Pika kick-off was returned to pay dirt with the aid of a 30-yard pass by David Jennings. Down 21-14 at that point, the Pikas staged a comeback that culminated in a 35-yard touchdown run by Bob O'Kelly with 23 seconds left. However, the extra-point pass was batted down and the Independents then received the kick-off and ran out the clock.

On field 2 Wednesday, the Sig Eps, sparkled by two touchdown passes from David James to fleet halfback Danny Layman, slipped past the Pi Kapps 20-6. “Once again,” commented Sig Ep Scott Gabrielson, “our defense proved to be the deciding factor.” In a Monday contest, the Phi Delts defeated the Phi Gams and marked their third straight win. Speaking of the 12-7 victory, Ronnie Hunt said, “It was a really hard-fought game, but our defense came through. I think we'll be ready now for the Friday game with the Kappa Sigs.”

In freshman flickerball action, which is played primarily on Tuesday afternoons after drill, Cannon A (first and second floors) defeated Watts by one touchdown and Cannon B trounced East A, led by tailback Harry Hamil, 20-6. According to IMAC president Tommy Hunter, coordinator of the innovation, “The freshman season got off to a really fine start and a lot of interest is being shown.” Presently, the freshman games are being refereed by upperclassmen so that “freshmen can get the feel of the game before they start running the schedule entirely by themselves,” added Hunter.