FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1965

WAKE FOREST

By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

Between shouts of “Beast State” and the hollow thumping of basketballs against the hardwood court, Coach Lefty Driesell shouted orders to his somewhat green basketball squad. Last night Driesell led his predominantly sophomore squad against N. C. State in a closed scrimmage.

“We'll probably start Snyder and Lane at the wings, with Stone and Leight substituting,” Driesell prophesied. “Squier will play the point, with Hatcher as the main reserve here; Clifton and St. Clair will play some at the point, also. Youngdale and Knowles will play a double pivot. Leight will back them up, too.”

In less than two weeks Davidson’s attention will turn once more toward basketball as Wake Forest travels to the Charlotte Coliseum to face the ’Cats in the opening game for both teams. For the past three years the Wakies have been completely overshadowed by Hetzel and company, but this year could be different.

“We will have no chance at all to see them play this year,” Driesell moaned. “Usually we get to see their freshman-varsity game, but this year they called it off.”

With Bob Leonard and Pavi Long at the guards, both All-ACC material, and Leonard a shoo-in for some All-American teams, Wake Forest will be tough this year. With a new coach and the fact we haven't been able to scout them at all, Wake Forest will have a definite advantage in the element of surprise. But the Baptists lack height. We don’t. Even green, with enough effort and composure, Knowles and Youngdale should allow Davidson to control the backboards and the outcome.

NOTES AND QUOTES

Driesell will take his roundball hopefuls to Knoxville, Tenn. over the Thanksgiving holidays to scrimmage with the University of Tennessee.

Dr. Tom Scott on the new basketball bleachers being added at the south end of the court: “These permanent bleachers will hold less, but folks can see more ... and we won't be bothered by little kids falling through the seats.”

The Trustees recently ruled there will be no intercollegiate contests held on Sundays, which effectively sinks the sailing team, as most regattas are Saturday and Sunday affairs. In conjunction with “The Holy Ban,” the Trustees ruled that there will be no organized, compulsory Sunday practices in any athletics, this ends Coach Homer Smith’s football workouts. Our sailors and footballers may not be in as good shape or win as much under the new rule, but at least they will no longer be condemned to eternal hell, fire, and damnation ... truly a remarkable achievement by a small body of mortals.

Davidson should end its football season with two close victories, 21-7 over Wofford and 28-22 over Bucknell. But unless our offense snaps out of the lull it has been in ever since the Furman game, we will undoubtedly be wiped off the field by both of these teams. No defensive team can hope to hold their opponents when they have the ball for an entire half.

At 6:30 p.m., tomorrow, after the football and soccer games and before the concert, the freshmen meet the varsity basketballers in Johnston Gymnasium.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

JOHNNY WALKER MEETS LEHIGH LINEMAN
Carries Ball In Last Home Action

END YEAR THURSDAY
Gridmen Face Bisons

By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson will close one of its best seasons ever as host to the Bucknell Bisons on Thanksgiving Day in Charlotte. The game, billed as the Carousel Bowl, will match a Wildcat squad seeking to equal a Davidson record for wins in one season against last year’s Lambert Cup winners. Kick-off will be at 7:30 p.m.

Bucknell will resemble George Washington. They will try to drive the ball at the Gurkhas, mixing a sound running game with the accurate tosses of Bill Lerro to Little All-American end Tom Mitchell and Ron Kinsey. The offense usually deploys in an I-formation with a split end and flankerback. Overall, Bucknell will outweigh the ‘Cats by a few pounds per man. They complement this heft with good team speed and aggressiveness.

Captain Jeff Traub, a 225-pound center, will anchor a good offensive line, which paves the way for the talented running of tailback Bob Coons. Offensive spark is also generated by Lerro, a fine passer. But the major offensive threat is Mitchell. The 6-3 Pennsylvanian possesses exceptional speed and reach, and a knack for eluding a defender. Last year his 71 receptions smashed school records, and he is expected to go in the early rounds of pro football's draft.

Defensively, lineman Dean Stump heads an aggressive group that yields ground grudgingly. The Bisons hope to thwart Jimmy Poole’s passing with a strong defensive secondary. This game will mark the first meeting of the two teams on the gridiron. While the ‘Cats tackle Wofford tomorrow, Bucknell and Delaware will scrap for the Middle Atlantic Conference title.

Coach Smith flatly states that Bucknell will be superior to Lehigh or Lafayette. Although Davidson registered wins over both, the final football review for 1965 will be a tough contest.

VISIT HERE TOMORROW
Terriers Test 'Cats

By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's footballers meet an underrated Wofford squad at Richardson Field tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. in the Wildcats’ final home contest of the season. Coach Homer Smith regards Wofford as “far better than either of the two teams we played last, in that they are bigger and faster and have a much greater offense.” Their 35-13 victory over Furman evidences that.

The basis for the Terriers’ offensive excellence is what Wofford terms its “dream backfield.” Quarterback Warren Whitaker and halfbacks Ted Phelps and Bill Ellis have provided what Coach Smith terms “a most unusual offensive yardage production.” To say that the Terriers' main threat comes on the ground would be to miss the point, although their top backs are averaging over five yards per carry. Wofford’s attack is quite a diversified one, Whitaker leading the charge with over 1000 yards in total offense.

The Gurkhas could be put to another strong test after proving themselves again in last week’s victory over Lafayette. George Solley will be returning to the lineup after missing two games. Dick Short and Stu Perry remain on the injured list for tomorrow's game.

In reference to their game with Furman, Coach Smith remarked, “They looked much better throughout the game than Furman — quite a bit so. The score was a true picture of how they played.” Such was not the case later when they were defeated by Catawba, 29-26, although they gained about 450 yards.

Asked if Wofford’s week layoff before this, their final game, will have any effect pro or con, Coach Smith said, “They scheduled the layoff on purpose. Personally, I don’t think it helps or hurts, although they seem to feel that it helps. This is their big game.”

Wofford's record thus far is an impressive 5-3 with victories over Carolinas Conference champion Lenoir Rhyne, Frederick, Furman, Newberry, and Appalachian. Defeats have been incurred at the hands of Presbyterian, Catawba, and East Tennessee State.

Coach Smith emphasized the necessity that the Wildcats out-hit and out-hustle Wofford in order that they may cope with the size disadvantage. “Our main objective in every game is to win in hitting and hustling if not in outcome.”

FACE WAKIES IN OPENER
Lefty’s Legions Ready For Season

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Standing in a dressing room amid such signs as “Let’s get tough on defense!”, Coach Lefty Driesell of Wildcat basketball fame scratched his head and said noncommittally, “Practice is going about like usual, I guess. Of course, it’s hard to evaluate a team or its chances until they’ve actually played a game or so.”

Driesell, who has piloted Wildcat hardwood teams to two national rankings and a better than 71% success average, 91 victories against 37 defeats in five seasons here, was as usual, wary of making risky statements: “I don’t ever make predictions about basketball; I just like to say that we'll try to be on time for the game.”

“We've been practicing since October 15, working two hours every day. The most important part of good basketball is fundamentals, so in these practices we've been stressing things like ball-handling, defensive drills, and rebounding. We're just trying to get ready to play, that's all.”

FINAL UNOFFICIAL IMAC STANDINGS
Kappa Sigs _________..12-0
Betas __..._-___ 1
Sigma Chis _____....10-2
Phi Delts__.._...____. 9-3
ATO’s __ 8-4.
SAE’s .. 6-5
Pikas 2 «B-6'
Phi Gamms __.___. 4-7
Sig Eps _..... 4-8
KA's —-. 2-10
Indies __.. 2-10
Sigma Nus __....__.2-10
Pi Kapps ._..._____1-10.

Betas Top Also-Rans, Take Second

By JIM MARROW
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The fourth annual battle for second place ended this week as the Betas ran their record to 11-1 with victories over the KA’s, Nus and ATO’s. Fiery Arch McCallum led the late season spurt scoring three touchdowns in the final two games. After the KA’s fell, the Betas demoralized the Sigma Nus, 66-0. The climax of theGame came as notorious “Little Brother” Burch landed a slashing block on a fellow Nu. Both were treated at Preyer Infirmary. The ATOs began a comeback (after the Betas scored) that mysteriously coincided with the arrival of Terrible Tom Scott from the soccer field. Tailback Dave Townsend was outstanding in the Taus' effort. The Betas were without the services of star tweenerback Chip Vogan who forgot about the game. Geordie Mueller and the Sigma Chis closed fast with victories over the Phi Gamms, KAs, and Phi Delts to wrap up third place. In other games, the Delts took a decision from the Independents, the Phi Gamms edged the Pi Kapps, 21-14, and the Sigma Nus forfeited to the Pikas. The results of the important battle between the Pi Kapps and the Independents were not available. A loss for either team would mean last place in the final standings. The Kappa Sigs, who clinched the title a week ago, were idle. Their success this year was said to have been due to a splendid performance by rookie Steve Rostan. Tommy Reams, the big end, added that their success could also be attributed to their clean living.

The freshman league saw East B remain undefeated by Cannon A. Tailback Steve Faulk was outstanding in the win. A highlight of the game came as Faulk was trapped and threw in desperation to K. D. Weeks, who displayed amazing open field running before being downed at the goal. The play was called back because Weeks had come off the bench during the play.

Lefty went on to comment on his probable starting lineup for the season and mentioned that sophomores would be carrying a good deal of the load since four of the 1964 first-stringers — Don Davidson, Fred Hetzel, Charlie Marcon, and Barry Teague — graduated last spring. “Well, I guess you could say that Dick Snyder will probably start," he grinned, “and we're also likely to have Bobby Lane, Phil Squier, Rod Knowles, and either Tom Youngdale or George Leight on the first five. Of course, that list is not definite, and I think Pinky Hatcher, Ronnie Stone, Barry St. Clair, and Cecil Clifton will be playing a good bit of basketball for us, too.”

Driesell went on to comment about his first opponent, Wake Forest. “We won't know too much about Wake Forest before the opener on December 1 since it will be their first game of the season, too. We'll be playing an intrasquad game in Charlotte on November 27, but I don’t believe we'll be able to scout them at all," he mused. “They have some good boys, though, like Bob Leonard, who's a real fine athlete. There's also Paul Long, who played at VPI about two years back, I think; and Jim Boshart and Clark Poole, both of whom are real fine ball players,” he remarked.

Following the Wake Forest game in Charlotte, the ‘Cats will play 19 more games plus the Charlotte Invitational Tournament during the regular season. Of 22 games, seven will be in Charlotte at the Coliseum, seven will be in Johnston Gymnasium here at Davidson, and six will be on the road.

Wildcat 7 Tars Top SC Salts

The sailing team coasted to a 3-1 victory over USC at Davidson’s Lake Campus Saturday. It was the first home regatta for the 'Cats and the team demonstrated its familiarity with Lake Norman wind conditions with consistently good tactics and boat speed. Davidson jumped to a quick lead in the first of the four races and used what little wind there was to finish first, second, and fifth. The Wildcat team of Chip Robertson, skipper, and Chip Bellamy, crew, finished more than five minutes ahead of the next boat. In the second race, Davidson extended its lead. Joe Gardner, skipper, and Bob Dugger, crew, finished first for Davidson, and Tom Kirtley, skipper, and Yates Fletcher, crew, held second for the ‘Cats in a close finish. The third race was the only poor one for the local sailors. USC got a good start and held its lead throughout, but the ‘Cats came back in the fourth to take the necessary third win in the three out-of-five series. By beating the Gamecocks, last year’s champions, Davidson has won the right to hold the fall championship regatta on Saturday, Dec. 4. This will be sailed between Davidson and the winners of the Duke-Old Dominion and The Citadel-College of Charleston matches this weekend.

“The defense — magnificent!” These were the words of Coach Homer Smith as he described the “Gurkhas,” Davidson’s defensive unit, and their second-half effort to stymie the surging Leopards of Lafayette there Saturday. Lafayette drew first blood with a 20-yd. field goal, but Davidson came back to score twice in the second quarter. The ‘Cats capitalized on a Buddy Newsome pass interception with Steve Smith scoring on a four-yd. plunge. Later in the same quarter, Jimmy Poole marched the ‘Cats 56 yards, culminating the drive with a nine-yard pass to end Ken Kendall in the end zone. The second half found the Leopards able to move the ball well between the two 20-yard lines. They controlled the game for all but four series of downs, and they managed to score on a 25-yd. run late in the third quarter to make the score 14-10. Davidson’s second-half strategy summed up was ball control, not to fumble and not to let them intercept a pass. At this, the ‘Cats succeeded but at the expense of marking only one first down. About the second half, Coach Smith said, “Lafayette knew we wouldn't throw. They were in their goal-line defense the whole second half with the toughest man-to-man coverage. If we had the game to play over again, we would play the second half quite differently.” The highlight of the game was the Gurkhas’ goal-line stand. With the score 14-10 in the latter minutes of the fourth quarter and with a first and goal on the nine and then second and goal on the three, Lafayette was unable to score in the next three plays. On fourth down and three to go, the Leopards tried an end sweep, a play that has been very successful against the 'Cats this year. The runner was met by a wall of seven Davidson defenders before the referee could blow his whistle.

Booters Top Paladins, 3-1 Take Tourney’s Opener

By DOUG CRISP Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s soccer team defeated Furman yesterday, 3-1, in the first round of the Southern Conference Soccer Tournament being held here on campus. “We played real well and got back to scoring a little, which we hadn’t done in the last few games,” remarked Coach Harry Fogleman after the game. “The whole forward line played a great game,” he added. “I really couldn't single out any one person; it was a fine team effort.” Saturday, the Wildcat booters whipped Emory, 3-0, in Atlanta. The Eagles were previously undefeated in 10 games. “That was another team effort,” Fogleman mused. “We used everyone on the bench.” West Virginia and George Washington are co-favorites to grab the first annual conference championship in soccer in the round-robin tournament being held here through tomorrow. The team or teams with the best record in the tourney will be declared Southern Conference co-champions in soccer. “The Southern Conference has now recognized soccer as an official sport and this conference championship is the beginning of more emphasis on soccer,” pointed out host coach Fogleman.

SC SOCCER TOURNEY

THURSDAY
Davidson vs. Furman 3:00

FRIDAY
George Washington vs. W. Va. 9:30
Davidson vs. W&M 11:00
Furman vs. W. Va. 12:00
Davidson vs. GW 2:00
Furman vs. W&M 3:30

SATURDAY
W. Va. vs. W&M 9:30
Furman vs. GW 11:00
Davidson vs. W. Va. 1:00
GW vs. W&M 3:00

Harriers Finally End Long Season

The Davidson cross country squad, posting a disappointing 2-5 record for the season, closed out the year seventh in a field of eight in the Southern Conference Tournament at West Virginia Monday. “Our record is certainly nothing to brag about,” commented Coach Heath Whittle. “But the boys worked very hard this year and I'm proud of their effort.” Team captain Andy Little received an Honorable Mention from the All-Conference team. Remarked Little, “I might have made the All-Conference team if I had not made such a poor showing at the Southern Conference Tournament. Cold air was our biggest obstacle at the conference tourney,” said Little. “I had good position and felt fine for the first mile, but after that, the cold air got to my lungs. It really made a difference.” Little placed 22nd to lead the Davidson entries. Next year, Coach Whittle will again be faced with an inexperienced squad. Little is a senior, and two sophomores, Bobby Myers and Jim McLaughlin, plan to study in Europe next year. Whittle hopes to build a team from the freshmen. The yearlings, led by Mike Moats, Randy Phillips, and Ed Kopp, chalked up a 3-4 record.