PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1965

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Davidson’s athletic department and biology department are the chief beneficiaries of the recommendations made by the Physical Plant Self-Study Committee in the Self-Study Report issued this week. Major additions to Johnston gymnasium and construction of a campus golf course, a new guest house, a new college union, a limnological laboratory, and a greenhouse for the biology department, are the major recommendations of the committee, in addition to endorsement of a new library, an item which was left to the Library Committee to explore in detail.

The committee reiterated the position previously taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN and others that an addition should be added on the north side of Johnston Gymnasium, which would include three more basketball courts on the upper floor, several handball courts on the lower floor, and additional storage space and locker facilities.

ATHLETIC ADDITIONS

The Physical Plant group also suggested an increase in the seating capacity of the gym, installation on Richardson Field of adequate lighting for night football, construction of a roof 70 yards by 72 feet in the area back of East Stadium for use of athletic teams during inclement weather, and construction of an eighteen-hole golf course on the site of the farm area owned by the college on the north edge of the campus.

Although there are adequate justifications for the construction of these facilities, as have been presented by Athletic Director Tom Scott and others in the past, the committee failed in its report to present the justifications for their recommendations, limiting itself to an objective of existing facilities and to presenting no reasons for adding new ones.

The same shortcoming of the committee exists with regard to the advocation of construction of a greenhouse and limnological laboratory on the Lake Campus. Nowhere in the report are these needs presented and supported, except for the one sentence recommendations at the end of the report.

GUEST HOUSING

In recommending a new guest house the committee did point out the need for “a larger number of rentable rooms for transients and excellent dining facilities.” In its description of Ovens College Union, the committee did depart from its general policy on not commenting on the adequacy of the facilities by stating that, “For the present enrollment and program of activities, this building is considered fairly adequate.”

However, although this is all it has to say about the present union, the committee recommends “that plans be made soon for the construction of a more spacious and attractive College Union.”

REPORT’S WEAKNESS

The recommendations of the committee are feasible and do

IFC Sets New Silence Period

The Interfraternity Council discussed the upcoming rush parties, set a new period of silence and made plans for the National Interfraternity Conference at its meeting Monday night. The entire IFC plans to attend the national conference Dec. 1-4 in Washington, D.C. Some of the areas which the council will investigate are IFC organization, financing and authority, systems of delayed rush, pledge program standards and methods of communication between fraternities and faculty.

The schedule for picking up and returning redates was established. The freshmen will pick up their redates next Mon-

59 Students Accepted On Early Decision Plan

Fifty-nine members of the Class of 1970 were accepted this week on the Early Decision Plan, H. Edmunds White, director of admissions, has announced. Of the 120 applications, White said, the remaining applicants were deferred for consideration under the regular plan.

The plan is for high school seniors who “have good grades, test scores, recommendations and extracurricular activities and who are certain they want to attend Davidson,” according to the college catalogue.

One member of the group is Charlie Scott, a senior at Laurinburg Institute. Scott was recruited by Coach “Lefty” Driesell as a member of next year’s freshman basketball team. White also pointed to two other future freshmen who had attracted Driesell’s interest with their basketball prowess: Jan Postma from Marianna, Fla., and Jerry Krowell from Houston.

James Puckett, son of Dr. W. O. Puckett, R. J. Reynolds professor of biology, was also in the group. Puckett is valedictorian at North High School and a member of the state champion cross country team.

“We are glad to have this plan,” White said. “It's good for both us and the boys. From our point of view, we've already got 22 per cent of our class determined. From their point of view, it relieves a lot of their worries to already know where they're going to school.”

Approximately 10 members of the group, or 17 per cent, are from out of state, a figure roughly comparable to last year’s group. There were 121 applicants and 65 acceptances in the Class of '69.

day in the lobby of Chambers and will return them by 8 p.m. Monday to ballot boxes which will be set up in Chambers and in the College Union.

A change was made in a period of silence. There will be no period of silence over the concert weekend as originally scheduled. A period of silence will, instead, begin at 8 a.m. Monday, and will last until 8 a.m., Nov. 29.

Because of the change, the dorm rush previously planned for the afternoon of Nov. 23, was changed to Nov. 30. It was pointed out that during a period of silence, a fraternity man may not pick up a hitchhiking freshman, even after 11 p.m.

The decision was also made that the redate parties operate like rush parties in previous years. Freshmen will be picked up at their dorm, walked from party to party and walked back to their dorm by fraternity members.

The consensus of the IFC in regard to the rush party held last Saturday on Freshman Parents Day seemed to be that it was a success. Tom Brown, IFC treasurer and Pi Kappa Alpha representative, remarked, “I thought that it wasReal good. It gave the parents a good opportunity to see a fraternity system which is certainly unique among fraternity systems. It also may have helped to dispel some ideas of fraternities as "dens of iniquity." Most of the parents seemed pretty impressed.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Modern Reasonable
THE OAKS MOTOR COURT
344 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C. 28115
Owners and Mgrs. Bill and Hezel Sprinkle
Telephone 663-5693

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK
1860 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

For Good Food and Pizza
THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT
Mooresville, N. C.
The Headquarters Of Davidson College Students
Visit The Connoisseur For Good Food and Pleasant Service.

Present what are probably valid needs; yet the total failure of the committee to even begin to state why the needs are valid certainly presents a major weakness in the report. The report does note in its study of instrumental facilities that "classroom and laboratory space does not seem to be a problem," that office space is "excellent" and that "major improvements" are needed for Chambers Building, including more electrical outlets, better light control equipment, and a remedy for the "extremely poor" ventilation.

Dormitory space is adequate for Davidson’s student body, the report notes, but its statement that "married housing is not good" is at the least a vast understatement. The committee described the college's possessions in this field of only four three-room housing units, known to some occupants as "The Cardboard Village," but fails to propose any solution to the poor housing situation.

The report also presents a list of parking lot capacities, which if totaled, show that there are over 50 more cars with student permits than there are student parking places, even when the impractical parking area across the street from the fine arts building is included.

PARKING PROBLEMS
Noting, "If these cars were on the campus at the same time, parking would be a serious problem," the committee evidently failed to recognize that most of these cars are often on the campus at the same time and that parking is in fact a pretty bad problem. The report does give a fairly complete description of Davidson’s existing physical plant and does present some good recommendations, but the failure to discuss fully the shortcomings and needs of the physical plant hamper to a great extent the effectiveness of the report.

The Physical Plant Committee was chaired by Dr. Tom Scott, and included faculty members R. T. Barber, E. E. Brown, J. Y. Causey, D. G. Houchens, W. N. Mebane, W. E. Meeks, O. J. Thies, and G. M. Williams.

Moving your body around is highly inefficient. If communications were perfect, you would never have to. Of course, you would still have to get exercise. But that's your problem. We want to make it easier for you to contact people, learn, get information, attend lectures, and hold meetings.

(Photo by Lesesne)
CHALMERS FONDLES HISTORIC AXE
From Left to Right: Dr. Davidson, Charles Pelham, Dr. Peter D. Pelham, and President D. Grier Martin

UNIQUE SPECIMEN
College ‘Gets The Axe’ From Davidson History
By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

President D. Grier Martin literally got the axe Wednesday afternoon. "The axe" is a broadaxe dating from the time when Davidson was founded by Presbyterians in days of yore. Dr. Peter Pelham presented it to the college, and it was accepted by Dr. Martin and Dr. Chalmers Davidson in a brief ceremony in Martin’s office. Dr. Pelham is a descendant of Maj. John Davidson, whose daughter, Betsy Lee, married her cousin William Lee Davidson, on whose land the college is located. Dr. Pelham is now president of Mount Vernon Seminary in Washington, D. C. Dr. Pelham's father, Charles Pelham, was also present at the ceremony.

Dr. Davidson explained the significance of the instrument: "Dr. Pelham, being a collateral descendant of the family who gave the land for Davidson College, had in his possession a broadaxe which originally belonged to Maj. John Davidson and which was traditionally used to hew the logs for the original buildings of the college."

According to Dr. Davidson, the axe is also of interest as a specimen of the earliest manufacture practiced in this area. "The broadaxe represents the first important industrial development in western North Carolina," Davidson explained. "Major John Davidson was one of the original developers of the ore in Lincoln County and chiefly through his energy and ability built up an exceptionally useful and profitable industry. The early fortune of such families as the Davidsons were based on this industry. The Lincoln County furnaces and forges furnished cannonballs for the War of 1812."

It seems, then, that Davidson may owe its existence to that broadaxe in more ways than one. In any case, the college has added a unique and interesting item to its collection of Davidsoniana.

Depending on the nature of the information, he might get his answer back audibly, printed on a teletypewriter, as a video image, or a facsimile print. Some of these services are available now. Others are being tested. For the next week or so, better get a move on.

* Service mark of the Bell System
Bell System
American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies