Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Import Yet To Be Seen

Davidson’s faculty has compiled an interesting and fact-filled document which was released this week as the college’s first self-study report. Student interest in the report—a hefty, 257-page publication—has been keen all week. Faculty interest, of course, has been acute also, for each professor was familiar with only the portion of the report which he aided in compiling.

But the value in the self-study cannot be measured in the interest it arouses in the college community. Nor can it be gauged in the amount of time that went into the preparation of the volume. Nearly two years of writing, figuring, surveying, and listening on the part of every faculty member at Davidson has gone into the background of the volume. Neither can an accurate mensuration of the study’s impact here come from the comments and evaluations of the delegation of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools which visited the campus for three days this week.

What will prove to be the best indicator of the value of Davidson's first such self-study will be the dispatch with which the college uses in implementing the recommendations of the report.

We do not expect a metamorphosis overnight because of the release of the report; yet, we would hope to see smiles over the appearance of the book be turned into looks of determination for implementing each of the suggestions. Adequate funds must be found before most of the items can be effected. This does not forestall, however, the beginning of study by the Board of Trustees into each item mentioned in the report. Specific adjustments in the administrative structure of the college can and should be effected right away. We hope, too, that the appropriate Trustee committees will consider the specific chapters of the report in order that forward action may be possible at the next meeting of the board.

We commend the faculty—particularly the executive secretary of the self-study, Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, and the committee chairmen—for the determined effort which has resulted in the sound recommendations of the report. We reiterate again, however, that the true value of the self-study has not yet been realized. Only when the full resources of the college are geared toward the prompt implementation of these goals can the real import of this self-analysis be seen.

With Relief

Well-thinking citizens across the state of North Carolina can well manage a sigh of relief this week after long-overdue amendments to the notorious speaker-ban law were approved by the General Assembly Wednesday. No amount of legislative bickering or political ameliorations can cover up for the ingratuitous slap-in-the-face which was presented to the leaders of state-supported colleges by the lawmakers in the closing minutes of their 1963 session.

North Carolina, which was proudly leading the way for the Southern states through the ridicule thrown from all sides by pro-integration radicals, suddenly stumbled over her own shortcomings and began to face humiliation from her sister states to the south as well. Just how much the state’s college students were affected is a debatable point. But the scars of derision which were rained on students and educators alike during the notorious speaker-ban era cannot be erased simply by the process of amendment.

The success of this week’s special legislative session can be seen as a victory for the administration of Gov. Dan K. Moore. The governor's political strategy in the appointment of a special commission to study the speaker ban was questioned by many this summer, but his wisdom was evidenced this week in the sound reasoning behind the commission's call for amending the disreputable legislation.

Although Davidson was not affected by the law, we have a definite interest in safeguarding the avenues of academic freedom and inquiry for every student and teacher. Students and professors here have actively voiced their opposition to the speaker ban. Davidson’s chapter of the American Association of University Professors initiated a program calling for the repeal of the law. The local AAUP’s study has resulted, as THE DAVIDSONIAN reported last week, in a series of articles on academic freedom of expression.

The policy covering the visits of controversial speakers to the state’s campuses will be formulated once again by the trustees and educators and not by politically-minded lawmakers. Although such policy was adopted under pressure on many campuses this week, the responsibility of these educators was reaffirmed by the amending of the law. Most of all, the action was an expression of well-deserved confidence in the maturity and sense of responsibility in the majority of today’s college students.

The Hazards Of Romance

If Patrick J. Nugent isn’t sorry he ever even heard of Luci Baines Johnson, then he must really be in love with her. He is the 22-year-old Marquette University graduate who was all but married by the press to the President's younger daughter one weekend. All the papers said he and Luci went down to the LBJ ranch to get the matrimonial go-ahead from the Chief Executive. Friends say 18-year-old Luci “cares deeply” for Nugent, and wants to marry him. Nugent hasn’t said anything except “my private life is my own, and so is Luci’s.”

Bravo for Nugent. His private life certainly is his own and we’re just as tired of reading about it as he is having it published. Mostly, we feel sorry for him. If reports of the romance are accurate, we think he was doing LBJ a big favor by offering to take Luci off his hands before she becomes an old maid of 19. Big Daddy Johnson apparently said, “Wait a while.” It is most convenient that Nugent will not have to waste that time while he waits. He’s being called into military service next month. Amazing coincidence.

Associate Editors ........ RUFUS ADAIR, JOHNNY CLARK, TOM CRAIG, MICHAEL HARRINGTON
Managing Editors ....... BILL AITKEN, DONALD DAVIS, LOUIS LESESNE, PAUL MARION
Assistant Managing Editor ... TOM COOK
Assistant Editors .......... SAM BOYTE, HEYWARD CARTER, CHRIS HAWK —The Daily Tar Heel
Assistant Copy Editors .. BOB VANCE, DICK SPENCER
Sports Editor ....._—---—-.-. BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor ....... ARCH McCALLUM
Photography Editor ........ TOM THEL
Photographer ..........____-. CHIP PURVIS
Cartoonists ........... LOU HILL, JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager ....... BOB CAMERON
Advertising Manager ......... BILL WATSON
Circulation Manager ....... JOHN VISER

Contributors This Week: Bob Reid, Doug Crisp, Chip Robertson, Jim Marrow, Bill Siegler, Steve Brown, Cliff Duke, Yates Faison, Bill Richmond, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen, Bob Schofield, Grey Pash, John Williams, Carter Fussell, Peter Guerrant, Price Cameron, Bob Travers, Kern Parker, Ted Winter, Mason Stephenson, Mike Powell, Craig Wilson, Bruce Weihe, Mike May, and Al Varner.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Former Court Chairman Disputes Trotter

Dear Editor:

As a former member of the Honor Court I was annoyed by Mr. Trotter's diatribe of November 5 against the Court despite the fact that he meant “no slur on any Honor Court member past or present.” His reminiscences of Court atrocities appear to have been snatched from floating rumors, cultivated with a vivid imagination, and based in a few cases, on a minuscule of fact. The fact, however, taken out of context is distorted. In the irresponsible piece of penmanship by Mr. Trotter, it appears that the only thing he advocates is criticism—destructive not constructive, at that.

Contrary to Mr. Trotter’s assertion that the main purpose of the Honor Court is “to project the school's bloated and fraudulent public relations image” the objective of the Court is to set the standard of student conduct and to create and maintain an atmosphere of honesty. (Mr. Trotter seems to be searching for a cause: perhaps, he might consider this one.) The Court is not a faculty extension and it operates, except in the case of an appeal, without faculty intervention. It is a council of students elected by their peers to promote an awareness of the honor system.

Unfortunately, it falls the lot of the Court to hear and try cases of suspected violations of the system. In this instance there is an empathy between the student-Court and student-defendant, and a sense of humility not “megalomania” is pervasive. The “dirty atmosphere” mentioned by Mr. Trotter is not generated by the Court, but in the fact that it is the Court's responsibility to deal with some irresponsible persons. One remembers that only a few years ago that he found himself fruitfully aligned with a positive cause bigger than himself. One remembers long meetings where improvements were suggested and incorporated and concepts heatedly thrashed out. There was no time “to create offenders in a dull season.”

Howard Arbuckle III ‘64

Richards

Dear Editor:

For various reasons I have been delayed in giving a careful reading to the issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN which appeared on October 22, 1965. I trust, however, that it is not too late for me to comment on the Report concerning the Trustees which appeared in that publication.

Salutatory Greetings

In the first place I would express appreciation for your action in thus interpreting the work of the Trustees to your readers. There is a continued need for the Trustees and the Students of Davidson to know and understand one another better. I am grateful for the accuracy with which Mr. Lesesne reported the substance of my interview with him in this connection. There is one point, however, at which I would like to clarify the statements.Made concerning the Trustees. In two different articles on that page, reference is made to the Trustees as the “Legal Owners” of Davidson. While this phrase is technically correct, and while it is partially explained in the articles, it may also carry implications which should not remain unchallenged. A trustee, as defined by the Oxford Universal Dictionary, is “one to whom property is entrusted for the benefit of another; often loosely, one of a number of persons appointed to manage the affairs of an institution.” Management as a trust is the real function of these men, who own nothing of the college for themselves. In the case of Davidson, the trust is one given by the Presbyterian Church, U.S. The Trustees of Davidson are not a self-perpetuating group. More than three-fourths of their number are elected by the constituent presbyteries. The twelve Alumni Trustees, whose election has been authorized by the Presbyteries, must also be members of some Evangelical Church and upon assuming office must declare their intention to be “faithful in promoting the purpose of the College and in seeking to increase its effectiveness as an institution of Christian learning.”

The Trustees of Davidson hold the property of the college only as legally elected representatives of the church. They have neither a moral nor a legal right to use that property for purposes other than those which are approved by the church. It is rather their responsibility to deliberate and decide as to the policies by which the great ends for which the college was established may best be attained, and to choose the administrative officers and faculty members whom they believe best qualified to execute those policies. Any procedure other than this would constitute a breach of the trust which has been committed to them. These are principles which need to be clearly understood by Trustees, Faculty Members, and Students alike.

J. McDowell Richards
(Dr. Richards is president of the Davidson College Board of Trustees)

---

Hill Committee Head Clarifies Football Scheduling Policy

Dear Editor:

There are certain aspects of Mr. Arch McCallum’s article on “football scheduling” in THE DAVIDSONIAN, Friday, November 12, 1965, which need to be clarified before all sorts of rumors get started. According to the decision of the Davidson College Trustees at their Spring meeting, 1965, all intercollegiate athletic schedules must be approved by the Faculty Athletic Committee. The Committee membership includes The President, Dr. Martin, the Director of Athletics, Dr. Tom Scott, and five members of the Faculty. The Director of Athletics handles the actual scheduling through his office.

The football schedule is a frequent topic for discussion at the meetings of the Faculty Athletic Committee. In particular, the type of opponent on the football schedule is examined more closely than is the case in any other sport at Davidson. Recommendations for opponents are made by the Head Football Coach, Mr. Smith, but all seven members of the Committee make suggestions and comment at length on types of desirable football opponents. The Faculty Athletic Committee has agreed that Davidson should be willing to play any other member of the Southern Conference, and should attempt to schedule the strongest teams in the Conference, including West Virginia. Any other policy would be an admission that Davidson does not belong in the Southern Conference. In addition, the Committee has also agreed that non-conference foes should be selected very carefully, and should reflect the “colleges similar to Davidson” principle. Obviously, the latter approach complicates Dr. Scott's scheduling efforts and cannot always be observed. It is also accurate to say that the Committee has shown a willingness to consider a “big name” college as an occasional opponent, but at no time has the Committee shown any interest in what the general public would call a “big-time” football schedule.

Incidentally, the negotiations with Colgate University, which are not yet complete for a game in 1970, were initiated as the result of a suggestion from within the Faculty Athletic Committee itself. In my several years as Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, I have found the members of the Committee to be very realistic in their approach to scheduling football opponents. It is my personal opinion that the Committee will continue to affirm the football scheduling principles mentioned above.

Paul A. Marrotte, Chairman
Faculty Athletics Committee

---

Wooten

Dear Editor:

Not the least admirable quality of Davidson is, after all, that of remaining insensible to logic; holding out for considerable periods, ten years or more, as in this controversy about ROTC, after all arguments and shadow of arguments have faded away from it, till the very urchins on the street titter at the arguments it brings. Logic—the “Art of Speech”—does indeed speak so and so; clear enough: Davidson still shakes its head; will see whether something else ILLOGICAL, not yet “spoken,” not able to be “spoken,” do not lie in the business, as there so often does! It is so old, say you? Yes, and the hotter haste ought you, of all others, to be in to let it grow no older!

—Thomas Carlyle, Present, adapted.

Cecil W. Wooten, II
Montpellier, France

---

Beck

Dear Editor:

It was with troubled souls that all Davidson men here received the news of the recent weakening of that rule which has worked steadily and effectively to help preserve Davidson's “best small college in the South” standing. This was especially disheartening in the light of our current effort to convince the students and faculty at Philipps-Universitat of the evil and danger of permitting the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the campus and in the town of Marburg.

Karl Beck
Marburg, W. Germany

---

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

---

Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

TRIPPING AROUND THE PUNGI STICKS in Vietnamese jungles appeals to very few students here at Davidson. But unless the situation changes drastically, a few of us may see those jungles fairly soon—a prospect resulting in a few thoughts on Viet Nam and the draft.

OUR PRESENT DRAFT SYSTEM bothers me. A smart college student can plan his career so that he is virtually exempt from the draft. The boy who doesn’t go on to school has much difficulty getting a job, gets yanked out of jobs, and is nearly always drafted. Meanwhile, his college counterpart sits nice and easy and avoids military service.

What this amounts to is class and economic discrimination. And it’s pretty sickening to hear so many college men brag about how they're going to beat the draft. What would be far more equitable would be to require two years of military service for all men physically and mentally able before they are 35, married or unmarried, college students or garbage collectors. This might be a chance for a few more college men to demonstrate their patriotism and make Selective Service more equitable.

---

THIS VIET NAM DEAL shows once again how middle-of-the-road policies get kicked by everybody. Why should we keep trying to defend our presence in Viet Nam on moral grounds? We are in there for strategic reasons and these are justifications enough. I hate to see people get hurt anywhere in the world, but peace-at-any-cost is worthless. Yet let's avoid a nuclear strike on Hanoi and Peking for humanitarian reasons, if there is any other way to effectively protect 300 years of attempts toward liberty, justice, and social cohesion.

---

WHO KNOWS which group is more annoying—the “True American” boys or the Vietniks? If one more military man or professional patriot tells me that the Vietniks and other dissenters are yellow dogs and not fit to be Americans, I think I will howl. (Though I can understand the soldier's feelings a little better than those of some of the pot-bellied ignoramuses that seem to abound in the area around here and write letters to the editor.) These folks forget that freedom to dissent—and indeed peaceful dissension itself—is one of our basic objectives, as well as a liberty to protect.

On the other hand, there are the Vietniks of all shapes, sizes, and beards: they see no inconsistencies in themselves at all. Parading through the streets in the day, shrilly proclaiming the US’s moral bankruptcy and absolute tyranny—returning safely to their pads that night—both their persons and their right to dissent protected by a police force, a military structure, and three hundred years of personal liberty. Their claim to moral self-righteousness would be ludicrous if it were not pathetic.

---

RE MY LAST COLUMN: I have no objections to students and professors with beards, briefcases, and shoulder-length hair—contrary to popular interpretation. What bothered me was the attitude of some individuals meeting this description: their belief that they alone are the “true lovers-of-knowledge” and spirits of the college. The athletes, pre-meds all have something to offer, valuable and worth our interest—and they are something more than animals or technicians. Likewise, the non-athletes and non-pre-meds are not just fruits and vegetables.

What I objected to was the automatic categorizing and name-calling that passes for discussion around here (which ironically enough, I seem to have mimicked). Please, no more brickbats and hurt feelings.

---

by Johnny Hart

Just one time... if I could make a fist!