PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1965

FT. LEAVENWORTH, KAN. Partridge To Be Moved

By MIKE MAY
Davidson Feature Writer

The ROTC Department is losing one of its best-liked members at the end of this year. Major Charles C. Partridge
will leave for Ft. Leavenworth, Kans., after this, the final year of his three-year tour of duty at Davidson.

Now a reporter entirely inexperienced in the ways and wiles of military scientists is unable to be in something of
a quandary as to just what to expect. Partridge must have felt the same way about reporters. Soon he was
convinced that his fate was sealed and that it really couldn't be that bad anyway.

After normal pleasantries his first remark was, “Well, I hate to get into THE DAVIDSONIAN.” He immediately sets one at
ease. This quality is one to which his students will readily attest.

CADETS COMMENT

It quickly became apparent that Partridge is an easy man to get along with. “He's really a fine fellow,” and,
“He's a great guy,” are typical reactions. As one cadet explained, “He takes a lot of interest in everybody. He
knows everybody by name and works hard to make the classes interesting. He’s got a lot of enthusiasm for the
Army, but he's not so gung-ho that he makes you sick. Everybody likes him.”

Partridge himself seemed to feel the same way toward Davidson. He said that he liked the place very much from
a personal standpoint. He was also enthusiastic about Davidson gentlemen from a professional standpoint. “With a high-quality student you get
a high-quality officer.” He indicated that he felt that ROTC is good for Davidson as well as Davidson for ROTC.
Asked if he thought the program is really valuable to the school, Partridge said, “Yes, I definitely do. Now you
want me to tell you why.” Well, in his opinion “the ability to teach is at least as important if
not more important than publishing in the hiring and promotion of faculty members.”

Of course, Partridge has many interests outside the army. He is a bachelor with an active social life, town of
Davidson notwithstanding. He drives an Austin-Healey, helps with a cub scout pack, and is a sailing enthusiast. According to one
of his most ardent fans, “He's a guy that has all the connections.”

Partridge began teaching MS I classes and has moved up in years to MS III and MS IV. Thus he
has taught many of the same cadets for three years. “Things just worked out that way,” he said, claiming no
hand in the arrangements. Anyway, it seems that none of his students were unhappy about the turn of events.

Craig And McBryde Awarded Internships

Neill McBryde and Eddie Craig have been awarded grants for the United States Department of State Summer Intern Program and
the Cleveland Summer Internship Program, respectively.

McBryde, a rising senior, is among 40 juniors, seniors, and graduate students to participate in the fifth annual State Department
program. He will begin duties at the Department of State July 1 and work through Sept. 10. There he will
be assigned, along with other students, to advanced ROTC.

Craig, also a rising senior, has been selected to participate in the Cleveland Ohio Area Summer Internship Program in Public
Administration. This grant is open to juniors who are interested in a public service career. In the previous years of
the program, the interns will participate in weekly seminars held by political leaders and outstanding career administrators. Each intern will
work with a high-level administrator and will have an opportunity to observe the science, processes, and art of public administration
first hand. Craig, who was selected on the basis of his academic achievement.

Goodykoontz Stirs Up Controversy At UNC

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The situation of Dr. William F. Goodykoontz, a former Davidson professor of English, has stimulated a “publish or perish” controversy
at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Hired on a per annum basis for the past two years as a lecturer in English, Goodykoontz learned this spring
that his contract had not been renewed for next year. The head of the English Department, Dr. George Harper, told
UNC's student newspaper, the Daily Tar Heel, that Goodykoontz (who is 51) had not published enough, was too old to
start off in the department, and was a controversial teacher.

PUBLISHED MATERIAL

Concerned that the university hired teachers according to the amount of their published material rather than their effectiveness in the
classroom, an organization called “Students for Teachers” formed last week with three goals to guide it: (1) to find out
why Goodykoontz was not rehired (2) to get a statement from the administration on the ‘publish or perish’ policy (3)
to find a way in which the students may have a voice in whether a teacher is to be rehired
or released.”

Leaders of SFT were the president of the men’s honor council, the student body president, a former student body president,
and a former editor of the student newspaper. The student legislature passed unanimously a resolution which asked Chancellor Paul Sharp
to state the university’s position: “In our opinion the ability to teach is at least as important if not more
important than publishing in the hiring and promotion of faculty members.”

RESEARCH

The chancellor said in reply that a university was not only a place for teaching, but also a place for
research and for public service. “If (a professor) does not do all these things, the well goes dry.” He also
pointed out that many professors had been promoted simply because they were good teachers. The student newspaper noted this last
point, and said that the question should be, “What is the real reason for not retaining this man? There are
simply too many nonpublishing professors in high positions here to believe for a minute that an English lecturer would not
be rehired because he has not published.” A columnist suggested that Goodykoontz's teaching methods were too controversial. “He often exercised
the minds of his students with criticisms of the University itself. Agree or disagree, he makes people think. And what
could be more essential to the learning process?”

SIDESTEP

In a rally Monday, attended by about 200 students, the SFT was praised for its enthusiastic point of view.In 1933,
he is currently a professor of philosophy and culture in the graduate school at Drew University, Madison, N.J. A frequent
contributor to religious and secular journals, he is the author of five books including Judaism and Modern Man, The Writings
of Martin Buber, Four Existentialist Theologians, Community, State, and Church, and Protestant-Catholic-Jew. This last work was part of the freshman
orientation reading program in 1963.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet question. "Let’s put it this way," he continued. "This department is the only one whose primary
function is team. He is also an officer in work as an assistant in one of the regional bureaus of
the department, or in the Bureaus of International Organization Affairs, Intelligence Research, and the Executive Secretariat.

STUDY INCLUDED

In addition to their substantive duties in the Department of State, the summer interns will participate in a program of
lectures and seminars, and will be encouraged to organize informal meetings with senior officials of the Department of State, USIA,
and AID. In past years, the interns have participated in a program of about 12 lectures organized by the White
House, designed to bring before the students influential policy leaders from all branches of government.

Craig has been assigned to the Planning Department of the United States Navy Finance Center as a management technician. In
addition to the regular program, 40 students from 28 different colleges and universities and 13 different states have participated in
programs sponsored by national, state, and local public agencies in the Cleveland area.

STUDENT CONTROL

"If there is a problem," Allen said, "correct it within the framework of student control rather than within the framework
of administration and faculty control." He suggested a possible change in penalty "from automatic suspension to a period of campus-ing"
for violators of the rule.

Finally, at an Open End program on Wednesday night, Goodstein and Allen again appeared, along with David Powell and Will
Jackson, who sided, respectively, with Goodstein and Allen. Each stated his personal opinion, explained his reasons, and received questions from
the floor.

In addition to his scheduled addresses and discussion hours, Herberg will also be available for classes and informal discussion during
his visit here.

COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR SUMMER WORK

International Encyclopedia firm to engage 30 students for summer months—June, July, August—to assist the manager of the New Products Division
in making outside interviews. Must be personable with a pleasant speaking voice. OVER AND ABOVE WEEKLY PAYCHECKS, COMPETE WITH FELLOW
STUDENTS FOR:

(A) $2000 CASH SCHOLARSHIP
(B) ADDITIONAL $1000 CASH SCHOLARSHIP AWARDED WEEKLY

Apply GREEN ROOM 2 P.M.-5 P.M. Monday 5-17-65

EARNINGS IN EXCESS OF $100.00 WEEKLY IF QUALIFIED

"For a really big splash at the lake or beach, shop Rush Wilson, Ltd. for your new bermudas and swim
suits. Plaids, solids, stripes..."

Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N.C.

"The response from the students was on the whole very good, especially in comparison with the way the drive has
gone in the past years," said Davis. "The time of collection undoubtedly hurt us, since it was right after Spring
Frolics and caught the seniors at a time when they didn’t care about this sort of thing. In the future,
the drive should be conducted during the first two weeks of the second semester."

DORM CAPTAINS

Davis also suggested a series of dorm captains serving as intermediaries between the hall solicitors and the head solicitor. PRAM
originator Fred Ehlers, by the students who are making the trip, $100 from personal donations at the Charlottetown Mall, $80
from the Institute of International Education, $200 from the senior class gift, $100 from the sale of candied apples and
doughnuts, and $500 from a special fund of the IFC. The money from IFC is an accumulation of pledging fines
over the past few years and the idea of giving it to PRAM was approved by the Dean of Students’
Office, since this money usually stays within the IFC.

"By this act, the IFC has demonstrated the interest of the fraternities in cultural activities and proved that they are
not totally socially conscious," said Davis.

250 persons, six speakers asked for a clear-cut statement from the administration and English department explaining why Goodykoontz was not
retained. They said the university was attempting to sidestep the issue of "publish or perish" by introducing "X-factors" into Goodykoontz's
discharge. The speakers said their interest was in the issue and their protest was not on behalf of one man.
Goodykoontz has said that he originally wanted to stay, but his falling out with officials has changed his mind. It
was after a similar falling out, during which he devoted a room in Stowe Galleries to an attack on what
he maintained was the administration's hostility to the arts—and especially drama—that Goodykoontz left Davidson two years ago.

Concerning the sponsoring organization, Davis said, "I would like to recommend that the fund be taken from the auspices of
the YMCA and put in the hands of an independent student organization or left in the hands of the Y
without using the name of the YMCA. My main reason for this is that many students object to solicitations by
the YMCA twice a year, and that this would then make for better results from both drives."

FUNDS SHORT

The proceeds from the Easter Fund Drive will bring to a total of $3400 the contributions to be used by
the PRAM cultural exchange project which will send 9 students to Ecuador this summer. This is still $600 short of
the $4000 needed in order to receive a combined matching grant from the Richardson and Martin Cannon Foundations.

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
The famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

SUMMER OPPORTUNITY (MALE STUDENTS OVER 18)

Students can earn in excess of $150.00 per week while working towards Scholarships, trips, Prizes, and Awards. This year Collier’s
Vacation Earnings Program offers College Students more prizes and awards than ever before in the history of the company:

—Nine days all expense paid trip to Japan
—Fifteen $1,000.00 Cash Scholarships
—Three $500.00 Cash Scholarships
—Valuable Merchandise awards

Students accepted for summer will have an opportunity to work in the location of their choice.

We dry clean, mothproof, and store clothes for the summer.

You can start bringing them in now.

CLEANERS
Across from Gulf Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Asheville, N.C.
Charlotte, N.C.
Raleigh, N.C.
Fayetteville, N.C.
Myrtle Beach, S.C.
Greenville, S.C.
Winston-Salem, N.C.
Wilmington, N.C.
Spartanburg, S.C.
Durham, N.C.
Rocky Mt., N.C.
Greensboro, N.C.
Elizabeth, N.C.
Columbia, S.C.
Roanoke Rapids, N.C.

Qualified previous employees would have the opportunity for management. All who would be interested fill in the next few lines
and mail promptly in order to receive first consideration.

Mr. Marshall S. Rosenfeld
District Manager
Suite 817
201 S. Tryon Building
Charlotte, N.C.

Name: ___________________________
Home Address: ___________________
Phone: ___________________________
Date available for interview: _______
Date you could begin: ______________
Area you prefer to work: ___________
