EIGHT PERMANENT Committees Prepare Trustees’ Transactions

By WALT DRAKE

Davidsonian Feature Writer

After discussion, they reported findings and recommendations to the Trustees. Preparing much of the business for meetings of Davidson's Board of Trustees are several permanent and temporary committees composed of members of the board.

DR. J. MCDOWELL RICHARDS (Staff Photo by Thel)

The Role Of The Trustees Is Generally Considered To Apply To Major Policies

Religious and Social Life Committee met to review the present fraternity situation. According to Fred Sack, the committee is working on an extensive report. 

By LOUIS LESESNE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The role of Davidson’s Trustees in the life of the college should be a quiet and generally indirect one, according to Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Board of Trustees president. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, Dr. Richards explained: “The role of the trustees is generally considered to apply to major policies. We don’t want to regulate all the minor details which occur in the college’s business.”

As part of the overall direction of the college, Dr. Richards indicated that he expected the board to receive at its fall meeting the self-study program as information received. “We will take no action but will study it and probably make recommendations at our spring meeting as to specific actions,” Dr. Richards said of the study.

This weekend Davidson plays host to two guests. Of more immediate concern to the average Davidsonian will be, of course, the discharge of his social obligations to the local ladies.

The trustees’ greatest influence is in its selection of the administration. Although the choice of faculty members is to a great extent guided by President (D.G.) Martin's recommendations, Dr. Richards explained.

Dr. Richards, who lives in Atlanta and is president of Columbia Theological Seminary, spends approximately 10 days a year devoted to Davidson business.

INDIRECT WORK

“This time includes such activities as trustee meetings and committee meetings. In addition, there’s a lot of indirect work which I do. It would be hard to estimate how much time I spend on these activities,” he said.

“I come to Davidson whenever the administration feels that I'm needed, or anytime I think I can add any personal contribution. Although it’s impossible for me to make it to all committee meetings, I try to come to any of a special nature,” he added.

PERSONAL READING

Dr. Richards explained that this included activities such as personal reading: “I try to do a lot of reading about the college.”The life Trustees of the college have gathered for perhaps more weighty matters than football and after-game whoopee. Legal owners of the college, the trustees individually and collectively are for the most part little-known and little understood by the Davidson student body. For more than a few students, unfortunately, the Trustees are a group of men who rather mystically appear two times a year and for four days rule the Davidson roost from a world far apart. The liberal cut system, the abolition of the faculty oath, the reinstatement of fall rush, all come and go to the student as machinations of a force far removed. Thus it is the purpose of this report to reveal in a small way the function and role of the Trustees of this college. In this page, Louis Lesesne interviews Dr. J. McDowell Richards, the president of the Trustees, about the role of the Trustees. Bob Holladay writes on their general organization, and Walt Drake discusses the functioning of committees, the basic instruments for Trustee action.

PRESIDENTS RICHARDS AND MARTIN of the liberal arts college in general and Davidson in particular advise David: Style and Consent, Son.

Trustees and Faculty Take Time Out For Pipeful And Cup Of Slater

"All the trustees read THE DAVIDSONIAN as one way to keep informed, especially as a means of keeping in touch with student sentiment. Of course, we try to maintain personal contact with faculty members, too," he added. The chairman mentioned a $2.2 million grant by the Ford Foundation as playing a large part in Davidson's future. "The grant will allow us to expand in all directions. We want to strive not only for intellectual excellence, but for well-rounded mental, moral, and spiritual development."

EXCELLENCE

"In addition," the Rhodes Scholar from Davidson continued, "the awarding of the grant is recognition of excellence in itself; it should serve as a stimulus to greater excellence." The chairman was optimistic about the outlook for raising the $5.5 million as part of the challenge grant, despite the fact that "we're encountering problems because of the fund-raising campaigns of so many other worthy causes." "It was a feat to receive the grant in the first place, and we can give Dr. Martin much credit for getting it. Now that we've gotten this far, I'm certain we can get the rest of the money."

Fifty-One ‘Churchmen’

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The official purpose of the Davidson College Board of Trustees is to act on programs initiated by the administration and faculty. Taking this responsibility are 51 individuals, who are delegated by the Presbyteries of North Carolina Synod, two supporting presbyteries in Florida, Asheville Presbytery of Appalachian Synod, and the Alumni Association. The trustees themselves determine the numbers to be received from any one presbytery, with major consideration given to the support each has provided to the college. Every prospective Trustee must be a member of an Evangelical church.

MEET BIENNIALLY

The Trustees meet ordinarily twice a year, with committee meetings taking place at shorter intervals. Possessing acting authority throughout the year is an Executive Committee consisting of 15 members and headed ex officio by the president and secretary of the larger body. All Trustees are kept abreast of events during the year through such publications as THE DAVIDSONIAN and through special mailings from the office of the President of the college. These mailings occur two or three times a month and are especially useful when a controversial or deliberative situation arises.

COMMITTEE WORK

When the possibility of a solid step toward strengthening the college presents itself and this step is of a non-controversial nature, the matter is referred to one of the committees set up by the Trustees, to be worked into a proposal for Trustee action. While many such proposals spring from the administration, the Trustees may make additional suggestions and advise the administration of more effective ways for achieving better results than had been considered.

LEGAL OWNERS

Such a role is in line with the Trustees’ position as legal owners of the college. At the time of Davidson's founding, the State of North Carolina granted a corporate charter to the college, and the Trustees are the holders of this charter. As such they function in the world of higher education in the way that a board of trustees functions for Ford Motor Company. They view from a wider perspective than the college any important procedural or policy step and have ultimate authority over what the final step will be. They hire a president to function as liaison with the college and are answerable to the law for the conduct of the college. In this way, they serve as a check upon the negligence and malfeasance that might hypothetically arise in any self-directed enterprise.

Various Committees Met Last Night And Will Report Today