PAGE SIX

Grease Fire Damaging, But Union Still Stands
By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Fire in the Union snack bar Monday night caused considerable damage to the grill, the soft drink dispensers, and the walls and ceiling around the bar. The damage may be repaired within a week or 10 days, according to Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant. He added that a contractor is ready to proceed with the work as soon as materials can be obtained.

The fire, which broke out about 7:45 p.m., started on the grill at the snack bar where grease from the deep frying unit caught fire. John Word, assistant to an official from Slater’s regional office in Atlanta, who has been at Davidson for several days, was at the Union when the fire occurred. He estimated that it “took about 10 minutes to put it out. The students,” he commented, “put the fire out before the fire department arrived.”

The stainless steel hood over the grill was damaged and glass on the counter opposite the grill was cracked from the heat caused by the fire. The heat also damaged two plastic soft drink dispensers and the sign over the snack bar. The ceiling was severely burned and the wall blackened by the fire itself. “It's fortunate that we didn’t have more damage,” commented Meetze, who said he couldn't estimate the cost of the overall damage because he had no idea how much it would cost to repair the damage to the stainless steel in the snack bar area. There was no real structural damage, according to Meetze, but he explained that repair work would be costly because there may have been as much as $500 worth of damage done to the ceiling alone. The college, said Meetze, is most anxious to avoid delays in repair work so that the snack bar will be able to reopen as soon as possible.

Is Elected New Handbook Editor
By TED WINTER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Upperclassmen gave junior Alva Whitehead 210 votes to win Wednesday's election for editor of next year’s Wildcat Handbook. Gary DeVane, Whitehead’s opponent, drew 140 ballots in the election, which was originally scheduled for Monday. The candidates were nominated by 1965 Editor Britt Snider and were approved by the Publications Board. Both nominees worked under Snider on this year's Handbook: Whitehead as associate editor and DeVane as section editor on orientation.

Whitehead’s platform in last week's DAVIDSONIAN called for a broadening of the scope of the Handbook and a continued integration of its purpose as orientation and information for freshmen and a “handy reference guide for upperclassmen.” “Nothing in the past Handbook can be left out,” Whitehead explained, so that it will be necessary to “get more information into the same space this year.” Changes called for in Whitehead’s platform include a new map of Davidson with faculty homes indicated, revised telephone listings for nearby girls’ schools, and earlier deadlines for the section editors. After his election Wednesday, Whitehead said that he feels, “DeVane’s platform has some good ideas which I hope to use also.” Among these he indicated more thorough evaluation of the rush system and bus schedules and car rental information from Charlotte. In order to “better serve the freshman class next year,” the new editor hopes to include on his staff some freshmen or freshman hall counselors from this year. He urges any student interested in working on the Handbook or with ideas for it to contact him at any time. Whitehead, who is from Lake City, S.C., is also a member of the Honor Court and of Pi Kappa Alpha.

First Stimulus Group Organized By YMCA
By MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A young Davidson professor, waving his fist, stamped his foot vigorously defending his view of justice in Tillich’s philosophy against the skillful objections of a senior and two other Davidson professors. Several other underclassmen joined in the fray, adding downright naivete and shrewd sarcasm to the discussion. Words flew both methodically and haphazardly in the living room of a fraternity house Monday evening among six Davidson professors and 11 Davidson students. No grades nor class attendance was even remotely involved in this no-holds-barred intellectual fray. The occasion? The YMCA’s new intellectual pitch, “Stimulus,” a voluntary grouping of Davidson students and professors meeting once a month to discuss some idea or topic of current interest to the intellectual world. Its purpose and style blazed through at its October meeting Monday at the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house. The topic? For October, Paul Tillich’s Love, Power and Justice. Each member of the group had read this short work on his own and gathered that night to discuss whatever contents and applications he found interesting. For this particular meeting, two professors opened the discussion with a few summaries: A professor from the Bible Department gave a brief summary and a member of the Political Science Department drew parallels to American involvement in Viet Nam, the racial situation in the United States, and the general criminal code. Then the fun began. Almost before the political science professor had finished, an English professor was almost incoherent with objections. Each member of the group could speak when and as he liked—and all did, usually at once. The moderator, Paul Simpson, had suggested that there be some limit or interval between barbs but this seemed immediately forgotten. There was an assumption of equality between student and professor in that intellectual brawl—each man’s points were listened to and debated, sometimes with varying degrees of sarcasm and roughness that more than once were turned back on their originators.

Chaplain Will Terry’s brainchild, the YMCA program “Stimulus,” was considered an unqualified success by the other Davidson students ranged in chairs throughout the living room—most of whom were not a little startled at hearing professors argue among themselves. “Stimulus” is a discussion group composed of 11 students and six professors: this particular group has a closed membership and is unconcerned about its audience. Its avowed purpose is to create and sustain interest in intellectual topics outside the classroom for its individual members and through them to the rest of the campus. “Stimulus” is not a campus-wide organization, though it contains students from every class and professors from most departments; but as students and professors indicate interest in this sort of thing, the YMCA hopes to form more “stimulus” groups. Each member has the responsibility of preparing for the topic to be discussed, to be present at the discussion, and to make whatever contribution he can to the discussion. There are no direct penalties or rewards for either lack of preparedness or special effort—save in the individual. And the feeling of participation and accomplishment in intellectual competition is one that can't be duplicated elsewhere.

The members of this first “Stimulus” group are as follows: Professors George Abernethy, Charles Lloyd, Ernie Patterson, Dan Rhodes, Phillip Secor, Locke White; Seniors Paul Simpson, Ken Childs, Jay Federman, Bob Holladay, Charlie Turner; Juniors Wayne Rhodes, Chip Robertson, Charlie Vick; and Sophomores Sam Hatcher, Mike Mooty, Paul Monk. “Stimulus” has already produced a few concrete results: students, who listened to the discussion Monday night, who before couldn't have cared less about “intellectualizing” outside the classroom now have a new slant on this phase of college life. And some of them are eager to participate themselves. Whether or not the Y's first “Stimulus” will survive depends primarily upon the interest of the men involved, many of whom are pretty heavily committed elsewhere in campus affairs. But other “Stimulus” groups could be real godsends to other men on campus who have the desire for this kind of pleasure but don’t know where to start.

MARGARET HILLIS
Concerts Headline Music Convocation

The music of J. S. Bach will be featured throughout the Sixth Annual Sacred Music Convocation on the Davidson campus, today and tomorrow. Guest conductor will be Miss Margaret Hillis of Chicago and New York. One of America’s foremost choral and orchestral conductors, Miss Hillis simultaneously holds four demanding positions: founder and music director of The American Choral Foundation, conductor and choral director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus (which she founded at the request of Fritz Reiner), music director and conductor of the Kenosha Symphony Orchestra, and choral director for the American Opera Society of New York City. Her appearance at Davidson is made possible in part by a grant from The American Choral Foundation.

Miss Hillis addressed the convocation delegates at 2 this afternoon on “Interpreting Bach.” At 8:15 tonight she will conduct a performance of the Bach “Magnificat” by the Mary Baldwin College Choir, the Davidson College Male Chorus, and the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra. Tomorrow afternoon, Miss Hillis will conduct a workshop performance of the Bach Cantata No. 140, “Wachet Auf,” with the Choir of Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. A recital of organ music by Bach will be performed at 11:15 tomorrow morning by Richard Peek, Henry Bridges, and Mary Lou Beaman of Charlotte; John Brock of Statesville; and Wilmer Welsh of Davidson.

(Photo by Lesesne)
CLEANUP BEGINS AFTER MONDAY’S FIRE
Burning Grease Covered Snack Bar Area

SUPPLEMENT TO QUESTIONNAIRES
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1966

Canzoneri Questions Value Of Democracy
By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Robert Canzoneri is a man who wants to know exactly why something should exist when most of us tend to ask only why it is right. The problem of varying ideologies and governmental systems, for example,causes this youngish, balding poet. As he did, it became clear to many for the first time that democracy was not automatically correct because it was American—in fact, it may not be correct at all. In chapel Tuesday, at coffees and in English classes, Canzoneri, in his casual, easy manner, asked these same, searching questions, provoking a good deal of original thought.

Fraternity Leaders Plan Statements Of Purpose

adjusted to any problems. Switching the discussion to the future of fraternities at Davidson, Covington challenged the fraternity presidents to work together for the “best fraternity system of any college.” He urged the fraternities to pull together and work as a group to do this. Dean Burts urged the presidents to improve relations between their fraternities and the faculty by keeping the faculty advisors informed of events and in turn learning from the advisors the sentiments of the faculty on fraternity issues.

The presidents of Davidson’s 12 social fraternities decided Monday to formulate an official statement of purpose and contribution to the college by the fraternity system. Without it, he stated, there are only three and one-half hours that a fraternity may have legal contact with a rushee, and that is not enough time to rush an individual. “You can't sell a fraternity and a freshman can’t see what a fraternity is like in that short length of time.”

Bob Bryan, Phi Delt president, echoed Meschan's sentiments. He suggested that the presidents get their organizations to petition the IFC or the faculty committee on fraternities to allow some dorm rush. The fraternity presidents, within one month, will supplement the individual questionnaires which each fraternity has been asked to return by November 22 to the Social Life Evaluation Committee. The fraternity presidents made their decision to formulate such a statement at a dinner meeting Monday sponsored by the Dean of Students’ Office and held in the Union.

JUSTIFYING EXISTENCE

All the presidents expressed a dislike for “always being asked to justify our existence.” Their sentiment was that the fraternities contributed greatly to not only the social aspects of college life but to the intellectual life as well. They felt that the contributions made by fraternities were much more informal and much less restrictive than the contributions made by formal education in the classroom. The presidents decided to attempt to convey these feelings and other tangible contributions of the fraternities in their statement.

Assistant Dean Covington explained that this measure was adopted to avoid a “black Saturday” when some students received bids and pledged while others in the dorms received no bid. Also discussed at the meeting with Covington were some of the problems encountered by the presidents in running their fraternities and in the delayed rush system.

Expert On Africa To Speak Tuesday

Russell Howe, African affairs correspondent for the Washington Post, will be the guest speaker in chapel Tuesday. For more than 10 years, Howe has covered the turbulent continent of Africa. During this time he has become acquainted with all major African leaders, including such figures as Moise Tshombe, the late Patrice Lumumba, Joseph Kasavubu, Emperor Haile Selassie, Holden Roberto, and Ben Bella. Howe has covered all major Pan-African conferences, rebellions, revolutions, political upheavals, and colonial problems and is considered an expert on African political, economic, and social affairs. In addition, he is a well-versed authority on the problems of the press and censorship in the world’s newest nations.

Howe has nearly paid for his stories with his life. The most memorable of these was when he and two companions were tried by a kangaroo court in Leopoldville and sentenced to death as communist spies. They were saved within five minutes of their scheduled execution by a British attache.

BLACK SATURDAY

Born in London, Howe was a teen-age fighter pilot with the RAF during World War II. Following the war, he majored in French literature at the Sorbonne, joining Reuters news service in Paris after his graduation. In 1952, Howe left Reuters, free-lanced in Paris, and then began traveling in and writing about Africa in 1954.

NEW SYSTEM

Walt Drake, ATO president, then asked Covington if the “Black Saturday” of the old rush system would not simply be replaced by a similar day following Christmas vacation when the freshmen return to Davidson and discuss their bids. Covington said that by that time the freshmen would be more adjusted to any problems.

Beta President David Meschan commented that some form of dorm rush is necessary to provide needed contacts between rushees and fraternity men. Bryan urged the presidents to get together in their demands. “Let's all hang together and not separately,” he stated.

HANG TOGETHER

Martin said it was definitely binding on every fraternity and to ask, and then answer for himself, the question, “Why democracy anyhow?” on the part of his audience about heretofore blindly accepted ideas and ideals. About democracy, Canzoneri stated, “When we start talking about democracy we presuppose that there is a correct decision and a political method set up which makes this correct decision.” The Constitution is supposed to help to make these correct decisions, but still we can’t go back to tradition to really answer the question ‘Why democracy?’ And we can't say that ‘God ordained it’ because that's presupposing that we know what God ordained,” Canzoneri added. “Some say that our form of government is the best because the way to arrive at a decision is through the people,” commented Canzoneri, “yet our government has made some gross errors. The system does not exist because it is a foolproof method of deciding what's right. This concept of democracy is invalid.”

Next, Canzoneri questioned the reasons for preserving society. “Why save it?” he asked. “Why are we preserving the white race? Is it of aesthetic value? That's the only reason I can conceive of, and looking at your faces I'm not even sure of that. We only want to make ourselves important. We say ‘We have a destiny which God ordained,’ but we don’t know what God ordained.”

On the question of human dignity, Canzoneri asked, “What is so dignified about man? Why is a creature valuable except to himself?” Here is the vital crux of the matter—the answer to the ‘why’s’ he had asked, for “the human race may not be important in the great scheme of things, but it does matter that I might be killed, my wife... you.” Man is concerned only with that which touches himself, and this is the real reason why he seeks to preserve his kind or his race. It is also the reason we believe democracy to be right. A government should exist for the pleasure of the individual, for “Man is the only unit of value in a society.” A democracy is the only government where man might blow himself off the earth, but in which we will have done it ourselves. Democracy is the only source of value: where a government can govern itself right, badly or however—but at least it governs itself.”

See the New SKI JACKETS by Campus 18.00 to 23.00 London Fog Jackets 17.95

Arrivals

John Meck & Son
Our 53rd Continuous Year
MOORESVILLE, N. C.