FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965

‘WE'RE GOING TO WIN’

Soccermen Face Apps & Pfeiffer

The Davidson soccer team faced one of its tougher opponents of the season when Appalachian visited here today and encounters
even stiffer competition at Pfeiffer Tuesday. Last year both Appalachian and Pfeiffer defeated Davidson, but coach Harry Fogleman is looking
forward to a victory over Appalachian and a tougher contest with Pfeiffer. Fogleman said, “First we are going to win
this one Friday.” The game Tuesday looms as one of the year’s major contests as the Wildcats face a mighty
Pfeiffer squad. “I've talked to some of the officials in the area and they feel that Pfeiffer has the best
team in the state. Comparing scores shows that Davidson defeated St. Andrews 4-2 while Pfeiffer downed them 12-0,” Fogleman remarked.

The Wildcats are having their troubles with injuries. Fogleman said that two players are still limping from the Duke game.
One, Juergen Schroder, is expected to play, but the other, Bob Lanier, will not. The Duke contest gave Davidson its
only setback, setting the record thus far at 5-1.

By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

SOCCER... FINNEY

“You're going to be doing all the work, you say where,” Head Soccer Coach Harry Fogleman chuckled to me and
his small audience of freshman soccer boys, yesterday. “Okay, we'll talk in the shade,” I said as we walked off
the soccer field toward the steps leading up to the road below the football stadium.

In particular, Fogleman corrected an earlier column I wrote when I quoted Coach Lefty Driesell and called Fred Hetzel Davidson's
first All-American in anything. In 1960 Claude Finney was an All-American goalie for Dr. Paul Marrotte’s Davidson soccermen. “I understand
Finney was about my height,” Fogleman rambled. “He was five feet tall and five feet broad, a squatty fellow; but
he had huge hands, and he was quick. And rough. He’d ‘roll’ anybody that got near the goal. Sometimes he'd
take out two or three. They weren't undefeated then, but he only allowed a fantastic number of goals, something like
two the whole season.”

At that time Fogleman’s star fullback and freshman soccer coach, Glenn Hanes, walked over about Finney, argued about soccer, and
added anything he could to the conversation.

FRESHMEN

From Finney, Fogleman (and now Hanes) began talking about the freshman squad, who recently took Myers Park 3-1 in a
practice game. “This is the best group of freshmen I’ve seen since I've been here,” Fogleman beamed. “There are about
eight who'll be playing varsity ball here. Wouldn't you say so Glenn?” “Eight, maybe ten, real good ones,” Hanes replied.
“You want some names?” “Yeah, I'll take some—who’s good?” I asked. “Greg Simmons, Harry Hamil, Joe Norton, Jim Marrow, Jim
Lehman, and others.” Hanes rattled off. “You want more—oh yeah, Alec Neisler, don’t forget Neisler. He got two goals in
the Myers Park game. I could give you some more...” “Well, you can just say ‘others’, many ‘others’, if you’d
rather,” Fogleman broke in. “What's that boy’s name over there?” As Fogleman pointed Hanes started rattling off names again. “That's
Miller, Bayard Miller, you might mention him. And Ben Martin...” So the freshmen appear to have some soccer players. Between
Fogleman and Hanes nearly the whole team got praise.

CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

As we left babbling about freshman footmen, and Hanes ran off to dress out for practice, Fogleman turned his attention
to the Southern Conference Soccer Tournament to be held here next month on the 19th and 20th. “We're going to
have a round robin, single elimination tournament,” Fogleman informed me; a single elimination tournament probably involving not only Davidson, but
also West Virginia, Furman, East Carolina, and maybe George Washington (assuming they'll show their faces after Homer's crew whitewashes them
this weekend). The championship game of this tournament is scheduled for Saturday, November 20, at 11, before the Wofford game.
“We'll probably be the favored team,” Fogleman forecasted. “We're the only team to win a conference game (over Furman 2-0),
so if there's a bye or something like that, we ought to get it.

SECOND FIDDLE

Playing second fiddle to football, Davidson soccer has never received the enthusiasm that some of its toughest opponents can fire
themselves with. Pfeiffer, Tuesday’s opponent, has the best soccer team in the state—but no football. “You ought to see them,”
Fogleman smiled. “They'll have a band and cheerleaders, just like our football. Belmont Abbey is the same way. Once at
Campbell we played before 3000 people, then a couple of years ago we played Emory at their homecoming. They decorated
the campus for us then.” Fogleman meandered toward the soccer goal as we finished. I left the 5-1 Booters pounding
leather balls onto a wooden wall readying for Appalachian.

By TOMMY COX
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The beginning of Davidson basketball practice initiates a slow-clap-type of speculation which mushrooms into clammy anxiety up to tip-off of
the first game. The louder buzz this season means that Lefty Driesell has begun his sixth season as Davidson head
coach with a handful of veterans and a passel of good but green sophomores. Nobody knows whether this team will
win or lose or what they'll do, but the first days of practice have considerably toughened Dick Snyder & Co.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)

ALL AMERICAN FORM?

‘Cats’ Captain Dick Snyder Fires Favorite Shot

READY BY THANKSGIVING

Four More Tennis Courts Added

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson finished phase one of an ambitious expansion program for athletic facilities when final construction on four new tennis courts
was completed this week. Improvements to come in the future include a new baseball field, a variety of additions to
the facilities in Richardson Stadium and a new intramural area, according to Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott. The new tennis
courts, made possible through a $20,000 grant from the Duke Endowment.

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Next week will tell the story in this fall’s flickerball scramble when the Betas and the Kappa Sigs clash Wednesday
afternoon. Both teams finished this week with perfect records. The Betas, led by speedy Sam Cathey, downed the Pikas yesterday
afternoon, 25-6. Commenting on the game, Cathey stated, “We didn't look all that sharp, but when the chips were down,
we held ‘em.” The Beta defense, led by Jim Timmons, had a good afternoon, stopping the Pikas twice on the
one-foot line. In their only game of the week, the Kappa Sigs edged the Pi Kapps 36-28. Cary Kettner, a
Pi Kapp back, described the action by saying, “We had them worried.” The score was tied at the half, and
the Sigs waited until the last three minutes to cinch their umpteenth straight victory. Neal Martin scored twice for the
losers, with Tuck Jones, Cary Kettner, and Paul Curlee also turning in fine performances. The Sigs were led by Jamie
Bryant and Tommy Cox. The Sigma Chis also downed the Pi Kapps this week by a convincing score of 31-7.
The Machis exploded in the first half, scoring all five of their touchdowns.

“We've only practiced ten days. It’s hard to evaluate how we stand so far,” Lefty related from behind a desk
stacked with paperwork, “We've been working hard defensively; you're only going to be as good as your defense. It's still
our tough.Hardnose man-to-man, but we can use a good half-court zone, our ‘goulash’ defense, if we want to,” The first
open scrimmage Saturday showed that the roundballers had indeed been working on the defensive aspects of the game. Otherwise, the
game was a little ragged, but as Lefty explained, “Our main purpose was to expose the team to pressure. We've
got a lot of young kids. Our offense was terrible, but it was only the first time we'd brought the
ball downcourt on offense this season. Rod Knowles did an outstanding job. Lane was good, and Snyder had nine steals
on defense.” Knowles was the leading scorer with 27 points and garnered 15 rebounds. Dick Snyder added another 18 points
and fine defense. Snyder commented about the game and practice, “We're not as polished as the group I broke in
with, but this group has been a hustling bunch which might make up for some of our mistakes.” If Dick
and the ‘Cats have a good year, All-American recognition will most certainly honor Snyder as it did Fred Hetzel of
last year's 24-2 team. Driesell and a lot of other people think he may be the best in the nation.
Nevertheless, Snyder has not been content to rest the first few weeks of practice and come on strong later. He's
the leader this year and he acts like one should act. “The big difference this year,” he says, “is that
everybody came to practice in better shape since we've had to spend more time with fundamentals because we have more
sophomores.” For Davidson practice continues, but the oppressive odor of sweaty uniforms means that the green ones are losing their
green, the polished ones are shining their polish, and Lefty is looking for a winner. The “screech” of rubber on
hardwoods means that the team is practicing—it’s getting louder and hopefully means something besides a menagerie of tropical birds.

Netmen Organize ’66 Team
Thirteen men have achieved positions on Davidson's 1966 Varsity Tennis Squad, according to a statement released by Coach Harry Fogleman
recently. Stated Coach Fogleman, “This is the largest tennis squad we have ever had, but this is due to a
great number of excellent tennis players in school.” Those who have made the team are seniors Bill Council, Woody Cleveland,
Dick Hurd, and Jeff Frank; juniors Esmond Phelps, Peter Parrott, and Geordie Mueller; and sophomores Woody Faulk, Pinky Hatcher, Frank
Bass, Dan Hearon, and Charles Orr.

The courts have a Laykold (asphalt-type) surface laid by the Van Summer Construction Co. of Chesapeake, Va. According to tennis
coach Harry Fogleman, the courts will be open to all students, and because of the type of surface, will be
playable in practically any weather. In order to give the surface the specified one month of curing time, the courts
will probably not be opened for use until after Thanksgiving recess. “This brings our total number of tennis courts to
16, and we do have room by the four new courts to add another court when financial considerations will allow
us to do so,” remarked Dr. Scott. “Furthermore, these all-weather courts have conduits installed around them so that in the
future we can add lights for night play,” he added.

The athletic department has also received a $50,000 challenge grant from the Richardson Foundation for improvements to Richardson Field. The
decision was made to convert the present baseball field into a parking area for stadium events, and consequently, some of
the Richardson money was appropriated for the relocation of the baseball field. Improvements to Richardson Field itself have already begun,
with the sandblasting of the stands, the installation of fiberglass seats, the construction of a new press box, and the
renovation of the dressing rooms and restrooms in the west stands having been recently completed. Finally, to alleviate the present
cramped IMAC schedule, which requires three Nickerball games a day for five days each week in order to complete the
schedule before cold weather, the college has constructed a large intramural field north of the soccer field. The area has
been seeded and will be available for IMAC use beginning with softball in the spring.

Harriers Ready For State Meet
The cross-country team enters the State Championship meet Nov. 8 in Raleigh relying on the running of Andy Little. Coach
Heath Whittle pointed out that this year’s team is not as well balanced as last year's. He added, “Andy has
run the best time for a Davidson man on this course since 1962.” Last Tuesday the thinclads fell to VMI
and East Carolina. Little took top honors in the meet at 21:48, a time which would have placed fifth in
last year’s Southern Conference meet. After the race, he could only say that he was tired. The score against VMI
was 21-37 while the ECC score was 25-30. Placing behind Little were Jesse Sims, Jim McLaughlin, Bobby Myers, John Morris,
and Richard Allen. The squad gets its last chance of the season to win a dual meet when it entertains
High Point Tuesday, Nov. 9. Coach Whittle expressed confidence of a good showing if the squad can stay healthy.

IMAC STANDINGS
Kappa Sig 10-0
Beta 6-0
Phi Delt 7-1
Sigma Chi 4-2
ATO 6-3
SAE 5-5
Pika 1-5
Sig Ep 4-5
Phi Gam 3-5
KA 1-5
Ind. 1-6
Sigma Nu 1-7
Pi Kapp 0-8

Larry Norfleet led the Chis to a 32-12 victory by scoring 18 points in the last five minutes to cinch
the victory. Commenting on the game, Norfleet praised their defensive effort. “We only had one lapse,” he stated, “when we
let them score.” Basil Hicks also played a good game for the Sigma Chis and was credited with one interception.
Hard luck continued to plague the SAE’s this week as the Phi Delts slipped past them 24-19 on a pass
to Jack Lingle with 55 seconds remaining in the game. This was the fifth defeat for the E’s, four of
which were lost in the last three minutes. Ed Armfield, playing his usual good game, scored one of the SAE’s
touchdowns after picking off a Delt pass. Lingle and Buzzy Parker combined forces to lead the Delts to a 27-20
decision over the ATO's earlier in the week. Coming back from a 20-6 deficit, the Taus tied the score 20
all before losing in the last few minutes. The ATO's avenged the defeat by crushing the SPE's 38-18 later in
the week. The Phi Delts copped their third victory of the week Wednesday by battering the Sigma Nus 36-18. After
scoring on their first two offensive plays, the Delts put down a determined Nu bid. Ron Hunt described the Delt
strategy as “coming through when it counts.” The KA’s had another hard week dropping two of two. The Phi Gams
also dropped the E's yesterday, 25-14. Danny Layman scored the KA’s only touchdown.
