The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Basically Speaking

Next week's student body referendum on the repeal of the drinking rule cannot be covered up by superficial and spurious
arguments on the anachronism of the present clause in the student body constitution. The issue at stake should be made
plain to the entire student body: it is the question of a “wet” or “dry” campus. Several polls and questionnaires
have been taken in recent years of student opinion on the question of alcohol being allowed on or off the
campus; however, next week is the first time that a formal vote will have been taken on the status of
the current liquor clause in the constitution.

The most recent sampling of student body opinion on the question was taken last fall. Nearly two-thirds of those questioned
at that time opposed the student body regulation prohibiting alcohol on campus. However, the same poll indicated that approximately three-fourths
of the student body opposed liquor in the dormitories and nearly one-half opposed liquor in fraternity houses.

During the last two weeks of school with term papers, reviews and examinations building pressure ahead, we are prone for
a change to lightly regard many matters. This question cannot afford anything less than the fullest attention of every voter
next week. The most ideal solution is not necessarily the most practical. We hope that voters can see through the
illusions painted by some supporters of repeal and can closely examine the question around which next week’s referendum is based.

Associate Editors: RUFUS ADAIR, JOHNNY CLARK, MICHAEL HARRINGTON. Assistant Editors: BILL AITKEN, DONALD DAVIS. Managing Editors: LOUIS LESESNE, PAUL AMRION.
Assistant Managing Editors: BOB HOWARD, JOE FIDOR. News Editor: HARRY CARR. Feature Editor: HEYWARD CARTER. Sports Editor: BILL BRIGGS. Assistant
Sports Editor: SAM BOYTE. Photographers: TOM THEL, ROB JOHNSON, SAM SMITH. Cartoonists: JACK LINGLE, LOU HILL. Assistant Business Manager: BOB
CAMERON. Advertising Manager: BILL WATSON. Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER.

Contributors this week: Steve Brown, Neville Patterson, Tucker Laxton, Arch McCallum, Bob Orr, John Allen, Tom Cook, Larry Norfleet, Toby
Watt, Mike Bates, Frank Fleming, Don Carroll, Bruce Gregory, Clark Suggs, Mike Carroll, Charles Steel, David Ginn, Ron Snow, Bob
Travers, Carter Fussell, John Bailey, Mike May, Lindsay Davis, Ted Glusman, Bob Vance, Huck Berry.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year. Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at
the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under Act of March 3, 1879.

By JOHNNY CLARK Davidsonian Associate Editor

Editor Todd argues above that students will “see through the illusions painted by (Arnie Goodstein)” and “closely examine the question
around which next week’s referendum is based.” Where these illusions come from, we don’t know. Todd says the question is
that of a “wet” or “dry” campus, a point which Goodstein made clear to the Student Council Monday night when
petitioning for a referendum. The direct effect of the passage of next week's referendum would be a “wet” campus. Neither
Goodstein nor anyone else denies this. But the insinuation that a “wet” or “dry” campus is the only question at
stake is the only illusion which we find.

Davidson presently prohibits the consumption, and even possession, of alcoholic beverages on campus. This prohibition either denies that Davidson students
can possess responsibilities such as the freedom to drink without turning the dorms into houses of rampaging drunks, or assumes
that any consumption of alcohol is inherently evil and thus the college should use the powers it holds over its
students to prevent them from succumbing to this evil.

We assume that those favoring the retention of the present rule are, for the most part, adherents to the first
position mentioned above, that of the fear of the misuse of privileges resulting from repeal of the prohibition. Such a
fear is totally unwarranted. It has been proven to be unfounded in other schools where drinking is permitted and there
is little reason to doubt that such would be the case here. Students can now go up the road and
get drunk every night if they so choose. There is no reason to believe that student freedom to change the
location of their drinking will bring any appreciable increase in drunks and drunkenness.

Student Council Vice-President Johnny Gresham will present to the Student Council Monday a resolution that the Council promise a new
formulation of rules against disorderly drunkenness and strict enforcement of these rules if the drinking clause is repealed. Such rules,
with punishments comparable to the infractions, should quash any fears anyone might have of excesses of drinking freedom. Yet, we
hardly think that such fears are a real concern. The real concern is whether Davidson will allow its students the
freedom to drink or not to drink in their own rooms, whether Davidson students think themselves capable of accepting responsibilities
or whether they think of themselves as so immature as to require paternalistic regulations to steer them on the straight
and narrow.

Rejection of the petition in next week’s referendum will mean a rejection of students’ willingness to accept responsibility. It will
be acceptance of the fact that they should be governed by outmoded restrictions. If students cannot responsibly assume the right
to drink when they choose, then they can hardly ask to be granted freedom in more important areas, such as
the freedom to voluntarily find their own religion and relation to God without forced attendance at Davidson churches. The faculty
and trustees will closely consider student feeling as expressed in the referendum. Refusal to erase the outmoded drinking restriction in
the Student Body Constitution will be an enormous setback for any future attempts to liberalize student rights and remove the
yoke of outmoded restrictions.

Goodstein’s proposal does not mask anything. It simply follows the only positive course for changing the drinking restrictions that is
open to students. A liberalization in faculty regulations will hardly precede students’ changes in their own regulations. We have a
chance to gain some and express our desire for the basic responsibilities and freedoms which coincide with any institution which
would aspire to allow its students to develop freely rather than to cast them into rigid molds. Now is our
chance—let’s not blow it.

Taking The Teeth Out . . . by Lingle

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Plowden Protests Linking Honor To Drinking Rule

Dear Editor:

There is no good reason why thirty men out of the whole student body should be honor-bound to report violations
of the no-drinking-on-campus rule. Whether you like or don’t like the idea of a wet campus, you can at least
agree that it’s unfair to make one out of every thirty students be on his honor to report students drinking
on campus. Making men honor-bound to enforce college conduct regulations is misusing the Honor System. There are some things that
are matters of a man’s honor—drinking ain’t one of them. Lying, cheating and stealing are. One man’s drinking is not
a matter of another man’s honor. Considering that a majority of the members of the Honor Court and Student Council
probably drink off-campus, making them say that drinking in one particular place (i.e. Davidson College) is a matter of their
own personal honor seems not a little foolish. For that matter, having a regulation designed to prohibit completely a pretty
general social custom (81% of the students here indulging) is kinda silly. The strength of the Honor System is in
its collective enforcement by the entire student body. If whether or not a man drinks on campus is such a
matter of honor as to have at least a few men honor-bound to report, why not have everybody honor-bound to
go looking for alcoholics? But the big problem is this—a dry campus is something that the college administration wants to
have, but doesn’t want to have to enforce. So it’s quite convenient to have students honor-bound to do the college’s
dirty work. A dry campus isn’t necessarily something that the students want; but a dry campus is something that some
of us

Richey Captures Critics’ Applause

David Richey, assistant professor of music, received outstanding reviews after performing his Quartet No. 1 in the Twenty-Second American Music
Festival of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. Both The Evening Star and The Washington Post offered favorable
comment on the performance.

Charles Crowder of The Washington Post wrote, “The Richey work was the last on the program but was far and
above the real success of the evening in both performance and musical qualities . . . it is an award-winning
piece through and through. . . . Richey makes it clear from the beginning that he understands what sounds a
quartet can make and of what effects, virtuosity and thematic projection is capable. The know-how of manipulation can be heard
at every turn but over that comes the sound of a composer who is imaginative, sensitive, and writes music that
is, quite simply, moving and beautiful.”

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Don't Miss a Single Copy This Fall 1965-66 DAVIDSONIAN

Name _______________________

Address _______________________

City and state _______________________

Zip Code _______________________

I enclose four dollars

——New

——Bill me later at $4.50

——Renewal

Clip and mail to: Circulation Manager THE DAVIDSONIAN Box 218 Davidson, N.C. 28036Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

are honor-bound to enforce. If the college administration wants a dry campus, let them do the enforcing — and not
misuse the honor system. There's no excuse for making one man honor bound to enforce another man’s conduct.

Wallace W. Plowden, Jr.
Davidson College

Gresham

Dear Editor:

After scanning the editorial page of last week’s DAVIDSONIAN to see what new insights were being offered on the current
problems of D. C., I thought a few comments might be justified. It seems that perhaps the new Editor-in-Chief doesn't
have the same style as his fireballing predecessor. As the current editor heaved his latest blasts at Harrington’s column and
the Student Council's statement, it appeared that we now have on the mound what is poetically described in baseball terms
as a “Junkman.”

After the editor had ridiculed his editorial colleague for wasting 1150 words in diatribe, he then proceeded to slide in
500 words of his own concerning council action. I believe that his criticisms need some rebuttal.

The first of these criticisms is that the council's statement fails to come to grips with all the details of
the social question. Upon reading the council's statement one finds that the council’s statement recognizes the scope of the problem,
but has tried to limit its consideration to one area — that of delayed rush and pledging. This action is
not a failure to meet the problem but an attempt to clarify views on one important area of it.

Next a question of semantics arises as the council is taken to task for misconstruing the faculty’s action on rushing
and pledging. It seems that the terms rushing and pledging are in question here. He states that the faculty action
mentions delayed pledging not delayed rush, and that total elimination of rush from the next school year is not proposed
in the wording of the faculty report. However, if one reads Article 1 of the faculty action, which recommends that
“... no member of the class of 1969 may pledge a national Greek letter social fraternity during the academic year
1965-66", and Article 6, section d, which states that, “... the Social Life Evaluating Committee is specifically requested to present
a recommendation to the faculty by the February meeting of 1966 with regard to the wisdom of sophomore rush in
1966-67," meaning is evident.

While the cry of “undue financial burden” may be dramatic, it is also factual in that the council was informed
that three houses would be affected, at least one of these seriously. This information came from the data of the
Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life.

The editor then adds a touch of levity as he reasons that there is something unusual about council action since
the president of the council (not a voting member) endorsed the immediate recommendations of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee which do
favor sophomore rush. Since this action was taken before the new president assumed the duties of his office, and was
an action previous to the Faculty Committee’s report, there seems to be no foundation to this argument.

It seems almost ironic that he closes his editorial with an admonishment that, “... all groups and parties examine each
idea in this matter closely and impartially. Ignorance of the facts, whether intentional or not, can serve no good.” If
you're going to throw a curve, Mr. Editor, don’t hang it on the corner.

Johnny Gresham
Davidson College

Wooten

Dear Editor:

According to The Comparative Guide of American Colleges and Universities, Davidson ranks in the highly selective category, a group which
includes such outstanding educational institutions as Haverford, Duke, Stanford, and thirty-five other well-known colleges and universities throughout the country. Of
these thirty-eight, only five require students to participate in an ROTC program. These are Cornell, Lehigh, Middlebury, Worcester Polytechnic Institute,
and, of course, Davidson. None of the institutions in the very selective category, the group which ranks above Davidson, including
Amherst, Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, etc., requires its students to enter an ROTC program. In North Carolina, there are
only two colleges which require ROTC: these are Davidson and North Carolina A. and T. Evidently, required ROTC is not
a mark of academic excellence. Indeed, if it were, it would seem to me as though those schools which are
considered to be truly outstanding (e.g. Harvard and Amherst) would require it of their students. Also, let's hope that Davidson
doesn't rank on the same plane with North Carolina A. and T.

Cecil W. Wooten, III
Davidson College

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Editor's note: This is the first of a two-part column relating to the broad topic, Davidson College. This week's article
will be concerned with viewing the college as it is today. Two weeks from today we will attempt to define
the college as it could be sometime in the future.

Davidson College is a dying institution. It is dying for many specific reasons: glaring weaknesses in the fields of sociology,
political science; narrow-minded attitude of protecting the student body through required religious exercises and prohibition of liquor on the campus;
a completely inadequate library; a social caste system which thrives upon stereotypes; and a large number of other shortcomings which
come to our attention daily. But Davidson College is dying for a much more general reason: the powers that control
the direction of this college have refused and continue to refuse to gear the college to the sweeping sociological and
intellectual changes that are stirring all around us. The College has simply given itself to the past—the past decades that
have brought it recognition as one of the outstanding small colleges in the South.

In the first place, being even the best of the small colleges in the South does not place Davidson in
very outstanding company. The simple fact is that there are no outstanding small colleges in the South. In fact, the
University of North Carolina is the only school we would consider to be outstanding. Perhaps Duke, Virginia, and Vanderbilt deserve
some consideration. But Davidson does not come close to any of these schools, the fact that it is a small
college notwithstanding.

CONTENT

Davidson College is simply content. It is content producing well-rounded men and sending them back to church and community. It
is content to pamper and protect young minds for four years. It is content to stay in the safe middle-of-the-road,
and yet remain aloof and isolated from the confusing and fast-moving world around it. Worst of all, Davidson College is
content with its tradition.

I had the unfortunate task of writing to a National Merit Scholar and outstanding basketball player from Indiana this week
about Davidson. I had been asked by a friend to encourage him to come to Davidson. It seems the boy
wanted to be a minister. I could only tell him that he would probably regret ever coming to Davidson. Here
he would encounter an atmosphere which stifles intellectualism, creativity, and social concern. He would encounter distrust which kills incentive and
administrative paternalism which simply prevents growing up.

LIBERAL ARTS

That boy would have found at Davidson anything but a good liberal-arts college. For one thing, there are too many
pre-medical students here for this to be a liberal-arts college. Two hundred and twenty members of the student body are
“pre-med,” involved in extremely rigorous courses of memorization and vomiting facts on reviews. Such a method of learning has had
a damnable effect on the rest of the curriculum. These two hundred and twenty are, for the most part, not
liberally educated, simply because they spend three-fourths of their time grinding through chemistry and biology courses and filling in the
gaps with crip courses in sociology, political science, geography, and certain Bible offerings. Not that they are the only ones
who waste their time dabbling in the abundance of inane courses at this college; we are all guilty.

SOCIAL ATMOSPHERE

The boy from Indiana would have also found a social atmosphere at Davidson College which, at best, defies description. It
is such a poor system that exclusive, intellect-numbing fraternities are the main attraction. He would find a social life that
centers around three pitiful dance-weekends; weeks are long and dull. “Social life” is a hurried thing on Saturday night.

DIRECTION

The most sickening thing about Davidson is that no one seems to know just where it is we are going,
much less how or when we are going to get there. The illustrious trustees showed their astounding ignorance and lack
of direction during their weekend holiday here last Friday. They couldn’t decide where to go, so they set off in
both directions by dropping the faculty vow on the one hand and affirming the importance of fraternities on the other.
Trustee Patterson didn’t even know fraternity men drank liquor with young ladies, and a member of the Trustee Committee on
Religious and Social Life, which was considering the fraternity question, hadn’t even bothered to find out what the Fraternity Evaluation
Committee’s report said!

ADMINISTRATION

This wandering-around-in-the-fog is most clearly seen at the top of the administrative pyramid of the college. In most places, one
of two men is looked to for direction in leading a college: the president and the dean of the faculty.
These posts at Davidson are filled by Davidson graduates, men who were educated in the Gentleman Tradition. They are men
who, while obviously hampered by problems of raising money and placating various factions among trustees and alumni, are instructed to
keep things running smoothly and continue in the Davidson tradition. Until new leadership is found, or until the genuinely fine
men can be released from the strictures of preserving tradition and conserving existing structures and attitudes, Davidson College will continue
to die a slow and painful death.
