FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

MODERN FOLK QUARTET

“Platters,” Jazz, Folk Groups To Entertain For Homecoming

By PRICE CAMERON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The entertainment for the 1965 Davidson Homecoming weekend, Oct. 22-24, will feature The Platters, a new style folk quartet, a swinging rag-time band, two great dances, and a pack of vicious Wildcats out to overrun VMI. Also included in the weekend's activities will be early morning (3:30-4:30) buffet style breakfasts, served in the Union for those dance-wearied bodies who remained on campus.

IFC To Present Miss NC At Game

The 1965 Miss North Carolina, Penny Clark of Sanford, will be a special guest at the Davidson Homecoming festivities. Jim Terry, president of the Interfraternity Council, announced that Miss North Carolina would arrive at 5 p.m. Oct. 22, and stay until after the football game. All her expenses will be paid by the IFC.

“Bring Folksongs Up To Date”

HOMECOMING SATURDAY

Modern Folk Singers To Perform In Concert

The Modern Folk Quartet will be featured in the Homecoming Concert on Oct. 23 at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The quartet uses modern musical techniques to bring folk songs up to date. Its fresh approach, in the quartet's words, “gives away none of the guts, drive, and excitement inherent in folk music.” The quartet's repertoire is extremely varied, and as one critic says, “Phrases such as beautiful blend, new sound, and great vigor just barely describe what the MFQ is doing.”

Cyrus Faryar, a guitarist and chief spokesman for the group, was born in Iran. He learned to play the guitar out of sheer boredom while navigating a yacht in the Persian Gulf. Ending up in Honolulu in 1959, he became the proprietor and sole performer of the city’s Greensleeve Coffeehouse. In 1961 Faryar joined Dave Guard, formerly of the Kingston Trio, in forming the Whiskey Hill Singers. After many crossings of the U.S., Faryar returned to Hawaii and began experimenting with some new ideas, some of which are now implemented in the MFQ.

Tad Diltz, tenor and banjo player for the quartet, ended up singing for the West Point Choir after spending much of his childhood and adolescence in Europe and the Orient. He became friends with Faryar on a trip to Hawaii. Chip Douglas, the baritone, was raised on a Hawaiian sugar plantation. He plays just about anything that even resembles a musical instrument. Having already performed and recorded with The New Christy Minstrels, Les Baxter's Balladeers, Travis Edmundson, and The Easy Riders, Jerry Yester added his banjo and guitar talents to the existing threesome to complete the quartet.

Warren Will Play Lead In Drama Production

John Warren, a freshman from Mount Airy, has been chosen to play the lead in the drama department's production of Green Grow the Lilacs, which will be given Freshman Parents’ Weekend, Nov. 11-13. Mrs. Dave Fagg will play opposite Warren, and she will share the dual female lead with Mrs. Allen Wolf. Supporting Mrs. Fagg and Mrs. Wolf will be Miss Pat Whitley. Don Davis, a senior from Waynesville, has the part of the villain. Green Grow the Lilacs, written by Lynn Riggs, is set in the Oklahoma territory in 1900. It is the play upon which the musical, Oklahoma!, was based.

As Rupert Barber, drama director, stated, “It is the story of a kind of people and their simple way of life, a life which disappeared, never to return again.” Barber pointed out that the simplicity of the plot and action in the play is very deceptive. He emphasized the great amount of work that will be required to develop the richness of the play, and he was most enthusiastic about the possibilities which it presents.

The cast of the play is large, and response to the call for tryouts was good. Members of the freshman class will carry the majority of the supporting roles. There are also a number of smaller women's parts that have been filled by local volunteers. Dave Jones, a freshman from Paoli, Pa., Blake Anderson, a freshman from Virginia Beach, Va., and John Bailey, a junior from Danville, Ky., will complete the list of characters with considerable parts in the play. Members of the cast have already begun to work on their roles.

Bill Bondurant, director of alumni activities, told the IFC Monday about luncheon plans for Homecoming. An alumni-faculty-student banquet is scheduled for noon, Oct. 23. Tables will be set in the basement of Chambers Building and in the adjacent parking lot. Student tickets at 75 cents per person will be sold through the fraternities and the student union. Alumni tickets, which cost $1.50, should be purchased in advance.At the alumni information center, Bondurant commented, “The college is subsidizing the expenses for the banquet: it will be a good chance for students to meet alumni.” 

Those straggling back from the various afterparties, “This breakfast idea is an innovation to the Davidson dance weekend,” remarked Dan Campbell, chairman of the Social Council. “Most people are usually hungry after partying all night. In past years, however, there wasn’t much that could be done to alleviate their hunger. Having after-dance breakfasts this homecoming seems like a good idea, and we (the Council) hope that everyone will take advantage of them.”

MAX MORATH Artist Series To Host Original Rag Quartet

The Artist Series will present Max Morath with the Original Rag Quartet at 8:15 p.m., Oct. 15, in Chambers Auditorium. The group of musicians was formed by rag-piano player Max Morath in mid-1964, and played its debut club engagement at New York's famous Village Vanguard. The New York Post commented on the entertainment: “It is superb, it is brilliant, it is heart-stopping, and it’s fun.” 

“Morath and his cohorts are not only fine musicians and warm entertainers,” said another observer, “but are innovators. They’ve seized on a fresh approach to a wonderful music that's been neglected.” The Quartet performances combine the music of the turn of the century within a spoken framework of modern humor and satire. Rare and colorful stereoptical slides of the era provide hilarious glances at the past. Their music ranges the broad band of true ragtime styles—cakewalks, classic rags, syncopated songs and shouts, in spirited vocal and instrumental arrangements that, according to one listener, “reflect the charm and vitality of the past, while incorporating the enthusiasm and showmanship of the present.”

Director of the College Union, C. Shaw Smith, who has heard the group in Denver, Lexington, Pittsburgh, and Charlotte, remarked, “Every time they have been excellent.”

“They are particularly wonderful for college audiences,” Smith continued. “I am delighted that they are coming to Davidson, and I am especially pleased at the recognition the Artist Series has given to ragtime as an art form by presenting Morath’s Quartet.”

Davidson Alumni Director, Bill Bondurant, was so impressed with the Original Rag Quartet when he saw it in Charlotte, that he has booked it for the American Alumni Council District Conference, for which Davidson College will be the host this January.

After the Artist Series concert (beginning at 8:15 p.m.), in which Max Morath and his ragtime quartet present the entertainment, the College Union will sponsor a dance in the Union, lasting from 11 till 3 a.m. Dave Powell, member of the Union Social Committee, said that the dance will probably have a “Heaven-Hell” theme. “Heaven” will be complete with dry ice clouds swirling around to the beat of soft and romantic music. “Hell,” downstairs (or up, wherever it may be), will feature flaming red lights and blaring favorites from the Congo. “The Enchanters,” the combo which provided the supper music for the Queens-Davidson mixer this fall, has been booked for the “Hell” dance.

Kickoff for the Davidson-VMI football game will be at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon, following the annual alumni dinner. An after-game buffet will be served from 5 till 6 in the cafeteria.

At 7:30 Saturday night, “The Platters” and the Modern Folk Quartet will hold a three-hour concert. “The Monzas” will play at the combo party which follows. For those who'd rather sit, movies will be shown at the Union throughout the remainder of the night and into the early morning. The second after-dance breakfast will conclude a very full schedule for what should prove to be an exciting weekend.

The young bucks of America go clean-white-sock in the Adler stretch of the century: new ShapeX. Kick up your status at Adler’s 100th birthday in the first cotton crew ever spiraled around Spandex to absorb all pressure from all ten toes. The first sock to go to any length to please you. So giving it takes on all sizes 9 to 14. ShapeX: in white and 9 great colors. Get Clean-White-Sock through and through. Put all your feet in ShapeX. Stay in shape for just one buck. THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO. ADLER & SONS OF CUMBERLAND MILLS, MAINE.