Che Hauidsontan

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Tough Shoes

With a great deal of challenge aforethought we accept the well-polished reins of THE DAVIDSONIAN handed over by outgoing editor-in-chief Charles Dibble. Unfortunately, Editor Dibble left us no hints on composing our first editorial; otherwise, he did vacate some giant shoes which are going to be mighty tough to fill. One man alone cannot fill those shoes. Only with the capable staff—from associate editors to general reporters—that is sharing the weekly responsibilities with us would we dare consider the mammoth job ahead.

The foremost problem ahead, practically speaking, is getting the paper out “on time.” This year’s 50 percent increase to six pages has combined with other unforeseeable obstacles to create a complex problem that may demand several weeks to solve. Another change to improve the quality of THE DAVIDSONIAN is a special features page which we hope to inaugurate before the end of the year. Every other week one page will be devoted to an examination of some aspect directly or indirectly concerning Davidson. Through this medium, we hope to present a fresh approach and appearance to the paper.

Lastly, we intend to pursue a conscientious editorial policy along the lines of individual freedom and initiative which the students of this college have entrusted to us. We have no qualms about differences of opinions and solicit comments from readers at any time.

We read with interest the remarks of Jonathan Daniels, editor of the Raleigh News and Observer, in a recent issue of Saturday Review. “There is not now and never has been any one model of the personal journalist or the crusading editor. Many of those of the past would look as awkward on marble pedestals as some do now with prizes in their hands or framed awards on their walls... . Not all, of course, were virtuosos of verbal violence. “As much of the impression of the press on American history has been made with sugar as with vinegar... . “There will always be crusading newspapers and editors. The weakest and strongest papers and editors are inescapably crusaders. Mediocrity gets its message across. Timidity can be taught, and in too many towns it is being taught... . “But, actually few things change in the character of the American press ... There will always be Washingtons who wince and rant at abuse and Jeffersons who hold to their faith in freedom despite freedom’s faults. And there will also always be editors incapable of flame and force in the use of freedom. “But—and it is the great and precious but—there will always be men word-armed and word-ready, in the tradition of the crusading editors of the past. Impertinent often, pugnacious always, unintimidated by power, uncaptured by conformity, they will be at the barricade of America battling. The meaning of this land will be lost when their spirit is gone.”

The illustrious Mr. Daniels has defended his breed well. We accept the call to responsible journalism and aspire to reach the standards set before us.

Reconstruction

To the off-campus reader of these pages during the past few months, it must be evident that much thought concerning the overall value of Davidson’s fraternity system has taken place. And indeed it has taken place. The proportionate amount of printed space devoted to this problem has been large, for hardly any aspect at Davidson so directly affects each student as does the social life provided by the college through the staid Greek system.

Tuesday the faculty will receive the report of the Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life, which has been studying the fraternity evaluation for nearly three weeks. The concern and effort shown by the members of the committee during this time is indicative of the impact that their recommendation will have. Hardly anyone dares to deny that shortcomings permeate the present social structure at Davidson. As discussed in this column in previous weeks, these inadequacies must be corrected. No other proposed solution meets the problem so squarely as does the majority report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee. Such a statement does not come easily, for we disapprove of change merely for the sake of change; but we cringe even more at the blindness of some members of the college community to the crumbling pillars on which the fraternity system now rests. No amount of watered-down mortar is going to correct our social structure now. We hope that the faculty will realize that a half-way solution will only create as many problems as it can possibly solve. This repair job will require mortar with real substance.

Growing Up

Granted that the Commander of the American Legion in Tuesday’s chapel made an asinine defense of the North Carolina Speaker-Ban law, nevertheless the Davidson student body gave the Commander a reception in chapel that was both extremely discourteous and sickeningly childish. If it were a high school audience that howled and heckled the speaker, such behavior at least could be understood in light of the immaturity of the students—but at Davidson, there is no excuse for such behavior.

One of the principal arguments of those who favor a Speaker-Ban law is that college students are too intellectually immature to give Communist propaganda careful consideration and analysis. The “Harry-high-school” antics of the Davidson student body in Tuesday’s chapel must have been an effective reinforcement of this belief in the mind of the Commander. It is really quite remarkable that Davidson students that prattle about giving each man and each idea a chance to be heard should attempt, as was done in Tuesday's chapel, to silence a man’s defense of an idea by mob heckling and ridicule.

Students seem to give only lip service to the concept of intellectual fair play—that each idea should be met with rational argument and at least courteous consideration. Perhaps it is unfair to lay the blame on the entire student body for the blatantly rude treatment given to the Commander. Perhaps only a small minority of students were responsible. But for whoever was responsible, this remains: Intellectual maturity does not consist in using ridicule against unpopular ideas. Intellectual maturity does not consist of using laughter to silence an idea. Only very immature individuals hide in the anonymity of a crowd and attack a man and his ideas through howling and hissing and jeering.

A certain professor was reported to have told his class that he was proud of the student behavior in that chapel. It is a sad commentary on the maturity of some professors that they are willing to give courteous attention only to certain ideas. If anyone should be concerned with the freedom to speak and to be heard and the free rational dissemination of ideas, it should be the college professor. But apparently at least this one man forgot about his commitment to academic responsibility—this one man apparently forgot that this principle of intellectual fair play was the safeguard for dissemination of his own ideas.

We agree that the Commander's presentation violated many principles of English grammar, logic, and common sense. We privately feel that many of his ideas were ridiculous, but this man and his ideas deserved a chance to be heard and polite treatment during this presentation—and the Commander was not given this chance. Intellectual maturity requires that each idea be given a fair and careful consideration—intellectual maturity does not react to disagreeable ideas by heckling and ridicule from the safety of a crowd. There are a good many Davidson students and at least one Davidson professor that still have much intellectual growing-up to do.

ASTERISK

Archaic Davidson College: Safe Place To Send A Boy

By AL CARSON

Now that Spring has returned, it’s time for the revival of that archaic pursuit—criticism of Davidson College. From the beloved, ivy-covered walls of the Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library to those twelve imperiled little houses, derrieres bedecked with daffodils, on Patterson Fraternity Court, Davidson College is the enigma of the century. Here it sits, this institution, smugly nestled in its friendly little hamlet like “The Church in the Valley by the Wildwood,” beckoning “come, come... .” to impressed high-schoolers. “Come to perhaps the...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Lakey's ‘Inspiring’ Words Cause Sophomore To Gag

Dear Editor:

With the inspiring words of Leroy Lakey still ringing in my ears I pause to make one brief comment on the fascinating material presented to us by the second of Tuesday’s chapel speakers. Laws prohibiting libel and slander require that I mask my full impression of this excellent, and I presume typical, representative of the pro-Speaker Ban Law faction. While not a member of any committee or group seeking to have the law repealed and as an out-of-stater who has not given the law detailed attention (apart from an occasional snicker of amazement that any legislature could pass a law condemning a man simply for utilizing such constitutional privileges as taking the Fifth Amendment), still as an individual with at least a shred of intelligence I found it impossible not to guffaw loudly at some of Lakey's statements on Tuesday.

The essential point I wish to question is his desire to shield our impressionable young minds from danger. While Mr. Lakey does not feel that college students are capable of distinguishing the dangers of communism without the help of the North Carolina Legislature, he takes for granted that we, although students ourselves, in reality are discriminating enough, are intelligent enough to distinguish the dangers of communism without the help of the North Carolina Legislature. But if this is the case and of course it is, then why the need to gag communist speakers? Only through the exercise of our heritage of freedom can democracy prove superior to totalitarianism. The real danger comes when state legislatures introduce such methods of thought control as those...supported by Mr. Lakey. No matter how well intended, the gag law stinks. HOBS ALLAN Davidson College Snow

Dear Editor:

It would be foolish to suppose that the much maligned Tuesday chapel speaker was of the caliber of his opponent, but regardless of the quality or delivery of his side of the issue, we, the students, owed him our respect. The decency within us should demand a more courteous reception. I plead no innocence in this aberration and appeal primarily to those who engage in such abuse as was leveled at our speaker. Let us act in a manner more becoming of our image as gentlemen. Place yourselves in the position of a speaker on a strange campus, following a man of considerable renown, attempting to defend a somewhat unpopular viewpoint. Secure in our chapel seats, this thought may never have occurred to us.

RON SNOW Davidson College

Dear Editor:

Best college in the South and one of the best in the nation. Come to the school that only in recent years has erased "a safe place to send your boy" from its financial documents. Today, Davidson College survives on its reputation. The institution has retreated from the front lines of educational progress, if, indeed, it ever joined those ranks. Deception is the weapon Davidson uses—unabashed deception of the national educational community and self-deception. The college is, at present, undeniably distant from that number of institutions counted as "the best." While educational theory and practice are in the throes of tumultuous innovation, Davidson lies satisfied, languishing in its isolation. It prefers to remain static amid the din of educational acceleration. Rather than looking optimistically to a promising future, Davidson continues to strengthen its ties with the past.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

The most unsurmountable stumbling block impeding Davidson’s path is the jaded, conservative Board of Trustees, who, upon their return to the campus, want to see it "just as it was when I was here." Are these gentlemen of the Board truly blind to the erupting influences affecting modern education's requirements and goals? Their dogged retention of Davidson's fabled faculty oath supplies the answer to that question. Within the college itself, there are a multitude of glaring weaknesses. Visiting scholars are continually astounded that there exists in the twentieth century a college of Davidson's reputed stature still ordering required attendance at chapel-assembly programs and compulsory church attendance. Quaint tradition is not to be entirely castigated, but required worship is an ultra-detrimental link to the Puritan past. The alleged flies, flits, whatever you shall call them, enrolled at Davidson are a criticism laid at the doormat of the Admissions Committee. The weakness of that office rests, however, not with its acceptance of that band, but with its insistence upon accepting virtually no one who does not fit into the worn mold of the proverbial Davidson gentleman. There is no Bohemian element on this campus, no group of crusaders, no one who cannot remain satisfied within the mold. Admissions procedures ensure exclusion of any "risks" which might damage the image. The Admissions Committee will not indulge itself to look beyond those rising SAT scores, that ever-swelling academic average. It has, of its own volition, trapped itself in a tradition which demands annual increases in those verbal and mathematical numbers. Where is that purportedly "well-rounded" student body? It is not at Davidson College.

CURRICULUM

Foundations of the college are multi-fold, but the ultimate criteria for scholarship resides in the college curriculum. Under one bridge reaching from teacher to student rests the ogre of Davidson’s academic inferiority. In the area where an outstanding college should excel, this college fails. Where are Davidson's courses in geology, in astronomy, in Oriental languages, in non-survey contemporary literature? They do not exist. Further, vast numbers of courses are offered only in alternating years. Even excusing failure through omission (which is, in a highly-rated college, inexcusable), the existing curriculum deserves at least as much critical scrutiny of existing institutions. There is an institution on the Davidson campus which deserves at least as much critical consideration as the fraternity system: this is the ROTC department. I do not object to the ROTC program as such; in fact, I think that it is a great opportunity for those students who wish to pursue advanced ROTC. What I do bitterly object to is the fact that all students, regardless of their plans concerning advanced ROTC, are required to enter the program for two years. Seeing that the ROTC department can be maintained on the Davidson campus only if at least one hundred students sign up for the program during their freshman year, is it not true that those students who are not planning to enter the advanced program are being "sacrificed" to this same program? Is it not true that those students are required to undergo the program for two years merely for the sake of preserving the advanced program? Perhaps the college receives some financial benefit from the government for everyone enrolled in the ROTC program. If this be the case, this is even a more deplorable reason than the first one that I mentioned. In either case, those students who do not plan to enter the advanced program are being used by the college. If the fraternity system, a system which adversely affects only one-fourth of the student body, is to be criticized so thoroughly, I feel that the ROTC department, which affects the entire college, should at least receive a little consideration.

CECIL WOOTEN Davidson College

While dying trees are sheared in front of the Chambermaids, behind those paragons of virginity, the student of sociology or Latin must pursue his major in a department staffed by only one professor. If he desires study in Greek, Spanish, or political science, he must be satisfied with only two professors. In order to alleviate the "missing courses problem," why hasn't the college offered a reading program exercised under the supervision of a qualified professor, to gap the void left by course omission? The student could study a basic curriculum, write a paper, an exam, or both, and receive quality point and semester hour credit. The solution, admittedly a stop-gap measure, would be feasible economically, and it would stimulate both student and teacher. There is no justification with which Davidson College can salve its conscience. The stagnant waters of this institution are growing mossy and rockbound, soon to be impenetrable.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N.C.