**CARSON DEFENDS TERRY BREAKS**

(See Page Two) (See Page Five)

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

NUMBER FOUR VOL. LV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1965

IFC Partially Lifts Ban

(Photo by Todd)

Approval Urged Before Visit

The Interfraternity Council agreed this week to allow fraternity members to enter freshmen dorms when they find it absolutely necessary
in carrying out specified duties such as ROTC contacts or DAVIDSONIAN assignments.

RICHARDSON SCHOLARS TALK ON AMERICAN LIFE

From Left To Right, Goytie, Jorchel, Rytsela And Adachi

Foreigners Compare America, Homelands

By JOE SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Four Richardson Scholars gave their candid opinions of America at Open End Wednesday night. Erhard Jorchel of Germany, Klaus Rytsala
of Finland, Hiromi Adachi of Japan and Daniel Goytia of Argentina agreed there existed in America less individual freedom than
they found in their home countries. Compulsory attendance at classes or religious exercises was almost unknown to them before coming
to Davidson, and though most universities in their homelands are government-supported, there is little government intervention in school affairs. Adachi
and Rytsala admitted that studies here are harder than they had expected. In Japan a student has to work hard
in high school to gain admittance to a college, but less work is required to graduate than in America. According
to Goytia, Latin American students are not as well-versed in mathematics and natural sciences as American students, but are better
prepared in social studies.

In the question-and-answer period that followed the discussion, the Richardson Scholars were asked about the political and social interests of
students in their own countries. It was generally agreed that dating was more reserved than in America. In Germany there
is less formal dating, but more casual meetings in clubs and restaurants. In Latin America, morality is more strict than
in the United States or Europe and there is little or no dating as Americans know it. Political freedom is
common to most schools in these students' countries. Although nearly all are government supported, they maintain their academic freedom. According
to Jorchel: “A German university often takes pride in being thought an asylum of free thought.”

All agreed that a wide variety of political opinions could be found on the faculty of most schools.

RITSCHL ON THE FUTURE

“The Advantage Of Hope”

Ritschl Views Church Today

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“The answers of the past, of the Reformers, are not sufficient in strength and depth for the questions of the
present and future.” Thus began Dr. Dietrich Ritschl, 1965-66 Otts Lecturer, in his third lecture, “The Dimensions of the Present:
Past and Future.” Dr. Ritschl listed these conclusions from the preceding presentation: 1) Serving God is not the same as
serving man; 2) the Old Testament view of God as a political reality who called a nation, gave law, land,
and kingship still holds; 3) the actions of Christians are not of higher value than non-Christians.

The consensus of the council at its meeting Monday night was that all contacts of this sort should be made
through hall counselors when possible. If a hall counselor cannot be found to clear the visit then the discretion of
the upperclassman is to be trusted. It should be emphasized, the council stated, that an honest attempt should be made
to inform the hall counselor of the nature of the business involved and contacts should be kept to a minimum
and be of short duration.

Discussion of the problem of fraternity men entering freshman dorms was prompted by Mike Booe's question asking if “there was
any need to qualify specifically the regulation which was effected to deter ‘dirty rush’ by restricting all fraternity contact in
freshman dorms.”

Freshmen Propose Changes

By MIKE BATES
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Freshman Council adopted four recommendations to the Interfraternity Council for additional regulations. A committee of Freshman Council members had been
appointed at the meeting Sept 29 in order to draw up the proposals. This committee, whose chairman was Bayard Miller,
presented these recommendations at the Council's regular Wednesday meeting.

1. That freshmen be allowed to “hitch-hike” in fraternity members’ cars when returning to campus after 11 p.m.
2. That freshmen’s dates be allowed to ride to and from Davidson in fraternity members' cars.
3. That acceptance of bids take place several days after classes resume in January. (This proposal is to permit freshmen
to know which fraternities other freshmen are pledging.)
4. That the IFC or its representatives meet with the Freshmen and fraternity members.

Tom Covington Defends IFC Rush Regulations

Problems involved in the institution of the new rush system have prompted Tom Covington, assistant dean of students, to submit
to THE DAVIDSONIAN a statement which asks that all persons concerned reason “through the spirit of the law” and act
accordingly. Covington states that while “there is room for criticism of the current rules,” there are also many areas in
which the IFC's system is worthy of support on the part of both freshmen and fraternity members. Covington’s statement in
its entirety as presented to THE DAVIDSONIAN is as follows:

“The IFC has been charged with a rather difficult task: establishing and enforcing rules for a new, untried rushing system.
THE DAVIDSONIAN has taken the IFC to task for writing rules which, on first reading, appear superficial and totally unreasonable,
and while to some extent THE DAVIDSONIAN'S criticisms are warranted, the real ‘culprit’ in this whole area is the fraternity
man and freshman who chooses to exert pressure on the IFC via the technicalities of the law rather than reasoning
through the ‘spirit of the law.’ By ‘spirit of the law’ I mean the attachment of similar concern and value
to the implications of the current rules. There would also appear to be ample room for these same rules to
be supported—in ‘spirit’—by the fraternity man and the Freshman Class. For example, no individual fraternity has formally gone on record
as endorsing these rules, and while this action may be presumed through the IFC representative, I doubt he would object
to such formal overt support. Similarly, it is presumed that the Freshman Council could take some initiative on this front
and formally support the IFC in its effort to work through, enforce, and evaluate this new system. It would appear
obvious that the surest way for fraternity man and freshman to undermine the IFC's efforts—and the current rush structure—would be
to fail to exercise this endorsement whether formal or implied.”

‘Punch’ Editor To Open Series

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Bernard Hollowood, the editor of Punch and first Reynolds Lecturer of 1965-66, will speak on campus twice next Tuesday. A
noted British author and cartoonist, Hollowood will address the student body in chapel Tuesday morning and again that evening at
8:15 in Hodson Hall. Students can meet and talk with him at a coffee in the Union following chapel. His
topic is undecided now, but Dean Frontis W. Johnston, chairman of the Reynolds Lectureship Program, predicts that it will deal
with “economic and political matters.”

Hollowood has been editor of Punch since 1958. Sometimes called “the British New Yorker,” Punch is a humor magazine that
comments on contemporary political, economic and social issues. Hollowood was educated at St. Paul’s College in Cheltenham and received a
degree in economics from the University of London. From 1932-1943 he served as a lecturer in economics in the School
of Commerce, Stoke-on-Trent, and at Loughborough College. Since then he has served as a staff member of The Economist, a
research officer in the Council of Industrial Design and a newspaper cartoonist. He is a member of the Court of
Governors in the London School of Economics and has written a number of books. Hollowood's visit is largely the product
of efforts of Dr. Ernest

Social Council Plans Two ‘Little’

The Social Council will sponsor a water ski show and barbecue at the Lake Campus tomorrow, followed by a combo
party and square dance later in the evening. Next Saturday the Council will again subject the freshmen to the mercy
of the computer by having a mixer with Salem. The Charlotte Water Ski Club will be the participants in the
Water Show. The acts will be performed even in the event of cold weather, according to Dan Campbell, chairman of
the Social Council. “The spectators may get cold, but the performers are used to it,” he said.Patterson, professor of economics.
Dr. Patterson promises that man Council in order to interpret the rush regulations. Miller and David Powell, freshman adviser, will
present these proposals at the next IFC meeting. Powell expressed optimism concerning a favorable response by the IFC to these
recommendations. Other business at Wednesday’s meeting included the Freshman Social Council's announcement of the creation of a travel information desk
to be located next to the regular information desk in the Union. This desk, open each night from 6:30 to
7:30 p.m. beginning next week, will have a large collection of current timetables for buses, trains, and airlines. Also, rate
tables for the various car rental agencies will be available.

Mark Guest House
The reservation system for students’ dates at the College Guest House has been changed due to a shortage of rooms.
Effective immediately, all reservations for the Guest House must be made through the office of Mrs. Peter Nichols, supervisor of
dormitories. Reservations may not be made more than a week in advance. This change is due to the increasing number
of official guests which must be accommodated. Reservations already made for the Guest House will be honored. The Guest House
is full and can take no reservations for the weekends of October 9, 16, and 23.

The skiers will be wearing wet-suits,” remarked Campbell. The combo party will take place in front of Chambers, weather permitting.
Otherwise, it will be in the Morrison Room of the Union. The “Manhattans” will provide music from 6:30 p.m. until
10:30. A square dance, led by Pee Wee Davis and the Bluegrass Ramblers, will be going on simultaneously in the
north parking lot of Chambers. (If it is too cold outside, Chambers banquet hall will be used instead). At 10:30
everyone will congregate in front of Chambers to see the Blue Ridge Mountain Dancers, world champion square dancers. This group
has been on the Ed Sullivan Show and has participated in the Newport Folk Festival. “Anyone who has never seen
good mountain ‘clogging’ should be sure to be there,” commented Campbell. Their performance will last until midnight. Buses will leave
from Queens at 1:30 p.m. Saturday to bring to Davidson the dates of those who signed up in the Union
for the transportation. The buses will be waiting in the south parking lot to take the girls back to Queens
at 11:30. A bus will leave from the south parking lot of Chambers at 3 to take students and dates
to the lake. As many trips as necessary will be made. The Davidson-William and Mary football game will be the
main event Oct. 16. The Council will serve box lunches for their own meal. The combo party in the basement
of Chambers with “The Embers” will begin at 7:30 p.m. and end at 11:30.

Alumni Association To Meet Next Week
Prominent leaders of the Davidson College Alumni Association will converge on the campus next weekend for the Alumni Leaders Conference.
Representatives from some 33 chapters of the association will be present for the two-day briefing session. The annual conference seeks
to review the progress of the college during the past year and to make plans for the coming year. “My
experience is that it (the conference) is a fast-moving program which will impress the alumni leaders,” explained Bill Bondurant, director
of alumni activities. Alumni leaders will arrive Friday afternoon. Recreation, including sailing at the Lake Campus, is scheduled. After dinner
Friday night, Dr. Earl R. MacCormac will speak to the group about the Humanities program. Saturday morning will be devoted
to small discussion groups and a major planning session concerning the Ford Foundation grant. The entire group will attend the
William and Mary game on Saturday afternoon.

Dr. Ritschl believes the chief difference between the attitudes of Christians and non-Christians to be their outlooks on the past.
“The Christian can look to the past and admit with honesty that it was full of evil. But the Christian
knows of forgiveness, and can look to the future without fear.” The non-Christian, however, while also honest in his outlook
on the past, can be afraid of the future. Or, as in the case of the USSR, can hope in
the future, but be afraid of the past. “The Christian has the advantage of hope,” continued Ritschl. “His ultimate hope
reflects his lesser hopes and rules them. If one hope fails, he does not give up.” In a language of
twisted and reversed modifiers, Dr. Ritschl explained how a Christian can be properly involved. “He must hope backwards that the
past can be changed in relation to the present. And he must re-member forward, speak of the future only in
the language of the past and see the situation of the present in the dimensions of the past and future.”
A Christian refuses to accept as final humiliation, hate, or disaster. Divisions are not ultimate because there is hope. Because
there is forgiveness, he can forget the evils of the past, shackled to him. “Christians,” Ritschl declared, “are uniquely equipped
to interpret the past—through the Bible.” However, he reminded, Christianity is not the schoolmaster of politicians or men. It does
provide an area and a scheme for service. “Service requires courage,” he said, and Christ is the source of that
courage.

Ed Armfield was elected by the Junior Class Tuesday to fill the Honor Court vacancy created by Lloyd Davidson's absence
from school this year. Armfield collected 62 votes in the final runoff against Don Carroll, who pulled 56 votes. In
the third day of balloting on Monday, Carroll led with 48 votes to Armfield’s 37. Paul Curlee was eliminated in
this runoff with 26 votes. The election began Sept. 30 with 16 juniors competing. Huck Berry, Ralph Bowlin, Gary DeVane,
Buddy Durham, Jim Shackleford, Hobs Allan, Bob Cameron, Jim Houser, David McCorkle and Duff Armfield were eliminated on Thursday. Joe
Jelks, Peter Van Dorsten and Brooks Sheldon were eliminated on Friday. Armfield, who will become a permanent member of the
Court, will take the oath of office at the next meeting of the Court, probably on Monday. He will swear
to “be honor bound to report any violation of the Honor System . . . or any other provision of
the Constitution which comes under my observation.”

Dr. Patterson promises that the lectures will be “a unique experience for the students.” “I have been reading Mr. Hollowood's
editorials for years,” he said. “Last summer when he published one on the international monetary problem, I wrote him a
letter saying that it was unfair and un-American, and I hoped un-English, for an editor of a ‘humor magazine’ to
write so lucidly and intelligibly about economic matters. He replied and told me that he was going to be in
the U.S. this fall ‘to preach to the heathen and unconverted—strictly as a humorist, of course.’ I wrote back and
asked him to come to Davidson because we had more unreconstructed heathen and unconverted than any other area in the
world. As a result of all this, he’s agreed to come. Since then I've found out that he has a
degree in economics and he publishes books on the subject. But that merely proves that the American education system is
better than the British, because no self-respecting American university would graduate a PhD in economics who could write so lucidly
and clearly.”

The Reynolds Lectureship Fund was established four years ago through the resources of the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation “to provide
an annual series of distinguished guest authorities in humanities, sciences, arts and philosophy who will be invited to serve as
‘professors in residence’ at Davidson College for periods of from two to three days.”
