FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1965

“You can say that the sophomores ignominiously forfeited,” freshman advisor Dave Powell decreed at 3:15 p.m. Thursday, November 4, 1965.
With that, a most hallowed, ancient Davidson tradition died. Well, actually it’s not really a most hallowed tradition; frankly, most
people don’t care about it. It’s not ancient either, being only 11 years old. And it didn’t really die, because
the sophomores gave it at least a partial resurrection by showing up for a few of the events. However, the
sophomores failed to show for the twelfth annual freshman-sophomore field day track meet.

After firmly establishing that Davidson's sophomore class is composed of characters of questionable lineage and sex, the little band of
freshmen track stars, who eagerly came down to the freshly lined-off track in Richardson Stadium to show off their speed,
strength, and nylon-smooth legs, wandered into the gymnasium to see if their opponents would dare face them on the basketball
court.

The sophomores fielded a rag-tag basketball team composed of ex-varsity prospect (he quit last weekend) Scott Sinnock, Graham, a referee,
four unknowns, and Rich. These six edged the freshmen 51-49 in a see-saw contest that ended frosh hopes for a
clean sweep of the field day. “Sinnock was out of his mind. He scored at least two-thirds of their points,”
Tommy O’Brien, the freshman in charge of yesterday’s fiasco, reported after the game. “Peter Boggs and Mike Dickens looked good
for us.” With that, O’Brien launched into a dissertation on the referees, which remains unprinted due to the efforts of
this paper to remain in existence. Singling out Graham as the mastermind fiend behind the sophomores’ two-point squeaker win, O’Brien
went on to elaborate with an analogy to sex which inferred the refereeing “royally... (censored remark) us.”

Managing to muster a nine-man squad, the sophomores squeaked out another success for the day, edging the fuzzy-faced frosh, two
games to one in volleyball. “We might have won volleyball,” O'Brien lamented. “We had a lead on them in the
third game, then Henry Wilmer started rubbing the ball on his... (another censored remark). Well, after that we were hesitant
to touch the ball, so they beat us by two points in the last game.”

Finally, in an unheard-of show of enthusiasm, ten sophomores showed up for the tug-of-war; but, at last, on the rebound,
the freshmen flexed their rock-hard muscles and pulled out a win. So, freshman-sophomore field day ended with two wins for
both sides—but the first forfeit in its history.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FIVE

‘Cats Lick Recent Wounds, Ready For Winless Lehigh

By DOUG CRISP
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcats of Davidson attempt to get back into the win column tomorrow when they meet the Engineers of Lehigh
University at Richardson Field. Last week Furman beat Lehigh four touchdowns to two, but Lehigh was ahead in the third
quarter. In the second game of the season, Davidson defeated the Paladins 24-0. They are the only team that has
played both Davidson and Lehigh thus far.

The number one ball carrier for the Engineers is Hal Yeich, one of their tri-captains. Jon Rushatz, a sophomore, is
their second leading back. Lehigh had 17 lettermen return this year, but so far have not won a game in
six attempts.

When asked about the practice this week for the upcoming game, Coach Homer Smith said, “The team practices extremely well
all the time, and have been getting better day by day, although a record of three straight defeats would not
suggest that. If the team continues to work the way it has, good things will happen to it.” Smith singled
out several boys as having been outstanding in the past weeks. One was Tommy Dews, who “performed like a champion
every time the ball was in play.” Others were Woody Hill, a senior who, says Coach Smith, “works as hard
as anyone on the team.”

Soccermen Split In Week’s Action

Coach Harry Fogleman’s soccer squad went down 7-0 before a strong team from Pfeiffer Tuesday at Misenheimer, after scratching out
a 1-1 tie with the Citadel on Friday. Relying on an untried formation designed to jam the center of their
forward wall, the Wildcats were unable to contain the Pfeiffer attack.

Harriers Take Win Over HP

Andy Little leads the Wildcat cross country team, fresh from their first victory of the year, 21-34 over High Point,
over the rugged NC State course Monday as runners from this area compete in the state meet at Raleigh.

Little copped first place against High Point by covering the four-mile Davidson course in 22:07, a comparatively slow time compared
to some he has run this year. The competition at the meet this year will be very strong according to
Coach Heath Whittle. “Carolina has quite a team. Duke and Wake Forest are really good this year, too.” Little is
expected to do a fine job in running the four-mile course. His times have improved greatly from last year. He
now holds the second fastest time for the Davidson course with a run of 21:46, the record being 21:28.

GRUBER PREPARES TO POUNCE ON PASS IN PRACTICE
“Gruber Shines As Safety”

By K. D. WEEKS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Renn Gruber, defensive safety man for the ’Cats, was a bright spot in the team’s losing efforts against George Washington
last week. Though almost everything was going the wrong way for the ’Cats, Gruber snared two GW passes from his
safety position. The stalwart coverman has made four key interceptions this season which have helped to prove the Davidson defense
to their opposition. His last two interceptions were particularly outstanding. One stopped a George Washington threat on the Davidson 20-yard
line, and the other gave the ‘Cats possession on the George Washington 35.

Gruber, who values his position as a defensive man, plays behind the defensive halfbacks, called “interceptors.” His “cover-man” spot requires
keen perception and anticipation along with the ability to stop the break-away run, or long bomb pass. Of Gruber's adaptability
to the position, fellow teammate Dick Short commented, “Renn is a tremendous natural athlete, he is as quick as a
cat, and he has good vision... he has all the capabilities a coverman has to have.”

Gruber came to Davidson strictly to play basketball. However, having had experience as a quarterback on his high school team,
he considered the idea of coming back out for the football team. During one of the basketball games his freshman
year, a spectator commented that Gruber looked like a tough football player under the boards. That’s what he has come
to be. “I went out for football my sophomore year and worked out with the defensive team and kept at
it,” commented Gruber himself. “I love defense, it is the best part of the game, it gets in you and
becomes a way of life.” His teammates comment that he knows exactly how to use his six-foot-three-inch frame to make
tackles. “This would make him a good pro-ball player,” commented one of his cohorts.

Your DAVIDSONIAN Unofficial IMAC Standings

Kappa Sigs 11-0
Phi Delts 8-1
Betas 6-1
Sigma Chis 6-2
ATO's 7-3
SAE’s 5-5
Pika’s 4-6
Sig Eps 4-5
Phi Gams 3-6
Sigma Nus 0-8
Indies 2-8
KA 1-7
Pi Kapp 1-8

FOXEY COXEY MISSES BETA BOMB
Mac Otts Pulls In Pass... But Kappa Sigs Still Win 40-38

Sigs Kill Beta Hope, 40-38

By SONNY GRAVES
Davidsonian Sports Writer

As the IMAC’s flickerball season rolls into the final week, the Kappa Sigs have pretty well wrapped up their umpteenth
consecutive championship. In edging the previously undefeated Betas 40-38, the Sigs continued undefeated and with only a single game left
with one of the league’s weaker teams, there is little chance of the Sigs faltering. “Cherub” Garrison was outstanding for
the Sigs and halfback “Pee Wee” Bryant scored his 24th touchdown of the year (apparently an IMAC record). The Betas’
Sam Cathey explained, “We got off to a bad start on the opening kick-off and the first half was all
theirs. They constantly came up with the big plays.”

“Little Evil” Sherrill and Cathey led the Betas, while “Little Dean Burts” Powell as usual spent most of his time
winning friends and influencing people. Part of the defeat was blamed on the Betas’ failure to use their full potential.Their
secret weapons, “Buns” Davis and “Hands” Meschan. In commenting on the battle with the Delts for second place today, Cathey
said that the Betas were going “to start playing from the opening kick-off.” The Sigma Nus upped themselves to tenth
place with a 28-0 mauling of the outmanned Independents (only five players showed). Dave White was outstanding for the Nus
and Jim Clark did a tremendous job rushing for the Indies. The Nus “Little Brother” Burch dropped three passes, but
that was because they had to use a rubber ball since the Delts had stolen the Nus' only leather football.
The KA’s continued to have rough luck in the win column in an otherwise successful season. Tuesday they dropped a
close one to the Pi Kapps 14-12. The contestants seem to have different opinions of the results, the Pi Kapps
saying “We stomped the hell out of them,” while the KA's argued that the other team happened to get two
extra points. The KA’s faltered again Thursday as the Delts “lucked out” 20-0. KA tailback Grey Winfield failed to show
at either game and it was heard that “married life was getting to him.” Wednesday the ATO’s ran over the
Phi Gams 41-25. “Machi Motormouth” Waite led the Taus in scoring. Rufus Adair commented, “all kidding aside, I was outstanding.”
The Phi Gams were unavailable for comment. In the words of a famous philosophical athlete, “We wuz robbed.” So went
the Pike-Machi 21-41. Among the schools running in the meet, open to all four-year colleges in North Carolina, are NC
State, St. Andrews, High Point, Duke, Carolina, and Wake Forest. Last year Davidson was third in the state competition.

Game Thursday. Leaping to a 20-6 lead, the Pikas were victims of bad breaks and inexperienced referees in the second
half. On the sour end of two “trapping the pass” calls, both of which would have won the game, the
Pikas were unable to combat both the refs and the Machis. Star Evins related that the Chis went into the
game with a lackadaisical attitude, fell behind, and had to fight back. Mike Smith played outstanding defense for the Chis.
Both sides agreed that experienced referees would have made a difference, and most observers felt that the Pikas would have
benefited more than the Machis with different referees. Muldoon, “Trish” O'Kelly, and “Micro” Hinnant played well for the Pikas; however,
the Machis won on yardage after a 26-26 regular game tie.

The ‘Cats found Pfeiffer going to the wings and moving the ball well. The ‘Cats did a good job in
the middle with only one of the seven goals coming straight in. The final 7-0 score was no indication of
how the team played as Fogleman commented, “We played a good game but they were just too much. They have
the best team I've seen in the state. They just stood in front of the goal and played with the
ball until they had a shot.” The game was climaxed by Tom Scott. Standing about five feet in front of
his own goal, he became frustrated, picked up the ball, and handed it to a bewildered Kem Anderson who was
playing goalie. “It was the most unusual play I've ever seen,” said Fogleman. “Anderson is still trying to figure out
what happened.” On Friday the ‘Cats managed to be on the long end of a 4-3 score against Appalachian. The
game was “the best game played here in a long time. Both teams played well.” Scoring for the Foglemen were
Juergen Schroder, John “Fuzzy” Flowers, and Glenn Hanes (It was the initial tally of the year for Hanes). The Foglemen
tackled a tough Campbell squad this afternoon in their final home tilt before the Southern Conference Meet, which will be
held here November 19-20.

Sailors Sunk In Regatta

The Davidson sailors dropped to fourth place in tough competition this past weekend in Charleston, beating Old Dominion, while falling
to The Citadel, The College of Charleston, and USC. The Davidson team consisted of Chip Robertson and Chip Bellamy in
A Division, and Yates Fletcher and Tom Kirtley in B Division. However, this was not the only setback that the
team experienced this past week, for it was also announced by the Davidson Board of Trustees that there would be
no intercollegiate competition on Sundays involving Davidson teams. Since sailing regattas are traditionally a Saturday and Sunday affair, this ruling
quite effectively limits the sailors’ competition to the smaller, Saturday-only regattas.

GASKEY & NEILL FLORIST & GIFTS
Phone 662-3681
383-385 N. Mooresville, N.C.

A 4-3 win over Appalachian became frustrated, picked up the ball, and handed it to a bewildered Kem Anderson who
was playing goalie. “It was the most unusual play I've ever seen,” said Fogleman. “Anderson is still trying to figure
out what happened.” On Friday the ‘Cats managed to be on the long end of a 4-3 score against Appalachian.
The game was “the best game played here in a long time. Both teams played well.” Scoring for the Foglemen
were Juergen Schroder, John “Fuzzy” Flowers, and Glenn Hanes (It was the initial tally of the year for Hanes). The
Foglemen tackled a tough Campbell squad this afternoon in their final home tilt before the Southern Conference Meet, which will
be held here November 19-20.

HERTZ Rent-A-Car

Charlotte has inaugurated a new service for selected college students.
Rent A Car From Friday PM to Monday AM
Sedans $4 & 10c per mile, 24 hours $15
Minimum Deposit
Reservations Must Be Called Through Ben Cannon
Belk 272-892-9234

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
Dining and Dancing
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

Main St. now as he did as a sophomore.” Steve Smith, who “is constantly working on improvement,” and captain Pack
Hindsley, who “is as hard a working football player as we have on the field.” Lehigh beat Davidson last year,
13-10, which evened the series at two wins apiece. The ‘Cats have scored 38 points to the opponents’ 48 in
the four games of the series. This year, Davidson is favored to win by 14 points.

Footballers Fall To Powerful GW

Davidson’s Southern Conference hopes were ground into the dust at D.C. Stadium Saturday as the Wildcats lost to the George
Washington Colonials 23-7. The defeat came as the ‘Cats gained only 48 yards rushing while GW's Mike Holloran alone gained
125 yards and scored two of their three touchdowns. When asked about the game Coach Homer Smith remarked, “We faced
a pretty severe test. Every GW defender was a veteran, but we failed our Southern Conference test. We wanted very
much to win this game.” The story of the game lay in ball control. The Colonials’ offense was able to
move the ball throughout the game, while Davidson had to punt 17 times. Only late in the game when Davidson
went to a stop-the-clock strategy, did they effectively move the ball. A couple of breaks, a punt return for a
score and a fumble recovery on Davidson’s 25-yard line, set the Colonials in the lead. In spite of these breaks,
GW had been able to move the ball, and as Coach Smith said, “It is not the team that gets
the breaks that wins but the one that plays the hardest. We were outhit by George Washington. However, I think
we are a better team for having played the game.” Late in the fourth quarter quarterback Jake Jacobsen sparked the
‘Cats to their only TD, which came on a 15-yard toss to Ken Kendall. Jim Terry increased his SC record
to 27 consecutive point-afters on the conversion. The ‘Cats then recovered an onside kick and marched to the 6-inch line
where the game ended. The final gun ended Davidson's Southern Conference adventures for this year at 2-3. All that remain
are four non-conference games: Lehigh, Lafayette, Wofford, and Bucknell.

Kittens Also Fall To GW

The freshman football team suffered its third defeat of the season as Gardner-Webb, the nation’s tenth-ranked junior college team, rolled
to a 29-0 victory Friday. Field position played the most important part in the game as the Wildkittens continually found
themselves deep in their own territory. Rick Simonson and Cliff Duke, who alternated at the quarterback position, were hurried by
the Bulldog defense which allowed them to complete only four passes in 16 attempts. Mike Thornton was the big man
on the ground for the home squad as he chalked up 45 yards in 24 carries. John Schimmel had the
only other substantial yardage, gaining nine yards in five carries.
