VOL. LV The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1965 59 ACCEPTED FOR CLASS OF ‘70 (See Page Four) NUMBER TEN

Faculty Members Strongly Object To Voting Restriction
By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Strong opposition to the action of the Trustees which would prohibit assistant professors and instructors from voting on policy matters at faculty meetings was indicated in a sampling of faculty opinion taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. The proposal seems to find little more favor among associate and full professors, who would not be affected by it, than among instructors and assistant professors, who would lose their votes if the Trustees approve the proposal for a second time when they meet in the spring.

“I am quite opposed to it,” said Dr. Paul Marrotte, associate professor of history, who termed the action “inappropriate.” Dr. Thomas Pinkerton, associate professor of German, reacted similarly, commenting that he could not understand why those members of the faculty who have not attained the rank of associate or full professor should be cut off from voting along with the rest of the faculty. “If we are going to achieve our announced goals,” added Dr. Louise Nelson, assistant professor of economics, “then we need to utilize all the brain power we have here. Brain power is not restricted to associate and full professors. It seems to me a wasteful use of valuable resources to shut off the brain power of assistant professors and instructors.”

A full professor, Dr. James Reid of the geography department, termed the action of the Trustees “extreme.” Several faculty members voiced annoyance with what they termed the “secrecy” surrounding the Oct. 22 action of the Trustees, which was not publicly announced until last Friday. “I think that the disappointment in the faculty concerns the manner in which the action was taken,” commented Charles Cornwell, instructor in English. “It seems to me that there should have been more talk about the whole thing. There seems to be very little effective communication between the faculty and Trustees.”

Despite apparent unity in faculty opposition to the proposal, there is a wide difference of opinion concerning whether or not there should be a limit of some form on faculty voting. Cornwell said he believes there is merit in the idea of limiting the vote to faculty members who have been at Davidson for a certain period of time, such as a semester or a year. Marrotte, who said he thought faculty members who teach at Davidson for only short periods of time should not be allowed to vote, was not sure how this could be worked out so that no one who should be allowed to vote would be prohibited from doing so. “A man may come here as an assistant professor and have a more deeply vested interest in Davidson than a full professor approaching retirement,” Marrotte pointed out.

Reid, who opposes the proposal, also favors some sort of limit on faculty voting. “I think that some restrictive measures are necessary,” he commented. “Several members of the faculty who are here for their first year or who will be here only one or two years have taken the initiative in changing college policy,” he stated. “This would have been more appropriate for those who have been here longer.”

Miss Nelson, representing a somewhat different view, favors allowing all faculty members to vote, as the situation now stands. “It seems to me,” she explained, “that the college should not hire anyone at any rank who is incapable of voting intelligently.” Pinkerton and Hansford Epes, instructor in German, agreed with Miss Nelson in opposing any kind of limit on faculty voting. “I think we need the opinion of those who have taught elsewhere in view of the rapidly changing ideas on the place of the liberal arts college today,” Pinkerton explained. “There has got to be a fair exchange within the faculty.” “People who come here fresh from other schools have good ideas,” commented Epes.

Most faculty members indicated that they feel the best way to prevent final approval of the proposal lies in talking with members of the Board of Trustees in order to explain their objections. “An effort must be made to talk to the Trustees about this,” commented Epes. “This need to sit down and talk was emphasized at the meeting (the informal meeting of the faculty at which the proposal was announced) last Friday. On any matter of such importance to the college there has got to be more communication between faculty, Trustees and students. The success of the vow efforts proves that this does work,” Epes added.

“I am definitely opposed to the proposed rule,” stated one professor who spoke, he said, for several full professors. “I would like an opportunity to discuss this with interested Trustees.” Another faculty member emphasized the significant effect the proposal could have on the immediate future of the college if it is passed. He particularly noted that the students play an important role in this controversy. “I hope,” he concluded, “that the students realize that this move, if it does go through, will tend to retard change in several controversial areas, including those which students have been agitating for years.”

COMMITTEE PAUSES TO POSE FOR PHOTO
From Left To Right Are: Back, Dr. Jack Dalton, A. T. Atwood, E. L. Vaughan, Dr. Richard T. Barber, Howard Phillips and Dr. Arthur E. Jensen; Front, Robert Lagemann. (Staff Photo by Purvis)

SOUTHERN ASSOCIATION Evaluation Group Visits

A seven-man committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools visited the Davidson campus this week to evaluate the college. According to Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, professor emeritus of physics, who was acting as the “host” for the visiting committee, a skeleton schedule was prepared and facilities provided for them by the college. These facilities included four conference rooms on the second floor of the College Union, the faculty meeting room on the second floor of Chambers, four typewriters, two dictaphones and an automobile.

The schedule for the committee included a luncheon with Davidson President D. Grier Martin, members of the Steering Committee of the Self-Study Report and chairmen of the self-study sections. Tuesday the visiting committee met with the Board of Trustees for lunch. Most of the committee’s time was spent on the follow-through with each member's assignments. Pietenpol said that each member of the committee had a specific area to cover—for example, the faculty, educational program, and physical plant. Each member was assigned to at least one area, but for some areas more than one was required.

“The way that each man would cover his area would vary with the individual,” Pietenpol stated. “For example, Dr. Jack Dalton, dean of the School of Library Science of Columbia University, who covered the library, spent such time in the library looking around and talking to the librarians.” In the area of student interviews, there was contact with the students at meals, both at the Union and in fraternity houses, although student leaders were not questioned individually. “The greatest down to earth meeting with students was the Monday noon meal with the fraternities,” Pietenpol stated. Seven fraternities were hosts for the committee members, and “some (committee members) spoke very highly of them,” he added. “They found it difficult to leave; it was both interesting and enjoyable.”

Dr. Richard T. Barber, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Louisville, had the faculty as his assignment. “I think he saw every department chairman on an individual basis,” Pietenpol said. When THE DAVIDSONIAN questioned President Howard Phillips of Birmingham-Southern College, chairman of the committee, concerning his impression and reaction to the college, he stated, “This report is completely confidential, and reaction is part of the report.” The report is confidential to the president of the college and to the Southern Association. An oral report was given to Martin on Wednesday at noon before the committee left the campus, and the president makes the decision of how it is to be used and to whom it is to be disclosed.be given. Others serving on the committee were Dr. Robert Lagemann, professor of physics and chairman of the Planning Study of Vanderbilt University; A. T. Atwood, dean of students, Washington and Lee University; E. L. Vaughan, treasurer, University of the South; and Dr. Arthur E. Jensen, professor of English and former dean of the faculty, Dartmouth College.

Committee

In a 257-page volume, The Davidson Self-Study Committee released this week the findings of its two-year dissection of the College. The Self-Study Report is divided into eight areas: Educational Program; Faculty; Financial Resources, Policies, and Procedures; the Library; Organization and Administration; the Physical Plant; Faculty Research and Publication; and Student Personnel. Each section contains a detailed description of the committee’s findings and closes with specific recommendations for improvements. Among the most striking recommendations are:

—Elimination of compulsory ROTC.
—That every student be required by the end of his sophomore year to demonstrate competence in written English composition, and that those who fail be assigned to a remedial section until competence is demonstrated.
—That every student be required to pass a comprehensive examination in his major field before his graduation, this examination to be either in the form of a Graduate Record Examination or, if this is not available, an exam prepared by his major department.
—That the normal teaching load be nine hours, and that this be reduced to six hours for a professor engaged in research or other creative work.
—That one-half quality point values be awarded for plus grades, i.e., A-plus—3.5 points; and that the number of quality points required for graduation be increased from 124 to 154.

ATHLETIC GRANTS

—That the “whole matter of athletic grants be studied, with particular attention to the relationship of this expenditure to the receipts from the Living Endowment.”
—That planning begin immediately for the construction of a new library, and that a program be instituted at once which will add 25,000 carefully selected books and 125 journals a year to the library for the next eight years.
—That the Board of Trustees make a reduction in its own size, the committee favoring a board approximately one-half the size of the present one. The Report also suggests that the Board be changed in composition to permit members from the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States and one or two members-at-large from among experts in the field of higher education.

PHYSICAL PLANT

—That in addition to a new library, including an 18-hole golf course, a gymnasium and east stadium addition, additional lighting for Richardson Field, a new guest house, a new college union, a limnological laboratory at the Lake Campus, and a greenhouse be constructed.
—That two clinical psychologists be added to the College staff for student counseling and guidance on a part-time basis.
—That there be an overhaul in the system of student registration and faculty advising.

(Continued On Page Six)

Fraternity Evaluation Results Due Monday

Davidson’s 12 social fraternities will turn in their answers Monday to the questionnaire recently prepared and distributed to them by the Student-Faculty Life Evaluation Committee. In other action to be taken by the fraternity system on the questionnaire, the presidents of the 12 fraternities plan soon to begin compiling a composite answer to the questionnaire. This presidents’ answer will attempt to reflect the attitudes of the Greek system as a whole.

In hope of learning more about the relationship of fraternities to social life at Davidson, the Social Life Committee, on this questionnaire, has asked the fraternities to describe their attitudes toward national affiliation and to enumerate the specific benefits they expect to offer new members. The fraternities have also been asked what type of students they consider most desirable for membership in their group, what systems of election to fraternities they advocate and their attitudes toward “black-ball” systems, selective bidding and open bidding. Also, the fraternities have been asked to include in their reports their opinions of the current rush system.

Professor Anthony Abbott, a member of the Social Life Evaluation Committee, emphasized that the questionnaire answers received from the individual fraternities and from the presidents’ group will add to the data on Davidson’s social life compiled by that committee and will therefore influence the committee’s report to the faculty in February.

In regard to the composite answer which will be presented sometime around Christmas by all the fraternity presidents acting as a group, Frank Gibbes, president of Pi Kappa Phi, said, “The purpose of the fraternity presidents presenting a unified report are, first, as a means of presenting to the Committee on Social Life a unified statement by the fraternity system as a whole, and second, as a means of self-evaluation of the fraternity system as it now stands in the light of the new rush system.”

Offers

EDWARD A. WAYNE

Banker To Speak On Market

Edward A. Wayne, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, will speak in assembly Nov. 30 on “Discipline and the Free Enterprise System.” Wayne plans to discuss the basic importance of free markets to the whole economic system and the types of discipline which may be employed without destroying these markets.

The banker, who is coming to Davidson under the auspices of the Conservative Club, will speak Nov. 29 at a luncheon of the 1-2-9 Club in Charlotte and at a meeting of the Conservative Club at 7:30 p.m. in the Green Room.

“Mr. Wayne is highly respected in banking circles, and we were really fortunate to be able to get him to come to Davidson,” commented Louis Lesesne, president of the club.

Wayne has served as president of the Richmond Kiwanis Club, a director of the Richmond Chamber of Commerce, campaign general for the Richmond Area Community Chest and president of the United Givers Fund of Richmond. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of Richmond Memorial Hospital and the Board of Governors of Wesley Theological Seminary and is currently serving as rector of Virginia State College. He has also been active in church affairs of the Virginia Methodist Conference and is a member of Reveille Methodist Church in Richmond.

Born in Eau Claire, S. C., Wayne has moved up rapidly in the banking business. Among the official positions he has held are State Bank Examiner of South Carolina, executive secretary of the North Carolina Bankers Association, and vice-president of the Federal Reserve Bank in Richmond. He became first vice-president of the bank in 1953 and president in 1961.