Mien, wv. | TIME FRUSTRATES FACULTY RESEARCH Dr. Lammers Contemplates In Maze of Equipment Professors’ Research Moves Along Quietly

The Davidsonian

(Staff Photo By Thel)

Abernethy Writes Four Books

The experience of Dr. George L. Abernethy, chairman of the philosophy department, provides insight into the activities of a professor
who publishes. Abernethy has produced in the past seven years four books, two of which are scheduled for publication in
the near future. On two of these books, Abernethy collaborated with Dr. Thomas A. Langford, chairman of the department of
religion at Duke University and a Davidson graduate (class of '61). Abernethy’s own books are anthologies. In 1959, John Knox
Press published his The Idea of Equality. Holt, Rinehart, and Winston will bring out Abernethy's Living Wisdom from the World’s
Religions in October.

How did he go about preparing these books? “I've been interested in these topics for a number of years,” says
Abernethy. “As I went to various university libraries, I kept looking for relevant material. Every time I found something, I
added it to my collection. The collection has been going on for more than ten years."

Abernethy’s first joint effort with Langford, published in 1962 by Macmillan, was Philosophy of Religion: a Book of Readings. The
topic is one Abernethy has taught for 15-16 years. “Originally, I suggested the project to Dr. Langford, who was a
former student of mine," he says. “We did a great deal of reading in this area. We reached a tentative
outline of what we thought should go into a book like this. We thought there was a real need for
this kind of book.” Eighteen months after the book appeared, six competitors appeared on the market.

“After we agreed on the contents, a publisher—Macmillan—asked us to submit it." The company had heard of the project through
one of its field salesmen. The company had the outline reviewed by other professor-critics, who suggested changes and pointed out
strengths. “Then we went to work in earnest." Since Langford was at Duke, “it was very convenient for us to
get together. We worked the whole summer together over at Duke.” (Abernethy gives most of his summers to his publishing
efforts: “When a professor teaches 12 hours of courses, this leaves him with little time for supplementary work, creative or
uncreative, during the regular college year. I have therefore devoted my summers to the preparation of these materials.”)

“We worked on each section together.” Perhaps two of the seven introductory essays were written separately, “but most were joint
efforts.” After this work, the publisher asked three critics to make suggestions. “Some of these we used and some we
did not; the publisher left the decision up to us.

“Then we had to get permission from the copyright owners. It was a laborious process of letter writing. In some
cases, it was hard to find who owned the copyright—lawyer, estate, or distant relative.” In addition, the owners sometimes charged
fees: some fees were high, some modest. “We had to operate within a budget.”

(Staff Photo by Thel)

DR. GEORGE ABERNETHY Publishes Next Month

Abbott Analyzes

The publisher sent out 600 examination copies to professors. Since publication, the book has been used at 100 colleges and
universities and has just gone into its second printing. Abernethy and Langford were approached by Prentice-Hall to prepare for publication
of its West Coast subsidiary, Dickenson Publishing Company, a book of readings in the history of philosophy. The two have
completed work on it, and the book will be published in May. They are now at work on a textbook
in the history of philosophy.

Abernethy’s published work is closely bound to his work in the classroom. “It grows out of my own teaching and
is concerned with the development of materials that will be of use to other teachers.”

“First let me say that I would define ‘research’ in the broad sense of the word.” Thus began Dean of
the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston in answer to questions on administration policy on faculty research. Scholarship in any field, he
continued, “consists of much more than the obvious research and writing for publication. For instance, I would certainly include recitals,
exhibits, general reading for the updating of courses, and so forth.”

As for a written policy on faculty research, there is none, but defined by Davidson's stature as a small liberal
arts college, the role of a professor is primarily that of teaching. Faculty members said that research was often limited
by time, a heavier teaching load in some courses, committee work, the nature of the research, and/or equipment and resources.
Commented one in particular, “If I were more interested in research than teaching I would be at a larger institution.
As it is, I realize that any research undertaking must be modest.”

That it was only a matter of degree was stated by Dean Johnston, “Teaching and research are not to be
considered incompatible. In fact, they are essentially inseparable.” The summer months are quite naturally the time of year that most
faculty members engage in any extensive research. To aid in this work, last year (and in years past) $8500 has
been earmarked for faculty research grants. The next school year has $9000 budgeted for this purpose. Johnston stated that some
years more than this amount is required and some years, less. Ordinarily, all the funds are used. Faculty recipients usually
average around twenty. Of course, this is not the sole source for research funds, but only that which the college
furnishes.

Johnston also expressed doubt as to the likelihood of expanding the library for extensive use as a faculty research library.
Because a good such library requires vast amounts of rare books and original manuscripts and records in addition to requirements
for normal expansion, Davidson as a small undergraduate college could not afford to buy, house, or process enough documents to
the extent needed.

Lammers Will Present Paper To International Limnologists

Dr. W. T. Lammers of the Biology Department will travel this August behind the iron curtain to Warsaw, Poland, where
he will present a paper at the 16th International Congress of Limnologists. The paper will deal with his research in
limnology, and, following its presentation, it will be published in the Congress’ journal. Limnology, Dr. Lammers’ specialty, is the study
of submicroscopic particles in fresh water. It is the fresh water version of oceanography, or, as Dr. Lammers prefers, “oceanography
is the saltwater version of limnology.”

Dr. Lammers plans to make his trip to the Congress a combination of business and pleasure. Accompanied by his wife,
Lammers will leave on August 11 and visit England, France, Austria, and Germany before attending the Congress, which starts on
August 23. Lammers will return to Davidson on August 31. In these countries, besides visiting the usual tourist attractions, Lammers
will be able to inspect several research centers. In London, he will visit the Kew Garden, the most famous (and
the best, according to Lammers) botanical garden in the world. Also, he will spend a day or two in the
lake country of England and hopefully visit the freshwater laboratory at Lake Windemere.

The meetings in Warsaw will climax the trip, and here Lammers will present his paper to the Congress. Known by
its Latin name, Societas Internationalis Limnologiae, this society is composed of fresh water biologists from all over the world. Lammers
estimated that around 2000 delegates would be at the Congress, and many Americans would be among them.

This paper to be submitted at Warsaw is not the first one for Lammers. Last year, he published a paper
on “Density Gradient Separation of Plankton and Clay from River Water: Theory and Practice.” This appeared in the Society's Journal.
Lammers also wrote a paper on “The Isolation of Virus-like Particles from Natural Water.”Read it. At the meeting last summer
of the American Institute of Biological Sciences in Boulder, Colorado, he has spent several summers working in the laboratories at
Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Currently, Lammers’ work is being sponsored by the National Institute of Health. Lammers will definitely be taking
advantage of Lake Norman's ready-made laboratory in his own research. He plans to study how the newly constructed Marshall steam
plant will change the environment of the lake and, of course, the freshwater particles. Much of the equipment in his
lab at Davidson has been purchased by the College, but most of the larger, more expensive items have been provided
by grants from the AEC and the National Institute of Health. "This is the way it should be," Lammers remarked
concerning the research equipment. "Davidson does a fine job providing most of the smaller equipment, and the grants take care
of the other." Lammers stated that “the real problem is finding time to do all the research you would like
to do."

Shaw’s Criticism Of Christianity

Assistant Professor Anthony S. Abbott has spent the last summer and all the breaks during this school year on his
new book, Shaw and Christianity, which will be published next fall. It deals with why George Bernard Shaw felt inclined
to criticize Christianity, what elements he criticized, and to what extent he may be called religious or anti-religious. For his
work, Abbott selected certain of Shaw’s religious plays, including Major Barbara and Saint Joan. Abbott’s book both describes Shaw’s thinking
about Christianity and discusses his use of the stage as a platform for that thought. Though Shaw seemed irreligious to
his contemporaries, Abbott hopes to demonstrate that he was beneath the surface laughing, not at religion, but at “the superficial
piety and puritanical institutions of his time.” Professor Abbott is quick to point out that Shaw was not a “wild
iconoclastic joker," and that “he was not purely negative. He tore down the old, and tried to rebuild the new.”
In the book’s final chapter, “Shaw and Christianity: a Contemporary Perspective,” Abbott looks at Shaw's criticism in the light of
some important contemporary attitudes toward Christianity, and shows how the playwright’s work, once considered “shocking,” is closely related to criticism
being written today. In its original form, the work was Abbott’s dissertation for his PhD at Harvard. It was begun
in the fall of 1960, and completed in 1962. He revised the first half last summer and has spent his
spare time since then polishing the text and writing a new conclusion. When asked about the originality of his work,
Abbott commented, “Many of the basic ideas in the book appear in earlier writers, but this is the first time
that anyone has carried the subject through to a significant conclusion.” Abbott did not do any of his research at
Davidson, but when asked about the research facilities at Davidson, he commented that the library could be expanded for some
kinds of research. He did not feel that it could get the resources for major or original research. He also
noted that a teacher's greatest problem was trying to write during the school year, but also added that someone interested
purely in writing and research should not be at a small liberal arts college. In his own words, “I’m here
because I like this kind of teaching, but there are things of my own that I would like to do.”
If a professor becomes involved in a major piece of writing during the school year, he must either sacrifice his
work with his students or put off his writing until vacation. Abbott is trying to coincide the release of his
book with the opening of the first semester next year. He expects some controversy within the church over his book,
but added that today Shaw’s criticism is unlikely to cause the kind of shock it did when it was first
written. Abbott said that it was difficult to look beyond the completion of this present work until it was finished,
but that he hoped to complete some articles on American literature.

PAGE THREE

Faculty Participates In Academic Arena

Although this list represents a rather thorough sampling of faculty honors, publications, and research during the calendar year 1964, there
are many omissions still. In addition, most professors attended professional meetings of some sort that are not recorded here.

C. P. Adinaryan (visiting professor of psychology): published “The Case for Colour, Social Psychology,” and “Attitudes and Adjustment Problems of
African Students in India.”

J. E. Applewhite (French): published article “Dante’s Use of the Extended Simile in The Inferno;” began work on dissertation, Obsession
in the Novels of Guy de Maupassant.

A. B. Brinkley (philosophy): began work on a book, The Phenomenology of Knowing; wrote a short monograph introduction to phenomenology
and a paper on Merleau-Ponty's philosophy of language.

H. A. Bryan (chemistry): did research on stability constants and combining ratios of certain liquid-cation combinations by pH measurement.

R. C. Cole (English): continued work on the correspondence of James Boswell.

W. P. Cumming (English): was Fulbright lecturer in India; published The Southeast in Early Maps plus a pamphlet “The Parreus
Map (1562) of French Florida” and gave many addresses while in India.

Tom Daggy (biology): served as president of the North Carolina Entomological Society; continued study of the floristics and the Coleoptera
of the North Carolina Piedmont.

C. G. Davidson (history): revised two articles for the Encyclopedia Americana; published “Book Learning—Southern Children’s Classics Again Available” and “Charlotte’s
Forgotten Warrior;” began research for “A Sociological Investigation of the Agrarian Leadership of South Carolina in 1860.”

J. T. Drake (sociology): gathered data on a migration study of graduates of a small-town high school in Mississippi; completed
two papers to be presented in 1965.

J. O. Embry (French): translated Le Secret; began work on The Techniques of the French Novel.

E. Gift (economics): wrote a paper “A Note on Some Points of Logic in the Theory of Interest,” a monograph
The Determinants of Productive Capacity; began a study of structural problems in the German economy, 1920-1939.

I. Hopkins (physics): published “Range-Energy Studies of Alpha Particles with Scintillation Spectrometer;” served on governor’s Advisory Committee on Atomic Energy.

McC. Johnson (history): continued research for dissertation on Austro-German customs union project of 1931.

G. Jones (psychology): co-authored “Optimum Conformity as an Ingratiation Tactic;” continued work on dissertation.

J. D. Kelton (psychology): initiated research on punishment and fixated behavior.

George Labban (Greek): continued research on commercial activities within the Mediterranean in the Hellenistic period and in the period of
the Roman Empire.

Malcolm Lester (history): wrote monograph “Sea Power and Anglo-American Relations, 1793-1812.”

J. A. McGeachy (history): worked on translation of the Latin verses in John Gower's Confessio Amantis.

S. D. Maloney (Bible): wrote “Chaplain’s Corner” for National Guard newsletter, and a book review on Tillich for the “Davidson
College Bulletin;” served several nearby colleges as Religious Emphasis Week speaker.

J. G. Martin (chemistry): began research on a problem in synthetic organic chemistry.

W. P. Minter (political science): worked on article “Supplying the Confederate Armies; A Study in War Administration.”

Louise Nelson (economics): finished construction of yield series on financial assets held by the consumer and nonprofit sector of the
economy, 1952-1963; began work on joint revision of text on savings.

W. B. Patterson (history): continued work on dissertation “Thomas Fuller (1608-1661) and the Development of English Historiography.”

T. A. Rogerson (Spanish): worked on dissertation The Knight in Medieval Spanish Literature.

P. B. Secor (political science): published “The Wall Between Church and State” and two articles for the “Davidson College Bulletin;”
presented numerous speeches and radio-tv coverage of the 1964 Presidential election.

W. H. Welsh (music): completed several compositions, gave five recitals, and started a novel The Far Side of the Flood.

Locke White (physics): accepted for publication “A Low-Frequency Circuit for Driving a Galvanometer in Forced Linear Oscillation.”

T. A. Williams (French): published “Albert Camus and the Two Houses of Descartes;” completed dissertation “Mallarme and the Language of
Mysticism;” worked on A Concordance to the Poems of Mallarme.

J. S. Winkler (German): accepted for publication two poems for the Southern Poetry Review and translations of poems by Angelus
Silesius.
