FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

SOUR GRAPES ASIDE...

“Ridiculous” is how Virginia Tech Basketball coach Howie Shannon recently described the Southern Conference’s method of determining its basketball champion
with a three-day tournament after three months of rigorous competition has only decided tournament bracketing.

In an interview in Monday’s Richmond Times-Dispatch, Shannon stated that only a round-robin schedule “would decide a true champion.” Sour
grapes aside, it is evident that Shannon is right—a single elimination tournament to determine a conference champion makes little sense
when it is possible to determine a champion on the basis of a full season’s play. Every major conference in
the country, except the Southern and Atlantic Coast conferences, long ago realized this rather self-evident fact.

The tourney-selection method hasn’t exactly always been a great boon to conference prestige either. Last year the Southern had three
outstanding teams—regular-season champ Davidson, second-place West Virginia, and third-place Virginia Tech—which would have been capable of at least sparing the
conference embarrassment in the Eastern regionals. But some rather gutty playing by a spirited VMI team in three tournament games
earned that group the right to represent the Southern as its best team. Everybody knows the rest. A team can
ride on guts alone just so far, and the Keydets got clobbered in the first round of the regionals 86-60
by the Ivy League’s Princeton, a team that Davidson had mauled 106-68.

In 1961 George Washington won the tournament championship as West Virginia, ranked ninth in the nation, was upset in the
semi-finals by William and Mary. Again a tournament upset took conference prestige down with it as the Colonials were romped
84-67 by the same non-subsidized Ivy League school that mashed VMI.

It is true that the tournament gives everybody a chance to be conference champion, but it seems that the champion
should be the best team, not necessarily the team which does best in a three-day tournament after three months of
competition that officially decides nothing. The major advantage of the tournament is the money it adds to the conference treasury.
As Commissioner Lloyd Jordan points out, this is especially important to the Southern Conference because of the lack of revenue
from bowl games and TV that other conferences receive, but this object could be realized just as well with a
holiday conference tournament that has no effect on the regular season standings. There is little doubt that such a tournament
would be a sellout, considering the single game sellouts that Davidson attracts to the coliseum.

Shannon pointed out that such a tournament works successfully for the Big Eight conference, suggesting “Bring all the teams together
three or four days right after Christmas. I'll guarantee you it will make as much money as the post-season thing
does right now.”

Another alternative would be a playoff game between the tournament champion and the regular season champion if they resulted in
different teams. This would allow for the possibility of a vast improvement by a team toward the season's end, thus
providing it a chance at the title despite its record. However, at the same time, it would greatly decrease the
chance of a fluke champion, as the regular season champion would have to be beaten twice in the playoffs before
it would be prevented from representing the conference in the regionals. Such a solution would also add to the league
treasury when an extra game would be necessary.

Davidson outclasses the rest of the conference so much this season that there is little chance of a fluke champion
this year. But when the conference executive committee meets this spring, it should study the present tournament system as a
basis for determining the Southern Conference Championship for what it is worth—which isn't a whole lot.

NOTES...

Track coach Heath Whittle takes six runners to Lexington, Va. tomorrow for the VMI Indoor Relays. Participating will be Alan
Turner in the 60 yd. dash, John Barrow in the 2-mile run, and Tom Watson, Ronnie Reese, Dennie Phillips, and
Tom Heffner, in the distance medley relay.

With four Negroes among the first six players, West Virginia’s freshman basketball team has streaked to a 15-1 record, averaging
over 96 points a game and dropping only a one-point decision to West Virginia Tech. Ron Williams, a 6-3 guard,
leads the team in scoring with 32.1 points a game in rebounding and assists.

In another recent article, Richmond Times-Dispatch writer Jerry Lindquist interviewed Virginia Tech athletic director Frank Mosely about the possibility of
Tech becoming an independent. “I wouldn’t say I would and I wouldn’t say I wouldn’t recommend it,” said the somewhat
cautious former football coach, but in view of Mosely’s aspirations for big-time football, the big games necessary to pay for
such football, and the presence of only four league teams on the VPI schedule in every season from 1966 to
1969, Lindquist concludes, “All signs point to Tech leaving the Southern Conference.”

RONNIE AYERS GOES IN FOR TWO
Sigs Top Chis in Close One

By TOM WHITE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s Wildcats with THE DAVIDSONIAN ord winning streak to sixteen games breaking by one game the conference and victories before
and after school record set last year exams stretched their record to sixteen games breaking by one game the conference
and school record set last year by the ’Cats before losing to

TRICKY DICK GRABS REBOUND
One Hand’s Enough For ECTC

By TUCKER LAXTON
Davidson Sports Writer

Davidson takes on three tough opponents, beginning tonight, who are capable of breaking the fifth-ranked Wildcats’ sixteen-game winning streak. The
’Cats play George Washington tonight at the Charlotte Coliseum, West Virginia at the Coliseum Monday night, and Furman at Greenville
next Thursday.

George Washington brings a deceiving 6-9 record to Charlotte. After dropping their first five games, the Colonials went on to
defeat the likes of West Virginia, VMI, and Navy, while losing by only two points to St. John’s, a team
that beat Michigan.

BOB CAMP 6’ 8” Beanpole West Virginia. Before exams the Wildcats fell to the ’Cats who then took Wake Forest
and VMI. The reigning Southern Conference Tournament Champions breezed by The Citadel, West but with much more difficulty. 84-78. Virginia,
and Presbyterian. On the day exams ended East Carolina

GW, W. VA., FURMAN
3 SC Games Face Wildcats

However, their hopes for an upset are pretty well dashed by the fact that Kenny Legins, their top rebounder and
scorer, broke his foot against West Virginia Monday night. GW will have to depend a lot on their two guards,
Mark Clark and Rick Duques. Clark scores well from anywhere on the court, and Duques is a hustler who gives
the opposition trouble with his defense. At the forwards will be Phil Aruscavage and Bill Murtha, both 6-3. Aruscavage is
a rugged competitor with lots of desire. Great things are expected to come from Murtha, a transfer student from Chicago
Loyola. Soph Dick Ballard, 6-7, will probably fill in for Legins.

Monday night the 'Cats play West Virginia in the Coliseum. Balance is the word for the Mountaineers as they have
eight men who can be called regulars. Coach George King shuffles them in and out frequently, having tried ten different
starting combinations in the last fifteen games. An 89-72 loss to Penn State Wednesday night brought the Mountaineers’ season record
to 10-9. They are 6-4 in the conference.

Heading the regulars is angular Bob Camp, a 6-8 beanpole currently averaging 16 points a game. He moves all over
the court flailing at the ball on defense and taking set shots on offense. West Virginia also boasts a pair
of flashy backcourt starters in Buddy Quertinmont and Dave Palmer, filling in for the injured Ricky Ray. At 6-3, Quertinmont
is big for a guard and is especially hard to stop because of his drive. He’s shooting at a clip
of 12.8 points a game. Palmer is a sophomore who has a good outside shot and is fast. Bill Maphis,
6-4 and averaging 14 points a game, will be at one forward. Bill Ryczaj, 6-6, will probably start at the
other. Bob Benfield, 6-8, John Cavacini, 6-3, and Perry Polinsky, 6-7, all will see action.

Thursday the Wildcats journey to Furman where they suffered their most humiliating defeat last year by a score of

After twelve day lay-off the ’Cats roared back to defeat ECTC 68-68 with Fred Hetzel leading the way with 28
points. Davidson fans were greatly relieved when Don Davidson rejoined the line-up after a month with a sore foot, as
the 6-5 forward wiggled in 19 points in one of his best efforts.

On Saturday night during the semester break the ’Cats traveled through the snow to Greensboro to tackle Wake Forest in
front of a capacity crowd of over 9000. From the opening whistle fast-breaking Davidson jumped out to a 16-8 lead
with Don Davidson scoring half of Davidson's total. From this the ’Cats extended their lead to 13 points at 31
to 18 with 5:43 remaining as Fred Hetzel poured in 11 of those points.

The opening of the second-half saw the Deacons come within one point of Davidson before the Wildcats managed to score.
The offensive chores in this half were taken over by the outside men: Charlie Marcon who scored ten crucial second
half points, Davidson who wheeled and dealed for a team high of 23 (along with Hetzel), and Barry Teague who
sank six game clinching foul shots in the closing minutes, as Davidson finally won 78-71.

On the boards Fred Hetzel did one of the best jobs of his career. He was paired against Wake's 6-6
Ronnie Watts, one of the top rebounders inthe ACC, yet pulled down 22 rebounds to break a coliseum record of
21 set by Wake Forest’s former All American Len Chappell, and he also held the high-scoring Watts to 4 points
in the first half. Tuesday the Wildcats traveled to V.M.I. and barely defeated 70-55. The Paladins may slow the ball
down and wait for the shot as they did last year. Guard Dan Goolsby leads the Furman scoring contingent with
a deadly outside shot. Rugged Les Heicher will be at the other guard. Bane Sarrat and David Selvy will be
at forwards, along with 6-5 Norm Schaffer at center. Frank Saier and Mike Muth are capable substitutes.

BUDDY QUERTINMONT M2 Flash Backcourt Starter

Sigs Top Sigma Chis To Stay Unbeaten In IMAC
By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Kappa Sigs returned from the exam break to down two opponents and retain their hold on first place in
IMAC basketball competition. After defeating the powerful Sigma Chis 81-70, they rolled the Sig Eps 74-42. Stu Burness with 25
points, Ray Garrison with 15, and Tom Reams with 12 were the sparkplugs in the Sigma Chi game, while Buddy
Dubose and Tucker Laxton joined the others to beat the Sig Eps.

The ATO’s continued to show their strength in squelching the Pi Kapps 56-30 and the Pikas 42-31. Rufus Adair threw
in 18 points against the Pikas and added 12 in the Pi Kapp game, while Pat Hubbard scored 9 and
15. Freshman Geoff Birkhead also performed well for the Taus. Harold Kernodle chalked up 12 points for the Pi Kapps.

The Phi Gams completed a successful week by knocking off the Betas and then the KA’s 54-44. Against Robert E.
Lee’s boys, the Gams were led by Johnny Little's 16 points and Jim Hyder’s 12. The KA's leading scorer was
Grey Winfield with 17 points, followed by Sam Grimes with 9.

By stopping the Sig Eps 54-32 and the Pi Kapps 70-39, the Phi Delts continued their winning ways. Leading the
Delts over the Sig Eps were John Barrow, who canned 12 points, and Allen Johnson with 10. Jim Shackleford was
impressive for the Sig Eps with 18 points. Ronny Hunt amassed 25 points against the Pi Kapps and Wayne Rhodes
and John Fagg followed with 14 and 8 points respectively. Harold Kernodle again was high man for the Pi Kapps
with 17.

The Sigma Chis flexed their muscles in thrashing the SAE’s 48-24. Joel Williamson got 12 points to add to his
24 against the Kappa Sigs and Basil Hicks had 14 which equaled his output in the Kappa Sig game. Paul
Reichardt added 10 and sparked the Chis’ tight defense. The SAE's were able to gain revenge by a 45-39 win
over the Sigma Nus. Mike Booe collected 20 points and Ed Armfield added 12. The Nus were again sparked by
Arthur Clark's 18 points and Bill Barnett, a freshman, who scored 15.

The Keydets forced the usually stingy Wildcats into several ball-handling mistakes and completely man-handled the ‘Cats on the boards, grabbing
46 rebounds to Davidson’s 36. Despite this, Davidson was cautious in taking shots and ended the night hitting 52.3%. Dick
Snyder, with the Wake Forest game still in his mind, seemed to get the clutch baskets until he fouled out
late in the second half, leaving the game with 22 points. Hetzel supplied 20 points and pulled down 14 rebounds.

Before exams The Citadel was out-run by Davidson 100-81, despite 5000 yelling fans. The whole team saw action led by
Hetzel getting 26 points and 17 rebounds followed closely by Dick Snyder with 24 points. Also, the ‘Cats went to
West Virginia for a not-too-friendly Mountaineer welcome. From the outset it was nip-and-tuck with the score tied eleven times during
the game. The Wildcats, not to be outdone, managed to get ahead with the help of Hetzel’s 25 points and
15 rebounds and Snyder's 16 points. Teague as usual put the game on ice by hitting 8 of 10 free
throws, many of which came in the closing minutes. Don Davidson, playing on a hurt foot, had 13 points and
Charlie Marcon, 14, as the ‘Cats held on and won 86-77.

Then, the Wildcats let off their pre-game steam by scoring a Johnston Gym record of 130 points and holding PC
to 67. Leading scorers for Davidson were Hetzel, with 31, and Snyder with 26.

Blair, Stevens To Aid Smith’s New FB Staff
By BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor

Kenneth Blair, former Colorado end, was recently named as the first new assistant to Davidson’s head football coach Homer Smith,
as Smith also announced that Tom Stevens, chief aide to former coach Bill Dole, is being retained. Blair has been
at Davidson only since last Friday, coming from the University of Colorado to be offensive line coach for Smith’s first
team here next year.

The latest addition to Davidson’s football staff, Blair is the first of two new assistants that Smith plans to bring
to Davidson. He was an All-Big Eight end and team captain at Colorado in 1962. Playing both offense and defense
at Colorado, Blair also played in the 1961 Orange Bowl game. Coach Smith and Blair have known each other personally
for several years, first meeting as opponents in the Air Force Academy - Colorado rivalry. Shortly after his appointment as
head coach, Smith contacted Blair at Colorado where he was helping coach the freshman football team.

“I think this is a beautiful place,” Blair remarked. “I'm very impressed with the people, the campus, the students, and
the players. They want to win football—if we get organized, we will win.”

Athletic Director, Tom Scott remarked about the changes. “Tom Stevens has done a fine job for us in both football
and baseball. Blair with his background as a star player at Colorado plus the experience he has gained as a
coach should be an outstanding addition.

“We feel that Shoe and Thrift have done an outstanding job here—Shoe as an assistant football coach, swimming coach, and
physical education instructor, and Thrift as a football assistant, freshman baseball coach, and physical education instructor; he even took over
as track coach one year. Their dismissal is just one of those things. A new coach certainly has the right
to select his own staff.”

Besides Stevens and Blair two more assistants will be named, probably within the next week. This is one more coach
than last year's football squad had. In the past Davidson has used two qualified ROTC instructors as football assistants. Next
year only Captain Don Campbell will be used from the ROTC department. In place of the other ROTC faculty member
a new assistant will be named.

Swim Team Splashes To 4-2 Mark

“I'm really pleased with the team's progress this season,” said Coach Dwight Shoe recently as he talked about the success
of the swimming team. “We have a 4-2 record this season including losses to East Carolina and William and Mary.”

In the post-Christmas period, the team has only faced one opponent. This was in the meet with William and Mary.
The Wildcats lost this one by a narrow margin. “Butch Falligant was outstanding, taking first place in diving,” commented Shoe.
He also gave credit to Jim Stokes for his efforts in the 200-yard butterfly and to Lloyd Davidson and Randy
Hughes in the individual medley. John Helm received commendation for his work.

Another trip was scheduled for a meet with Union College on January 29, but was cancelled. Tuesday, The Citadel visits
the Johnston Gym swimming hole to splash with the ‘Cats. The meet is one of only two remaining home meets
in the next month. Shoe expressed pleasure at the performance of Stokes, Davidson, Hughes, and Helm. “They all did a
good job. All of them are swimming close to the school record for their events. John Alexander and Jim Grey
are beginning to get in good shape. They ought to be swimming in top form by The Citadel meet and
certainly by the championship meet. They will have to be.

“They all have a terrific attitude. They stayed here on their own over semester break and spent a lot of
time in the water.”

Wofford Dismantles Shooters

Wofford Rifle Team overpowered the Davidson ROTC Team, 1280-1219, January 9, in the only match the ‘Cats have had since
Christmas. Jim Clark shot a high score for Davidson of 255. Team captain Jim Kopp was second with 251. Walt
Eastes had 241. Art Abplanalp shot a 240 and Will Norman had a 231. Kopp was rather disgusted with the
team’s performance, noting “It was our worst match of the season. We certainly should have been able to beat Wofford.”
He added, “You might say that this is a building year for the rifle team. We lost the only senior
on the team, Ronnie Rudolph, at mid-season, and now we are competing with one junior, four sophomores and a freshman.”

The team’s coach, Sgt. Henry Eaves, admitted that the marksmen made a poor showing against Wofford but hopes that the
team can redeem itself at Richmond. On the thirteenth, the ‘Cats will meet Richmond there, and will travel to Blacksburg
on the twentieth for a match with VPI.
