FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Roundballers Romp; ’Cats Face Big Games With Coming Contests

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat roundballers face a tough schedule the remainder of the month in hopes of maintaining or improving on their record. Lefty's Cagers travel to Charleston, S.C. and then Charleston, W.Va. next week for conference matches with The Citadel and West Virginia, before returning home for an engagement with Presbyterian College before the exam break. After exams, the ‘Cats meet East Carolina here and then take on Wake Forest in Greensboro. February begins with a trip to Lexington, Va., for the V.M.I. game and then a return to the Coliseum for George Washington.

Although Presbyterian, East Carolina, and George Washington should present no great problems, The Citadel, West Virginia, and Wake Forest are considered “key games." The Citadel, whom Davidson plays Monday, has surprised everyone by compiling an impressive 9-3 record and beating West Virginia in West Virginia. The Bulldogs are led by 6-4 Dick Martini and 6-5 Jim McCurdy, who averaged a combined 27 points per game last year.

The ‘Cats take on West Virginia in Charleston, W.Va., Thursday. The Mountaineers have won seven of their eight-game series with Davidson and beat the Wildcats 75-73 last year in Morganton. Returning from last year’s team are 6-7 Marty Lentz, 6-8 Bob Camp, and playmaker Ricky Ray. West Virginia has posted a 7-3 record thus far this year.

Presbyterian visits Johnston Gym on January 18 and the Wildcats should have no sweat in downing the hopeless Blue Hose. A loss to Charlotte College and a 60-point defeat by The Citadel have been the high points of the season for a team that starts three freshmen. Ironically, Presbyterian has never lost to Davidson in basketball, having won the only game played between the two schools, 37-30 in 1960.

The Red and Black return from exams with a home game against East Carolina on January 28. The Pirates have a 6-3 record and depend upon Captain Bill Brogdon and 6-4 Jerry Woodside, who averaged 14.8 points per game last year. In their last encounter, Davidson won by a slender 105-45 margin.

January 30 brings Wake Forest's Demon Deacons to the Greensboro Coliseum. Although the 'Cats won the first contest this year, Bones McKinney will have his boys ready for this one. Bob Leonard, 6-5 Richard Herring, 6-6 Ronny Watts, and sophomore Jim Boshart have directed the Deacons to a 5-5 season and helped throw a scare into Duke before dropping a close 91-86 contest to the Blue Devils.

V.M.I. entertains Lefty's charges February 2 in Lexington, Va., in hopes of avenging their earlier loss at Johnston Gym. Captain Joe Kruszuski, Charlie Schmaus, and Jeff Gausepohl are the standouts of this year’s 4-6 team.

George Washington invades the Coliseum on the fifth of February. Their 3-7 record may improve if Mark Clark, Rich Duquest, and 6-5 Kenny Legins continue to improve.

FOGLEMAN
Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman will travel to Colorado Springs, Colorado next month for a meeting of the U.S. Lawn Tennis Association, Feb. 3-6. Fogleman, who serves on three national committees of the USLTA, will present before the meeting a plan he has devised for a nation-wide junior tennis circuit in the summer, with tournaments held every week and leading eventually to a national championship tournament.

DON DAVIDSON REBOUNDS (Photo by Kennedy)
Holiday Action Before His Injury

Kappa Sigs, Delts Lead IMAC

Spiders, Violets Fall

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s cagers burst out of first-half handcuffs last night before a crowd of 10,000 in New York's Madison Square Garden and came from behind to defeat New York University’s Violets 82-73. Playing without the services of Don Davidson all through the first half and during several minutes of the second period, the Wildcats got off to a slow start, not scoring their first field goal until 3:37 had passed. NYU took quick advantage of the Southerners’ sluggishness and their own height to jump ahead, but two jump shots by Davidson guard Charlie Marcon and two free throws cut the margin to 22-21. Just seconds later, however, at 5:45 to play, the Violets had widened the gap to 30-21. Davidson managed to bound back, however, and closed the NYU lead to 3—39-36—at the horn.

The second half began with Davidson matching the Violets goal for goal and performing much as in the last part of the first half—until Coach Lefty Driesell decided to let Don Davidson try out the foot he had injured against Alabama December 28. It was then that the ‘Cats, switching from a man-to-man to a modified zone defense to aid Davidson, began to explode, and a three-point play by Fred Hetzel tied the score with slightly over twelve minutes to play. Two quick steals by the visitors gave them a 60-55 edge over the still-shocked NYU cagers before the Violets could settle down to try to regain the lead. As time slipped away, Davidson's defense, with the aid of a tremendous effort by Don Davidson, held fast, and the University became desperate.

When the smoke had cleared away, Hetzel had 37 points, Graham and Tom Caldwell pumped in 6 each, Barry Teague hit on 6 out of 7 free throws, all in the crucial second half, and 4 field goals for his total of 16. Hetzel was held to 12 points on 4 shots from the floor and 4 from the line; Davidson collected 6 points and Paul Briggs had 4. For the New York University hardwood men, 6-8 junior Ray Bennett scored 22 points, but was followed closely by 6-1 sophomore Mal Graham with 21.

Davidson's basketball machine painted red and black stripes all over another opponent last Monday night as the Spiders of the University of Richmond succumbed 97-67. Commented Davidson mentor Lefty, “Hetzel looked truly great tonight, and Snyder is really being tough. Snyder's doing an outstanding job on defense, outside shooting, and rebounding. If he keeps on playing like he is now, I'd say he’s a good pick for the All-American team."

Even though Davidson lost the ball three times in the first two minutes, a 2-2 tie with 18:18 left was the closest they allowed the Spiders to come before beginning to add to an ever-widening margin. Davidson's man-to-man press seemed to work miracles in the first minute of the contest, for when the clock ticked off 11:45, the ‘Cats had exploded to a 22-11 lead. Lefty was obviously not entirely satisfied, however, for he was rapidly dictating comments to his bench scribe even as the ‘Cats were boosting the spread to 14 points.

HOLIDAY QUOTES
“We managed to stay within reach until Davidson began to run. If I had those horses, I'd run, too.”—Virginia Coach Bill Gibson after his team lost, 86-74.
“Virginia has a well-disciplined team. They played a good game. We played a little better.”—Lefty Driesell.
“These referees down here aren't in shape. Our conference (Mid-American) starts them off better.”—Davidsonian Sports Writer

STANDINGS
Kappa Sigs 2-0
Phi Delts 2-0
Sigma Chis 1-0

By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With the IMAC basketball season barely two weeks old, the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Gams came back strong against the Independents and upset them in the second game. John Barrow led the winners with 14 points, followed closely by Ronnie Hunt's 12.71.5% of his field goals and keeps the young ones, but these. Lindsey Collins added 7, Wayne; young a cep young Pine Phi Delts have moved into a ris. KA then began to click relentlessly and 87.5% of his free throws, 't k up with the action. Look at: Rhodes 6 and Allen Johnson 5 half, 50-43. Jim Hyder led the guys can tee P F ‘etar h tie for first place, both lly with 16. John Littl Independents 9.i and widened the margin to an plus 13 rebounds. Snyder hit that! Pitful!’—Ohio Univ. Assistant Coach teams having 2-0 records. FT the Delts. rally with 16. John Little got 82-73 victory spread. for 20 points and captured. 9 Kermit Blosser. The Kappa Sigs, led by Buddy Brown of the Pikas led 10 and Jim Phipps 11 for the Sigma Nus 24. Final tallies showed David rebounds, while Marcon scored Lefty Dubose’s 14 points, downed the all scorers with 21, and Wayne winning Gams. Pi Kapps 1-1. son hitting 30 out of 62 field Briggs, 10. Stone, 8, St. Clair, Jim (Ohio U. head coach)—Yeah, Letty, sera si hs Nus 5B33 Pete Mangum and Larry Outlaw Gary Marlin had 15 for the Phi Gams 3-1. goal attempts (48.4%) and 22 4, and Teague and Squier 2 well, I... ‘ke a bit of dif ort se Re ond Garrison as. added six apiece for the Pikas. Independents, followed by Mon- ATO's 0-9. out of 30 free throws (73.3%). each. Lefty—Well, it doesn’t make a bit of an a ym: pain ain roe Gilmour's 13 and David Dick Snyder led the Wildcats Tom Green was high scorer ference to me. We usually take the white, but sisted Dubose by adding 8 points. The Delts extended their win Jennings 7. George Miller, sus- Betas 0-2. with 26 points. but Charlie for the visitors with 18 points we can flip if you want. each. Stu Burness, Bill Crane streak to two games by beating pended on a trapeze from the Pikas 0-2. points. but Charlie for the visitors 18 points, that means we'll and Tucker Laxton each hit for. ing the SAE's 39-30. Buzzy new press box, led the cheer- SPE's 0-2. Marcon, who fouled out with and Spiders Tom Tenwick. and Jim—OK, then, I guess that for int Parker had 16 points, John ing. SAE's 0-2. 1.38 left, played one of the best Spike Welsh poured in 16 and pay te Well what about the court? our points: Fagg 8 and John Barrow and Arthur Hunt 7 each. Jim—Let’s see, I wa. mo + game’s leading scorer with 20 points. and Arthur Clark added 6 more. A strong Independent team fought on a precisely contested game. Gary Blosser (Ohio Assistant Coach)—Gee, that the Phi Delts were at least one- Martin led the scoring with 15 guy isn’t superstitious, is he! twelfth the way through what markers. Dave Johnson and Tom Scott pumped in 10 each and Frank Crothers hit for 6. The Pi Kapps thrashed the SPE's 55-31 behind a balanced offensive attack. Paul Curlee Harold Kernodle 11 and George Blount 9 for the Pi Kapps. By DON TYLER. The Sigma Chis proved they Davidsonian Sports Writer. had a club to beat when they Davidson frosh opened the new year with a victory over the cadets of Ed- won over the Phi Gams, 49-39. wards Military Institute by a score of 71-69. Rustiness acquired during the Basil Hicks led the Crusaders Christmas layover was evident, but behind Scott Sinnock’s 15 points, Bobby Lane’s 13, with 17 points. Geordie Mueller and 12 points apiece for Rodney Knowles and Tom Youngdale, plus a half court zone press the Kittens squeaked by to a narrow victory. The following Monday night was another story as the frosh, out for redemption, rolled over Wingate Junior College by the score of 101-66. Once again Knowles, Youngdale, and Lane led the way with 31, 22, and 20 points respectively. also poured in points to the victory. The Kittens were without the talents of forward Sinnock for most of the game after he sprained an ankle in the first period. The injury was not serious however and Coach Holland expects Sinnock to be ready to go in the game with East Carolina Saturday. The frosh record now stands at 7 wins and 2 losses and Coach Holland asserts that “this could well be the best freshman team in Davidson history.” Holland believes that “the best previous record by a freshman team (held by this year’s seniors) included 3 losses, so this year's team could well better that.” “No one man has stood out above the rest. They've all done a fine job and I’m quite proud of them” states Holland. All five starters are averaging in double figures. Knowles leads the way with a 20.3 points per game. He is followed by Youngdale with a 16.9 average, Lane with a 15.4 average, Sinnock with a 14.8 average and Clifton with an 11.0 average. Pinky Hatcher, George Leight and Tom Clayton are all averaging around 3 points a game for an overall team average of 87.6 points per game.

CONFERENCE STANDINGS
Conference All Games
DRIESELL PL ors by Kennedy) W L Pet. W L Pet.
Davidson 4 0 1.000 11 1 .917
West Virginia 6 1 .857 7 3 .700
Citadel 5 1 .833 9 3 .750
George Washington 2 3 .400 3 7 .300
Furman 2 4 .333 3 9 .250
William & Mary 2 4 .333 4 8 .333
Richmond 1 4 .200 3 6 .333
Va. Tech 0 1 .000 3 6 .333

Rendezvous in Charlotte at Whoosh! What you almost saw above was the woolliest number in years: Oldsmobile’s 4-4-2. Sporting (and West Virginia standard) equipment includes a 400-cu.-in. 345-hp V-8 mill backed with 4-barrel carb and acoustically tuned, chambered twin pipes. And “sticky” red-line tires. And front and rear stabilizers, heavy-duty frame, springs and shocks that make lean and sway mere memories. Three transmission availabilities, too, including 3-speed synchromesh, 4-on-the-floor and Jetaway automatic. Better hurry over to your Olds Dealer's. The 4-4-2 is a restless beast! (And it’s the lowest priced high-performance car in America!)

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
CHOICE STEAKS
Roma Ristorante
Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd. Try a Rocket in Action .. Lach to Cide for the New!