By RUFUS ADAIR
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Early last summer Davidson received notice from the Ford Foundation that it had been selected as a recipient of a $7.7 million challenge grant. If Davidson could raise $5.5 million in the next three years, the Foundation would give $2.2 million. The special program under which Davidson was selected was begun four years ago by Ford to help the leading independent liberal arts colleges of the country realize their full potential. Of the many colleges and universities receiving major Ford challenge grants, Davidson is only the fifth Southern school to qualify. Earlier grants include those to Austin College in Texas, Stetson University in Florida, Sewanee in Tennessee, and Southwestern at Memphis.

On what basis, then, was the grant made? In short, it is based on past performances: the ability to produce graduates capable in their fields and in community leadership, the ability to earn financial support, and the desire to become a truly national college through an ambitious program of qualitative advancement. Just before the Ford grant was awarded, the college had announced its aim of raising $5.5 million in the next three years. The focus was on "brains, not bricks." Most aspects of the physical plant are usually spent with a direct aspect of the academic program in mind. Probably the most conspicuous use of such funds would be a proposed expansion of, or construction of, the library. More study space and more books are needed to implement the primary objective of the proposed expansion of the honors, independent studies, and seminar programs. At present, a study is being conducted on the problems and needs of the libraries of colleges comparable to Davidson.

As the basis for the "brains, not bricks" decision, the overall goals of the college had to be considered. Would Davidson become just a good institution, developing eventually perhaps into a small university, or would it continue in its present course to becoming the best small liberal arts college in the South? The latter was chosen, and the implications were far-reaching. In this basic decision can be seen the other decisions to increase faculty salaries and study opportunities, to expand the seminar programs, to create programs of artists in residence, foreign study, team teaching, visiting professorships, and continuing education. Yet within the limits of a 1000-man residential college, there are still possibilities for educating more men through the Junior Year Abroad program, the expansion of the Advanced Placement program, and the encouragement of year-round college study in order to graduate in three years. These are the goals and a few of their implications. The Ford Foundation challenge grant will make possible the realization of many of these prospects.

NOVEMBER 5, 1965
THE FORD FOUNDATION
PAGE THREE

This abstract design symbolizes the challenge that Davidson faces in meeting the Ford Foundation grant. The center of the design represents the Trinity because Davidson is a church-oriented college, committed to continued association with, and service to, the church. The three surrounding arms represent Davidson's commitment to the liberal arts: the humanities, the social sciences, and the physical sciences. They symbolize the adventure of mind, body, and spirit—the aim of the Davidson education.

THE OLD FACE OF CHAMBERS AUDITORIUM

WALTER L. LINGLE, JR.
BILL WHITE, JR.
NATIONAL CO-CHAIRMEN OF CHALLENGE GRANT DRIVE
DAVIDSON ALUMNI

Lingle, White To Head Ford Grant Campaign

Walter L. Lingle, Cincinnati, Ohio, and William A. White, Jr. of Chicago, Illinois, will head the Ford Grant Campaign. Lingle began his association with Procter and Gamble in 1931, rising through the ranks in the company. White is a member of Davidson's Board of Visitors and is involved with Rouse and Community Development, Inc., which has national property holdings including the J. W. Co., Inc.

BRAINS, NOT BRICKS
Curriculum Receives Primary Boost
By ERNIE DEPASCALE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

How to spend $7,700,000? This is the problem which will face Davidson College in the summer of 1968 after three years of pleading and persuading the alumni and friends of the college out of two-thirds of this figure. The remaining $2,200,000 will be provided by the Ford Foundation, thus fulfilling the promise it made this summer to match every ten dollars raised by the college with four dollars from its nest egg of $100,000,000. These funds will mark the first stage of the "Decade of Destiny," the overall goal of which is $25,000,000 and an "Academic Development Program."

Grant Also Provides Physical Improvements
By JAMIE BRYANT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Although the accrued benefits of the funds raised during the current drive to match the Ford grant will be "brains not bricks," there will be some physical improvements in the Davidson College plant. The plant itself will not be affected directly by the money raised, since it will go into the endowment, but income from this increase will be used to renovate, improve, and expand existing facilities. New science facilities are planned for the period extending through ten years, ending in 1975. Recent discoveries in the physical sciences are requiring more complex and more diversified equipment at the undergraduate level. The library, which will receive prime consideration, still has room for about 50,000 additional volumes, but the need for more room still exists. More carrels for study, and facilities for the proposed expansion of honors work will be added. There is a possibility for a general expansion of the library itself, or even a new library, but this is not definite at this early date. Another item that will be of interest will be the plans for air-conditioning several of the newer dorms. This would probably include Richardson and Belk dorms since Richardson is already wired for this. This would put added emphasis on the summer programs for advanced students who might wish to graduate in three years.in three years. It would also include educational programs for alumni, business, and industrial executives, as well as workshops for pre-college students. There would be modernization of the classrooms and offices of Chambers, which would involve air-conditioning, lighting, and general improvements. Work in Chambers would also include Chambers Auditorium, where new seating and acoustical treatment would be added. Another possible use of funds would be in the line of additional housing for faculty and staff. The most critical need is for apartments and houses that could be used by professors during their first year at Davidson. Improvements in the physical education department are also included in the future plans. The Lake Campus affords great possibilities in athletics, and its potential has not yet been fully explored. It offers great opportunity in water sports. Recreational facilities will be added to meet the increased need and demand by the students there. The intramural program also calls for additional gymnasium space as well as expanded playing fields. Additions at the Lake Campus may also include facilities for open-air lectures, theater, and concerts.

A new Guest House is needed that would be a facility equal to the demands of visiting parents and alumni, as well as housing for visiting professors, visiting lecturers, and visiting artists who will be coming to Davidson under the expanded educational program. This is most acute because Davidson has no motel facilities nearby to take care of this need. Any plans whatsoever on building an adjacent girls’ school are wholly in the most preliminary of discussion stages. To carry this plan out would cost from $35-40 million above and beyond the projected $25.3 million ten-year goal. Davidson's physical program is planned to keep up with the great academic strides envisioned in the next ten-year period. These improvements will cost in the area of $1 million.

“Books instead of Bricks” is the phrase used by the administration officials to emphasize the direction in which these financial resources will be guided. Physical plant improvement will be limited to projects which are essential to the new concept of the Davidson curriculum. Greatly increased library facilities (perhaps a new building and air-conditioned Chambers Building) will absorb a sizeable portion of the new financial resources; however, these innovations are the framework on which the new ideas are based. Full professors’ salaries will jump from an average of $12,500 a year to $21,100 a year by 1975. At the same time, an increase in the number of teachers is anticipated.

In light of these fundamental improvements, the educational program of the college will be remodeled. These proposals include:
* Increased seminar and tutorial instruction for upper-level students. The increased literary resources of the new library facilities will make a greater emphasis on these and expanded comprehensive examination criteria possible. Independent study projects for students are also being considered.
* Special work for gifted students in cooperation with graduate schools in the area. It is possible that such students could earn credit toward their M.A. degree while enrolled at Davidson. Such a program is now in progress for a Davidson student in physics in cooperation with UNC.
* Expanded program of summer development of classrooms, dormitories, and laboratories to administer summer programs.
* Consideration of the possibility of a Master of Arts in Teaching.
* Continued experimentation with team teaching, perhaps expanding into the sciences, as presently done in the humanities program.
* Expansion of the basic program to include various areas not now offered, such as African History, Far Eastern Studies, and Geology.
* An extensive program of visiting professors in fields pertinent to the liberal arts. It would be desirable that such professors have fields of interest not formally presented in the present curriculum.
* Expansion of the Advanced Placement and Advanced Credit Program to admit students at higher levels and to graduate those qualified in three years' time. This objective is founded on the expansion of the present summer school program. With an increased summer faculty, and the campus oriented to hot weather by air conditioning classrooms, laboratories, and dormitories, summer work toward graduation would become feasible.
* “Artists in Residence” to bring writers, sculptors, artists, novelists, playwrights, composers, etc., to the campus in a planned sequence. The influence of significant creative work being performed on campus should add considerable stimulus to the learning experience of the Davidson College student.
* Expansion of the Foreign Study Program begun in 1964: 25 students are presently involved in the program. This number would be significantly increased annually.
* A vigorous increase in faculty study and research opportunities by means of sabbatical leaves, stipends, subsidized grants, and other travel programs. Promising younger members of the faculty will be provided with incentive grants to attain the highest standard of scholarship possible.

Many of these vital improvements in the academic composition of Davidson College have already taken form. For example, Spain has been added to France and Germany in the Junior Year Abroad Program, with Hawaii also being considered, and in recent years Drs. Lobanov and Adinaryan have visited the campus and presently Dr. Hayes is with the Sociology Department. The possibility of Eugene Ormandy conducting seminars in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, an Institute for Soviet Studies being housed in the present Library structure, or Davidson professors being allowed a sabbatical year for every three years which they teach at Davidson may seem remote to most of us. Nevertheless, the power of the dollar should not be underestimated. The Ford Foundation Challenge Grant and the overall ten-year, twenty-five million dollar campaign could transform such dreams into reality, and add meaning to the phrase, “Davidson, the pacemaker for higher education in the South.”