Gs Tea

A DIFFERENT TWIST

Tomorrow the curtain is raised on a new football season at Davidson. “So what?” goes the standard refrain. So a lot of things. For the first time in the memory of any student here, football at Davidson is—and the standard “so what's” are out of date.

“We've got to stop this wholesale losing. It’s ridiculous,” an unusually frank head coach Homer Smith complained last Tuesday. “It never occurs to anyone that Davidson might win the Southern Conference. We ought to at least be good enough to have this mentioned as a possibility.”

It takes depth, speed, and size to win at football. Davidson is so lacking in depth that according to Smith, “We still haven’t had anything resembling a game-type scrimmage; we can’t chance an injury.” Besides lacking in depth, we're not particularly fast or big. Nobody’s trying to fool themselves into thinking we're any of these things.

But it also takes surprise, physical shape, determination, and confidence to win football, and these things we have in abundance. Surprise? Who knows what to expect from a “tweener,” or “coverman,” or a “container” or an “anchorman.” Physical shape? You never know for sure, but lack of injuries saved Bill Tate and Wake Forest last year, and physical shape made up for their glaring lack of depth. “We'll be all right,” Coach Smith remarked on the team’s shape. “We won’t get hurt. I’ve been around football a long time; I’m not being naive; we just won’t get hurt. You don’t get hurt when you're in shape. We are.”

Determination and confidence? Talk to anyone connected with the New Look and this is the first thing you recognize. No one reflects this better than Smith. On his defense—“It’s got to work; it’s got to work; it’s just got to,” or on the season—“We can’t wait to play,” or on his weak points—“I told the boys that you make up for lack of speed and size by proper conditioning and execution, we'll have that.”

Coach Smith exudes confidence and it’s contagious, to his team, his staff, and anyone who talks to him. I’ve caught it, and it takes considerable self-restraint to hold down my enthusiasm to a respectable low somewhere around the maniac level. “How bad ya’ gonna beat PC?” I jokingly asked Coach Smith last week. He smiled when he replied, “I hope 3-0.” I think 27-6.

LOOSE ENDS

The student who was a “first” for motorcycles on campus, who got the same “trial” removed when he graduated last June, signed a basketball contract with San Francisco’s Warriors last week.

Tom Watson (same class as Hetzel and Turner) took a first in the 60-yard dash in the Highland Games at Richardson Field, home of much of Homer Smith’s “new” football.

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Bolstered by preseason expectations and a lot of positive thinking, the Davidson Wildcats open their 1965 football season tomorrow against Presbyterian College. Kickoff time is 1:45 p.m. at newly renovated Richardson Field.

With new coach Homer Smith has come the New Look of football to Davidson. Twenty lettermen form the nucleus of this year's team, which will try to better a 1964 record of 3-6, and a large crop of sophomores are present to fill positions in the Wildcat two-platoon system.

Making up the offensive backfield are junior Jake Jacobsen at quarterback, letterman Johnny Walker at a halfback (called a ‘tweener back in the Davidson offense), sophomore Billy Taylor at halfback, and All-Southern Conference candidate Steve Smith at fullback. Jacobsen, whose varsity experience consists of 34 plays, won Coach Smith's nod through his fine showing in the spring intrasquad game.

Jacobsen's targets on the offensive line will probably be tight end Ken Kendall, who had an outstanding spring game as a freshman, and junior...Bill HOMER AT THE HELM Big ’Cats For ‘65

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE SMITH (Photos by Sproul)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE Rikard, who caught 19 passes for 258 yards last year. Buddy Newsom also should see action as tight end, and Kendall could be shifted to spread end. The tackles are 215-pound junior Randy Randolph and senior Stu Perry, the biggest man on the squad at 225 pounds. Coach Smith calls Perry the “key man on the Wildcat offensive line.” At tight guard, senior Woody Hill will team with Randolph. Letterman Jerry Blackstock will be at split guard. Another sophomore starter will be Walter Groene, a 185-pound center from Fayetteville.

Defensively, the Wildcats will start junior Renn Gruber at safety, or “cover” man, one of Smith's bright spots. Smith has called Gruber “the best safety man I've seen around.” At halfback or “interceptor,” senior David Sprinkle and sophomore Tommy Caldwell will team to stop Presbyterian’s passing game. Two of the most important positions in Smith's defensive plans are the “cornerbacks” who must function as defensive backs and defensive ends combined. Letterman Tommy Dews and sophomore George Solley will be at these positions tomorrow. Smith's inside linebackers, or “tacklers,” are juniors Dick Short and Julian Fite. They will be the defensive signal callers for the Wildcats. On the line, team captain Pack Hindsley, a 200-pound all-conference prospect, and 6-5, 215-pound Jim Rollins will play “container” or defensive tackle. “Anchors” of the line are sophomore standout Tupper Morehead and senior Mike Cummings.

The hole is made wider by the fact that the Blue Hose have three fine ends in Jimmy Bankhead, James Smith, and Richard Reed. The quarterback slot will be filled by either sophomore Paul Ferguson or junior Mike Donovan. Lettermen at the running backs are Don McNeill and Wade Stewart (who each scored a touchdown against the Cats last year in the 13-0 P.C. win), and fullback Sam Williams. Davidson will be out to widen its edge in all-time competition between the two schools. The P.C. returns to Richardson Field with 14 lettermen, but with a gaping hole at quarterback. The ‘Cats have an 11-10-2 record against P.C. in the series, which dates back to 1919.

THE NEW LOOK DEFENSE

ATTENTION FRESHMEN

Next Tuesday afternoon at 4:00 o'clock a hallowed Davidson tradition will be observed. For 25 years the cream of Davidson’s physically fit gentlemen (namely all freshmen except the few out for football or whose doctors have written out an excuse that exempts them from walking, running, crawling, etc.) have risked life and limb in a mad, two-mile scramble through fields, over hills, across fences, amid Concord Road's dangerous traffic to win a cake that has been sitting in the sun at Richardson Stadium for a couple of hours. The generosity of Davidson's few females will provide between 65 and 70 cakes to be given to the top finishers as they collapse on the cinder track at the close of the race. If you're out for football or your doctor has written out an excuse that exempts you from walking, running, crawling, etc., you cannot participate in this gala event. Coach Whittle requests that all freshmen (except the few not running) report to the soccer field in their gym shorts right after drill (another hallowed tradition).

You're invited to our Phi Bates All Day Thursday, Sept. 30, 1965 Over 60 Styles To Choose From Featuring The Swinginest Kicks In Town Phi Bates Traditional Shoes Roy Mitchell—Bates Style Consultant will be here to introduce you to the complete line of Phi Bates Shoes. You may special order styles we do not stock without additional charges.

Bush Wilson Ltd. Davidson, N. C. 5100 N. Tryon St. Phone 596-9985 For reservations