FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

THE NEW LOOK . . . SCHEDULE

Last week the following Davidson 1965 football schedule was announced:

Davidson
Sept. 18 Presbyterian
25 Greenville, S. C. Furman
Oct. 2 The Citadel Charleston, S. C.
16 William and Mary Davidson
23 VMI (Homecoming) Davidson
30 George Washington Washington, D. C.
Nov. 6 Lehigh Davidson
13 Lafayette Easton, Pa.
20 Wofford Davidson
25 Bucknell Charlotte

Dropping Richmond and Mississippi College, the 'Cats pick up three new foes, giving them the first ten-game football schedule at
Davidson since 1949. The first of these three new foes is William and Mary, no real stranger to Davidson football.
Next year the Indians should easily be more powerful than either of the two Wildcat opponents that they are replacing.
Last year’s William and Mary freshman team was undefeated.

The second new team to face the 'Cats next year is George Washington. The Colonials are ranked by many as
the class of the Southern Conference for next year. Assistant Coach Dick Tomey admits, “George Washington should be one of
the best, if not the best in the conference next year.”

Bucknell rounds out the new additions to the 1965 schedule. Undoubtedly it will be the strongest team on the slate
for next year. Last year Bucknell won the Middle Atlantic Conference (same one in which Lehigh and Lafayette play). Besides
being their conference’s champions, Bucknell took the Lambert trophy for the best small college in the East. Win, lose, or
draw, next year’s team faces the strongest football schedule of any Davidson football team in recent memory. Opponent-wise, at least
Davidson has already moved up plenty in football.

OPEN LETTER . . . TRUSTEES

Dear Sirs:

No doubt your hands are full of business. The proposed fraternity changes, vespers and chapel anachronisms, faculty oath, and drinking
rules give you little chance for a breather, much less additional considerations. But I still offer you some. Davidson's sports
program is in need of a few changes also. Time and time again people cry out for their pet projects,
and I realize it is impossible to satisfy all of these. However, the changes I suggest are not just mine
alone, nor is this the first year that their need has been voiced.

When Coach Driesell brought Davidson big-time basketball, he also enlarged an already strong group of basketball fans, followers, and part-time,
for-fun basketball players. But so far big-time basketball, and enlarged groups of basketball-playing students have led to no enlargements of
basketball facilities. So, point number one, again this year is a plea for funds for an extension of the gym.
There is room for an addition behind the gym that could hold two basketball courts and enlarge the already cramped
and crowded handball facilities. I'm no voice crying alone in a wilderness on this. Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director here
(you remember him, don’t you?), has been begging for funds for this for several years. Last year a student body
poll showed an overwhelming desire and need for these additions. There is room for them and unquestionably there is a
need for them.

The second suggestion I offer you is considerably cheaper. (I figured you'd like to know that). It is still a
much-needed addition to Davidson sports and recreation facilities. This year physical education classes started using Lake Norman. The school owns
one motorboat, one sailboat, and three canoes. Individual students can forget ever using these things however. Every weekend (weekdays are
taken up by freshman and sophomore PE classes) long waiting lists face any student who wants to use a sailboat.
As a minimum, the college needs six sailboats to accommodate student demands for the sport. One boat is a pitiful
gesture at utilizing the potentially boundless recreational opportunities Lake Norman offers. The one motorboat is so rare and precious that
the school can’t afford to let it out for individual skiing use. Another powerboat is a necessity if any student
recreation like skiing is even to be contemplated on an individual basis. The need is really pressing for these lake
improvements. The cost is not great, but the funds you can provide for such improvement are non-existent as far as
the budget is concerned.

I could go on but I'll stop here. These two things I have suggested you give us may seem minor
compared to other needs we cry out for. Still, my suggestions are not half-cocked, wild-eyed ideas. They are material, hard
and fast suggestions for actions that bring actual, visible, tangible improvements. A vote for funds to improve the athletic facilities
of this school involves no philosophical stand on the moral rights and wrongs of drinking, fraternities, faculty oaths, or attending
vespers. It is a sure, safe way to improve Davidson College without betraying any hallowed traditions. Almost too good to
pass up?!

(Staff Photo by Johnson)

“HE FLIES THROUGH THE AIR...”

Ecstatic Jake Jacobsen Collects Hit Off VPI

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sportswriter

Having picked up their fourth victory of the season this week by taking VPI 5-4, the Davidson baseball team journeys
to Lexington, Va., for an afternoon doubleheader against VMI tomorrow afternoon. Pitching for the Wildcats will be seniors Howard Bryan
and Dave Johnson. After the series against the Keydets, who, according to Davidson coach Tom Stevens, “have a real good
club this year,” the 'Cats return home to seek revenge against Belmont Abbey Tuesday afternoon at 3 p.m. In an
earlier game this season, the 'Monks' defeated Davidson 7-2 at Belmont.

Coach Stevens, reflecting on this season’s dismal 4-19 record, observed, “We're not hitting and we're not producing runs. We get
men on base, but we can't score.” On the team's defense Stevens noted, “We continue to make errors (five in
two games Monday).” He has juggled his lineup slightly by depending on Claude Owen at first base and moving Sonny
Graves to third base. Shortstop Jim Hyder's companion up the middle of the infield has been either John Little or
Jake Jacobsen. In the outfield Lance Walker in left and Dick Snyder in center are solid fixtures, and Jacobsen and
Bryant Hinnant have taken their turns in right. Coach Stevens noted, “Hinnant has not been hitting and he should be.”
In the catching department Stevens has been using both Skip Waite and Jim Terry. Hitting is again a factor there
because “Terry is still not hitting and Waite’s not been hitting lately.”

In their five games last weekend and this week, the 'Cats lost twice to Georgia Southern, split a doubleheader with
Virginia Tech, and lost Wednesday to North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Against the Gobblers, Davidson was hurt by two errors
in the first game, and fell 3-1 in a close pitcher's duel. But in the second game Walker's triple in
the bottom of the seventh inning tied the score at four-all. In the bottom of the eighth...

SPE’s, Delts, SAE’s Top IMAC

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This week ended with a three-way tie for first place in the IMAC softball standings. Following Thursday’s action, the Sig
Ep’s, Phi Delt’s, and SAE’s led the pack with four wins, while each had but one loss to its credit.
In Monday's action, the Pika’s also with one loss, but only three wins, displayed their brute power by smashing the
Independents 11-2, while the KA's edged the Beta's 5-4. According to Beta pinch hitter Jay James, who went one for
one for the afternoon, the game was lost when, with the score tied 4-4, Beta catcher Will Jackson made a
wild throw attempting to pick a fleet-footed KA off first base. Jackson described the peg as “straight and true, but
four feet over first baseman Bobby Lane's head.” A frantic search in the right field poison ivy patch by Fat
Ed Haselden was to no avail, and a brief debate ensued on whether a runner could score in such a
situation. The diplomatic KA’s won the argument and the game. Led by Fred...Hetzel and Buddy DuBose, the Kappa Sig's handed
the Sig Machies their first defeat Wednesday afternoon 6-4. In other action, the Pi Kap's bombed the ATO’s 7-2 and
the red-hot Sig Ep’s crushed the Phi Delts 6-1. According to the Delts' ace hurler, Hugh “Red” Allen (who did
not play), the clubs were evenly matched, but “we just hit the ball right back to them.” SPE second baseman
Bill Haught agreed with Allen. “Our hits were falling in and theirs weren't,” he stated. Haught would not agree, however,
that the clubs were “evenly matched.” The winning pitcher, Conrad Cole, refused to give up a walk for the third
straight game. The SPE’s displayed their power at the plate, with Richard Mabin hitting a clean double which he stretched
to a home run when the ball was lost in the woods. Jim Gaul blasted a triple with the bases
loaded but was tagged out when he attempted to make it to home standing up. The Taus continued to lose
as the Pika’s poured it on 17-4 despite the absence of Art Ross. It has been rumored that Madison Pratt
made a catch. The Phi Gams finished the afternoon by scoring five runs in the seventh inning to whip the
KA’s 10-7.

Two walks and an error by VPI gave the ‘Cats a victory, 5-4. Johnson was the workhorse of the pitching
staff as he went the seven-inning route to the first-game defeat but came back in the second game to relieve
Howard Bryan in the seventh inning and take the victory. Against the Tarheels, Davidson found itself in trouble from the
first inning when Carolina jumped on starter Dick Snyder for three runs. Buddy Durham and Gene Bennett also hurled for
the ‘Cats.

Stevens Starts Swim, Drops Football Chores

Tom Stevens has been relieved of his duties as assistant football coach and named head coach of the Davidson College
swimming program, Dr. Tom Scott, Athletic Director, announced this week. “Stevens will continue duties as head baseball coach and physical
education instructor, but will be freed from assistant football coaching duties in order that he may devote more time to
the development of the other two sports,” Dr. Scott reported. “Stevens’ contribution to our athletic program has been a large
one. With the additions in the past two years of a full-time trainer and another man each in football and
basketball, we are now able to look toward a better-balanced staff all around, allowing us to place a more proper
emphasis on baseball as well as swimming. We anticipate the possibility of fall baseball practice as one of the first
fruits of this change. This extra opportunity for baseball practice under Coach Stevens should give a major boost to the
sport here,” Dr. Scott added. Davidson's baseball team this year has posted a 4-14 record after being third in the
conference last year. As swimming coach, Stevens will be taking over duties formerly carried by assistant football coach Dwight Shoe,
who leaves the athletic staff this June. Stevens’ move from the football staff leaves Coach Homer Smith with assistants Dick
Tomey, Kenneth Blair, and Dave Fagg.

Netters Mangle Three

By ARCH McCALLUM
Davidsonian Sportswriter

Extend Record To 19-1

Davidson's streaking fuzzballers mastered three more opponents and upped their unbeaten string to 14 matches as they defeated Wofford, VPI,
and Appalachian during the past week to give the Wildcats an imposing 19-1 record, garnered from an outstanding collection of
competition. The Wofford match, played last Friday in Spartanburg, was a joke. “They were hurting,” is the way Coach Harry
Fogleman described the pitiful Terriers. His charges backed up his statement as they trounced their opponents in taking a 9-0
straight set win. The ‘Cats displayed their talents to the home fans for the next-to-last time as they returned to
the home courts for the VPI Monday. Said Fogleman of the Gobblers, who also fell 9-0, “They don’t have anything.
They don’t have a very good set-up up there, and I doubt if they've even played ten matches. I don't
even think the scores mean anything.” Accordingly, Bill Council trounced his bumbling opponent 6-0, 6-0, and Esmond Phelps applied the
usual mental and physical torture to his dismayed foe, Abner Abbitt. The nonchalant Phelps continually returned Abbitt’s best shots and
added some offensive acrobatics to win 6-3, 6-0. Bill Schutt, playing in the number three position, encountered the man Fogleman
described as, “the best player on their team.” Schutt had a hard time in the first set and was down
4-5 at one point, but he held service until he made his break at 6-6 and went on to win
8-6. The second set followed easily. Dick Hurd, who started slowly this season, won his match easily, and his play
mustered the comment, “I think he's finally coming around some now,” from Fogleman. Peter Parrott extended his singles record to
17-1, and Geordie Mueller registered his 4th win against but one defeat. Schutt and Phelps combined to take the number
one doubles match from VPI's undefeated duo, though they were extended to three sets. Council and Parrott played in the
number two, and Hurd and Mueller in the number three slots. Freshmen Woody Faulk and “Pinky” Hatcher played VPI's first
two freshmen in a pair of singles matches and soundly defeated them. Concerning his oft-changed doubles combinations, Fogleman said, “They're
set. This is the way they'll be in the tournament.” Yesterday the Wildcats traveled to Boone to play their rained-out
Wednesday match with Appalachian State. Not losing a single set, the ‘Cats took Appalachian 9-0. The ‘Cats wind up the
season with Wake Forest here today and a visit to Duke Tuesday. Davidson defeated Wake last year, but lost a
close rain-delayed match to the Blue Devils. Fogleman said, “Wake will probably be stronger than last year but, I believe
we'll take both Duke and Wake this year.”

The FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE’S
“Just up the road....”
Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday
