FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN By RON SNOW Davidsonian Staff Writer

A plan which would remove from Honor Court and Student Council members the responsibility of being honor bound to report
violations of student conduct was presented to the Student Council Monday night by John Burks. “Under the new system, no
student would be concretely bound to report any violation of the Student Body Regulations,” said Burks, a senior member of
the Honor Court. “The purpose of the Regulations is not to have trials, but to insure the harmonious operation of
the college community. I therefore call for a poll of the student body to determine which regulations the students are
willing to enforce.”

At present court and council members are in a more strictly defined situation, risking expulsion from school for failure to
report violations such as drinking, gambling, and hazing, which are not considered dis- regulations.

A THING OF BEAUTY... As if there were not already enough signs to greet visitors at the congested intersection of
Main Street and Concord Road, Davidson College Presbyterian Church is again showing that religion is the focal point of life
at Davidson. Along with the street signs, highway markers, inconspicuous college sign, football parking arrow, visitors where else to go.
(Photo by Lesesne).

Three Juniors To Study In Washington Program By BILL SEIGLER Davidsonian Staff Writer

Three Davidson juniors will spend the spring semester in Washington, D.C., at The American University. George Brown, Neville Patterson, and
Chuck Matthews, all majors in political science here, have been selected to represent Davidson College this spring in the Washington
Semester program. The program is a cooperative arrangement between The American University and certain accredited colleges in the United States,
including Davidson. Its stated purpose is to provide a realistic picture of the processes of government in the political center
of the United States.

The three Davidson students will study in the School of Government and Public Administration at The American University. While in
Washington they will live on the university campus and will be an integral part of the student body for the
semester. The students will carry an academic load of 15 credit hours, which can be transferred to Davidson. Besides their
regular courses, the students may take a special three-hour seminar course involving meetings with important government workers. They also have
the opportunity to undertake individual research in some predetermined field.

Davidson College, which participates annually in the Washington Semester program, was represented last year by Stephen Graham and Decker Faw.
Graham, a political science major from Florence, S.C., spoke very highly of the program. “The very fact of being in
Washington and being directly exposed to the process of political decision-making was invaluable,” he commented. “In the seminar groups we
were exposed to all three branches of the government,” Graham continued. He mentioned hearing talks by members of the press,
pressure groups, and civil rights groups. Personalities participating in the seminars include Jimmy Hoffa, Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, senators Jacob
Javits, Ted Kennedy, and Harry F. Byrd, Supreme Court Justices Earl Warren, William O. Douglas, and Hugo Black, and Speaker
of the House John McCormack. Meetings with committees and the personal staffs of other dignitaries led to a clearer insight
into government functions.

Both Graham and Faw participated in individual research. Graham concentrated on the Supreme Court, while Faw investigated the Aid to
Education Bill and its relation to the separatism of church and state. Graham concluded that the semester had been a
“very worthwhile venture.”

The Davidson representative for the Washington Semester program is Dr. W. P. Minter, professor of political sciences. Minter invites sophomores
who might be interested in participating in the program during the 1966-67 spring semester of their junior year to see
him (Chambers 330C). Dr. Minter emphasized that the selection of the three students to represent Davidson was not based on
his particular major.

Graduate, Law Exams To Be Administered

Graduate Record Examinations and Law School Admission Tests will be administered Nov. 13, the guidance office announced this week. These
examinations, administered each year by Educational Testing Service, assist graduate schools in appraising the intellectual qualifications of their applicants for
admission and aid various organizations in the selection of graduate fellowship recipients. The tests provide measures of general scholastic ability
and level of mastery in a field of specialization.

The guidance office also announced that the Graduate Record Examinations will be administered again on Jan. 15, the Graduate Study
in Business Tests on Feb. 5, and the Law School Admission Tests on Feb. 12. Guidance Director W. B. Hight
will administer the tests.

Howe Rescheduled For Future Date

Russell Howe, African Affairs Correspondent for the Washington Post, who was scheduled to speak at chapel on Nov. 2, was
unable to come to Davidson due to the illness of his wife in London. Rev. Will Terry, college chaplain, learned
of the change in plans the night before and canceled Tuesday's chapel program. Rev. Terry is presently working on another
date for Howe to speak, probably in the second semester.

Wednesday A.M. FIRST SEMESTER 1965-66 EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

First hour Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 19 P.M. Thursday A.M. First hour Tues., Thurs., Sat. Jan. 20 P.M. Fifth hour
Mon., Wed., Fri. Friday A.M. Jan. 21 P.M. Second hour Tues., Thurs., Sat. Saturday A.M. Third hour Tues., Thurs., Sat.
Jan. 22 P.M. Monday A.M. Sixth hour Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 24 P.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41 Tuesday A.M.
Jan. 25 P.M. Second hour Mon., Wed., Fri. Wednesday A.M. Third hour Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 26 P.M. Thursday A.M.
Fourth hour Tues., Thurs., Sat. Jan. 27 P.M. Fourth hour Mon., Wed., Fri.

Classes for first semester close Mon., Jan. 17— 4:30 p.m. Pre-examination Study Day, Tues., Jan. 18. Morning examinations begin at
9:00 a.m. Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 p.m. Examinations of the 6th hour Tues. and Thurs. and seminar courses will
be arranged by the professors concerned at convenient times during the examination period.

Debate Team Excels

The Davidson Debaters pulled one of the upsets of the season by fighting their way into the quarter-finals of Emory’s
Peachtree Invitational Tournament last weekend. The unheralded Davidson team upset such traditional powers as Navy and Emory to finish sixth
out of sixty-one teams. Greg Haynes and Tom Rhodes beat a total of six schools, including the powerful University of
Arizona team, to attain the octo-finals. Here Rhodes and Haynes squeezed past Bradley University by a split decision, elevating them
to the quarter-finals. This match pitted Davidson against top-ranked Dartmouth. In an extremely close debate, Davidson was edged out by
a two-to-one decision.

Rhodes was still stunned by their showing, but remarked Sunday evening, “We were debating mostly against professionals—boys on debate scholarships.
I guess we were lucky to beat so many of them.”

Mike Mooty and Tom Earnhardt also raised a few eyebrows among the powers, but were hurt by a series of
low-scoring judges and poor teams. Most debaters agree that it is harder to make a good showing against a weak
team because of the triviality of the argument. Both Mooty and Earnhardt ranked high in delivery. The freshmen also were
outstanding in the novice division. The affirmative team, Shep Johnston and Jim Cooley lost only three: to the eventual champion,
second place winner, and to the top-seeded Emory team. Fletcher Hartsell and Charley Eakes also made a strong showing by
winning four and losing only two.

Next month the Davidson Debaters travel to the highly exclusive Princeton tournament. Although the scholarship barrier will be even harder
to crack, Ray McMillan is pushing his men to the limit. “We've made a good start,” he said this week.
“but we've only made a start. I want to win."

Students Relate Stories Of Brooklyn Summer By ALLEN WEBB Davidsonian Feature Writer

“We are not fighting for civil rights or the like, rather we are trying to make the best of the
situation as it presently exists.” Thus Arthur Ross, '65, has captured in a recent letter the essence of what he
and four other Davidson students were trying to accomplish in their participation in the Summer Program of the Lafayette Avenue
Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, N.Y. For two months this summer these students taught in a Vacation Bible school, counseled in
a day camp, and supervised field trips, recreation and handicraft activities in the midst of a neighborhood notorious for its
high crime rate, prostitution, illegitimacy, and dope traffic. Working with youngsters of Korean, Puerto Rican, Negro, white, and mixed descent,
they aimed, in Ross’ words, “to help some of the kids amount to more than they would have otherwise.”

Founded in 1857, Lafayette Avenue Church once boasted a membership of over 3,000, but now its congregation numbers only about
250. The two World Wars, construction of the nearby Brooklyn Navy Yard and inevitable sociological factors resulted in the population
shifts that have radically affected the life and the work of the church. Yet this church did not flee to
the suburbs, resist its neighborhood, nor lose all its original members. Rather in 1960 the congregation voted unanimously to remain
in its present location and to minister fully to the immediate multi-racial neighborhood as well as to the larger Brooklyn
community. Under the vigorous leadership of the Rev. George L. Knight, (who will preach in Vespers Nov. 14), the church
has been a revolutionary force in the neighborhood.Enthusiasm is contagious; Jim Fuller caught it as did Jon Miller and Dale
Joyner, all members of last year’s class. So did junior Ken Autrey and sophomore Stan Link. Stirred in chapel last
spring by Fuller's talk on his association with the church’s mission and further motivated by Kays Gary's column, these students
asked for and were given jobs in Lafayette Avenue’s Summer Program for the meager remuneration of room, board, laundry, and
$10 a week. Autrey, who taught primary age children in the Bible school, admits, “I feel it’s hard to say
I turned the world upside-down,” but he did find the work “rewarding.” “I felt like I was really doing something,”
he says. Link, who worked in the “Play Street” recreational program for unchurched youngsters, was struck by the parents’ attitude
of complete indifference. He cited one mother who even refused to take her children for free dental service. She simply
did not care to trouble herself that much.

While realizing that he cannot change the entire community, the young Rev. Knight has approached his problems with an attitude
of providing some hope, leadership, and guidance in a community sadly lacking in them. He and his summer staff members,
many of them Southerners, have undramatically and quietly carried to this complex and troubled neighborhood an imaginative program that has
helped to fill this void.

Jim Stokes, who aided Burks in the presentation of the proposals to the council said, “It is generally understood that
‘duty-bound’ presently means very little to the average student. The student body is only ‘duty-bound’ to report violations of the
Student Body Regulations, while the Student Council and Honor Court members are ‘honor-bound.’ Conduct isn’t part of an Honor System,
so why should a small group of students be ‘honor-bound’ to report offenders of this nature?” asked Stokes. Burks added,
“The whole premise of my plan is that the assumption of personal responsibility for the privilege of student jurisdiction over
the regulations is motive enough to cause a resurrection of the term ‘duty-bound’ among the students. It is my feeling
that the average student would not interpret this proposal as free license to do what he wishes in the area
of student conduct, but would feel a genuine concern toward maintaining a reasonable situation in the dorms and fraternity houses.”

Bill Council hailed Burks’ proposal as the greatest advance in student government at Davidson during his attendance here. “The student
body complains of the paternalistic attitude of the college, yet has done nothing to get rid of it. Most students
are content to let the administration and a small group of students be responsible for the maintenance of discipline according
to the present set of regulations,” declared Council. “This move would give students the chance to abolish the idea of
paternalism and assume for themselves the responsibility for student government.” Dave Powell said he was very enthusiastic over the proposition
made by Burks and Stokes. Said Powell, “Our objective now is to familiarize ourselves with the idea and its ramifications
and then initiate a campaign to pass these proposals.”

Council then suggested that a joint Student Council and Honor Court committee be established, with four representatives from each group
and John Burks as the chairman. Those elected from the Student Council were Randy McKnight, Dave Powell, Paul Marion, and
Bill Council. The committee will meet this week, discuss the issue at length, and work up a means of presentation
to the student body in an assembly program.

Christmas cards for the U.S. armed forces in Vietnam were given to the council members to be distributed in chapel
the following day. Various members were assigned to pass them out to the different classes, and the rest of the
meeting consisted of stuffing the envelopes with the cards to speed the distribution. John Fagg was absent from the meeting.

The Temptations combo will follow up the Four Preps concert with a dance in Chambers Basement next Saturday, Social Council
Chairman Dan Campbell announced this week. The group, known for its recordings of “My Girl,” “Since I Lost My Baby,”
“It’s Growing,” and “The Way You Do the Things You Do” was obtained through what Campbell called a “special deal.”
“We deliberately waited until late to sign a group in order to get a reduced rate. The Temptations happened to
be in the area, so we were able to get them cheaper than what we ordinarily would have to pay,”
Campbell explained. The dance is being jointly sponsored by the Social Council and the College Union. The group has previously
toured as part of the Motor Town Revue, which originated in Detroit, Mich. The dance will last from 10:30 p.m.
Saturday until 2:30 a.m. Sunday.

The Interfraternity Council discussed several plans for gaining ideas on the improvement of the Davidson fraternity system and set the
final schedule for redates and bids at its meeting Monday night. Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, discussed plans with the
IFC to formulate a “traveling workshop” in an attempt to broaden the base of information available to the IFC in
working with the fraternity system. Covington proposed that all IFC members attend the National Interfraternity Council Conference in Washington, D.C.,
Dec. 1-4. He felt that this would mean more to the IFC, that there would be a greater retention of
ideas presented, and that there would be more interest if everyone went instead of just the regular two delegates. The
Council approved Covington’s proposal but the final decision will be left up to the fraternities. Each representative will request that
his fraternity appropriate money to defray transportation and lodging costs. “We are planning a program whereby a traveling workshop would
be formed,” Covington said. “This would begin by sending as many IFC members as possible to the National IFC Conference
in Washington. Both there and after returning to Davidson we will schedule specific meetings with deans and IFC’s on other
campuses around the country, and with executive secretaries of national fraternities,” Covington added. Several goals which Covington set forth were
“to seek to identify and understand certain trends in the fraternity world” and “to research areas and programs that might
be useful to the overall improvement for the issuance and acceptance of redates and bids.” Redates will be turned in
to the IFC by the fraternities by noon on Nov. 19. On Nov. 22, redate cards will be given out
to the freshmen. They will confirm the redates by returning the cards on Nov. 23. Bids from fraternities will be
turned in to the IFC by 12 midnight, Dec. 15. The bids will be mailed to the freshmen on Dec.
18. Final action was not taken, but it was suggested that the rushee mail his acceptance of the bid to
the representative of that fraternity. In other action, a charge of dirty rush was tabled until the next meeting.

George Shirley, Metropolitan Opera tenor, will be heard in concert at 8:15 p.m. Thursday in Chambers Auditorium on the 1965-66
Artist Series. Since 1961, Shirley has moved from relative obscurity to become the first Negro tenor ever to assume so
many major roles on so many different operatic stages. In addition to his Metropolitan Opera roles, he has appeared in
London and Milan and has been soloist with the Philadelphia, San Francisco, Detroit, and Grant Park symphonies. On TV in
Canada he sang in a production of Mozart's “The Magic Flute.” A 30-year-old native of Indianapolis, Ind., Shirley was graduated
with a BS degree in Music Education from Wayne State University in Detroit. Following his discharge from the Army, he
began serious study for the operatic field. In 1960 he won the American Opera Auditions and made his operatic debut
in various operatic roles in both North and South America and as soloist in many oratorio presentations throughout the U.S.
Now in the midst of a busy concert tour of the United States, Shirley will soon appear in a new
production of “Barber of Seville” with the Met, plus other major roles. In addition, he will sing three performances as
“Faust” in Washington with the Washington Opera Society. Then follows a West Coast tour, and two European tours in December
1965 and the summer of 1966.

The Reverend George L. Knight of the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, N.Y., will speak at Vespers this Sunday
evening. This church carries on a welfare program in the surrounding neighborhood for Puerto Rican and Negro children. In recent
years, several Davidson students have spent months helping Rev. Knight in this work. Art Ross, a 1965 Davidson graduate, is
presently assisting in the recreational and educational programs of the church. Rev. Knight has been minister of the Lafayette Avenue
Church since 1957, and in 1963 he served as the moderator of the Presbytery of New York City. He holds
an undergraduate degree from Centre College in Kentucky and a theological degree from Union Theological Seminary in New York City.
He is also editor of The Hymn magazine, published by the Hymn Society of America, and serves as a member
of their Editorial Committee of the Hymn Book used in this service. There will also be a special offering to
help buy English books for a school in India. The request for these funds comes from Jon Lewis, a 1963-64
Richardson scholar now teaching in an Indian school.
