Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TOTT Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 21, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

On Polls And Polls

We urge the approval of the pending amendment in next week's referendum to lessen the penalty for violation of the student body drinking rule. For one reason, even the faculty ruling has the catch-all term “ordinarily” which permits some leeway in the questions that arise in this area. Moreover, it is definitely in the best interests of the student body that such a change be brought about. Shifting standards and attitudes on the question of alcohol as shown in the debates before last week's abortive referendum give more reason for a change in the punishment under this regulation.

We do question the haste in presenting this matter before the student body in such an unorthodox manner. Holding the referendum on a reading day before examinations smirks of the hasty moves by which the infamous Speaker Ban law was adopted by the North Carolina General Assembly two years ago. Stretching the rules in this question, however, may bring about some sensible change.

The second question to face students in next week’s voting is one of the most asinine moves ever pulled before the Student Council. Clearly the Student Body Constitution is nothing to play spring games with, no matter what the time of year. We wonder how students can express in one breath their responsible attitudes on campus, yet in the next minute turn to such immature acts as making mockery out of the constitutional amendment process. Perhaps the jesting draws a few loud guffaws; nevertheless, anything other than a resounding defeat of this bathetic proposal will bring numerous questions concerning any future requests based on responsible student opinion and action.

The compilation of statistics from yesterday’s opinion poll should be only the first step in the Student Council’s attempt to bring about a satisfactory answer to the question of alcohol on the Davidson campus. As we stated in this column last week, such a poll should show student feeling on the distinct issues which have arisen concerning this problem. We are confident that the council can use the findings of this poll to its advantage as the members delve into the ramifications of such a question, and we trust that the council will carefully examine every detail before revealing its answer.

Herberg

The presence on campus earlier this week of Dr. Will Herberg was a stimulating and thought-provoking period. Looking like another Burl Ives, the noted philosopher in his lectures, candid discussions and off-the-cuff remarks was very much a part of the Davidson community during his few days here. Perhaps the measure of a speaker’s appeal to the student body can be seen in the following he leads to the after-chapel coffee hour in the Union, and in this Herberg succeeded magnificently. The Reynolds Lectureship Committee is to be congratulated again on the succession of distinguished scholars which have visited the campus under the Reynolds sponsorship.

‘He Was Part Of Davidson’

By DONALD DAVIS Davidsonian Assistant Editor

When Dr. A. V. Goldiere, professor emeritus of French, passed away suddenly May 5, many members of the Davidson community felt they had lost more than a neighbor or former professor. Mrs. Guy Vowles, widow of the late Dr. Guy Vowles, professor emeritus of German, commented, “We always felt that we could lean on him. “He was one of the first persons Dr. Vowles and I got to know when we came to Davidson in 1925. He did so many good things and many of the things he did he didn't tell about.”

Goldiere was a native of Boston, Mass. and was graduated from Dartmouth. He was doing graduate work at Yale when he interrupted his studies to come to Davidson in 1922 on a one-year contract. He remained at Davidson, except for two years during World War II, until his retirement in 1963. During this time Goldiere earned his MA and PhD from Yale University.

Goldiere’s main academic interest had been Latin until he served in France with the U.S. Ambulance Service during World War I. He remained at the University of Caen where his interest shifted to French. He was promoted to professor of French at Davidson in 1937.

A member of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, Goldiere was an Elder, a member of the Board of Deacons, and past Sunday School Superintendent. He was also a past-president of the Men of the Church and past vice president of the Men of the Church of the Concord Presbytery. Goldiere was a member of the Davidson Lions Club of which he was past-president. He was a past-zone chairman and past-District Governor of Lions International and an International Counselor. Goldiere was Past Master of Mason’s Mecklenburg Lodge 176.

According to Dr. E. A. Beaty, professor of Latin and German, “He was very active in the Masons and he was interested in and worked with the Masonic Orphanage (in Oxford).” Beaty continued, “He was very good to his neighbors and helped them get out to lectures and things which they normally wouldn't have a chance to attend. He loved flowers and spent a great deal of time gardening.”

According to Dr. George B. Watts, professor emeritus of French, “He and I used to coach and put on French plays. We traveled to about all of the schools in this area doing this. We worked closely together in such extra-curricular activities.” Goldiere was a member of the American Association of Teachers of French and Spanish and the South Atlantic Modern Language Association.

Commenting on Goldiere’s interest in the college, Mrs. Nancy Blackwell, secretary in the Alumni office said, “He always came by on Saturday morning to take THE DAVIDSONIAN around to all the widows of late faculty members. He was much a part of Davidson.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Patterson Backs Council

Dear Editor:

The posters placed around campus last week to publicize the voluntary chapel and Open End were made with poor judgment and equally poor taste. The intimation that the entire student body has been “sold down the river” by the Student Council is childish and erroneous. The fact that the referendum failed to pass shows that the Council is not betraying the wishes of the student body. When I voted for the referendum, I voted my willingness to see this campus become wet, but mainly I cast my vote in favor of increased student freedom and abolishment of archaic restrictions. Surely the majority of the Council and some students want to move forward in these areas. What the Council is trying to do is bridge the widening gap between faculty and students and prevent this from becoming an all-out war.

Certainly, the Council is supposed to represent the best interests of all students and not merely be a pacifying group. However, in Tim Kimrey’s excellent column on Davidson as it is, one of his chief criticisms is the lack of direction about this place. How in blazes can a troika, with separate outlooks and motivations, go anywhere but in three different directions unless there is an overall leader? Leadership of the kind we want is certainly not going to come from either of the other horses, so why not be the leader ourselves? We can, and we are, but we can’t ignore the rest of the team without having them balk and try to turn around. Get behind the Council, then show the faculty and trustees what we want.

This student body is slowly becoming aware of itself (force-wise at least); we are not going to be denied much longer. First we will have to be sure our leadership is going in the direction to bring us liberty and not merely license. Then our leaders, hopefully the Council, should announce that we are ready to talk (openly) but not to bargain for half a share any longer. Then, if we are ignored or not taken seriously, I'll be ready to start looking for wicks for the Molotov Cocktails. But now, Baby, we've got to move beyond the bitching stage before anyone takes us seriously, ourselves included. Let’s begin by at least identifying with those men we elected a month or so ago to be our leaders but certainly not to man our battlements alone. Let's not just castigate them when most of us don’t even know who they are.

Neville Patterson Davidson College

Aiken

Dear Editor:

During the past few weeks, I have made visits to each of the twelve fraternity houses for a meal and a consequent discussion. After some of the stories I had heard about these citadels of anti-intellectualism, I felt it was truly dangerous for anyone, especially an Independent, to venture past the laundry. But being of missionary spirit, I did with much prayer, make my way to each of the lawless lodges. I could not believe that I was actually issued silverware and a napkin when I was invited to sit with the beastly brotherhood. I expected a food fight to erupt at any moment, but contrary to all the tales I'd heard, I saw not a one. In many houses I even saw reproductions of fine art works hanging about the living rooms. (Artificial pearls cast before real swine?) A few houses had even thrown a few albums of light classics around on the tops of their stereos just to impress me. It was not at all unusual to see the frattie-brothers crawling down into their dens just to watch Huntley-Brinkley when they had finished their meals. I'll be the last to say that “there ain't no flies on the fraternity court.” Why, I heard folks talking about art movies, chemistry reviews, birth control, and Viet Nam. Once at one of the more “pitiful” houses someone even broke out a chess board. One by one my prejudices about the fraternities crumbled. I began to think that these great anti-intellectuals, these brow-beating conformists, these social punks just might be people: people in need of companionship. (Perhaps they just haven't heard about the social companionship and adventure available through “community.” That’s all right. Community has been legislated out of existence at Davidson.) I began to think that there is more anti-intellectualism on the court than anywhere else, simply because there are more people there, and that anti-intellectualism is all over this campus. And so I wish to thank each and every fraternity man at Davidson for allowing me to visit with him in his house, and come to better understand the fraternity system and the fraternity mentality.

B. A. Aiken Davidson College

Dougherty

Dear Editor:

In the May 14, 1965 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Mr. B. A. Aiken “attacked” compulsory ROTC here at Davidson. In attempting to show that ROTC violates all the laws of God, religion in general, and the “human instincts” of man, Mr. Aiken made a number of mistakes. He postulated biased opinion as truth: he stated as fact that which is untrue: he used generalities more wildly than is allowable: and, worst of all, he misquoted the Catalogue. Errors such as these rendered invalid the great majority of his irresponsible, “shoot from the hip” assertions.

While Davidson's primary purpose is “to develop men of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character,” the Catalogue goes on to add “for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.”—words Mr. Aiken deleted. The words “disciplined”, “leadership”, and “service” are the keys to the controversy. There is not one course here, with the exception of ROTC, which teaches either practical leadership or discipline. Furthermore, ROTC is the only course besides those of the sociology department which teaches “service.”

As for the “tactics of organized killing,” perhaps Mr. Aiken would rather have seen the U.S. submit to Nazi Germany in 1944, to Japan in 1941, or to Russia, the Viet-Cong, or Red China today. The freedoms which you enjoy, Mr. Aiken, must be preserved by someone, and ROTC teaches the methods which we may use (at the proper time) to do so.

By giving practical instruction in the preservation of freedom, ROTC seeks to liberate men physically, mentally, and spiritually. Compulsory academic courses and church attendance are possible only in a society whose members are free physically, mentally, and spiritually. Instruction in freedom and its methods of preservation is as basic as any academic or religious exercise.

Mr. Aiken naturally assumed, with obvious bias, that ROTC does not contribute time or opportunity for “creative” scholarship. He must realize, however, that the amount of good one derives from any course is directly proportional to the work put into it.

Davidson is “a Christian liberal arts college dedicated to the service of God and man.” ROTC serves men by helping them to remain free; sucha course cannot be a flaw in the curriculum, but only a valuable part of it. ROTC, certainly, needs improvement; parts of the course are uninteresting, ineffective, or wrongly emphasized. But ROTC as a requirement deserves retention, for it is the only course which teaches practical leadership, discipline, and service.

Ron S. Dougherty
Davidson College

Edwards

Dear Editor:

“Amendments to this Constitution shall be proposed as follows: by a written petition of fifty members of the Student Body to the Student Council...”
Article IX, Section 1, Student-Body Constitution

In spring, a young man’s fancy lightly turns, contrary to popular belief, to thoughts of putting off studying for another hour or two. Spring fever ac- In this sort of atmosphere the important exercise of a democratic privilege can easily become a joke. Shouting about student responsibility and signing a scrap of paper which means nothing seem to cause no conflict of ideals. It is conceivable and highly possible that fifty students, ably abetted by student apathy and poor chapel attendance, could railroad through an amendment making the wearing of socks an honor violation. (No, you militant vespers monitors, the Constitution does not now require us to wear socks.)

Davidson is known among girls’ schools in the area as a cesspool of immaturity. But immaturity is little excuse for irresponsibility.

Charles Edwards
Davidson College

Impeachment Incites GOP Feud

Noah

Dear Editor:

As one of the founders of the Davidson College Young Republican Club, may I say that I am quite proud of the fact that we saw a need for this club and that we did get it organized. This club was founded on the great principles of the Republican Party and should be one of the ardent supporters of the constitution of the Republican Party of North Carolina. However, the events that occurred in the Winston Salem College Council Convention, make me declare that the present Davidson Club certainly has changed from its original purpose and intent. The Davidson delegation, led by Hugh J. Beard, aligned itself with the faction attempting to oust John Patton, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Young Republican College Council of North Carolina. This faction (including Beard) put Patton in office because they felt they could control Patton and use him for their own purpose but now they claim Patton to be a member of a small liberal group. This I, along with other known conservatives, deny and declare that Patton is being subjected to indictment for the sole purpose of furthering personal interests of the group making the charges. Patton is exercising his office for the support of the conservative Republican Party as outlined in the Republican Constitution. It is my sincere hope and desire that all the good Republicans of Davidson College will stand up and be counted so that the Davidson Club will again stand for the principles of the Republican Party. The only way for this to be accomplished is for the Republicans in the student body to join together and reject the leadership of both Beard and the others of the Club who are using the Club for personal glory and gain.

Larry Noah
Charlotte, N.C.

McMullen

Dear Editor:

Last summer Larry Noah was one of the founders of the Young Republican Club here and his activity and enthusiasm were invaluable aids in the development of the club. All were proud to have him as one of the club officers while he attended Davidson. Unfortunately, Larry has made rather serious accusations based, I believe, on inaccurate information. Not being present at the convention two weeks ago, he did not have the opportunity to learn the facts. As I understand his argument, he suggests the following: The Davidson delegation, led by Hugh J. Beard, Jr., at the College Council Convention, condemned Mr. John R. Patton. In so doing, it violated the principles of the Republican Party and is therefore unrepresentative of the club. Its leadership, “using the club for personal glory and gain,” should be rejected. In regard to the first charge, Joe Beard hardly led the delegation, for, being an officer of the College Council, he enjoyed special status and was not technically a part of the club delegation. Moreover, the delegation at no time voted to condemn Mr. Patton, there being no opportunity for condemnation or commendation at the convention. Indeed, Mr. Patton's impeachment is the subject of Larry's letter. He was impeached not by the convention but by the Executive Committee after the adjournment of the convention, on five counts, the essence of which was Mr. Patton's disruptive influence upon the College Council. Therefore the impeachment was not because of a difference in political ideology. In regard to the charge of an anti-Patton “faction,” I refer those interested to the “faction” consisting of eighty percent of the Executive Committee which rejected Mr. Patton's leadership.

Harry McMullen
Davidson College
The writer is chairman of the Davidson YRC.

Beard

Dear Editor:

Mr. Noah has made several serious allegations concerning the motives of myself and the other members of the College Council Executive Committee in impeaching Mr. John R. Patton of Wake Forest College, the present chairman. There has been no College Council Chairman to my knowledge who has done as much to divide the Republican Party in this state, or who has threatened to do as much more, as has John Patton. Mr. Patton has repeatedly removed officers whose only fault was a disinclination to obey John Patton to the detriment of the Republican Party. From those who were not removable by him, Mr. Patton has demanded obedience, threatening political extinction to any who opposed him. In his drive for personal power, Mr. Patton has suggested that several colleges should withdraw from the College Council and establish their own “College Council” in opposition to the regular organization. Because of these disruptive actions by Mr. Patton, the Executive Committee impeached him. Despite the allegations by Mr. Noah to the contrary, it has been my purpose in my activities in the Young Republicans to advance those principles of limited government and individual liberty which have so long been the cornerstone of the Republican Party, not to obtain “personal glory and gain.” I have never deviated from this purpose nor do I intend to do so in the future.

Hugh J. Beard, Jr.
Davidson College

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY

Somehow two weeks worth of criticism, some extremely valid and some sadly inane, and two weeks of daily contemplation about Davidson College have reduced me to a person very weary of controversy and caring. This usually glib college senior is having a difficult time finding words. I am now pictured, so I hear, as the bitter bitch in the ivory tower—the frustrated, blind-to-good senior who has fired a shotgun blast from the vantage point of looking through his own navel. Maybe so. But I would here offer my apology (justification) and projection on the theme presented two weeks ago. I ask the reader’s indulgence of what must of necessity be a rather personal approach.

In the first place, the title of this column should not be overlooked as nothing more than a catchy phrase. It was chosen deliberately to denote the tone of all that I have had to say under it. There has never been any pretense of perfect rationalism or logical regularity. This was, and is now, a column of feeling, of opinion, if that term suits you better. What I have written, be it about race, love, or Davidson, has been written through the eyes of an admittedly emotional observer. And I would ask that this not be discounted as a valid form of expression of opinion about issues as well as people and relationships.

In the second place, I would offer that the bitterness tag should be replaced with one of sadness. The end of the road is always the moment of looking back, in this case upon four years and $10,000 worth of college experience. To shallow critics like Mr. Moye, I would answer that I do see many things good about Davidson College, many liberalizations and some progress. But in that look back, I also see many things missed, many opportunities never presented, many roadblocks set up by tradition-worship and many goals never sought. I have missed a great deal, and that is why the look back is a sad one. Obviously, the blame does not lie solely with the college. I accept with absolutely no pride the judgement of laziness and lack of discipline; I hope that each of us accepts that judgement. But I do blame the college for restricting my sphere of education; I do blame the college for offering a curriculum so weak in vital areas that no man can truly be said to have received a liberal education here; and I do blame the college for being satisfied with many faculty members who have either no desire to inspire students to learn or no ability to do so.

Every year Davidson College inherits 250 men with minds ready to be trained in the art and practice of seeking knowledge. These are golden years—years in which men are made real or childhoods made permanent. How many, how many of us have become children and left worthless? How many have never been stirred into an intensity about learning? How many of us ever really gave a damn? The answers to these questions have destroyed my belief in the image of Davidson College. To you who have sat in your own ivory towers and screamed for “constructive criticism” I offer the following suggestions for tomorrow's Davidson College, which, they tell me, is not really going to die after all. Such measures are frankly idealistic, costly and against the grain of Davidson's tradition.

1) As a step toward ending the damnable grade-seeking, I would hope that the grading system could be changed to: “A” for excellence, “B” for satisfactory completion of course requirements, “F” for failure to complete minimum requirements. I would also call for comprehensive examinations at the end of the sophomore and senior years.
2) Drop all requirements for class attendance, thus freeing the student from worthless lectures and posing an incentive for professors to strive to “draw” students with stimulating lectures.
3) For reasons abundantly and accurately stated in the majority report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, the social system centering around exclusive national fraternities should be replaced with an open system based on a small group social life, either dormitory or eating-club.
4) I would favor making Davidson co-educational or constructing a separate girls’ school to be run in conjunction with the men's college. Reasons should be obvious.
5) Eliminate all two-to-a-room dormitory housing and establish single room suites, which would also serve as an ideal social unit.
6) If, and only if, suggestions 4) and 5) are implemented, I would favor permitting consumption of alcoholic beverages in the dorms and allowing ladies in the dorms at certain hours.
7) I would urge a change in the attitude of the admissions policy of the college. Such a change would involve actively seeking qualified Negro students—with the end in mind of creating a strong minority group on the campus. We should also strive toward a more cosmopolitan student body, containing more Jews and Catholics. Southerners need to experience living with Negroes, Jews and Catholics.
8) Relationship with the Presbyterian Church should be maintained, even strengthened, with the idea in mind that the college could serve the church by channeling to it ideas and movements in the academic world.
9) Required vespers should be abolished. Required attendance at a specified number of cultural events should replace required chapel.
10) The departments of sociology and political science should be greatly strengthened.
11) There should be an increased effort to relate Davidson students to the “outside world” through a wider variety of lectureships, panels, “teach-ins,” etc. Drop all barriers; be afraid of no opinion or philosophy.
12) Finally, I would reiterate my hope that Davidson College can, in the future, look to the offices of the President and the Dean of the Faculty for dynamic and imaginative leadership.

In a word, there is in the South a great need for a small liberal arts college which can serve to nurture and sustain the embryonic liberal tradition which has arisen in the South during the past decade. Davidson College should be that college: there is no other. But Davidson today cannot offer that leadership: it cannot lend strength to the liberal tradition that may eventually pull the South out of its past. Not until Davidson forgets its tradition, its own past glory, and moves ahead dynamically and with vision, not until then will Davidson College deserve to be called a truly fine liberal arts college.

As I leave Davidson and the South, I am filled with love for neither, but hope for both. Some say they deserve each other. I say they need each other.

What was that line from the poem by Ernest Dowson?

I cried for madder music and for stronger wine,
But when the feast is finished and the lamps expire,
Then falls thy shadow, Cynara! the night is thine:
And I am desolate and sick of an old passion,
Yea, hungry for the lips of my desire:
I have been faithful to thee, Cynara! in my fashion.