THE DAVIDSONIAN

SAE’s, Pikas And Delts Streak In IMAC Action

According to IMAC President Tommy Hunter, all events will

FRIDAY, MAY 21, 1965 PAGE THREE

By BILL BRUGES
By ARCH McCALLUM
Davidsonian Sports Writer

TEARS AND CHEERS

Another year passes, and now is the time to look back with tearful eyes and nostalgia on the glories that were. I can’t force myself to do it... guess I’m just too choked up with emotion. Instead of trying to summon up sparkling phrases from my golden pen to immortalize this past year of Davidson sports, I choose the easy way out, statistics.

Figures show the best won-lost percentage of the year to be Coach Whittle’s tracksters, with a 5-0 dual meet record. However, few will contend they represent the bright spot of the season. Lefty’s basketballers stand alone in that respect, even dwarfing Coach Fogleman’s Southern Conference tennis champions. In ten intercollegiate sports this year Davidson varsity teams have compiled a 92-57-2 mark. Only three sports chalked up losing records. Enough’s said—see for yourself.

FALL
WON LOST TIED
Cross Country 5 2
Soccer 7 4
Football 3 6

WINTER
Basketball 24 2
Swimming 6 6
Wrestling 3 4 2

SPRING
Track 5 0
Tennis 21 2
Golf 10 7
Baseball 8 24

TOTALS 92 57 2

No math major, I still figure that comes to a .617 won-lost percentage, which is not so bad in any league. Spring sports have just finished. With one exception (to prevent being spiked to death or clubbed with a bat, I won’t mention which one it is) spring was a pretty successful season, sports-wise. Wednesday, commenting on (most of) the spring records Coach Whittle remarked, “This is probably one of the best (spring records) we’ve had.” Nearby Coach Fogleman smiled, “Just good leadership.” Anything else this year would be anti-climatic.

’Cats Are Sixth At SC Track

Davidson's thinclads had to settle for sixth place in the Southern Conference track meet in Greenville, S.C. last weekend, despite the performance of Alan Turner who was high point man for the meet.

Teamwise, Furman took first place in the meet, compiling a total of 67 points. West Virginia came in second, running up 57 points. VMI placed third with 38 team points.

Of individual events, Davidson Track Coach Heath Whittle seemed to be well pleased. “We had several boys who turned in fine performances. Turner, Tommy Heffner, Ronnie Reese and a few others all really did a good job for us.”

Turner competed in four events, two individual sprints and two relays with his Davidson teammates. He took first in both sprints, the 100-yard dash (9.8) and the 220-yard dash (22.0). Turner was the individual high scorer of the meet, with a total of 11½ points. His sizzling 22.0 seconds in the 220 broke the previous conference record of 22.2 held by Al Sherman of William and Mary.

Heffner turned in the best time of his career in the mile with a 4:22, taking fourth place in that event. In a preliminary heat on Friday, Reese broke the old school record in the 880. He finished in 1:55.6, which shattered the old Davidson mark of 1:57.2, but still failed to qualify for the finals.

Davidson's 440-yard relay team of Tom Watson, Steve Gill, Star Evans, and Turner finished second in the Saturday finals. The mile relay team, of Watson, Reese, Turner and Gill came in fourth in the final running of that event.

The SAEs, Pikas and Phi Delts neared championships in softball, volleyball, and tennis, as they dominated the play in IMAC action this week. The only other fraternity with a chance for one of these crowns is the Phi Gams, who held on to a position in the volleyball tournament.

In softball, the SAE’s clinched the title with a tear-jerking 6-4 victory over the Pikas on Wednesday. They did it with a six-run third inning on the strength of two mishandled bunts and a booming two-run homer by slugger Ed Armfield. Armfield’s blow landed beyond the bank that makes field three’s right-centerfield wall. According to Pika John Gresham, the real difference was the performance of Neil McBryde, not his pitching, but the all-revealing rip in the rear of his pants.

COACH HARRY FOGLEMAN

“Tennis Has Been Good To Me”

Fogleman Views His Career

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Harry Fogleman is a man with tennis on his mind. Since graduation from Duke, tennis has been a way of life for him. His contributions to tennis in general and to tennis at Davidson in particular have earned him the respect of the nation as a leading tennis authority.

Coach Fogleman began his long association with tennis at Duke where he stayed after graduation for seven years, coaching tennis and soccer and teaching physical education. He assisted in the supervision of Air Force physical training during his World War II service of 42 months. Resuming his teaching career at the University of Florida where he earned a MA in physical education, he coached the Gator tennis team for three years. One of his teams was ranked fifth in the nation and won the Southeastern Conference championship.

The lure of a great opportunity led Coach Fogleman to return to Cincinnati to enter business for himself as a manufacturer.

Top Pick: David Moser Signs

Davidson's hopes for another fantastic freshman basketball quintet brightened even more as Coach “Lefty” Driesell enlisted Hoosier star David Moser to his services.

Moser, a 6-0, 165-pound backcourt star for Northside High School, signed a grant-in-aid last Monday to play at Davidson. Coach Driesell, in describing his prize catch, said, “He's a good ball handler, a great feeder and has a good outside shot. He’s ranked No. 2 in Indiana, so that proves he’s tough.”

To back up Coach Driesell’s praise, Moser has compiled quite an eye-catching record. He was all-city and all-sectional for two years, and last year was voted all-state and Player of the Year in the Fort Wayne area. He averaged 16.5 points a game with a 52.4 percentage from the floor and 81.6 on free throws. His ball control and tight defensive play make him a natural to fill in for the little Wildcat, Barry Teague.

Moser was Davidson's number one draft choice; and Coach Driesell added, “This is the guy we wanted.” Moser picked Davidson over a score of other offers.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Rush Wilson Ltd.

At Rush Wilson Ltd. we take this opportunity to congratulate all Davidson seniors on your approaching graduation, and to wish you continued success in the future. Your patronage, as is that of all Davidson men, has been greatly appreciated. The pleasure of service has been ours.

Rush Wilson, Ltd.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE FUN BEGINS AT TIE’S

“just up the road....”Other main contender being the University of Indiana. Turer's agent for tennis equipment and other sporting goods. When the opportunity presented itself, Fogleman assumed the tennis mentorship of the University of Cincinnati where he won two Missouri Valley Conference titles in six years.

DAVIDSON

Desiring to return to North Carolina, Coach Fogleman arrived on the Davidson campus in the fall of 1961. Besides the Davidson coaching duties in tennis and soccer and in physical education, Coach Fogleman is a member of the technical staff of A.G. Spalding and Bros. sporting goods enterprise. His duties include merchandising and testing of Spalding’s top rackets which he helps design. During his association with Spalding, the guinea pig of Spalding has been the Davidson tennis team, testing new types of rackets, shoes, and tennis gut. Fogleman has also written several books on tennis.

Asked why Davidson plays 25 matches instead of the usual number of 15 played by most schools, Coach Fogleman explained a bit of his tennis philosophy. “My feeling is that the boys get tired of playing each other. So many coaches do nothing but just throw the balls onto the court, that practice turns into drudgery. 25 matches is 25 opportunities to pit yourself up against other players and meet people in the process. I have always played a big schedule: the difference in cost between playing a match and having practice is only two dozen balls. The boys enjoy playing matches, and our schedule is as attractive as anybody's."

SUBSIDIZED TENNIS

On the philosophy of subsidized tennis, Coach Fogleman makes it clear he is not opposed to scholarship programs, but he adds, "I’d rather have the best facilities and a good budget than scholarships. I think it is unfair to have your number one man on scholarship and your number six man not. After all, each one can only get you one point. $16,000 a year for an adequate program of tennis scholarships would not reap $16,000 worth of good for Davidson College."

Each summer for the past 20 years Coach Fogleman has followed the tournament tour, checking the development of young tennis players. He is so widely traveled, he conservatively guesses that he knows about 90 percent of all the junior players in the United States. Coach Fogleman summarizes, “Tennis has been good to me. I have been able to do the things I like to do, helping to develop young players. It has given me a chance to travel and meet people. When any sport has given me the pleasure tennis has, and offers the livelihood it has, it definitely has a place in education.”

SUMMER OPPORTUNITY

Students can earn in excess of $150.00 per week while working towards Scholarships. This year Collier’s Vacation Earnings Program offers College Students more prizes and awards than ever before in the history of the company; trips, Prizes, and Awards. Students accepted for summer will have an opportunity to work in the location of their choice.

Asheville, N. C.
Charlotte, N. C.
Winston Salem, N. C.
Durham, N. C.
Rocky Mt., N. C.

Qualified previous Employees would have the opportunity for Management. All who would be interested fill in the next few lines and mail promptly in order to receive first consideration.

Name: __________
School Address: __________
Home Address: __________
Date available for interview: __________
Date you could begin: __________
Area you prefer to work: __________

(MALE STUDENTS OVER 18)

—Nine days all expense paid trip to Japan
—Fifteen $1,000.00 Cash Scholarships
—Three $500.00 Cash Scholarships
—Valuable Merchandise awards

Raleigh, N. C.
Fayetteville, N. C.
Wilmington, N. C.
Greensboro, N. C.
Elizabeth, N. C.

Mr. Marshall
District Manager
Suite 817
201 S. Tryon Building
Charlotte, N. C.

Myrtle Beach, S. C.
Greenville, S. C.
Spartanburg, S. C.
Columbia, S. C.
Roanoke Rapids, N. C.

S. Rosenfeld lost in three games. Then they were scheduled to meet the Phi Gams Wednesday night. They failed to show. Tucker time. Laxton’s comment, "We just gave up," seemed appropriate. Meanwhile, the Pikas advanced to meet the Phi Delts in the finals of the winners’ bracket of the double elimination tournament. They lost in three games, too.

In tennis, the Phi Delt team of Steve Davidson and Buzzy Parker were favored. They lived up to expectations as they cruised all the way to the finals. Their latest victims were Rick Reed and John Hurst of the SAE’s, who, upon losing, switched to the losers’ bracket. Their opponents were Chris Hawk and Bob O'Kelley of the Pikas who had won four matches in a row since a first-round loss to the Sigma Chis. Said O’Kelley, “The match was close all the way (2-6, 6-2, 6-4) and I guess we just got more breaks.” One break may have been that Hurst was unable to play. He was replaced by Bill Wideman. The Phi Delts and Pikas played this afternoon for the championship.

KING KONG KELLER

Me... Pitch?

ATHLETIC AWARDS 1964-65

Cross Country—Most Valuable: John Barrow
Track-Merchant Award: Allen Turner
Track-Fetzer Award: Allen Turner
Football-Armfield Blocking Trophy: Pack Hindley
Football-King Academic Award: David Walker
Football-LaFar Defensive Trophy: David Sprinkle
Soccer-Most Valuable: Jan Brakel
Tennis-Most Valuable: Peter Parrott
Basketball-Belk Award: Fred Hetzel
Basketball-McLeod Defensive Award: Dick Snyder
Basketball-Free Throw Award: Dick Snyder
ROTC Marksman Award: Jim Kopp
Swimming-Most Valuable: Jim Stokes
Wrestling-Most Valuable: Mike Bisard
Baseball-Most Valuable: Howard Bryan
Most Valuable Manager: Jim Hyder (tie)
Outstanding Freshman: Dave Johnson

Meet Mike Carithers... YOUR FRIEND FOR LIFE

Mike is your Southwestern Life College Representative. He's helping young men plan now for a better life tomorrow. He has a special plan. Its name — the INSURED CAREER PLAN. It's a young-man plan, a new-idea plan created by one of the nation’s leading life insurance companies especially for, and only for, college seniors and graduate students. Mike Carithers is an easy person to talk with, and what he has to tell you about the INSURED CAREER PLAN can make a lot of difference in your future. Talk with him. There’s never any obligation.

201 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.