FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

TRIPLE NUMBER OF BOOKS
New Library Called For
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A sweeping recommendation for an entirely new library facility and rapid tripling of current library holdings highlights the Self Study
Library Committee’s report. In a 25-page, 18-recommendation report, the 10-man committee released the findings of its exhaustive and thorough study.

As bases for its recommendations, committee members interviewed students, faculty and especially library staff members. It compiled information secured in
a general library use and adequacy questionnaire answered by 100 students and 65 faculty members.

QUESTIONNAIRE
Another questionnaire was completed by 28 of the leading liberal arts schools in the country, in which each described its
library facilities and expenditures. Numerous surveys were conducted and observations made by committee members inside the library building itself. The
report is purely their own recommendations, and is not to be considered as an official faculty, administration or library staff
policy.

In the committee report, the current library staff was judged efficient, but not numerous enough. As there is currently no
professional librarian in charge of the government document depository and no one librarian specifically in charge of reference assistance, the
committee feels that a professional librarian skilled in these areas should be employed immediately.

INCREASED STAFF
The committee realizes also that large increases in both professional and non-professional staff will be necessary as the library develops.
The director of the library now also serves as half-time professor of history; he has no secretary; he is not
on duty in the summer months and he is the only member of the library staff who has faculty rank,
salary and privileges.

FULL-TIME DIRECTOR
The committee recommends that the position of director of the library be a full-time position without teaching responsibilities. As regards
library staffers’ salaries, the committee notes that although Standard Nine of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools states that
“all professional librarians should have faculty rank, comparable salaries and privileges,” the three current library department heads receive salaries lower
than the beginning salary of the lowest faculty rank.

The committee thus recommends that professional librarians serving as department heads be paid salaries in the assistant professor range, and
that other professional librarians be paid salaries in the instructor range.

NEW LIBRARY
One of the most striking proposals of the entire Self Study was made by the Library Committee. At the end
of its exhaustive study of current library plant and facilities, the committee recommends that planning begin immediately for a whole
new library facility, to be planned by a nationally-known library consultant.

The committee's decision to request a new building was made when the present building’s practical capacity of 175,000 volumes was
determined wholly inadequate for a “first class liberal arts college.” A collection of 300,000 volumes was considered a good goal
for Davidson.

Not only inadequate book space prompted the request for a new building. The committee found only 251 of the library’s
319 study spaces efficiently usable. Numerous carrels and certain other areas were ruled inadequately lighted.

MORE BOOKS
As a stop-gap measure until a new building can be completed, the committee recommends that a program be begun to
add 25,000 “carefully selected” books to the library each year for a period of eight years. During the same period
it is suggested that 125 journals be added annually, and that back issues be obtained on microfilm for all journals
no longer available.

The current library budget, though handsomely augmented in recent years (from $87,377 in 1963-64 to $170,305 in 1965-66), must be
radically increased to absorb the anticipated expansion in holdings. Volume acquisitions have risen sharply recently, from 4,211 in 1962-63 to
9,649 last year.

LIBRARY COMPARISONS
At the end of its report, the committee compared Davidson's library with those of other strong liberal arts colleges.

Vespers To Feature Drama Production
The Theater Arts 31 class, under the supervision of Assistant Drama Professor Rupert T. Barber, will present an unusual dramatic
production at Vespers Sunday night. The play entitled “It Should Happen to a Dog” is a retelling of the story
of Jonah, written by Wolf Mankowitz. The author calls the play a serio-comic strip. This is evident, according to Barber,
in the colorful but unrealistic costumes and scenery. These make the play resemble a comic strip.

The one-act play with five short scenes ranges from inside Jonah’s shop to the whale's belly to Nineveh. The staging
is patterned after the old Chinese method in which the property man moves the scenery around but is pretended to
be invisible by the audience.

Mankowitz explains the message of the play in the introduction. “This is, one hopes, how God feels about Man—unlike Man
who is less tolerant of himself.”

The cast includes Pat Hubbard as Jonah, George Brewer as a man, Stu Burness and Howard Bryan as sailors, Phil
Hightower as a king and Rawley Turner as the Angel. Production assistants are Don Davis, lighting; Vince Foster, costumes; Charlie
Parker, sets and properties; and Vonnie Hicks, sound.

Freshman Debate Team Places Third At Georgia
Davidson's new debate coach, Ray McMillin, watched his winning novice team bring home the first trophy of the season the
weekend of Nov. 19 and 20. Due to “cut” problems arising from the limitations of Humanities 11, the team carried
only the affirmative members of the team, Charles Eakes and Fletcher Hartsell. Traveling to the University of Georgia on Friday,
the team met and defeated Anderson College, William and Mary and the University of Georgia.

In sweeping the first day's debates, Davidson was power matched on Saturday facing Morehead State, University of Florida and Agnes
Scott. Losing only to Morehead State (the champion negative team), Davidson finished with an overall record of five wins and
one loss and thereby won the third place affirmative trophy.

To date, the team of Eakes and Hartsell has compiled a 14-4 record, best among those of either varsity or
novice at Davidson. When asked about upcoming events, Coach McMillin announced that the varsity team consisting of Tom Rhodes and
Greg Haynes would participate in a tournament at Princeton the weekend of Dec. 9-11. That same weekend Eakes and Hartsell,
along with Tom Earnhardt and Mike Mooty on the “negative” team, will represent Davidson at the Wake Forest Dixie Classic
Tournament.

On Dec. 15, Cambridge University will face Davidson in chapel for a “split-debate” on the Viet Nam issue.

Tate-Brown’s three Natural Shoulder Shops wish the Wildcats a most successful season. All the way! For authentic traditional styling at
its best—select from our famous brands: Corbin — College Hall — Madisonaire — London Fog — Gant — Weejuns —
Phi Bates — Thane — Gold Cup — Alan Paine — Canterbury — Jade East AT ALL THREE NATIONAL SHOULDER
SHOPS 126 SOUTH TRYON—3rd FLOOR Cotswold — West Mall Park Road Shopping Center GO WILDCATSIn figures gathered for 1962-63, the
report notes that of 28 colleges contacted, Davidson has the smallest number of books. The report found that Davidson is
tied for last with Wabash in the number of periodicals taken by its library. It is in 26th place in
library expenditure per student, and it is tied for 22nd place in the percent of the college budget used for
the library. In making its recommendations, the committee states that they feel that a strong library is a vital part
of making Davidson “the best college of its type in all of America.” Members of the Self Study’s Library Committee
are Professor R. C. Cole, chairman, and Professors W. A. Frey, R. W. Gable, H. T. Lilly, P. A. Marrotte,
P. B. Secor, W. H. Welsh, and E. O. Wruck, and Professors D. W. Tucker and J. R. Gross, who
are no longer at Davidson.

Flu Epidemic Due Here

GETTING READY FOR A WEDDING

College workmen were busy this week preparing a new walkway along the west or side entrance to the Guest House.
When asked what occasioned the new walkway leading to the little-used side door, one of the workmen replied, “Well, you
know there's going to be a wedding around here pretty soon.” He's right. President Grier Martin’s daughter, Embry, is engaged
to be married to a Davidson alumnus during the Christmas holidays.

Cycle Completes Self
By BILL SEIGLER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Along with the usual ills that plague the Davidson student, the undergraduate may now have to endure yet another trauma:
an epidemic of flu. Flu, like most virus infections, travels in cycles, and this is the third year of the
three-year cycle of flu which normally strikes the United States. To find out what dangers might face the college student
this year, THE DAVIDSONIAN contacted Dr. J. B. Woods, college physician. Although this is the third year in the cycle,
Woods related, there have not been any epidemics reported as yet. Normally when there is to be an epidemic in
the United States, it is preceded by one in Asia or Europe which is carried to America by travelers. Since
no such epidemic has thus far been reported, Woods advises the students “not to be too concerned.” “Your guess is
as good as mine as to whether or not it's going to hit us,” he concluded. “But remember, this is
the third year.”

There is vaccine available for interested students, but Woods painfully noted that he “had never noticed any great rush to
come down and take shots voluntarily.” The vaccine, Woods commented, is generally believed to be an excellent preventative of a
serious case of influenza. Last year the infirmary reported only a slight number of flu cases. Two years before, however,
the cases were moderately heavy.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Visit us for your personal toiletries and collegiate supplies.
Across From The College Church

Theatre Of Concern

“A collection of short plays, sketches and theatre pieces about an hour long or so and different from time to
time, some memorized, some improvised and some just unprepared,” and that’s all. It is called the Theatre of Concern, formed
in 1962 by Norman and Sandra Dietz, and will be presented in chapel on Thursday, December 9, by the YMCA.
It will be followed by another performance that evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

The Theatre of Concern is a traveling, professional, modern theatre which often consists of only two players and usually fits
into one suitcase. It is “an attempt to utilize the playing of players as an expression of care about people,
about what it means to be a person,” by using the stage as a forum for ideas and “an arena
for personal concern expressed through common joyful celebration of the ultimate mystery of life.” This mystery is defined by the
Theatre as “a confidence in the continuing, a continually mysterious, validity of the life of Jesus Christ.” The Theatre travels
throughout the United States, performing in churches, colleges, and universities, as well as in theatre workshops. In cooperation with the
Madison Avenue Baptist Church in New York, it presents an extensive workshop for groups of 25 persons or more.

Directory Delayed By Fund Shortage

A lack of advertisement money has brought about a delay in the publication of this year’s directory, according to Butch
Allison, acting president of Alpha Phi Omega. Except for advertisements, the master copy of the directory is ready for the
printers. Allison commented that some members of Alpha Phi Omega have been selling ads, which are necessary for the procurement
of sufficient funds, but that there has been a noticeable lack of interest among members. “In the first four meetings
of this semester,” Allison lamented, “we have had a combined total of about eight people attend.” The book will be
in the hands of the printers by Christmas at the latest, Allison concluded. He added that if the advertisements do
come in soon, it might be possible to get the directory to the printers by the end of this week
and perhaps to have them distributed before Christmas.

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott
Daggy
Abernethy
Fredericksen
Bernard
Holland
Bondurant
Houchens
Burts
King
Covington
Lloyd
Marrotte
Richey
Martin, S.
Scott
McGill
Stroud
Minter
Wolf
Mrs. Nicholls
Workman

SWAIN’S
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414
CHARCOAL

We set out to ruin some ball bearings and failed successfully

telephone offices around the country. The equipment in them could operate unattended for ten years or so, but for a
problem. The many electric motors in those offices needed lubrication at least once a year. Heat from the motors dried
up the bearing oils, thus entailing costly annual maintenance. To stamp out this problem, many tests were conducted at Bell
Telephone Laboratories. Lubricant engineer George H. Kitchen decided to do a basic experiment that would provide a motor with the
worst possible conditions. He deliberately set out to ruin some ball bearings by smearing them with an icky guck called
molybdenum disulfide (MoS2). Swock! This solid lubricant, used a certain way, actually increased the life expectancy of the ball bearings
by a factor of ten! Now the motors can run for at least a decade without lubrication. We've learned from
our "failures," everything. The only really be s one that is never tried. The aim: investigate experiment that can aid
to "fail" is the Bell System American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies
