Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Facts Of The Matter

We have been encouraged during the past few days by the supporting statements, not just by Independents but even by fraternity men, in reference to the editorial opinions expressed in this column last week. Intending by our statements to prompt a reasonable explanation for the heretofore unexplained action of the Interfraternity Council to prohibit dormitory contact between freshmen and fraternity men, we are somewhat convinced by the misguided opinions expressed in the forum on this page that there is likely no answer for the IFC's decision.

What is even more appalling now is the complete lack of information with which Al Carson in his letter to the editor and Mike Harrington in his column this week have defended the IFC. Point by point, may we set the record straight!

THE DAVIDSONIAN at no time “lauded the actions of the faculty concerning fraternities last spring. An April editorial after the monthly faculty meeting stated, “We now have a weak thing full of lumps which would only complicate any lasting solution to a full social life for each Davidson student.” We hardly see that as commending the professors’ action.

Furthermore, not one word concerning the fraternity issue was to be found in the editorial columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN during May of this year, as Carson suggests. In addition, the only mention of fraternities on the news pages are four paragraphs describing faculty action in May and a small story on the adoption of the rules governing rush for this year.

What the writer means by “already passe” is also confusing. Rather than old or out-of-date, “the fraternity issue” is currently under the careful and official scrutiny of the entire college community. As an IFC officer, Carson should well know that THE DAVIDSONIAN had no direct hand in the formulation of the current rush regulations, for, as Carson states, the faculty committee presented the IFC with a framework in which to operate. But this framework is, in general, exactly what the IFC had ordered only one month before, when they “strongly urged the adoption of the McGavock report.” (Professor W. G. McGavock was acting chairman of the faculty fraternity committee last spring.)

Carson implies that the framework and rules were all a burden to the IFC. We recall stating editorially on April 16 after the IFC endorsement, “The fraternity representatives are at the most grabbing for the mildest-sounding proposal for them.” The fraternity representatives received just what they asked for in their endorsement of the faculty committee’s recommendations.

The writer also erroneously states that the 7:30 p.m. clause is a faculty rule. The faculty resoundingly defeated several such stipulations in their April and May meetings, yet proceeded to direct the faculty fraternity committee to work out a rush system in accordance with the wishes of the trustees.

As flattering as it may sound, we must deny any “starring role” in the formation of the current rules. We rather unqualifiedly called for the adoption of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee's nine immediate recommendations and still maintain that this would be the most practical solution to any system of delayed rush. We felt then and feel now that sophomore rush would render unnecessary the sort of restrictive and detailed rules which now plague both fraternity men and freshmen.

Harrington, poor fellow, is even further off-base. He, too, fails to recognize that the IFC actually endorsed the stipulations which were eventually presented to them—the recommendations of the McGavock committee. The IFC should have realized what they were endorsing in the form of the McGavock report.

The columnist himself shows “a consistent disregard of both pertinent facts and fair play in his frantic attempt” to support the IFC’s actions. Substitution of the phrase “fraternity man” for “upperclassman” would indeed clarify many points in the new rush procedure. As Carson states, “The council does not have now, nor has it ever had, any jurisdiction over Independents.”

We have a certain distaste for chiding words thrown back and forth across a newspaper page. Yet, with such irresponsible charges made in the forum of this newspaper, we would feel sorely at fault in not setting the record straight. Had the IFC last week shown that they were making an earnest effort in trying to establish a practical set of regulations, we would have had no beef. But by failing even to attempt an explanation of the rules, especially the “no contact” clause, the council presented a facade of obstinacy. From the clarifications and remarks made at its meeting this week, the IFC has indeed improved its attitude. We only hope that a more careful consideration of the facts involved might prevent the recurrence of such misinformed statements as some in the forum this week.

Carson says, “The use of just a little rationale and thinking can clear up all of the supposed difficulties in the rush regulations for 1965-66.” We agree. But we feel that more is needed. Fraternities must be accurate and realistic in their views of the year’s events, recognizing not only what has happened, but why it has happened. They should be willing to work out not necessarily better regulations, but a better spirit, realizing that not only is their every action under scrutiny by the college community, especially by freshmen, but that they too stand to gain from the already apparent advantages of deferred rush. With a better attitude, then, the need for such extensive regulations would be minimal.

Assistant Editors: RUFUS ADAIR, JOHNNY CLARK, TOM CRAIG, MICHAEL HARRINGTON
Managing Editors: BILL AITKEN, DONALD DAVIS
Assistant Managing Editor: LOUIS LESESNE, PAUL MARION
Associate Editors: TOM COOK
News Editor: SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor: HEYWARD CARTER
Copy Editor: CHRIS HAWK
Assistant Copy Editors: BOB VANCE, DICK SPENCER
Sports Editor: BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor: ARCH McCALLUM
Photography Editor: TOM THEL
Photographer: CHIP PURVIS
Cartoonists: LOU HILL, JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager: BOB CAMERON
Advertising Manager: BILL WATSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors This Week: Johnny Wessell, Charles McEwen, Dick Thurston, Dick Richards, John Bailey, Robbie Hooker, Ron Snow, Carter Fussell, John Williams, Don Carroll, K. D. Weeks, Steve Brown, Yates Faison, Ted Winter, Bill Graham, Mike May, Grey Pash, Craig Wilson, Walt Drake, Mike Bates, Jamie Bryant, Cesar Andrade.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.80). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Graves Blasts Nzongola’s Criticism Of Clark's Story

Dear Editor:

I cannot help but feel that Mr. Nzongola’s intelligent, well-substantiated letter last week, concerning Johnny Clark's completely irresponsible writings, deserves praise from myself and all others who would serve the causes of freedom, equality, justice, and, most of all, responsible journalism. It was good to see him point out the fact that over half of the riot deaths were Negroes is proof beyond a doubt of the immensity of police brutality in Los Angeles. Despite the fact that many of the Negro deaths were administered by the rioters, and that those shot by police were guilty of such incidentals as shooting at firemen and rescue workers, running down National Guardsmen, storming hospitals, and the like, there was no excuse for the police to handle those individuals with anything but loving gentleness and human warmth. In fact, I am sure that if any of those killed while resisting officers had been politely requested to surrender and throw down their weapons, they would have done so without the slightest hesitation.

Mr. Nzongola’s advocation of journalistic responsibility was particularly well-exemplified by his act of labeling Clark a liar for writing that establishments with ‘Blood Brother" signs were spared by the rioters. Although Clark was well backed up in his statements by such publications as Time and Newsweek (which said, “A pattern of race-based selection emerged in the destruction. Stores and clubs that had posted signs indicating Negro ownership—‘Blood Brother’ or ‘Soul Brother’—were almost uniformly spared), these magazines have long been noted for bias and bigotry and a total lack of responsibility in news coverage. Mr. Nzongola did not cite his “good evidence” that “stores were damaged indiscriminately,” but I feel certain that this assertion is well-substantiated probably by a personal inspection by Mr. Nzongola himself of the riot scene.

Most impressive of all to me was Mr. Nzongola's intelligent statement pointing out that racial hatred was not a major factor in the riots. Here again, Time has merely shown its prejudice and irresponsibility by supporting Clark with ridiculous statements (such as: “From early morning, rioters surged through the streets screaming imprecations at Whitey—‘blue-eyed devils’, ‘Okies’, and ‘Cracker’ . . . “Every time a car with whites in it entered the area, word spread like lightning down the street: ‘Here comes Whitey—get him’ . . . Then young men and women would rush in and pull white people from their cars and beat them and try to set fire to their cars”, etc., etc.).

Probably by no one was the cause of brotherly love among all races more fervently espoused than by the gentle citizens of Watts. I feel a kindredship toward these people because I too have felt the terrible and senseless sting of discrimination and brutal treatment. The administration has discontinued my financial scholarship on the flimsy excuse of low academic marks, but I know in my heart that the real reason is a deep hatred by the rulers of Davidson for “hefty”, blue-eyed, blonde South Carolinians. I hope to acquire the support of Mr. Nzongola and other champions of non-discrimination in my plan to assert my rights by blowing up Chambers and pillaging President Martin's house. We must all remember that the cause of justice is a never-ending fight.

Sonny Graves
Davidson College

Carson

Dear Editor:

In those bleak days last Spring, it was THE DAVIDSONIAN which lauded the actions of the faculty in their castigation of Davidson's fraternities. It was THE DAVIDSONIAN which kept alive the already passe fraternity issue through May until the end of school. And, now, sure enough THE DAVIDSONIAN, under the cloak of criticism of the IFC, has managed to get its jibes in at fraternities in general (via The Wall Street Journal, another national newspaper, and The Christian Science Monitor) and Patterson Court in particular. The evaluation of fraternities engendered by THE DAVIDSONIAN’S spring fever was among the primary factors behind the rush regulations which it now criticizes. It is indeed incongruous that John Todd should discredit the formulation of rules in which he and his predecessor played such starring roles. Still, no matter how inconsistent Todd appears, the fact remains that the Interfraternity Council is receiving unwarranted bad press. It is my intention to offer explanation for IFC actions and to clarify disputed issues.

No, the IFC is not 12 fraternity hooligans meeting every Monday night for the purpose of finding new and better ways to burden freshmen. It does not intend to squelch fraternity rush. In the Spring of 1965, the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life presented the IFC with the framework of rules within which it had to operate. It was the job of the Council to review the regulations and to provide workable applications of them for fraternity rush this Fall.

Regarding specific gripes, I'll begin with the notorious “no upperclassmen in frosh dorms” rule. The faculty rule reads, “The IFC shall have regulations prohibiting upperclass contact with freshmen during the weekdays for the entire first semester after 7:30 p.m. in freshmen dorms and in fraternity houses.” Until two weeks ago that rule stood pretty much as it reads above. Then came the “dirty rush" charge. To the fraternity which broughtCharges, it sure looked as if "dirty rushing" were taking place, but there was no means of proving it. Realizing that the rule must be made a strictly enforceable, "black and white" statement, the IFC, after, I promise you, lengthy deliberation, extended the rule to its present reading which ensures clear-cut, easily definable enforcement. THE DAVIDSONIAN'S consternation over the appearance of upperclass or upperclassmen in the rules demonstrates the naivete with which it has approached the subject of the IFC, rush, and fraternities. The council does not have now, nor has it ever had, any jurisdiction over Independents. Moreover, the two words, upperclass and upperclassmen, appear in the rules only once each; in Article VII and in Article XV. The IFC is not a dictatorial organization endeavoring to harm the bleeding heart of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Article II of the By-Laws of the Interfraternity Council of Davidson College grants the right to the council to establish all rush regulations and rush schedules, submitting a copy to the Fraternity Liaison Officer.

FIRM BASIS
The new rush regulations are the result of a new rush system. Though they are bulky, they are not complicated. They establish a firm basis from which to work toward improvement of the Davidson fraternity system and engage in the continuing project of what is the best possible academic and social climate for Davidson students. If there are those among us who enjoy worrying over the regulations and finding new ways in which the rules interfere with their welfare, let them continue to do so. However, the use of just a little rationale and thinking can clear up all of the supposed difficulties in the rush regulations for 1965-1966. Yes, you can talk to your brother. Yes, you can deliver rifle cards or inquire about newspaper assignments. If problems still exist, your friendly IFC representatives, listed in the Wildcat Handbook, will be more than willing to lend aid. I humbly suggest that THE DAVIDSONIAN return to its expert coverage of the misdeeds of the President of the student body at Carolina—a task for which it is eminently better qualified.

Ai Carson
Davidson College

Nor does a Vick

Dear Editor:
In criticizing the theory of in loco parentis I submit the following description. There are three domains of responsibility in which the student-citizen finds himself: the academic, the civil, and the private. If the student-citizen violates academic regulations the academic community may require of him what it will. If he violates civil law the proper civil authority must act. If he violates his own standards then the burden of guilt is to be handled by method of his own dictation. Parental authority is not included because with the exception of certain financial obligations which they meet they have become for the student-citizen more of a moral memory than an active agent in the determination of behavior. Retribution, by officials within one domain, is not legitimately extended into another, except perhaps in what cases of conscience arise. Yet we see in the operation of in loco parentis at this school a double punishment incurred on the basis of supposedly delegated parental authority. Under this theory students violating civil law or students whose private relationships have been exposed are subject to some form of academic discipline. That this is ridiculous is seen in its converse: i.e., the possibility of being both expelled and arrested for failing to meet a course requirement.

LOCUS UNDEFINED
Objections in general aside, we are forced now to operate under the in loco theory. Yet unwarranted extensions of the theory are in evidence. The locus is not defined except in the sense that anything whatsoever that is detrimental to the institution’s image comes within it and is subject to punishment. The in loco theory was originally employed to govern the thirteen-year-old medieval schoolboy. It applied to a specific area from which the boy did not leave. This area itself was sacrosanct; beyond the civil law. We are no longer beyond the civil law. The law may give the college student deferential treatment but this is a failing within the law and should be ended. The infraction of civil law by students or the knowledge of their private lives is no longer definable as within the locus. In particular, in recent cases students apprehended by the civil authority or whose private affairs were made public have been either expelled or forced to leave school. Whether or not I condone or condemn each particular infraction or situation is inconsequential.

OTHER DOMAINS
These boys’ problems should not have been subject to school discipline. They fell either in the civil or the private domains. These students had left the Davidson Campus and were for all intents and purposes moving in the broader civil domain and were therefore free of the school’s concern for ‘image.’ That most colleges do dismiss boys whose actions cause extensive embarrassment is a fact. Yet whether or not it is proper or fair is another question. Whether or not the student acts maturely or not, responsibly or not, at times with the current mobility available he is beyond any reasonable definition of locus. And whether or not he is to be treated as a mature person on campus, or even, whether or not he is such, should be of no concern to the operation of the broader civil domain. There he is a citizen with responsibilities and rights and his enjoyment of those rights and his fulfillment or failure of those responsibilities is the concern of the civil authority and should not in any way affect his operation within the academic domain. All this raises the question. I do not present this as an answer; I have not approached the problem of the nature of concern and its potentials for criticism and definition. I would submit that the theory is at least inadequately defined and requires discussion, modification, and clarification. I offer this as the beginning of discussion.

Charles Vick
Davidson College

By MICHAEL HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

HEY FRESHMEN!
The Davidson Greek system and its IFC have rarely been misrepresented worse than they were in last week’s editorial columns. Whoever wrote the editorial “Suicide Attempt” showed a consistent disregard of both pertinent facts and fair play in his frantic attempt to depict the fraternity system in the worst possible light. That editorial implied that the Greeks here arbitrarily decreed delayed rush and the rush regulations, that they alone are responsible for the ban on dorm rush and the ensuing confusion. Had that editorial wished to be fair, it might have mentioned that this situation resulted from the faculty placing new restrictions on student social organizations, including the rule that there was to be delayed rush and no dorm rush first semester.

TO HALT DORM RUSH the IFC found all dorm contact had to be postponed until after January 3. There are three reasons for this: (1) Under the old regulations it was practically impossible to prove that an upperclassman was actually “rushing” a freshman; (2) rush contact can be and was planned to take place in upperclassman as well as freshman rooms; (3) there was the distinct threat of dirty rush by disaffiliated fraternity men and antagonistic Independents, as well as regular rush contact by Lingle Manor members. But that editorial missed all these points. And from this poor analysis of a news situation, the editorial concluded that perhaps “...freshmen are getting a true picture of how rash fraternity life can be for some people.”

TO SHOW “how rash fraternity life can be,” the editorial quoted three different articles discussing everything from fraternity membership to academic pressures—all this to show how the recent rush regulations were all the fault of the Davidson Greeks and their IFC. THE EDITORIAL’S BIAS against any set of rush regs and, I suspect, against fraternities in general, is displayed by more than its tendency to throw everything in sight at the poor Greeks. The editorial next concluded that “...the IFC is falling all over itself in trying to keep this game called ‘rush’ alive”—phrases like “their fickle rules” and “the startling capriciousness of the IFC” show the editorial’s determination to shift the blame from the new faculty regulations to the Greek system. Its next claim was that a substitution of the phrase “fraternity man” should be made for the word “upperclassman” in the rush regs, to “clarify many questions.” Such a step would indeed clarify many questions—it would leave Lingle Manor men and Independents free to influence freshmen to their heart’s content, while silencing the Greeks. The ease with which the editorial overlooked this point is amazing.

I DO AGREE with the editorial on one point in full: that it is regrettable that the class of 1969 should have to be the guinea pigs for the new changes, changes whether for better or for worse were made by the faculty last year. But the editorial writer prefers to blame the changes and the problems on the IFC, which was ordered by the same faculty to enforce those rules.

FRESHMEN, THESE RUSH REGS do cause inconvenience for you and both fraternity men and Independents. And we all regret it. But we all have to live with the faculty decisions and make the changes work—and I salute the IFC for their efforts to make these new changes work, even though many members are personally opposed to the change. No one likes the rush regs particularly—there are few who like the faculty interference. But the present set of rush regs are the most practical solutions to a very complex problem. And no doubt the changed situation will cause other problems which somehow we'll have to solve together. But meanwhile, don’t fall for the anti-Greek propaganda that says this glorified prep-school atmosphere is the fault of the fraternity men.

Student Joins Campaign To Retire Hetzel’s Number

Dear Editor:
Dr. Scott implicitly predicts that the retirement of Fred Hetzel’s number will lead to a rash of jersey withdrawals in years to come. True, that the team has upset the otherwise stringent academic equilibria of the student body taken collectively and in individual units (persons). This engulfing fever has spread like the proverbial wildfire, and hardly a student or faculty member has escaped an emotional ignition at the sight of No. 44 and his cohorts. At this point I believe that the insertion of a rigorously drawn analogy would be appropriate. Woodrow Wilson, it is rumored about, attended Davidson for one memorable year. He only made President of the U.S., never All-American, S.C. player of the year, or the Davidson team for that matter. For this achievement his seraphic face is forever encased in photographs which adorn our otherwise ornament-bare library. Had some farsighted professor persuaded Wilson not to go to Princeton, think of the greater glory—an equestrian statue perhaps. But what is Hetzel’s fate? He stuck it out, or thrived in this college community for four years. He never gave up and left a te Woodrow. If Hetzel had been shrewd and cunning like Woody, he would have transferred to another institution and thereby secured the withdrawal of his jersey. The reverberations would have undoubtedly reached publicity-starved Davidson, and the banners, plaques, signs, and announcements reading “Fred Hetzel went here” would have unfurled like bribes on Judgment Day. But, no, this isn't the case. No plaques, no banners, no signs, not even one bribe in his favor. To allay Dr. Scott's fears concerning number retirement I would like to set forth the following suggestion: Whereas, a system of number rotation could be devised along the lines of Elpert Umstein's “Exponential Theory for the Withdrawal and Returning of Basketball Numbers from and to the Game in Dire Emergencies Due to a Surplus of All-Americans.” Umstein's study definitely proposes to handle all situations resulting in All-American overflow with respect to, and total coverage of, the limited number supply. If we can’t retire his number, maybe his shoes could be bronzed? But the crucial situation of the world bronze shortage...

Mike Richardson
Davidson College