PAGE SIX

Evaluation Committee To Visit Campus Sunday

By MASON STEPHENSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A seven-man committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities (SACU) will visit the campus Nov. 14-17 to evaluate the college and its Self-Study Report. According to Fred Sackett, assistant to the president, the committee will be “trying to gain a detailed perspective of the operation of the college.” Sackett also stated that when the committee arrives on campus, they will already have a thorough knowledge of the college through the comprehensive self-study report. The report was released to this committee on Oct. 21.

“It is amazing what they (the committee) will find out by just talking to faculty, students, and administration,” Sackett continued. “They have tremendous access to everything on campus.” In speaking about the student interviews, Sackett said that most of them will take place on an individual basis, but the committee will be eating many times with the students. They will talk to students while waiting in line at the College Union and also while eating at fraternity houses. The committee will use the knowledge gained while visiting the campus to evaluate the Self-Study Report and to evaluate the college. Then this seven-man committee will present its report to the SACU which will then decide on accreditation.

The report itself consists of nine chapters which cover all aspects of the college and college life. Sackett said that it is mostly a report of the present state of the college and contains some general outlines for the future. Sackett said that at the present only the evaluation committee, several members of the administration, and the steering committee have copies or are familiar with its contents. When the committee makes its visit next week, the faculty will receive copies of the report. However, each faculty member is already familiar with the particular chapter that his committee drew up. Copies will also be released to the Board of Visitors and the Board of Trustees at that time.

By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Nearly all the southern regional officials of the Slater Food Service have visited Davidson during the past few weeks, according to Dining Room Coordinator Madeline Scott, who is here now. After numerous faculty and student complaints about food and service at the Union cafeteria, followed by a busy weekend during which the college had to draft some of its maintenance crew to help the understaffed cafeteria caterer for several luncheons, the college contacted Slater’s regional office in Atlanta.

“Any time there is trouble, we send whoever is needed,” commented Miss Scott, who added that both southern regional supervising chefs, the regional operations manager, and the district (North Carolina) manager have visited Davidson. Lawson Brown, who was here several weeks ago, said that he found conditions at Davidson below par in several areas. Both Miss Scott and he said that they found sanitary conditions in the kitchen and dining areas of the cafeteria sub-standard when they arrived.

“We've done an overall general clean-up,” commented Miss Scott. Virginia Cannady, recently appointed assistant cafeteria manager, said that an exterminator had taken care of the problem of rats and mice in the cafeteria. In addition, Brown specifically mentioned that he wanted to try to speed up services by extensively reorganizing work in the serving areas, improving efficiency of personnel, and speeding up production, so that long lines and other delays can be avoided. Miss Scott commented that the major problem was in “training the help and setting up patterns” to avoid inefficiency. Brown said that he hoped to improve and vary the menus.

A food preference survey was conducted last week to give officials here guidelines to work with in writing new menus. “I read every comment,” Miss Scott said. “After tabulation, I will know what foods the boys like.” She said that the survey sheets have been sent away for tabulation and should be back within a month so that she can begin work on “adjusting menus to break the monotony.”

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

According to Dr. J. Randolph Taylor, there are basically two directions in life — either “out of this world or down to earth. Which are we taking?” This was the question asked in chapel Monday by Taylor, former Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson and now minister of the Church of the Pilgrims in Washington, D.C. His forceful manner left no doubt in the minds of his audience that the answer was an extremely important one. The first direction, “out of this world,” is an easy one to take: it is simply a movement to get beyond ourselves. The whole escape pattern of our mechanism and our society is to get out of this world,” Taylor asserted. “There is nothing wrong with this attitude.” But here Taylor hastened to add, “There is nothing right with it either, for the hopefulness of this attitude is an illusion.”

AMERICANS MEET WITH KOREAN AIR FORCE GENERAL
Brown, Left and Other Conferred At Seoul Air Force Base

Brown Gets ‘Deals’ In Tour Of Far East

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

It was “good deals” all around this summer — for junior George Brown, for the State Department, and for two Presbyterian missionaries in Korea. This, at least, is Brown’s opinion of the tour he took this summer of the Far East. Sponsored by the National Student Association and completely financed by the State Department, Brown's trip was more than a tour: it was an experiment in relations and the interchange of ideas between students of Japan, Korea, and Hong Kong and students of the United States. By this trip of five weeks in the Orient, American students got a chance to meet with their counterparts in these three countries and to give them a better understanding of American college life and American life in general, and vice-versa.

Six students representing “a good geographical distribution of the U.S.” were chosen by the NSA to represent their country on this tour. Two girls and four boys (all of whom except Brown had completed their undergraduate work) who were in some way interested or connected with the Far East were picked from a large number of applicants in Philadelphia last spring. Brown feels that one of the major reasons he was chosen was his connection with the Orient, having lived there for 10 years in Japan and Korea with his parents, who are Presbyterian missionaries. After being selected, Brown and the five others met in Washington on June 2 for almost a week of “briefing” and orientation by State Department officials and officials of NSA. They were told that all travel expenses plus a liberal allowance of $15 a day for room and board would be paid by the State Department.and the NSA would plan their itinerary. At no time, however, were the six coached or instructed in what to say to their counterparts in the Orient. Leaving Washington on June 6, the group flew, via Chicago and Anchorage, to Korea for two weeks, to Hong Kong for one week, and to Japan for the final week. “In all countries visited the program of the group was arranged by the United States Information Service and the US Embassy in the area. Once introduced, the students were on their own to further their contacts.” The six mainly visited different schools and universities and met with campus groups which were usually of a political club or student government nature. “A lot of time was spent in talking about the political situation in the US and those countries.” This was the first of what is hoped to be a regular series of trips contingent on the State Department and planned by the NSA, although a similar group was touring the Philippines at the same time that Brown’s group was in the Far East. Brown says that it was “an eye-opener in seeing what the attitudes of other students toward the U.S. was and how their education system differs from ours. In Korea, most of the students were concerned with internal problems and there was not much anti-American feeling.”

“In Japan the big factor seemed to be the Viet Nam issue. Most students opposed the stand of the U.S. in some degree. The first question in Japan was always, ‘Why don't you get out of Viet Nam?’ In Korea especially, the student was very frank and ready to discuss right off almost anything.” 

In summing it up Brown said, “I liked the idea that the State Department was willing to give money to NSA with no strings attached. There was no attempt by the State Department to influence what we were going to say one way or the other. Quite often, as a matter of fact, there would be open dissension among us (the group) and opposition to U.S. foreign policies. All in all it was very worthwhile.”

Taylor explained that if the purpose of life is to escape, as this “out of the world” doctrine seems to believe, then we should not be surprised that the movement is one of withdrawal. Our “faith interprets that we are the end of God's purpose” so we withdraw from others because we believe that we are above them. When this withdrawal reaches the church, however, it is a suicidal tendency, for the church cannot afford to withdraw from the world. This brings us to the second direction — “down to earth.” The ethos for this direction is one of identification and is out of the New Testament. “The Word,” Taylor expounded, “was made flesh and lived among us.” This is truly a philosophy which “cuts across the pattern of the fabric of humanity,” for in it one must go against the natural “out of this world” theory. Christianity is something, then, which is very much concerned with the “down to earth” approach to life. God is just an oblong blur somewhere until he is fleshed out in the heart and hands of a human," declared Taylor. Similarly, “The symbols of the Christian faith are not a ladder into the great somewhere, but they are things one can touch, feel and bleed on.” “You and I,” concluded Taylor, “live in a new age. The question hangs in the balance — whether we shall stand in the principle of escape or of identity.” The answer in Taylor's view, is found in whether or not the two thirds of the world’s population which has yet to accept Christianity is shown a concrete “why” it should.

THE OAKS MOTOR COURT
344 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C. 28115
Owners and Mgrs. Bill and Hazel Sprinkle
Telephone 663-5693

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
Hub FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
217 N. Tryon St.

Pipe Smokers
It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.
Maison Michel
Charlotte, N. C.
375-9723

Annual To Emphasize Picture, Informality
By ROB POWELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Smile! You are on the Quips and Cranks camera. Yes, photographers from Quips and Cranks seem to be everywhere on the Davidson campus this year. The reason, says Arnie Snider, editor, is that the annual staff this year is especially concentrating on good pictures. Of course, there is much more to the annual than merely taking pictures. Snider made up the layout this summer, and his staff is working constantly on putting it together in the package that Snider hopes students will receive in the middle of next May. In an interview Snider said that in contrast to last year the theme will be more dominant, the emphasis will be on informality and the pictures will concentrate not on who is doing but what they are doing. He further stated that his idea of a good annual is one that sticks to school life and does not try to criticize the world situation. Editor Snider's staff consists of Woody Coleman and Ed Dwelle, assistant editors; Buck Rae, honoraries; Tom Thel, faculty; Herb Allan and George Ludwig, social and fraternities; Kirk Reed, athletics. The publication also draws on the talents of Chris Hudgins, classes; Phil Beidler and Dave Powell, copy editors. The photographers include Tom Thel, Marc Simpson, Rob Johnson, Bill Olson, Doug King, and Andy Bird. The final deadline for the 1965-66 Quips and Cranks is indefinite, but will be sometime in March. At that time it will be sent to Charlotte Engraving and then to the Observer Printing House for completion. The cover, says Snider, will be “original” and although things are a little slow sometimes, he is sure that it will be ready for the students on time.

Date Housing Open For Next Weekend
Approximately 175 places will be available for housing dates for concert weekend, Nov. 20-21, according to a list of approved community and faculty homes maintained by Mrs. Peter Nichols, supervisor of dormitories. Mrs. Nichols stated that the 12 places in the Guest House have been filled for several weeks for Saturday night, but that there may still be rooms available for Friday night. The list of approved homes, which includes all faculty homes, is sent to area schools and may be picked up at Mrs. Nichols’s office, but students must personally contact the person renting the place. The charge for one night in a private home is $3 and for two nights is $5. The girls are expected to pay the fee, not the Davidson student.

Office Supplies * Advertising Specialties * Business Machines * Business Forms * Calendars * Typewriters
EVERYTHING FOR THE OFFICE
SEE US
J. ED McNEELY
McNEELY’S OFFICE SUPPLIES
Dial 662-2211
128 S. Main St.

IT'S TIME TO WINTERIZE YOUR WARDROBE
You can start today with a new outfit from—
RUSH WILSON LTD.
Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.