Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Oops...

Browsing through the Wildcat Handbook this week, we noticed that the notorious “trunk rule” which was approved by the faculty
last December had been omitted from the faculty regulations. Feeling that there was surely some error of omission in including
the amendment in this year’s handbook, we naturally asked if for some reason the insertion had been overlooked. The answer:
No. The omission was not a mistake, we were told, and was brought about by the amendment to the student
body drinking rule which was approved last May on the day before examinations began. A condition clause in the “trunk
rule” approved by the faculty stated that the rule would be automatically rescinded if the student body drinking rule were
amended at any time except for including the trunk rule provision.

What is so ironic about the matter is that the amendment approved by the student body in May brought the
student regulation on drinking more in line with the faculty ruling, yet the “trunk rule” was still rescinded. Article VII,
Section 2 of the student body regulations prohibits the possession of alcohol on campus. It reads in part, “Every student
found guilty of violation of this regulation will be punished according to the seriousness of the offense...” The trunk rule
follows. Before the amendment was adopted, the rule read, “Every student found guilty of violation of this regulation shall be
suspended from the College...,” a rule with no exceptions.

There are doubtless many students now with liquor in the trunks of their automobiles, yet truthfully ignorant of the change
in the faculty regulations. Last spring when the question was put before the student body there was no mention made
of the possible removal of the “trunk rule” by the faculty. Student Body President Bill Council told THE DAVIDSONIAN that
he had no knowledge of the omission of the “trunk rule” until last weekend. Other student leaders questioned about the
situation had no knowledge of the change either. Only last month a letter from the office of the dean of
students was sent to all students informing them of the change in the traffic regulations prohibiting motorbikes on campus. No
notice was sent about the trunk rule.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr. asserted that while the drinking rule amendment was adopted before the end of
school last spring, the change in the traffic regulations was made during the summer; thus, students were informed of the
change by mail. Dean Burts told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week that he was informed of the condition clause in the
faculty minutes of last December while compiling the material for the handbook this summer. The ire of some professors was
drawn this week at the faculty's monthly meeting, when it was announced that the rule had been taken off the
books by the administration this summer in accordance with the condition clause. Fortunately, some professors plan to re-introduce the “trunk
rule” at the faculty’s next meeting in October.

We are sorry to see this situation arise. Definitely the administration is at fault in failing to advise the student
body, much less the student leaders, of the automatic rescission of the rule. But on the other hand, students themselves
may shoulder some of the responsibility because of the hurried manner in which the amendment was adopted—on a reading day
before examinations. In a May 21 editorial, we questioned the then-pending referendum: “We do question the haste in presenting this
matter before the student body in such an unorthodox manner. Holding the referendum on a reading day before examinations smirks
of the hasty moves by which the infamous Speaker Ban Law was adopted by the North Carolina General Assembly two
years ago.” The consequences of running headlong into the drinking amendment are probably not so great as those raised by
the helter-skelter lawmakers, but the lessons to be learned are similar. “Haste makes waste,” goes the old saw. It sure
made a mess of things here.

A Word To The Wise

Along with the many other members of the college community, we wish to take time to welcome the members of
the Class of 1969 to the campus. Each freshman is probably so full of advice from so many people that
anything we might add would seem trite or superfluous or both. The class as a whole has brought tremendous credentials
along with the traditional tag, “the best yet.” Yet professors around here have a way of throwing credentials out the
window when it comes to classroom work.

Freshmen this year have a particular challenge before them as they test the new rush system adopted by the IFC
last year following the fraternity evaluation discussions. Several observers have remarked that the Class of '69 seems so much more
sophisticated about fraternities than those in years past. This is good, for heretofore the naivete of many freshmen was atrocious
and often disastrous. We do not envy the IFC in trying to enforce the revised rush regulations for this year.
Dirty rush has been prevalent in the past in the short span of a week’s rushing period. With rush actually
spread out across the entire semester for the first time, strict enforcement should be the watchword to prevent an embarrassing
situation for the fraternity system. Elaborate rush plans must be in the making, however, as the rush chairmen for nearly
every fraternity were on campus before freshmen orientation began. Some were even seen as freshmen arrived for the pre-orientation camp.

Hardly anything but praise has been heard for the fine work done by the YMCA at this year’s freshman camp.
With a growing number of freshmen attending the camp each year, the future potential for the camp is unlimited. This
year nearly two-thirds of the freshman class attended. With a growing number of students attending the camp, the college should
recognize that many parents will be arriving with their sons before the first official day of orientation. Tuesday when the
freshman parents arrived with their sons the campus was littered with limbs and other trash. Some parents even complained that
the dorms were not clean. It is likely that more parents were on campus for the beginning of freshmen camp
than on Thursday when the college laid out the red carpet for the visitors.

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
BOB HOWARD

News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Assistant Copy Editor
BOB VANCE

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON

Advertising Manager
BILL WATSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Bob Travers, John Bailey, Frank Fleming, Mike Mooty, Joe Bentley, Mason Stephenson, Carter Fussell, Lindsay Davis, Price
Cameron, George Rogister, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen, Dick Thurston, Dick Spencer, and Tom Cook.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second
class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Student Sees Close Race In Sunday's German Vote

(Editor’s Note: West Berlin Mayor Willy Brandt challenges Chancellor Ludwig Erhard in Sunday’s West German national election, the first balloting
in the strategic European country since incumbent Erhard replaced aging Konrad Adenauer three years ago. A Richardson Scholar below previews
the upcoming voting for THE DAVIDSONIAN.)

By ERHARD JORCHEL
Richardson Scholar

There are three major political parties in Germany: the Liberals (FDP), the Socialists (SPD), and the Christian Democratic Union. The
CDU has been in power for 16 consecutive years. The party was formed after World War II mainly by members
of the former Centrum Party which had been a Catholic party in the Weimar Republic. But soon Protestant politicians joined
the party and under the able leadership of Konrad Adenauer the CDU developed into a truly supra-denominational party. In the
term of 1956 the CDU even managed to capture the absolute majority but at the same time it had acquired
its peak. In the next elections they lost their absolute majority and were forced to form a coalition with the
Liberals.

The Liberals represent about 12 per cent of the population in the parliament (Bundestag). But even though they are a
comparatively small party (CDU, 46 per cent, SPD, 42 per cent), they could force Adenauer to resign in favor of
Erhard, the former Minister of Economics. They also claimed in the new government some important departments, among them the department
of justice. The CDU had even to accept Erich Mende, the leader of the FDP, as vice-chancellor. But that was...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared
with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4
p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.the price the CDU was willing to pay in order to keep the SPD
barred from the government. The SPD has formed for 16 years the opposition and they are thoroughly tired of it.
Willy Brandt, mayor of West Berlin and leader of the SPD, is more than ready to overtake Erhard's place. The
SPD has long given up Marxist ideals and presents now about the same program as the CDU—free enterprise with mild
socialistic influences. Since the major parties have almost identical party programs, election of persons rather than parties. And that’s probably
why the CDU will eventually emerge with a slight advantage. Erhard's image seems to be indelibly good and reflecting economic
growth and stability. Furthermore, the CDU can show some remarkable accomplishments and claim to advise even more if they stay
in power. In favor of the SPD, on the other hand, is the fact that many people are tired of
the CDU and would like to see how someone else could do the job. The SPD also has the advantage
of a team which on the whole is younger and shows more energy than the aging team of the CDU.
So it’s going to be a very close race and it’s hard to predict anything. I dare say, however, that
very likely the CDU will rule for another four years, since they will always be strong enough to form a
government. This election will be largely an alliance with the Liberals.

Wildcat Handbook Proves Useful Guide
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A Review

Only a few sins of omission and commission mar this year's Freshman class Bible. The work of Britt Snider and
his 1965 Wildcat Handbook staff has produced an attractive and handy publication for the use of all Davidsonians. Lou Hill's
well-done impression of Chambers graces the book’s light green cover. The volume’s dimensions have been reduced a half inch in
length and width, and it is 24 pages shorter than last year’s edition. Greatest innovation in my opinion is the
full-page, section-divider photographs. These replace the humorous, but unprofessional, cartoons of last year. The well-chosen photographs ably introduce their sections.
Editor Snider explains in his introduction that room numbers were unneeded and purposely left out due to delayed rush. He
anticipates the appearance of the APO Directory before Rushing begins. Pages 13 and 14 contain To Freshmen ‘Helpful Hints’ of
value to students old and new. Notably missing from the publication are the campus directory and town of Davidson map.
Both of these have in past years proved invaluable to the student, and I am sorry to see them omitted.
Typographical errors, pardonable in a newspaper but not in a publication such as the Handbook, were fairly evident, particularly on
pages 77 and 78. The missing picture game ruined the continuity of the Handbook’s Class of 1969 lineup. This could
be remedied by a bit of summer letter writing to incoming Freshmen for whom the staff has no photograph. A
bit of Sniderian humor can be found on page 66. We wish the Committee for Queens’ Dates every success. The
new Handbook continues the recent trend to make the publication a useful campus guide. The personal comments by staff members
throughout give what could be a sterile rulebook a bit of life.

‘Freedom Of Thought Is Essential To Education’

The essence of democratic education is freedom of thought. It is taught not only by precept but by example. When
the example violates the precept, the student can understandably become cynical or confused. Possibilities for such reactions were raised by
the controversy over Prof. Eugene Genovese at Rutgers. They have been dispelled by the decision of the university’s board of
governors not to prefer charges against Professor Genovese. At issue was the possible effect of Dr. Genovese’s Marxist intellectual position
on his qualifications as a teacher. The storm arose when he spoke out at a teach-in last April. Now the
board has said that all its members are “completely out of sympathy” with the views Dr. Genovese expressed. But it
does not find these views grounds for dismissal. It notes that the professor was judged not to have violated his
scholarly responsibilities, the laws of his state, or the regulations of his university, including the requirement to take a loyalty
oath. We, too, are ‘completely out of sympathy’ with Dr. Genovese’s Marxist views. Last year we also disapproved of what
the trustees of the University of Illinois had called an “unreasoned and vitriolic” attack on President Kennedy in the John
Birch Society's magazine, American Opinion. Yet we supported the trustees in deciding not to discharge the Illinois teacher who wrote
it. Academic freedom is vital to the spirit of inquiry that fosters education for democratic citizenship. It must be allowed
to cut both ways—to the right and to the left—whether the majority agrees or disagrees. The Illinois trustees concurred with
the report of a faculty committee on academic freedom that a professor “must have the right to be as ungloriously
wrong and suffer the professional consequences thereof, as to be gloriously right and receive the acclaim of his professional colleagues
therefor.” Society requires control of behavior. But organizational efforts to control thought must be resisted as dangerous to human advancement.
If the citizen of law-abiding behavior is penalized for unpopular intellectual views, it is not hard to imagine a totalitarian
progression to penalizing law-abiding citizens for unpopular religious convictions. Freedom for views with which we disagree—this is at the heart
of the democratic system. The hidden persuaders are more of a danger than the open espouser of unpopular ideas.
—The Christian Science Monitor

Name
Address
I enclose $4.00
Bill me at $4.50

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Don't Miss A Single Issue This Fall!

CLOSE-UP
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

You're back. Kennedy Airport's runway looms up, then meets the ponderous Boeing 707, bearing her safely in. You're almost home.
It’s been a year. Wearily you unfasten the seat belt, rise, and head out into the stuffy July evening. All
the signs are in English, and you think it strange for an INTERNATIONAL airport. A smiling customs official welcomes you
home, stamps your passport, and ushers you on to his not-so-friendly assistant. Assistant addresses you in Brooklynese. A perfunctory check,
and then a “Stay at home for a while, Thomas,” as a final enjoinder. “Is it any of your business?”
you wonder. You emerge from Customs bearing two suitcases, a typewriter, an overcoat, and a neatly packaged gallon of French
Sunshine, and confront America. At this point you have been awake for twenty straight hours, but it is only seven
o'clock in New York. “Gotta get sleep,” you think. Air France tries a hotel reservation for you. Nothing at Kennedy.
Nothing in mid-town. It’s Greenwich Village or nothing. Saturday night, World’s Fair season. “Home,” you murmur, “Maybe I can get
home.” Over to Eastern’s counter. No flight until Sunday for Spartanburg. Charlotte, Queen City of the South, was accessible by
one flight that evening; a one-change, three-stop hedge-hopper, leaving in an hour from LaGuardia. You decide to join WHEALS (We
Hate Eastern Air Lines Scheduling).

OFF TO DIXIE

You decide to take it, buy your ticket, and head for LaGuardia via taxi. The size of the ’59 Plymouth
astounds you. The loudly playing radios in the cars around you on the clogged Van Wyck Expressway are unnerving. The
driver says, “Jees, feller, yer shure do have a funny accent.” “Same to you,” you mutter. Disgorged at LaGuardia; French
Sunshine rattles furiously. Overcoat gains weight in the 90-degree heat. Drop plastic typewriter; no crack; “cover made in Italy.” You
hop into a telephone booth, dial home. No answer. Dial Charlotte relatives, a familiar voice answers. “I’m coming in tonight
at 1:25,” you say, “Meet me at Douglas Airport.” Squeal of delight. Board shuttle flight for Washington. You've been up
22 hours now. Collapse into first seat, wanting to be left alone. “May I sit here?” man asks. You nod
yes and he sits down beside you. He’s an evangelist—all you need. You tell him you're right with God so
he'll leave you alone. Capitol City is reached. Change planes. Lug baggage. Telephone Charlotte. “I am this far.” Board the
Charlotte plane. There are four passengers. Stewardess went to high school with you. You've been up 24 hours straight. Land
Richmond. Passenger leaves. Land Raleigh-Durham. Two passengers leave. Leave Durham. It’s you, the pilot, the stewardess, the co-pilot, and four
engines. You doze. The vibration lessens. You look out your window. Yep; it’s you, the pilot, the stewardess, the co-pilot,
and THREE engines. You join VEAL (Vive Eastern Air Lines). If one more engine goes, you plan to join HELP.

CAROLINA

Charlotte appears on the horizon. You are genuinely surprised to have gotten this far. The crate lands. You hit the
26-hour no-sleep mark. Down the steps, onto Carolina soil, into the arms of a tearful Mother, a tearful Aunt, and
a sleepy Uncle. Home is where the heart is, they say. But you know that part of your heart is
left behind, with a family with whom you shared a year, with a people whom you grew to love. You
know this, but your tired brain tells you it would be futile to mention it to the folks. You will
do that tomorrow. After all, you've been up for a day. You turn your back to the plane, head toward
the Terminal, as that oft-stifling engine, ‘The South,’ receives a son back into her vast womb.

Name
City
State
New
Renewal
Mail to: Circulation
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036
