Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp
Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1965

Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.

Bye-Bye, Paternalism

Several weeks ago we commended the faculty action on the drinking rule, which evidenced increased confidence among the professors in the maturity and responsibility of the Davidson student body. This confidence was not misplaced. We are now concerned about the current discussion over the new regulation and about the possibility that the new rule may be repealed. Such a rescission would certainly be a step backward in the progressive movement which is carrying Davidson toward the position of a truly superior institution among the nation’s liberal arts schools. Such a progressive attitude was, of course, most recently manifested in the abolishment of the antiquated faculty oath. That a college which intends to produce responsible men possessing sound judgment and high social maturity should not retain an extremely paternalistic regulation which would prohibit students’ freedom of choice away from Davidson seems to require no further explanation. Last month’s faculty action exemplifies such intentions on the part of the school. Some further points may be considered before any future decisions are reached. The freedom granted to the Social Council to schedule off-campus affairs is advantageous for obvious reasons.

The Strategic Line

We harbor a certain distaste for clarifying the biased remarks of Bill Trotter in his letter to the editor this week, for the letter itself partly exemplifies the very “rash and foolish” comments of which we spoke several weeks ago. Such misleading and misinformed observations by Trotter lead directly to the confused conversations which temper this campus so often. We have said before and will continue to claim that honest and sincere criticism is a healthy part of any academic community. But we simply have no patience with those who would take advantage of the forum of this newspaper to air their sluggish and confused feelings. In the first instance, many students failed to inform themselves of the published trial procedure (i.e., Wildcat Handbook, pp. 46-47) of the Honor Court and jumped instead to hasty conclusions about the recent trial. What could be more imprudent than complete ignorance of such pertinent details? When the fact became known that the student who was dismissed had admitted his guilt several days after the trial, many persons remained silent concerning this “new development” about which Trotter writes and chose instead to watch the campus rumors perpetrate even more viciously. What is more, we did not call for an end to all student criticism, by any means. Instead, we ended the specific editorial with an admonition for all students to present their statements and opinions through the proper avenues of expression. Therefore, it is encouraging that Trotter would use this forum to express his opinions to the college audience. Perhaps it is “high time” that the Honor Court comes in for some serious criticism, as he suggests. But what misinformation it is to imply that the court had anything to do with the three cases cited. Only one of the cases — the first — was brought before the Honor Court, the other cases were not even tried by the court. Finally, we would point out that our terms “rash and foolish” were clearly applied to the statements, and not to the students themselves. The fact that nearly every U.S. daily newspaper devoted a lead editorial recently to the anti-Vietnam demonstrations by students is evidence to us of some concern by students here, and Trotter has evidenced that fact. We never intended to hide the fact that the opinions were not our own but hoped instead by such a sampling of editorial comments to stimulate some statements from the Davidson student on the demonstrations. But, alas, Trotter is the only one so far to fulfill our expectations. Concerning the current demonstrations of student concern all across the country, we were interested to read reports of the move afoot at the University of California at Los Angeles to close the obviously growing gap in communication between college students and administrators on the nation’s campuses. Nearly all of the various activist movements which are present on UCLA’s sister campus at Berkeley can be counted on the sprawling grounds in Los Angeles. Yet, the absence of a crisis atmosphere at UCLA is obvious. Also obvious is the reason for that difference — the invisible but strategic line of communication between student and administration which is fostered and always open at UCLA. Similar to Davidson’s student-faculty conference committee, a group composed of three students — the heads of the graduate and undergraduate schools and the newspaper editor at UCLA — and three administrators meet once a month to discuss the problems of a school with 26 times the enrollment of Davidson. “We feel that the only way to deal with this generation of students is to talk with them. I won't talk with an ad hoc group, but I will talk with any legitimate group of its students, any time, whatever their mission,” observed the UCLA chancellor, Dr. Frank D. Murphy. We believe that the administration at Davidson shares such an attitude. With demands and pressures on students and college officials alike, it may be easy for such unilateral statements as Trotter’s to blurt out. Increasingly it seems, progressive changes can only be made through a growing confidence shared by both groups on campus.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK

Associate Editors
Assistant Editors
News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Photographer
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON

Advertising Manager
BILL WATSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors This Week: Bill Richmond, Don Sewell, Jim Marrow, Joel Keys, Chip Robertson, K. D. Weeks, Doug Crisp, Sonny Graves, Mike Johnson, Carter Fussell, Ernie DePascale, Bill Graham, Jim Cooley, Price Cameron, Robbie Hooker, John Williams, Bill Seigler, Craig Wilson, John Bailey, Kern Parker, Rob Powell, Mason Stephenson, Bob Travers, Cameron Ferguson, Peter Guerrant, Charles McEwen, Bob Schofield, John Wessel, Dave Orr, Dick Richards and Dick Thurston.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 20036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Trotter Blasts Editor's Honor Court Stand

Dear Editor:

I arrived on campus about midnight of the 26th and found a message for me from the editors of this paper. I had several days earlier given vent to considerable spleen by writing as vicious a letter as I could attacking the whole reactionary spread on the editorial page of the next-to-last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, especially the pronouncements on the criticisms of the Honor Court. A new development in the case around which this criticism had generated, rendered portions of my letter invalid and the editors very decently warned me in time for me to either revise or retract it. As I had just finished driving 300 miles, had slept five hours in the past two and a half days and had a tough review the next morning, I was in no mood to attempt much of anything, much less something as demanding of calm thought as revision of a letter. I tore the thing up. That was a mistake. A revision was necessary and the main point of that first letter is as important as ever. Said main point is this: That it is nothing short of outrageous for the editors of this paper — a paper which in the past has been fairly courageous in its opposition to some of the things that keep this campus in such a constant state of intellectual constipation — should condemn those who criticized the Honor Court as “rash and foolish.” The most embittered criticism came not from the usual campus leftists, but from some usually quiet and solid students whose reason, character and academic achievement have gained them wide respect on this campus. The student involved in this case was well-liked and admired — those who knew him, and those who learned of some of the inconsistencies and oh-so-strange procedural aspects of the legal function that “got” him were upset and critical. But can the editors honestly say that placing a concern for simple human justice and the entire future fate of a fellow student above traditional acquiescence to anything spoon-fed us from The Top constitutes a “rash and foolish” action? If enough people GOT concerned, some of the crimes against the human spirit which go on here might be stopped. Writing editorials against those who are concerned is no way to waken this campus. It is ironic that this editoral was followed by a “semi-editorial” (“semi” because it was written with scissors and paste rather than a typewriter) condemning the anti-Vietnam policy demonstrations. How pathetically funny the newspaper of a school so totally unaware of the twentieth century should heap blanket scorn on people who — however naive and ill-informed they may be — at very least, have the guts and energy to get up off their cans and DO something in the name of some cause bigger than themselves. No one around here apparently does. It doesn’t matter whether the Honor Court has been around for forty years or four hundred — it’s high time it came in for some serious criticism. One thinks back to the notorious beer-can-under-the-back-seat case.

Seamans

Dear Editor:

Much discussion has taken place concerning how Davidson will spend the money provided by the recently announced Ford Foundation challenge grant. It seems to me that these discussions have not taken into account one of the most important parts of the famous Davidson College liberal education, namely compulsory ROTC. Most people seem to think that the funds will be used for such pedestrian matters as increasing faculty salaries, adding to the endowment, and releasing other money for buying books and perhaps, in the not-too-distant future, building a more adequate library. What kind of talk is this? Are we to infer that keeping a good professoris more important than expanding the military science department? Are we to infer that books for the library are more important than tomes for the ROTC reference room? In seat case, the spicy motel-bed-room-case, and the somewhat ludicrous "Red-Eye" case, the whole dirty atmosphere surrounding these and similar cases should prove to anyone who troubles to look that Davidson's system is set up to dispense justice, but mainly to protect the school’s bloated and fraudulent public relations image. Anything to keep that ol’ money flowing in and those occasionally absurd DC Bulletins flowing out...

The Honor Court is not altogether to blame—it is hamstrung by a system which makes little provision for mercy and the exigencies of circumstance. But the Honor Court has been guilty of Gestapo tactics in past years. One remembers the student who was physically taken by two goons from the Court and led across campus for questioning (one under each arm, in approved MP style); one remembers the absolutely psychotic way traps have been laid for offenders, or in an attempt to create offenders during a dull season—money laid out on dressers in plain sight, door left open, spies gleefully waiting in the closet to snag any culprit; one remembers much more...

I mean no slur on any Honor Court member, past or present, but let us admit that such an office brings out those festering little streaks of megalomania present inside all of us. It is reported that John Calvin, while watching preparations for a mass burning-at-the-stake of heretics, remarked, "Use green wood—that way they'll have more time to repent."

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

Tuesday Afternoon

Dear Editor:

As an addendum to Mr. Graham's description of honor as the death of a way of life: Cheating is bad. Why? Because it is stealing. How? Because you are taking something, his thought, from someone and using it for personal gain. Do we punish people because they attempt to attract attention or to be better than they are? No, but because they harm the other person by unfairly appearing better than this other from whom they have stolen. How? If the teacher grades on the curve, the student who by cheating receives an unfairly good grade raises the curve and lowers the average grade. Well (even if we knew that cheaters always steal the correct information), do we protect the relative status of others by removing the cheater? No, not in the bad sense of the word status. We rather allow everyone to do his honest best and to receive his honest due. Being graded on the curve is receiving one’s honest due? When we leave the university, the only way people will know what we have done is by looking at our grades and how they stand in relation to the grades of others. Are these grades reliable? There are many different colleges. One must know the reputation of the particular school; then the grades from that school will mean something. What? There are many professors. Grades are an indication, a general one, of how a student stands in relation to his fellows. Or of how much particular kinds of work he has done? Yes, but this work is the acquisition of scholarly method and therefore perhaps the most important thing a student can do. So a student works, is ranked, then sent to a job on the basis of his ranking, and ranked again. What do they learn? How to live in the real world. People need to be told where they rank in the real world? Yes. Why? They need prestige. Why? So they will work. There's no point in working if it's not recognized. Is the only form of recognition the right to economic dominance? Is economic power the only reason people have for working? But they want comfort, not dominance; they work for a better life, but there's only a little of that to go around. How, though, do many comfortable people react to the not-so-comfortable? And you will tell me next that, on the contrary, there is a great deal of the better life in the United States, so much that real worry about the not-so-comfortable is an exaggerated reaction to an important, but minor problem. You study, then, free from cheaters, to get at the good life, which by definition is available to everyone, almost? No, ranking is important in all societies, and besides I study because I want to learn. Cheating is therefore bad because someone is ranked unfairly, that is, higher than you perhaps, and because his cheating lowers the level of your learning? No, the cheater is hurting only himself. Then why do you expel him, or talk in scolding or disparaging tones about him? To show him that he is harming himself. You mean you are convincing him of the importance of the ranking system, respect of fear of which drove him to cheat in the first place? But we have to have a way of knowing what capabilities a person possesses, and the grading system is the only way we have. Grade-ranking, however, shows the capabilities and desires of the individual in relation to one particular system of economic toil. You punish the cheater because he threatens your place in the system. Or so it seems. Think it over.

George M. Williams
Davidson College

Cat O' Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A BUNCH OF US GOT TO TALKING over a cup of coffee the other night—the talk went from sex and dance weekends to metaphysics and statues back to alcohol and honor courts. About the only point we held in common was that it was good to see some more controversy and discussion going on the campus again. What’s below is some of our comments as:

* * *

WONDER WHY IT IS that girls from Northern schools (particularly from the “Seven Sisters”) make for much more interesting dates than do most of the girls from around here? It’s dangerous to generalize on a topic like this but there is really quite a difference. Northern girls (at least the ones we had known) usually have the same good looks and sophistication plus a lot more wit and much more interesting conversation. Not only do the Northern girls fill all the requirements for a good date; but these girls know who John Lindsay and Ernest Nagel are and they want to tell you what they think about Viet Nam (or any other topic). Their ethics are inseparable from their condition. Maybe it’s because these Northern girls read a lot more, take their education more seriously, or maybe it's because they’re more alive and more a part of things than are most Southern girls. Those Northern girls can find out pretty quickly whether you know what you're talking about, but it’s really great to talk with a date instead of talking over or at her about dippy little things. Southern girls are a little prettier though—maybe it’s because they use less make-up.

* * *

ONE BOY SAID that the whole mess over whether or not to show “Flaming Creatures” in the Union reminded him of the story about that sculptor who made a statue of horse manure: After all the awards and controversy and misunderstanding galore, it was still a pile of horse manure. The flick, he said, sounds much like the statue. But it is interesting to note that some of the so-called liberal element on campus are actually asking for an official censorship committee to replace C. Shaw Smith’s rather liberal (and unofficial) censorship of campus flicks. What a Pandora’s box that would open! Incidentally, we noted on the Wailing Wall that there are still some people (mostly frosh) who think that big words from little men (“...shut your petty traps...”) and sneering phrases (“...no one else agrees with him...”) pass for ideas.

* * *

THERE WAS A RUMOR that Davidson’s Honor Court is drawing up a set of proposals to amend its trial procedure and that these proposals are to be presented to the Student Council Monday night. Behind all the recent controversy over honor courts and their procedures seems to be the realization that neither justice nor love was being served very well by the present Honor Court procedures. This realization was long overdue. Here’s hoping that these new proposals are more than just a whitewashing.

* * *

SOME OF THE FRESHMEN complained that they were tired of the prep school attitudes around the campus and particularly the prep school atmosphere around their parties. Their main complaint was why couldn't they have parties off-campus and drink along with the upperclassmen instead of having to sneak down to the soccer field. The connection between alcohol, the fraternity system and Davidson’s super-cool provincialism may be a lot closer than most people think.

* * *

ONE LAST COMPLAINT: The idea that to be intellectual around here requires a beard-briefcase-and shoulder-length hair is about as absurd as the idea that students who dress neatly and play football are all stupid (therefore inferior) animals. That some pretty-boy fraternity men and unwashed independents have these font notions is bad enough, but now some of the profs are trying to outdo them in this crude arrogance. More on this later.