THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring Frolics: Revival Of Tribal Rites

It takes spring a long time to find Davidson, but once she settles down for a visit, all else is neglected to cater to the honored guest. This catering takes the most bizarre forms. On a stroll across campus, one is likely to see the pallid bodies of even the most grim pumpers prostrated before Sol. The benches at Hattie’s are once more inhabited by the afternoon sipping society, which for six months of the year is doomed to meet beneath those nightmarish murals, done probably by No-mind.

The height of the honoring is the tribal ritual known as Spring Frolics. The ceremony begins with a purification rite at The Trucker's Inn on Thursday night. Hundreds of participants stand beneath the lucid sky and tip, in reverence to the eternal can. The quaint custom of anointing the Iron Horse is the climax of the festivity. The participants then return to their brick hogans to prepare themselves for the main part of the ritual by bagging. A mortification of the flesh follows as a thousand men try to bull their way, unprepared, through Friday classes, able to begin the painful ceremony.

As the participants slip quietly beneath the western edge of the table, the ceremony for the evening is ended. All Fathers have wisdom, and think only of the weekend. As noon approaches, the drums sanctified by Brown and Rufus drift up from the afternoon. The whole tribe returns to their lodgings to dress appropriately. Striped overalls, madras bermudas, torso tee shirts, and wheat jeans are all found at the colorful ceremony. All are forced to forsake the camping grounds, for the Holy decreed that the sound of Thom the fraternities pun lind date then “who do you After supper participants Follow IN THE SWIM Saturday On The Lake manner.

Saturday finds the worshipers arising about noon (unless they are among the more hearty who go to class) and going to the eating hut (not Club, but hut). The afternoon activities include such fun things as curing a hangover by taking a bit of firewater. In their infinite wisdom, they will go outside for some fresh air. Sunday is another buffet, then a kiss goodbye and back to school.

Will bad press spoil Al Carson? Will he write a Springsy-Frolicsy column for Spring Frolics? Or, will he lash out once again at the arch-enemy, Davidson College, and defy his critics?

Alas, it seems he could find nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alendalux, were, it seems, cleft into two opposing elements. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity between the two factions. And, can you guess who was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was nothing more to criticize, and he has written an entertaining little story. He has even debased himself by opening the story with... Once upon a time there was a quaint, small village—a little vacation town nestled among the green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none concerning the Bomb. The town catered primarily to younger people, particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest and catch up on their neglected reading. The most peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was, however, not its clientele, but the fact that most of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, winter, and spring months, with June, July, and August very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit during the summer. Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though the vacationers referred to it by many other names. ThoseThey found their fearless leader. He marched straight into the thick of the crowd as if he really belonged there and cried out, “Hello, everyone. My name is Ja-zazz, and I have come to solve all of your problems. I once vacationed here myself. In fact, I was president of the majority element. Only, then, we had 85 percent. But all of that has changed now.” An investigation was immediately called concerning the issue. After the investigation was underway, he found an ally among the 75 percent—the current president of the undesirables, a fellow named von Universe. Ja-zazz and his cohorts formulated a report which prescribed alteration of the 75 percent system. At a meeting of the townsfolk, Ja-zazz asked them to consider remedying the discriminatory situation among the vacationers. An investigation had revealed the fact that the pro-75 percent report would be discussed first. The plan of Ja-zazz was something else again. Frank Crowninshield characterized him as “a man who holds the eggshells while somebody eats the omelette.”—Cerf.

Most will be appreciated by their Davidson dates, for various reasons, but mostly because they are girls. OF CHEESE-CRACKER LADIES in with the lady who sells cheese crackers. Friday night they will go to hear Dionne Warwick and Mary Wells. “Best entertainment we've had this year,” her date will say. Afterwards, they will go to the after-party. He will get slightly drunk, she will get slightly high. He will sleep through his Saturday classes. Saturday lunch will be buffet, beginning to congeal in his crusading mind.

After opening business and the presentation of the pro-report, Ja-zazz jumped to his feet. “Mr. Chairman!” “Yes, Ja-zazz, what is it?” “I’ve been reading Robert’s Rules, and it says here that I can introduce a substitute motion along the lines of our wonderful report.” After careful perusal of Robert’s Rules, the chairman answered, “It seems that you are correct, Ja-zazz.” “Well, I move that we accept my suggestions and cure all the ills around this place.” Ja-zazz’s motion was seconded, discussed, and fortunately, defeated. However, little did the townsfolk realize what was brewing inside the insulted Ja-zazz. One of the compatriots then stood up and suggested a compromise. “Let’s take the first two points of the Ja-zazz proposal and the rest of the pro-report.” “Is there discussion?” asked the chairman. There was, indeed, discussion—lengthy discussion. Nevertheless, through Ja-zazz’s manipulations and the fact that supper-time was drawing near, the motion passed—by a narrow margin. The meeting adjourned, the two opposing elements even more unhappy with each other than before. Outside, Ja-zazz’s white charger was waiting for him. Ja-zazz mounted the steed and galloped out of Alendalux, seeking other good deeds to perform. Vacationers turned their backs on Alendalux (Staff Photo by Thel).

FROLICS GREETINGS: COMPREHENSIVE... The Provinces Send Their Contingents... Supper that night will be in Charlotte, then back to Davidson for Fred Smoot and The Lettermen. “We had them last year, too,” her date will tell her. Another after-party, but by Friday afternoon she will sign. The Davidsonian will again don his robe that night and head for the chapel. The night dog, the pony, and/or the bird: music increases in intensity, tribesmen drink more, attended by all the tribesmen, and the sweet hour of prayer calls to an end the tribal saga of the celebration of spring. (Staff Photo by Thel)... OR APPREHENSIVE? As The Best Weekend Of The Year Arrives.

Davidson Revisited: Olga Slunk Goes Society. It’s funny that this particular spring day ten years ago should remain so vivid in my mind when all of the other springs since then or before, even the spring of my wedding, have become a haze in my memory. I don’t guess anything has been more impressed on me than the events of that Spring Frolics weekend in 1965, for this was the year of Olga Slunk’s debut in college society. She wasn’t a college girl. She lived in a small mountain town, the name of which escapes me, and worked there as a waitress in the one restaurant serving that area. She was nineteen years old and had quit school at the end of the fifth grade, hampered somewhat I suppose by an IQ of 50. The first thing you noticed about Olga was that she was as ugly, as grotesque, as any living thing that you could imagine. Ugliness generally runs rampant, but I find it hard to put into words, for she really had few characteristics which could classify her in any one animal order. If you looked closely you could tell that she had two legs, a torso of sorts, and, using the term loosely, a face. Her hair stayed filthy, hanging—no, sticking—out of her head in matted shafts. Her face was a twisted, puffed, disarming array of bone and fat surrounding two widely-spaced eyes; a bulbous nose from which a steady flow of mucous emerged; a badly healed hairlip for a mouth, which enclosed an easily distinguishable cleft palate; and last of all a wart, as large as I’ve ever seen, nearly covering the pitted puff of scar tissue which passed for her left cheek. The rest of her was just an amorphous blob, huge breasts amounting to a mountain of flab which rushed out in unusual little uneven mounds, giving her the general appearance of a sack of flashlights. There the fat stopped, for her legs were like the proverbial toothpicks, extending in almost a straight line down to the most ghastly feet that have ever carried a person anywhere. Finally, she had for arms shriveled stumps which dangled loosely from her humped back. She drooled, belched, and grunted through her toothless gums, spilling forth sounds no self-respecting hog would claim and sending forth a rank aroma surpassed only by her penetrating body odor.

I'll never forget that moment when she first entered the auditorium in Chambers for the Friday night concert. As she walked down the aisle to claim her first row seat, the whole room broke into bedlam. Stomachs reeled; boys cried out in horror and disbelief; girls either fainted or rushed out in shock. No one could comprehend that anything of such ugliness could invade such a precious time as a Davidson weekend. Most girls were so insulted and disillusioned that they started packing immediately, anxious to remove themselves from such a polluted atmosphere. Well, anyway, by Saturday morning the weekend was over, the Saturday night concert cancelled and the campus virtually vacated, with only the skeletons of broken dreams remaining behind. The unforgivable had been done: the perfect “pig” had been brought deliberately, shattering all social and aesthetic traditions among the Davidson elite. When I took Olga back that night I kissed her gently and apologized for what had happened. She looked at me rather wistfully with tears in her eyes, her cigar hanging wetly from her lips, and without a sound vomited all over me. I guess that was her little way of saying thank you to me and to the boys back at school.

The reader is expecting a moral from this, I suppose, so I won’t disappoint him: Beauty without the ugly is a meaningless thing, but with the Olga is indeed non-existent. The warring elements in the townspeople continued among the 75 percent, but with tremendous animosity. Ja-zazz had brought discord and destroyed harmony, but he had eliminated that 75 percent. Here I suppose a description would be appropriate.