SURPRISING ‘CATS TO MEET CITADEL (See Page Four) HOMECOMING PLANS ANNOUNCED (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
VOL. LV

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1965

NUMBER THREE

Theologian Will Speak Next Week
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Dietrich Ritschl, Otts Lecturer for 1965-66, will speak on campus four times next week on “The Vicarious Work of
the Church, the Structure of Political Ethics.” Dr. Ritschl is professor of Systematic Theology and History of Doctrine at Pittsburgh
Theological Seminary in Pittsburgh, Pa. A native of Switzerland, Dr. Ritschl studied mathematics and physics at the Universities of Tubingen
and Basel and theology and philosophy at the Universities of Bern and Basel. He received his PhD from the University
of Edinburgh. In 1950-52 he was assistant minister in Zyfen, Baselland, Switzerland; in 1952-58, minister of German Speaking Congregation in
Scotland; and in 1958-63, Professor of History of Dogma and New Testament at Austin Presbyterian Seminary in Austin, Texas. Dr.
Ritschl has been a special lecturer and preacher at Budapest and Debrecen, in Czechoslovakia, Russia, Mexico, and East Germany. He
is the author of several books, including A Theology of Proclamation.

“Dr. Ritschl is a very dynamic person,” said Dr. L. B. Schenck, professor of Bible and chairman of the Otts
Lecture Committee. “He has a very vital approach to things and a flexible way of thinking. He is one of
the outstanding young theologians of Europe, and I hope the boys will give him a good hearing.”

The Otts Lectures began in 1893 when the Rev. J. M. P. Otts, LLD, established a fund for the purpose
of securing distinguished lecturers to speak on various aspects of the Christian faith. Dr. Otts himself delivered the first series
of lectures. In recent years, the student body has heard such men as Dr. John A. Mackay, Dr. Elton Trueblood,
Dr. George A. Buttrick, Dr. Nels Ferre, and Dr. Hugh Anderson.

Dr. Ritschl's lecture schedule is as follows:
Lecture I: “Analysis and Lamentation.” Sunday, 7:30 p.m., Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
Lecture II: “The Criterion of Ethics.” Monday, 7:30 p.m., Morrison Room, College Union.
Lecture III: “The Dimensions of the Present: Past and Future.” Tuesday, 10:20 a.m., Chambers Auditorium.
Lecture IV: “The Priestly Task of the Church.” Tuesday, 7:30 p.m., Morrison Room, College Union.

Counselors Receive Increase In Salary

The 22 freshman hall counselors received a $20-per-semester increase in remuneration from the college this week. The hall counselors, who
had previously received one-half of their room rent as payment for their position, were awarded the increase in payment after
presenting a petition to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. two weeks ago. The petition was presented to Dean
Burts on Sept. 16. The hall counselors contended that greater responsibilities due to the change in social structure on campus
had increased their duties this year. With delayed rush this year the hall counselors have taken over many of the
responsibilities which previously were handled by fraternities or by fraternity members. The counselors—14 juniors and 8 seniors—cited orientation, freshman intramural
athletics, social life, and scholarship as the main areas in which their influence and responsibility is greatly increased. They also
pointed to the situations at other schools, in which the salaries are generally higher than at Davidson. The hall counselors
have indicated that they will present their evaluations and recommendations to Dean Burts at the beginning of the election of
hall counselors and the planning of the program for the next year.

In his letter to the counselors, Dean Burts confirmed the feeling that they are “contributing in a unique and effective
way to the lives of the freshmen students.” He also acknowledged the campus contribution of the hall counselors.

Dirty Rush Charge Prompts Alteration

Freshman contact with fraternity men in any dorm on campus was prohibited by the Interfraternity Council as part of several
changes in the rush regulations approved Monday night. IFC President Jim Terry explained that the new rule restricts fraternity men
from entering freshmen dorms at any time through Jan. 3 and prohibits freshmen from entering upper-class dorms during the same
period. When Terry announced Wednesday in freshman chapel the adoption of the new rule, many questions and heated opinions immediately
arose. Johnny Jeter, chairman of the IFC Rush Committee, explained that such a provision would help eliminate “dirty rush.” However,
most freshmen still asked “Why?”. Craig Wilson pointed out, “Since freshmen are cut off from meeting fraternity men, most of
us are more vulnerable to the Independent point of view.” Dave Powell, freshman advisor, told the assembly that all complaints
or proposals should be orderly processed through the Freshman Council.

“DIRTY RUSH”

This controversial ruling—much more restrictive than the earlier “7:30 p.m. provision”—was partially prompted after charges of “dirty rush” were brought
against one fraternity. But because of insufficient evidence and the lack of clarity in the old provisions, the penalty was
commuted to an “official IFC warning.” Immediately following this, the IFC members began to revise the old rules in order
“to prevent loopholes and to facilitate their enforcement.”

HOUSING FOR HOMECOMING

Next the related problem of dormitory housing during Homecoming was decided. All freshmen in Cannon will move into East; all
residents of Belk and Richardson may move into Cannon, Duke, or Little. The other major innovation is that all freshmen
who wish to participate in rush “will be required to visit all 12 fraternities.” Tom Brown explained the need for
such a plan: “Fraternities need to know the time and relative number of guests for those early open houses.” Terry
designated Oct. 30 and Nov. 6 as the two dates for the “regulated open houses.” Details will be worked out
by the IFC Rush Committee. The IFC unanimously adopted a $2 rush fee for each rushee. Treasurer Brown commented, “This
money helps defray the cost of printing name tags, as well as the Greek Week banquet.” This year it will
also finance a special rush pamphlet. It was also decided that a stenographer prepare a summary sheet on each freshman’s
high school activities; each house will receive a copy for reference purposes.

IFC BUDGET

Other major business included a discussion on the levying of dues. The new budget calls for $3 per man for
first semester, to be paid by Oct. 15. Second semester dues will be determined in January, but they are not
to exceed $1.00. The key factor to a balanced IFC budget is $3 second semester due to be paid by
all freshman pledges. Brown said, “This budget depends on getting 200 pledges. Since there will be a greater choice of
whether to be a fraternity man or Independent than ever before, a lot of people don’t think we'll have that
many pledges.” This year’s budget has allocated funds for attending the National Interfraternity Council meeting and for sponsoring a fraternity
workshop at Davidson. (The latter is still just a “possibility.”)

NEW COMMITTEE

Terry appointed the following IFC committees: Johnny Jeter, Johnny Reynolds, Stan Brown, Dave Westfall, Dave Perrin, rush; Mike Booe, Cal
Calhoun, Ed McFarland, Bill Kendrick, planning; Al Carson, Perrin, publicity; Tom Brown, finance; Reynolds, Calhoun, Carson, constitution. Terry also announced
that any requests from upperclassmen for permission to ride with freshmen, or vice versa, should be submitted to Stan Brown
and this committee for approval.

CHANGES NOTED

By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Harry S. Hill, cafeteria manager, pointed this week to a marked decrease in complaints as an indication of improvements in
quality and service of food at the College Union. “Complaints,” he remarked, “have decreased considerably since last Thursday.” Hill said
he has remedied threats to sanitary conditions, increased the variety of food, tried to improve efficiency in serving lines, and
made other changes in response to many complaints from students during the first weeks of school.

EXTERMINATOR

He said that an exterminator came on Sept. 22 to relieve the problem of excessive numbers of flies in the
dining and kitchen areas of the cafeteria. “He (the exterminator) comes periodically for other kinds of pests,” Hill explained. “If
the weather stays cool, we probably won't have any more problems with flies.” He added that the cafeteria now has
sufficient equipment to deal with the problem if it arises again. In addition, Hill said that he has tried to
remedy the problem of dirty silverware, about which there have been several complaints.

EXTRA WASHING

“We have started a new way of washing it,” he noted, “by pre-soaking it before we send it through the
machines. This makes it easier to wash. We've also purchased more equipment and supplies which should help the problem considerably.”
Hill told a group of sophomores last week that there would be two new meat dishes at every meal. He
told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he had, in addition, started a newCycle of menus on Monday. Delays in serving lines, Hill
explained, have been caused by a shortage of silverware and glasses. “We have ordered more glasses, and we already have
more silverware," he commented, adding that unfortunately the racks for trays which he had ordered have not yet come in.

SOPHOMORES RETURN

The group of sophomores who met with Hill and C. Shaw Smith last week inspected the kitchen last Thursday at
Hill's invitation. They said they saw some improvements. They had requested a suggestion box, which has been installed. They noted,
however, that no bulletin board, on which Hill was to post menus, had been installed. The suggestion box will be
permanent, Hill said. He told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he had received quite a few good suggestions. “We tried to do
something,” he commented, “about most all of them, but there have been fewer cards in the suggestion box during the
last few days.” He added that neither the Student Council nor Robert Currie, IFC sans Dorm Contact Of Frosh, Fraternity
Men

DAVIDSON JUNIORS OFF TO EUROPE

On board the M/S Aurelia on their way to France and Germany are 26 Davidson juniors and their advisors, who
arrived in Europe Aug. 28. Standing (l. to r.) are Dr. J. S. Winkler, a passenger from California, Frank Goldsmith,
Tom Frist, Herb Jackson, Ned Kelly, Tucker Laxton, Bill Jones, Clark Laster, Cotton Alston, Buford Norman, Jim May, Hal Dial,
Harry Carr, George Miller, Jon Ward, Dick Barney and Sam Smith. Seated are Bill Rhea, Dr. W. E. Meeks, Bill
Doggett, Bruce Gregory, Edwin Pate and Karl Beck. Not pictured are Ricky Pfitzner, Don Leslie and Will Norman.

IBM Dating Sweeps Country

By AL VARNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

You should have known someone at Harvard thought it up. Computerized sex for the entire country! What's behind it all
and how is it possible? Well, five Harvard students organized the set-up and called it “Operation Match.” They've entitled themselves,
by the way, Compatibility Research, Inc. and have undertaken to match boys and girls from 30 different sections of the
US (and England) with their perfect dates in their own region. Of course, the root of all evil is the
base of this enterprise since it takes three dollars to participate.

The program is possible through the use of a questionnaire and answer sheet (a sort of College Board test on
sex) which the Davidson Betas are distributing in this part of North Carolina. But the entire Tarheel State composes one
region, so a Davidsonian who sends in his form might get names from anywhere in the state.

UP TO 14 DATES

A participant, boy or girl, receives at least five names of people with whom he is compatible. He can get
more (up to 14) if he asks for them, but anyone who is seriously thinking of dating 14 girls from
all over NC probably doesn’t need a computer’s help. The project is being advertised at 33 colleges in NC, plus
Winthrop and Converse, and is designed to have an equal number of girl and boy participants. This state's project is
under the direction of three boys at Chapel Hill who, in turn, are responsible to the headquarters at Boston. The
local work is being done by different fraternities at five men's schools across the state.

Most of the three dollars goes to Boston, but the Betas get 25 cents for every form sent in from
this area. The bulk of the overhead is in renting the computer which costs approximately $1000 an hour.

STARTED IN BOSTON

The publicity symbols for “Operation Match” are the little signs meaning male and female that you see on “Ben Casey”
every week. These are connected by a heart and appear around Davidson on posters and buttons and in newspapers. They
seem to be “the thing” these days now that Playboy magazine uses them for its jokes.

“Operation Match” was first tried last fall in the Boston area where 9,000 people took part. Last spring it was
done again in the same area and 16,000 responded. Among these were 8,200 repeats. Both of these figures represent about
40 percent of the people contacted.

The questionnaire was made up by sociologists and, according to the ads, “PhD's of all kinds.” It was revised after
each of the two trials. Some of the questions on it concern religion, personality, appearance, family income and interest in
activities. One question asks, “Do you consider yourself sexually experienced?” and offers five answers ranging between yes and no. A
student was heard to comment, “That's kind of stupid. Either you have or you haven’t.” Perhaps he’s right.

NOT LIKE ‘CUPID’

Dave Meachan, head of the project at Davidson, emphasizes that it is nothing like the “Cupid Computer” which arranged dates
for the freshman mixers. “It has more questions which are better prepared and which allow you to place emphasis on
any area you like. And it asks you not only about yourself but also about your ideal date, as Cupid’s
questionnaire didn't.”

The whole idea is going over big here, as shown by the fact that 77 Davidson men sent in their
forms within one day after the ads began. Another sign that it is catching on is that several rhymes have
been thought up, most of them employing “with Operation Match” as their last phrase.

Student Council Views Parking Fines, Wildcat

The Student Council held one of its shorter meetings Monday night in which Ed Dwelle was voted by acclamation to
fill the vacancy left by B. A. Aiken on the Freshman Court. Aiken was obliged to drop out of school
this year, and Dwelle was a unanimous choice to take the empty seat.

Paul Marion explained the vending machine situation to the Council members and announced that machines would be installed in Cannon
and Watts dormitories and that there may be more machines installed in the basement of the Student Union. Also, when
the laundry is remodeled, there will be a row of vending machines available for student use.

The parking situation on campus was brought to light again as Chuck Matthews informed the Council of the graduated fine
system. Bill Council, slightly perturbed over the actions of the campus cops added, “Three pages of parking regulations! That's just
too much.” Investigation of the parking problem is one of the items on the overall Student Council platform for this
school year.

Dave Powell reported on the first meeting of the Freshmen Council in which Craig Wilson was elected secretary. In addition
to this position, five freshmen were elected to a Freshman Social Committee which will work with the Student Union Social
Committee in planning activities. The five freshmen are John Passmore, K. D. Weeks, John Roe, Tom O’Brien and Bobby Vagt.
After a while, three of the five will be selected to serve on the Campus Social Committee.

Ben Cannon asked about the absence of a wildcat from the cage and Matthews offered an explanation, saying that the
problems of feeding, care, and proper social relations for the animal were too much for untrained students to handle. He
added that the wildcat was unhappy and irritable while here, so Jessee Sims, the animal's keeper, sent it to the
Atlanta Zoo at the end of the 1963-64 school year.

Bob Bryan and John Thomas were absent from the meeting.

Publications Board Elects Chairman

The Publications Board elected THE DAVIDSONIAN Editor-in-Chief John Todd as chairman and Business Manager Irvine Welling as secretary at its
first meeting of the year Wednesday.

The board is composed of the editors and business managers of the four campus publications — THE DAVIDSONIAN, Quips and
Cranks, The Miscellany, and the Wildcat Handbook — in addition to the business manager of the college and a faculty
representative. Meeting once each month, the board supervises the finances of the student publications.

In addition, it approves nominations each year for the election of new editors and must approve each editor's choice of
a business manager.
