FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

NOTHING GLAMOROUS

Cross country is not a glamorous sport by the farthest stretch of the imagination. Thousands of fans will holler themselves hoarse as 22 well-padded young gentlemen try to pound each other into the turf of a football field. Hundreds of fans will turn out to shout insults at lousy referees as 22 bruised-shinned soccermen try to break each other’s legs. Even tens of fans will turn out to heap ridicule, scorn, and enmity upon a rival fraternity’s flicker-ball team. But the only fellow to watch a cross country meet is the coach, or someone who accidentally is watching something else when some scantily-clad “harrier,” as these cross countriers are called, comes running by in his black boxer drawers.

“Cross country is not a very popular sport, you know,” track coach Heath Whittle confessed as he sat on a bench in the cross country dressing room late Wednesday evening. “All you can see is the start and the finish.” But between the start and finish, the part you never see, the race is run — and won. Between the start and finish, four miles of misery spread out a tightly packed mass of a dozen or more runners into a long line of ones and twos. What happens between the gun and the tape is impossible to write. Each runner faces a thousand challenges that eventually break the mass down to individuals — How fast to start? To take the man in front of you now, or later when he’s tired? To run fast up a hill, or fast down a hill? Whether to throw an elbow back or to run faster? When to slow down on a turn? How best to run in mud? How best to get over gravel? or sand? or pavement?

Few “sports” fans really appreciate sport — pure sport — and if nothing else cross country is pure sport. For there are no cheers and laurels for the victor, only a throbbing side, an aching chest, burning eyes filled with sweat, and limp legs that feel stretched, twisted, and pulled all the wrong way at the same time. Only a runner can appreciate fully the pain it takes to run. Even a winner must realize he will never be fully repaid in glory for the pains he bled in solitude. But a loser; then you have absolutely no glory to show for the work and no one really remotely cares how much you sweated or bled or hurt... because you lost.

“I think William and Mary will win the conference meet at West Virginia this Monday,” Whittle unhesitatingly rattled off. “I think Furman will be next.” “I think West Virginia will be next.” “I think VMI will be next.” “I think East Carolina will be next.” “And I think that there will be a fight for last place between Richmond, The Citadel, and Davidson. At least I hope we can beat them.”

So our cross country team knows how it is to lose this year. Robert Dean’s bad knees, Monroe Gilmour's weak ankles and the loss of our top five runners from last year all hurt. Next year will be better, it can’t be worse. Randy Phillips and Mike Moats will lead ten or so freshmen to the varsity and then lead the varsity to several wins. But still there will be no cheers. For in cross country even a winner is unnoticed. 

Why do cross country men still run and sweat and hurt only to have themselves unnoticed? Because they like it.

CROSS COUNTRY CAPTAIN

Little Paces Weak Harriers

By K. D. WEEKS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Andy Little, Davidson cross country team’s senior standout, has consistently set the pace for not only his team but usually the entire conference field as well. Of seven meets this season, Little has finished ahead of the pack in two of them, and one of those victories came in a tri-meet involving ECC, VMI and Davidson. He finished second in two more meets, losing the number one spot by only two seconds.

But Little will not be satisfied with any of this success, he claims after each meet, “I should have done better.” He believes he can improve and each meet he proves it. Every finishing time since the first meet has been progressively lower and lower. Little attributes this improvement to the fact that he works a little more each time and concentrates on doing better. He does not take this minor sport lightly, he works to keep in shape and gives his best effort.

As a hall counselor, here early for Orientation this year, Little was seen in the afternoon running the two-mile course and even sometimes at night jogging around the stadium track again and again. One freshman claims that he and his date saw Little running late one night.Little running around the football field after midnight one Saturday night. Another example of his eagerness to work and improve is in a statement that Little made after being asked about his longest workout. "Last Saturday after the game, I ran a good way up the road toward Concord then back down the road almost into Cornelius, just for enjoyment. Other times I don't enjoy working out so much, but this time I did." This lengthy jog was "just to loosen up" as he put it. The greatest effort and finest accomplishment Little has made this year came in the VMI, ECC, Davidson tri-meet when he finished in near Davidson record-time for the course, missing the mark held by former runner Sterling Martin by only five seconds. Commenting on the race itself Little said, "Four miles is a long way, and like anyone would, I get 'tard'. I run about two miles and think 'I’ve only been half way', then when I have only one half mile to go and find I have plenty left I wish I had poured it on in the middle of the race." The season comes to a close with the Conference meet Monday, and Little is priming for it. "I'm really pointing toward that race; but the course will be two tenths of a mile longer and a lot flatter than I like," he says. Of Little’s success, Coach Whittle remarked, "We are well pleased with Andy's running this year, and we are expecting him to do well in the Conference meet." Whittle, on the Southern Conference Board, went on to say that Little has a good chance to make the eight-man All-Conference team if he does well in the meet Monday.

Davidsonian Unofficial Standings
Kappa Sigs 12-0; Betas 8-1
Delts 8-2; SX’s 7-2
ATO’s 8-3; SAE’s 6-5; PIKA’s 5-6
Fijis 3-6; SPE’s 4-8
KA’s 2-8; SN’s 2-9
Indies 2-9; Pi Kapps 1-10

Thinclads Travel To SC Tourney
The Davidson cross country team leaves Saturday for Morgantown, West Virginia, where the Southern Conference cross country meet is to be held Monday. "William and Mary is favored to finish first, Furman should finish second, and West Virginia third," said Coach Heath Whittle. "I expect Andy Little to do well in this meet." Last Monday the North Carolina state cross country meet was held. The varsity placed sixth out of nine teams in the meet. Duke was first, UNC second, and Wake Forest third. Little placed eighth and won a medal over the four-mile course. The Freshmen came in seventh out of a nine-team field. Randel Phillips finished fourteenth in the race. UNC placed first, Duke was second, and Wake Forest third. Concerning the state meet, Coach Whittle commented, "We ran about as well as we have all season — I was well pleased with them." Whittle also commented on next season. "The freshman season is over and next year we should have a much better team — deeper and much stronger with the up-coming Freshmen and Sophomores."

This week saw the Kappa Sigs clinch another of their many IMAC flickerball seasons, but all was not as simple as it seemed. The made them sweat until the final whistle in their losing effort, 26-19. The Kappa Sigs, operating without the services of league standings as defeated the Phi Delts 26-13. The ATO’s also climbed over the Pi Kapps, 41-13 with rookie Rick Moore looking good in Tau win. Sigs Sweep Slate; losing a game last week to the Machis which everyone, especially Sonny Graves and Company, agreed that the Pika’s should have won. Down 9-0 the Pika’s came back with two drives to hit paydirt. The KA's fought back to the nine-yard line with ten seconds left in the game, but Bob O'Kelly picked off a stray KA pass to put down the rally. On Monday the SAE’s blanked the Nu’s 37-0 with the Sigma Nus quick to explain that they had played with only five men. Failure to field a full team the Independents to forfeit the game. The Sigma Nus copped their second win of the season 20-15. The Snus seemed to have stymied the KA offense as they were leading 15-0 until the KA’s scored with less than fifteen seconds left in the first half. In the second period Tommy Hunter intercepted a Sigma Nu pass and raced all the way to the end zone to narrow the gap to two and time ran out. With the top two positions almost clinched, the big games on next week will be a battle for third place between the Sigma Chi's and the Phi Delts. With time running out fast, the KA's got possession of the ball, and Rick Harrell hit Ernie Larkin with a TD pass to put the KA’s in the lead. The Sigma Nus last attempt to regain the lead was halted when their desperation bomb was intercepted.

Tired of The Same Old Places? Looking For Somewhere New and Different? Then Try The 611-A PROVIDENCE ROAD CHARLOTTE, N. C. (Just Behind Manor Theater) Most Plush Lounge In Charlotte Very Near Queens College Telephone 330-8096 For Reservations

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston, Mass, 02115
Please enter my subscription to the Monitor for the period checked below. I enclose $...... (U.S. Funds)
1 YEAR $24 [ ] 6 months $12 [ ] 3 months $6

So rent them from National because you like the colors of their cars. For a new ‘66 Ford or other fine car...and S&H Green Stamps at no extra cost, call NATIONAL - RENTAL
Douglas Airport
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 392-6376

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS
Clothing For The Pace-Setting Traditionalist — Superb Fit — Correct Color — Moderate Price
Our 53rd Year
MOORESVILLE, N. C.