‘GNOME’ LETTER DRAWS HEAVY FIRE (See Page Two) (Staff Photo by Carroll)

GETTING ACQUAINTED
New Chaplain Checks THE DAVIDSONIAN For News
Scott Woodmansee Assumes Chaplaincy
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

“I want to be open,” said the new Davidson College chaplain, the Rev. Scott Woodmansee. “I come as an ordained minister, but the Christian faith allows a lot of freedom.” Woodmansee continued, “I would like to be constantly in dialogue with feelings of indifference and hostility.”

A Davidson graduate in the Class of ‘59, Woodmansee comes to Davidson from a Presbyterian church in Collierville, Tenn., a suburb of Memphis. Although he was scheduled to arrive a month ago, he was delayed by the birth of his second son.

Asked about his plans, the new chaplain would not venture any guess as to what he'd want to initiate. However, he said he thought that the possibilities for small group discussion and Christian activity in the community were “very exciting.” Noting that Will Terry, the past chaplain, is now pastor of the college church, Woodmansee said that there would in effect be two chaplains. Duties of the chaplain will include direction of the YMCA, coordination of college religious activities, and the responsibility for chapel, in addition to personal counseling.

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1966

Violations of the college's drinking rule may result in penalties being assessed against fraternities as a whole, in addition to being levied against the individuals themselves. Nevertheless, the committee said, a fraternity has the responsibility to encourage an atmosphere in which misconduct will not occur.

Though the group’s statement makes no specific reference to the drinking question, it has its most significant applications there and was precipitated by the question. The question of corporate responsibility arose last spring when a single fraternity was fined for several of its members being discovered drinking in the house. But the case set no precedent because the particular individuals involved were not identified. The committee ruling gave no set interpretation, but rather allowed that fraternities could be held responsible. At the same time, the committee said, in a statement, “there are some violations of regulations where an individual is clearly acting without the knowledge or support of the fraternity and the responsibility rests solely on the individual.”

Scholarship students keeping autos on campus after Thanksgiving will be subject to a violation of the honor system, Court Chairman Alva Whitehead said in chapel Tuesday.

Fraternities Are Liable For Drinking In Houses

“Seasons To Sing Hits”
“Let's Hang On.” “The Four Seasons” will perform in concert Saturday from 8 to 10 p.m. in Love Auditorium. C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union, said that “we have every reason to believe that this will be a bang-up affair.” Saturday the varsity football game with Wittenburg at 2 p.m. will be followed by a varsity-freshman basketball scrimmage in Johnston Gymnasium at seven. On concert weekends, “Life Is But a Dream.” “The Four Seasons” are now managed by Fred Weintraub, owner and manager of The Bitter End in New York and a personal friend of Smith. Someone “Betrayed” you when he said that “Silence Is Golden” because Smith added that “we have never had an act from the Weintraub office that was not outstanding in its performance and in the rapport it established with our students.” The concert will be opened only to Davidson students and their dates. “The Four Seasons” will perform in the auditorium; because of the limited number of seats, this concert cannot be opened to the public. “If you find an extra seat ‘Save it for Me’.” “Do You Want to Dance?” The Freshman Council is sponsoring a combo party from 10 until two after the concert. “T. Fletcher and the Boss Sounds” from Atlanta, Ga., will play; Sid Cottingham, chairman of the Freshman Social Committee, said that “they are a swinging band from the Big City.”

Weihe And Mooty Vie For Handbook Position

Juniors Bruce Weihe and Mike Mooty will be competing for editorship of the Wildcat Handbook as the student body votes Tuesday. A third junior, Bill Schmickley, had originally filed for the position, but he withdrew this week because of the possibility he may participate in the Washington Semester during the spring semester. Mooty's candidacy was approved this week at a meeting of the Publications Board. Both Mooty and Weihe have served on the staff of the handbook as section editors. Mooty had charge of the section on Religious Life and the Military, while Weihe directed the section on Student Government in this year’s edition of the book. Polls will be open during the regular hours Tuesday, according to Tom Earnhardt, who is directing the election for the Student Council. Students may vote at the poll at the lobby of Chambers until 2 p.m., Earnhardt said. “We expect to have the results tallied by the time drill is over,” he said. Freshmen will not be allowed to vote in Tuesday's election, since they are not allowed to vote until second semester.

The court will be enforcing a rule of the Scholarship Committee. The Student Council Monday night decided to explore the possibility of altering the restriction on scholarship holders to have automobiles on campus. Stating that “Realistically, cars are no longer considered a luxury here at Davidson,” Mike Powell, chairman of the committee investigating the problem, voiced the council's disapproval of the car restrictions. The present position of the administration is that if a student has financial need, then he could not afford to keep an automobile. H. Edmunds White, admissions director, stated that “the cost of the automobile is not the greatest burden, while the insurance and upkeep greatly enter into the problem.” The council felt that this is a problem not generally recognized by the student body. By means of an Open End some time in the future, possibly with White debating either a professor or a student, the problem could be brought into the open. At present the admissions department makes no distinction between the make or model of the cars. However, White did note that Dana scholars showing good cause for having a car, such as a job, could receive a nominal $100 Dana stipend and keep the car. Concerning the “make or model” area, White said that the administration did not wish to get into the used car business and therefore, in the eyes of the administration, a 1956 Compact would be just as great an expense as a 1966 Sports car. Council President Chuck Matthews said that the council would be willing to handle the judging of cars.“but it would be much better to have the faculty or administration handle it, to eliminate possible charges of favoritism." The council decision followed a Monday chapel announcement by Alva Whitehead, Honor Court chairman, who stated that after Thanksgiving it would be an honor offense for scholarship students to have cars on campus. In other council business, Tom Earnhardt announced that the game room would be open on Sundays on a trial basis for the next few weeks. Also, Bill Watson noted that the campus spot box will soon be available, as 40 professors agreed to cooperate with the project. Finally, the council agreed to handle the faculty visitation details. Johnny Gresham moved to accept a proposal whereby faculty members would "sign up" for certain visitation nights, with the schedule to be published in THE DAVIDSONIAN. The motion passed unanimously.

The committee based its demand for fraternity liability on the corporate authority granted the organizations by the college. In judging specific cases, the committee will assess steps taken by the fraternity to encourage such an atmosphere. The committee has made proposals to the scholarship committee designed so that financial aid students who have cars now could take them home Thanksgiving and clear themselves of any honor violation. With regard to this problem, “Let me emphasize,” said Whitehead, “the point that the proposal to the scholarship committee is just that a proposal, in the weakest sense of the word. We have no reason to believe they will accept them for anything other than suggestions.” Whitehead said that, if the court proposal is not accepted, financial aid applicants are on their honor to tell the truth on all questions including those about car ownership. He said that anyone who has a car on campus after Thanksgiving and tries to deceive the committee can be charged with an honor violation.

According to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, when a student applies for aid, he is asked first if he had a car on campus during the past year and then if he expects to keep one on campus during the coming year. Whitehead announced that because of “lack of clarification of the policy of the Honor Court, the court has made proposals to the scholarship committee designed so that financial aid students who have cars now could take them home Thanksgiving and clear themselves of any honor violation.”

Two students will be invited to sit on the faculty’s Blue Sky Committee as “non-voting participating members,” Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston stated in a faculty memorandum released Nov. 16. The committee, which is studying curriculum revision, has asked the Student Council to nominate six students, from whom the committee will choose two members.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is calling off its drive to raise funds for the Student Curriculum Revision Committee. Drive Chairman Bob Travers announced Friday. Travers stated that since the Faculty Revision Committee has decided to include two student members, the student committee may dissolve, and in any event will not need the funds which would have been raised. The drive, which began Monday, was to raise enough money for the Student Committee to prepare a report on curriculum revision to parallel the faculty's report. The money would have been used by the committee to travel to other colleges and universities in order to examine other curricula and to bring speakers familiar with the area of curriculum reform to the campus. All money which has been collected already will be returned by the canvassers. “Since the drive was still in progress when we decided to call it off,” Travers reported, “we don't know what percentage of the student body participated. However, our canvassers reported a great deal of interest on the part of students.” Two canvassers reported 100 percent favorable response from the students they had contacted. “We appreciate the interest of the students who contributed,” Travers added, “but since there will be two student members of the ‘Blue Sky’ Committee the purpose of the drive which was to enable the student point of view on curriculum revision to be formalized in a report has been accomplished.”

The Blue Sky Committee has also invited the Student Council to nominate students to serve on subcommittees. A list of students will be submitted by the Student Council and the committee will appoint them to various subcommittees. Organization of subcommittees was also announced in the memorandum. The memorandum also stated that the two students will meet with the committee “except when the committee may choose to sit in executive session.” A number of faculty members and students will be appointed to various subcommittees. The Blue Sky Committee’s Subcommittee on Bibliography is headed by Dr. Earl MacCormac and Dr. Frontis Johnston. MacCormac and Johnston will also direct the Subcommittee on Individual Study and Special Programs. Locke White will chair the Subcommittee on Curriculum Structure. The Subcommittee on Credits, Evaluation and Graduate School Admission includes Dr. Jim Martin and Dr. Jay Ostwalt. Dr. Frank Bliss and Dr. Joe Embry will head the Subcommittee on Special Curriculum Innovations. The Subcommittee on Non-Western Studies is chaired by Dr. Max Polley and Dr. Charles Ratliff. Ostwalt is on the Subcommittee on Special Teaching Devices. Embry and Johnston will direct the Subcommittee on Curriculum Scope: Requirements, Core Programs, Departments, Divisions, etc. The Subcommittee on Importance of Changes in the Secondary School Curriculum will be under Bliss and Ostwalt. No members have been appointed yet for the Subcommittee on Student Life. The Subcommittee on the Present Curriculum, Its Strengths and Weaknesses, is directed by Polley and Ratliff.

Members of the Student Curriculum Committee include B. A. Aiken, Ken Autrey, Steve Bales, Karl Beck, Marvin Bethune, Ken Childs, Mac Davis, Bob Dugger, Ed Dwelle, Tom Earnhardt, Dave Hardeman, Steve Humphrey, Herb Jackson, Bobby Lane, Chuck Matthews, Chuck Mendenhall, Mike Powell and Julian Prosser.

Election of officers and the appointment of new members will be major points on the agenda for the Davidson College Board of Visitors at its meetings today and tomorrow. Tonight there will be a dinner for the board before the dedication of Love Auditorium and a reception following the ceremonies. The Board will meet with students and faculty members and will attend various classes tomorrow.

Members of the Board of Visitors represent a variety of interests and backgrounds in business and professional fields. The group functions as an advisory council to the college and seeks to increase interest in Davidson throughout the country.