PAGE SIX

Admission Applicants: Decline From Last Year

By KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Applications for admission to next year’s Freshman Class totaled 1,053 as of Feb. 1, according to Director of Admissions H.
Edmunds White. This total is 147 fewer than the number of high school seniors who had applied at this time
last year.

White stated that college officials are not concerned about the declining number of applications. “We're concerned with quality, not quantity,”
he remarked, “and this year we have received quite a few excellent applications. We'll start to worry when the quality
of applications begins to decline.” He added that the decline is largely the result of receiving fewer “weak” applications, a
trend which he attributes in some degree to improved high school guidance counseling.

“High school counseling is improving all the time,” he noted, “and counselors are probably beginning to recommend that less-qualified boys
not apply to Davidson.”

The deadline for applications is February 15, and all entrance material (test scores, transcripts, etc.) must be received by the
college by March 1. All accepted and rejected applicants will be notified on April 14. In past years, a large
percentage of those accepted were notified around the middle of February, but this year college officials decided to discontinue this
practice.

“Before this year we were operating in the dark,” said White. “All of the applications that we receive should be
compared with each other. This new system allows us to do a more careful and fair job and gives us
a better chance to balance the class.”

White commented that this system occasionally puts pressure on an applicant who is accepted by another college and is required
to commit himself before he hears from Davidson. In such a case, White said, the student should contact Davidson, and
officials will tell him if they possibly can whether or not he will be accepted.

White noted that it is difficult for the college to decide just how many applicants to accept in order to
get a class of a particular size. “We usually figure that 65 to 69 per cent of the boys that
we accept will come here,” he said. “This compares favorably with Harvard, which leads all colleges in this category with
about 75 per cent.”

White urged all Davidson students to contact and to encourage to apply for admission any boy whom they think might
be interested in Davidson. He also stated that the admissions office welcomes written recommendations of any boy who has already
applied.

On NSA Affiliation

Davidson's Young Republicans will present a debate Monday night on the pros and cons of the college's affiliation with the
National Student Association. The meeting will be held at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

A YRC spokesman told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the club hoped to clarify the college's status as a NSA member. “It
seems that every couple of years in recent times someone on campus has questioned the wisdom of Davidson's affiliation with
NSA. This issue is stirring once again,” he said.

During the year 1963-64, several members of the student body undertook a private campaign to disassociate with the organization. Affiliation
was subsequently approved by a close vote in a student body referendum.

Barber Johnson Readies New Shop

By RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“We hope to be in the new building within a month when the renovations are complete,” said Ralph W. Johnson,
owner of Johnson's Barber Shop. The site of the new shop will be on the corner of Depot and Main
streets and will occupy the building which formerly housed Penland's Hardware Store.

The equipment from the present shop will be moved up to the new building, and very little new equipment will
be purchased. Johnson does not know what the plans are for the present building after he moves out. He has
been renting the present structure from Mr. J. V. Lare, and when Penland’s Hardware closed down Johnson bought it from
Mrs. S. A. Thompson and started to make the necessary modifications.

All of Johnson's staff, which includes Joseph G. McLain, James E. Raeford, William J. Colson, John L. Mathew and Gordon
K. White, will move up to the new shop. Tommy O. Knox will join the rest of the staff when
he gets out of the Army.

“I'm mighty pleased with the new location,” said Johnson, “because there's a lot more room up there and it’s more
convenient to the campus. We're going to try to make a real attractive place up there.” When asked if he
had anything to say about his competition he replied, “No, no. Goodness gracious no.”

McKelway’s Book Gets Recognition

Dr. A. J. McKelway, assistant professor of Bible, has had a recent book singled out by The London Times as
one of the outstanding religious texts of the 1960's. The book, The Systematic Theology of Paul Tillich, is one of
only 13 books recognized by the newspaper for this distinction. The book is published by the John Knox Press of
Richmond, Va.

Summer Jobs

The U. S. Post Office recently announced a nationwide competitive examination for temporary summer employment in a number of the
large post offices throughout the country. The examination will be used to select the best qualified applicants for employment as
seasonal assistants between May 1 and Sept. 30.

The written test, which takes less than one hour to complete, will be given in March in over 1,000 cities.
Applicants for the positions, which pay $2.37 an hour, will be accepted through Feb. 24.

Seasonal assistants are hired in the summer to assist the regular postal force in handling the mail. Some assignments require
operation of motor vehicles, and candidates for these will have to demonstrate their ability to drive.

The Post Office points out that seasonal assistants will be needed only in a limited number of post offices, generally
in larger ones. Persons who pass the written test will be furnished a list of the post offices in the
state of their permanent residence where appointments will be made and will be permitted to file for employment in up
to three of these.

Eligible applicants will be given ratings based on test scores, and offers of employment will be made first to those
in the highest group.

Copies of the announcement and applications may be obtained by contacting the Examiner in Charge, Board of U. S. Civil
Service Examiners, U. S. Post Office in Charlotte.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
SECOND SEMESTER 1965-66

Wednesday A.M. Fourth hour Tues., Thurs., Sat. May 25
P.M.

Thursday A.M. Sixth hour Mon., Wed., Fri. May 26
P.M. Fourth hour Mon., Wed., Fri.

Friday A.M. May 27
P.M. First hour Mon., Wed., Fri.

Saturday A.M. First hour Tues., Thurs., Sat. May 28
P.M.

Monday A.M. Fifth hour Mon., Wed., Fri. May 30
P.M. Second hour Tues., Thurs., Sat.

Tuesday A.M. May 31
P.M. Third hour Tues., Thurs., Sat.

Wednesday A.M. ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42 June 1
P.M.

Thursday A.M. Second hour Mon., Wed., Fri. June 2
P.M. Third hour Mon., Wed., Fri.

Classes for second semester close Mon., May 23
Pre-examination Study Day, Tues., May 24.

Morning examinations begin at 9:00 a.m.
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 p.m.

MRS. SCHNEIDER AND SON CONRAD MIX BATTER
(Staff Photo by Purvis)

They Turn Out 40 To 50 Cakes Per Month

Cakes

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Does the name Mrs. E. C. Schneider mean anything to you? It should. It's not a bad bet that she
made the last birthday cake you ate.

Mrs. Schneider, a fairly recent arrival in Davidson, lives notFar from campus, on Main Street, when this reporter arrived for
an interview, he was greeted and ushered in by her young son, Conrad, who turned out to be quite a
character in his own right. His mother began her business of making “Goody Boxes” for students just last year. Asked
how the cake-making enterprise came about, she explained, “We used to live in Charlotte. When I realized I had little
Conrad here to rear, we moved to Davidson because we love the village life. The idea of making cakes just
came to my mind.” She added that she wanted to do something that would allow her to work at home.
Cooking as a money-making proposition was something new, she said. “I had been an interior decorator. This cake-baking idea was
really kind of a joke with us.” Many of her recipes were given to her by friends, along with advice
on the care and feeding of hungry college students. “We’ve had a lot of fun doing it, though,” Mrs. Schneider
admitted. “The mothers are delightful. Most of them have written a personal letter instead of just returning the form letter
I sent out. I guess this is an indication of what kind of families the young men come from.”

Mrs. Schneider turns out about 40 to 50 cakes each month. Business is generally pretty steady, without a real peak
season. “I have the work scheduled so I can get it done in the course of a month,” she explained.
“There is no set day for delivery unless a parent asks for it, as with a birthday.” Her cakes and
cookies are always welcomed by students. One connoisseur of culinary delights summed his feelings very succinctly when he exclaimed, “They’re
good!” What more can one say?

Duke Endowment Gives Davidson $284,500

Davidson has been granted a special $284,500 appropriation by the Duke Endowment for use in its program during the academic
year that begins next September, according to an announcement by President D. Grier Martin. Because Davidson was designated in 1924,
along with Duke University, Johnson C. Smith University, and Furman University, by James Buchanan Duke as a direct beneficiary of
the Duke Endowment, current gift income from the Endowment, such as this special appropriation, cannot be included as matching money
in Davidson’s campaign to raise 5.5 million dollars to qualify for a $2.2 million challenge grant from the Ford Foundation.

One hundred twelve thousand dollars of the total Duke grant will be used in 1966-67 to support Davidson’s program of
increased faculty salaries and for faculty research grants; $80,000 will enable the college to purchase books and other library materials;
$75,000 is earmarked for the future development of library facilities; $10,000 will help finance the 1966-67 “Davidson Abroad” program in
France and Germany, and $7,500 will be used for further development of Davidson’s interdepartmental course in the humanities.

In announcing the appropriation, Martin stated that “this splendid grant, although not a part of our Ford Challenge Program, is
exceptionally important in encouraging our faculty and in underwriting the cost of programs to enrich the educational experience of our
students during these campaign years.” “The trustees of the Duke Endowment,” he said, “have again demonstrated by this appropriation their
understanding of specific educational areas where Davidson seriously needs operating funds in order to continue its progress as a leader
in liberal arts education.”

N.C. Students Offered Summer Internships

Twenty-five North Carolina college students will be selected to participate in the state government’s 1966 Summer Internship Program. Students will
attend an orientation program and then work for ten weeks in selected state departments while attending evening classes on the
North Carolina State campus. Students will be paid $75 a week for the program which begins June 7 and lasts
until Aug. 19.

To be eligible, students (1) must have satisfactorily completed three years of college, (2) must be residents of North Carolina,
and (3) must be currently enrolled in a college or university either within or outside the state. Students will be
selected for the program by a committee including prominent professors of political science teaching in North Carolina colleges and universities.
Applications for the Internship Program may be obtained from Dr. W. P. Minter or Mr. C. Shaw Smith. Applications must
be mailed to the Institute of Government, Chapel Hill before Feb. 15.

Officers To Take New Oath

Student Body President Bill Council will administer the new oath of office to the members of the Student Council and
the Honor Court at Tuesday’s assembly. The swearing-in ceremony, originally scheduled for the last assembly before semester exams, was postponed
due to the absence of several members. The new oath makes the Student Council and Honor Court duty-bound to enforce
the student body regulations. They had previously been honor-bound to enforce these regulations. This change, recommended by Honor Court member
John Burks, was approved in December by the Student Council.

DuPont Gives College Grant For Science

The Du Pont Company has presented a $5,000 grant to Davidson, President D. Grier Martin recently announced. This rotating grant
to Davidson is divided into two amounts, half designated for chemistry and the other half for other subjects important in
the education of scientists and engineers. Davidson is one of 78 institutions, mostly liberal arts colleges, to receive these annual
grants. This year the DuPont Company has awarded $2,200,000 in its program of aid to education. The major part of
these grants is for the strengthening of teaching of science and engineering, particularly at the undergraduate level.

Half-price to college students and faculty: the newspaper that newspaper people read...

At last count, we had more than 3,800 newspaper editors on our list of subscribers to The Christian Science Monitor.
Editors from all over the world. There is a good reason why these “pros” read the Monitor: the Monitor is
the world’s only daily international newspaper. Unlike local papers, the Monitor focuses exclusively on world news — the important news.
The Monitor selects the news it considers most significant and reports it, interprets it, analyzes it — in depth. It
takes you further into the news than any local paper can. If this is the kind of paper you would
like to be reading, we will send it to you right away at half the regular price of $24.00 a
year. Clip the coupon. Find out why newspapermen themselves read the Monitor — and why they invariably name it as
one of the five best papers in the world.

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR
1 Norway Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115

I am enclosing $___ (U.S. funds) for the period checked.
[ ] 1 year $12 [ ] 9 months $9 [ ] 6 months $6

Name___
Street___
Apt./Rm. #___
City___
State___ Zip___
[ ] College student. Year of graduation___
[ ] Faculty member

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has
the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID
card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
