PAGE TWO

OBJECTIVE IS SERVICE

Beckham Brings Zeal To New Cafeteria Job

© By ROBBIE HOOKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

If there's one word to describe Bill Beckham, it’s “enthusiasm.” The new manager of the Union cafeteria does everything with
zeal. He meanders from table to table, joking with students and soliciting their opinions. He sponsors new projects and livens
up old ones. And sometimes he even serves steak for breakfast.

Beckham talks about a “status quo of excellence” which he hopes Slater Service will attain. “Our number one objective is
service,” he says. “If we satisfy the students, the rest will come.”

Beckham's service has taken many forms during his two months at Davidson. In addition to the steaks for breakfast, he
has quickened the serving lines, rejuvenated the snack bar, and opened a restaurant on big weekends. Still other changes and
innovations, he promises, are forthcoming.

STYLE

His customers, the students, like him, and they like his style. “First of all, you get the impression he's trying,”
said Ray Stringfield. “Second, he gets results. The food is improving. There’s more novelty and it just seems like a
more efficient system.”

“I've noticed that there's more variety,” said Berkley Latimer. “We have a wider choice of food now. Mr. Beckham's done
a lot in terms of personnel, too; they seem more courteous. The whole place seems to be better managed.”

STAFF

Beckham has a loyal staff as well. “He's wonderful—he really is,” said Mrs. Joy Mayhew, at the cash register. “He’s
one of the nicest people I've ever known.” Back in the kitchen, Laura Jordan said, “He's the best I've been
under.” Billy Archie and Willie Rowlane agreed that he’s “a nice guy—easy to work for.”

Beckham is known as a “monotony breaker.” He plans his menus only a week in advance—“so that I can be
closer to the situation.” But even then, “I can change on a morning's notice.”

NOVELTY

“I don’t intend for any student to be able to predict a menu,” he says. Novelty is a part of
his routine—such as a special spaghetti supper last month.

Beckham, a natty dresser who wears a broad grin and a broad pair of shoulders, grew up in food service.
His father was in the restaurant business in Hartsville, S.C. He attended Coker College and the University of South Carolina;
after stints in the service, in finance, and as a restaurant owner in Society Hill, S.C., he joined Slater in
1962.

SATISFACTION

Davidson is his fifth college—following Columbia College, University of South Carolina, North Carolina State, and Louisburg College. “If I'm favorable
to the students and to the client (the college), I’ll stay,” said Beckham. “I'm certainly satisfied—and I’m not a trouble
shooter, just a resident food service man.”

Beckham is married and has four children—a boy, 10, and three girls, 9, 6, and 3.

PERFORMANCES RESCHEDULED

Mrs. Sterling Martin as Laura Wingfield, Bill Wiseman as Tom Wingfield, Mrs. Daniel Rhodes (l-r) and Walt Drake as Jim
O'Connor (not pictured) will be seen in Tennessee Williams’ “The Glass Menagerie” Tuesday and Wednesday nights at 8:45 in Hudson
Hall. These performances were rescheduled from Friday and Saturday due to basketball games scheduled on those nights. Ticket reservations are
being taken now and may be made by calling or going by the Drama Dept. office in the Cunningham Fine
Arts Building.

Interfraternity Co-Op Begins Purchasing

Partial operation of the Davidson College Interfraternity Cooperative Purchasing Association began Monday. Contracts with vendors of four commodities have been
let, and more contracts will be awarded shortly. The co-op is working on an experimental basis until the end of
this school year, in order to test its feasibility. The association has not yet hired a secretary-bookkeeper as it had
planned.

Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, explained the reason for this, “We felt that it would be better to wait until
a demand has been created for someone to fill this position. Actually, there isn't any real need at this time.”

Purchases are not being made through a central co-op organization yet. Fraternities are buying directly from the vendors. There is
one specified vendor in each commodity for all of the fraternities. The fraternities must purchase through these specified vendors unless
there is an emergency or a situation approved by the Board of Directors of the co-op.

Contracts have been awarded for linen, poultry and eggs, ice cream, and bread. Covington said that the overall discount had
not yet been figured, but that it would be between 10 percent and 15 percent. He added, “The discounts are
as good, or better, than expected. We plan to let the contracts for produce and meat by the end of
this week.”

The co-op association is also waiting on a ruling from the North Carolina Milk Commission as to whether it can
obtain the 12 percent discount on milk allowed to educational institutions.

The co-op was brought about mainly through the efforts of Covington and the Interfraternity Treasurers Council. The Board of Directors
of the co-op was recently elected: Charlie Edwards, chairman; Norman Pease, vice-chairman; Gary DeVane, secretary-treasurer.

When asked about continuing the co-op next year, Covington replied, “The prospects are real good. I feel sure it will
be continued.”

OUR YOUNG GENERATION: Saturday, March 12 8:30 P.M. CHARLOTTE COLISEUM

Tickets on sale at: Coliseum Box Office, National Hat Shop
Admissions $2.00, $2.50, $3.00

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and
SPAGHETTI

By ALLEN WEBB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“This notion of a Christian homogenized society is satanic,” charged Dr. Frederick J. Denbeaux at Vespers Sunday. “I don’t know
why I'm a Christian,” he continued. “It fits me, but it may not fit you.”

Thereby Denbeaux, professor of Biblical history at Wellesley College and a Presbyterian clergyman, censured both traditional evangelical Christianity and the
current “Death of God” movement, charging that the latter is “a Protestant movement desiring to homogenize the church and society.”

In a sermon entitled “Death of God,” the mustached professor summarized the history of the contemporary movement, calling it “an
attack upon traditional forms of thinking.” Although finding the Death of God theologians “insecure and uneasy because they want everyone
to be a Christian,” Denbeaux was grateful for their “nudging us toward life.” Moreover, their definition of God in terms
of verbs “reminds usof our own living God." The speaker then shifted his emphasis to the serious threat posed by
the potential combination of faith and culture, charging that "a Christian America would only be another name for Fascism." An
audible stir in the audience responded to his warning that a continuance of the present "immoral" policy in Viet Nam
would result in our becoming a "Fascist state."

In the discussion period following the sermon, Denbeaux elaborated on what seemed to be his obvious antagonism for evangelism; "Christianity
is just not everybody's cup of tea. I can't see ramming it down everybody's throats." In reply to a question
about the war in Viet Nam, he called it an "immoral situation" and wondered, "What good is God doing us
now?" "He will judge us," Denbeaux warned.

Several questions attempted to define his theological position. "I'm Biblical, not Calvinist," he replied, "and I'm theologically conservative." He further
characterized his theology as an "American version of Barth." On several points Denbeaux is inconsistent. For example, he stresses the
humanity of Jesus ("I think Jesus was often wrong."), but he believes in the literal resurrection of Jesus. When questioned
about a mortal man rising from the dead, he replied, "Just because I've never seen a human rise from the
dead doesn't mean it can't happen."

PRAM Solicits Aid For Exchange Trips

"Top-notch students" from seven colleges have already applied for participation in the Project of the Americas exchange program this summer
in South America, according to Erskine Sproul, president of PRAM. With applications already in from Duke, Vanderbilt, UNC at Chapel
Hill, Greensboro and Charlotte, Queens, Sacred Heart, Belmont Abbey, and Davidson, Sproul said that he was also expecting applications from
Louisiana State and Tulane.

In addition to this summer's program, which is sending three delegations of five students to Ecuador, Peru, and Honduras, PRAM
will also bring seven Ecuadorian university students to study and travel in the U.S. The entire exchange will consist of
22 students, costing PRAM about $500 each. PRAM is now participating in an extensive fund-raising drive on which, according to
Glenn Withrow, PRAM coordinator, "we're putting in 100 hours a week." The financial goal has been set for $20,000. The
bulk of the money now collected is the $2,000 from the Cannon Foundation. Money is being solicited from foundations, industries,
and individuals in the United States and Ecuador. Also, each local PRAM chapter has a $500 goal.

Thomas Bus Co. of High Point, which runs a line of buses in Ecuador, is highly enthusiastic about the project.
According to Withrow, this company may give money and/or a bus for the Ecuadorians to use while in the U.S.
this summer. PRAM has also applied for a highly competitive $10,000 grant from the Mary Babcock Foundation and has promising
contacts with Procter and Gamble and the Lineberger Foundation of Belmont. PRAM has an appointment Monday to ask for support
from the college. Following the recent write-up in The Charlotte News, PRAM will send out "Hot 100" letters to leading
businessmen and organizations in Charlotte requesting financial backing. "Any donations from alumni or friends are welcome," Withrow remarked. "Money can
be given to Davidson College and earmarked for PRAM."

Pass this quiz and Eastern will fly you to Florida or 79 other places for half fare. Any 12-year-old can
pass it!

1. I am 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 years old. (Circle one.)
2. I would like to spend $3 for an Identification Card entitling me to fly at half fare when a
seat is available on Eastern Airlines Coach flights to 96 destinations. True / False
3. My name is (PLEASE PRINT)
4. My home address is (STREET) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP CODE)
5. I was born on (MONTH) (DAY) (YEAR)
6. To prove the answer to Question 5, I will submit a photo-copy of (Birth certificate / Driver’s license /
Draft card / PLEASE EXPLAIN)
7. I am male/female. (Cross out one.)
8. I am a student at (SCHOOL NAME)
9. My residence address there is (STREET) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP CODE)
10. Eastern Airlines should mail my ID Card to: (Home address / School address)

I attest that all answers above are true. (SIGNATURE)

Now, mail the quiz, proof of age, and a $3 check or money order (payable to Eastern Airlines) to: Eastern
Airlines, Inc., Dept. 350, Ten Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10020. Or take the same to any of our ticket
offices.

If you're 12 through 21 and qualify, you'll soon get your ID card. It entitles you to an Eastern Coach
seat at half fare, on a space-available basis. Except on April 7 and certain days during the Thanksgiving and Christmas
holidays, you can fly to any of Eastern’s destinations within the continental U.S., including Florida.
