FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1966

Fraternity KA PLEDGES WASH CARS DURING GREEK WEEK

Brother John Hunter Supervises For Leaders’ Initiative

A national fraternity officer took a long, hard look at Davidson fraternities Monday night and came up with a plea
for increased initiative on the part of fraternity leaders. William LeClere, executive secretary of Chi Psi fraternity, speaking to fraternity
pledges in Hodson Hall at the annual Greek Week banquet, listed five dangers facing fraternities on this campus.

First, he said, the overwhelming preponderance of fraternities constitutes a danger for the system: “The ultimate solution will be either
the growth of the college or a shrinkage in the number of fraternities.” In the meantime, the plan for total
affiliation is, LeClere continued, only a temporary solution; but as long as the fraternities play such a large role in
campus life, it is their responsibility to take the initiative in enriching the total program of the college. “Fraternities must
provide an alternative,” he said, “and it's up to the undergraduates to find the alternatives, not the faculty.”

The second danger to which LeClere pointed was a lack of effective communication with the faculty. “The basic need,” he
said, “is to use some imaginative thinking,” using as examples programs undertaken by fraternity systems at other small colleges facing
problems similar to Davidson's.

Third, LeClere pointed out, fraternities need to strengthen alumni ties. An effective communication with alumni will lead the way to
greater alumni participation in the debate over the place of the fraternity system.

The heart of the problem, LeClere said in his fourth point, is the lack of imagination in undertaking new programs.
“By paying too much attention to the more outspoken members of the fraternity, you're neglecting the potential leadership of the
serious new freshmen and the mature seniors.” He pointed to the danger of directing fraternity programs too much in the
direction of “keg, combo and collections of couples.”

“The greatest danger to the fraternity system,” LeClere asserted, “is that it will die from within by losing sight of
its reason for being. You've got to hold to the basic tenets of the system.” Closely related to this was
LeClere’s final point: the danger of provincialism. “It's a fact of life at all colleges,” he concluded, “and you've got
to escape it and see that your little world isn't the entire world.”

Dr. Norman Guttman, psychology professor and director of psychology graduate studies at Duke, will lecture on “Human Behavior as Interpreted
by Learning Theory” at 8:15 p.m., April 20, in the Morrison Room of the College Union. On the next day,
he will conduct informal discussions, visit psychology classes, and advise the department on plans for possible future expansion.

By ED EMBREE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Carolina Inn, the old ramshackled home beside the Post Office on Main Street, has an interesting history and possibility
for imaginative use in the future. The house was built in 1837 by “L. Dinkens” who left his name on
the fireplace. Built the same year Davidson opened, the house served as a home until Hinson Pinckney Helper bought the
house in 1855 and opened the Helper Hotel in 1860. The hotel provided a place for travelers to stay and
for girls to stay during commencement exercises.

“Pinkey” Helper had a brother, an obscure author, who had an instrumental role in hastening the Civil War. Hinton Rowan
Helper published The Impending Crisis, an economic critique of the Southern slavery system, shortly before the War. The book was
used as campaign material by the Republicans. As a result, H. R. Helper was forced to leave the state and
the North Carolina legislature passed a Sedition law against the book.

Hinson Helper sold the house to the Sloan family who continued to use the house as a hotel until the
College bought the building in 1946 with the intent of converting it into a guest house. Funds have never been
made available for the necessary renovation and conversion of the house, however, and for the past several years the College
has allowed the town to use it as a “Teen Canteen” for local teenagers.

Several ideas have been recently forwarded for utilizing the old hotel for college purposes. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, Supervisor of Dormitories,
feels that the college is in need of additional guest housing and that the old hotel could provide a convenient
and historical building for such housing. This is the same opinion the college has held for the last 20 years
without results.

Phi Beta Kappa announced that the speaker for its annual visiting lecturer program will be Dr. Judson C. Ward, Jr.,
vice-president and Dean of the Faculties at Emory University. He will speak on “Teachers and Learners” at the open program
on Monday at 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Dr. William Muehl will be the vespers speaker this Sunday night. Dr. Muehl is a professor at the Yale Divinity
School, and Dr. Sam Maloney calls him “one of the most popular speakers at Yale.”

Another suggestion, probably more appealing to the Davidson student, is one made by Professor E. O. Wruck, who has suggested
renovating the inn to its original condition and opening it as a tavern and restaurant for the students. Wruck cited
the situation at Princeton where there are two taverns closely associated with the University. At one, the Nassau Inn, there
are boarding, restaurant and bar facilities and regulations concerning student dress, use and conduct in the Inn. Wruck went on
to cite Berea College in Kentucky which is similar to Davidson in many ways but owns and operates a tavern
and restaurant for the use of the students. Profits realized from the tavern have been used to pay student help
and provide for scholarships. Professor Wruck believes that such a tavern—used as a club for faculty, students, and guests—could be
operated here in a renovated Carolina Inn.

Here is a white-shirted figure with the bright colors of the Confederacy sewn on the back; there is one with
a coiled and menacing black snake. And the week after spring recess is not so dull—Greek Week is here. Two
months of pledge training are being completed this week, as pledges prepare to become brothers in their fraternities. Service projects
and pledge class competition mark this first Greek Week under the new rush pledge schedule, which makes the results more
important than ever.

The activities began Monday night with a charcoal steak banquet in Chambers dining hall. Pledges, pledge trainers, IFC representatives, faculty
advisors and the members of the faculty committees on Social Life Evaluation and Fraternities heard an address by William L.
LeClere, executive secretary of Chi Psi Fraternity. Chairman of the week's activities, David Westfall, remarked that, though not everyone agreed
with what he said, nearly all were impressed by his talk, especially the faculty. He compared the Davidson fraternity situation
to that of Williams and Amherst, saying that he was “disappointed with the lack of imagination” of Davidson’s fraternities and
the “student's defensive reaction to faculty criticism.”

ELECTION RESULTS STUDENT COUNCILBody Officers
President—Chuck Matthews
First Vice-President—Julian Prosser
Second Vice-President—Tom Earnhardt
Secretary-Treasurer—Bayard Miller

SENIOR CLASS
President—Paul Marion
Vice-President—John Fagg
Secretary-Treasurer—Jim Timmons
Representatives—Ken Gresham, Autrey Freshman Advisor—Bill Rikard

JUNIOR CLASS
President—Mike Powell
Representatives—Ben Cannon, Bill Watson

SOPHOMORE CLASS
President—Frank Murphy
Representative—Fletcher Hartsell

HONOR COURT
Defense Attorney—Don Carroll
Senior Representatives—Paul Curlee, Mac Gitts, John Sartorius
Junior Representatives—Cecil Clifton, Mike Mooty, Sam Hatcher
Sophomore Representatives—Tom Baker, Bill Williams

YMCA
President—Joe Jelks
Vice-President—Bobby Lane
Secretary—Hal Shaw
Treasurer—Steve Faulk

PUBLICATIONS
DAVIDSONIAN
Editor-in-Chief—Lesesne John
Miscellany Editor—Charles Vick
Quip and Cranks Co-Editors—Tom Thel, Ed Dwelle

COLLEGE UNION
President—Peter Parrott

CHEERLEADERS
Senior Class—Dave Perrin, Chip Pendicton
Junior Class—David Jennings
Sophomore Class—John Durham

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, tobacco, and pipe accessories. Maison Michel has
the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID
card, will entitle you to a 20% discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

“The emphasis this year,” said Westfall, “is on the individual classes finding and doing constructive projects on their own. We
don't want it to seem like they have to do something.” This they have begun industriously. The SAEs and Sigma
Chis initiated work on the fraternity co-op storage room, on which, time permitting, the other pledge classes will assist. The
Pi Kappa Phis are painting a local Negro church, the Betas are doing housework at the Barium Springs Orphanage, and
the SAEs are cleaning up the Davidson Community Center. All of the classes are engaged in similar activities.

All week long several of the fraternities have been scheduling athletic events between the pledges and brothers. Tuesday night the
Sigma Chi pledges defeated the brothers, including varsity players Ronnie Stone and Tom Youngdale. Wednesday, the Phi Delt pledges took
on the brothers in a softball game. The finale of Greek Week is today, with pledge field day and the
annual Pledge Regatta. The events will not depend on athletic prowess, said Westfall, but upon the ability of the class
to work together. “This will preserve the purpose of the new system, to build unified, mature classes.”

Davidson To Administer Selective Service Tests
Selective Service Qualification Tests will be administered at Davidson on May 10, May 21, and June 3. The test will
be used by local Selective Service boards in conjunction with students’ class ranks in determining future draft deferment. The test
is voluntary. Dr. W. B. Hight, director of student counseling, said that “each student should examine his rank in his
class and should make his own determination” about whether or not he should take the test. Applications for the test
must be postmarked by April 23. These applications and an explanatory booklet are now available in the Student Counseling Office.

A recent bulletin of the American Council of Education outlined the criteria which will be used by local draft boards
in determining student deferment:
(1) First-year students (rising sophomores) should make a score of 70, if they elect to take the test, be in
the upper half of their class, and should be accepted for admission to the second-year class.
(2) Second-year students should be in the upper two-thirds of their class.
(3) Third-year students should be in the upper three-fourths of their class.
(4) Seniors who plan to enter graduate school should make a score of 80 and/or be in the upper quarter
of their class.

Local boards may use the above qualifications as guidelines in determining who should receive deferment. Meeting these qualifications does not
guarantee deferment. However, local boards may, at their discretion, impose stricter standards for making decisions on draft deferment.

The day on which a student takes the test is decided by Science Research Associates, the firm which is handling
all assignments of test centers and the administration of the test on the national level. At Davidson, Dr. Hight will
administer the test in the College Union on all three dates. Dr. Hight indicated that if a large number of
students sign up to take the test at Davidson, they will probably be evenly distributed among the three test dates.
However, if few students sign up, they will probably take the test on the first test date.

A number of questions about the upcoming test are still unanswered. A representative of the Selective Service Board in Charlotte
indicated that the procedures for the test were prepared on short notice and that more information was expected shortly. The
Charlotte Board did recommend that students enrolled in ROTC take the test. Although enrollment in ROTC does carry some weight
in determining eligibility for draft deferment, some unforeseen circumstances, illness for instance, may cause a student to drop out of
the ROTC program. In such cases, these students would then be subject to the criteria outlined for use by the
local boards.

NOW YOU CAN FLY FOR HALF PRICE!
WE'RE SERIOUS! If you're under 22, you're eligible to fly stand-by for half-fare on: American, Eastern, United, TWA, Delta, National,
Western, Braniff, Continental, Northeast, to 215 cities in 45 states...

HOW? IT’S EASY! Just send for American's ID card with the coupon below. You'll also receive specially reduced rates at
over 130 Hilton and Sheraton hotels and resorts in 77 cities. The card never has to be renewed - good
until you're 22! SEND YOUR COUPON TODAY AND START FLYING HALF-WAY ON US.

AMERICAN AIRLINES
1750 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20006

Enclosed is $3
() Cash () Check () MO
Please send my ID card to:

Name: _______________________
Address: ______________________
City: _________________________
State: _______ Zip: _____________
