4] SINGLE WING POWER BENCH JOCKEY

Dirty Thirty Faces ECC

By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

ECHO CHAMBER REVISITED

It looked as if the boogey man had showed his unsmiling face at the Charlotte Coliseum last Saturday night when
Dick Snyder and his St. Louis allies set out to sharpen their techniques against a so-far hapless band of journeyman
hoopsters from Baltimore.

What do you say about the crowd? Well, it was the sort of turnout in which the opportunists among us
picked up a $1.50 ticket for a seat hidden from view by the catwalks and then sat in any of
several vacant $8 courtside box seats. Better it had been played in the Garinger gym. At least there could one
perceive some semblance of a crowd. Those who have been in the Coliseum only to witness Davidson basketball would have
gasped at the sight of sections upon sections of empty seats. Especially those who arrived late to find the parking
lot fairly full. Could the girlie show at Ovens Auditorium next door have had anything to do with that?

Coach Driesell and his famous stomp would have made like an earthquake, and half of the concessions stands never opened.
With the noise at somewhat less than fever pitch, a good pinch was needed at times to remedy the feeling
of anxious enthusiasm one might get from a two-hour practice session. Don’t get me wrong. It was a good, well-played
(considering the earliness in preseason play) and impressive game. But it's not often when you can hear the bench combining
its ad lib talents at the expense of referee and opposing player alike from where the double-lettered rows begin.

Add to this situation the fact that the 24-second clocks refused to work (maybe they didn’t play before small crowds)
and that Bob Quincy’s slightly less than eloquent “commentary” on the P.A. system did little but confuse the performers on
the court as he tried also to play time-clock, and you get a pretty clear picture of the uphill battle
which professional basketball encountered in Charlotte.

Oh, there were other minor disappointments. “Tricky Dick,” the pride of Concord Road, '65-’66 style, did not have an unusually
good night, and other local favorites Jack Marin of Duke and Bob Leonard of Wake Forest never got much further
than a pre-game introduction, causing sporadic chants to enliven the facilities as well as could be expected.

In between the glaring inconsistencies of the situation, there were numerous examples of beautiful execution combined with pre-season light-heartedness. St.
Louis player-coach Richie Guerin gave a lesson in the forgotten arts of the outside set shot and fantastic team play,
while the Bullets featured the shooting of Kevin Loughery and the antics of Gus “Honeycomb” Johnson.

Once again the people of Charlotte have shown themselves to relegate anything less than spectacular to the role of second
fiddle.

FROSH BATTLE FOR BOMB

As Cannon II Explodes Over East II, 12-0

Takes While To Feel Pro, Says Former Cat Snyder

By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

“It'll take probably until the middle of the year for me to feel within myself that I have started to
arrive at being a pro basketball player,” said Davidson’s own Dick Snyder after Saturday’s game between the St. Louis Hawks
and the Baltimore Bullets.

“The first thing that struck me when I got to camp was the willingness of all the veterans to help
us rookies in any way that they could,” Snyder said. “That meant a lot to me.”

“They worked with me on my ball handling, which still isn't near what it should be, and they gave me
confidence that I'll be able to do the job.”

Snyder did not have as good a night as he would have liked in his first return to the Charlotte
Coliseum since last year’s conference tournament. He did score eight points and contributed a good defensive game, but he has
set his sights a little higher as the season nears its point of no return—the onset of regular season play.

Richie Guerin, the Hawk player-coach, felt that, “Snyder is learning fast at a new position, with a bright future at
guard. Right now he's not sure of himself, but that will be settled with time. We're happy with Dick, and
I think he'll be around in this league for a long time.”

Bullet Coach Mike Farmer, himself a recently retired guard in the NBA, also commented favorably on Snyder. “He shows a
lot of promise from what we saw in this particular game.”

The Dirty Thirty carries an even 1-1 conference record into the game, while the Pirates are unbeaten in the conference
with one tie. The open date in the Wildcat schedule last week gave the coaching staff extra time to drill
the team in preparation for ECC's unusual brand of football.

East Carolina is one of only

HOMER’S HENCHMEN WORK-OUT

Sigs, Betas Retain Rivalry As Top Flickerball Feud

By BOB STUBBS
Sports Writer

The Kappa Sigs and Betas have again emerged as powerhouses in IMAC flickerball, after this week’s game action. The perennial
champion Sigs, coached by “Hands” Hearon, again struck fear into the hearts of their opponents. Led by “Cherub” Garrison, “Cool
Breeze” Rogers, “Foxy” Cox and “Golly” Jelks, they trounced the Pikas, 51-10, the Pi Kapps, 47-0, and the B’s, 44-27.
Against the Nus they came from behind to win, 25-20. Despite a late-game surge, the Sigs held on to defeat
the Phi Gams, 51-47, in an offensive duel.

The Betas displayed strong defense and offense in trouncing the Pi Kapps, 65-0, and Sig Eps, 32-7. Tucker Dalton scored
five touchdowns in the first game, as Jack Sherrill played a steady game at tailback. ATO, sparked by tailback Dave
Hardeman, continued to roll by Geoff Birkhead snagged numerous passes by Hardeman to ignite the ATO scoring machine. Pinky Hatcher
and Jim Houser helped KA to two victories. The KA’s edged the Pikas, 21-20, and the Phi Deltas 6-6 in
a sudden-death overtime on penetration after dropping the ball on a sure scoring play. Against the Fijis they lost 25-24,
showing a definite aversion to extra points by failing on four of four attempts. Another PAT attempt went awry as
the KA's fell to the Pi Kapps.

Cal Calhoun, sparkplug of the Phi Delts, assisted George House and Ronnie Hunt in carrying the Delts to a 26-19
triumph over the Pi Kapps and a 25-6 pasting of Sigma Nu. Only the overtime loss to the KA’s blemished
their record.

Various “stars” through afternoon labs, the team lacked a coordinated attack. The SPE’s took a firm grip on the cellar,
as their unvaunted offense could rarely muster a scoring punch. The Indies forfeited their first two games. They have been
waiting until the right time to spring their mystery offense into action. This unveiling could coincideWith the end of the
season, the Davidson ROTC Rifle team is now the Davidson College Rifle team, as the college has assumed sponsorship this
year. Capt. Donald Johns, a new military science instructor, has been named coach of the team, whose headquarters are in
the sub-basement of Belk. Johns said, “This is a varsity sport and therefore, participating students do not have to be
in the ROTC program to qualify for the team. All necessary equipment will be furnished for student use, including .22
caliber competition target rifles, firing jackets, target-spotting scopes, and ammunition.”

In freshman action, East I was upset by Cannon I, 25-20, but bounced back to defeat Watts, 55-33, in an
offensive explosion. Cannon I took over first place by virtue of a strong defense that intercepted seven errant East aerials.
Cannon II took their first two wins, shutting out East II, 12-0, and downing the Machis, 26-16; the Watts, 57-20,
when Watts forfeited. The Fijis, 38-18; and SPE’s, 51-18.

Capt. Johns said, “We have an expense account for out-of-town trips. This means we can eat, anyway.” The team will
make some rather attractive trips, all of which are on weekends, and it will fire against some of the best
college rifle teams in the country, such as The Citadel and Mr. There are still one or two openings on
the team for interested students, Johns said. The rifle range in the sub-basement of Belk will be open Monday, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday afternoons for practice, he said.

After a fast 26-12 shellacking of the E's, the fabulous Phi Gams could manage only one victory in their next
three encounters. Dan Sweet, “Trojan” Brannon, and “Fighting Gary” Peklo gave the Kappa Sigs a scare before they finally succumbed.
The Machis, after close defeats by the Nu's and ATO’s, unveiled a stunning offense to pummel the Pikas, 42-13. “Stump”
Allen and “Shifty” Clayton sparked the Machis. After a slow start, the E’s may have found a new offense to
go with a porous defense. “Pits” Armfield and “Coach Mac” McDonald supplied the impetus for the improving E's.

Sigma Nu was erratic after losing a nip-and-tuck battle with the Kappa Sigs. Rick Pfitzner got the job done at
tailback, aided by Toby Westmoreland, Bill Barnette, J. C. Burch, and “Zom” Galbraith. A 7-0 defeat of the SPE's gave
the Pikas their lone victory. A defensive collapse against the Kappa Sigs and the Machis sent them toward the cellar.
The Pi Kapps knocked off the KA's, 14-13, Wednesday to offset earlier lapses. They complained that due to the loss
of their key players, they were at a disadvantage.

Hawk captain and fellow guard Lennie Wilkins said he appreciated Snyder as a “thinking man.” His hustle, he said, along
with his good defense, makes him a big plus as far as the Hawks are concerned. “It'll take time—but he's
young.” Battling with Snyder at the guard spot is Rod Thorn, remembered by many as West Virginia’s ace in the
years of Davidson’s surge into national prominence. “Dick is coming along real well,” Thorn said, “and he has made the
transition from forward to guard surprisingly well. It won’t help me any, but he’s going to be a real fine
guard in the pros.” Center Zelmo Beaty also brought out that Snyder has probably the perfect size for his newly
acquired position. Snyder may not be the topic of conversation in basketball bull sessions as frequently as was Rick Barry
of the San Francisco Warriors last season, but observers have tagged him the John Havlicek of the St. Louis Hawks.

By DON SEWELL
Sports Writer

Game time is 2 p.m. Davidson’s Wildcats travel to Greenville, N.C., tomorrow to face tough competition. Smith and the other
coaches were able to scout the Pirates in their game last week when ECC blanked Furman 17-0. The outstanding offensive
player of that game for East Carolina was Jim Plowe, a fullback from Charlotte. Kevin Moran, a defensive tackle, is
their strongest lineman. The ‘Cats will go with the same starting backfield they used against Furman, with Jimmy Poole at
quarterback, Billy Taylor and Johnny Walker at halfbacks, and Kerry Keith at fullback. In predicting the chances of his Dirty
Thirty, Smith said, “This team is physically the strongest Davidson has faced in many years. Playing this team is a
great challenge and rare opportunity. We invited the test and we feel that we are ready to face it.”

In their first three outings this season, the Pirates have tied William & Mary, beaten Furman, and lost to Northeast
Louisiana, a team which faces Southeastern Conference opposition. Saturday’s contest will be ECC’s Homecoming game.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
217 N. Tryon St.

Pipe Smokers
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
matron michel
375-9723
Charlotte

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
MAIN ST.
Davidson, N.C.

Fashioned by England’s skilled craftsmen, new Imperial Classics feature fine genuine Horween Shell Cordovan Leather, soft glove leather linings, welted
double soles, storm leather heels, plus the Bates-Flex construction designed for comfort and flexibility.
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N.C.
Greenville, S.C.
