The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 20, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

An Evaluation

The year, for all practical purposes, is over. In light of a proposal by Dean of Students Richard C. Burts,
calling for a reorganization of student government, we are prompted to examine the Student Council’s role in influencing campus policies
during the past year.

There were two major issues this year which the Council could have strongly asserted its leadership: the abolition of Vespers
and changes in the structure of the Honor System and Student Body Regulations. Yet the Council contributed little more than
docile “endorsements” of plans submitted by other campus organizations.

In the Vespers question, student opinion played a major part in deliberations by the faculty’s Religious Life Committee, the Trustees,
and the faculty. But the student opinions were those of a small number of concerned students, not student-elected representatives.

The same can be said of the alterations in the Student Body Regulations: The changes came out of study and
work by several individual members of the Honor Court. The Council’s main claim to fame in the issue was its
two aborted attempts at referendums that ended up in the trash can.

Both issues are significant, and while the ultimate results will not be known for several years, the student body deserved
to be represented. The Council exists for no other reason. We believe that the changes made this year are good,
but they were made without the Council’s explaining or representing the student point of view.

In September the Council passed a platform of 16 goals, compiled from a number of planks from candidates’ platforms issued
in the spring. Several of the ideas, such as changes in Vespers and additional dorm phones, were implemented, but with
no help from the Council.

The only plank carried out successfully was that calling for a reduced number of chapels by reducing the number of
Monday chapels, a feat accomplished by simply doing nothing, since the Council is responsible for supplying speakers on that day.

The most promising idea was that of establishing a course evaluation program, an idea that has been discussed for years.
But in the eight months since the platform was adopted, the Council has not taken the first concrete step towards
accomplishing this goal.

We could go on, commenting on each of the other individual failures. But hopefully the examples cited already will point
up the need for a more effective and potent Student Council. We think Dean Burts’ “campus government” plan has promise
for such effectiveness. Rather than having 15 students voting on all matters, with no intimate knowledge of the issues presented,
there would be joint faculty-student committees with students eligible to vote on matters of policy, much like the present arrangement
of the Faculty Religious Life Committee, on which three students sit and vote.

Such a structure would allow students to become familiar with the particulars of a particular area of college life, rather
than being expected to be conversant with policy matters in general. The new system could also serve to bring the
faculty’s procedures into line with recommendations of the Self-Study, with its call for more committee action and less deliberation by
the faculty as a 75-to-80 member body.

Grow Up

It’s always been a college tradition, and deservedly so, we think, that freshmen should prove to be the most immature
class. It’s just come to be expected. And they have gone a long way towards proving it recently, with their
water bombs which make it impossible to walk within 30 feet of a freshman dorm without keeping an upward eye.

But the residents of Belk have outdone even the freshman pranksters. The water bombs are admittedly a nuisance, but they
don’t begin to compare with the spectacle of cherry bombs being catapulted from Belk towards Cannon dorm. With the window
screen in the freshman dorm gone (it makes for easier water throwing), the coast is clear for one of the
firecrackers to sail into Cannon in the midst of the taunting freshmen, with the possibility of serious injury or worse.

Come on, sophomores (and juniors and seniors), we expect it from the freshmen, but after two years?

On Lectures

Burns and Mead have come and gone, and with them the 1965-66 Reynolds Lectureship. While none would argue that both
of this year’s speakers were a compliment to the program, the administration and planning have left something to be desired.

Since the program was instituted in 1960, there has been an average of more than three speakers a year. This
year there were two, both ill-timed to fit into the college calendar. Eight months went by without a Reynolds Lecturer,
and then within two weeks, less than a month before exams, both James MacGregor Burns and Margaret Mead were here.
Such late visits would obviously not draw crowds as easily as would a mid- or early-semester visit, when there was
less activity to interfere.

Their visits would have also been much better received had they been better spaced and given more publicity. Hopefully students
will do at least a small amount of preparation for each lecturer in order to be slightly familiar with a
speaker’s background. But if one planned on doing so, he would have little time to prepare for Miss Mead’s visit,
coming hard on the heels of Dr. Burns.

The speakers’ ineffectiveness was heightened by their short visits. Miss Mead was hardly here for a day, arriving in the
afternoon and giving her last lecture the next night. Dr. Burns’ visit was somewhat longer, lasting slightly less than two
days. Both speakers held informal discussions soon after arriving on campus, but few people seemed to be aware of them,
except as they learned of them by word of mouth.

The Reynolds Lectureship has been Davidson’s primary means of drawing top-flight speakers. It’s a shame for it not to be
administered any more efficiently.

Associate Editors
JOHN BAILEY
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION

Managing Editors
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor
ROBBIE HOOKER

Feature Editor
LINDSAY DAVIS

Copy Editor
BILL SEIGLER

Photographers
BILL OLSON
GEORGE PURVIS

Cartoonists
BOB HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Billy Farr, Rich Millner, Mike Bates, Carter Fussell, Brodie Brown, John Williams, Cameron Ferguson, Rob Powell, Ed
Embree, Terry Sonnonstine, Jim Coyne, John Wessell, Geoff Seamans, George Cretekos, Dick Spencer, Geoff Birkhead, Charles Elliott, Cliff Duke, Al
Varner.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

D. C. STUDENTS OBJECT TO WAR

Editor’s Note: In the following article sophomore Geoff Seamans gives his impressions of last Sunday’s Washington Peace March. He and

By GEOFF SEAMANS

‘Draught Beer, Not Boys’

We have seen the end of required Vespers services, at least for a trial period of two years. No one
is jumping for joy, and a few people are even shedding some tears. The question goes beyond that of compulsory
worship services. It is at the heart of Davidson and all the college stands for. Granted that you can’t force
religion upon people and that it is even inconsistent with the Christian ideal to compel people to worship. Still there
is something beneath all this.

CONCRETE DECISION

The faculty has once again made a “concrete” decision without really attempting to deal with the situation and arrive at
a satisfactory solution. True it may be that the Board of Trustees left our administrators “holding the bag.” Still, the
faculty was in no way required to act in such a hurried manner.

Vespers is gone. O.K. But why do away with this institution before providing a viable alternative through which the College
will be able to express its Christian commitment?PLAN

A committee will study the possibilities and will present alternatives to the faculty for action, probably sometime early in the
coming academic year. But it seems that the action of the faculty should have been carried out with some definite
plan in mind. Faculty meetings get long and discussion drags. It is no doubt easier to come to a decision
of some sort than to see what lies behind the problem involved. Behind the decision of the faculty is the
entire problem of the purpose of Davidson College. The fact remains that we are floundering at present, and things like
this make it more difficult than ever.

VOLUNTARY VESPERS

It is obvious that the problem will bear much deeper study. In the interim, why not just do away with
required attendance at the Vespers services and hold them voluntarily at least until some better solution for the problem is
worked out? There is no way to know what kind of attendance the service would receive until it is tried.

MOTIVES NECESSARY

We have shown ourselves prepared to move forward in a constructive manner and to compete favorably. But to make important
moves without first clearly having in mind just what we are trying to accomplish is not to provide many answers.
All I ask is that we be certain of just what we are trying to do and that we don’t
move out of desperation under pressure of students or any other group.

Thus we wind it up. We've come a long way in 1965-66. By this time of year, no one cares
about anything except getting free from academic pressure. The summer promises for most people freedom from the “burden of the
books.” By this time of year, seniors are so far gone that they no longer try to do anything. Sometimes
it seems it would be nice to be a senior. The worst thing about the end of the year is
that the only thing anyone is interested in is finishing. It is just as hard to sit down and get
the papers graded as it is to get them written. By the time the last week of classes rolls around,
one begins to really wonder if anything could be worth it.

Moderate Protest Keynotes Peace March

By JOHN BAILEY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The general tone of last Sunday’s peace march in Washington was moderate. The crowd was mostly adult, although there were
people of all ages present. An officer of the Students for a Democratic Society from Chapel Hill griped about their
poor turnout, blaming it on the Bohemian element that was in SDS one week and trying the drug kick the
next.

The march began from the base of the Washington Monument. Usually traveling four abreast, the marchers walked to the White
House, marched in front of it, then paraded back to the monument on the other side of the President's home.
At the monument, signs and flags were discarded, and everybody awaited the start of the rally.

THREE CARLOADS

Three carloads of students went up from Davidson. We met under the North Carolina banner. North Carolina was an exception
in that the majority of its marchers were students. Most of the others were from Duke or Chapel Hill, with
a couple from State. Our group was larger than the one from Chapel Hill and almost as large as Duke's.
Several people expressed surprise that anybody from a conservative bastion like Davidson would show up. During the march, we could
occasionally hear (from sympathetic observers) statements of surprise that Davidson was represented.

COPS EVERYWHERE

Cops were everywhere: There must have been one every three yards along the march route. Gordon Ball snapped pictures of
every cop along the route, including one who was making an obscene gesture. We were restricted to the sidewalk, but
traffic was closed in all but one street that we had to cross. We made sure that people knew where
we were from. On one sign were hand-lettered the words “Davidson College, N. C.” and then right below (which we
hoped would be taken in the tongue-in-cheek spirit with which it was written), “Dean Rusk, Class of '36.” Nobody knew
if that were the right year, but it sounded good enough.

SPECIAL DETAIL

Every third or fourth cop wore a piece of tape around his left arm. We figured it was probably for
the purpose of taping someone's mouth shut, in case of any trouble. Joe Dial asked one of the cops, a
smiling Negro, what the tape was for. The cop answered that he couldn't think of an answer. A little later
we asked another cop, who replied that he was a member of “a special detail.” Just before we reached the
White House, a lady across the street yelled, “Are you all from Duke?” Some of the Duke people answered in
the affirmative. She yelled back, “Well, I think y'all are a disgrace.”

LITTLE HECKLING

Other than that, I heard very little heckling. Most people just looked. Across from the White House, a group of
about 20 people counter-picketed, carrying signs which identified them as members of the Young Americans for Freedom. I got a
kick out of some of their signs: one explained, “We Are for Peace, Not Surrender” and the one next to
it urged, “Bomb Hanoi.” Jack Woodall claimed he saw Bill Moyers standing in the White House yard. Nobody claimed to
see the President.

LARGE CROWD

When we got back to the monument, the last of the paraders had not yet left the reflecting pool. Crowd
estimates ranged from 7,000 to 12,000, and it seemed to me the higher figure was closer to the actual number.
The crowd was very orderly (it made Vespers look like the Democratic National Convention). A Newport News newspaper called it
a mob in the headline for their story on the march. If it was a mob, then it was a
mob only in the sense that any large group of people is a mob.

FAR LEFT ELEMENT

There was some of the really far left element present. Copies of The Worker were being hawked, but more in
evidence were vendors selling buttons with slogans like “Make Love, Not War,” “God Is Alive — in the White House,”
and “Draft Beer, Not Boys.” Copies of the newspapers of the Socialist Labor Party and the Youth Against War and
Fascism were being handed out free, but few paid much attention to them.

Speakers at the rally included Norman Thomas, newspaperman I. F. Stone, Irving Howe, pediatrician Dr. Benjamin Spock (who marched at
the head of the procession around the White House), and cartoonist Jules Feiffer.

HOLIDAY MOOD

The mood of the marchers was generally a holiday one, although everyone was genuinely angry. But occasionally during the rally
even the holiday atmosphere was forgotten, as Norman Thomas, his voice strained, bewailed the killing of American troops, Viet Cong,
and Vietnamese civilians, and as I. F. Stone, crying at the end, prophesied that we are “marching toward a bottomless
pit of destruction and devastation.”

CANNED CREDIBILITY

Feiffer ended the rally on a comic (though no less serious) note. Pointing out that television producers use canned laughter
to make funny those programs that are unfunny, Feiffer suggested that the President use canned credibility comments to make credible
those speeches which are unbelievable. During every public appearance, comments like “He has access to information we don’t know,” or
“He certainly doesn’t have the face of someone who wants a nuclear confrontation with China” could be run over a
“canned credibility track.” Then everyone got up, picked up the litter of Coke cups and cigarettes, heard Pete Seeger sing
a folk song, and went home.
