i ‘ _ "— _|Second-Half Wave | After Swamps The Point

WHEN YOU'RE SECOND, YOU TRY HARDER

By CLIFF DUKE Sports Writer

Now that Sports Illustrated has appeared in this hamlet, basketball season has officially begun. It’s really too bad that SI
didn’t wait to see last night’s game before picking West Virginia to win the Southern Conference. We only had one
starter to have a bad night, but West Virginia had Ron Williams and Bob Benfield, whose knee is the most
famous joint in the conference, as they barely beat East Carolina.

The current reasoning so far has been that Williams wouldn’t miss a shot this year because he got contact lenses.
Well, that isn’t the way it is. Could it be that Williams can’t shoot when he can see the goal?
He did pretty good last year with teammates reading the scoreboard to him? Davidson doesn’t have that problem. Lefty’s boys
have to have perfect eyesight so they can see the television set during games. If you can’t see yourself on
Lefty's network, what’s the use of playing?

Also on the basketball scene is the problem of overused adjectives. The word “improved” has been used so much with
Tom Youngdale’s name that it sounds like his first name. Better it be said that he is finally reaching his
potential. Youngdale carried the team last night during the first half on the boards and on the scoreboard. When he
and Rod Knowles both have a good night, watch out!

On paper it would appear logical that West Virginia ought to be the team to beat this year in the
Southern because of the return of Williams, Benfield, and Carl Head. Unless your center is over seven feet tall and
goes to UCLA, your chances of getting picked to win anything with sophomores in numbers over one is slim. So
be happy. Does anyone outside the gym really expect us to be a great team this year? Lefty once told
me that the Hetzel-Snyder-Davidson-Teague-Marcon team might lose 15 games their last season and I didn't believe him. But if he
says the same thing now, I might.

This year’s team will not coast through the season just to lose in the finals of the Southern Conference Tournament.
If you like to win so bad that the reserves play more than the starters and Tom Peddicord will pull
a Jim Hyder, forget it. For the first time since most of us have been here, most of our games
will be close and not settled until someone blitzes the enemy into submission as before, only later. When you don’t
have a superstar, you have to scratch harder for enough points to keep that streak going. We don’t have many
guys who can kill with their consistent gunning. This year will find a different player getting the points we need
to win. There will be games Davidson will lose because our opponents will find the magic key to bottle up
all the guns, but they will not come often. When you have better balance, you have a better chance to
find the weak spot in the defense you face and beat it. Despite the grumblings that this could be a
bad year, I can see only clear sailing for the ‘Cats through this month. That means 10-0 and a Charlotte
tournament win. Ask me about January after the Richmond game.

OLD HABITS

A disturbing factor of the announcement of the All-Southern Conference football team was the conspicuous absence of Renn Gruber from
the 44-man squad. When members of teams like Wittenberg say that Gruber is the best safety they have ever seen,
how do you keep him off even the second team of the conference team? Coach Homer Smith sadly noted, “I
was extremely disappointed and I just cannot see how they overlooked a player like Renn Gruber. People are just not
in the habit of voting for Davidson players for all-conference. We will just have to try harder.”

If you think some professors are bad type-graders, you ought to look at the results of this year's poll of
Southern Conference Sports Writers Association members. These are the guys who ought to know but evidently they have judged Davidson
football on the same level as The Citadel, Furman, and VMI as far as good players are concerned. To further
make my point, some of the writers did not even put Poole on their ballots because Garrett Ford, the halfback
from West Virginia, and Chuck Albertson of William and Mary led the voting. Homer has said that there ought to
be an investigation of the vote if Jimmy Poole is not Player-of-the-Year. The northern half of this league is stronger
than the southern, but they don’t have the corner on all the good football players in the conference. As far
as those of us that did vote for Gruber, Poole, and the others for the first team are concerned, they
still rate the recognition.

The Davidson Wildcats, relying on a tenacious man-for-man defense and blistering second-half shooting, ushered in a new basketball season by
trouncing Wake Forest, 76-63, at the Charlotte Coliseum last night. This edition of the Wildcats, without a senior on the
roster and with three sophomores in the starting lineup, was labeled an unknown quantity prior to the opening tip-off. But
the trio turned in yeoman performances in leading the waning surge in the final stanza.

The Demon Deacons dictated the wild nature of the contest by opening with a half-court press. The first half pitted
Huckel’s aggressive driving, Sinnock’s outside jumpers, and vastly improved Tom Youngdale’s shots from the free throw lane against the Deacons’
brilliant shooter, Paul Long. The ‘Cats, hampered by numerous turnovers, could never break away. Finally, Jerry Montgomery’s jump shot with
seconds remaining narrowed the Wake Forest deficit to 33-32 at intermission.

In the second half, with Huckel clamping down on Long, the ‘Cats were able to forge a victory out of
55 percent shooting. During one critical stretch of four and one-half minutes, they rushed from a 47-41 margin to a
61-43 lead. After the game, new Deacon Coach Jack McCloskey reflected with disappointment, “Davidson played real well. I thought our
Paul Long had a fine game, but they did a job defensively on him in the second half. We lost
our poise in there and let the game get away from us."

Huckel, in addition to leading Wildcat scorers with 18 points, guarded Long after Sinnock drew his third foul and limited
him to two field goals and a total of six points in the ensuing 22 minutes. Sinnock and Youngdale, who
garnered a game-high of 16 rebounds, chipped in with 15 points apiece, while Moser directed the team with poise and
flashy ball-handling.

PITT, PALADINS Cagers To Test Tough Teams

By DON SEWELL Sports Writer

Davidson's cagers follow up their opener with games against the Pittsburgh Panthers and Furman’s Purple Paladins. The Panthers journey to
the Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow night to test the 'Cats. Next Tuesday's game against Furman will be played on the Paladins’
hardwoods.

“Pitt usually has a good team and I am sure we will have to play good basketball to beat them,”
said Coach Lefty Driesell. “We don't know much about their personnel, but Coach (Gail) Catlett will have scouted their opener
against Carnegie Tech.”

According to pre-season predictions, Pitt should be able to better their dismal 7-15 record of last season. Although they lost
key players from last year, the Panthers will be depending on returning men to mount pressure defense and a free-wheeling
offense. Coach Bob Timmons will have three starters from last year’s squad around whom to build. Stan Falenski, who averaged
over 12 points per game last year, will be at a guard position. Veteran Jim LaValley, a 6-5 center, will
be back at his pivot slot after averaging 10 points there last season. Ken Bollens, a 6-4 forward, should add
rebounding strength. Joining these veterans will be members of last year’s freshman team, which finished 12-5. Dave Welty will be
Falenski's partner in the backcourt. Lenny Kalata, a 6-4 soph, will join Bollens up front. Pitt's success this season depends
on the strength added by the sophomores.

Furman is playing this season under a new head coach, Frank Selvy. J. Lyles Alley, former coach, will be devoting
full time to being Furman's athletic director. In his career as a Paladin, Selvy became the only major college player
to score 100 points in a game against Newberry in 1954. This feat is still the intercollegiate record which Selvy
holds along with two other major records. He and his Paladins will be out to improve their 9-17 mark of
last season. With 6-5 Den Webster, a 19-point per game man last year, 6-6 Steve Lawrence, 11 points per game,
and two strong sophomores, Furman should be a stronger team. The sophomores who will start are Jeff Melish, 22 points
a game as a freshman, and Dick Esleck, 18 per game last year.

“Webster is one of the best big men in the conference, Lawrence and the two sophomores are good too,” Driesell
said. “Besides, Furman is always tough to beat.” He added, however, that since this will be the ‘Cats’ first conference
game, his squad will really be out to win it. “All conference games are vital,” he said.

Poole, Four Teammates Get All-Conference Nod

Quarterback Jimmy Poole led a contingent of five Davidson players on the All-Southern Conference 44-man squad announced Wednesday in Richmond.
Chosen to the second teams of the squad by members of the SC Sports Writers Association were senior linebacker Tommy
Dews, senior guard Bill Webb, senior offensive end Bill Rikard, and junior center Walter Greene. Poole won the quarterback spot
on the first team, joining such standouts as pro prospect Chuck Albertson, offensive end from William and Mary, and Garrett
Ford, possible All-America halfback choice from West Virginia. William and Mary and East Carolina each placed four men on the
first 22. George Washington, West Virginia, and Richmond won three places with the inclusion of Bill Toddman, Tom Walker, and
others.

(Photo Courtesy The Charlotte Observer)

“GET YOUR FINGER OUT OF MY NOSE” Stroupe (L) Clutches Rebound As Scott Elbows Knowles

Kittens Quell Wake Surge To Net First Win, 103-90

By DANNY WHITE Sports Writer

The Davidson Wildkittens held off a determined second-half comeback by the Wake Forest frosh to post a 103-90 victory in
the opening game of the season for both teams. It was an especially satisfying victory for the ‘Kittens because the
1966 Deaclets were heralded as the greatestFrosh ever at Wake Forest. Coach Neil Johnston's Baby Deacs, down 52-39 at the
half, used a fast break and the shooter Fred Ackley to draw to within three points of the Kittens in
the second half. The Kittens suddenly regrouped and gradually broke the game wide open with bullseye accuracy from the foul
line and determined hustle on the court. The Kittens also dominated the backboards, outrebounding the Deacs, 62-41. Big gun for
the Kittens was pivotman Mike Maloy. Maloy scored 26 points and pulled down 21 rebounds. Doug Cook, sharing the double
pivot with Maloy, tossed in 23 points and grabbed 13 rebounds. Wingman Jan Postma got 24 points, mostly on important
foul shots in the second half, plus eight rebounds. Wingman Jerry Kroll picked up 19 points, eight rebounds, and three
assists. Randy Jones scored four points. Davis Liles and Johnny Baker also saw action for the Kittens. The Wildkittens and
the Deaclets started the game fast and swapped basket for basket for much of the first half. The Deacs gradually
cooled off and fell too far behind to catch up.

Records this year and was a top scorer in the league much of the season, and safety Renn Gruber, whose
play was a major factor in tightening a sometimes leaky Wildcat defense. Among the first team players who performed well
against Davidson were sophomore end Maloy’s fantastic shots under the boards kept the crowd buzzing. When he left the game
with five fouls, he was given a standing ovation. “I think that this will be the toughest team that we
will face this year,” said Kroll, “It was Cook and Maloy that won the game for us.”

IMAC Hoop Action Commences Monday
By BOB STUBBS
Sports Writer

IMAC basketball season will get underway officially Monday, IMAC president Jack Sherrill announced this week. Sherrill said this year’s schedule
is a round-robin set-up, with no team playing two games until all other clubs have played. This arrangement, Sherrill said,
will facilitate scheduling and prevent any team from getting far ahead of the others in the number of games played.
“We will use two courts simultaneously,” Sherrill said, “but of course we will have to work around the freshman basketball
practice schedule. There will be no games on Wednesdays since there is practice that night, and no games when the
varsity plays in Davidson or Charlotte. Most games will be played at night, except a few freshman games.”

Defending champions are the ATO’s, who return with a veteran team. “We are deep everywhere,” said Coach Geoff Birkhead, “and
I think we have a good chance to win again. The eventual champions will lose at least one game due
to better league balance.” Ray Garrison will hold down the backcourt, with Tucker Laxton and Dennis Nicholson providing height. The
Sigs boast 13 players whom they say can play “good basketball.” Rick Moore, Dave Hardemann, Dave Jennings, and Birkhead return
from last year’s team, with ex-Leftyist Cecil Clifton adding his prolific touch. Sophomores John Hanselman and Bill Clark are expected
to aid the Tau cause.

The Machis lost Basil Hicks from last year’s runner-up club. Joel Williamson, Tommy Clayton, and Geordie Mueller will provide experience,
with towering Jeff Pflugner adding height to the squad. The Kappa Sigs, who trail the Phi Delts by 11 points
in the IMAC total standings, call themselves “the best of the league.” Rusty Brannon, John Hanselman, and Bill Clark are
expected to aid the Tau cause.

The Phi Gams are rebuilding this year after losing all their strength on the boards. “We will be good from
the outside,” said Coach Rich Graham, with such capable stars as Dan Sweet, Dave King, Doug Rhymes, Tommy Caldwell, Barry
McLean, and Dave Fearnbach. The SAE’s said they will field a “typically tough” team this year if they don't have
to play in Davidson or Charlotte. Most games will be played at night, except a few freshman games.

Veteran Ronnie Hunt will lead the always rugged Delts, with George House and Cliff Duke manning the backcourt. Hatchetman John
Fagg and 6-5 soph Ray Logan will give the Delts enough strength to better last year’s 7-5 record. The Pikas
are looking optimistically toward third or fourth place. They claim they will be even more fabulous than in past years,
with Bob O'Kelley, Bryant Hinnant, Wayne Magnum, Tom Poston, and John “Bubba Kill” Croom leading the Pikas. The Pi Kapps
return with a veteran team that expects to “win our share of victories.” Bill Adams will provide halftime entertainment while
reserves Doug Armfield, Chet Davidson, Mike Booe, K. D. Weeks, Gresh Bayne, and Brevard Wallace will provide entertainment while on
the court.

The Betas are confident but seem to have little ability. “All our starters are juniors,” said an anonymous team spokesman,
“but none is good enough to mention. We'll win a few games this year.” Fletcher Hartsell is the only bright
spot in this rebuilding year. The Independents have lost several players to graduation or the fraternity court. Bruce Weidner, Charlie
Vick, Bill Seigler, and Don Sewell will give the Indies a solid base of talent. Robbie Hahn of Furman, fullback
Larry Zunich of Richmond, and linemen Walter Bostic and Johnny Crew of East Carolina.

Grapplers Open At Duke Tonight
Paced by Colin Hudson and Kerry Keith, the Wildcat grapplers open their season tonight at Duke, as Coach Charles Parker
faces his age-old problem — lack of participants. Asked about the coming season, Parker replied “Help!” The Cats have only
two weight classes with more than one participating wrestler, and there is no one in line for the 145-pound class.
“We’re real good at the lower weights, and the top two weight divisions have outstanding wrestlers,” said Parker. “But lack
of depth and the weaker middle weights are going to hurt.”

Sophomore Hudson, undefeated as a freshman, will hold down the 123-pound division. By the Southern Conference Tournament, he should be
down to 115 and, according to Parker, will be a good bet to win that division in the tournament. The
130-pound weight class will be filled by senior captain Joe Buffington, who lost only one dual match last year. He
has been third in the conference for two seasons and is expected to improve this season. Sophomore Dean Cromartie will
tackle the 137-pound class, which is one weight above what he should hold. Nevertheless, he is expected to be a
help to the team. Unless Parker can pull a wrestler out of a hat to fill the 145-pound class, this
division will have to be forfeited in every dual match.

In the 152-pound division, sophomores Bryan Pittman and Rick Travilla are battling for the position with Pittman somewhat ahead at
present. Senior Terry O’Hair is the Cat hopeful at 160 pounds. “Terry has been working real hard,” said Parker, “and
should have a good year.” The 167-pound division is taken by senior Jim Wilson, who has never wrestled at all
before this season. Sophomore Keith is expected to have an outstanding season in his 177-pound weight class. As a heavyweight
in his freshman season, the former Virginia state high school champ went undefeated even though he usually wrestled men much
bigger than himself. Junior Lowell Bryan is the number one heavyweight ahead of junior Richard Martin. “He lost only one
dual match last year,” said Parker, “and once he gets into shape, he should have a fine season.”

Duke, the first Cat opponent, is something of an unknown quantity this season. Parker commented, “We haven't wrestled them in
three years, and I really don't know what they have.” The wrestlers face a demanding pre-holiday schedule. Along with Duke,
the Cats face VMI and North Carolina in away matches. Parker stated that West Virginia and The Citadel would be
the top conference teams this year. The outlook for this season is not the brightest. And the prospects for depth
in the seasons ahead are not helped by the fact that only five freshmen have shown up for this year’s
Kitten team, which could necessitate the cancellation of the freshman schedule. However, with the help of Hudson and Keith, the
Cats should be able to improve on their 2-7 mark of last season.

FLAMING STEAKS
DELICIOUS FLAMING STEAKS
SUCCULENT SEAFOOD PLATTERS
Served with choice of baked or French Fried Potatoes, Gold Mine Salad, and Garlic Roll
COLISEUM SHOPPING CENTER
3714 EAST INDEPENDENCE BOULEVARD
½ MILE EAST OF COLISEUM
