WILDCATS 1966-67

Front Row (l-r): Dickens, Y; Back Row: Driesell, Holland, Pickens, Moser, Huckel, Knowles, Crosswhite, and O'Neill. Sinnock, Spann, Orsbon, Catlett,
and Couch.

Big Cats Inherit Star Role
By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

The burden of making up for the absence of Dick Snyder this year falls upon the shoulders of 6-9 Rod
Knowles and 6-10 Tom Youngdale, two of the staff of Wildcat tri-captains, and the effectiveness of this year’s basketeers may
well depend on these two. “Naturally we hope that they will carry the offensive load," said Coach Lefty Driesell. “They
will have to score better and work harder on the boards this year because we don’t have Snyder."

“We are also hoping,” continued Driesell, “that both will improve on defense. Most of all they have become more experienced.
Youngdale guarded corner men for the first time in his career last year. Knowles should do a better job this
year of protecting the basket.”

Driesell cited experience as a major criterion in the importance of the towering twosome this season. He felt that their
starting every game and playing close to 40 minutes in each tilt last season would give them an edge this
year. “Knowles should have a big year," said Driesell. “He averaged 30 points a game in the NCAA Eastern Regionals,
leading scorers and rebounders, and made the All-Eastern Regional team."

Driesell also noted the hard work Youngdale has put in since last season. “Tom has matured a lot over last
year as a person and as a basketball player. He is probably the most improved player from last year’s squad,
but it’s hard to evaluate so far because we haven't played any games yet.”

An All-State and all-conference star at La Salle-Peru High School in Illinois, Youngdale said he felt he had improved his
coordination and strength from last season and attributed the improvement to experience. “A year of experience means an awful lot
to a varsity basketball player,” he admitted.

Youngdale remarked that the schedule looked tougher than last year's and that the success of the ‘Cats would depend on
whether they can get together and play well as a team. “We have a lot of good individuals,” he said,
“but it will depend on the teamwork we can muster up.”

Knowles, a High School All-American, N.C. all-star, and three-time all-conference player in Greenville, returns with a sophomore average of 19.4
points and 9.8 rebounds per game. “The biggest improvement on my part is that I think that I'm driving more
than before," he said.

Knowles said that his goal for the season is for the ‘Cats to maintain their streak of 20-victory seasons and
to take the Southern Conference crown. “Maybe if we get lucky and get a few breaks, we can get into
the NCAA playoffs again,” said Knowles.

Youngdale commented that Knowles had all the tools to become another Davidson basketball star. “He is slated to be an
All-American. I hope he gets good enough so that he can be one.”

Returning the favor, Knowles lauded Youngdale's improvement. “Tom will be a big factor in scoring and rebounding this year. Usually,
a team does not have two men big enough to guard both of us. Also, Tom draws the bigger man
and I usually get the smaller, which helps me a lot. Tom has really improved on his ball-handling and shooting
from last year. He is really looking great.”

Huckel, Moser Give ’Cats Spirit, Smoothness, Shots
By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Saturday evening, as the chilling air of dusk settles over a battered gridiron and rings the curtain down on the
Year of the Dirty Thirty, loyal fans will migrate to the cozy confines of Johnston Gymnasium for the first revival
of basketball, Davidson's winter religion. And for a team without seniors and only two returning starters, two sophomores figure to
be chief Defenders of the Faith.

Dave Moser will supplant departed Phil Squier at the vital point position. As a senior in Ft. Wayne, Ind., Moser’s
16-point average and steady ball-handling paced his team to a 25-5 record and the runner-up slot in the state tournament.
Along the way, he was named All-City, All-State, and MVP in the sectional tournament. Tabbed the number-two player in the
state by sportswriters, Moser performed capably in the annual summer showdown with Kentucky's All-Staters.

Choosing Davidson over Indiana was “a real tough decision because my high school coach went to Indiana as freshman coach.
But Davidson offered a better education, and I thought I'd like the South.” He must have become acclimated quickly because
he immediately took charge of the promising Wildkittens and engineered them to a 12-4 record while tallying 16.2 points per
game and leading the squad in assists. But the pressure was nothing compared to what he will face this year.
One of the keys to Wildcat success will be Moser's ability to lead the fast break, quarterback the offense, get
the ball into Rod Knowles and Tom Youngdale, and yet score from the outside to keep the defenses honest.

Moser's partner outside, Wayne Huckel, claims, “Dave is the best off-balance shooter I've ever seen. He always hits the open
man. He's poised and quick, and will take command as one of our tri-captains.”

Merely to state Huckel's athletic abilities comes out like a lie. In high school at Cranford, N.J., he played football
until his junior year, then took up soccer and made the All-County team. In track, he threw the javelin well
enough to place fifth in the state, and he fooled around with baseball. In basketball, his 21-point production as a
senior led his team to county and sectional championships and earned him an All-State berth.

Huckel chose Davidson over Dartmouth in order to “find out if I could play big-time basketball.” His first season, in
which he led the Wildkittens in scoring (20.2) and in diving to the floor to retrieve loose balls, convinced everyone
he could. Huckel is being counted on to provide an outside threat, but as a selfless team man, he maintains
that “if I see someone open closer to the basket, I'm going to pass to him.”

Moser, his close friend off court, stated, “It’s great to have Wayne beside me. If I gamble on defense and
miss, he'll take up for me until I can recover. And when you see him hustling so hard, you decide
you've got to do something yourself.”

Coach Lefty Driesell acknowledged the value of the two sophomores to the team, saying, “Both are good athletes and competitors.
Moser will quarterback us and give us the first outside shot we've had at guard, while Huckel will score and
help Moser harass the other team's guards.”

When the ball goes up on Dec. 1 at the Charlotte Coliseum, Southern Conference Coach of the Year Lefty Driesell,
a house-full of curious fans, a tough Wake Forest team, and 11 anxious roundballers will find out if this is
going to be a “rebuilding” year, in the ailing sense of the word for Davidson’s Wildcats.

Back this year with a team void of seniors, Driesell will try to take up where he left off last
year. His '66 ‘Cats were winners of the Southern Conference title, first-round winners in the NCAA playoffs, and ranked 18th
in the nation. Last season marked the fourth 20-win season for Driesell and the 'Cats. His teams hold the national
field goal percentage record for three consecutive years and have been successful with over 50 percent of their floor shots.
Twenty sell-out crowds saw All-American captain Dick Snyder lead Davidson to the conference championship.

The question to be answered now is whether the Wildcats can maintain their high standards without Snyder.

VARSITY SCHEDULE
Dec. 1 Wake Forest Charlotte
3 Pittsburgh Charlotte
6 Furman Here
10 Michigan There
13 VMI There
15 Princeton Charlotte
17 BRR TCE There
20 George Washington Charlotte
28-29 Charlotte Invitational Tournament
Jan. 2 Virginia There
4 I There
7 West Virginia Charlotte
10 The Citadel There
13 Virginia Tech Charlotte
28 Wake Forest Greensboro
Feb. 1 West Virginia There
4 St. Joseph's Charlotte
7 Richmond Here
11 Marquette There
14 William and Mary Charlotte
16 Furman There
21 VMI Here
24 The Citadel Here
Mar. 2-4 Southern Conference Tournament Charlotte
11 NCAA First Round Playoffs

VARSITY ROSTER
CENTERS
Class Hgt. Wgt. Hometown
Rocky Crosswhite Soph 6-8 187 Bethesda, Md.
Mike Dickens Soph 6-7 200 Newport News, Va.
Rod Knowles Jr 6-9 225 Greenville, N.C.
Tom Youngdale Jr 6-10 230 Peru, Ill.

FORWARDS
Wayne Huckel Soph. 6-3 200 Cranford, N.J.
Mike O'Neill Soph. 6-5 195 Valparaiso, Ind.Ind. Tony Orsbon Soph. 6-3 170 Millers Creek, N.C. Scott Sinnock Soph. 6-4 180
New Castle, Ind. Mike Spann Soph. 6-4 195 Burlington, N.C.

GUARDS
Dave Moser Soph. 6-1 175 Ft. Wayne, Ind.
Bob Pickens Jr. 6-1 180 Winfield, W. Va.

The issue this year is that of sophomore inexperience. "We won't know until the first game," says Dave Moser, probable
starter at the point position. "What we lack in experience at the first year," added Driesell, "we should have by
tournament time. That's what we will point toward."

On the All-America candidate, Rod Knowles and "much improved" 6-10 Tom Youngdale will provide rebound power and scoring potential. Knowles,
who last year won several individual honors, including All-Southern Conference second team, is rated as a star potential by pro
scouts. "I have improved this year," said Knowles. "I spent my summer practicing at camps, here at Davidson, at Buie's
Creek, and in New York." Of Knowles, Driesell added, "He had a good year last year, and this year, well,
we're expecting big things from him."

Of Youngdale, Driesell said, "There's no doubt that there will be a marked difference in his play. He has worked
hard and now handles the ball and shoots much more effectively."

Backing up these two front positions, there will be strong sophomore help. Rocky Crosswhite, who "has had some really great
practices," will add height and a good shot, and 6-7 Mike Dickens "can come in there to do a good
job for us at one of those positions," Driesell said.

At one wing will most probably be Wayne Huckel, considered by Driesell the "toughest competitor on the court." Sports Information
Director John Kilgo has said that Huckel literally "bleeds" in practice every day.

As tri-captain Dave Moser commented, "I don’t guess they'll know until the night of the game." Sinnock, back this year
after a semester at Ball State University, will have a great return value. "He handles the ball and moves well
for his shots" and has been working hard to get in shape this year. While O’Neill has a good shot,
Spann is a "great hustler," and these two sophs both will provide rebounding strength.

Sophomore Moser will accent the offense with his ball-handling agility and a deadly outside shot from the point. "His elbow
was slow healing from an operation," commented Kilgo, "but now he has quit favoring it and started hitting and driving.
He’s a great shooter, the defense can't slough off him, and if they are tight on him, he can drive
the lane, draw the big defensive men off Youngdale and Knowles."

Bob Pickens from Brevard Junior College will help Moser at that position. "He's plenty good with the ball, a great
defensive player but needs to get some confidence with his shooting," remarked Driesell. "He has helped Moser to be a
better player by offering him a tough defense in practice," added Kilgo.

West Virginia, with Ron Williams in the lead, is picked by some sports writers to win the Southern Conference. But
as Driesell quipped, "They said that last year too, didn't they?"

About the schedule, Moser said, "Most of the teams we are capable of beating, but they are capable of beating
us, too. They are tough but not too much to handle. As for the first game with Wake, we will
have to beat them on the boards because they have two great guards."

So, even though it may be reconstruction in Davidson, 'Cat fans can look forward to great basketball. "We are not
going to make any sacrifices because of our youth," Knowles assured. "Our sophomores are good, and by tournament time we
should be one or two in the conference."

WILDKITTEN PERSONNEL
"He won't play like a sophomore. I wouldn't be surprised if he scores close to 20 a game."

"The other wing spot is up for grabs," said Mike Spann, one of the contenders for that position. Mike O'Neill,
Scott Sinnock, and Spann can all play.

Name Hgt. Wgt. Hometown
Johnny Baker 6-4 185 Leaksville, N.C.
Rick Barton 6-2 180 St. Charles, Ill.
Doug Cook 6-6 220 Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.
Scott Davis 6-3 180 Kingsport, Tenn.
Fox DeMoisey 6-3 170 Ft. Thomas, Ky.
Randy Jones 6-0 165 Greensboro, N.C.
Jerry Kroll 6-4 185 Houston, Tex.
Davis Liles 6-6 181 Monroe, N.C.
Jim Long 6-6 205 Cincinnati, O.
Mike Maloy 6-7 200 New York, N.Y.
Ben Moore 6-1 165 Columbia, S.C.
Calvin Murphy 6-3 180 Charlotte, N.C.
Jan Postma 6-5 183 Marianna, Fla.
Kent Rhodes 6-4 185 Portsmouth, Va.
John Tolle 6-3 185 Joliet, Ill.

Talent, Desire Keynote ‘Kittens
By GEORGE ROBINSON
Sports Writer

Manned by an impressive array of talented athletes, Davidson's Baby Cagers may prove just as explosive as the varsity’s Fearsome
Five. The ’Kittens sport a tall squad, sparked by two high school All-Americans and marked by depth and desire.

"This freshman team has the best size of any we've ever had," said Coach Terry Holland. "They're as good as
any freshman team in the country."

Anchoring the starting berths will be Fox DeMoisey, Jerry Kroll, Jan Postma, Mike Maloy, and Doug Cook. At 6-2, DeMoisey,
the shortest of the starters, will play the point position. "He is a fine shooter and will bring the ball
upcourt and be our playmaker," Holland said. While in high school he was named to the All-Northern Kentucky and All-Regional
cage teams.

High School All-American Jerry Kroll will man one of the wing slots. "Kroll is a hard-nosed defensive player," Holland said,
"and a good shooter and ball handler. So far he has developed more than any other freshman we've ever had."
Kroll was a unanimous choice for All-State honors in Texas last year and was tapped for All-American by Scholastic Coach
magazine. Some sports authorities labeled him one of the best basketball players Texas has ever produced.

Holding down the other wing will be Jan Postma, whom Holland described as "a hustler and scrapper on defense." "He
has really been looking good lately," Holland added. Last year Postma averaged 26 points a game and was All-State in
Florida.

Doug Cook will play one of the point posts. The 6-6, 200-pounder from Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J., won All-State and All-American honors
in high school and was cited by Holland as "the best rebounder we've ever had. He has both strength and
good moves under the boards."

The tallest man on the squad is pivot man Mike Maloy. The 6-7 cage ace from Queens, N.Y., was described
as "real quick for his size," by Holland. "He’s a great jumper," he added, "and does a tremendous job on
blocking shots. Nobody could score a lay-up on him." Maloy hauled down 21 rebounds each game last season and was
named to the All-Queens cage team.

The ‘Kittens boast strength in depth this year, with several back-up men at nearly every position. Randy Jones, Ben Moore,
and Rick Barton serve as point men, while Johnny Baker, Scott Davis, Calvin Murphy, and John Tolle add depth to
the wings. At the pivot will be reservists Davis Liles, Jim Long, and Kent Rhodes.

Holland praised all his reserves for their talent, hustle, and desire. Desire is a cornerstone of the Kitten attack this
year. "We’re here to play and we'll win a lot of games," said Kroll. "We have the best combination of
size and speed of any team we play."

"We ought not to lose any games this year," Postma added, "if we can just live up to our potential."

WILDKITTENS 1966-67
Front Row (l-r): Kroll, Barton, Murphy, Tolle, Rhodes, Baker
Back Row: Davis, Jones, DeMoisey, Liles, Long
