SNAAANS \ NON Midwinters ’66 N eS eS Ch fa De er HavuiNsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1966 WEATHER FORECAST Mostly cloudy and cool through Saturday with a chance of rain Saturday. Cloudy and cool with rain likely Sunday and little change in temperature. Low tonight 34. High Saturday 48. NUMBER EIGHTEEN — ——— (Staff Photo by Thel) CHAPLAIN TERRY COUNSELS STUDENT Plans “Continued involvement” With Students Will Terry Accepts Call From College Church Rev. Will H. Terry, Davidson chaplain, has accepted the call from the Davidson College Presbyterian Church to fill the pulpit vacated by Rev. Curtis P. Harper. The Pulpit Committee, moderated by William Ward, first contacted Terry in January. The congregation approved the committee’s proposal Sunday. President D. Grier Martin was not available for comment on the school’s plan for replacing Terry. However, Terry indicated that he plans to continue as chaplain through the school year, filling both roles until the college has time to select a new chaplain. Terry has already met with the Religious Life Committee to discuss the duties of chaplain, in preparation for the selection of his replacement. Terry pointed out that even after a new chaplain is selected, he intends to continue to participate in the life of the college and the life of students by following his policy of visiting dormitories and welcoming students in his home. Terry stressed that one of the reasons for his accepting the new position was his “interest in students personally, and continued involvement with them will enable them to be brought more into the life of the church.” Terry will deliver his first sermon as the new pastor March 13. He also will speak at Vespers Sunday night on the marriage ceremony. Two Juniors Compete For Social Council Post Vince Foster and Bill Kendrick were the only students appearing before a meeting of the Social Council to have their candidacy as next year’s Social Council chairman approved. The Council met Monday night to screen all interested candidates. After brief statements by Foster and Kendrick, Council member John Bailey moved to accept both as candidates, and his motion carried unanimously. Dan Campbell gave them the specifications for their platforms, which will appear in next week's DAVIDSONIAN. The election had originally been scheduled for Tuesday, but because of the possibility of many students not receiving THE DAVIDSONIAN this weekend, the election was postponed until the following Tuesday, March 1. Campbell explained that the reason for the early election was to begin work on next year’s social program. He also said that the new chairman needs experience in the mechanics of booking and carrying out the details of a weekend. Student Body Approves Constitutional Changes By overwhelming majorities, the student body approved all three proposed amendments to the Student Body Constitution in Tuesday’s referendum. As a result of passage of the first proposed amendment, Article V, Section 5 of the Student Body Constitution now reads: “Trial procedure shall be determined by the Honor Court and made available to the student body. “This shall include an investigation committee of three members elected by the student body who shall perform their duties as prescribed in the Honor Court procedure.” SECOND AMENDMENT Article VII, Section 5 of the Constitution, the subject of the second proposed amendment, now reads: “Every student found guilty of violating any section of this Article shall ordinarily be dismissed from the college.” The passage of the third proposed amendment changes Article II, Section 2 of the Student Body Constitution to read: “The purpose of the Honor Court shall be to encourage and maintain the honor of the student body. “Since Davidson strives to be a Christian college and thus recognizes both a concern for understanding and compassion as well as for justice and honor, the Court shall implement its purpose through instilling in the student body an awareness of the basic principles of honor, through administering the Honor System, and through enforcing its decisions as it sees fit in the light of each individual case.” COUNTS Vote counts on the amendments were 377 for, 12 against; 382 for, 19 against; and 371 for, 28 against, respectively, for the three amendments. George Kuykendall, originator of a petition which was influential in proposing the three amendments, said he was “real happy” the amendments passed. Kuykendall said he felt the new amendments do not weaken, but broaden, the system. They eliminate a “rigid, legalistic, Old Testament flavor” which characterized the old honor system, Kuykendall said. INCREASED DIFFICULTY Kuykendall also stated that the Honor Court's job has now been made more difficult since they must now decide not only the guilt or innocence of a defendant but also his sentence. Bill Council, student body president, said that the changes “will not enable justice to be carried out better than in the old system but will enable the Honor Court to work more smoothly.” In further explaining this, Council said that he felt the Honor Court in the past has done a fine job of judging each case individually, considering extenuating circumstances and using compassion in pronouncing sentences; however, the changes should, Council said, enable the Honor Court to do so more easily. NICHOLS Eric Nichols, senior member of the Honor Court, was in agreement with Council as he said the changes bring the “letter of the law more in line with the spirit of the law.” Kuykendall, Council and Nichols all emphasized that they felt the amendments will not weaken the Honor System nor weaken the deterrent effect of the Honor System punishments. ‘Work With Administration’ By JOHNNY CLARK Davidsonian Associate Editor “I work with the administration,” answered Davidson's Athletic Director Tom Scott this week in reply to statements last week by Dr. Paul Marrotte, chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, that the charging of students for tickets to the last two coliseum basketball games is in violation of an agreement made last year with the committee. “The Athletic Committee,” continued Dr. Scott, “doesn’t have anything to do with determining prices. Their authority is over scheduling and that sort of thing. “They can recommend, but they cannot set a policy. The administration and the Trustees set the policy. This is who we work with.” Dr. Marrotte agreed that the faculty committee cannot set the price policy for the game. “But,” added the professor, “over the past three years, the faculty committee has approved the schedule and the number of games at the coliseum in return for the granting of good seating and free admission to students while school is in session." He stated that the “interest of the student comes first in the consideration of the committee.” Dr. Scott asserted that the statement made at the committee Feb. 4, 1965, which said that tickets to coliseum games are “free when school isIn session, but are half-price during recess,’ was merely a review of the situation that year and that “we were certainly not setting a policy about future coliseum games.”

‘HE APPROVED IT’

“That is just the way it happened last year,” he commented. “We sent a memo to President D. Grier Martin last November informing him of our proposal for this year and he approved it. The faculty committee has nothing to do with it.”

In defense of charging students for admission, Dr. Scott pointed out that “in the past, we have given students tickets to 10 games. This year there were nine games in the coliseum, counting the Invitational Tournament over the holidays.

“Students got free admission to seven games in the gymnasium, plus the Wake Forest, Marquette, and West Virginia games in the coliseum. In addition, the ones who were here over Christmas got free tickets to the William and Mary game as sort of a bonus.”

Students were able to pay half-price for the other games over the holidays (Ohio U. and two tournament games) and for the NYU and St. Joseph's games.

‘OUT OF A HAT’

Asked why he felt 10 games was the number students should get free, Scott admitted that he “just pulled this out of a hat, I guess,” but added that “normally we won’t have more than 10 home games.”

Scott said that the purpose of students paying was “to try to help us out on the budget.”

“Also,” he noted, “we play St. Joe on a 50-50 basis, and they won't come down here if we fill the place with complimentary tickets. (Out of 8,500 people at the St. Joe game, 200 were students.) If we play up there, the kids will have to miss two days of school.

“Something that students don’t realize is that we have a lot better setup than a lot of places. At Duke and Carolina they only get to go to half the games, and at West Virginia students have only one day to pick up their tickets.”

Noting that although students pay a $100 activities fee at Davidson, Scott pointed out that “counting basketball and football games and including opportunities to buy at half-price, students easily get $50 worth of admissions.

“And we don't get any specified amount per student from that fee, anyway,” he added.

Committee Chairman Marrotte also remarked to THE DAVIDSONIAN this week that “faculty and other employees are being given advantages which rightfully belong to students only — the free admission to basketball games. I think the faculty and other employees should expect to pay for the better seats at all coliseum games.

‘STUDENTS SUFFER’

“The students suffer from the ‘free’ privileges given to other employees.”

In reference to this proposal, Scott stated: “Although few schools give the faculty free tickets, the administration feels that this is a fringe benefit for the faculty and employees, and if he (Marrotte) wants to pay for tickets he is free to do so.”

Attendance figures released for coliseum games while school was in session this year show “probably around 400” at the season opener with Wake Forest, 494 students at the Marquette game, 919 at the pre-exams West Virginia game, 304 at the Saturday game with NYU, and 200 at Tuesday’s game with nationally-ranked St. Joe.

“The last two games were attended just about as well as the free ones,” observed Scott.

Faculty To Reconsider Social Life Proposals

DICK DAVY Tonight's Headliner Jazz Trio Kicks Off Weekend

Hundreds of beautiful dates and the anticipation of concerts, parties, and a weekend of pleasure brought a long-awaited smile to the waterlogged Davidson campus as Midwinters finally arrived.

The Ramsey Lewis Trio and comedian Dick Davy will start the festivities rolling tonight with a concert from 8 to 10:30. Fraternity parties and a dance in Chambers’ basement featuring the Collegiates Combo from Greensboro will follow. Afterwards, from 2:30 to 3:30 a.m., a breakfast will be served in the Union.

Tomorrow afternoon a juke box will be playing in the snack bar area of the Union. A “Cartoon Caravan,” featuring “The Road Runner,” will begin in the Morrison Room at 2:30. The main cafeteria of the Union will be converted into a restaurant for supper from 5:30 to 7 p.m. Lloyd Price, “Mr. Personality,” will be featured at the Social Council dance tomorrow night at the Lake Norman House of Music from 8 to 12.

Dan Campbell, Social Council chairman, emphasized that everyone will be required to present a Davidson ID card or a ticket at the door. The guest tickets are being sold in the Union.

Campbell also pointed out that the faculty rule on drinking will also be in effect. The rule prohibits all students from possessing or being under the influence of alcohol while attending any function off campus which is sponsored by the college.

Cloudy and cool weather was forecast by the Weather Bureau. Ironically, the forecast made no mention of the prospect of snow for the weekend.

(Staff Photo by Thel)

ATHLETIC DIRECTOR TOM SCOTT No Deals For Students At the Ticket Window