FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1966

READINGS By BOB REID Assistant Sports Editor

Dr. Tom Scott has announced plans for blacktopping “at least half” of the present baseball field to make room for much-needed parking facilities. The proposed paving is one of the recommended changes in the physical plant suggested by the Self-Study Evaluation Report. However, informed sources tell THE DAVIDSONIAN that this is only the first step in a massive plan to turn the entire campus into a giant parking lot.

“This summer we plan to begin paving the new baseball field,” our source announced. “The athletic office was a bit reluctant to pave over the baseball field so soon after its completion, but after careful study and evaluation, we decided that the student body wouldn’t care anyway, since nobody ever watches baseball games. Also, the paved parking area would be a great place to take a date!”

When asked if the asphalt diamond might make base running a bit hazardous, the informer shrugged, “We don’t think that problem will ever arise.”

RICHARDSON PAVING PLANNED

“Richardson Field offers all kinds of possibilities for parking areas,” he continued. “During games, we can park cars around the field and then ask spectators to turn on their lights for night games. The saving on the electrical bills might even pay another instructor’s salary.”

“Playing on a paved field might conceivably result in a few rule changes,” he added, “like a mandatory aid count for tackled runners. Anyhow, the contact will be good for muscle tones. If too many injuries result, we can always turn the field into a giant handball court.”

Once the athletic fields have been paved, infinite possibilities for parking lots still remain. “The Assistant Dean contracted the Young Paving Company to re-do the Patterson Court area last year, but we decided to table these plans for future use. Certain faculty representatives have told us to hang onto the plans for a few more years.”

“Somebody suggested paving the Lingle Manor property, but the faculty demanded that we respect the sanctity of such a vital and useful facet of campus life. They suggested we use the literary society halls instead. (Manor representative David Weems was available for unprintable comment.)”

POSSIBILITIES ENDLESS

Our source continued to show us that the Davidson property has more possibilities for spaces than the Mecklenburg Hotel. “Think of the possibilities,” he shrieked. “We could tear down some useless building like Cunningham Hall and pave it over the very next day. The students would never notice the change.”

“Our ambitions don't stop there either,” he harangued. “As soon as they do away with compulsory Vespers, we'll have plenty of space west of the Dana Building. There’s plenty of room on front campus between Chambers and downtown Davidson, although I understand that the Hill has plans to convert that area into the Charlie Scott Memorial Park if he signs here, or a cemetery for Coach Driesell if he goes elsewhere.”

“We thought about sticking one car in the Rare Book Room, but we decided to build a handball court there instead.”

“The drill field will accommodate dozens of cars,” drooled the informer. “As soon as Dan Mombrea gets rid of compulsory ROTC, we should get all the space we need.”

“After we exhaust all those possibilities, we may be a little pushed for additional space,” pondered our informer. “But personally, I’m not worried. By the time the athletic department has paved all those areas, the freshman dorms will have collapsed from decay!”

* * * * * *

Congratulations to Harry’s Foglemen, who are on their way to another conference title. If golf tops the conference too, that will make three conference titles for the Wildcats this year!

* * *

Quote of the week: From an Elon trackster gazing at Fred Hetzel’s trophies in Johnston Gym, “Fred Hetzel eh, did he go here?”

MACHI “JOE DON LOONEY” HAYNES TAKES BIG SWING

Umpire Is Billy Thebaut; Catcher, KA Tommy Hunter

KA’S KEEP PACE

Beta-Ballers Pace IMAC Through Thursday’s Tilts

The “unusual” dominated this week’s IMAC competition as the Betas held on to first place and the envy-monster crawled on to the KA’s because of it. The KA's have only to see the Betas get dumped once to knot their records at 8-1. The SPE’s who had followed them opened the gates as the once defeated E’s charged into third with their 4-1 record.

Besides having to play between the rains, almost all the competitors had to cope with a swarm of mistakes. The weirdest boner came in the KA-Machi game as Bruce Weihe hit into a bases-loaded triple play (attributed partially to typical sterling Machi running) which thwarted an upset effort in the seventh inning. The KA's, who also dumped the Pikas, 9-7, and the Indies, 14-5, claim they’re starting to roll despite Tommy Hunter's zero hits for his last 11 bats.

The Kappa Sigs used P Tower's golden glove and Arnie Goodstein’s ‘fierce’ bat to put down the winless Independents 10-5 earlier in the week. “It was significant,” quipped a Sig, “that Goodstein was hitless and fanned twice in that game.”

Thinclads Finish High

The ‘Cat thinclads tied for fourth place in a field of 19 schools in the eighth annual Davidson Relays here Saturday, but the Buccaneers of East Tennessee stole the day. East Tennessee ran away from the field, amassing 74 points to second place High Point's 40. During the course of the day, seven meet records were broken, six of them by East Tennessee. New records were set in the distance medley relay, high jump, 440 relay, 880 relay, pole vault, discus, and sprint medley. Of these records, only the pole vault, won by East Carolina, was not set by the Buccaneers.

Coach Heath Whittle expressed pleasure at the overall running of the meet. “We hope to continue to have such a nice turnout for the Relays. Everything ran very smoothly, and I was pleased with the caliber of the Relays officials at the meet. I was well pleased with the way things worked.”

Asked how the meet went in relation to his expectations, Whittle said, “It was just about like I thought, considering all the injuries we have had during the season. East Tennessee was just too strong. I think we'll be in the running again next year, having won it six of eight times.”

Whittle admitted that the balance of the field was getting stronger each year and that without East Tennessee there would have been a real dog fight. East Carolina nosed out Davidson with 25 points to grab third place honors with the ‘Cats matching P C with 24.

Tomorrow, the Whittlemen, boasting a 3-1 dual and triangular meet record, will meet The Citadel in their last competition at Richardson Field this year.

ONLY BASEBALL WIN

Kittens Clobber CMA Twice

By YATES FAISON Davidsonian Assistant Sports Editor

The Wildkitten baseballers waited until their final turn at bat this year to delete the “winless” tag from their record, defeating Carolina Military Academy, 3-0, Tuesday afternoon. Clutch hits by Ray Logan, Bob Apgar, and Dave Fearnbach plus heads-up baserunning produced a three-run rally in the sixth to break a scoreless tie and net the 3-0 win. Mackey Reavis twirled a two-hitter to earn the shutout win despite a sore arm.

COACH PLEASED

Coach Tom Stevens expressed pleasure in the season’s finale, labeling Reavis’ job “the first shutout I can remember — including the varsity — in quite a while. Mackey did real well pitching a two-hitter. He and (Bill) Love are going to have to make it as varsity pitchers.”

The big rally began with a walk to Ronny Brown, who went on to second on a balk and dented the plate following Logan’s sharp double to left-center. Apgar followed with a solid single to right, plating Logan with an insurance run, and alertly raced all the way to third during a bit of confusion. Fearnbach’s single scored Apgar with the clincher.

LITTLE CHANCE TO PRACTICE

Coach Stevens was happy at the prospects for next year but lamented the lack of opportunity for practice this year. “Several boys can help the varsity if they work at it. The lack of practice time and facilities hurt us, along with weather interference. Next year both teams (varsity and freshman) will have practice space.”

Apgar echoed Stevens’ sentiments. “I don’t believe the team lived up to its potential. We had a better team than we showed, but due to lack of practice, we didn’t perform as well as we could have.”we never had much chance to develop.” Stevens praised Logan as a hitting prospect, Hank Strickland for his catching potential, Frank Murphy, “a good outfield, but must improve his hitting,” and his infielders and pitching staff.

RUNNERS TAKE SECOND

Coach Heath Whittle’s freshman track squad placed second in a three-way meet here Tuesday, falling to Gardner-Webb, 63-45, while besting Carolina Military Academy, 45-33.

“We could have won over Gardner-Webb,” explained Whittle, “but Greg Cox was on the injury list, having been hurt in football practice, and could only compete in the broad jump. We could have had four more firsts.” Whittle was especially pleased with the performance of George Rogister, who turned in a time of 15.9 seconds in the low hurdles. Rogister led the Davidson freshmen with eight points in the meet. Whittle also cited Wayne Huckel in the javelin, Eddie Rice in the 440 and Mike Moats in the 880.

By JOEL KEYS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Clemson Match

By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Yesterday afternoon the Wildcats journeyed into the Clemson Tiger lair and left licking their wounds from a 7-2 setback. Peter Parrott in the singles and the doubles team of Dick Hurd and Woody Faulk salvaged the only victories of the afternoon. However, according to Coach Harry Fogleman, the final score “did not indicate the closeness of the contest. Six of the matches went three sets, and we won the first set in five of those.”

Rain handicapped the Davidson efforts. “They have soft courts with no base—like ours—so the match was shifted to asphalt courts. They were about the fastest I've ever seen.”

HAPPIER DAYS

But the weather was pleasant, the hospitality congenial and the competition exacting, and the results of VMI's tournament last weekend had a familiar, predictable ring to them. Davidson College's tennis team easily beat the host Keydets, George Washington, and West Virginia, serving notice to the conference members that they again intend to dominate the tournament at the close of the season.

A couple of weeks ago, in looking forward to these three matches, Coach Fogleman had asserted that the Wildcat hopes of retaining conference laurels lay in the stern challenge they offered. VMI was playing on its own courts, GW possessed a strong team, and the West Virginia people considered their netmen to be as good as any recent Mountaineer squad. But desire, confidence, and depth supplied the impetus for Davidson to march in quick time through the three-day affair, emerging victorious in all but one of the twenty-seven decisions. Only Bill Council lost, dropping a singles match to his GW opponent.

GOOD PERFORMANCE

Coach Fogleman cited everyone for good performances. “We just overpowered all three. George Washington was the best team we faced, but we still lost only 10 games to them in all. It was the same way with the others. We have depth, with good players all the way down.”

“This deal was just a round-robin in which VMI invited three teams. I was well pleased with our performance, but winning this easily does not assure winning the conference tournament. GW, especially, will give us a rough time.”

TOUGH ROAD AHEAD

In the coming week, the Wildcats will venture outside the conference and into rugged competition. Tomorrow they entertain Emory University, whose team last year forced a long, hard match for the ‘Cats. On Monday they travel South to trade volleys with a Gamecock squad composed mainly of scholarship boys. After hosting Erskine on Tuesday, Davidson will entertain the Blue Devils of Duke Thursday.

PAGE FIVE

Cat Linksters Sink State, Fall To Wake Forest, 13-8

The Wildcat golfers defeated N. C. State Friday, April 15, but lost only their second match of the season as Wake Forest was victorious Tuesday.

The ‘Cats played host to N. C. State at the Charlotte Country Club and won their fifth match of the season. Champ Covington shot a 75 to tie with Gealy of the Wolfpack for medalist honors in the 13½-7½ home-team victory.

The tide turned as the ‘Cats dropped a match, 13-8, at Wake Forest. Three Deacons ended in a three-way tie for medalist honors, each shooting 70's. Champ Covington and George Leight followed with 73's. Dr. Tom Scott said that despite the loss, the Davidson team “had a more consistent score than they had had previously.”

Monday the Cedarwood Country Club will be the scene of a match against South Carolina's Gamecocks. Tuesday the ‘Cats will seek revenge against Wake Forest in another match at Cedarwood. Duke will visit Friday for a match on the Charlotte C. C. course.

Individually, Joe Jelks leads the Davidson team in scoring with 10½ points. He has twice hit 70 in matches and also leads the 'Cats with a 73.4 stroke average in the five contests. Champ Covington and John Giles both have added 9½ points to the Davidson cause. Covington is averaging 76.8 and Giles, 77.

Walt Daniel has scored 7½ points this year and is averaging 78.8. George Leight, who has been in only three matches, and Doug McKeever have contributed seven points each, averaging 75.7 and 76.4 respectively. George Brewer, who is averaging 78 strokes per match, has scored two points this season.

May 10-11 the team will travel to Pinehurst, where they will compete in the Southern Conference Tournament.

Basemen Split With Eagles, Fall To Belmont Abbey, 5-1

The Wildcat Batmen came alive Saturday and did something a Davidson baseball team had not been able to do before: They beat the Georgia Southern Eagles, and did it in fine fashion, 9-3, but dropped the second game, 6-2.

Howard Bryan picked up his third win of the season, going the distance and allowing only five hits, all singles. Skip Waite and Tom Clayton banged two hits apiece for the ‘Cats, while Jim Hyder, Bryant Hinnant, and Eagles to take a pitch. He gave up five runs on six hits in the first inning. Of the hits, one was a double and the other a home run by shortstop Ken Szotkiewicz. Coach Stevens bowed his neck and left Elliott in to finish the game. The Eagles managed five more hits and one more run. The Wildcat bats could muster only two runs, both on Dave King's double to left-center in the first inning. The team managed only five hits in the game and fell to defeat, 6-2. The high spot in the game came in the seventh inning when player-manager scorekeeper Pete Caldwell pinch-hit for Elliott.

BELMONT WINS, 5-1

Wednesday the team traveled to Belmont to do battle with the Abbey's Crusaders. Buddy Durham, Henry Wilmer and Bryan saw mound action for the ‘Cats, with Durham being charged with a tough loss, 5-1. The big men with the bats for Davidson were Smith and Waite, who both went two for four at the plate. Hyder added a “wanger” to his collection to give the ‘Cats a total of five hits. Waite drove in the only run with a towering double to left field in the eighth inning. The downfall of the team was failure to hit with men on base, as they left 13 men on the sacks. Crusader righthander Bob Pogachink was the winning pitcher, going the full nine. But he threw an unbelievable 174 pitches, nearly twice the average number.

CITADEL SATURDAY

Saturday the ‘Cats, now sporting an 8-17 slate, head for Charleston, S. C., to take on The Citadel's Bulldogs. Coach Stevens explained, “They’ve been doing pretty well, but it’s hard to tell about this Southern Conference. We're all just about together in wins and losses—there have been a lot of upsets.” As for a scouting report, he said, “All I know is that they are supposed to have one real good pitcher. But we'll have to see.” The Citadel beat VMI 3-2 and 1-0, while the ‘Cats beat VMI 6-5 and lost 2-1. This would indicate some close games and some good baseball in store. Next Tuesday Belmont Abbey will be at Davidson to give the ‘Cats a chance for revenge before they embark on a four-day journey to West Virginia and William and Mary.

“because there is a difference”

NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
MILWAUKEE

offers FINANCIAL PLANNING for COLLEGE MEN

Your future starts the day you plan for it and sound planning starts with a call to:

R. T. STONE
North Main Street—Davidson
892-1424