PAGE FOUR

Bondanella Advocates, ‘Stress Social Science’

You spent last year in France in the Junior Year Abroad Program. With the experience of another educational system behind you, how would you modify Davidson’s general educational approach?

“Well, let’s begin with my major, political science. There are just two people in the department and they simply can’t give enough course offerings. I'm just lucky that what they offer is what I am interested in.

“But take this semester—I’m doing research in African studies and Marxist political theory and there’s not much in the library. The professors are doing what they can, but I can’t buy all the books I need nor can I run up to Chapel Hill every weekend.

“Actually this particular problem of mine points to something bigger. I think Davidson needs a stronger emphasis on the social sciences. There ought to be a better balance between the normative and behaviorist approaches—between theory and practice, though that is not quite exact.

“There are many possibilities, a lot of them centered on a problem approach that would link disciplines, say through more team teaching. I’d like to know more, for instance, of the effects of cybernetics or psychology on politics.

“If nothing else I think every student should know something of the foundations of the social sciences and human behavior. Can this study be made into a science, as such? Who are the main theorists? Most of us simply don’t know much about it. You need to know the basic terms if nothing else.

“Economics probably does a better job of introducing this study than most other courses. The introductory course is really an introduction to the nature of economics. But look at political science: the introductory course is American government. It is an excellent course, but it would seem better to learn the principles and methodology of the field of political science before beginning a specific, substantive approach.”

REPORT SENIOR PERSPECTIVES

Three of the top five students scholastically in the senior class were selected by THE DAVIDSONIAN recently to offer candid opinions of Davidson as they near the end of four years of studies here. This special DAVIDSONIAN Report was supervised by Rufus Adair, DAVIDSONIAN Associate Editor.

Williams Looks ‘Monastery Without Courage’

Perhaps this question should be saved until last but what in a few words in your general overall view characterizes Davidson College?

“In a favorite phrase of mine, it is a monastery without courage.”

Exactly what do you mean by that?

“Davidson is isolated geographically, religiously and intellectually the way a monastery is. But a monastery realizes the value of its differences. Davidson, however, succumbs to outside pressure.”

A couple of years ago a Davidson graduate spoke here and raised a question that might have bearing on what you were just saying. Why do you think so relatively few Davidson graduates become active politicians, especially on the state level?

“Most Davidson men go into a profession, and as a doctor or a lawyer or what-have-you, they can and do exert positive social concern in politics. But many of them, however, like the old Davidson idea of staying out of controversy and of trying to do things behind the scenes. Others, unfortunately, like everything the way it is.

To change the subject and to get a little more specific, what is your opinion on the educational program at Davidson? What about survey courses?

“I never liked them.”

You were in the humanities program; what are your views on it?

“It should be drastically reorganized. The course does not necessarily have to be presented in a chronological line, and neither is this method even desirable.

“The idea of the course, that is, getting away from a separation of courses, is a good one. It’s just that I think the form could be changed to a ‘problem method’ with an emphasis on the way ideas are good, the way they conflict in their application.

“There is a difference in what an idea is now and what it was, or at least what its implications were, in its formative stages. This method is usually used only to discuss the French and industrial revolutions.

“Liberal arts colleges are usually wound up on traditional studies, and these usually are then chronological. Davidson is fascinated with it. Ideas don’t become abstractions because of the passage of time; tradition is not unified because it was in the past.

“We usually wind up talking about the things that were left over and forget the conflict from which it evolved.”

In a more general sense than the humanities program, what do you feel about team teaching?

“The idea of team teaching is not so pressing here as at a larger school where disciplines and even various departments are more isolated from each other. Here you are not so liable to be caught with a bunch of specialists—say, electrical engineers—for four years.”

Now that you bring it up, do you think that the sciences are properly understood by liberal arts majors and vice-versa?

“I would have to say that few realize the implications and the relationships between the two. We have only one course in the philosophy of science, and then something mentioned in humanities.

“Again a problem approach would be good—say in military or transportation applications alone. Why, you could study four years alone on the faith of present-day people in science, moral problems of scientists, assumptions in present technology, the effects of government money, grants, the very way science operates. Much of this is hardly more than mentioned around here.”

There is a lot of talk now concerning compulsory vespers. What do you feel about this issue?

“As isolated as we are, the college should be relatively free of public attention; it should be able to experiment more, but it is often overwhelmed by its conception of public pressure. This is much of the problem in compulsory vespers.

“Davidson is concerned with operating a friction-free institution. I think they ought to worry more about the curriculum than vespers. Anybody that thinks we gain anything is kidding himself. I gain nothing spiritually from enforced worship.

“As far as Christian commitment is concerned I think that ‘a free Christian college’ is a contradiction in terms and is certainly a contradiction in practice here.

“I don't want to seem entirely negative, but criticism is what you want, isn't it? Let me just throw in a couple more for the record.

“Something still has to be done with the fraternity situation. I'd rather have locals than discrimination. The only advantage to a national fraternity is that you don’t have to pick out three people to be your friends for life.”that neither a Christian nor a scholar nor a businessman could say that the purpose of an institution is friction-free operation regardless of what happens. “Specifically, I have no complaint as long as vespers is not mandatory: this simply can’t be defended on religious grounds in this day and time. It brings the students back on Sundays, and it might help hold the school together, but there are other ways to unify a school. “These and other like arguments don’t convince me. They tell me why it’s good to go to church, but telling me that I have to takes more arguments than that." In closing, how would you characterize the Davidson student? “Davidson as a school is small, isolated, and Southern and of course this has its effect. It cuts down on artistic, personal, and political divergencies, but all this is typical of most small schools. “Davidson students don't seem to recognize that things they do change their lives, and that they can do something about it. The sociable chatter that replaces thought and expression more at Davidson than at many other schools is of course not all bad. People need to chatter. But around here there is too little of anything else.”

FABULOUS DINING ~~ International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PITA MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Greek letters for yourself. “There's not much you can do about the isolated environment here, but the general attitude is still puritanical — like we are hidden from the sins of the world, from a ‘creeping hedonism.’ Everything that happens here is twenty years late; there seems to be little moral leadership. By the time we do something, everybody else has done it, too. In 1962 even the University of Mississippi had Negro students. “I might also add a comment about our student leadership. It has always seemed to me that the student council is afraid really to fight for the students’ interests. A typical example is the recent drinking issue—the two presentations of the proposed amendment were so biased in favor of administration attitudes (and so diametrically opposed to student opinion) that one can only infer that student government is pretty well under the hill’s thumb. “Like I said, it's not all bad, but Davidson has its faults. I've gotten a good education. The faculty-student relationship is good. I guess I've gotten as much out of that as anything else. There are obvious benefits in a small community.”

Cramming Mr. PERMANENT PRESS SES Shirts and Slacks of FORTREL® and cotton From dawn to discotheque, they’re really with it...Permanently pressed 50% Fortrel polyester and 50% cotton make Mr. Wrangler your best buddy from early classes to just-one-more-frug at midnight...and they're guaranteed for one year’s normal wear. They stay like new forever. In a full range of colors and styles, SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE FOR FAMOUS MR. WRANGLER SHIRTS & SLACKS or write Mr. Wrangler Wrangler 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10002

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1966

Clark Views Vespers As Lecture On Religion

A few weeks ago you were quoted in a DAVIDSONIAN article as being in favor of retaining the vespers program. Would you care to comment further on that? “Yes. Ideally, I see vespers as an opportunity to get good religious speakers on campus. I think that today the best thought in the world is in drama and theology, and I had rather see vespers serve as a lecture on religion rather than a worship service, though such services should be made available. “Religion is of ultimate concern as long as it is not centered on dogma. I can’t see anything repugnant in this form of vespers and with this view in mind, I was in favor of the council resolution. “Davidson can justify legislating exposure to religious thought, though not to obligatory worship service. Davidson has an obligation to make available religious exercises, classroom studies, and organized services, and I think that we could get rid of compulsory vespers without altering our religious commitment.”

Do you think it necessary for Davidson to have such a commitment? “Rather than have Davidson ape the northern secular schools, I think there is something unique in having both high academic standards and a religious commitment. And I don't think these two are mutually exclusive. I’m for maintaining this uniqueness: I don’t care anything about Davidson being North Carolina’s answer to Amherst."

As one active in student government, how do you explain the Davidson student’s apathy toward student politics? “In comparison with a state university this question is invalid. Often as not, student politics is merely a platform or a practice for the state capital. “Though in another sense you can compare them. Student government here does not really know what its powers and power are. They are not a useful foil to the faculty. “Yet when I think of the liquor changes and so forth that have come about in the past few years, maybe that statement isn’t true. Maybe the problem is that the students themselves don’t realize the work of the council. Perhaps then they would vote more carefully: right now the majority votes on a basis other than competency.”

Do you foresee any changes in this pattern? “It could easily happen. In the past the student body was more homogeneous than it is now; today we have a greater cross-section. I think a tonic effect would be for some visionaries to run for office—someone who is highly dissatisfied, someone who has a bigger grasp of Davidson's social and educational problems. The real issues aren’t just chapel cuts and NSA. “In short, I would say student politics are dull for two reasons: 1) candidates are uniform, and 2) issues just aren't real issues.”

You are the only science major that is being interviewed here. Do you feel that the average science major has a sufficient liberal education? “The ‘pre-med mind’ is a term used disparagingly by the campus ‘Young Turks’ and to an extent I agree with them. Often a pre-med major has minimal interests and is not very inquisitive outside his field. In many cases, he is just a ‘grade-grubber’. Maybe one solution would be to do away with the pre-med major entirely. “At the same time, this criticism is valid only if made with some awareness of the physical time a pre-med spends in lab. “Then too, the cause of this criticism is not so much Davidson's as it is pressure from graduate school and the tastes of the individual student. There is a course offered in the philosophy of science.”

For a non-science major, what do you think of substituting a general history and theory of science course for the present requirement? “On first impression, it sounds very appealing, but it is very likely that much of what I consider necessary lab work would be omitted. The idea on the whole is good, even more so for the pre-med. He needs to be able to get away from the compartmentalized and the detailed if he is to escape the charge ‘body mechanic’. “The more I think about such a course, the more I like it. Perhaps they could perform a series of the more simple classical experiments.”

What do you see as Davidson’s main problem? “Quite simply it is that of definition. We need to define athletic policy. We need to decide our admissions policy. Should sons of alumni have preferential status? This question is not presented to argue for one side or the other, but to demonstrate the need for decision. “Perhaps the self-study has some of the answers: I don’t know. If we want to produce competent leaders for our area, let's not have delusions. If Davidson is going to accept the implication of the Ford grant, it must take the good with the bad.

CHICKEN Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches Daily Food Specials TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING Small and Large PIZZAS 50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS Eat Under Tropical Palms