**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1966

Letter Misplaced

A minor point in the aftermath of last week's Trustee meeting has come out. In the President's Report to the
Board, the business manager reports that a total of $175,000 will be spent on improvements to the athletic facilities, primarily
on Richardson Field. We were somewhat amazed at this figure, in light of a DAVIDSONIAN article of May 21, 1965,
reporting on the $50,000 Richardson Foundation Grant which made the improvements possible. The grant was to be awarded contingent on
the college raising a matching amount for use in stadium repairs. At that time there was apparent confusion as to
what the money would be used for. Football Coach Homer Smith, Athletic Director Tom Scott, and Trustee representative to the
Athletic Council Tom Sparrow were reported as expressing uncertainty as to what use would be made of the funds. The
most specific things that could be mentioned were the needs for stadium lighting and a “pretty little field,” to be
effected by the addition of some red and white trimming.

Not only is the $175,000 figure somewhat different from the original one of $100,000, we think it a little excessive.
No one denies the need for athletic improvement, but certain measures must be given priority, and such athletic modifications are
not among the most pressing needs of the college. In the same report, Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston points
to the increasingly stiff competition with other institutions in the recruitment of faculty members. Five departments here are in need
of permanent faculty members, and recruitment is becoming more difficult. The reasons cited by Dean Johnston for the lack of
interest of potential faculty members are the inadequacy of the library and heavy teaching loads. Neither of these shortcomings can
be remedied without sacrifice, and it seems that one of the best places to start would be in the area
of unnecessary physical improvements. It is ironic that the paragraph following the $175,000 figure notes that $20,000 have been used
in improving library facilities, a paltry sum compared with the athletic improvements. Furthermore, if improvements are to be made in
the existing athletic facilities, we would urge them to be directed towards the equipment which would be used by the
student body at large, rather than that which would benefit the relative few engaged in intercollegiate sports. The bulk of
the expenditures have gone for such items as replacing the stadium seats and building public restrooms, a dorm for visiting
teams, and a press box; all are items primarily for big-time intercollegiate spectator sports. This strikes us as an effort
to make Davidson something it isn't: a big-name intercollegiate sports power. The success this week of the golf and tennis
teams in sweeping the conference meets over their subsidized opponents presents quite a contrast with the headlines caused by a
single athlete's decision not to play basketball at Davidson. Athletics are fine, but they must be kept in the proper
perspective of a liberal arts institution.

Almost There

Davidson seems to have a way of almost making it to the big time. The Charlotte Observer reported this morning
that in a Wednesday speech President Johnson referred to Woodrow Wilson's studying at “a small college in North Carolina. He
went to classes every day beneath a portal which bore the inscription ‘Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen.’”
But no mention of the name of the school — a double insult since the President was speaking at Princeton,
the school that took Wilson in when the going got too tough at Davidson. We're reminded of a story in
the Saturday Evening Post several years ago which related that before studying at Oxford, Dean Rusk attended “a small liberal
arts college in North Carolina.” Period.

Where To Put The Cars

The perplexing question of where to put the cars on campus is a persistent problem that encourages no solution in
the immediate future. As the ultimate solution, we offer the plan adopted by the administration of Lawrence University in Appleton,
Wis.: Students there are simply forbidden to operate any motor vehicle on campus. There are several aspects which would make
such a plan attractive. Lawrence’s dean of men makes a fairly obvious point: Such a plan would end the mass
weekend exodus to nearby cities. “An important part of the students’ education,” says the dean, “is acquired in the dorms
on weekends and in leisure time, by a process of osmosis, in bull sessions for instance.” If the plan works
at Lawrence, a coed school, it should be doubly successful at Davidson, without the distractions of female companionship to distract
the student from such a vital part of his education as weekend bull sessions. But several Lawrence students have pointed
out that the ban on cars interferes with the student’s education in that it restricts his attendance at cultural events
in nearby cities such as Milwaukee and Madison. While this admittedly is a complication, we believe that no plan is
perfect and that for the sake of expediency the Davidson student will be willing to forego an occasional opera in
order to solve the pressing problem. The plan offers encouragement in another direction. One Lawrence faculty member points out that
it cuts down on the social advantage car owners have over non-owners. “Unfortunately, a red Cadillac can turn a girl’s
head,” he says. The problem at Davidson would be solved on two fronts: Not only would no one have a
red Cadillac, he would see no girl to show it to.

Keep On Pumping

Any other time it would have passed unnoticed. It was only a passing remark by the Rev. Carlyle Marney, Sunday’s
Vespers speaker. But with the year drawing to an end and exams staring us in the face, we thought it
especially appropriate that Mr. Marney advise us that “as long as there’s the slightest bit of hope, we pump.”

Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, ARCH McCALLUM, PAUL MARION

Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE, BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors: CHARLES McEWEN, KERN PARKER

Sports Editor: TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID

News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER

Feature Editor: LINDSAY DAVIS

Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER

Photographers: BILL OLSON, GEORGE PURVIS

Cartoonists: LOU HILL, BOB HOLLADAY, JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Bruce Weihe, Grey Pash, Jim Cooley, Mark Robinson, Rob Powell, John Williams, Chuck Green, Terry Sonnonstine, Rick
Mildner, Billy Farr, Kent Gladstone, Brodie Brown, Cameron Ferguson, Mike Bates, Carter Fussell, Al Varner, Ed Embree, Mike May, K.
D. Weeks, Cliff Duke, Charles Elliott, Joel Keys, John Wessell, Peter Guerrant, George Cretekos, Dick Richards, Ed Dwelle, Geoff Seamans.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Nine Tails

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON

Quo vadimus? Four years have sifted down to a few last weeks. Except for a very few, all of us
seniors face the prospects of graduate school, here or elsewhere. Among the more distinguished fellowships this year is the Robert
McNamara Fellowship to the University of South Viet Nam, soon to open a branch in the North. Several fortunate seniors
hold these awards. So where we are going is a topic best put aside for the moment. Perhaps it might
be more pertinent to see where we have been.

UNWORDED GOAL

Probably the unworded goal of us all was to have a successful college experience — growth and development in the
intellectual arena, the social scene, the athletic mark, and the religious experience. That Davidson stresses development of the whole person
is evident.

Vespers: 1966

From Associated College Press

Students and professors have been sticking their academic tongues out, saying “bleah!” to the university lately, says the Iowa State
Daily. The couldn’t-care-less sickness they all...suffer from is not sudden or unusual, but now during the post-midterm, pre-final period it’s
especially pronounced. It has afflicted even the most enthusiastically resistant. The symptoms are easy to detect. The professor looks out
onto a sea of blank faces and mechanically asks, “Are there any questions over this material?” And the class sits
vegetating, waiting for the professor to switch into low and continue with the next page of notes. Possibly, the funny
little guy who sits in the third row might raise his hand; whether he does or not, everyone sits expectantly,
waiting for him to come up with something. A professor might try a line of attack, if he feels at
all motivated, by making a distorted statement—a lie—just to get class feedback, punctuated with How-Does-That-Grab-You? written all over his face.
The challenge is greeted like a fuzzy sucker. Classroom attendance falls off by a third. Eight o’clocks look like an
incomplete study in sleep. Students become obsessed with Anything Unacademic. They complain of being 13 weeks behind; they say it’s
The Weather, it’s Spring Fever, it’s Being Close to Graduation. No one really cares what it is. Students settle back
and gaze at the professors and the professors gaze back at the students. Well, here we are...

Senior Reviews The Davidson Experience

In the intellectual area, the usual problems arise: most students are too apathetic to regard their classes and outside work
as anything more than a necessary nuisance; many professors conduct their classes in a manner guaranteed to kill enthusiasm in
all but the most determined students. The library is understocked, understaffed, underdeveloped, and not understood.

INTELLECTUAL MINGLING

But the aspect I want to single out here is the amount of intellectual fraternization—the mingling of students and professors
at Open Ends, guest lectures, over a cup of coffee, and the like. A pretty good indicator of the intellectual
enthusiasm on campus is how much of this intellectual fraternization is going on. During the past year, I took notes
to see what groups of students and professors showed up at a wide variety of campus events. As regards the
professors: In the humanities, there are many men who attend regularly a wide range of events, from athletic to musical.
Particularly certain men in the Philosophy, Bible, English, and History Departments should be singled out for their interest.

HALLUCINATION

With the exception of a few men in the sciences and the math departments, the sight of a man from
one of these departments at campus events is usually a hallucination. The men in the music and athletic departments, because
of the unusual time requirements of their jobs, were generally excluded from this survey—but few of these men are seen
outside their respective areas.

PHILOSOPHY MAJORS

What shocked me was that a student’s attendance and participation in intellectual events could be typed by his major, with
a few exceptions in every field. Proportionally, the participation award must go to the philosophy majors, who turn up at
everything from athletic meets to concerts. Close behind them come the Bible, English, and math majors. The history majors lagged
not far behind in overall participation. Surprisingly enough, the pre-meds and the business-economics majors were about even—both below the history
majors.

ENTHUSIASM

There is much more intellectual enthusiasm among students than many professors and professional critics realize. But there is still not
enough: Robert E. Lee speaking at Open End couldn’t draw more than 150 students and 5 professors, half of whom
turned up at the Union at the right time by accident.

THE SOCIAL SCENE

As far as the social scene is concerned, Davidson men have reputations for throwing good parties (what few they do
throw) and being good dates—if they're in fraternities. There are here also the usual problems regarding the fraternity system, the
location of the campus, the need to drink. Here many professors imagine students as being perpetually party-going, absent from school
on weekends. I find there is much, much less of this than expected. While a great many students go off
campus on weekends, this school as a suitcase college is not quite that.

CHARLOTTE

On any given weekend there are usually between six and seven hundred students who go no further than Charlotte and
who return to campus to sleep. The problem of getting students back to campus on Sunday night is grossly exaggerated.
Saturday and Sunday night are the prime date nights, but the majority of students leave campus for the entire weekend
an average of once per month—I would estimate.

APOLOGY UNNECESSARY

There is no need to apologize for spending a great amount of time in one's college career in social activities.
Indeed the school should take time out from its academic calendar to provide for things like dance weekends and night
club circuits. Whatever the causes for our failures in the intellectual arena, Davidson men’s whirl on the social scene at
worst is only a symptom of these failures and not a cause. A man can have a good social life
from Davidson, but the campus “suitcase image” is a legend that should be buried.

THE ATHLETIC WORK

Aside from the excesses in our own professional branch of athletics, most Wildcats do participate regularly either in intercollegiate or
intramural sports. Intramurals should get much more attention and recognition than our Athletic Department now gives them, since it is
here that the athletics touch the student most often. While there is much student enthusiasm over football and basketball, the
other intercollegiate sports are usually neglected by the spectators. This situation is not unique to Davidson alone.

SICK CHEERLEADERS

Our uniqueness is that most student enthusiasm is exhausted simply by the act of showing up at a contest—recently our
cheerleaders have seemed struck the hardest by this malady. Rarely are faculty members seen at any athletic contests. Those who
do show up, those few, are usually regulars or coaches on the athletic committees. Perhaps most professors feel too old
for this kind of enthusiasm.

RELIGIOUS EXPERIENCE

No other area of the college experience is neglected in the way as are the activities and institutions of the
Christian Church. Perhaps this is a good thing, particularly if it is a step towards a greater maturity.

LITTLE SIGNIFICANCE

But actually I’ve overstated the case, because the activities of Christianity on this campus have as little significance to students
as the hiring of another athlete. Not the religious aspect of Vespers causes student resentment, as does the compulsory aspect
of sitting through what is usually one of the most unprofitable hours in a student's career.

JUSTIFIED INDIFFERENCE

Another one of my many opinions is that much of this student indifference to organized Christianity has some justification and
value. But what is frightening about this indifference is its failure also to reflect upon the problems with which religious
thinkers have wrestled. The problem of evil, the nature of man, the questions of moral truth—there is little more than
passing interest displayed by students. Perhaps we are too removed from the city, too isolated and provincial to develop mature
religious convictions.

WONDERFUL EXPERIENCE

Beyond all this, Davidson College can be proud of its many accomplishments. What problems there are both with students and
the institution I am confident can be overcome. A man can have a meaningful four years here that will remain
for him a wonderful experience. I’ve enjoyed writing columns these two years, under three pretty good editors. There are some
other kudos that must be presented:

SOMETHING LEARNED

First, to each of the men under which I’ve studied: there is something that I learned from each one of
you and there was much more that I should have learned. Second, to the general student body and administration: your
calm reception of my opinions I salute as a sign of your tolerance rather than of your agreement or indifference.
It's been a great four years here. Good luck to you all and here's hoping you have a memorable college
experience. See you at the class reunion.
