Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

Curtis HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor)

A Two-Way Street

The typical student reaction to yesterday’s Trustee action is one of “it’s about time.” But looked at realistically, the almost
certain suspension of Vespers is not an unqualified abolishment, as many students think. In the first place, the measure is
only a temporary one, and though it would be admittedly difficult to reinstate compulsory Vespers after a two-year absence, it
could be done. In the second place, the Trustees were willing to make the change only with the assurance that
alternative forms of voluntary worship would be provided, as recommended by the Faculty Committee on Religious Life.

In the light of such considerations, both students and faculty are faced with the responsibility of providing a meaningful religious
life on campus. While the suspension of Vespers represents a “liberation” of sorts, it also entails an increase in responsibility
for students to maintain a meaningful worship service which will replace the compulsory nature of Vespers. The Trustees are by
no means ready to forget that Davidson is a Christian college. The fact that 75 percent of the Trustees are
representatives of presbyteries should be enough to convince the most skeptical of that. It was only with the greatest reluctance
that the Board was convinced of the rightness of its action. They wanted to keep an institution which has served
Davidson for such a long time, and only its obvious obsolescence made the Board see the futility of continuing compulsory
Vespers.

Yesterday's action was also significant for the degree of faculty-Trustee cooperation which was shown, a far cry from last spring’s
fraternity incident when the Trustees reversed a decision of the faculty. According to the Trustee bylaws, matters of college policy
are to be voted on by the faculty. While the Trustees, as the legal “owners” of the college, are the
ultimate authority, such policy matters should be left to the discretion of the faculty. The Trustees, in allowing the final
decision to be made by the faculty, have shown a commendable degree of foresight. Likewise, the faculty was wise to
consult with the Board before taking any action. Once the Trustees understood the position of the Faculty Committee on Religious
Life, the way was opened for a common ground of agreement between the two bodies.

One of the main problems which has faced the two groups has been a lack of communication and understanding of
each other’s position. Hopefully, this issue will set a precedent for such improved communication and cooperation.

The Forgotten Policeman

One aspect of the social changes Davidson is now undergoing has received little attention: the role of hall counselors in
helping freshmen adjust to college life. Before this year a hall counselor’s chief job was that of glorified policeman: He
did little more than keep energetic freshmen from doing serious damage to college property during their periodic water battles. The
task of orienting 80 percent of the class was left up to the fraternities, who shaped much of their pledge
programs around such a goal. And most of the freshman Independents were quickly absorbed into the community. Hall counselors were
rarely bothered by the problems of neurotic high school valedictorians who couldn't make the adjustment to college life.

But under delayed rush, freshmen are in a state of limbo; though they admittedly have much more contact with upperclassmen,
it is of a superficial sort and they have no real relationship with any upperclassmen. Consequently, the hall counselors are
left with the problem of working with the frustrated freshman. In addition, the counselors are now faced with the responsibility
of taking over much of the work done by fraternities in the areas of intramurals and orientation. Last fall, the
counselors, on the grounds of their increased responsibilities, petitioned and won a slight increase in salary, up $20 from half-room
pay of $110 per year. Now they have presented a program to Dean of Students Richard Burts which would completely
revamp the entire program and concept of hall counselors, as well as increase their salary.

The present program is very informal and unorganized, a situation which we find deplorable in light of the counselors’ increased
responsibilities. One aspect drastically needing revamping is the system of selection. At present, no formal application is required and potential
counselors have to present no indication of interest other than a vocal application. Minimum requirements for acceptance should include a
written statement of why an applicant desires to become a counselor and an interview with Dean Burts and the Supervisor
of Dormitories. Another shortcoming in the selection process is found in the practice of providing a balance among fraternities. Undoubtedly
this stems from a mistaken belief that hall counselors are a rush advantage. But with the increased contact with fraternity
men and a semester-long rush, the advantage of having fraternity men on a hall will be negligible. Such a process
eliminates better-qualified men by an artificial procedure.

The hall counselors have also proposed an ambitious program which would include more frequent and better communication with the Dean’s
Office and more active counselor participation in freshmen’s lives. If such a program as outlined above were instituted through cooperation
between the counselors and the Dean's Office, we would support their contention that they deserve a raise to full room,
$220. Such a program on the one hand would assure the selection of interested and qualified counselors and definite duties
and responsibilities of the counselors on the other. But previously there has never been any assurance that policies would prevail
and there has consequently prevailed much misunderstanding on both sides of the fence.

Good-Bye To WN?

We've heard no one mourn the abbreviated number of chapels this semester. But the reduced assembly program has been marked
by the conspicuous absence of a traditional springtime rite: the Who's Nothing tapping. The WN’s have been squeezed out by
the likes of such men as James McGregor Burns and William Worthy. We would suggest that that honorable group sponsor
a voluntary chapel in order to keep their ceremony alive. A considerable number of students would undoubtedly show up, if
the group could guarantee a program as entertaining as the programs of the two previous years have been, featuring the
inimitable professors E. F. Patterson and Charles Cornwell. But we suspect that such a program would be doomed from the
start. While there would be a large student contingent present, we doubt that anyone worthy of the honor of being
a Who’s Nothing would take the trouble to attend a voluntary chapel.

Associate Editors
JOHN BAILEY
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION

Managing Editors
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor
ROBBIE HOOKER

Feature Editor
LINDSAY DAVIS

Copy Editor
RICK MILDNER

Photographers
BILL OLSON
GEORGE PURVIS

Cartoonists
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributions This Week: Joel Keys, Jim Marrow, Don Sewell, Cliff Duke, Geoff Birkhead, Charles Elliott, Toby Watt, Dick Spencer, George
Cretekos, John Wessell, Bill Seigler, Bruce Welhe, Cameron Ferguson, Carter Fussell, Bill Graham, Brodie Brown, Grey Pash, Ed Dwelle, Chuck
Green, Jim Cooley, Sid Esary, Billy Farr, Terry Sonnonstine, Rob Powell, Al Varner.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Negative

What's wrong with us, anyway? Don't we know how well-off we really are? There it is again, the negative aspect,
the defensive attitude that is so very easy to assume. Whether or not we were in agreement with the stand
of the “Sing Out Sixty-Sixers” is irrelevant to the attitude that the group tried to present. Here was a group
of collegians singing (and speaking) out on a positive note. The attitude was almost too unique. It is oftentimes much
more difficult to be strongly in favor of a movement than it is to oppose one. All we seem to
hear now are attitudes that are “anti-this” or “anti-that.” The refreshing note of a positive attitude is almost lost in
this generation.

Skeletons Of The Past

From The Christian Science Monitor

In his dorm he sits, the title character of Milton White's A Yale Man. Within this room he has wept
at the Whiffenpoof Song and dreamed of “all the wonderful things that were to happen.” His totems surround him: a
stolen poster of Lily Pons on the wall, a borrowed raccoon coat in the closet. He speaks out the window
and in an ecstasy of self-awareness throws wide his arms to all of Berkeley. “I'm Yale!” he cries. “I'm Yale...
I'm Yale... I'm Yale!”

IMMEASURABLE DISTANCE

Mr. White is a classmate of John Hersey (Yale ’36). But what an immeasurable distance lies between A Yale Man
and Too Far to Walk, Mr. Hersey's latest work and a representative of the new campus novel. Gone are the
absent-minded professors and the Harold Teen undergraduates. Once upon a time in an ivy-covered neverland bounded by a malt shop
and a football stadium... The old myth is no longer tenable, even as a myth.

NO LONGER ISOLATED

Its walls no longer substantially isolate the campus from the world. For better and for worse,the campus belongs to its
times—more extensively, and certainly more intensely, than most of the professional worlds into which colleges thrust their alumni. This radically
changed, highly charged milieu is the central fact which the new campus novel reflects.

“LIFE-FUZZINESS”
In “Too Far To Walk,” Hersey’s prototype student, John Fist, suffers from “a kind of life-fuzziness.” “Furious at all authority,”
he regards college as “the old conformist success-chopper” where “learning equals earning.” Sick of college, sick of the adult world,
Fist inevitably winds up crying: “I'm sick of me.” What Fist does not want is perfectly clear: what his father
has. What he does want is noticeably less clear. His goodwill cannot find objectives.

DISSIPATIONS
Even his dissipations—about which Mr. Hersey is doggedly explicit—are lukewarm and haphazard. For Fist’s dominant trait is restlessness—that least defining
trait of all. The same motif also appears in Dink’s Blues. Marilyn Hoff writes of her circle of tense undergraduates:
“We seemed all to be driving together headlong ninety miles an hour downhill toward a bridge washed out.” Dink is
a coed who trades in her freshman religiosity for an equally mystical brand of sophomore existentialism. Mostly out of pity,
she becomes involved with a particularly hapless professor and finally leaves school.

NICE GIRL
Compared about college life, Miss Hoff is just a nice girl trying to look worldly under the insuperable handicap of
a shiny pug nose and irredeemably wholesome freckles. One remembers the indignation of Dink’s narrator when an older woman called
her clean-cut: “I thought it futile to tell her how I resented her appraisal.” But this near-innocence allows Miss Hoff
to do justice to the adolescent, even the child, beneath the emergent adult. Her novel has a tenderness, an unabashed
concern for vulnerability that Mr. Hersey cannot rival. At her best moments, the adult world seems to belong to another
planet.

ARMED DIALOGUE
Yet ultimately, the campus novel today is a dialogue between generations—often an armed dialogue. At its most simplified, it is
a kind of morality play waged between Purity and Experience. In the stammered dialogue between generations—that tragicomedy of mutual misquotation—American
campus novels tend either to splutter monologues of no-surrender (“Dink’s Blues”) or to jerry-rig hopeful bridges (“Too Far to Walk”).
The British seem better able to engage the generations in exchanges which do, in fact, exchange and do not become,
on the other hand, sentimental daydreams of rapport.

‘Enemy’ Points To Conflict Of Duty, Personal Interest
A Review By HANSFORD M. EPES
Henrik Ibsen's Enemy of the People tells the story of Doctor Thomas Stockmann, who discovers that the “healing springs” of
his village, which is just becoming a popular resort town, are infested with harmful bacteria. Thinking to prevent possible epidemics,
he reveals this information to his brother, Peter, who is the town's mayor. Expecting to be praised for his contribution,
he is rewarded instead by the hatred of his neighbors, who see necessary improvements in the water system as excessively
costly and Stockmann’s attacks as motivated by personal animosity.

Stockmann is surrounded by characters whom he expects to support him—in particular, the crusading editors of the town’s supposedly liberal
newspaper. On every side, he is let down: The liberals cry for moderation, or give way at the slightest opposition.
Apparent support melts away quickly. Only Stockmann’s family and one friend, Captain Horster, stand by him—and the latter's support is
basically uninformed.

The drama is in ways a classic story of the crusader and his society: Stockmann himself is somewhat eccentric—and thus
easily dismissed. His friends offer drawing-room support but are afraid to stand up at his side—all for the most logical
of reasons. (Moderation being, after all, the wisest of all possible courses.) He is left, finally, alone and discredited. And
the “enemy of the people”—as he is acclaimed at a town meeting—turns out to be just that, for he is
an enemy of the mob, an enemy of the forces that easily sway others from what he knows to be
the one right course.

Ibsen tends, of course, to seem somewhat dated to modern audiences. It often seems difficult to find relevance in the
issues which upset society in the late nineteenth century. In this case, the fact that scientific findings of a relatively
simple nature are not commonly understood and accepted as absolute truth might seem a little ludicrous. There is, though, the
central question of the crusader and the society around him, the one who is right and the many who are
wrong. This should not seem an out-of-date problem.

Nevertheless, the danger remains that such a drama might not be viewed by today's audience as much other than an
interesting and structurally skillful period piece. All of this is careful preface to the search for reasons for the failure
of last night’s performance to generate the excitement that the central issues could generate. Only in the town meeting scene—played
and directed with great skill in the house itself, not on the stage—was this excitement present. Otherwise, only too rarely
was there a sense in the audience other than that of spectators at a performance by an amateur group.

Too few of the actors seemed to have any well-developed notion of the characters they were portraying—but then many of
them were portraying caricatures or types. In the major roles, only Bill Andrews (as Mayor Peter Stockmann) really created believable
illusion. For most of the rest, there was too much reliance on one or two gestures, too much acting just
with hand and mouth. Other exceptions should be mentioned: Don Davis’ portrayal of the elderly Morten Kiil and Rawley Turner
as editor Billing. Space is short: the technical aspects, especially sets, should be mentioned. Ibsen is an interesting and important
dramatist; if you haven’t been to Enemy of the People there are performances tonight and tomorrow night.

B.C.
I THINK THE KID IS A LITTLE REFORM
Improvement of Davidson College, and there always will be as long as it is run by men. But there is
equally much and more to be said on the “plus” side. The Ford Foundation is giving us the chance to
make positive steps forward. It has voiced a faith in us that I sometimes wonder if we hold ourselves. Davidson
graduates are able to go to the best graduate schools and compete favorably. Davidson students have what it takes if
they will only use it. Whether we are willing to admit it or not, we gain a whale of a
lot more from Davidson than we will ever be able to justify or repay.

NATIONAL PLATEAU
We seem to be more used to the idea of self-improvement and advancement here than most places. Davidson is definitely
not standing still. We are now approaching a plateau of national competition; the days of comparing favorably in the South
are behind us. But I would like to see more of the attitude required by this type of advancement reflected
among members of the student body. Attitude is a strange word because it can mean so many things to so
many people. But a wholesome attitude is one which looks for the best in things and people; it emphasizes these
aspects and only criticizes when it can offer a positive alternative which promises improvement of a situation.

ATTITUDE
This wholesome attitude does not then stifle criticism; rather, it presents the only way we can accomplish anything. If our
institution warrants criticism then it must also mean enough to us to look for what it offers us. Protest against
required ROTC, Chapel, Vespers, Union food, the fraternity system, etc. ad infinitum is perfectly legitimate (and desirable) as long as
it is pursued in the proper vein. But when this protest is carried to the point that it reflects unfavorably
on the school and interferes with people who are trying to do the best they can with their respective jobs,
it is wrong.

PROPER MANNER
When you have something worth saying and say it in the proper manner you are moving toward accomplishment of your
goal. But to openly interfere with something like the ROTC federal inspection is very immature, disagreement notwithstanding. Most forms of
protest lose any sense of a dialogue, and by this token they defeat themselves. We all have a natural rebellion
against coercion of any sort and little is accomplished out of a clash. It is only by working together that
things are really improved. In many cases this year we have seen what can be done with the proper attitude.

CHANGE COMING
We have seen protests about the Vespers situation begin to be dealt with effectively. Change is coming from within the
fraternity system and is due to a spirit of working together. We have seen an improved seating situation at basketball
games in the Charlotte Coliseum. These are only a few of the areas where effective change has been brought about
by working together. When we abuse the privileges and rights that we have, we are being unfair to ourselves and
our successors who may wish to take the proper route toward reform. The idea of coming forth and saying “I
am for” this or that rather than “I am against” it is what is called for in this type of
positive attitude. Let's don't just “knock it;” let's remedy it.
