PAGE FOUR

Tournament - Tough
By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

A few minutes after the final buzzer sounded the death knell for West Virginia last Saturday, Coach Lefty Driesell and Captain Dick Snyder were hoisted above the mass of screaming humanity at one basket. When they came down, the net to that goal came with them, and Charlotte's Coliseum reverberated with noisy delirium. This traditional act marked the end of frustration for Davidson, signifying the ‘Cats’ first conference championship and their right to advance further than any of their predecessors. The fans knew who the leaders were, and they were shoved up to cut down the symbolic net.

Snyder, the man called “Superhorse” by the coach whose team he beat, was named the tournament's most valuable player. This was only fitting, for he was this team’s leader from the opening tap of the season.

A NEW RECORD

The dark-thatched senior surpassed the college scoring record by tallying 711 points, with at least one game left to enhance this mark. Displaying a tremendous assortment of shots, Snyder fired baskets through the hoop faster than all but four other collegians. Yet this unselfish team captain demonstrated a team effort unequalled by other prodigious scorers. All season long he swept in rebounds, guarded the opponent’s top scorer, nearly always holding his man below his average, passed off for numerous assists, and provided immeasurable inspiration and leadership to a young team.

This year's squad, minus All-American Fred Hetzel and three other starters, was “destined” for nowhere. This destiny was prophesied by basketball scribes, but the word must not have reached little Davidson. There, in the friendly confines of Johnston Gym, Snyder and four guys with no starting varsity experience dedicated themselves to a 20-win season. As Snyder admitted then, “I've got to work harder now than ever before.” It was pretty much up to him, and from the start he exuded the desire and leadership which molded this team and helped them mature.

Listen to Bobby Lane: “I can’t remember a single day when he didn’t put forth a tremendous effort. Yes, he definitely helped us mature by his effort and constant encouragement.” A team player? Listen again. “He knew that we could have a good team, but he didn't want it to be a one-man team. He forced us to assume responsibility and then encouraged us. Through his leadership, we acquired more poise and became a real team.”

Bucky Waters, the West Virginia mentor who has compared Snyder to the best in the Southern Conference and the nation, remarked, “Snyder is the fellow with the gun at your head for 40 minutes. He dominates the game.” He should know, for last weekend Snyder pointed the gun at the Mountaineers, and all of his teammates had a finger on the trigger that shot them down.

GREATEST THRILL

Although accorded the MVP award, Snyder claimed that winning the championship was his greatest thrill. A three-sport star in high school at Canton, Ohio, who won All-American honors as a football quarterback, his teams never won any championships. This is the first one he can savor, but the taste won't last long. Next Monday night, the Wildcats tackle the winner of the Connecticut-Rhode Island playoff in Philadelphia's Palestra. Snyder is confident of their chances. His attachment to this team is evident when he says, “This team is not afraid to show emotion. When things went bad on the other team (Hetzel and Co.), everyone was cool. Now, this team can get down on itself, but it can really get up. This is how we finally won the tournament, and this is how I hope we'll continue.”

Snyder admits to many possibilities for the future. He cannot discount the challenge of pro basketball, but he is not sure if this is the career he wants. A serious-minded business student, he is interested in business opportunities. He will also talk to pro scouts about his future in baseball. But the present is clearly defined. He will lead his team into NCAA competition with a bigger championship in mind, dedicated to “leaving some blood up there before we come back.”

FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1966

’Cats Kill Jinx
Cagers Repulse Late Rally, Top WVU To Don Crown
By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A funny thing happened Saturday night: Davidson’s Wildcats—generally known as long on brawn but short on experience, finesse, and capacity to win when the chips are down—took all the chips and walked away from the dealer’s table with the Southern Conference basketball championship and the Coliseum nets to boot. Displaying a desire and determination so...intense that one could not have found fault with them. Had they been beaten by 500 points, the young charges of Lefty Driesell trounced The Citadel and Richmond in the preliminaries and then proved too hot and pressure-proof even for the inspired play of a talented West Virginia team, as the Mountaineers succumbed 80-69 in the finals of the conference tournament to the double-barreled Wildcat assault of relentless defense and unusually well-coordinated offense.

“GO COOL ‘CATS”

In spite of a sign urging "Go Cool 'Cats," the Davidson contingent was never even temporarily chilly as fantastic Dick Snyder, the best athlete to ever wear a Wildcat uniform, controlled the initial tap, raced downcourt, and took a pass to score the game's first two points. The rest is history. The ‘Cats shot well, hitting 53.8 percent on field goals and 82.8 percent on free throws to outshine the Mounties’ respectable averages of 46.6 percent and 75 percent. They outrebounded the smaller West Virginians, 35-30, and they worked better as a team, with 17 total assists compared to 13 for the Mountaineers. Additionally, the ‘Cats’ sticky man-to-man defense forced 15 West Virginia errors and 20 missed field goals.

However, Davidson had shown on several occasions this season its ability to shoot well, to control the boards, and to play aggressive defense. What their critics still were not convinced of was the Wildcats’ ability to keep their poise against a good team when the tide began to turn, to shake off an opposition rally, and win the big game when it counted.

THE PAST

Most remembered the past two tournaments when Davidson entries vastly superior to their foes in personnel and individual talents had fallen to fourth-seeded teams which, on given nights at least, were superior in effort, determination, and ability to win under pressure. Recollection of these contests became vivid as Bucky Waters’ crew—led in the front court by Carl Head, a talented, although undersized, center, and in the backcourt by Ron Williams, a sophomore who was good but just not in Snyder's class, and Gary Shaffer, a substitute guard who played mostly on guts and effort—narrowed a Davidson lead which had been 16 points to 65-63, with a little over five minutes remaining.

It was at this point that the Wildcats erased a stigma pinned to past Davidson teams and to this one after its season-opening loss this year. Snyder, Rod Knowles, Bobby Lane, Phil Squier, and George Leight, playing for the fouled-out Tom Youngdale, took matters in hand and refused to choke. One minute later, the score was up to 71-63 and with this lead the Cats coasted on to their final margin.

SNYDER

Snyder, an All-America for everyone who has seen him play, was, as usual, fabulous. In three tourney games he scored 78 points and grabbed 18 rebounds to win the series’ Most Valuable Player Award. But statistics hardly begin to indicate his value. The former “Soph Sensation,” now a senior, brought leadership to a team which had not seen truly effective leadership since Bill Jarman captained the ‘Cats three years ago. With this leadership, Snyder combined a scoring ability which equaled that of Fred Hetzel and a habit of exhibiting the fiery determination and 100 percent effort that was the trademark of Barry Teague during the three previous years.

There were more heroes. Overshadowing Williams for the top sophomore performance of the tourney was Knowles, who scored 25 points in the finals to achieve a 52-point total for the three-game affair. Yet the most impressive facet of the 6-9 soph's performance was his bruising play under the boards, as Knowles garnered 27 rebounds in the tournament while disposing of any thoughts that he would not put out a maximum effort. Youngdale, another soph and the third of Davidson's big men, really came into his own during the tourney, personally taking charge of the Wildcats’ spurt away from Richmond Friday night and finishing the tournament with 37 points and 22 rebounds. Here the 6-10 strongman showed everyone, including himself, how effective he can be when he decides to get tough.

Lane, as all through the season, was determination and effort personified. The 6-4 sophomore guard amazingly led both teams in the finale in rebounding, pulling down 10 Saturday night and 21 during the tourney. Lane, who tallied 38 points, drew the toughest defensive assignments, guarding players such as Citadel’s Wig Baumann, Richmond's Johnny Moates, and West Virginia's Williams and John Wesher. Holding All-Conference Moates to a season scoring low of six points, Lane never knew the meaning of the word “quit.”

And then there was Squier, the senior guard who bore the brunt of the furious pressing defenses the Wildcats faced. The 5-11 New Jerseyite, who probably wanted to win more than anyone else, led Lefty’s charges in assists while directing the Davidson offensive attack. In the face of the formidable West Virginia rally, Squier refused to choke. Leight provided more than adequate board strength while hauling down 13 rebounds as an often-used reserve, and Pinky Hatcher displayed capable ball-handling and aggressive defense as a backcourt sub.

A TEAM

The Cats were a team built around a superstar to be sure—yet, the key to their victory was not that they had a star, but that they were a team. The defeat was the first ever for West Virginia in the tournament title game, and the contest was summed up, from the Mountaineer coach’s point of view, by a Davidson banner which read, “Tough Luck, Bucky.”

(Staff Photo by Purvis)

TOM YOUNGDALE TUSTLES WITH RICHMOND’S BUSTER BATTS
Wildcat Sophomore Had Outstanding Tournament

CHICKEN

Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Daily Food Specials
TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
Eat Under Tropical Palms

MOORESVILLE