FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1966 PAGE THREE

ANOTHER HURDLE

Thursday's afternoon sun smiled broadly as Lefty Driesell loaded his 10 tall tournament tickets into a plane pointed toward Raleigh. Less than 24 hours later, 375 students — nursing their tournament tickets as carefully as Driesell nursed his — loaded into over 100 cars pointed toward Reynolds Coliseum. Tonight at nine, Driesell’s tickets and Davidson’s ticket holders meet again, miles away from the campus they both left slowly waking up for the weekend.

Incidental to this meeting is another confrontation — Davidson’s second hurdle to the Eastern Regional’s title, Syracuse. A fast, quick team, as most of this year’s Northeastern squads seem to be, Syracuse brings a high scoring average, a 21-5 mark, and an All-American to Raleigh. “We’ve seen them three times this year,” Driesell remarked. “They're taller than Rhode Island, but they play a similar run and shoot type game.”

Nearly every Wildcat basketball fan that looks at tonight's game agrees that Driesell will have to stop Dave Bing, Syracuse’s version of ‘“Superhorse” to beat the Orangemen from the North. The natural way, many of the backseat coaches also agree, is with Dick Snyder, Davidson’s Superhorse, All-American, Mr. Everything. “I don’t know whether Snyder will be on Bing or not,” Driesell admitted, “and if I did I wouldn’t tell you.”

So there is another element of surprise added for tonight’s encounter. Not only must we wonder if our 1966 brand of Wildcat basketball can handle one of the top Northeastern independents, but will Snyder be on Bing, and can he handle him?

But before Davidson takes the court, St. Josephs and Duke butt heads in the opener. Win, lose, tie or otherwise, Davidson will play two games this weekend; tonight’s contest with Syracuse and tomorrow night’s contest with the winner (uh, loser?) of the St. Joe-Duke tilt. In a tournament such as the grueling NCAA regionals and finals, if a team wants to win, it must not only concentrate on the next game, which it must not lose, but the game after that, which is also a necessity.

Driesell knows plenty about St. Joe, who edged him 83-79 in Charlotte earlier this year. As for Duke, again Driesell has scouted well, “I watch the Vic Bubas show every week,” he joked.

CINDERELLA

Davidson must be the Cinderella team of the tournament. “Everybody expects us to get beat,” Driesell admitted, “But we're planning to go to College Park next weekend. We really don’t have as much pressure on us as these other teams. After all, they're in the top 10, and we’re not — I think we should be, but we're not. We’re confident we can go up there and win these regionals.”

Monday, Cinderella slipped into her glass slipper and amazed everyone with how well it looked over her size 12 basketball shoes. But despite the grace of the ’Cats’ win over completely outclassed Rhode Island, they are still a Cinderella team in the eyes of the basketball world. “Any tournament win by a big score helps you,” Driesell philosophized. “It helps momentum, your mental attitude, and playing without Snyder helped give the other boys confidence.”

With renewed confidence, Davidson's mores and senior Phil smoother, more assured time this season. After spending all but 12 minutes on the bench, Snyder may make even a greater effort in Raleigh to show any skeptics that are left he ranks with the best this year. Waiting six years to capture the conference title may give this year’s Driesell-coached team enough bottled-up desire and momentum to win more, regardless of the odds they face.

Cinderella may have been a dirty, little, underdog chimney sweep, but she won the crown despite the odds she faced. Tonight Cinderella again comes to the court, convinced she has the horses to carry her coach to victory. Two ugly sisters could be vanquished this weekend before the clock strikes midnight and horses supposedly become mice and coaches pumpkins — just two ugly sisters between Cinderella and another crown.

By DOUG CRISP
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson matmen journeyed to Williamsburg, Va., to participate in the Southern Conference tournament, last Friday and Saturday. The ‘Cats finished in sixth place out of the seven-team field. West Virginia finished in first place, the Citadel second, followed by VMI, East Carolina, William and Mary, Davidson, and Furman.

The teams finished in groups of twos — WVU and The Citadel being very close at the top, VMI and East Carolina separated by only a few points, and William and Mary beating Davidson by only two points. Joe Buffington, a 123-pounder, finished in third place, being defeated by the conference champion only. Edie Nichols finished in fourth place in the 160-pound class. Bruce Vanderbloeman held down a fourth place in the 167-pound division. Heavyweight Lowell Bryan finished in fourth place in his weight division.

The ‘Cats were hindered in the tourney by the absence of three wrestlers out with injuries — Terry O'Hair, Johnny Webb, and Martin Miller. Next year the weight classes have been changed to include a 191-pound class and 115-pound division. This new system of 11 weight classes will help the ‘Cats next season. Colin Hudson, a freshman who was undefeated this season in the 123-pound class, will wrestle in the 115-pound division. Bryan Pittman and Rick Villa are freshmen who will help the varsity greatly next year. Dean Cromartie, Kerry Keith, and Smith Adds Short, Brown to FB Staff

By BILL RICHMOND
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Robert C. Brown and senior Dick Short have recently been named as new members to head football coach Homer Smith's staff. Until their appointments, Smith’s staff was short one man as Ken Blair left Davidson football to return to his alma mater, Colorado.

Brown comes to Davidson from the Hampton School system in Virginia. There, he coached football and baseball for the past year. Before this experience, he was head coach at Hargrave Military Academy in Chatham, Va. A 1959 graduate from the College of William and Mary, Brown served the next year as head coach of George Wythe Junior High School, Hampton, Va., and in the following year he served as a graduate coach at his alma mater, where he got his B.S. in Physical Education. Brown is married and has two children, Cheryl Kataryn, 4, and Scott Christopher, 1.

“I met Bob around a year ago and am very pleased he has decided to join our program. He is highly motivated to coach college football,” said Coach Smith. “We are extremely pleased to find a man of his caliber and experience to complete our organization.”

Helping Brown will be Dick Short, presently a member of the senior class. Dick’s job will be to help Brown principally on the freshman level, to help in the scouting chores, and to help in the recruiting program. After the season, Dick plans to travel and enter seminary. “Dick will help in our overall program,” remarked Smith. “He, Coach Brown, and I will work with whichever unit (offense or defense) looks better. These two men are fine additions to the program.”

Wildcat CatfishBy DON SEWELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s Wildcat swimming team finished fourth in the Southern Conference swim meet held Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at the Citadel in Charleston. Teams from William & Mary, Carolina, Citadel, West Virginia, and VMI also swam in the meet which East Carolina won quite handily. The swimmers from East Carolina broke nearly every record for the meet in winning all but two events. The two events they lost, one to VMI and one to William & Mary, were record-breaking times. Behind East Carolina followed VMI, then West Virginia, and fourth Davidson. West Virginia took a second in the last event, the 800-yard freestyle relay, to barely edge out the ‘Catfish for third by four points.

Coach Tom Stevens’ swimmers leading the meet were Bris Rogers, Jim Stokes, John Helm, Tom Irons, Rich Holt, Steve Bardon, and the relay teams. Rogers placed second in the 50-yard freestyle event. Stokes swam to second place in both the 200 and the 100-yard butterflies. Helm made the ‘Cats punch two-three in the 100-yard butterfly by finishing third behind Stokes. Irons added points to Davidson's score by swimming second in the 100-yard freestyle event. Holt showed strength by taking fourth in the 200 individual medley and placing in both the 200 and 100-yard backstroke events. Bardon placed sixth in the 100-yard breaststroke. The water-loving 'Cats finished second in the 400-yard medley and placed in the 400-yard freestyle relay also.

Outstanding swimmer for the meet was East Carolina's Owen Parris who set records in the 200 and 400-yard individual medleys and the 200-yard butterfly.

Davidson’s track team participated but failed to place in the Southern Conference Indoor Track Championship, Saturday, at VMI in Lexington, Va. “Even though it was our first meet,” said Coach Whittle, “Steve Gill ran well with a time of 2:05 for the 880-yard run. Also, Randy Randolph had a fair distance in the shot put with a toss of 41 ft. and 11 inches.”

Phi Delts Race By Field, Capture IMAC Track Title
By DAVID KING
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons witnessed the latest version of that wild and woolly affair known as the IMAC track meet. Jocks, former jocks, and pseudo-jocks turned out in moderate numbers to give their all for ego and fraternity. The Phi Delts more than doubled their closest rival, the Betas, to run away with first place in the meet. The Delts with 39 points and the Betas with 17 were followed by the ATO’s with 14, the Kappa Sigs with 10, The Machis and the SPE’s with 8, and the KA’s and Phi Gams with 7.

The cold wind on Tuesday afternoon discouraged the usual strength of track attire and caused a sizable number of burning chests and numb ears. Rick Harrell, a member of the KA relay team, toed the line nonchalantly in a Gant and rolled-up slacks. Harrell found, to his dismay, that hush puppies are no match for track shoes. Just before taking off in the 440, Ed Armfield was convinced that he could perform better without his overcoat. He did not, however, attempt to perform without his cigarette. He lost.

Featuring such renowned crowd-pleasers as Barry St. Clair, Tommy Hunter, and Terry O'Hair, the three-quarter mile run was a spectator’s delight. O'Hair, obviously super-psyched by the thrill of competition, set a blistering pace for the first quarter mile. Shortly into the second lap, Hunter, midway in the strung-out pack and sensing defeat, stepped casually from the track and melted into the crowd. Tommy's absence was immediately recognized by his brother John who was quick to inform fellow spectators. A barrage of horrible, character-defaming insults was hurled at Hunter who, acting as if he had heard them all before, was completely unaffected. O’Hair’s health failed badly during and after the last two laps and St. Clair came on strong to win.

A small mob competed in the high jump. The contenders included such giants as Rufus Adams, Mike Dicken, and Wayne “Beetle” Rhodes. Adair won the event but was disqualified because he earned a varsity letter last year, so the blue ribbon was passed to Jim Starrett. But runner-up Rhodes’ performance was by far the most spectacular. The Beta, whose height varies between five-nine and five-ten depending on whether or not his hair is cut, soared over the bar at 5'8".

Judging from the results, the Phi Delts seem to have something of a monopoly on speed. Delts Jack Lingle, Paul Rikard, and Dave Sprinkle placed first in the 100, 220, 440, and low hurdles respectively. Barry St. Clair, with a first in the 660 and three-quarter mile, was high point winner of the meet.

Thinclads Cleaned In Meet
Six members of Davidson's track team participated but failed to place in the Southern Conference Indoor Track Championship, Saturday, at VMI in Lexington, Va. “Even though it was our first meet,” said Coach Whittle, “Steve Gill ran well with a time of 2:05 for the 880-yard run. Also, Randy Randolph had a fair distance in the shot put with a toss of 41 ft. and 11 inches.”

RICHARD HOLT HITS THE WATER
‘Cats Cop Fourth In Conference
“We ran in this meet just for the experience,” Whittle explained. “Most of the other schools in the meet had already run in at least five indoor meets.”

A gentleman seeking the unusual will prefer cotton batik. This unusual Polynesian design was inspired by the cloth worn by natives of the South Sea Islands. Batik now gains new authority in our short-sleeved coat model, topped by a cleanly-controlled button-down collar. It's lightweight and luxurious for your leisure life.

GO ALL THE WAY ‘CATS. WE ARE BEHIND YOU 100%
Bush Wilson
Davidson, N. C.
Greenville, S. C.

Pipe Smokers
It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.
Maison Michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
375-9723