Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Chance To Grow Up

We are somewhat disappointed over the faculty's failure to arrive at a decision in Tuesday’s meeting on the recommendations of the Social Life Evaluation Committee. But we are not disheartened, to say the least; for we see in the tabling of the matter a sign that the faculty is determined to bring about the best possible cure to the social blight on campus.

The most encouraging factor in the whole approach to the problem this year has been the time and detail that has gone into the formulation of the seven proposals of the special faculty committee. The study group, chaired by Dr. W. G. Workman, has met regularly and often more than one time per week since the first week in October. The members of the committee, including four students, four faculty members, and the college chaplain, could not have been more thorough in their handling of the situation. The committee solicited statements and opinions from nearly every group and individual directly concerned with social life on campus—the Freshman Council, the Interfraternity Council, the new Social Council, freshmen, fraternity men, and Independents alike.

What cannot be overlooked, then, is the intensive effort that has characterized this most recent study. We believe, too, that the proposals point up the moderate tone of the group. What, after all, is so objectionable to the seven recommendations? Davidson’s fraternities have enjoyed what has become known as a “model system.” The unique housing and boarding arrangement is a tribute to both the fraternity members and the college. As we stated in our platform before the campus elections last spring, there is a “definite value in the small group friendship and social life that fraternities on campus provide for their members.” This is all good, but unfortunately, it does not tell the entire story. Woven into the system are grievous maladies, certain wrongs that have been tolerated and basically ignored so long by the fraternities, that they squeal at the slightest hint of change from their sophisticated pathways.

The foremost recommendation of the Workman committee is item five. Around this proposal has most naturally revolved the most discussion since the committee's report was issued last week. This has also been the focal point of criticism against fraternities on a national scale. It is the often dolorous practice of discrimination. Well blessed within the confines of Southern standards and 100-year-old traditions, both the fraternities and the college have been content to condone an exclusive system which is directly opposed to the basic principles of this institution. Such standards are disappearing with even broader social changes, and certain traditions cannot long stand alongside the college's aspirations to become a nationally known center of learning.

It is unfortunate that the fraternities themselves did not take the initiative in these inevitable adjustments, but rather chose to assume a role of stagnated indifference. The opportunity for every freshman to associate himself with a fraternity, if he wishes to do so, should be made available as soon as a plan desirable to both the fraternities and the college can be effected. By failing to recognize the feasibility and present need for such a system, certain blind reactionaries are merely expediting the death warrant of fraternities as they now exist on the Davidson campus.

Equally controversial is the proposal to allow the freshman class to eat in the College Union for both semesters. Among other advantages, this would contribute to the abstract element of class unity. Even more, it would stabilize the operation of the Union cafeteria and greatly assure the continuation of the current level of superior service.

Financial problems of the fraternities can be solved by the cooperation of the 12 groups together. Cries of “wolf” in this area are often painful and loud, but they hold no precedence over the best interests of the college as a whole. The positive advantages to a system of delayed rush are evident in this year’s freshman class. To allow the incoming freshman to adjust freely, without the sudden, inhibitive pressures of fraternity life, is the most favorable adjustment which was made for this year’s freshmen. On the other hand, the compromise system of rush which lasted through two months of the first semester should not be tolerated again. Instead, the idea of a brief period of formal rush after the end of the first semester would make the pseudo-friendship more bearable for the rusher and rushee alike.

Unrestricted contact between freshmen and upperclassmen should have been effected this year. But once again it seems that fraternities have failed to adapt to a changing environment. We have said before, and we repeat, that the campus needs the benefits of small-group social life. The fraternities have long provided this for their members. But times change, and fraternities must change as well. If they cannot, well, there are other means of organization. The Social Life Evaluation Committee has not attacked the fraternities; rather, it has given them an opportunity. They now plainly have the chance to grow up—or to fold up.

In Dollars And Cents

Dr. Paul Marrotte, chairman of the faculty athletic committee, in a letter on this page has certainly re-emphasized a situation that we pointed out last week. Davidson students are having to pay for tickets to see their own basketball team play its last two home games this season. The concern of the athletic department obviously lies with fattening its pocketbook rather than with the interests of the students whom it supposedly serves.

The purpose of playing in the Coliseum must be to make more money from the general public—not from the students—in order to increase the amount of funds the athletic department has at its disposal. If the profits to be made at the Coliseum are not realized, there is no excuse for playing there. The inconvenience of traveling 20 miles to see our home games is hardly great. But the idea that students must dig into their pockets and pay an extra sum—in addition to the annual activities fee—to finance this inconvenience and then view the games from some of the worst seats in the Coliseum is really ridiculous.

We do apologize for being under the illusion that the Wildcats are the students’ team. We suggest, rather, that for the purpose of consistency with the policies of the athletic department, statistics on this year’s basketball team measure the team’s success in dollars and cents instead of in games won and lost!

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK

News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Assistant Copy Editors
Photographers
BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Marrotte Discloses Error In Charging For Tickets

(Editor's Note: The following letter from Dr. Marrotte to Dr. Scott was received for publication by THE DAVIDSONIAN.)

Dr. Tom Scott, Director
Department of Athletics
Davidson College

Dear Dr. Scott:

During the past week it has been announced by the Department of Athletics that the student tickets to the two basketball games in the Coliseum on Feb. 12 against New York University and on Feb. 15 against St. Joseph's will cost the students one half the admission price. As chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, I wish to protest this policy of charging the students any admission to these two games. On Feb. 4, 1965, you were present at the Faculty Athletic Committee meeting at which time it was agreed that “student tickets to Coliseum basketball games will be FREE when school is in session, but are half-price during recess.” (See minutes of that meeting). I certainly think that the students and the Faculty Athletic Committee have a right to know why the policy was changed from that adopted one year ago. I wish to make it clear that the change in policy was not presented to the Committee.

Paul A. Marrotte, Chairman
Faculty Athletic Committee

Edwards

Dear Editor:

The Registrar's office has outdone itself with the posting of the latest examination schedule. Although such arbitrary schedules are never satisfactory to all concerned, this one should set some sort of a record for total inequity. The primary faults lie in placing two periods in which a majority of the student body has classes, the second and third period Monday classes, on the same day of the schedule, compounded by the fact that this is to be the last day of exams; scheduling the arduous and time-consuming ROTC exams for a day to themselves; and reserving another whole day for the relatively small fourth periodTuesday classes. Add to this the fact that the second half of the schedule is loaded with the largest classes, making it relatively certain that most students will have all of their exams in one short time, and you have the prescription for a real mess. Tied hands or not, it seems that something constructive could be done, even to the point of having only one exam a day. This would require only three more days and would ease the load to some extent. But even if this proposal proves impractical, something should be done before it is too late for another semester.

Charles Edwards
Davidson College

by Holladay

BASKETBALL CONDUCT
Council Chides Students For Poor Sportsmanship

Dear Editor:

Tuesday night at the Freshman basketball game with Carolina, the sportsmanship of students in the stands reached one of the low points of the last few years. The fine game played by the Freshman team seemed insufficient to express the keen desire for competition that rested within the hearts of some of the students, so this competitiveness was forced to find other outlets.

The high point of the evening occurred when two Davidson huskies, in a rare display of courage and heroism, managed, after a prolonged struggle, to wrestle a ninety-eight-pound Carolina student to the floor and remove his hat. But most conspicuous was the failure on the part of the students to observe the dictates of common courtesy in their behavior toward the visiting team. The opposing team's bench is becoming such an object of attention that the action on the court is almost of secondary importance.

Davidson is eager for national recognition on the basketball court. To achieve this, Davidson must play nationally recognized teams. These teams aren't going to play Davidson if students continue to exercise such poor taste in finding outlets for their feelings of rivalry with other schools. This is a practical reason for good sportsmanship, aside from the simple necessity for students to conduct themselves in a manner that will reflect credit on Davidson College and themselves. Davidson can't be "big" in anything if students continue acting in such trivial ways.

Bill Council
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words.

Contributors this week: Bruce Weihe, Grey Pash, Robbie Hooker, Toby Watt, Mike Powell, Bill Graham, Carter Fussell, Billy Farr, Bill Seigler, Kent Gladstone, Mike Bates, Ron Snow, Bob Travers, Price Cameron, John Williams, Mike May, Al Varner, Joe Saunders, Bob Schofield, Dick Richards, Johnny Wessell, Don Sewell, Yates Faison, K. D. Weeks, Bob Reid, Bill Richmond, Cliff Duke.

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The move "to bring Davidson into the mid-20th century" entered a new phase this past week. On one side the faculty and administration revamped the curriculum. For the other side, seeking further social integration of the campus, a faculty committee recommended a 100% bidding set-up for the Greek system. Then faculty members promised themselves to demonstrate their courage and independence next week, show the students who’s running things by voting in new restrictions on student social life (to save their voting privileges from the ‘terrible-tempered trustees’).

WORDS OF THE CHAMBERMAIDS:
“Rejection is bad. That’s why we're going to have a 100% bidding system in student social life. Why don’t we have a 100% bidding system in the admissions office? This is totally irrelevant — we don’t reject, we select.

“Rejection from a fraternity may ruin a student’s entire academic life. Let’s do away with rejection and fraternities. Let’s make eating clubs that everyone will join.

“Someone not want to join a club? Ridiculous. Everybody wants to join—why are they at Davidson if they don’t? They knew what it was like before they came here.

“Alcohol and pre-marital sex are bad. If every student is a student at Davidson College, then every student should participate together socially—in a non-alcoholic, non-sexual, concerned manner. This is good. We want ‘concerned’ students, ‘opposed in principle to the use of alcoholic beverages.’

“But beware of this argument: If all who work at Davidson College are college personnel, then all college personnel should participate together socially—in a non-alcoholic, non-sexual, concerned manner. This is irrelevant—we’re not ‘opposed in principle’ that much.

“Once we do away with fraternities, once we keep students from drinking on campus, once we control the hours student dates keep on dance weekends—then we will have nice students, well-mannered and Christian (who will not try to upset tradition by asking for drinking permission, parietal hours, and voluntary vespers).

“And to make sure we get that kind of student from now on—in the immortal words of one member of the admissions committee—‘Never again will I vote to admit anyone who is not a church member.’”

“We're in favor of new ideas, but make certain they’re taught by some senior member of the faculty, permitted by the administration, and approved by the Bible Department. Otherwise, we don’t want them at Davidson College. (For this approval, get a slip signed in triplicate by all the appropriate people—if you can ever find them.)

“And each year we'll get a better freshman class—their college board scores will be terrific. They will be ‘concerned’ students, the kind of well-mannered Christians we need.

“Then we will keep Davidson a small, liberal arts college, second to none (shoulder to shoulder with Bob Jones U.).”

WORDS FROM THE CHAMBERMEN:
“What does that @c!'tb faculty think it’s doing, messing with our fraternities? A man’s social life is his own business. If we want to discriminate, we'll discriminate! You've got rejection out in life, why shouldn't we be allowed to discriminate here?

“I’ll tell it to you straight. If a guy doesn't get a bid from at least one fraternity (and there are some fraternities that will bid anybody), then there must be something really wrong with him. And we don’t want him. Let him flit around with his personality problem somewhere else. We don’t want any flits here—it’s the fault of the admissions committee, they’re letting in too many flits.

“We aren’t going to bid those flits—they’re too (what's the word) ‘controversial’. Why that kind of person would stir up a fraternity and wreck it with his liberal ideas.

“Let those GDIs mind their own business and stop trying to change us. The admissions committee is letting in too many weirdos—not enough good s.

“This administration doesn’t care about academic freedom. If the faculty had any guts at all they’d demand the hiring of some non-Christian professors. How can we be really intellectually free until we hear other points of view?

“And another thing. Everybody in this student body is too much alike—same background, same ideas, same neighborhood. We need guys from different sections with different ideas, who'll really keep this place from getting too hypocritical. You know, really shake them up on vespers and the drinking rule.

“When it comes to social life, this administration is really blind. Everybody drinks, it’s part of the American way of life. And all the Northern schools have parietal hours. Everybody in the state knows that DC men have the best dance weekends—now if we can just get girls in the rooms.

“If the administration would wise up, put a tavern on Main Street, they could almost pay for the school off those beer profits. Who besides a bunch of old women thinks that drinking is immoral? Half the faculty stays stoned in their homes anyway—if they can drink, why can’t we?

“Once we get some more good guys in here, change the faculty a little, put in campus drinking and put out vespers, this will be the best college in the South (a four-year party school)!”

TRULY THIS IS THE YEAR of the Ruptured Duck. On one wing Davidson soars to new heights of egalitarianism and with the other wing she flops around burdened by antiquated traditions (administration and student). One can hear the results on campus today: one big, squawking, quacking herd of geese. Here is a plea for consistent reforms. Change in one area of campus life requires other changes. May we have the courage to change, despite our prejudices.

We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.