Nelson Analyzes World Of Student Generation

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966

SATURDAY DANCE
‘House Of Music’ Party To Feature Lloyd Price

The Social Council has added rock ‘n roll star Lloyd Price to the entertainment for Midwinters next weekend. “Mr. Personality,”
accompanied by a 14-piece band, will perform at a dance to be held Saturday night from 8 to 12, at
the Lake Norman House of Music, located 15 minutes from the campus.

A unique song stylist, Price has recorded several “million-sellers,” including “Personality,” “Stagger Lee” and “I'm Gonna Get Married.” During his
career, which began in New Orleans, he has crisscrossed the country making night club and television appearances as well as
performing for the armed forces overseas.

Dan Campbell, Social Council chairman, said that all students will be required to show their ID cards and advance tickets
for guests—one dollar stag or drag—will be on sale at the Union desk. By requiring advance tickets, Campbell hopes to
prevent any problems with outsiders.

Campbell said that maps will be distributed at chapel Thursday and that a bus will be making round trips at
regular intervals for those without transportation. Campbell also pointed out that, although the dance will be held off campus, the
faculty drinking rule applies just the same. The rule prohibits students from possessing, or being under the influence of alcohol
while attending any function off campus which is sponsored by the college.

As usual, the hundreds of dates will be housed in Belk and Richardson dorms. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories,
is expecting “a very fine weekend.” Mrs. Nicholls said that Belk and Richardson residents can reserve one space each on
Monday. On Tuesday, other students can sign up, and on Wednesday, spaces remaining will be allotted for guests. Mrs. Nicholls
urges students to not panic. “We always end up with beds that are not used. If students will just sign
our waiting list, and then check back from time to time, they'll probably get a place.” She also asked students
to show more courtesy about cancellations—especially if they will house their dates in town.

Visits To Fraternities Planned By Faculty

A new plan for after-Vespers visits of faculty to fraternity houses was announced at the Interfraternity Council meeting Monday night.
Mike Booe, SAE representative, announced that a schedule had been set for the open houses beginning February 27. There will
be from six to nine faculty members at each of three fraternity houses after Vespers once a month. This will
not conflict with regular faculty open houses which will continue as usual.

The schedule is as follows: February 27—SAE, Beta and Pika; March 20—Sigma Chi, Phi Delt and Phi Gam; April 10—Pi
Kappa, Sig Ep and Kappa Sig; May 1—ATO, Sigma Nu and KA. All students are invited to these open houses.
The faculty members at each house will be announced in THE DAVIDSONIAN and in the Vespers bulletin.

In other action, the IFC voted unanimously to back the fraternity presidents in their proposals and objections to the recent
Social Life Evaluation Committee recommendations to the faculty.

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

American college students are standing in the midst of a new world and are unsure just what they want to
do with it, a former Yale professor told the student body Monday in a serious message laced with rare good
humor.

After being introduced by Will Terry, Dr. John Oliver Nelson, who was described by one student as looking “like Jack
Lemmon playing Teddy Roosevelt,” admitted, “I am bristling with prejudices.” He continued, “A man of my generation can't stand up
here and tell men of your generation how you feel.” Then he proceeded to make a pretty fair stab at
just that.

He further characterized today's students as “a generation morally worried.” “Does Hugh Hefner set the sex ethic of young men
in America?” Nelson asked—and then answered: “I think he does.”

MORAL ESCAPISTS

Young people today are moral escapists, thus the popularity of amoral spy heroes. Codes are rejected. There is somehow a
new moral concern, however. For instance, “There is a moral quality to the draft-card burners,” which other students recognize even
though they disagree with that position. Nelson helpfully concluded, “There are no easy answers. This is a gruelling time for
moral judgments because you're pretty much on your own.”

Because of today’s moral and age which is critical of religion. On campuses of non-church-related schools, the church's attempts to
reach the students are becoming unstructured and ineffective. Today, “Religion must be expressed in the language of this day,” must
be “intellectually respectable.”

Finally, Dr. Nelson said of us, today's collegians: “In this generation you're more personally lonely than any previous generation.” This
sense of alienation, he said, “has to do with the fact that you can't communicate with the older generation.” “This
generation has a sixth sense for phoniness,” he admitted, but he asked, “Are you more honest than the older generation,
or just more impatient?” He finally admonished that students must somehow find a way to communicate with the older generation.

Slater Manager Plans Midwinters Restaurant

To add additional flavor to Midwinters festivities, the new management of the Union will transform the cafeteria into a restaurant
for Saturday night. Manager Bill Beckham hopes to provide students with a relatively inexpensive meal in a restaurant atmosphere, at
the same time building up the image of the Union.

College’s Placement Service Offers Students Many Benefits

By BILL SEIGLER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“I have certainly never regretted the day that I decided to go through the Placement Service at Davidson College. It
has been beneficial to me in more ways than one,” concluded Tommy James Jr., class of '65, who is now
working for Tennessee Eastman Company.

The local College Placement Service, headed by C. Shaw Smith, has operated here since the end of World War II.
Last year it was used by 50 students, 15 of whom were available for immediate employment. The high standing of
the local service is demonstrated by Smith being president of the Southern College Placement Service Association, and his being on
special assignment from the Ford Foundation for campus visitations.

Many Davidson students, especially those interested in graduate work, fail to take advantage of the service, according to Smith. He
emphasizes that “the service is not a process to get a job,” that it can be as important to those
going to graduate school or into military service as to those seeking immediate employment.

LIKE MARRIAGE

In an article in the CPS magazine, Smith says “Job-hunting is like marriage, you must begin hunting and courting now,
not when you are ready to get married.”

Ways in which the Placement Service aids the student include:
—Providing him with interview experience;
—Learning company needs and opportunities and perhaps making graduate school study more practical;
—Furnishing graduate placement services with undergraduate files, thus giving a more complete picture of MA and PhD job candidates;
—Making a file for the student and helping his self-appraisal;
—Possibly finding future employment.

Costs to the participating student are minimal: 50 cents for an annual picture, six dollars for the printing of 100
copies of the individual resume with imprinted picture and one dollar for every transcript over one. Included in the program
is an extensive battery of tests free of charge which, according to Student Counseling Director William B. Hight, is being
given “to more and more students every year.”

FOUR O'CLOCK TALKS

Smith points to the “four o'clock talks” with visiting company representatives as opportunities for all students to acquaint themselves with
potential employers and to learn more about the job market.themselves with business, “without dressing or formality: they are just talks.”
According to Smith, about 60 companies visit the campus for interviews annually, and more would come if there were more
interest among the students. He stresses that “the Placement Service is now part of the academic process... helping a man
decide what to do with his life... and... whether or not he wants business for a career.”

Polack Jokes Invade Campus

Who is the only person who has never heard a Polack joke? A Polack. The reason he has not is
because the main source of Polack jokes are colleges all over the country and Polacks have never heard of college,
much less been to one. Why everyone hates the Polacks is one question about them that no one has been
able to answer yet. Nobody knows one, but everybody knows that they are the stupidest, greasiest, most ridiculous form of
human alive. Not much else is known about them or their origin. Of course, it is common knowledge that they
first got to America by letting one swim the ocean and then the rest of them walked over on the
grease slick, but anything else about their emergence from obscurity is sort of hazy. But that doesn’t matter. What does
matter is that they are so much inferior to everyone else they have become the new low level on the
social scene. Everyone can understand and laugh at a Polack joke because no one is a Polack—at least in his
own mind. After searching the campus, one comes to the conclusion that although everyone denies being a Polack there are
plenty around—the zit next door, the fly down the hall, or the “greasy” townie in the next booth at Hattie’s.
But if you ask him, he will deny it, which is not surprising, since Polacks are too stupid to know
how terrible they are anyway. They do not even know they are Polacks. Whoever started the Polack craze has successfully
remained in anonymity even though there is no reason to fear retaliation from his victims—Polacks are too stupid to get
revenge, or even to know they are being picked on. Why he started it is as unknown as who he
is, unless he is some third-class citizen who decided it would be nice to have someone lower than himself to
cut down. Polack jokes seem to have some unending source. You think you have heard every one but there is
always another you have never heard before. Why does a Polack funeral only have two pallbearers? Because trash cans only
have two handles. What does a flamingo have in his front yard? A plastic Polack. Why can Polacks not swim
in Lake Michigan? Because they will leave a ring. And hundreds of others, most of which cannot be repeated here.
Besides the unanswerable question of why everyone likes Polack jokes so much, the main question is why do Polacks not
get offended when they hear jokes about themselves, or when they read them. No one really knows the answer to
this either, unless it is that Polacks cannot read and they cannot understand the jokes when they hear them.

Minister To Reply To ‘God Is Dead’

“God Is Dead,” a sermon in reply to the modern “God Is Dead” movement, will be delivered by Rev. Howard
G. Hageman at Vespers Sunday. Hageman is past president of the General Synod of the Reformed Church in America. He
has served as Lector at New Brunswick Seminary and exchange lecturer to the Union of South Africa. Hageman is the
author of several well-known theological works. Among these are Lily Among the Thorns, We Call This Friday Good, and Predestination.
He is also a columnist in Church Herald.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night: Blackwell, Crawley, Bernard, Epes, Brinkley, Gill,
Cornwell, Jackson, Kaylor, Puckett, McKelway, Schenck, Polley, Williams, G.

Students Will Attend

Davidson College will represent the Dominican Republic at Duke University this weekend at the eighth annual Middle South United Nations
Model General Assembly. The main purpose of the enterprise is to learn more about the role and the activities of
the United Nations in the world, its failures, and its successes. More than 80 countries will be represented by four-man
delegations from the participating colleges and universities. Sponsored by the Student Council, the delegation from Davidson is made up of
George Nzongola, John Thomas, Tom Earnhardt, and Sam Johnson. The delegates have prepared themselves for the assembly by learning as
much as possible about the Dominican Republic—stressing its internal problems and its role in international relations. On the international scene,
the delegation will be interested mostly in general matters such as the need for peace and international cooperation against poverty,
famine, and ignorance. Commenting on the forthcoming assembly, Nzongola stated, “We look forward to participating as fully as we can
and to learning more about a world that is quite different from Davidson's drinking and fraternity problems. The only question
that remains for us is ‘How close can we get to the real Dominican Republic?’”

Slater Service

“I realize the Slater image is poor with students here,” he said. “My job is to build it up with
better-than-standard service. This restaurant idea is just one additional service to offer.” The dinner, which will be held in the
main cafeteria room, will offer waiter service, “orders to order” and food prepared a-la-carte. The meals will range in price
from $1.25 to $3.50. Included on the bill of fare will be appetizers, three styles of steak, a variety of
seafood, vegetables, rolls and hush puppies, beverages, and desserts. “It'll be the best place to eat within 20 miles,” promised
Social Council Chairman Dan Campbell. If the restaurant is successful next weekend, Beckham promises to make it a regular feature
at big weekends. The restaurant is as yet unnamed, and the Social Council is sponsoring a “Name the Restaurant” contest,
with the winner receiving a free dinner for himself and his date Saturday night. According to Beckham, the name should
be “something that will be appealing, something we won't get tired of.” All entries should be turned in to the
Union desk by Saturday morning.

APATHY CLUB

“Several years ago,” Nelson observed, “almost every campus had an apathy club which met periodically to choose the apathy of
the week.” He estimated that even today about 80 percent of students just do not care. “Apathy is pretty characteristic
of this generation,” according to the speaker, who summed up the prevailing campus attitude in these words: “Blessed is he
that expecteth nothing for he shall not be disappointed.” Nelson went on to surmise that this unconcern is the result
of the fact that students have “left home but don't have family responsibility. It's a rather unreal kind of time.”
“As a result,” he said, “most of you are vocationally undecided to an extent that has not been true in
the past.” This in turn causes a man to lose his energy and ambition before he knows what to do
with it.

Eat Under Tropical Palms

TASTEE FREEZ

Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches Daily Food Specials TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING
Small and Large PIZZAS 50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West
Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. Phone ED 2-2414 MOORESVILLE
