Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

John Topp Editor-in-Chief
IRVINE WELLING Business Manager
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Hope For NDEA

The unanimous decision of a Congressional subcommittee last week to block President Johnson’s plans to destroy the National Defense Education Act student loan program is a boon to the nation’s colleges’ attempts to provide funds for every student who may need them.

In his budget for the coming fiscal year, beginning July 1, the President proposed to scrap the NDEA in favor of a fanciful program of federally subsidized, privately financed loans. The nearly 100 Davidson students who depend on the federal loans for part of their expenses would be placed in a precarious position in regard to their financial plans for next year.

Since its beginning in 1958, the program has been an important part of the financial aid set-up at Davidson. Over $200,000 has been appropriated through the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid during the past seven years. According to Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, the program could become self-sustaining in a few years, because money is now being repaid into the fund with the former borrowers showing a relatively good repayment record.

As it stands, the college may not have the funds to carry out the program, since the President did not request an extension of the program. Under the President’s substitute program, there would be no assurance that the most needy students would receive aid. Since more students may be eligible in future years, there would be a chance of insufficient funds from the new combination federal-private outfit.

In drawing up the new budget, the President must have decided to cut back on some domestic outlays in light of the bulging expense of the Vietnamese war. So, he chose the elimination of NDEA, which would cut nearly $180 million out of the budget for next year.

The President, then, is proposing to junk a proven loan program and to replace it with a flaunting scheme which only spells disaster for many low-income students. The program is not out of danger yet; however, the unanimous approval of the House Education subcommittee to uphold the program foretells an easier road ahead.

We hope that Congress sees fit to further the present loan program and that the President in the future will keep his “politicking” hands out of the field of education.

Soft Approach

Davidson’s Student Council has often been accused of taking a lackadaisical approach to things this year, but we're afraid that the student government at East Tennessee State University has really shown their backside in matters of student concern. The folks over in the hills of Johnson City just don’t want to put up with things that rub them the wrong way. Instead of messing around, they seem to really get down to the seat of things.

Earlier this month a bill was introduced in the student senate demanding that the school provide softer toilet paper. The student Liaison Council approved the bill and sent it along to the business manager of the school. We don’t mean to wipe out the Davidson council by any means, but the folks at ETSU have certainly taken the cake-roll in this one.

Dangers Of Sing Out

Davidson students have been delightfully entertained recently by the representatives of “Sing Out ’66.” We were captured by the group, too, and emphatically endorse the vibrant aggregation—as long as they are singing. They are an exciting, colorful and healthy bunch with a sincere desire to better America.

The troupe has been a hit wherever it goes. In Columbia, S. C., several weeks ago, it filled the local auditorium to overflowing. In Charlotte last week, more than 13,000 people—the second largest crowd to pack the Coliseum—cheered the group into encore after encore.

But disguised behind all the foot-stomping and smiles of these 150 young people is the dangerous philosophy of Moral Re-Armament, Inc. MRA is an ideology based on four ideals: love, justice, unselfishness and purity. But these tenets are merely catchwords behind which hides the stealth of MRA.

The Rev. Frank Buchman, a Lutheran minister who founded MRA, was quoted in The New York World-Telegram 30 years ago as advocating a “God-controlled fascist dictatorship.” As one critic of the program said: “Have you ever had any cotton candy? Well, that’s what Moral Re-Armament is. Tastes good, but that’s all there is to it.”

The young people undoubtedly have a refreshing, positive outlook which can do much to revitalize a bedraggled portion of the population of the world—the youth across the globe. Victimizing their audience with some really great, professional entertainment, the members of “Sing Out ’66” seek to sell individuals on some pie-in-the-sky hopes and some cheap literature, which only adds to the bulging pockets of their reactionary leaders.

We wish the students well with their top-notch entertainment. But we caution their listeners to the ominous machine that lies veiled behind the excitement.

Irony In Southeast Asia

Ironic. While the U.S. spends billions of dollars and over 200,000 men to hold up a small toppling “domino” on the Asian mainland, a much more important nation falls—with no help at all—from us. Indonesia, the world’s fifth largest nation, has taken a quick tumble in our direction—or at least sideways toward the Soviet Union.

All this with the U.S. State Department, the New York Times, even the Associated Press kicked out of the country. No commitment, no containment, no green berets. Nothing.

It’s ironic also that, while the U.S. feels a need to defend the freedom of the South Vietnamese against the ruthless terrorism of the Viet Cong, the State Department “couldn't hold back its glee” upon hearing the news that Sukarno had handed over key powers to Suharto and the army: the same army, of course, who led the nation’s Moslem population in the annihilation of over 150,000 “Communist sympathizers” last fall, the same army which was commanded to “eliminate all remaining traces” of the Communists after taking power this week.

But of course, we could do nothing about that—it was none of our business, we must let the Indonesians decide. A statement from us in the UN or from the President would have meant nothing.

—Robert Carney in The Michigan Daily.

The Deadly Cloak

Now is the season for symposiums, forums and organized discussions on current affairs on college campuses across the country—except at Davidson. We are somewhat embarrassed to read of the ambitious and stimulating programs which have been arranged at various schools, while Davidson seems to be content with discussing her own particular issues of vespers, fraternities and drinking.

Two years ago a YMCA sponsored Great Issues program struggled to get off the ground but failed to make any headway. Yet, Davidson has never hosted a concise, symposium-type program which has been so successful at other colleges recently.

Next month Virginia Tech, a scientifically oriented school, is hosting a symposium on racial problems and the Viet Nam war. Individuals taking part in the VPI program are Roy Wilkins, James Jackson Kilpatrick, Norman Thomas and George Cabot Lodge. At the same time Vanderbilt is sponsoring a weekend symposium with Barry Goldwater, Arthur Steiner and John Seigenthaler included among the participants to discuss “America’s New Global Challenge.” Emory will soon be host to a conference on conservatism.

Without de-emphasizing the problems which are Davidson's alone, we believe that such symposiums would definitely prevent the deadly cloak of provincialism from dominating the intellectual discussion here. At times THE DAVIDSONIAN has been accused of contributing to this infamous cloak, and perhaps there is some verity to this charge. Yet, we are foremost a campus newspaper and are bound to report and interpret the issues and events here first of all.

We hope that some organization—or even an ad hoc group with the specific aim of promoting a worthwhile symposium at Davidson—will consider seriously plans for such a program here next year.

(Editor’s note: A satirical comment on the “God Is Dead Movement,” written by Anthony Towne in the style of The New York Times, appeared in the February issue of Motive, a Methodist student publication at Nashville, Tenn. This shortened version of the “obituary” was published recently by The New York Times.)

SATIRICAL COMMENT

N. Y. Times Publishes ‘Obituary’ For God

Special to The New York Times

Atlanta, Ga., Nov. 9—God, creator of the universe, principal deity of the world's Jews, ultimate reality of Christians, and most eminent of all divinities, died late yesterday during major surgery undertaken to correct a massive diminishing influence.

His exact age is not known, but close friends estimate that it greatly exceeded that of all other extant beings. The cause of death could not be immediately determined, but the deity’s surgeon, Thomas J. J. Altizer, 36, of Emory University in Atlanta, indicated possible cardiac insufficiency. Assisting Dr. Altizer in the unsuccessful surgery were Dr. Paul van Buren of Temple University, Philadelphia; Dr. William Hamilton of Colgate-Rochester, Rochester, N. Y., and Dr. Gabriel Vahanian of Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y.

In Johnson City, Tex., President Johnson at once directed that all flags should be at half-staff until after the funeral. The First Lady and two Presidential daughters, Luci and Lynda, were understood to have wept openly. Both houses of Congress met in Washington at noon today and promptly adjourned after passing a joint resolution expressing “grief and great respect for the departed spiritual leader.” Senator Wayne Morse, Democrat of Oregon, objected on the grounds thatthe resolution violated the principle of separation of church and state, but he was overruled by Vice President Hubert Humphrey, who remarked that “this is not a time for partisan politics.”

Plans for the deity’s funeral are incomplete. Reliable sources suggested that extensive negotiations may be necessary in order to select a church for the services and an appropriate liturgy. Reaction from the world’s great and from the man in the street was uniformly incredulous. “At least he’s out of his misery,” commented one housewife in an Elmira, N.Y. supermarket. “I can't believe it,” said the Right Rev. Horace W. B. Donegan, Protestant Episcopal Bishop of New York. In Paris, President de Gaulle, in a 30-second appearance on national television, proclaimed, “God is dead! Long live the republic! Long live France!” President Johnson was described by aides as “profoundly upset.”

Dear Editor:

We are convinced that the vespers petition and boycott was, for many reasons, of great and lasting value to the Davidson College Community. The main purpose of the boycott was to allow students to express, in a definite way, their opposition to a feature of Davidson life which they have long complained about. The intention was not to pressure the powers-that-be into hasty action, but to demonstrate our belief that change is needed.

Few Davidson students know or even conceive of the power which they may exert upon the administration for a worthwhile cause. This power, namely action of an overt nature, was more in evidence at Davidson this past week than it has been for a long time. A mere handful of students, believing sincerely in their cause, brought action to the Davidson campus by producing a special meeting of the Religious Life Committee, an Open End discussion with President Martin devoted largely to the Vesper issue, and an invitation to meet with the Religious Life Committee. At this meeting, we presented a petition signed by over 700 students, calling for the abolition of compulsory vespers. In addition, we presented positive proposals for a religious program based on voluntary participation.

We believe that the best way for the Davidson student to grow in maturity, spiritual and otherwise, is to allow him, as much as possible, to make choices rather than having these choices made for him. We resent certain Davidson policies which stem from the principle of ‘in loco parentis.’ We believe that you can fill a church pew but you cannot compel worship. Furthermore, we think that many prevalent anti-religious attitudes among students can be traced to the factor of compulsion. A vigorous religious program based on voluntary participation is both more in keeping with Christian principles and more likely to effect individual Christian commitment than mandatory exercises.

Calvin Zon
Buzz Hardin

Davidson College Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
JOHNNY CLARK
DICK SPENCER
TOM CRAIG
Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
Photography Editor
TOM THEL
Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
Photographers
BILL OLSON
DONALD DAVIS
CHIP PURVIS
Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
Cartoonists
LOU HILL
PAUL MARION
Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK
News Editor
SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor
LINDSAY DAVIS
Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK
Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
Advertising Manager
BOB HOLLADAY
Circulation Manager
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Yates Faison, Joel Keys, Don Sewell, Chip Robertson, Bob Reid, Kent Gladstone, Bruce Weihe, Toby Watt, John Williams, Ron Snow, Allen Webb, Ed Embree, Bill Graham, Cameron Ferguson, Gray Pash, Dick Richards, Bill Seigler, Carter Fussell, and Charles McEwen.

News of the death was included in a one-sentence statement, without comment, on the 3rd page of Izvestia, official organ of the Soviet government. The passing of God has not been disclosed to the 800 million Chinese who live behind the bamboo curtain. Public reaction in this country was perhaps summed up by an elderly retired streetcar conductor in Passaic, N.J., who said: “I never met him, of course. Never even saw him. But from what I heard I guess he was a real nice fellow. Tops.” From Independence, Mo., former President Harry S. Truman, who received the news in his Kansas City barbershop, said: “I'm always sorry to hear somebody is dead. It’s a damn shame.” In Gettysburg, Pa., former President Dwight D. Eisenhower released through a military aide the following statement: “Mrs. Eisenhower joins me in heartfelt sympathy to the family and many friends of the late God. He was, I always felt, a force for moral good in the universe. Those of us who were privileged to know him admired the probity of his character, the breadth of his compassion, the depth of his intellect. Generous almost to a fault, his many acts of kindness to America will never be forgotten. It is a very great loss indeed. He will be missed.”

From Basel, Switzerland, came word that Dr. Karl Barth, venerable Protestant theologian, informed of the death of God, declared: “I don’t know who died in Atlanta, but whoever he was he’s an impostor.” Dr. Altizer, God's surgeon, in an exclusive interview with The Times, stated this morning that the death was “not unexpected.” “He had been ailing for some time,” Dr. Altizer said, “and lived much longer than most of us thought possible.” He noted that the death of God had, in fact, been prematurely announced in the last century by the famed German surgeon, Nietzsche. Nietzsche, who was insane the last 10 years of his life, may have confused certain symptoms of morbidity in the aged patient with actual death, a mistake any busy surgeon will occasionally make. Dr. Altizer suggested, “God was an excellent patient, compliant, cheerful, alert. Every comfort modern science could provide was made available to him. He did not suffer—he just, as it were, slipped out of our hands.”

Cat O' Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

THE BOYCOTT THAT WASN’T

That intended boycott of compulsory Vespers last Sunday night was one of the most publicized flops on campus this year. It was a farce from the start. Even one of its avowed sponsors told me he was going to morning services so that he wouldn’t get a cut. He added: “We want to emphasize our protest as symbolic.” Symbolic of what? As against required religious services? Going to required morning services is a protest? He could have done this kind of protest every Sunday of the year. Anyway, some 250 students were in Vespers Sunday night, about normal attendance for this time of year. I note an attempt by Buzz Hardin and Calvin Zon (on this page) to save a little face for the boycotters. My suggestion to you, Buzz and Calvin and other students, is this—assuming of course you are genuinely interested in preserving some kind of religious emphasis at Davidson: Form some kind of action group to stress your own religious beliefs. Force the administration to give you equal time for your own religious services. Seek out Presbyterians and others and challenge their beliefs, in order to define your own. In this way you show your own intrinsic belief that religion is important enough to be worthy of an intellectual quest here at Davidson College. But the only thing that interests most people about any curtailment of vespers is the possibility of having one less exercise to attend.

THE RABBI CAME TO TEA

Rabbi Rubenstein came to town Monday and presented an interesting analysis of the God-Is-Dead theology. One problem he left untouched: If there is no knowable moral order and all moral commitments are equally valid, why should one choose a Sartrean ethic (as did he) over any other ethic? How should one choose between his ethic and, say, that of the Nazis? Still, this visiting fireman left some interesting and unanswered questions to reflect upon. What distressed me was the sophomoric quality of most student questioning. I fear this reveals a rather immature and underdeveloped intellectual group of students.

HOW ABOUT THAT?

Davidson College now has 14 coaches on its athletic staff—about one coach for every 70 students. Lord love a duck, there is only one Bible prof for every 140 students. Even the pre-med staff can’t come close to the record of the athletic department. Just goes to show that either we have one whale of a phys. ed. major or at least most of the students here are on some intercollegiate team. What, we don’t have either? Oh well, take heart. A couple more years of siphoning funds from those earmarked for a new library, new books, and new educational equipment should soon make quite a difference.

ONE MORE FOR THE ROAD

If the administration can stop adding more coaches for a year or two, there is another crying need for funds on this campus: new dorms to replace those dingy dungeons called Cannon, East, and West. You parents who read this column should have a lot of sympathy for your boy if he rooms in one of these dorms. In the spring and early fall, he is roasted alive. In the winter, he is deafened by creaking steam pipes and floors. Most of the furnishings were rescued from the Titanic and the lighting is equivalent to that of any good basement sub-lease.