Page Six November 11, 1966 The Davidsonian

Confusion about who is eligible for funds has thrown Davidson's Work Study program under close scrutiny by the admissions office.
The program was launched by Congress in 1964. It was originally intended to provide financial aid for students from low-income
families. During the program's first year on campus, the federal government supplies 90 percent of the funds and the college
provides 10 percent. This money is intended to pay the salaries of new jobs especially created for the program.

REVIEW TOPIC
“She Stoops to Conquer” opened last night at Hobson Hall. The Drama Department will repeat the production at 8:15 p.m.
tonight and tomorrow. (Staff Photo by Olson)

BY SWEAT OF BROW
(Staff Photo by Olson) Keaton Fonvielle (L) and Scott Cutting Hold Study Jobs.

Council Debates Duties, Revitalization Of Clubs
Discussion concerning the revitalization of Davidson interest clubs highlighted the Student Council meeting Monday morning. B. J. Watson, chairman of
the Student Council Student Activities Committee, introduced the idea, stressing that the possible “revitalization” was “only an inquiry to determine
Student Council opinion.” The first point of Watson's inquiry called for all campus organizations to publish a constitution. Watson stated
that several people felt that “no organization can function accurately unless its purposes are stated.”

The council criticized this point, referring to the Debate Club as an example, whose statement of purpose would merely make
a constitution superfluous. Watson also asked whether it should be essential for all clubs to undertake a project during the
year, such as the Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity directory or the French Club's speaker program. Several council members opposed
this, the objection being that projects should come from the club members’ own initiative, not from Student Council ultimatums. Watson
tabled further discussion and said he would discuss the matter further with faculty members and club presidents.

Lloyd Redefines Evil:
In chapel yesterday, Lloyd redefined evil from both theory and practice. Lloyd has concluded that it is boring. He remembered
the time when a certain Italian prince, who was enjoying a discount, had his illusion shattered.

White Investigates Use Of Work-Study Funds
H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, explained that the restriction about students from low-income families was relaxed,
as so few colleges made use of the program. Special consideration is still given to students of low-income families, but
now the college can use the remaining funds for any student in need of aid. Davidson has some students who
qualified for the aid under the original restriction. All were offered work-study jobs and most are working. Other students in
need of aid have also received some of the program’s funds. A student considered in need of aid would not
be offered program funds if he held a scholarship. There has been some dissatisfaction among other student workers.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

Feature Editor:
LINDSAY DAVIS

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Head Photographer:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Don Sewell, Danny White, Bob Albee, Dale Durham, John Huggins, Bob Stubbs, Rick Saunders, Bruce Weihe, Dan Graham, Jim Cooley,
Ken Cool, Gary Sigmon, Bob Dunham, Heyward Whetsell, Marvin Ellison, Robert Pyeatt, John Barber, Bob Buchanan, Cameron Ferguson, Johnny Rowe,
Franklin Anderson, Joe Jones, Ed Embree, Danny Coltrane, Toby Watt, Marvine Bethune, Bill Cochrill, and Lewis Lavine.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.because the Work-Study
Program participants are paid a higher wage. The college salary is $1.00 per hour whereas the Work-Study Program pays $1.25
per hour. Some students have been forced out of jobs as priority is given to program participants, even though the
program was designed to create new jobs. It was not intended to affect previously existing jobs. White emphasized that $2450
a year (minimum expense for 1966) is a substantial sum and comprises a considerable portion of many families’ income. As
long as Davidson has the funds, students in need of aid will receive it through campus employment in the Work-Study
Program. Some of the students on the program have quit because they have found off-campus jobs. The employers in the
program agree that it is worthwhile and are impressed by the work of the students. Most of the students appreciate
the value of the program, as it helps relieve their parents of a financial burden, White said.

THE COLLEGE MASTER
No War Exclusion Clause or full coverage while in the Military Service
Exclusive for College Men
From coast to coast the Leaders in Sales to College Men
PRESTON SIZEMORE
College Master Representative
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 366-4311
FIDELITY UNION LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

after “the prince applied himself so that he could get any

THE GAKS MOTOR COURT
Modern - Reasonable
344 S. Main St.
Mooresville, N. C.
Tel. 663-5693
Owners & Mgrs. Gal and Hazel Sprinkle

Calls Good Happiness. Claiming to be an expert on evil, Charles Lloyd, assistant professor of English, discussed Christ's first miracle:
turning water into wine for the pleasure of the guests, said Lloyd. He did this because he knows that the
devil wants us so wretched that we will accept his counterfeits of the happiness of God's love. Having been acquainted
with the novice libertines admired

Beleo Dry Charge BATTERIES
“For Fresh Starts Simply Say Delco”
Ask For Davidson

GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
1388 Central Ave. 375-3296

Drawing from his experiences on the left bank in Paris, Lloyd the novice libertines admired man he wanted. Citing Greek
definitions, Lloyd explained that truth is something which is made obvious to us while evil is derived from a word
meaning suffering. He adopted a positive approach to the question of good in describing it as far less the shunning
of prescribed acts than the response to love. “To love

White Will Help Merit Program
H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, has been named to the 16-member selection committee for the 1967
Merit Scholarship Program. The committee includes college admissions officers and secondary school guidance counselors who are charged with selecting National
Merit Scholarship winners from a group of about 14,000 finalists. The committee will hold its meetings in the Evanston, IL
area the week of Jan. 16, 1967, according to Dr. John N. Stalnaker, president of the National Merit Scholarship Corporation.

Here’s a hot tip: give to THE DAVIDSONIAN’s Curriculum Committee drive next week. Look for a DAVIDSONIAN staff member next
week - a dollar won't hurt.

SHERRILLS JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

490 CID V-8. Full 115-inch wheelbase. Heavy-duty springs, shock absorbers, shaft. Sway bars, front and rear. High-performance axle. Dual exhausts.
Beefed-up wheels. White-Line or wide-oval Red-Line tires. Bucket seats. Louvered hood. Higher oil pressure. They're all standard goodies at one
modest price. Available also, if you wish—Rocket Rally Pac, UHV ignition, superstock wheels, front disc brakes and the like. Put
one into action and you'll agree: 1967 Olds 4-4-2 is the sweetest, neatest, completest anti-boredom bundle on rubber!
