Page Six October 21, 1966 The Davidsonian

Stimulus Draws Very Favorable Reaction

By AL VARNER
Staff Writer

Reactions have been overwhelmingly favorable to the student-faculty dialogue started in Monday's meetings of the YMCA Stimulus Programs. The current
Stimulus program consists of three groups, each with five or six professors and students. Each group has two leaders, one
student and one professor. The meetings are to be held monthly in either fraternity houses or faculty homes.

The leaders for the three groups are Dr. Louise Nelson and Mike Bates, Dr. Philip Secor and Steve Humphries, and
Dr. Locke White and Chuck Matthews. Faculty leaders were impressed with the results of the first meetings. “I enjoy hearing
students’ views,” commented Dr. Kelton, a faculty participant. “I especially like the idea of using tapes as discussion material.” Dr.
White commended the program and said, “It is desirable for students and faculty to talk on a more equal basis
than is possible in the classroom.” Dr. Charles Lloyd, another faculty discussion member, commented on the scale of the program
and pointed to the excitement generated in the meetings. “I think it is very important to get insight into others’
minds on big ideas. I learn a whole lot, and it’s a good opportunity to blow off steam, which I
may do too much. I am amazed at people’s tolerance, though, because I get pretty impossible in those discussions,” Lloyd
commented.

In making up the separate groups, Mooty admits that he tried to avoid any great personality conflicts between faculty members.
“But you can't put three professors together without disagreement on something," Mooty said, “and I think this is healthy.” Monday
night two groups discussed parts of Kenneth Boulding's book, The Meaning of the Twentieth Century, while the other talked about
a tape recording, “Capitalism and Democracy.” Mooty cited the sexual revolution and the role of mass media in the U.S.
as possible topics for the future. The final decision on which topic will be covered rests on the individual group's
leaders. Mooty said, “The program grew out of the need for a structural relationship between students and faculty, and I
feel it presents a rare opportunity. If there is any advantage to Davidson at all, it's the possibility of participation
in something like this.”

Scientific Method Denounced

Scholastic use of the scientific method was declared invalid by Tuesday's chapel speaker, Paul Craig Roberts. Because good and bad
judgments cannot be conclusively proved by the scientific method, he said, modern scholars feel that these judgments must be omitted
when talking about science. This leads to an age of skepticism and doubt which has marks of hypocrisy. Outwardly professors
teach their students to doubt, but, Roberts concluded, “the teachers want you to doubt what others teach you, but not
what they teach you.”

“What I want you to doubt is the outlook of modern scholarship, period,” he emphasized. He pointed out that neurologists
claim they can explain the mind in terms of chemistry: D. O. Hebb says that since the mind is not
a definite fact, “we must doubt its existence.” This atmosphere of skepticism, Roberts said, encourages man to “seek refuge for
traditional opinions” through doubt, rejecting authority and believing only what can be ascertained by knowledge. Roberts claimed that the doctrine
of doubt is inconsistent. If it were consistent, everyone would become “unlearned debaters.” It is not objective detachment but reverence
which allows the recognition of great men.

He criticized fields such as social anthropology and sociology for teaching without regard to moral values. “Head-hunting can be justified
by saying... that it promotes good economic and cultural relations...; morality is replaced by conformity...; sociologists do not ask whether
social actions are good or bad, but simply explain them.” Evil is considered good, he said, if it is “functional.”
Stalin, who “murdered more than Hitler,” is considered a success because he industrialized Russia. Intellectuals are not opposed to communist
tyranny “if not outside certain bounds.”

In a coffee hour following his talk, Roberts continued to discuss these ideas with students and faculty members.

Ratliff Describes Pakistan Situation

By JOE JONES
Staff Writer

Pakistan and the experiences of an economist-missionary there were described by Dr. Charles E. Ratliff, professor of economics, at Open
End Wednesday night. He has just returned to Davidson this year following three years as a professor at Forman Christian
College in Lahore. Ratliff began by describing the economic situation. Pakistan, with half the population of the U.S., has a
gross national product of $8 billion compared to $100 billion for the U.S. There are a few extremely wealthy families,
and the masses are very poor despite a land reform. He told of seeing people whose homes were “under a
burlap bag put over some sticks.”

Under a twenty-year economic plan, the government of Pakistan plans to triple the GNP and to double the per capita
income. “Islam does not oppose birth control as does the Roman Catholic Church. However, some Moslems are opposed to birth
control,” he said. He traced this opposition to the family system, which, as one Pakistani told him, is their “social
security.”

In giving reasons for Pakistan's low productivity Ratliff stated, “Education may be the single most important factor in economic development.”
Lack of technical skills is another problem. “I had to show a guy how to use a screwdriver.” Other problems
include poor health, remnants of the caste system, and failure to utilize natural resources. “They are getting one-sixth of what
is possible from land as rich as that in the U.S.,” he said.

Two Visiting Scholars To Speak On Campus

Two distinguished scholars, participants in the Visiting Scholars program, will appear on campus next week. Dr. Douglas V. Steere, Thomas
Wistar Brown Professor Emeritus of philosophy at Haverford College, will speak at chapel Tuesday. Dr. Paul B. Weisz, professor of
biology at Brown University, will lecture Friday at 9:20 a.m. in Dana Science Building.

Steere has been teaching since 1921 and has held a number of lecturing positions. He has written several books and
is currently chairman of the Friends World Committee. Weisz, professor at Brown since 1947, is a specialist in embryology, morphogenesis,
and cytochemistry. He is the author of a number of books and technical papers. Both men will be guests of
the college at luncheons following their talks.

Dr. Alvin Boskoff, a sociologist from Emory University, was the first of the Visiting Scholars on campus this year. Boskoff
spoke in chapel October 12. The purpose of the Visiting Scholars program is to provide better and nationally-known scholars to
speak on the campus. The college has joined 17 other area schools in the Piedmont University Center Program, now in
its fourth year. Sponsored by the Babcock Foundation, the program has its offices in the Reynolds Estate in Winston-Salem. Dr.
Paul Marrotte, associate professor of history, is Davidson's representative in the PUCP. “The Visiting Scholar is only one of the
areas of interest of the program,” he said. “There is also a Faculty Summer Study Program and an educational film
supply, plus others of equal value,” he commented.

“There are several distinct advantages in the program,” Marrotte continued. Schools are able to bring in nationally-known speakers for a
half-day appearance at a reduced rate, which some would not ordinarily be able to afford.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

Feature Editor:
LINDSAY DAVIS

Contributors this week:
DON GRAHAM, KEN COOL, JOHNNY ROWE, KEN HAMILTON, BRUCE WEIHE, STEVE BARBER, GARY SIGMON, FRANKLIN ANDERSON, CHUCK GREEN, BRODIE BROWN,
TOM WHEATLEY, JOHN HUGGINS, JOHN WILLIAMS, BOB BUCHANAN, CARTER FUSSELL, ROBERT PYEATT, DALE DURHAM, CHARLES BROCKWELL, DON SEWELL, RICK SAUNDERS,
BOB STUBBS, GEORGE ROBINSON, LEWIS LAVINE, GEORGE CRETEKOS, DANNY COLTRANE, TOBY WATT

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISERand Bill Cockrill. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50) to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.,
28036. Payable to do alone. PUCP pays half of the speaker’s fee and all of his travel expenses, and the
member school pays the other half. A representative of each school submits names to be invited. “About 50 invitations,” said
Marrotte, “are sent out each year, and usually around 15 scholars accept.” “Davidson,” added Marrotte, “of course would have less
trouble than some other member schools, but it is true that it is easier to get scholars to come for
a series of lectures rather than for a half-day."

Survey (Continued from Page One)

them?" The reason that the study is being conducted now instead of in conjunction with the Faculty Curriculum Evaluation Committee’s
study is that any benefits which might come from this independent study could be initiated before the completion of the
faculty study. To illustrate what they consider needs to be done, Powell and Prosser referred to their own field of
interest, political science. “There are only two men in the department and one of these two spends half of his
teaching load on the Humanities program,” said Prosser. “There can be only six courses per semester in the department.” Both
men said that they would like to see additional men and courses added, thus giving more diversity and strength to
the department. In Powell's opinion, as a result of a strengthened department, many more students would major in political science,
particularly those students who plan to attend law school. Prosser said that the committee would also study the student-teacher ratio
in the social science departments and compare these with the other departments at Davidson, and with the social science departments
at Amherst, Williams, and other leading liberal arts colleges.

of the Imperial Valley,” Ratliff explained. “If you ask a (Christian) Pakistani his religion, he will probably say ‘Christian’ rather
than name a denomination.” The religions encountered by Ratliff included Christianity, Islam, and Parsee, which stems from Zoroastrianism. Elaborating on
the Parsee religion, he said that they are fire worshippers and tend to be businessmen. One businessman “even had a
little bacon under the counter if you wanted to pay about $3 a pound for it.” One unusual Parsee practice
is their method of burial. When a man dies, he is hung in a “silent tower” and vultures remove his
flesh before he is buried. Concerning the activity of the church, Ratliff said, “Missionaries do not run Pakistani institutions. They
come at Pakistan’s invitation.” He told of a plant manager of Corning Glass who read The Ugly American and asked
to be sent as a missionary. Bribery and other types of corruption are quite open. Ratliff told of his difficulties
in getting an import permit, which was finally obtained through the influence of a friend of the local minister. He
also told of openly preferential treatment given to athletes in school. “They take a government test... if he’s an athlete,
they add 100 marks.”

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Russell Stover Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS
“Your Neighborhood Drug Store”
Davidson, N. C.

INTERNATIONAL CUISINE
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

TASTEE FREEZ
Cornelius
Pizza
Sandwiches
ICE CREAM

PARAMOUNT PICTURES presents (RECOMMENDED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES)
MICHAEL CAINE: ALFIE
MILLICENT MARTIN © JULIA FOSTER © JANE ASHER © SHIRLEY ANNE FIELD
LONDON—SUNDAY TELEGRAPH
VIVIEN MERCHANT © ELEANOR BRON © with SHELLEY WINTERS AS RUBY
TECHNICOLOR® TECHNISCOPE®
NOW
Features at 1:09, 3:12, 5:15, 7:18, and 9:21
Price 1.25 nights 1.00 afternoons
All weekends $1.25
PLAZA THEATER
Charlotte, N. C.
1630 Central Ave.

In his chapel speech, Roberts managed to arouse the excitement that had faltered in his formal speech. He repeated his
basic contention that the scientific method as an objective collection of facts is more useful to “compilers of lexicons and
telephone directories” than to searchers for basic truths about the world. An instinctual feeling of man for truth was the
basis of Roberts’ attack upon neurological explanations of the mind. “Will you admit that the mind is of a higher
level than the body?” he queried. “Scientists can't even explain machines in terms of physics and chemistry; they have to
use engineering principles. How then can they expect to explain the mind in such terms?”

Roberts constructed a hierarchy of existence in a man. On the lowest level are the chemical and physical properties. Superimposed
on the “boundary” of these principles are those of biology which give man life. Above this level lies consciousness or
sentience. Morality is of yet a higher sphere. He admitted that some understanding of the higher levels is possible by
exploring the inferior levels, but he blasted science for its attempt to understand all about man in terms of the
lowest orders of existence. One of the harmful results of this attempt, he contended, is the destruction of the “hero,”
which will in turn lead to the stagnation of moral and cultural progress. If there are no heroes, he said,
a culture has no impetus to improve itself.

For the past three years, Roberts has been studying epistemology with Michael Polanyi, who gave the basis for much of
Roberts’ thought. Roberts is a graduate of Georgia Tech, and he has completed his doctorate in economics requirements at the
University of Virginia where he has held several honorary fellowships. He has been an exchange student to the Soviet Union,
studied in Germany, and was a graduate research student at Berkeley where he came to disavow his earlier belief in
socialism. A former Reims Scholar at Oxford, Roberts now teaches economics at Virginia Tech.

CASHION’S GULF SERVICE
COMPLETE AUTOMOBILE SERVICE
HANDLING YOUR LOCAL GULF OIL PRODUCTS
PHONE 892-9308
MAIN ST. DAVIDSON

Hungry D To Offer Breakfast

Davidson’s Hungry D supper club will operate again this year under the direction of Bill Beckham, supervisor of the college
cafeteria. Started last year, the Hungry D supper club is intended to work in conjunction with the Social Council for
student benefit during special functions. For Homecoming, the Hungry D will, as in the past, be a restaurant with waiters
and waitresses. The only meal which will be served will be a breakfast from 2-4 a.m. on Saturday, Oct. 29.
At other functions throughout the year there may be increased services from the restaurant. Beckham stated that he regarded the
Hungry D as being “above and beyond the regular dining service, a special entity to aid the Davidson College students.”

With the approach of Homecoming, everyone is beginning to think of what they want to wear. At RUSH WILSON, Ltd.
you can find a nice selection of suits, sport coats, plaid slacks, shirts, and sweaters. Don't let Homecoming catch you
without a new outfit. Come in today and let us help you make a selection for the first big weekend.

Rush Wilson, Ltd.
DAVIDSON
GREENVILLE, S. C.

This is Russ Kennedy of Balboa Island, California, on an in-port field trip as a student aboard Chapman College's floating
campus. The note he paused to make as fellow students went ahead to inspect Hatshepsut's Tomb in the Valley of
the Kings near Luxor, he used to complete an assignment for his Comparative World Cultures professor. Russ transferred the 12
units earned during the study-travel semester at sea to his record at the University of California at Irvine where he
continues studies toward a teaching career in life sciences. As you read this, 450 other students have begun the fall
semester voyage of discovery with Chapman aboard the S.S. RYNDAM, for which Holland-America Line acts as General Passenger Agents. In
February, still another 450 will embark from Los Angeles for the spring 1967 semester, this time bound for the Panama
Canal, Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, Nigeria, Senegal, Morocco, Spain, Portugal, The Netherlands, Denmark, Great Britain, and New York. For a catalog
describing how you can include a semester at sea in your educational plans, fill in the information below and mail.

Director of Admissions
Chapman College
Orange, California 92666

Name
(Last) (First)
Present Status
College University
(indicate Home or College/University)
Freshman ☐ Sophomore ☐ Junior ☐ Senior ☐ Graduate ☐
Address
City State Zip
Telephone

The Ryndam is of West German registry.
