PAGE SIX

OLD REGIME GOES

To mark the end of his DAVIDSONIAN career, Editor Emeritus John Todd hosted over 50 staffers at the annual newspaper
banquet Monday night in the College Union. In the photo at left, new editor Louis Lesesne (center) congratulates Bob Travers
(right) for receiving the D. G. Martin Award. Rob- bie Hooker, at left, was the other recipient of the recognition
given to outstanding first-year reporters. In the photo at right, Perry Morgan, editor of The Charlotte News, speaks to the
campus journalists on the importance of effective communications. (Staff Photos by Olson)

Todd Joins Select Assembly Of Nostalgic Former Editors

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

How does it feel to be a former editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN? Only a few men in history can answer
that question. John Todd, the most recent initiate to that select group, talked about it as he reminisced about his
year as leader of “The Voice of the Davidson Student Body.”

“A lot of people have asked me if I would do it again,” Todd said. “I guess I would. I
guess I've accomplished a little. There are a lot of things I’d do just the same as I did; others,
I've learned by experience, I'd like to change.”

His biggest complaint about the job was the lack of participation and sympathy with the problems of putting out a
newspaper by students not on the staff. He remarked, “I think the students should realize it is the paper of
the students and it's their place to make suggestions to the staff about material. It’s tough to sit around and
dig up everything that goes on around here.”

Student interest in actual work on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff has been high, however, according to Todd. There have been over
70 people contributing to putting out the paper over the past year. “I don't think that that many people would
take part if they didn’t think it was worthwhile,” Todd noted.

Largely because of this enthusiasm on the part of some, the Davidson publication outstrips most newspapers of comparably-sized schools in
both size and quality. One of the advantages of a good newspaper is the opportunity it presents for journalistic experience,
he claimed. “Students on the staff don't seem to realize the potential of a journalistic career just because we don't
have a journalism department.” He pointed out that many Davidson graduates have done well in journalism, including the writer of
this week’s Time cover story.

Todd has been accused by some of not really representing student opinion on the editorial page. For this, he made
no excuses. “I think the editor would be reneging on his journalistic responsibility if he were influenced too much by
student opinion. The editorial column would lose its integrity if he did not write out of his own opinions and
ideas.” He felt that the editor's election by the student body is in a sense a mandate by the students
to run the paper by his own experience and opinion. This method of selection is one of the real strong
points of the Davidson system, he said.

In summing up the year, the editor emeritus concluded, “We haven't tried to push any issue, any terrific campaign. We
have tried to interpret the issues as they come up and comment on the issues as we see them.”

Editor Promises New Miscellany

The second issue of The Miscellany, Davidson's literary magazine, will appear in “two or three weeks,” according to editor Charles
Vick. Vick said that the magazine, which will contain 108 pages and be of the same general layout as the
fall edition, represents “all student work with the exception of two poems by professors.” The contents will include two color
prints, two photographs, several short stories, poetry, an essay, and an interview with Stephen Spender, including the work done by
the Vereen Bell and Miscellany contest winners.

Vick, who was re-elected last month to serve as editor a second year, said that he plans to put out
either two or three issues next year. “There's no way to predict the number,” he said. “I can't be explicit
because I can’t tell who will turn in how much, and when.”

JOHN TODD REMINISCES ‘I Guess I’ve Accomplished A Little’

SCIENCE and ART. The SCIENCE of banking is money management for a lot of people. The ART of banking is
dealing with people... knowing what their needs are and supplying them. We use the latest modern methods to operate our
bank... but we tailor them to the needs of our community and our friends who live here.

Your Checking Or Savings Account
PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST CO.
MEMBER F.D.I.C.
Phone TW 2-2071
Davidson, N. C.

For the pace-setting traditionalists

DAVIDSONIANS! Check Our New Shipments of Permanently Pressed SLACKS by FARAH and HAGGAR in all the good shades 7.00 to
9.00

U.S. KEDS Sneaks 5.98 to 9.98

Come browse, and select yours now! Just say charge it!

HOUSE OF FAMOUS BRANDS
Our 54th Year
Mooresville, N. C.

By ED EMBREE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of the faculty, spoke at the Sigma Nu house last night and had some hopeful words
about the Davidson curriculum as well as the role of a liberal arts college such as Davidson. Johnston stated that
the proposal for pre-Christmas exams has been shelved by the faculty while further and possibly more drastic plans are understudy.
The possibility of a trimester system will certainly be included in the discussions, said Dr. Johnston. Such a system would

Mekas (Continued from Page One) rather than those like, to use his own example, Sound of Music. Mekas was born
in Lithuania and was a poet there for some years before coming to New York City.

UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

He was denied entrance to Israel and Egypt after he decided to leave Lithuania to take up filmmaking. Films were
“the universal language through which I could reach all men,” Mekas decided. Talking about his own work, Mekas said he
was dissatisfied with all his films, including The Brig, except for a personal film diary he has been working on
for a year. He has carried a camera with him all this time and has taken shots of everything that
interests him.

LOCAL FILMING

Some of this, such as manual laborers on the soccer field and pool balls falling into pockets, was filmed here
at Davidson. This diary, called Notebook 1965, will be finished and edited this summer. Mekas said that he had nothing
kind to say about the recent Academy Awards. “Hitchcock's Marnie was the last acceptable film to come out of Hollywood.”

“A film is only one small dent. The medium of cinema is breaking out and taking over and is going
blindly and by itself. Where to? Nobody knows. I’m glad about both, that it is going somewhere and that nobody
knows where.”

FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1966

include drastic curriculum and schedule changes so that the student would be required to take only three courses at a
time.

OTHER SCHOOLS

Dean Johnston is presently reviewing the curriculum and schedules of other colleges and plans to make a detailed study of
various systems this summer and present a plan to the faculty in the fall. On the subject of a trimester
system, Dr. Johnston was asked about the possibility of running summer school as a separate

Lee Will Speak At ODK Tapping

William Lee of the Duke Power Company in Charlotte will be the speaker at the ODK tapping in chapel next
Thursday. Those to be tapped were selected during chapel period on Wednesday and Friday of this week. Selection is on
the basis of outstanding leadership in two of several areas of academic life, such as scholarship, athletics, student government, social
and religious affairs, publications and speech, drama, music, and the other arts.

ROTC Blood Drive Commences Monday

The Red Cross Bloodmobile will be at Johnston Gymnasium Monday and Tuesday for the Spring Blood Drive. The campaign, sponsored
by the ROTC Department and the Interfraternity Council, will be trying to put Davidson first in participating colleges in the
Carolinas. “During the past year we were second by only a few pints,” an ROTC spokesman said. “With not too
much trouble we can get the trophy back again.” The ROTC spokesman also pointed out that for any student donating,
his family’s blood needs will be guaranteed for the next 12 months, providing that their hospital will accept Red Cross
blood, pint for pint.

night. Of Curriculum Changes

quarter, but he did not foresee any such plan until Chambers and the dorms could be air-conditioned. He did mention
that Chambers and possibly one dorm were scheduled for air-conditioning within the next year or two.

IMPROVED PREPARATION

Outside of schedule changes, the curriculum also needs revaluation in light of modern needs and improved high school preparation of
incoming students. Dr. Johnston admitted that, while certain courses may no longer need to be required, at least in their
present form, other requirements may need to be added because of the increased importance of some academic disciplines. He also
stated that because of improved high school curriculums, many freshmen are merely repeating courses when they come to Davidson. The
advanced placement program, begun only three or four years ago, may have to be expanded or certain courses may need
changing. Because of the “explosion of knowledge,” the liberal arts school is necessary to provide academic discipline for the student.
Dean Johnston said, “The liberal arts school is on the defensive and needs to speak more clearly its justification for
being.”

DR. FRONTIS JOHNSTON

YOU CAN EARN UP TO 14 HOURS OF COLLEGE CREDIT WHILE STUDYING THIS SUMMER IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL AT THE
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

A program designed to make the unparalleled resources of Washington, D.C. available to students in other colleges and universities.

The Bloodmobile will be open both days from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m.

AUGUST 26 - AUG

Redhead To Speak At Vespers Sunday

Dr. John A. Redhead will speak on “Variety in Religious Experience” in Vespers Sunday. Dr. Redhead, a Mississippi native, is
a graduate of Southwestern and of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He has held pastorates in Farmville, Va., at the
Second Presbyterian (now Covenant) Church in Charlotte. He is presently pastor at the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro.

Now, you’re probably saying to yourself, “Why blame me? I didn’t do anything.” That’s the problem.

Name
Address
City
State
ZIP

I enclose $4.00 ____. Bill me at $4.50

Subscribe To THE 1966-67 DAVIDSONIAN SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Don’t Miss A Single Issue This Fall!

New Renewal

Mail to: Circulation Mgr. Box 218 Davidson, N. C. 28036
