FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1966

BLINDED BY SNOW

It always snows at Midwinters. And it is a hard thing to feel like writing sports after looking into the
flood of pseudo-cool lines that clash with hungry, warm hearts to make midwinter snow. The sweet wine taste of victory
over NYU and a near upset of St. Joseph's is good—and could evoke praise without a softening of my sordid
cynicism. But for many, the sweet wine has turned bitter, and the deep red of perfection has been watered to
a rot-gut brown by a so-called ticket policy designed to soak this passive student body for all they can be
drenched.

There are conventional sports to write of; there are crusades whose cross demands a carrier, and there are the successful
whose showing hollers for much warranted praise. But I am blinded by too much midwinter snow, and its coldness covers
me too deeply to allow attention for ticket moneymongers or basketball games. Instead, I look through the eyes of a
date at the sport we play best this time of year...

THE MIDWINTERS GAME

It was so thrilling, such a heavenly honor to be asked. I tell you if Barbara’s boyfriend’s fraternity brother hadn’t
needed a date Thursday night, I just might never have met him. Now my whole life’s changed—his too, of course.
I got there with Barbara early Friday afternoon. Well, I don’t mind telling you I was a little scared at
first. When I walked in, I heard this terrible crash and a thump, and some boy ran off the back
porch saying some awful things. That really scared me. I think he was a pledge; they make them do bad
things, you know.

Well, we didn’t meet until right before supper. I'll tell you, when I first saw him I wasn't too impressed.
He said he’d gotten the cut and bruise on his head playing football—he’s out for winter practice; he’s number one
on the team—and he had a huge bandage covering the place where he'd been hurt. But it sure didn’t take
me long to learn that first impressions can really fool you. We ate a perfectly gorgeous meal. I had turkey,
ham, shrimp creole, a double helping of mashed potatoes, peas and carrots, rolls, tons of butter, ice cream (two cups),
and just all kinds of other food. He didn't eat much. Football practice makes you lose your appetite, you know.

Well, I could just go on and on. We saw Ramsey Lewis (he’s real famous, I'd never heard of him
before the weekend) that night. I'll tell you, we could just have listened to him forever and ever. I just
love Ramsey. RL (that’s Ramsey Lewis, in case you didn’t know) is fabulous, really too fabulous for words. But most
fun of all was the party. Of course, I don’t drink and neither does he, still a lot of boys
did—and some of the other girls. We had just a wonderful, exquisite time—for almost an hour. I twisted the first
dance with him and then some boy cut in on us. And do you know I danced with every pledge
the next 45 minutes?

Then we had to go; football practice on Saturday, you know. Nobody else was in the dormitory—but I guess coming
in early is the price you pay for being the number one football player’s best girl. I wouldn't trade all
my life for Saturday of Davidson’s Midwinters. It was a vision come true, just like in the movies. It was
too angelic for words. Of course, I didn’t see him until about suppertime with football practice and all. Everybody just
sleeps through lunch there.

Well, we went outside of Davidson to eat supper, and it was too quaint for words. He called it Hattie’s,
and we ate supper there at 4:30 that afternoon—to beat the crowd, wasn’t he clever to think of that? I
had three cheeseburgers, two packs of potato chips, a bag of popcorn, four boiled eggs, a bologna and cheese sandwich,
two burgers, a hot dog, some other stuff and... one beer! I really did it! I wouldn’t have except he
ordered it first, and that’s all he had for supper. Besides, everybody drinks beer.

I guess I shouldn’t say it, but I got drunk. Right there; thank my lucky stars—and I do—no one was
around but he took me back to the soccer field near the college to make sure no one would see
me. He was so nice. Well, being drunk, I started talking a lot and I told him how I thought
I was a little overweight and that some people felt like I was simple.

“I don’t know what makes you think you're overweight,” he assured me. “But I know, just from being around you
two days, there’s a lot to you!” Well, I could have burst. I was so proud and happy. I lost
control then. I threw my arms around him and started to kiss him square in the mouth. I just had
to thank him in my own little way. Then he belched. I think it was the beer he had. Anyway,
we drove back to the fraternity. He was scared he would be too sick to go out that night, but
all his fraternity brothers and some of their dates helped me convince him he’d feel better at the party. So
he said OK.

That night was celestial, I mean pure seventh heaven. Lloyd Price, who’s been my very favorite, number one singer for
at least eight years, was there. He sang them all, “Stagger Lee,” “Personality,” and my personal favorite—and so appropriate—“I'm Gonna
Get Married.” They were just fabulously wonderful-swell. Everybody loved them.

He got sicker at Lloyd Price. But I told him he’d feel better at the party. And what a party!
We just had more fun than I can say. Everybody was so nice. All the pledges twisted with me again.
All the brothers talked to me; they’d all heard a lot about me. That’s why I know he had so
much fun. He told all of them about me. Well, we both drank some. I probably had too much, because
the next thing I knew we were in the back of some car.

For a while I looked him in the face and said, “You think less of me for being drunk and
all.” He looked at me and smiled, “I couldn't if I tried.”

I was so happy I nearly burst. It’s so right when you’re in love. I never saw him Sunday—football practice—but
I know I'll go down again. Spring Frolics, he told me.

PHIL SQUIER SCANS COURT IN ST. JOE GAME
(Staff Photo by Pur)

Hawks’ Oakes Applies Fabled Pressure Defense In Tuesday Tiff

PUTS TEAM FIRST

Snyder Is More Than

By TOMMY COX
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Dick Snyder scored 22 points in a hotly contested game and nine-to-four office workers comment authoritatively over their 10 o'clock
coffee and doughnuts that the total was eight points below the superhorse’s average. A bad night for Snyder and the
Wildcats, who lost by four. This is the fate of being a superstar, like Dick Snyder, a candidate for All-America.
The people who watched melodrama on the other channel Tuesday night and the other “experts” across the nation know only
the final score. These box-score pagans of Wednesday morning know of the heraldings of rival coaches, the praise of sportswriters,
and the 30-point average. They form opinions as to the magnitude of Dick Snyder's performance around gossiping secretaries and the
typewriter of the copy desk.

Twenty-two points he scored, yet how many assists did he have, how many times did he score over three men,
and how much morale does he give to Lefty Driesell's Wildcats? Snyder drives the foul lane and pulls two defenders
off their men. A quick pass under the bucket gives a teammate an easy lay-up. That makes 24 points, then
26 points, then 28 points, then 30 points. Every game—10 points on assists. Snyder shoots over three men.

'Cats To Invade Citadel Domain

The Davidson Wildcats travel to The Citadel tomorrow night for their last game of the regular season. The ‘Cats defeated
The Citadel in their first meeting of the season, 81-77, at Johnston Gym. However, the Bulldogs have improved in the
last few games, defeating Richmond and Furman in road games. Said Coach Lefty Driesell, “We realize it will be a
tough ball game and would like to end the season with a win. We still have hopes of winning 20
games this season.”

The Southern Conference Tournament starts Thursday with eight teams in the running for the conference crown. The only first-round game
that has been decided is the East Carolina-Richmond game. The other three games in the first round will be decided
this weekend. George Washington is the only team definitely out of the tournament because of the season record. Davidson, William
and Mary, and West Virginia are the three top teams in the tourney. The winner of the Conference title will
play the Yankee Conference Champion.

“This is what we've been pointing for all year and the boys want to win it very badly.”I think we
are fully capable of winning if the boys will produce in those three games,” said Driesell.

Grapplers Bow To Tech, ECC Today the Davidson varsity wrestling team took on the North Carolina State Wolfpack in Johnston
Gym at 12:30. The Wildcats were seeking to get back in the win column after defeats at the hands of
Georgia Tech and East Carolina. At Greenville Monday, the team lost to the Pirates, 23-8. Lowell Bryan pinned his opponent
to run his record further as he remains unbeaten, all of his wins being on pins. Eric Nichols, the team
captain, took a decision to round out the Davidson scoring. The brightest spot of the day came as the Pirates
sent a 6-3, 215-pound heavyweight against Davidson freshman Kerry Keith. The difference in size was so apparent that the crowd
began to laugh. The giant's record previously had been perfect with all pins. Keith proceeded to win the match by
a 10-2 margin, taking the opponent down twice with the same move and, as Coach Dave Fagg said, “...just mopped
the guy up.” Saturday the Wildcats hosted Georgia Tech in a home meet. Tech won, 22-11. The Davidson scoring was
accumulated by Joe Buffington, Eric Nichols, and Lowell Bryan. Bryan registered the only pin.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA

Leaving two teammates in position for the rebound. Every game—five rebounds for his teammates. The ‘Cats are down by seven,
and Snyder catches fire for a bucket, a steal, and another bucket. Every game points for the team by building
the confidence of sophomores.

TRIES TOO HARD These statistics mean victory or defeat in some games, but they count little for the personal glory
of Snyder—the kind of glory that makes a good ball player, All-American. If Snyder doesn’t qualify as one of the
mythical five greatest stars in America, it will be because he tried too hard for his Wildcat team, according to
those who have studied him most closely.

Hawks, PAGE FIVE: "Cats Split With Yankees: Trip NYU, Fall To St. Joe By ARCH McCALLUM Assistant Sports Editor Northern
basketball teams descended upon Charlotte’s Coliseum like the rain last week and though the ‘Cats didn’t leave the two fracases
thoroughly drenched they were certainly well-dampened. The Violets of NYU came hanging on the crest of a three-win, no-loss wave
into the hospitable Southland Saturday, but were beached on the short end of a 75-59 score. Then soared in St.
Joseph’s sporting the number eight spot in the land according to current polls. They were more rapacious than their chicken-feather
bedecked mascot and flapped to a stinging 83-79 last-minute victory.

The NYU game saw huge Tom Youngdale, plodding but determined, return from the mental hibernation that had plagued him since
the first West Virginia contest. The limbering pivotman caught fire and was deadly with his disjointed hooks and turnaround jump
shots and ignited an early second-half burst which saw the ‘Cats outscore the Violets 13-5. Then went on to lead
his mates in scoring with 21 points. Dick Snyder played a selfless game and chipped in 20 points. The Violets
were definitely off. A Star One writes a line about the merits of Dick Snyder and at once it is
repetitious. Snyder is today better than he was at the beginning of the season when Lefty Driesell called him the
“greatest player in the country.” Of course, that feeling was Driesell's, but Snyder has since given others the same impression.

SERIOUS STUDENT Yet, with all the attention Snyder receives from his basketball accomplishments, he remains uncommonly modest, a good, adity
conversationalist, and a serious student. “One rarely sees a combination of physical and personal astuteness blended so well,” concluded a
classmate of Snyder recently.

(Staff Photo by Purvis) SUPERHORSE SNYDER READIES SHOT NYU's Kaplan Looks On

The Ramsey Lewis Trio exclusively on Cadet Records latest album — “Hang On Ramsey” (includes — A Hard Day’s Night
& Hang on Sloopy)

The in Crowd There’s a world of excitement on Cadet, Chicago, Ill. 60616

Led by the action. They took 70 shots; ten more than the Wildcats, but hit only 22 for a measly
31.4 percentage. Chief offender was Mal Graham who threw the ball up 30 times and connected on only ten. Furthermore,
NYU's height disadvantage forced 6-4 Charles Silen, a fiery Puerto Rican, to guard 6-9 Rod Knowles and 6-5 Stan McKenzie
to take 6-10 Youngdale. “This just isn't the same NYU that played North Carolina,” commiserated the NYU radio announcer to
the folks back home, and that was about it.

The story of Tuesday night's conflict with St. Joe was fouls and turnovers. The ‘Cats came out tight, forced into
costly mistakes by the Hawks’ pressure defense they fell behind often but fought back courageously time after time. They shot
a blistering 62.5 percent from the floor, 82.6 percent from the foul line and won the rebounding battle, 35-20. But
there were 22 turnovers and as a result St. Joe shot 18 more times. They needed the extra tries, too,
for they still made one less field goal than the ‘Cats. The rub came at the foul line where the
Hawks had through the season hit only 65.6. This time they missed only three of 28 for an 89.3 percent.
Davidson finally tied the score after trailing most of the first half, but shortly Youngdale, Knowles, and Bobby Lane were
on the bench with three fouls and the Hawks pulled away to a 48-41 halftime lead.

In the second half, the Wildcats caught up on the shooting and rebounding of Knowles and Snyder, and took the
lead at 57-56 with 16:08 left on a Youngdale three-point play. It was a seesaw game from then until the
end when Matt Guokas iced it with two free throws with 14 seconds left. Knowles led the ‘Cats in scoring
though playing only about half the time. Snyder's scoring was hampered by his having to pass the ball inbounds against
the press. Nevertheless, he garnered 22 points and continued to exhibit his All-America form though his performance was marred by
six ball-handling errors.

Tankmen Splashed By ECC The Wildcat swimmers splashed around the Johnston Gym pool with ECC, turning in a creditable performance
despite losing by 66-42 Monday night. The meet was fairly even through the first few events. Tom Irons placed second
in the 200-yard freestyle and Bris Rodgers captured first in the 50-yard freestyle. However, the narrow gap was split wide
open when ECC registered 16 out of the next 18 possible points in the individual medley and diving. From this
midway point, the Pirates continued to widen their margin. In the 200-yard backstroke, Richard Holt lowered the school record to
2:19.35, although this time was good only for second place. After this, a pair of superbly conditioned Pirates swam away
with the 500-yard freestyle, settling the issue if not the final score. In the final events, Davidson came on stronger.
Though he also placed second, Eddie Beach lowered the school mark in the 200-yard breaststroke to 2:35.5. In the last
event, Tom Irons anchored a team composed of Rodgers, Jim Stokes, and John Helm to victory in the 400-yard freestyle
relay. Davidson's swimmers defeated VMI and William and Mary on the road Wednesday and Thursday.

Scott Outruns Freshman Team The Wildkittens showed two halves this week but succumbed in the final half against Laurinburg Institute,
after crushing Clemson, 103-68. Against Clemson, the ‘Kittens did just about everything right and completely overwhelmed the Tigers. Coach Terry
Holland commented, “The boys looked great, Clemson was not that bad a ball club.” Wayne Huckel led the scoring, hitting
for 27 points. Mike Spann added 22 and provided a late lift in the second half when the troops began
to drag a little. Dave Moser played another outstanding floor game and had 16 points and Mike O'Neill contributed 15.
One of the highlights of the evening came when Tony Orsbon sank a jumper for points 100 and 101. In
the three games this season in which the ‘Kittens have broken 100, Orsbon has hit for the 100th point in
each.

The big difference in the Laurinburg clash was Charlie Scott, who was an immediate hit with the fans with his
uncanny passing, ball-hawking, and shooting. In all, he garnered 37 points along with numerous assists and steals. On Scott, Coach
Holland added a succinct “He looked great.” Scott's 25-point stanza triggered a 59-point second half that brought the Golden Tigers
back from a 54-39 halftime deficit. Mike O'Neill led the Wildkittens with 27 points, while Huckel and Spann had 19
each. The defeat left the ‘Kittens with an 11-4 record. The season finale matches the Wildkittens against a rough Citadel
team tomorrow night at The Citadel. Holland calls them a “strong team, whom we beat here by only 8-10 points
in a game that was close until the end. They will be tough to beat at The Citadel.”

Send for free catalog.
