HARRINGTON SEES SIGNS OF ‘ATHLETICITIS’ (See Page Two) VOL. LV

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1966

KENDRICK, FOSTER PRESENT PLATFORMS (See Page Six)

NUMBER NINETEEN

Faculty Adopts All Proposals

Davidsonians Give Aid To Underprivileged

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson professors and students are providing a sort of “extension program” for underprivileged and under-educated children in the immediate area.
Project Opportunity, as the program is called, is designed to give select groups of underprivileged children cultural and educational opportunities
which they would not otherwise have. It is supported by organizations such as the Ford and Danforth foundations.

According to Norman Johnson, history instructor, who heads Davidson's committee on Project Opportunity, the program is still in the experimental
stage. In this area recipients of the aid are about 150 students at Irwin Avenue Junior High School in Charlotte,
an all-Negro school.

“Davidson undertook to do anything they could to help. We really haven't done much yet. We're trying to resist the
temptation to do too much at once,” Johnson explained.

Johnson gave H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, credit for really getting Davidson embarked on their part
of the program. “He really sold the administration on it,” said Johnson. “He needled them and pushed them until they
agreed.” As a result, a committee was set up to direct and coordinate Davidson's efforts.

Johnson went on to outline the project's aims and methods and how Davidson is helping. A group of students who
seem capable of faster progress is given special instruction, both academically and otherwise. The idea is to follow them through
their academic careers all the way into college. “They try to keep them together in block classes,” he said. “They
try to see if instruction can be pitched to a little higher level.”

A full-time counselor, Chris Sanford, is employed to direct the program. “His main job is just doing very simple things
they’d never do otherwise,” Johnson explained.

Johnson envisions much expanded participation, though. “This summer we hope we'll be able to do more for them. There will
be fairly short courses of instruction, mostly in basic areas, but with some drama, art and so on.

“One of the things Sanford does,” he continued, “is to have book discussion groups. I'm really amazed by the stuff
they read — like Candide, which we just finished in Humanities. A few Davidson students are going to start working
in these. We're trying to get the students involved.”

One of the students who is now participating is Randy McKnight, an English major who is also in the regular
student teaching program. He explained just what the Davidson students will be doing: “We're working with seventh graders. We meet
with them every two weeks and discuss some book pretty informally with them for an hour or an hour and
a half. We more or less try to give direction to them.”

McKnight mentioned several purposes for this particular program. “One is just to encourage these children to read. Another is to
give direction to their reading. We're interested in eventually seeing that these students go on to college.

“It’s really amazing the insight some of them have,” McKnight remarked. “Last week they read The Pearl, and they've read
Animal Farm. In selecting these novels they consider length, because the attention span of a seventh grader isn’t too long,
and select ones that have something to them.”

Grinning from ear to ear, an unusually confident Lefty Driesell reads a victory poem to a predominantly freshman crowd who
turned up for an impromptu pep rally held Wednesday afternoon to see the basketball team off as they left for
the Southern Conference Tournament in Charlotte. For pictures and story, see page five. (Photo by McGuire.)

LEFTY TURNS POET

Fraternities To Launch Food Purchasing Co-Op

By GREY PASH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The newly organized fraternity food purchasing co-op will go into operation at Davidson around March 1. The Davidson College Interfraternity
Co-operative Purchasing Association will take over the job of buying food for the 12 Patterson Court fraternities on a three-month
experimental basis, according to Irvine Welling, chairman of the Interfraternity Treasurers Council.

Welling stated that the co-operative “will launch a new venture in food purchasing which has received wide acclaim — from
both fraternities and vendors alike — at other fine institutions around the state and nation, such as N. C. State,
University of Florida, Ohio State and Auburn.”

The idea of a co-op at Davidson was begun early last fall by Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer. Covington, along
with the newly-formed Interfraternity Treasurers Council, the fraternity housemothers and the IFC, did research and laid the foundation work for
the co-op during the first semester. Surveys were made of current food costs, the mechanics of a co-op operation and
of Davidson's particular situation. Also, a trip was made to N.C. State to meet officials and housemothers and study their
program.

Covington described the nature of a co-op in the following manner: “The concept of a co-operative purchasing association for fraternities
has gained rather widespread acclaim among fraternity systems in recent years.

“The co-op principle utilizes the combined purchasing power of all fraternities and, by channelling all purchases through a central office,
affects volume purchases of a single item, thus reducing the unit cost.

“The co-op will be incorporated and ‘owned’ by the fraternities themselves with continuity established through representation (on a board of
directors) from the Business Office, Dean of Students Office, Alumni and fraternity housemothers.

“Any net profit realized at the end of the fiscal year reverts pro rata volume purchase to the members,” added
Covington.

A secretary will be hired by the co-op to handle orders, food purchasing and billing.

Several reasons have been given for formation of a co-op, especially at this time. Some of these include: increasing food
costs, acute labor shortage in fraternity kitchens, the possibility of continuing delayed rush, savings inherent in volume purchasing, and the
possibility that the ‘co-op philosophy’ might serve as a springboard for better interfraternity-college relationships.

Basically the co-op will operate as follows: All of the fraternities will order their foodstuffs through the co-op. Vendors will
supply this volume of food to the co-op at a discount. Announcements of bids were sent out to 53 vendors
on February 17, and the vendor offering the largest discount will be awarded the contract for that category of food.
The co-op secretary will then bill the fraternity for its gross purchases.

Council Favors Merging Chapel, Vespers Cuts

By RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council discussed the Vespers situation and finally approved the combining of chapel and Vespers cuts, at its meeting
Monday night.

Jim Timmons reported the results of a recent meeting of the Religious Life Committee in which Will Terry proposed the
abolition of Sunday night Vespers, to be replaced by a religious service every other Thursday night.

Of Social Life Evaluation Group

Only Minor Alterations Are Effected In Report

The faculty adopted Tuesday essentially the recommendations of the Social Life Evaluation Committee, including 100 percent affiliation second semester rush
and freshmen eating in the College Union Cafeteria for their entire freshman year.

Minor changes were made in the working of the proposals dealing with eating in the College Union, contact between freshmen
and upperclassmen and plans for implementing affiliation opportunity.

CLARIFICATION

All changes involved only slight rewording to clarify the intentions of the committee and the faculty. The recommendation on the
Union cafeteria previously called for a student-faculty committee to ensure superior food. The altered form recommends that a student-faculty committee
work with the administration to ensure a high-quality level of food.

The proposal dealing with freshman upperclassman contact recommended that contact during the first semester be unrestricted Monday throughFriday, with a
number of exceptions dealing with contact in dormitories and fraternity houses after 7:30 p.m. The faculty’s altered rule makes freshman-upperclassman
contact unrestricted by the Interfraternity Council Monday through Friday. In its original form, the proposal dealing with affiliation required the
IFC to submit to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life by March 1, 1967, a workable plan
by March 1, 1967, an acceptable plan, according to guidelines made clear in advance by said committee, whereby every freshman
so desiring be given opportunity for affiliation with a fraternity. Dr. W. G. Workman, chairman of the Social Life Evaluation
Committee, emphasized that this rule allows a range of degrees of classes of association between the freshman and the fraternity.

“CREATIVE WORK”

“The plan which is finally adopted may call only for opportunity for social affiliation or it may call for opportunity
to be pledges,” said Workman. “There is opportunity here for creative work by the IFC and the Committee.”

“My feeling is that the faculty is trying to be as flexible as possible regarding the problem,” said Dr. Louise
Nelson. “It is giving the fraternities the opportunity to show how they can.”

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Along with the traditional purchases plus a three percent surcharge to cover co-op operation. Projections for the academic year 1966-67
include a gross savings (before surcharge) of $13,920, assuming conservatively a 10 percent discount to the co-op by the vendors.
This would amount to a net savings of $9,744 or an average net savings per chapter of $812.

In addition, enough chapel cuts would be allowed so that those who wished to abstain from compulsory worship services might
do so. This report met with general disapproval from Council members.

“It seems to me a little artificial to have a religious service in the middle of the day in the
auditorium. The atmosphere for such service is much better on a Sunday in church,” said Dave Powell. Billy Clark felt
that, “the redemption of Vespers is that there are good speakers once in a while, and I doubt that this
would be possible on a Thursday.”

When Bob Bryan raised the possibility of pledging out of town church attendance, Timmons replied that this had been suggested
at the meeting and although the Y had not been approved. There was some question on the part of the
committee members as to the strength of the student body honor being stretched to cover something they didn't really believe
in.

Most Council members agreed that Vespers is “a pain,” but that if the number were reduced and good speakers insured,
many complaints would disappear. Bill Council then called for a suggestion in place of the disfavored Terry proposal. Johnny Gresham
proposed that chapel cuts and Vespers cuts be combined and that the number of Vespers be reduced.

Combining the cuts would allow a person to cut all the required worship services, though he would have to attend
more chapels if he did so. The reduced number of Vespers would hopefully ensure better speakers. The motion carried, 11-3.

Council informed the members that the Honor Court was pressing for the establishment of a Student Body Regulations Court which
would have jurisdiction over the trying of cases concerned with violations of the Student Body regulations, leaving the Honor Court
with the responsibility for Honor Code violations only. Council suggested appointing instead of electing juniors and seniors to such a
court.

“There are enough elected positions on the campus already without adding any more,” stated Bryan. “Why don't we make up
a court composed of Student Council members, adding some more weight to our position and making our election more than
a popularity contest?” Council members concurred.

Bryan next suggested the abolition of Saturday classes with the point that it was inconsistent of the college to sponsor
a dance until all hours of the night and then expect you to make it to class the next morning.
Action was tabled until the following week. Bryan added that he would “investigate the possibilities of such a move” before
the next meeting. Absent from the meeting was Dave Meschan.

The aftermath of Midwinters was spiced by the grumblings of irate students this week. Most of the gripes were directed
toward the entertainment provided by the Social Council—the Ramsey Lewis Trio, comedian Dick Davy, and rock ‘n roll star Lloyd
Price—which, in student opinion, was neither adequate nor very entertaining.

“It was embarrassing for me to bring a girl down here and subject her to the type of entertainment that
was provided,” said freshman Cader Howard.

“HURTING”

“For something as big as Midwinters, it was hurting,” said Jim Marrow. “I would think that with $30,000 the Social
Council could do a lot better,” Bob Peel added.

In general, the students, with a few exceptions, found the Ramsey Lewis Trio more than acceptable. However, nearly everyone agreed
that Davy was poor, if not terrible. And most passed up Price's performance in favor of fraternity parties.

“I thought Ramsey Lewis was the best concert I've ever heard,” said sophomore Vance Hughes. “He was fantastic!”

“IT GOT OLD”

Most students assented, but some said that jazz “generally isn’t good for a concert” and Dick Little noted that it
“got sorta old.”

“Pathetic,” “terrible,” and “left much to be desired” were among the tags applied to Davy. “In fact, he was better
up the road Friday afternoon,” lamented Martin Brackett. Tommy Cox added: “His type of humor isn't appreciated around here.”

Some students, like Rob Powell, found Price “good entertainment,” but many thought him “stale” or at least “not very contemporary”;
consequently, the rock ‘n roll dance was attended by only about 200 couples.

“NOTHING OUTSTANDING”

“Nothing was outstanding,” said Chris Hawk. “The Social Council has almost twice as much money this year, but the entertainment
is not as good. I understand they even had some money left over first semester. We ought to have something
real big—not a bunch of little stuff.”

Social Council Chairman Dan Campbell admitted that the weekend was “under par, but I don't think the Council owes an
apology as such. We're not going to pot; it was a combination of bad luck and bad leads.”

“I don’t think that most students have any idea of how expensive big attractions are,” he said. “Some entertainers, such
as the Supremes, the Righteous Brothers, and Bob Dylan, demand $5,000 or more, for just one appearance.”

Campbell said that Price was “not our first choice. We were victims of some bad luck in booking, and Price
was simply the best we had left to choose from.”

DICK DAVY

As for Davy, Campbell noted that the Social Council “got the same type of recommendation as we got on Fred
Smoot several years ago.” According to a noted artist's agent, Davy is destined to be a big star.

Faculty Hands Out Hazing Penalties

Two fraternities were handed stiff penalties this week by the Faculty Executive Committee for hazing infractions which occurred earlier this
month. Phi Delta Theta and Kappa Sigma fraternities were placed on probation by the college until June 1969. If any
hazing occurs within either chapter, that fraternity will lose its rushing privileges for a period to be decided by the
faculty.

In addition, eight members of Phi Delta Theta and one member of Kappa Sigma have been deprived of house privileges
through March 27—the beginning of spring holidays. The nine students will be unable to use their fraternity houses for eating,
studying, recreation, or any social activities until that time, according to the committee’s decision.

“We feel that this may not be the fraternities’ fault entirely, although they do have a responsibility in this area,”
remarked a member of the committee to THE DAVIDSONIAN today. “But this should be a warning to all fraternities,” he
continued, “so that this type of thing won't happen again.”
