PAGE SIX

FORD GRANT $1 Million Mark Passed

The Davidson College Ford Challenge Program has now received over one million dollars in advance gifts, according to President D.
Grier Martin. As of Dec. 24, $1,001,300 in gifts had been tabulated in the $7.7 million drive. General solicitation is
scheduled to begin in January. The campaign still needs to solicit approximately $4.5 million more by June 1968, in order
to qualify for the $2.2 million grant. However, national co-chairmen Walter L. Lingle Jr. of Cincinnati, Ohio, and William A.
White Jr. of Charlotte are confident that the campaign is on schedule. In a joint statement, the co-chairmen emphasized the
necessity of passing the $2 million mark by June 30 of this year in order to qualify for the first
$800,000 payment of the Ford grant.

“This million dollar announcement is encouraging,” White stated, “since it indicates the program is on schedule and that it has
the momentum it needs.” “We knew we had to raise a minimum of approximately a million dollars every six months
for the three-year period, and the job can be done,” White continued.

The challenge drive will progress in the new year with a region-by-region canvass of sixty cities where sizable groups of
Davidson alumni, parents, and friends live. The largest gift to date is a $750,000 grant for Davidson's general educational endowment
from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation. President Martin stated that “this magnificent gift is a demonstration of the concern of
the Z. Smith Reynolds trustees for those basic areas of Davidson's program — faculty salaries, instruction, and the general educational
budget — where financial strength is most seriously and urgently needed.” Reynolds Foundation grants to Davidson since 1960 have amounted
to $1.7 million and included the R. J. Reynolds Distinguished Lectures Fund as well as endowment grants for faculty salaries.
The results to date indicate the program is on schedule and that it has the momentum it needs.

MacCormac Plans Vespers Sermon

Professor Earl MacCormac will speak in Vespers Sunday on “Man’s Search for God.” Dr. MacCormac holds his BA, MA, BD,
and PhD from Yale University and is associate professor of philosophy. Dr. MacCormac’s sermon centers on the question, “Is it
possible to sense the presence of God in the everyday empirical world?” He reports that the sermon will also include
some of his views on the ‘God is dead’ controversy and Man's relation to the world, himself, and others. Dr.
MacCormac will also comment on Harvey Cox's The Secular City and sex and love as an identity crisis.

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night: Blackwell, Epes, Long, Roberts, Brinkley, Gill,
McKelway, Sackett, Cornwell, Jackson, Orr, Schenck, Crawley, Kaylor, Puckett, Williams, G., Patterson, W. B.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966

Entries Being Accepted For Writing Competition

Applications are now being accepted for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing for 1966, it was announced this
week. Competition for the award, which carries a $75 cash prize, is open to all students at Davidson and may
fall in any recognized category of creative writing, such as short story, essay, drama, or poetry. The winner of the
award, along with recognition to other ranking contestants, will be announced at an assembly in the spring in conjunction with
the expanded budget.

BOOKS REARRANGED

The top floor of the Babcock Wing in Grey Library is now complete with shelves and carrels. Earlier this year,
many Davidson students took part in a program known as Operation Match designed to find, by computer, compatible couples among
the students of area colleges. Some of these applicants were freshmen, suddenly finding themselves at a loss for female companionship,
after having been treated well by “Cupid the Computer” during the early mixers. Others were upperclassmen, tired of dating the
same old girls from Queens. Whatever the reason, all the applicants had to complete a five-page form, with questions ranging
from the color of the applicant’s eyes to whether or not they considered themselves ‘sexually experienced’. Then, dreaming of the
“beautiful, warm, sensitive girl” promised by the forms (along with the advertisements, they mailed their three dollars) and sat back
to wait ... and wait... and wait... and wait. Finally, months late, when the long-awaited replies arrived, these forms contained
a list of supposedly compatible girls, along with a warning that the results were “not guaranteed,” and to take “normal
precautions” before dating one of the listed matches. These lists varied from a minimum of five to 10 and more
for the suave, debonair types. Many applicants soon arrived at the conclusion that almost any girl worth dating could find
a date without the aid of an IBM. Some girls took the initiative and wrote to the boys whose addresses
they received. Many are still waiting for a reply, especially those who enclosed pictures. One freshman complained that he was
unable to read a letter he received, and that the few words he could make out were misspelled. Another said
that a girl who sent her picture looked like a “refugee from a zoo.” Surely, some intelligent, likeable, good-looking girls
participated in Operation Match, one applicant conjectured, but unfortunately, none of them have turned up yet. As always in a
project of this size, mistakes were made. Names were misspelled, and addresses and phone numbers were left out. There were
even cases of boys getting the names of other boys. (At least, the boys claimed it was a mistake. Only
the computer knows for sure.) It is still too early for any definite conclusions about Operation Match. It has already
resulted in many phone calls, some letters, and a few dates. How successful it will be remains to be seen,
but the outlook is questionable.

Christian Commitment Questioned By Rector

The form of Davidson’s commitment to the Church must be drastically altered to make both the educational and Christian experience
more meaningful. William Morris, rector at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, told an unusually attentive student body yesterday. “I'm glad Davidson
has a Christian commitment,” Morris explained, “but the form it takes must change.” The priest explained that while the commitment
should remain, the form must constantly undergo modification and revision. He likened the present form to a sacred cow: “A
sacred cow is immune; it can trample through your garden and defecate on your lawn and you can't say anything
about it.” “The same situation exists here at Davidson: Davidson has its present form because it has its present form.”
The church is not infallible, the priest said, and to assert that it is alienates more people than it commends
to it. “I’m a Christian and this bothers me,” he said. Faith includes the freedom not to believe. Morris asserted.
God can’t be predicted, and one can’t say that pagans don’t know God. Students did not escape blame for the
present situation. Morris believes that in acquiescing, students are saying they are willing to accept a less-than-satisfactory undergraduate education. “The
student body will gripe and bitch because it's expected of them, but they're not actually doing anything about it,” he
said. Morris has taught at Davidson, Kenyon College, and the University of Virginia. He began his career as a reporter
with The News and Courier in 1948-49 and served as assistant to the director of the University of Florida Press
and as federal court reporter on the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot.

The 000's, 100’s, 200’s, and 300’s (to 1830) are now on the second floor of the main building, beginning at
the north end. The 300’s (1830 on) are on the second floor of the Babcock Wing, north side. The 400's,
500's, 600’s, and 700’s are on the second floor of the Babcock Wing, south side. The 800’s are on the
second mezzanine (top floor) of the main building, beginning at the north end. The 900's are on the second mezzanine
(top floor) of the Babcock Wing. The newly opened floor of the Babcock Wing will comfortably accommodate 50,000 volumes.Dr. Chalmers
G. Davidson, director of the library, commented, "Presently we are adding approximately 10,000 new books and periodicals each year. With
this new floor open, the present building will be useful for about five more years." Davidson pointed out that this
building could be used for up to seven more years if every inch of shelf space were used, but he
termed this undesirable. He noted that for the past two years the library budget for new books has been about
$78,000 per year as compared to $38,000 per year previously.

Regarding the prospects for a new library, Davidson pointed out his office window to the sloping hill on the other
side of Concord Street. He envisioned a handsome rotunda front (a la University of Virginia) to a windowless building, completely
air-conditioned and artificially lighted. "But this, of course, is only my personal preference," he concluded.

Conservative To Speak On Conflict Philosophy

Anthony Harrigan, recognized military affairs expert and associate editor of The News and Courier, Charleston, S.C., will speak in chapel
on Tuesday on “Conflict Philosophy.” Harrigan’s visit is being sponsored by The Conservative Club. He will speak at their meeting
Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Green Room of the Union. A coffee will follow his Tuesday lecture.

In addition to his association with The News and Courier, Harrigan serves as U.S. correspondent to the Canadian Military Journal
and is a military consultant for the American Security Council. He is a frequent lecturer to such military groups as
the National War College, Headquarters, and U.S. Strike Command. Harrigan attended Bard College. He received the Freedoms Foundation medal for
editorial writing in 1960 "for... work in helping to bring about a better understanding and greater appreciation of the American
way of life."

Abernethy Falls Ill, Goes To Colorado

Dr. George L. Abernethy, professor of philosophy, is presently in Colorado Springs, Colo., for treatment. He will remain there until
the end of this month, when he is expected to return to begin classes again for the second semester. Dr.
Abernethy taped lectures for one of his classes, while Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, assistant professor of philosophy, has taken over
another. His Humanities 11 section is being divided among the rest of the department. Mrs. Abernethy, who is remaining in
Davidson, said her husband is feeling well. "He is getting along fine," she told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week.

Morris’ idea of a college's purpose is education, and he believes the best education can be best prescribed by the
entire academic community rather than by the Church alone. "A Christian liberal arts college should be no different from any
other liberal arts college," he said. To bring this about, Morris wants the Church to surrender some of its favored
place on campus and become a more basic part of college life. "The church should not be indiscussable: it should
come down from its pedestal and enter into the real give-and-take." The reason for a reticence in liberating the church,
he thinks, is a lack of confidence in God and the Church, a fear that Christianity would die. "Sure, 80
per cent of you would stop going to church, but it would be pleasant for everyone to stop being hypocrites,"
he quipped in his typically dry delivery. The nature of God is such, he ventured, that one either meets him
everywhere or nowhere, but never in just the religious exercises. God can't be confined to religious purposes, "We meet him
everywhere, and if the Church doesn’t believe this, maybe it should get out," he said. His talk ended with a
challenge, "If you, the students, don't take some initiative, you forfeit your right to complain. The Trustees would not now
bless you, but maybe later..."

1966-67 ACADEMIC CALENDAR

Sept. 8-13 Monday. 8:20 a.m. Orientation.
Sept. 12-13 Thursday through Monday. Re-examinations.
Sept. 12 Monday. First faculty meeting.
Sept. 12 Registration of sophomores. 2 p.m.
Sept. 13 Tuesday. Registration of juniors 9 a.m. Seniors 2 p.m.
Sept. 14 Wednesday. Classes begin.
Oct. 28 Friday. Meeting of Board of Trustees.
Oct. 29 Saturday. Homecoming. A holiday.
Nov. 5 Saturday. Freshman Parents Day.
Nov. 12 Saturday. Grade report all students.
Nov. 23 Wednesday. 4:30 p.m. Thanksgiving recess begins.
Nov. 28 Monday. Thanksgiving recess ends.
Dec. 17 Saturday. 12:10 p.m. Christmas recess begins.
Jan. 3 Tuesday. Christmas recess ends.
Jan. 4 Wednesday. Pre-examination study day.
Jan. 5 Thursday. Mid-year examinations begin.
Jan. 17 Tuesday. Mid-year examinations end.
Jan. 27, 28, 29 Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Mid-term recess.
Jan. 30 Monday. 8:20 a.m. Second semester begins.
March 18 Saturday. Grade report all students.
March 25 Saturday. 12:10 p.m. Spring recess begins.
April 3 Monday. 8:20 a.m. Spring recess ends.
May 23 Tuesday. Pre-examination study day.
May 24 Wednesday. Second semester examinations begin.
June 1 Thursday. Second semester examinations end.
June 3, 4 Saturday, Sunday. Commencement.
June 9, 10 Friday, Saturday. Re-examinations.

Clark, Williams Win Major Scholarships

Two Davidson students, Billy Clark and George Williams, recently won two of the most highly-sought-after scholarship awards for graduate study
that are given in the United States. Clark became Davidson’s 15th Rhodes Scholar, and Williams became its second Marshall Scholar.
This is the first year that Davidson has had both a Rhodes and a Marshall scholar. Davidson ranks eighth among
liberal arts colleges in America in the number of its graduates who have received Rhodes Scholarships. Davidson's last Rhodes Scholar
was Danny Carrell in 1963. In the past Secretary of State Dean Rusk (class of '31) and James McDowell Richards
(class of '22), current president of the Board of Trustees, were Rhodes Scholars.

Thirty-two young men from the U.S., representing 28 states and 22 colleges and universities, have been selected for Rhodes Scholarships
to attend Oxford University in England beginning next fall. The scholars-elect look forward to two (in special cases, three) years
of study at Oxford in any field and a stipend of about $2,500. All candidates must be male, unmarried citizens
of the U.S., with at least five years domicile, and can range from 18 to 24 years of age. They
must be at least juniors in college.

Each year 24 Marshall Scholarships are granted to outstanding American university students, enabling them to study at any British university
for two (or sometimes three) years. Unlike the Rhodes Scholarships, students may be of either sex and may be married.
Selections and eliminations are made by committees interviewing the students in various parts of the country. The first stage of
selection always takes place at the college or university a candidate represents. According to the Rhodes Foundation itself, "Quality of
both character and intellect is the most important requirement for a Rhodes Scholarship."

Vereen Bell Award Entries Due

Entries for the annual Vereen Bell Memorial Award for creative writing are now being accepted. The award is given annually
in memory of Vereen Bell, a Davidson graduate. Bell, author of a number of short stories, was best known as
the writer of the novel Swamp Water, later made into a movie. The rules state that a student may submit
entries in as many different categories as he wishes but he may submit one entry only in each category with
the exception of poetry. In poetry, he may enter one poem, or a sequence of poems; if he submits more
than one poem he must designate them as one unit and so enter them. The name of the writer must
be enclosed in an envelope bearing the title of the entry and attached to it. No name should appear on
the manuscript itself, the rules state. The deadline for entries is March 18. Entries may be given to any member
of the English Department. Last year’s winner was sophomore Paul Monk.
