Page 4. THE DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 16, 1966

YMCA Freshman Camp Rated As Successful

More than 180 freshmen arrived on campus two days before the actual beginning of orientation to attend the YMCA Freshman Camp, hailed as a “complete success” by director Don Carroll. Dr. Harry Smith, a Presbyterian minister for students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, was the featured speaker both Tuesday and Wednesday nights, September 6 and 7. He spoke on the problem of “Apathy and Indifference” among college students, and his talk was supplemented by a film concerning the same problem. The second night he explained what the Christian faith has to say about this problem in a talk entitled “Involvement and Commitment on Campus.”

Dr. Anthony Abbott, professor of English, urged freshmen to have the intellectual curiosity to disagree and argue sometimes, instead of accepting things blindly, and to have the courage to exercise this intellectual curiosity. He pointed out the three prototypes among the Davidson student body—the “cool guy,” the “fly,” and the “way-out” radicals—and showed that each of these groups lacked something. Dr. William Hight, director of student counseling, spoke on the “Practical Side of Getting an Education.”

The camp staff included Will H. Terry, chaplain; Don Carroll, camp director; Bobby Lane, program chairman; Bobby Vagt, business manager; Hawk, publicity chairman. Student leaders filled the remaining positions on the staff. The location at Camp Thunderbird, south of Charlotte in South Carolina, was easily able to accommodate the largest number of freshmen to attend in the history of the camp. “The facilities were just ideal,” said Carroll. Hawk summed up the general opinion by saying, “It was a leisurely introduction to Davidson life, with everything well-planned and well-timed. This was probably the most successful camp yet.”

GOP Senate Hopeful To Discuss Inflation

John S. Shallcross, Republican candidate for U.S. Senator from North Carolina, will speak Thursday in Love Auditorium. Shallcross, who will oppose Sen. Everett B. Jordan in the Nov. 8 general election, has been a critic of centralization in government and “the burden of Federal taxation which leaves fewer tax dollars for the communities of the nation.” An engineer by profession, Shallcross is treasurer of the Johnston County and Second Congressional District Republicans.

The Rev. Russell T. Montfort, minister of the Burkhead Methodist Church in Winston-Salem, will appear as the year's first chapel speaker Monday. Montfort has served as minister of the Davidson Methodist Church where he was instrumental in building the present sanctuary and church school building. While he lived in Davidson, Montfort frequently spoke at chapel and vespers.

Journalist, author, and jazz enthusiast, Leopold Tyrmand will speak at assembly on Tuesday. After World War II, Tyrmand did freelance work for a number of Polish newspapers and later worked on the staff of a Catholic weekly. As an author, Tyrmand has written several novels and a collection of short stories. His latest novel is entitled High Society and Sentimental Life.

GERMAN PRESENTS BOOKS

President D. Grier Martin accepts one of a collection of books presented to Davidson by the West German government. Making the presentation is Dr. Heinrich Pohris, the German consul in Atlanta, Ga. The German government has become interested in Davidson's German year-abroad program at the University of Marburg; the books symbolize the mutual interest between Davidson and Germany. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Fees (Continued from Page 1)

Two alternatives:
1. Charging on a per piece basis and providing a coin-operated washerette at an estimated cost to each student of $150 per year.
2. Continuing the old method and increasing the laundry fee.

“Actually,” Currie said, “the college is stuck in the laundry business because there is no one else around here to offer the service to our students. We're not trying to make a profit with the laundry. We just want to provide the service and break even—and this new fee increase was necessary for us to break even.”

Currie anticipates further increases in the fee. “The labor situation is not as critical now as it will probably be in a couple of years. This fact, along with the possibility of the extension of federal minimum wage laws to the laundry business (now only covered by state law), makes further increases a real likelihood. In the meantime,” he concluded, “we'll be trying to retain all our essential services and personnel while keeping the cost to students as low as possible.”

Players (Continued from Page 1)

Playing basketball enough to warrant the time required to play. There are other things that I now consider more important that I'd rather spend my time on.” Both squelched possible reconsideration. “No, definitely not,” said Clifton. Hatcher, however, said only, “I'm not going to play basketball.” He said “nothing special” prompted his decision and admitted that he could change his mind “any time, especially with cold weather.”

Hold that crease? You bet it will. If the fabric is one of the great, new permanent-press blends of 2-ply polyester and cotton masterminded by Galey & Lord. For the new dimension in collegiate slacks, look to GALEY & LORD, 1407 BROADWAY, N.Y. 10016 "A DIVISION OF BURLINGTON INDUSTRIES"

CREWS WORK

Crews were working overtimeThis week, completing the $430,000 renovation of Chambers Auditorium. Along with new lights, seats, and carpeting, the auditorium gets a new name—J. Spencer Love Auditorium. Other college projects completed this summer were the air-conditioning of Little dorm and the construction of three faculty residences. (Staff Photo by Olson)

A collection of early-book art, a traveling exhibition on loan from the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh, will be displayed at the Cunningham Fine Arts Center starting Monday. The collection contains 39 book leaves, all from the 15th and 16th centuries.

FOR SALE
1965 Valiant Signet Sport Coupe. Still in warranty—like new. Big motor, 4 in the floor... Stereo radio. Oversize tires. Going overseas. Call 892-8817 (Bus.) or 892-8694 (residence). Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

Art Exhibit To Open This Monday

HIGH INCOME JOBS ON CAMPUS
Get a high-paying job in sales, distribution, or market research right on your own campus. Become a campus representative for over forty magazines, American Airlines, Operation Match, etc., and earn big part-time money doing interesting work. Apply right away! Collegiate Marketing, Dept. H, 27 E. 22 St., New York, N.Y. 10010.

Monday—Friday The Hub

Hall Counselors Get $70 Raise In Salary
Requests by the 1966-67 hall counselors for increased remuneration have resulted in a $220-per-semester salary, the equivalent of full room rent. Only a request for $10 per semester above room rent to be paid to second-year counselors was denied.

In a petition submitted to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts on May 4, the 1966-67 hall counselors outlined five specific requests. In response to the first request, the hall counselors will meet with the Dean of Students and Supervisor of Dormitories Mrs. Peter Nicholls on the second Wednesday of every month. The hall counselors’ second request was for the establishment of a liaison committee between the hall counselors and the offices of the Supervisor of Dormitories and of the Dean of Students. A five-man Hall Counselor Planning Committee has been created for this task. Members are Gary DeVane, chairman, Barry St. Clair, Cecil Clifton, Marvin Sparrow, and Tom Trons. It has also been agreed that second-year hall counselors should be on a committee to choose new hall counselors and that a Hall Counselors’ Freshman Report concerning each freshman’s adjustment be submitted twice during the year. The first report is to be completed by the November meeting of the counselors.

Only the final request concerning financial remuneration was not completely acceptable with the administration. According to Mrs. Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, whose office is now in charge of the Hall Counselor Program, “We need to get it (the hall counselor program) on a more business-like basis. We are saying that this job is worth a certain amount of money.” In the past, hall counselors have been paid according to a certain proportion of their room rent. Before 1965-66 the proportion was one-half, but in answer to a written request of the hall counselors in September 1965, the pay was increased to $150 per year.

Are You Dateless Tonight? Pine No Longer!
Our CUPID COMPUTER will scan, check, match, select, and introduce you to your MOST COMPATIBLE single dates. You will receive their names and phone numbers; they will receive yours. Now, the science is Chemistry—and Romance is yours! Fill out and mail the coupon below, and you will receive our FREE compatibility questionnaire. Complete and return it with a minimum computer fee.

To: MATCH-MATE!
P. O. Box 7024 Stewart Station
Richmond, Va. 23221

Name: _______________________

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Welcome Back to School DAVIDSONIANS
Shop Us For Your CAMPUS CLOTHES
Hunter Haig, London Fog, Sero, Botany 500, Gold Cup, Van Heusen, Bostonians, Corbin, Haggar, Cox-Moore, Lord Jeff
Use Your Charge Account
John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE (Only 6 miles north)

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1818 W. Morehead
PIZZA

WELCOME
Welcome back to all the students... especially the freshmen!

YOU CAN'T BEAT OUR QUICK SHIRT SERVICE
JACKSON CLEANERS
N. Main, Davidson
Phone 892-5196

Valuable GIFT for students
An assortment of fine, nationally-advertised products—courtesy of famous manufacturers and your college store. You will receive such products as these: Brylcreem, Absorbine Jr., Williams Lectric Shave, Old Spice Lime, Alka-Seltzer, Maclean’s Toothpaste, Aqua Velva Lather, Personna Blades, No-Doz, Valuable Coupons. Only 30c Retail Value $2.50 On Sale Now! Only 1 Pac per student. This valuable array of products comes to you with the compliments of the manufacturers. One CAMPUS PAC is yours—only while the supply lasts. Exclusively at: The Student Store Sold by YMCA