FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1966 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Smith Hails Hungry D As Unqualified Success

By BILLY FARR
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Hungry D night club's first week can best be described as a great success, according to C. Shaw Smith,
Union director. “Good talent, good food, good music, atmosphere and friends made it the success it was,” he said.

Smith stated that over 750 people attended during the five nights it was in operation, and many had to be
turned away for lack of room. He also emphasized, “Of course our greatest thanks go to Fred Smoot, the unifier,
the known quantity in the experiment. The other factors had to be proved.”

In fact, more people attended Friday night’s two shows than The Womenfolk’s concert during Spring Frolics. The club had been
widely advertised; it drew its patronage from students, faculty and townspeople. Dr. Henry Lilly, professor emeritus of English, summed up
the evening by saying, “It sure was fun.”

The night club, featuring comedian Fred Smoot, was underwritten by general Union funds. However, the “take” proved that entertainment of
this type costs much less than any single appearance by an artist on a dance weekend, Smith said.

The Hungry D represents a new concept in on-campus entertainment and has apparently aroused much interest at other colleges. Smith
has been in contact with people from Duke and UNC, among others, who are interested in establishing a campus night
club circuit next year. Officials from schools in Florida, Minnesota, and California have called concerning this new approach to campus
entertainment. One man in New York has offered to buy into the proposed college circuit in North Carolina, Smith said.

The news coverage of the event was excellent, Smith continued. A highly complimentary review appeared in The Charlotte Observer. WSOC-TV
carried a report on the Hungry D on its Tuesday evening news program.

Phi Eta Sigma Initiates 15 Into Membership

Twelve freshmen and three sophomores were initiated into Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman scholastic honorary fraternity, during ceremonies at Phi
Hall Tuesday afternoon. Criterion for membership in the fraternity, a national organization, is a 2.6 average in either the first
semester, or first two semesters.

The freshmen initiated were Charlie Baker, Dick Chandler, Paul Gallis, Robbie Hooker, Berkley Latimer, David Morrow, Mike Payne, Randy Phillips,
Bill Thomson, Bruce Weidner, Bill Williams and Dale Vash. Chuck Byrd, Woody Faulk and Bryce McLaughlin, sophomores, were also initiated.

In a general business session afterwards, the fraternity elected as its new officers Chris Hawk, president; Kirk Reed, vice-president; Bill
Williams, secretary; and Frank Fleming, treasurer. In addition, Reed was chosen to represent the Davidson chapter at the national convention
at Auburn next Oct. 31-Nov. 2.

This plan could change the whole outlook toward entertainment at Davidson. It will provide more people with more chances to
enjoy performances by outstanding new artists. The night club idea provides an excellent opportunity for students to release tensions by
having clean fun and having it fast, Smith stressed.

As yet the Union has not conclusively lined up entertainers for proposed shows next year, though several are being considered.
The Hungry D is looking for new, exciting comedy, music and novelty acts of a quality that will ensure the
continued success of the night club idea at Davidson. “We will welcome any suggestions from students in helping us find
the talent we need,” Smith concluded.

DR. MARGARET MEAD
Reynolds Lecturer To Speak On Wednesday

DR. MEAD

Lecture Series Brings Noted Anthropologist

The final Reynolds Lecturer of the year will be Dr. Margaret Mead, well-known anthropologist, lecturer and author. Dr. Mead will
appear on campus Wednesday and will speak at Hodson Hall that night at 8:15 and on Thursday in the Morrison
Room at 10:15 a.m.

Currently, she is Curator of Ethnology at the American Museum of Natural History in New York and Adjunct Professor of
Anthropology, Columbia University, New York. Born in Philadelphia, Miss Mead received her BA degree at Barnard College and her MA
and PhD at Columbia University. During her career, she has also received 14 honorary degrees.

‘LA TRAVIATA’ Festival To Show Opera

The Davidson Fine Arts Festival, which is using “turn of the century” as its theme this year, continues with the
Monday night showing of a filmed version of La Traviata. La Traviata is a romantic opera by Verdi and is
characterized by its beautiful arias and dramatic storyline.

Adviser to Phi Eta Sigma is Dr. R. B. Jackson, associate professor of mathematics.

Marney To Speak On Sunday Night

Rev. Carlyle Marney, pastor of the Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, will speak in Vespers Sunday. A native of
Tennessee, Marney is a graduate of Carson-Newman College and Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. He has written several books, including Faith
in Conflict, Beggars in Conflict and Structure of Prejudice. Marney’s previous pastorate was at the First Baptist Church in Austin,
Tex. Last year he conducted a Christmas Eve service for a national television network.

The Chaplain's Office has announced that there will be two more Vesper services after Sunday.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

*CommLola” and “Coke” are registered trademarks which identify only the product of The Coca-Cola Company.

Everybody cheers for ice-cold Coca-Cola. Coke has the taste you never get tired of ... always refreshing. That's why things
go better with Coke... after Coke... after Coke. Let’s hear it for the cheerleaders!Mocked Gon COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD
CONCORD, N. C. teristic of the romantic influence of the 19th century. It will be shown in Hodson Hall at
8 p.m. Monday night. No admission will be charged. Thursday night in Hodson Hall at 8 p.m. the feature-length film
Lust for Life will be shown. It is a filmed version of the biography of Vincent Van Gogh. The movie
is based on the book by the same title by Irving Stone who also wrote The Agony and the Ecstasy.
The movie stars Kirk Douglas as Van Gogh and Anthony Quinn as Paul Gauguin, the artist friend of Van Gogh.
Douglas Houchens, the Fine Arts member of the Committee, said of the film, “It is well worth seeing both for
enjoyment of the painting and for the Hollywood approach to the life of a terrific man.” Houchens emphasized the difficulty
in filming paintings and said that since Hollywood was the world's center for technology of this sort, the filming is
excellent even down to the hard-to-capture yellows. In addition to the photography, the movie shows actual spots in southern France
where Van Gogh painted.

Students To Receive Quips’n Cranks May 20

Quips and Cranks, the Davidson yearbook, should be in the hands of students by May 20. According to Editor Arnie
Snider, the staff will get the page proofs from the printer early next week, and the book itself should therefore
be ready for distribution “by May 20, I guess.” As to the contents, “It'll be different,” said Snider. He promised
less copy, more white space, and more pictures. “And the cover won't be black with a gold seal as it
has been for the last two years. It's really a picture annual,” he said. “There will be at least a
hundred more pictures than last year, including 10 color pages.” Over half the photos were taken by Tom Thel. “We
haven't got much copy,” Snider said, “but what we've got says something. I sure hope people will like it.”

SAT. & SUN. 2 BIG COLOR HITS! AUDIE MURPHY “BULLET FOR A BADMAN”

Our Shirts are more than A Sporting Affair

MOORESVILLE Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

STEP OUT FRONT

During the festival, a collection of recently purchased framed reproductions of 19th-century European paintings will be shown. They will remain
on exhibit in the lobby of the Fine Arts Center through May 13. In addition, there is a collection of
original prints by 19th-century masters, such as Renoir, on loan from the deCinque Collection. Of special interest is “L’Artiste en
Italie,” a cliché on glass by Camille Corot. This print was achieved by covering a glass with black paint, scratching
the design on it, and running it over synthesized paper. Another one of special interest is a lithograph by Paul
Ranson.

Dr. Mead has held numerous teaching and lectureship positions at many respected institutions. She has lectured at such places as
Harvard, Vassar, Stanford, Yale, and Birmingham University in England. Her awards are as distinctive as her positions. Among them are
the Citation as the ‘Woman of the Year, 1961, by the New York City Branch of the Association of University
Women, the National Achievement Award, 1940; and Outstanding Woman of the Twentieth Century by the Nationwide Women Editors. Her most
famous books include Coming of Age in Samoa, Growing Up in New Guinea, From the South Seas, Male and Female,
and Anthropology: A Human Science. Miss Mead is considered an expert in such fields as education and culture, the relationship
between character structure and social forms, personality and culture, cultural aspects of problems of nutrition, mental health, family life, cross-national
relations, and national character.

Ensemble To Give Sunday Program

The Davidson College wind ensemble will present a lawn concert Sunday afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in the Fine Arts Quadrangle.
According to Dr. Grier Williams, director, the concert will be “typical summer-band-in-the-park stuff.” On the program of eight selections are
marches, medleys, and classical music. Dr. Williams said that the concert will be “geared to everybody’s taste.” Included will be
“Brighton Beach,” “U. S. Field Artillery,” “The Vanquished Army,” “H. M. S. Pinafore,” “Invocation of Alberich,” “Funiculi” and “Die Fledermaus.”

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after Vespers this Sunday night:
Orr
Roberts
Polley
Sackett
Puckett
Schenck
Patterson, W. B.

Note: Sackett and Orr will hold open house at the home.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and
SPAGHETTI

How to make a snap course out of a tough one! Obviously, Olds 4-4-2 crammed for its finals. It masters
miles with a 400-cubic-inch V-8, 4-barrel carb, and a rumbling pair of pipes. Cools corners with heavy-duty suspension and front
and rear stabilizers. Goes to the head of its class with the sportiest configuration ever to top four red-line tires.
All this, and straight A’s in economics, too... like matching its modest price to your pocket! LOOK TO OLDS FOR
THE NEW! TORONADO • NINETY-EIGHT • STARFIRE • EIGHTY-EIGHT • CUTLASS • F-85 • VISTA-CRUISER • 4-4-2 OLDSMOBILE GREAT TIME
TO GO WHERE THE ACTION IS... SEE YOUR NEARBY OLDSMOBILE QUALITY DEALER NOW!
