PAGE SIX

By GREY PASH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson fraternity presidents voted at a meeting Sunday to express their objections to two parts of the recommendations made
last week by the Social Life Evaluation Committee. The second of the committee's seven recommendations was that the freshman class
be required to eat in the Union both semesters. One reason for this, the report stated, was to help maintain
a superior level of food service. The fraternity presidents were opposed to this generally for several reasons.

ASSOCIATION

“The objection to this recommendation,” stated Frank Gibbes, Pi Kappa Phi president, “was based on the belief that the freshmen
have an opportunity for a valuable association with upperclassmen, and seniors especially. I think it is necessary for a proper
integration into college life at Davidson.” This was the major concern of the presidents in objecting to this lack of
exposure to upperclassmen. They also felt that it would be a barrier to fraternity unity. “The report seems inconsistent at
this point in removing all artificial barriers between upperclassmen and freshmen by recommending basically unrestricted rush (recommendation four) and then
placing this very binding limitation on the fraternities,” said Billy Clark, president of Kappa Sigma.

CONTACT

“It may be sort of selfish, but I would miss the contact with the pledges, and I don’t believe that
it is too trite to say that the freshmen would benefit from more contact with the seniors,” Clark added. The
increased financial burden on fraternities by having no pledges eating second semester was mentioned, but it was generally felt that
this problem could be worked out if it became necessary.

BURDEN

“The college is placing a burden on the fraternities in order to make its (the college's) job easier,” said Jim
Martin, Pi Kappa Alpha president. “The fraternities have financial problems in maintaining a superior level of food service as well
as the college does.” The basic problem found in the committee’s recommendation to have rush second semester was the increased
burden placed on the upperclassmen and freshmen.

COLISEUM SEATING

The shaded areas on this diagram of the Charlotte Coliseum indicate the areas reserved for student seating. The Athletic Department
reserves approximately 900 seats in one circle section, two mezzanine sections, and three middle balcony sections, Athletic Director Tom Scott
told THE DAVIDSONIAN. “We hold some extras in case the students want more,” he said. Ticket prices range from three
dollars in the circle to two dollars in the middle balcony; students get the tickets at half-price.

Fraternity Presidents Object To Proposals

It was agreed that the most preferable time for rush was during orientation period before classes started.

INFORMAL RUSH

“Dealing from the upperclassmen's standpoint,” Clark said, “there is always a period of heightened activity in informal rush for several
weeks preceding the formal period of rush. If rush was at the first of the second semester, the increased informal
rush would fall during exams.” IFC President Jim Terry said that he thought pre-school rush would work out very well.
The freshman could be an affiliate first semester and then pledging could take place second semester. “The main thing is
to get rush over with as soon as possible,” Terry added.

TOTAL OPPORTUNITY

The reaction of the fraternity presidents toward the total opportunity bidding system proposed by the committee was generally one of
opposition, but the recommendation was not formally opposed as the presidents felt that this change was inevitable. Clark's reaction to
this section and to the report in general was that it was “probably a reflection of the spirit of the
times, what's blowin’ in the wind.”

The recommendation was amended by the faculty committee from that which was printed last week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

CHANGE

The first sentence of Recommendation Five now reads, “That the Interfraternity Council submit to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs,
and Social Life by March 1, 1967, a workable plan whereby every freshman so desiring be given opportunity for affiliation
with a fraternity (the range of affiliation to be considered shall be from what is now meant by ‘social affiliate’
to what is now meant by ‘member’ or ‘brother’).” This part previously read, “That the Interfraternity Council submit to the
Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life by March 1, 1967, a workable plan whereby every freshman desiring a
bid gets one.”

DESTRUCTIVE

In commenting on this proposal, Gibbes said, “I am personally opposed to any form of total opportunity or 100 percent
bidding because I feel that it will destroy the values of the system as we have it now. Realistically, however,
there is no way around it. We must go into this thing with a positive attitude and achieve a workable
solution which is as agreeable as possible to everyone concerned.”

Mrs. Nicholls Plans Reservation Changes

This year upperclassmen will be able to reserve their present rooms up until the general drawings for new rooms, instead
of being required to decide before the drawing whether to keep their present room. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of Dormitories,
stated that this would probably be the only change from last year’s system. The procedure consists of drawing numbers from
a bowl to determine in what order room choices will be made. Rising seniors will get first pick, and so
on down through the three classes.

Last year there were several complaints of sophomores moving in with seniors in desirable rooms to reserve the room for
the following year. Most of the complaints concerned Duke Dormitory. However, Mrs. Nicholls reported that this year no sophomores or
juniors have moved into Duke since September. Concerning another problem of last year, she vowed, “Mrs. Gillespie and I will
exercise all vigilance so that nobody draws more than once. But a lot depends on the integrity of the students.”
She mentioned the possibility of a punchboard to replace the present system.

Capt. J. B. Woods Killed in Viet Nam

Capt. James B. Woods III, son of Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Woods of...

Upcoming ‘Miscellany’ Seeks Student Contributions

Editor Charles Vick commented this week that he was “very satisfied” with the first publication of The Miscellany last December.
Vick also stated that the magazine was very well received throughout the campus, especially by the faculty. To some students’
objections to a lack of student entries, Vick replied that there were few student contributions. He stressed that The Miscellany
was essentially a student magazine and urged students to send in contributions of any sort at any time. He wished
to form a backlog of contributions to use in future publications.The magazine will be enlarged and will probably be distributed
around late February or early March. It will contain more student contributions, including a short story, a review, and several
poems. In this issue, a Davidson graduate will interview Stephen Spender, an English poet and critic who is the advisor
to the Library of Congress on Poetics, and also Patrick Colum, a Welsh playwright who is an expert on Yeats.
An article on Albert Camus by Dr. T. A. Williams, associate professor of French, and several color reproductions of Herb
Jackson's illustrations will also be included.

Davidson, was killed late last week in South Viet Nam, Capt. Woods, whose father is company commander at the time
of his death. After attending North High School, he graduated from Davidson in 1962. At Davidson, Woods was a member
of Kappa Sigma. He served as an ROTC company commander and was a member of Scabbard and Blade.

The second issue of The Miscellany will take a much greater part of the $2,409 budget; the first issue cost
about $840. If the cost of the second issue is not too great, there will be a third volume at
the end of this year. Vick has asked students to increase the next issue's circulation by giving subscriptions to their
parents.

Mary's Features Food, Atmosphere, Reading
By JOE SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Hey, let's go down to Mary's.” This oft-heard expression refers to Mary’s (or the M and M Soda Shop to
the out-crowd), one of the most popular places in Davidson, and not just because it's one of the few soda
shops in the town. Mary’s has a certain atmosphere all its own—formed from such diverse elements as perpetual WBT radio
commercials, stacks of magazines ranging from True Confession to Bronze Thrill, and of course, the shop's famous egg-salad sandwiches.

Although not the prototype of a small-town beanery, it meets the demands of the most particular Davidson student. As nearly
everyone knows, Mary's is run by Mrs. Mary Potts and Murray Fleming, partners in the enterprise for over 16 years.
They do a thriving business in all sorts of foods and sundries, but strangely enough, the M and M Soda
Shop doesn’t sell sodas. Their specialty, egg salad sandwiches, is followed by chicken salad, cream cheese, and olive sandwiches,” says
Murray caustically, as he pops two grilled-cheese sandwiches into the toaster.

During chapel periods on Wednesday and Friday and on Saturday night, the shop is full of students who squeeze into
one of the six booths to talk or read the magazines, ignoring the sign which forbiddingly warns: “For Sale Only.”
Asked why the sign wasn't removed, since no attention was paid to it, Murray only sighs and replies: “Everybody would
ask why we took it down,” as he reaches for the mayonnaise.

The shop, open from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekdays and until 9 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, depends
on students for about 80 percent of its business, but the shop serves as a convenient meeting place between students
and townpeople. Mary and Murray have implicit trust in all students: They merely ask a customer what he had when
he’s ready to pay, and they never refuse to cash a student’s check.

Many students have always wondered what goes on behind the partition in the middle of the room. Mary slyly admitted
that it serves as a second room for two students, Jim and Conrad Martin. “As employees emeritus, we give them
the run of the place,” Mary quipped.

The occasional complaint of slow service during rush hours brings a dry “I do my best” from Murray, as he
mechanically continues slapping chicken salad between two slices of toast, never losing his composure in the meantime. Students may come
and go; Davidson may expand ten times over, or it may fold up forever, but there will always be a
Mary’s.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966

Holbrook As Twain
(Right) Holbrook To Present

The Artist Series will present the noted American star, Hal Holbrook, in his one-man presentation “Mark Twain Tonight!” at 8:15
p.m. Monday in Chambers Auditorium.

The 37-year-old actor has a rich theatrical and academic background that has assisted him in perfecting his performance as Mark
Twain. He conceived his solo show in 1953 and since his first tour of America in 1959, Holbrook has played
in upwards of 250 cities. More recently he toured Europe under the auspices of the U.S. State Department and also
played a two-week engagement in Saudi Arabia under the auspices of the Arabian American Oil Company. He was the first
American actor ever to appear in a solo performance at the Edinburgh Festival.

Holbrook's impersonation of Mark Twain is said to be as accurate as indefatigable research can make it. Every word that
he speaks on stage is Twain's. Every gesture is genuine, according to the best recollection of people who knew the
celebrated humorist or attended one of his lectures. During the course of each evening’s performance, Holbrook proceeds from the “humorous-profound”
observations that were the author's trademark to selections from Huckleberry Finn.

At least half the students working 13 weeks earned $1500 or more. And here's what others earned ... even those
working fewer weeks: 1 out of 2 earned $121 or more a week, 1 out of 4 earned $133 or
more a week, 1 out of 3 earned $139 or more a week. You can earn as much or more
this summer ... and you need no sales experience. You're carefully trained and work on proven routes where people have
been buying Good Humor for years. Everything supplied, free ... there’s nothing to invest.

TO QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW
1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver’s license ... and must be able to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to schedule you for our campus visit.

INTERVIEW DATE
An Equal Opportunity Employer, (M/F)
