Page Six December 8, 1966

ROTC soldiers took a break from their usual Tuesday afternoon ritual of marching this week to enjoy a little fun and games. Events such as the blindfolded wheelbarrow race, the caterpillar race, and dash-and-grab for football contests pictured above were all part of the competition designed to select the best company for the semester. The activities of Tuesday afternoon, which were the most important of any of the single-day programs, were won by the Band and Honor Guard company. Other contests included an egg throw, a tug of war, and butt-ball (butting a football across a line with the head). (Staff Photo by Olsen)

Conklin Describes Sea Earlier As Wonder, Challenge

Naturalist Roger Conklin, speaking at chapel Tuesday, termed the sea "a veritable treasure house—truly the most challenging area to man today." Conklin, director of public relations at the Miami Seaquarium, issued a challenge to the student body when he spoke on the wonders and the exciting riches that the sea has to offer. "This world of the ocean," he said, "is literally our world of tomorrow."

Conklin stated that although the world of the stars is exciting, man has yet to find life there, while the sea is the last frontier on earth, the cradle of life, and "tomorrow the home of man as well. The sea is the greatest challenge to man. Yet oceanography is in the covered wagon stage." Man is just discovering the sea. Conklin said, "The ocean is vast, but I have the utmost confidence that man can utilize every inch."

According to Conklin, man has turned to the sea out of necessity and his interest in it is no longer a passing fancy. Already, man is learning to get fresh water from the sea. Its food, if extracted, could save the world from starvation. Fishbone flour is an example. The mineral wealth, Conklin said, is enormous, with an estimated $200 trillion of gold. Magnesium, iodine, and oil are also found, but man needs less expensive means of mining the sea. "We have a very great stake," he emphasized, "in the conservation of the sea."

Conklin predicted that while man will be walking on the moon, he will also be living in cities under the sea, that this is practical, and that "the wonders we will see will surpass all that is on the surface." He then presented some examples of sea life: a deep-sea fish, the jaws of a tiger shark, and a tooth of a prehistoric shark. He spoke of the possible existence of a 100-foot eel, a chemical test from the livers of sharks that could help conquer cancer, and the intelligence of the dolphin, "one of the most fascinating, most promising creatures in the ocean."

"The sea is yours," Conklin concluded, "and you will be called upon to play your part in reaping its challenging rewards."

Gov. Romney Voices Unlikely Conservative Attitude

Chances for pre-Christmas examinations in the next few years appear to be slim, according to a report given by John Fagg at the Student Council meeting Monday night. Fagg stated that the faculty Academic Scheduling Committee, which considered the possible schedule change, had several objections to the proposal. The committee did not feel that the basketball schedule was any great impediment to the change, but that pre-Christmas exams would leave an "extra month" in the winter which would be awkward in the scheduling.

The committee also said it would be difficult to work out a baseball schedule if the spring semester ended earlier in the year. The basic argument was against changing an already stabilized scheduling system. The scheduling change, which was urged by the student body in a Student Council questionnaire last year, will now be added to the agenda of the Blue Sky committee.

Michigan's Governor George Romney is a man often billed as a member of the GOP's new "progressive" wing. But as a man who may be the next president of the United States, he can sound like a conservative when the occasion calls for it. And while he was in Charlotte Wednesday, the time called for it.

The greying governor made two talks in Charlotte, one to the annual meeting of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. Immediately afterwards he spoke to an enthusiastic group of Mecklenburg County Republicans who had come to pay homage. Romney talked essentially about the federal system and the means by which the states' part of government participation was being eroded. On the other hand, he scorned those who are "concerned about centralization" but who "turn their backs on the problem" when approached on the state or local level.

Christmas Vespers To Be Held Sunday

The annual Christmas vesper service, consisting of a festival of nine lessons and carols, will be held Sunday night at 7:40 in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. "This is historically a full-house service, and it has always been a voluntary affair," emphasized College Chaplain Scott Woodmansey. "I want the student body to...

Charlotte Minister Considers Meaning Of Life As Optimistic

By GARY SIGMON Staff Writer

An optimistic answer to the question of the meaning of life was offered by the Rev. Don Durway of Charlotte's Covenant Presbyterian Church during a sermon Sunday. Durway used the theory of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, French philosopher, as the basis of his presentation. Durway said that a belief in Jesus Christ provided a foundation of the meaning of life for many people. But many people, especially college students, felt that they were "wild animals, stranded on a desolate planet." Some people see humanity as "boisterous bits of scum" or "an ingenious assembly of plumbing," he said. Ernest Hemingway viewed life as a "colony of ants."

Durway emphasized that many people who could not find a meaning in life were driven to despair.Editor: BILL OLSSON
Photographers: DON CARROLL, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: LOU HILL, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISSER
Contributors this week: John Williams, Tom Wheatley, Chuck Green, Kenneth Hamilton, Gary Simon, Ken Cool, Franklin Anderson, Johnny Rowe, Bob Buchanan, Bob Dunham, Bruce Walker, Robert Pyeats, Bill Smyth, Brodie Brown, Danny Calteane, Lewis Lavine, Cliff Duke, Don Sewell, Bob Albee, Rick Sanders, Joel Keys, David King, Chip Robertson, and Sam Bell.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

comforting solution to the meaning of life brought their lives to an end by committing suicide. He said that people try to find meaning in life by grasping it and trying to squeeze ecstasy and joy out of every moment. Durway said life should be lived on a basis of self-giving and responsible love. “Our generation has lost sense of the holiness of life,” Reverend Durway stated.

Chardin’s theory is based on an evolution of mankind. The universe is evolving. This evolution is revealed in the spirit of God. To realize the meaning of this theory, one must be convinced that everything is contained in the world and is related. Matter, life, and thought are all linked in this relationship. Secondly, one must understand that everything changes by becoming more complex. “The universe is not the termination of mystery,” said Durway.

Reverend Durway said that an important question is, “What directions are these changes taking?” These changes seem to be heading toward a greater complexity. Man is complex because he can think and reflect. Therefore, as he thinks more he becomes more complex. “The spirit (of God) is the manifestation of complexity,” Durway stated.

According to this theory, the evolution of mankind is toward a “unanimousness of consciousness” guided by the power of love. This evolution toward complexity is an evolution toward the emerging spirit within our universe. This is where faith in God becomes important. Durway pointed out that God is at the “heart of man's being” throughout life. He does not just have significance at the beginning and end of the universe. Durway said that we are “in the process of becoming,” but we have not yet reached the ultimate in the spiritual evolution. He said we find no ultimate meaning in every moment of our life and have no complete fulfillment of every hope. “The end of evolution will be good by faith in God,” Durway hypothesized.

“I realize this is a primarily musical program,” Woodmansee said. Featured in the musical portion of the program will be the male chorus, the brass choir, and the wind ensemble. Henry Whitfield and Stephen Bruce will give two vocal solos with Wilner Welsh at the organ. An unusual attraction of the Vesper service will be the presentation, led by Ken Scott, of an ancient form for corporate worship first employed centuries ago at Kings College, Cambridge, England.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Phone 892-2111
Russell Stover Candies
Christmas Gifts
Your Neighborhood Drug Store
Open 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Davidson, N.C.

hear one side. The conservative businessmen who make up the chamber’s backbone applauded loudly at Romney's allusions to weakening of the democratic system of government and jeopardizing private institutions and human liberty. As he got away from emotion and into specific proposals, the audience cooled somewhat. First, he said, “we must correct an imbalance in our national tax structure which shortchanges state and local governments. They’re running out of money.” High national taxes make any increase in local taxation impossible, he said. Second, “we must modernize the structure of state and local government. Local governments must be modernized within a framework of strong local self-government. Local governments must especially be urged to consolidate where necessary and to solve area-wide problems through inter-governmental arrangements.”

Romney’s talk to the chamber was ostensibly non-political, but there was no pretense of making his GOP talk so. “The November elections prove the disillusionment with gung-ho laws that don’t get results. They give the Republican Party a tremendous opportunity to prove itself.”

Visit The Village Store
Main St. Davidson, N.C.
Special Christmas Gift Selection of MA-LECK WOODCRAFT has just arrived.

Don't FORGET you’re going home NEXT weekend. We can send you back in clean clothes and neat laundered shirts.

JACKSON CLEANERS
W. Main St. Across from Gulf Station

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

In what may have been an attempt to shed the progressive label in a region where Republicans are notoriously conservative, he affirmed “there is no basic difference between a conservative and a liberal.” “The genuine conservative believes in resolving a problem on the basis of proven methods, while a genuine liberal believes in individual liberty. Each has to borrow the concepts of the other,” he said.

The governor attached an almost charismatic quality to the United States and its constitution. “A fundamental premise is that the U.S. isn’t just another nation—it was brought into being by the hand of Providence.” And the Constitution was a miracle, he said, framed by men who not only searched out the wisdom of the ages but also sought and received divine guidance.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2444

Make RUSH WILSON, Ltd. the center for all of your Christmas Shopping. We now have a very nice selection of skirts, sweaters, and blouses for mom, sister, or that favorite girlfriend. Also, there is a fine selection of suits, sport coats, slacks, sweaters, shirts, and other gift items for pop or brother. Come in today and let us help you make a nice selection.

Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N.C.
Greenville, S.C.

ANNOUNCING!
THE PROVIDENCE MANOR INN
611-A Providence Rd. (in Manor Theater Building)
BY POPULAR DEMAND resumes serving delicious sandwiches from 12 noon until 6 p.m. daily. This convenient and cozy restaurant-lounge in the Myers Park area has the most relaxing atmosphere in town and it’s only five blocks from Queens College. Students will particularly enjoy the food and casual atmosphere with music from the big band era available throughout the evening. All Beer 40c