VOL. LV > The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 COURT, COUNCIL APPROVE Tuesday Vote Planned On Honor Amendments The student body will vote Tuesday on three proposed amendments to the Student Body Constitution. The proposals, which concern changes in the Honor System and the Honor Court, were presented to the student body by Student Council President Bill Council and Honor Court Chairman Jim Stokes in chapel Tuesday. If passed, the first proposed amendment will change Article V, Section 5 of the Student Body Constitution to read, “Trial procedure shall be determined by the Honor Court and made available to the student body. This shall include an investigation committee of three members elected by the Student Council and a defense advisor elected by the student body, who shall perform their duties as prescribed in the Honor Court procedure.” The second proposal provides for insertion of the word “ordinarily” into the Honor Code, Article VII, Section 5. This article would then read, “Every student found guilty of violating any section of this article shall ordinarily be dismissed from the college.” The third proposed amendment reads as follows, “Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution shall be deleted as it now reads and shall be replaced by an article which shall read: ‘The purpose of the Honor Court shall be to encourage and maintain the honor of the student body. Since Davidson strives to be a Christian college and thus recognizes both a concern for understanding and compassion as well as for justice and honor, the Court shall implement its purpose through instilling in the student body an awareness of the basic principles of honor, through administering the Honor System and through enforcing its decisions as it sees fit in the light of each individual case.’” In order for a proposed amendment to the Constitution to be presented to the student body, it must either be presented to the Student Council by a petition signed by 50 students, or it must pass a vote of the Student Council by a two-thirds majority. The first and third proposals to be voted upon Tuesday were drawn up by the Honor Court and were passed unanimously by the Student Council in its meeting Monday night. The second proposal was presented to the Student Council with the required 50 names. All three proposals now have the backing of Honor Court Chairman Jim Stokes, who said in Tuesday's chapel, “I urge you to vote favorably for each of them as I feel it would significantly strengthen the Honor System.” The proposals will be voted upon separately, with a two-thirds majority of those voting necessary to pass each proposal. Polls will be open from 8:30 a.m. till 12 and from 2 till 4 p.m. in the main hall of Chambers. Freshmen, who were not eligible to vote first semester, will vote for the first time in an official campus election.

CHEERLEADERS IN ACTION Governed By “Flexible” Rules Dave Powell Defends Cheerleading Squad By BOB TRAVERS Davidsonian Staff Writer Head cheerleader Dave Powell this week termed rules about cheerleaders’ attendance at athletic events “real flexible” and explained, “We don’t practice because our cheers are so simple.” When questioned about recent criticism of the squad, he admitted, “It does look real bad when they don't show up. I probably should be a little harder on them, but it's been a lot better this year than in the past.” “LOT WORSE” “There have been games when attendance was a lot worse than that,” commented Powell in reference to Saturday's game with VMI, which was attended by only three of the eight regular cheerleaders. “One fraternity had a party Saturday night,” explained Powell. Fortunately, sophomore Skip Balsley and freshman John Passmore subbed for two of the missing regulars. “When we have substitutes, they're usually pretty good,” Powell added, “sometimes better than the regulars.” Aside from Captain Powell, currently leading the cheering at Johnston Gymnasium are seniors Tommy Hunter, Champ Covington, and Randy McKnight; juniors Buddy Durham and Dave McCorkle; sophomore Gresh Bayne, and freshman K. Weeks. ELECTIONS Two rising seniors, one junior, and one sophomore are elected cheerleaders each year. Each remains a cheerleader as long as he is at Davidson. “I think it’s a good system,” Powell said. “It insures a certain amount of continuity—yet at the same time the squad gets new members each year.” In the face of criticism, Powell pointed out that several of the cheerleaders had gone out of their way to cheer at games in Charlotte during the Christmas vacation and at the Wake Forest game during semester break. “The cheerleaders attend the games that most students miss,” he said. IMPORTANCE Despite recent criticism, the cheerleaders are no doubt more important to the crowd than to the team. Basketball Coach Lefty Driesell noted that whereas the crowd's sentiments have an important effect on the team, the efforts of the cheerleaders probably aren’t too significant. “I think they've done a good job,” Driesell commented. Davidson's athletes probably agree with one member of the basketball team who said he really doesn’t notice what is going on in the crowd. “Still,” as one student said, “having a couple of good cheerleaders helps you to enjoy a game more.”

YMCA Encourages Payment Of Pledges The Davidson YMCA “Great Guy” campaign, which was held predominantly on Oct. 14, is still about $700 short of collecting all its pledges. On Oct. 14, about $4400 was either contributed or pledged by Davidson students and faculty to the YMCA for the year 1965-66. Through signs and posters on campus, the Y officers are trying to encourage all those who have not fulfilled their pledges to do so as soon as possible at the Y office on the second floor of the Union. The pledges were due Jan 1. Although they do not want to go to the students’ room to collect the pledges, the officers may have to resort to this method eventually. If a student is not sure whether he has fulfilled his pledge, he may check the record in the Y office. Joe Jelks, vice president of the YMCA and director of the campaign, emphasized “how pleased we are with the enthusiastic attitude that students have shown toward this drive.” He feels that the money which has been contributed “will strengthen the organization so that students can benefit more from it.”

Curriculum Changes Made For Next Year Lowered requirements for history honors, changes in major requirements, and a number of new courses will take effect for the year 1966-67 as a result of faculty action Tuesday on curriculum changes proposed by the various departments. In addition, a number of course descriptions will be altered in the catalog and several courses will be dropped. In the History Department, requirements for honors work will be lowered from a 2.25 average to 2.0 in order to make the course available to more students. History honors requirements will be 12 hours of seminars, six hours of regular course work, six hours of a senior honors tutorial in which a thesis is written, and an oral comprehensive examination. In addition, History 92 and 111 will be dropped and replaced by History 43, 44, 20th Century Europe. For a history major, a student will be required to select six hours each from three fields of concentration with six additional hours coming from any of the three fields. The fields are ancient, medieval, Renaissance and Reformation; English, modern European and Asian; and American. Beginning with the Class of ‘68, requirements for an English major will include 24 hours chosen from four of six areas. ENGLISH AREAS The areas are English literature to 1660; English literature, 1660-1800; English literature, 1800-1900; American literature; 20th century literature; and composition. No more than nine hours may be selected from American literature and 20th century literature and no more than three hours from composition. In addition, several courses in the department were renumbered to coincide with the areas of concentration. ADDITIONS In addition, English 105, History of English Drama, will be added. Requirements for a German major were changed to include several courses, and a number of courses were renumbered. For a major, a comprehensive examination will be required. German 51-52 was dropped and replaced by German 111, 112, German Literature of the 19th Century. Twelve three-hour seminars and tutorials will be offered in German, according to needs of students and availability of faculty. Three new courses will be offered by the Drama and Speech Department: Fundamentals of Debate, Theatre Workshop and Seminar. Psychology 102 will be deleted from the catalog and Psychology 200, Senior Thesis, will be offered. The course, carrying four hours credit, will be offered both semesters. Sociology 61, 62 will be dropped from the catalogue, as will Bible and Religion 26 and Fine Arts 62. Major requirements were slightly altered in philosophy, psychology and classics. Minor alterations were made in sociology, Bible and religion, English, German, psychology and classics. Course description changes will appear in Bible and religion, physics, fine arts and classics.SITUATION (See Page Two) NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Faculty Postpones Decision on Committee’s Proposals

Discussion Is Brief

How Does A Polack Protest! (See Page Three)

At Tuesday Meeting

The faculty discussed briefly the recommendations of the Social Life Evaluation Committee in its meeting Tuesday but postponed a vote on the proposals until later this month. President D. Grier Martin explained to THE DAVIDSONIAN that the matter was discussed in the meeting, but not to a degree which final decision. "Many other things had to be handled," Martin continued. "Most of the time was spent discussing the curriculum changes to be made. This particular matter had to be settled at this meeting, as it was the last one before the catalogue deadline." Martin added that he did not think the faculty had expected to complete discussion Tuesday on the committee’s recommendations, anyway. A special meeting at which the faculty will consider the proposals has been planned tentatively for Feb. 23. When asked if he thought the faculty would reach a decision on the recommendations when they next meet, Martin replied, "Based on my experience, I don't know. It is unlikely that we'll get completely through with the matter, and we might have to have another meeting." Dr. Martin said that the dragging on of the debate on what action the college should take regarding the fraternity issue is an indication of the seriousness of the problem. He further stated that the approach in the committee's report is a relatively new one, and that it may be a healthy situation for a faculty decision not to have come out of one meeting. "Time and thought are necessary, although some are impatient for action."

Election Procedure Set For Social Council Post

By BRUCE WEIHE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The chairman of next year’s Social Council shall be elected in a student body election Feb. 21 or 22, the Student Council decided Monday night. Dan Campbell, present Social Council chairman, outlined the procedure for candidates for the office and the mechanics of the election. One provision for candidacy is the presentation of a candidate's platform before the Social Council at their next meeting, Monday, at 6:30 p.m. in the Green Room. This platform will then be submitted to THE DAVIDSONIAN by Wednesday at 4 p.m. The platform statement is not to exceed 250 words.

PROSPECTIVE CANDIDATES

Campbell stressed that "at next week's Social Council meeting, prospective candidates will be expected to convince the Social Council of their ability to devote the time and effort required." There will be no set maximum number of candidates, although the Social Council will narrow the field. Campbell also requested that students wishing to run for the chairmanship sign up in his room before Monday night. Other provisions of the Social Council election procedure are that the office shall require a rising senior, and that next year’s treasurer shall be elected by the Social Council following the election of the chairman. The election procedure will be subject to review next fall prior to incorporation into the Student Body Constitution.

POLL

The results of last week's student body poll concerning scheduling and review and exam procedures were also presented at the Council meeting. According to the student opinion poll, 78 per cent of the student body favor a revised schedule with no Saturday classes. If Saturday classes do remain, however, 52 per cent would favor a straight morning schedule with no chapel opening on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, with chapel being held on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.

COURSE DROPPING

Three-fourths of the students felt that the present period allowed to drop a course was inadequate, with 70 per cent of them favoring a one-month period. More than 90 per cent expressed a preference for faculty handling of re-exam and review makeup schedules rather than the Dean of Students Office. Also, 60 per cent favored a schedule enabling first semester exams to end before Christmas, while 80 per cent backed changing the spring break to include Easter weekend. In other Student Council action, the Kuykendall petition concerning Honor Court procedures was presented to the Council by Jim Stokes, Honor Court chairman, who worked with George Kuykendall in revising the original petition. The Council approved for a student referendum the portions of Kuykendall’s petition which had been changed by agreement of Kuykendall and the Honor Court.

IFC Sets Greek Week, Limits Pledge Training

By RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council, in accordance with faculty rules, voted Monday night to terminate pledge training programs at the end of Greek Week, April 8. Greek Week will begin the first day after spring break, April 4, and continue until 5 p.m. April 8. A banquet for the pledges will probably be held sometime during the first part of the week. David Westfall, Pi Kappa Phi representative, was appointed chairman of the Greek Week Committee. The decision to terminate pledge training at the end of eight weeks is in direct conflict with the national rules of three fraternities that require a pledge period of three months.

EXTENSION

Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, said that in those cases where this rule could not be waived by the national fraternity in question, an extension of the pledge period would be granted if the fraternity could show why it needed a longer amount of time. Covington said that he feels that this year’s freshmen are suited to a more concentrated pledge program rather than the programs of the past which lasted more than a semester.

MEANINGLESS ACTIVITIES

Rather than meaningless activities—calisthenics in the night, road trips and stud running—Covington suggests that pledges be given a chance to sit in on various committees, work with the officers of the fraternity on a rotation basis to get an idea of the workings of the fraternity, or create their own projects such as parties for the fraternity or community service. In this way the pledge gains a working knowledge of the operation of the fraternity and becomes a more useful member upon initiation.

INTERFERENCE

According to Covington there are more extracurricular activities this semester, and an extensive pledge period would interfere with these activities as well as crowd the final exams. Covington expressed much concern over the hazing that reportedly takes place as a part of many pledge programs and emphasized that it would not be tolerated. He dug into the Consolidated Statutes of the State of North Carolina and found several articles pertaining to this problem.

N. C. LAW

The law states: “It shall be unlawful for any student to engage in what is known as hazing. Hazing is defined as follows: ‘To annoy any student by playing abusive or ridiculous tricks upon him; to frighten, scold, beat or harass him; or to subject him to personal indignity.’ Any violation of this act shall constitute a misdemeanor. Upon conviction of any student of the offense of hazing, he shall, in addition to any punishment imposed by the court, be expelled from the college or school he is attending. The faculty or governing board of that school charged with the duty of expulsion of students shall expel the offender, and failure to do so shall be a misdemeanor.”

LAST-MINUTE MOVE

By PRICE CAMERON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Social Life Evaluation Committee, after meeting with the Interfraternity Council and the fraternity president last Friday, changed its recommendation of 100 per cent bidding to one of 100 per cent "affiliation." "The original was plainly unpalatable to most fraternity men, and some members of the committee felt that it would not draw much cooperation from the fraternities," remarked Dr. W. G. Workman, committee chairman, this week. "After meeting with the fraternity presidents last Friday, the committee voted to widen the range of possible connection with a fraternity," he said. "If the new proposal is approved by the faculty," Workman continued, "the decision on the specific kind of affiliation would be in the hands of the fraternities of the IFC." The new recommendation states that the IFC should submit to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life by March, 1967, a workable plan whereby every freshman so desiring to be given opportunity for affiliation with a fraternity. The range of affiliation to be considered shall be from what is now meant by "social affiliate" to what is now meant by "member" or "brother." This plan would go into effect for rush during 1967-68. The only restriction on the nature of the plan would be that in such a system every student should be given the opportunity of remaining affiliated for at least one year with the ordinarily permitted social and eating privileges of the house. The former recommendation stated that every freshman desiring a bid should get one, and that he should be allowed to remain a pledge for at least a year. Dr. Workman emphasized that the present form of the proposal makes possible the adoption of its earlier form, while giving greater leeway to the fraternities. The committee also voted to have its proposed restrictions on contact between freshmen and upperclassmen apply only during Monday through Friday of each week.