VOL. LV

Board Plans Study Of Pay For Editors

A proposal to compensate the editors of Davidson's four student publications may result from a study being undertaken by the
outgoing editors. John Todd, chairman of the Publications Board, which recommended the study last month, told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week
that his group is presently compiling information from colleges that compare with Davidson either in enrollment or in the size
and frequency of their publications.

“A study such as this has been needed for a long time at Davidson,” Todd remarked, “because of the tremendous
extracurricular work which is placed on the editors here.” The size and quality of the publications have been increasing recently,
he stated, “and along with that the time and workload increase also.”

Todd, who is the immediate past editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, estimated that he spent “from 20 to 25 hours each
week on matters related to the newspaper.” The Handbook, the freshman handbook which is published each fall, THE DAVIDSONIAN compares
its size and frequency of publication with student newspapers at Wake Forest, Vanderbilt, and Emory, whose enrollments are three to
five times as large as Davidson's, Todd said. Snider remarked that the Davidson yearbook outstrips many colleges with comparable enrollments.

A study of the situation at Davidson is long overdue, Todd added, because of the natural reticence on the part
of editors to undertake the investigation which would be to their immediate benefit. “Such a study as we have in
mind will determine whether Davidson wishes to recognize and to compensate its superior position in the field of student publications
as it does in other academic endeavors,” he stated.

But the benefits of this study will actually be to the school and to future students and not necessarily for
the present editors,” the board chairman pointed out. Todd said that, although any detailed proposal would not be forthcoming at
least until next year, by initiating the investigation before graduation the outgoing editors hope to encourage the new editors to
carry out the study to a satisfactory conclusion.

“There's a lot out of proportion in this area,” Todd asserted, “and if anything, this study should eliminate a lot
of that inequity.”

Terry Gives Support To Vespers Changes

When asked to express his opinion on the faculty's decision to abolish compulsory Vespers for a two-year trial period, Chaplain
Will Terry replied that he too had come to the somewhat reluctant conclusion that this was a necessary move.

“Vespers no longer has the support or encouragement of the faculty,” he said. Some faculty members even openly discourage it.
Students have also come to resent it to such a degree that it does more harm than good. Vespers seems
to have created a hostility toward religion and toward the church. It has become the expression of Davidson's Christian commitment,
and one church service a week simply does not fulfill this commitment.”

Terry believes that this may be the beginning of a new era for Davidson. “I finally came to support the
move, but I regret it,” he continued. “This could mark the decline of Davidson as a Christian institution.”

“Whether the decline occurs,” Terry stated, “depends on how we fill the vacuum left by the removal of Vespers and
how the faculty accept their responsibility to a Christian commitment that they have made to the administration. The burden is
now on the administration and the faculty to make Davidson’s Christian commitment a valid and vital aspect.”

Margaret Mead Here

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Margaret Mead, Davidson's final Reynolds Lecturer this year, is a dumpy little lady, who walks to the podium carrying
a walking stick almost as tall as herself. She impresses you more as a slightly bohemian grandmother than as one
of America's foremost thinkers and social scientists. Even the long list of honors and degrees she has won, of learned
societies to which she belongs, are not completely convincing — until she begins to speak. With that, the listener realizes
how well deserved Dr. Mead's reputation really is. And yet, this does not make her at all the fearsome personality
that reputations often make of people. You still feel as though she must be a pretty interesting and congenial character.

After spending Wednesday afternoon in the Union in an informal discussion, Dr. Mead gave her first lecture in Hodson Hall
Wednesday night. She claimed to be worried.

Student Vote Approves New Regulations Court

Proposed amendments to create a Student Body Regulations Court passed by a vote of 280 to 44 in Monday's referendum.
“The court will go into effect immediately to try violations of the Student Body Regulations,” stated Senior Class President Paul
Marion. Inauguration of the new court will complete changes in the Honor Court system which have been the result of
more than a year’s study. Other actions initiated by this study have resulted in Student Council and Honor Court members
no longer being bound to report Honor system violations, the modification of the purpose of the Honor Court and the
removal of the drinking.

Observer Honors Briggs

BM Briggs won a $15 second place award in judging in the fourth annual Observer-News College Press Competition. Briggs’ entry
was in the Best Sports Story division and was a column on recruiting methods used on an area prep basketball
star who had considered attending Davidson. In other awards, THE DAVIDSONIAN won an honorable mention in the Best Newspaper division,
as it placed second to The Daily Tar Heel, published by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Louis
Lesesne received an honorable mention in the Best News Story Division, placing third to entries from The Daily Tar Heel
and The Old Gold and Black, weekly publication of Wake Forest College. The competition was open to all colleges in
North and South Carolina. There were 470 entries from 22 newspapers.

Burts Airs Plan

In many areas of Davidson College life the students and faculty have the same interests and are concerned about the
same things, but the facts that students and faculty have and base their ideas on are different. This is the
problem that Dean of Students Richard C. Burts is attempting to solve. In appearances of the Faculty Executive Committee meeting
on Monday and the faculty meeting on Tuesday he expressed concern over the problem and indicated that he was initiating
a study in this area. It concerns a possible “campus government” instead of the two separate and distinct governments now
functioning on the campus.

A campus government, already practiced by some other schools, Antioch and Kenyon for example, consists of faculty and students working
together on such problems as curriculum and discipline. Dean Burts stated that there was no “real reaction” at the faculty
meeting to this proposal, but that some professors had expressed interest to him since that time.

It is obvious to some that no line can be drawn between what is purely a concern of the faculty
and what is entirely up to the students. This new government would attempt to find rapport and harmony as students
work together in search of a common ground, so that instead of pulling apart, they could work for the same
goals.

In a conversation with Dean Burts, he cited the jurisdiction problem as an example. On the Davidson campus there are
two separate courts, one administered by the students, the other by the faculty. Over the course of the year as
problems of discipline have arisen, it has become evident that the punishment administered to someone would differ according to whether
the case is tried by students or faculty. This creates a definite split between the two. While both are concerned
about the same things, facts possessed or not possessed by one or the other create the split between the ideas
about what action should be taken.

Under the system that now exists, communication between faculty and students is on an entirely informal basis. In some cases
it is channeled by way of a petition or by conversations with either Dean Burts, President.and gambling rules. Marion explained
that this will transfer power from the Honor Court to the new Student Body Regulations Court, said D. G. Martin,
or another faculty member, to try violations of the honor system. Martin cited the difficulty of approaching anyone when they
are the object of the complaint, and yet this direct confrontation must take place. The new court will use an
advisor and an investigation committee. The procedure for trials will be the same as those that take place before the
Honor Court. Students now serve on the Student Body Regulations Court, Academic Scheduling Committee, the Campus Life, and the Action
Section Committee. Their presence here is felt and students on other committees could accomplish more.

The reason for setting up the new court is to elevate the positions of the Honor Court and the honor
system so that the Honor Court will no longer try offenses less than those of the honor system. In the
past, Marion said, this direct confrontation and people have been reluctant to turn in offenses of the Student Body Regulations
because they were tried by the Honor Court. Both the Student Body Regulations and the honor system will be better
enforced.

Marion spoke about the difficulty of communication between generations, although she seemed to manage quite well herself and drew several
parallels between her college generation of the twenties and ours of the sixties. “The twenties was a lively period,” she
remembered. “There was a sense of urgency, a sense of the urgent need for some kind of solution for world
order.” This sense of urgency was reflected in Dr. Mead's choice of a vocation. “I decided to go into anthropology
because it was a very pressing thing to do, to study variations in human behavior, because we had the sense
of a standardized society. Once these variations were wiped out, we would never again have access to that degree of
variation.”

Dr. Mead emphasized that both the past and the future, which we have to be concerned with, are changing. “One
of the things that weighs on the present generation is the sense of the tremendous past which we have to
do something about. Today our necessary relation with the past has changed. The schism in our thinking about past and
future tends to make us ignore the past entirely, which is a serious mistake according to Dr. Mead. We must
find a sense of perspective on our present and future problems by an integration in our thinking about past and
future.”

In her talk on Thursday morning, Dr. Mead spoke on “Preparing for the Year 2000.” She outlined three main problems
that will confront us between now and then. “One of the problems of the post-war world has been people’s inability
to believe in the future,” because of the threat of nuclear annihilation. “We have entered a new period in human
evolution, and an irreversible period,” she said, emphasizing the permanence of the situation. “We are never going to get rid
of the possibility that we could destroy all of us. The same imaginative faculty is behind man's best behavior and
his worst behavior,” claimed Dr. Mead. Our task is to prevent the destruction of the human race by concentrating on
developing the best.

The second great problem she mentioned is that of the population explosion, pointing out that “No society has been willing
ethically to stand behind population control. Now for the first time in history, every country is so interrelated with every
other country that they know for the future some kind of population balance must be struck. We're going to have
to realize that with human beings, individuals contribute not only by reproduction but by ideas.”

Thirdly, Dr. Mead spoke on the problem of superabundant production. “Now, for the first time in history,” she said, “we're
going to have so much that our only problem will be how to distribute it.”

YEAR'S WRAP UP OF YMCA SPEAKERS (See Page Three)

NUMBER THIRTY

Faculty Action Passes Trustee Vespers Plan Services Suspended For Next Two Years

The faculty, acting upon a proposal made by the Trustees last week and in conjunction with the report of the
Religious Life Committee, suspended compulsory Vesper services for the next two academic years. During the meeting Tuesday afternoon, the Religious
Life Committee's report was accepted, and a resolution which the report recommended was passed after being amended to include the
Trustees’ proposal. The resolution in its full form declared: “That compulsory religious services on Sunday be suspended at the end
of this academic year for two years and that a comprehensive program of religious activities as manifested in this report
(the Religious Life Committee’s report) become an expression of Davidson's Christian commitment.”

COMMITMENT

The Religious Life Committee, after surveying other Presbyterian schools similar to Davidson, concluded that “Davidson can maintain its Christian commitment
without compulsory Vespers.” In order to maintain Davidson's commitment, the committee went on to make three recommendations. First, the report
called for the continuance and improvement of weekly chapel programs of a religious nature. The second recommendation requested the administration
to establish a new system for carrying out Davidson's religious activities. Thirdly, the report suggested that voluntary religious exercises be
implemented in place of compulsory vespers.

RECOMMENDATIONS

The committee advised that two committees be created to put their second recommendation into effect. One would be vested with
the responsibility for making policies and supervising the religious life of the campus. The other would be given the task
of implementing the policies of the Committee on Religious Policy.

VOLUNTARY SERVICES

Some 16 ideas for voluntary religious activity were presented by the report. Voluntary Vespers services, “after the time for observed
Sunday evening of the nature of required worship,” a midweek prayer and worship service, and attempts by the local churches
to attract students to their Sunday services were listed as ways of directly fulfilling Davidson's Christian commitment. Among the ideas
presented by the report were a religious focus week, dorm discussions, forums, weekend seminars, and musical and dramatic presentations of
a religious nature.

Golfers, Netters Take Titles

Capping one of the most successful sports years in the school's history, the Wildcat tennis and golf teams posted easy
wins in their respective tournaments to bring to three the total of Southern Conference championships for Davidson this year. Coach
Harry Fogleman's charges ran away with the tennis victory so completely that the ‘Cats had it won before the final
day. Dr. Tom Scott's golfers survived a charge by William and Mary and produced a bigger one of their own
to win going away. See page five for details on both tournaments.

Professors Evaluate Curriculum

By MARK ROBINSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

How do Davidson professors feel about the curriculum in their departments at the present time? THE DAVIDSONIAN conducted an informal
telephone survey to answer this question and found many faculty members reluctant to make firm public statements. Others had not
yet formulated their ideas into concrete proposals. Some, however, knew what they wanted and freely told THE DAVIDSONIAN what they
felt should be done.

Dr. W. G. McGavack, chairman of the math department, has just returned from a curriculum study conference of liberal arts
colleges in New York. According to McGavack, the overall Davidson program compares “very favorably” with those of good liberal arts
colleges across the entire nation. He said he was not completely satisfied with the math curriculum but was “highly delighted”
with how Davidson compared with such schools as Amherst, Trinity, and Carleton. McGavack felt that the math department's biggest need
at the present is a large enough staff to give “more individual attention to outstanding students, especially those who plan
to go on to graduate school.”

Professor T. A. Williams of the French department said he was “not satisfied at all with the current language curriculum
at Davidson.” He felt that “literature courses should be integrated into a linguistics.”

Dr. Earl McCormac had several suggestions for the Humanities program. He recommended an independent study program for outstanding students beginning
in the freshman year, as well as a program of interdepartmental courses similar to the humanities setup.

NOT SHOWING STRENGTH

Staff Sgt. Rowan Archer, Jr., said, “We're not trying to show our strength,” as he jabbed three fingers through two
inches of hardwood board at the Special Forces demonstration of hand-to-hand combat in Tuesday’s drill. B Company, Third Special Forces,
Fort Bragg, showed the assembled cadets how to “eliminate” an enemy, using only their bare hands with full efficiency and
karate.
