Che BDavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Quiet Visitor

Monday’s constitutional referendum may come and go before a number of students are aware of what has actually happened. A number of students have expressed ignorance over the very existence of the referendum while others are confused about what the coming vote will entail. The lack of the usual amount of student agitation and fanfare which has traditionally preceded constitutional referendums can probably be explained by the somewhat unexciting nature of the changes proposed.

The changes are being undertaken primarily as a result of Student Council and Honor Court study, not as a direct outgrowth of student unrest. But despite the dry nature of the amendments, both the section dealing with the new student regulations court and the amendments to the Student Body Regulations have merit and should be approved.

The main justification for the court will be its freeing the Honor Court from the responsibility of dealing with student conduct and allowing it to concentrate its efforts on improvements to the Honor System. It is appropriate that a body entrusted with overseeing the honor of the entire student body should not have to deal with such trivial matters as too much noise in the dorms. The new court, which will try only cases of violations of Student Body Regulations, while not regularly elected as a court, will pose little danger of wielding any despotic powers, or developing into a local adaptation of the Gestapo. The court will consist entirely of class officers who as elected officials will maintain a responsiveness to student feeling.

We would likewise urge deletion of the regulations dealing with gambling and hazing. Both were installed under circumstances substantially different from today and have little contemporary relevance. Any incidents of hazing ordinarily occur in connection with the fraternity system and enforcement should logically be left with the Interfraternity Council. The IFC, which would naturally be much closer to the situation, has agreed to undertake enforcement of any hazing infractions.

Likewise, the rule prohibiting gambling was passed under a moral code differing considerably from today’s. Today, gambling by itself is rarely considered immoral. Should the vote decide in favor of keeping the rule, the student body will, in effect, be asserting its willingness not only to abide by the rule, but also to enforce it. The recent “brown-bagging” controversy has shown that a law which exists but is not respected or enforced is worse than no law and actually becomes a farce.

Short-Term Deal

A story by the Associated Press this week told of a Radcliffe student advertising in the Harvard Crimson for a Harvard man who would be willing to marry the Cliffe. But the enterprising female was not an ordinary husband-hunting co-ed, anxious for security for the rest of her life. The female only wanted a husband for a year, in order to escape Radcliffe dormitory life. According to the college’s rules, only married students can live off campus, so she offered, through her ad, to share expenses with and to cook for the lucky Harvard boy, and incidentally, she would marry him for a year.

“I only want a roommate, not a husband,” she is reported to have said, “but he’s got to marry me to satisfy Radcliffe.”

“I just want to live off campus and earn my degree in history,” she commented, “because it's quieter there, and I can get more work done.”

Few here would disagree with her points on the advantages of off-campus housing. The impersonality of such sterile surroundings as Belk Dorm add little to the college experience, for the atmosphere is anything but conducive either to good study habits or to getting to know one’s 80-odd hallmates better.

But we find it hard to imagine a parallel situation occurring here; sheer economics would make one stop and think twice before taking the step to escape dormitory life. Few can afford to rent an off-campus apartment, except when necessary, as is the case for married students. The college’s position to single students is a reasonable one, given the circumstances. It is necessary for the dorms to be utilized in order to realize the highest gain from them. Even though single students may find off-campus life more desirable, the college has carried out its obligation of providing adequate housing.

But the college likewise has a responsibility to married students, a responsibility which has been largely neglected. So far, married students have had to depend almost exclusively on renting from private owners in the area. With the dearth of high-quality apartments easily accessible to the campus, rental prices have been blown out of proportion to their worth. One cannot hold the property owners responsible for charging what the traffic will bear; such are the ways of the free market.

But at the same time, there is no need for the situation to remain unchanged. The college owes its married students attractive, reasonably priced housing. The present extent of college property used for this purpose consists of four houses in Jackson Heights, just off campus. The “Cardboard Village” houses are inadequate, both in number and in quality. The best thing that can be said for them is that the rent is reasonable. We urge the college to take the steps necessary to acquire property which it can rent to married students, so that these students can come in from the doghouse.

Welcome, Fred

We welcome back to campus Fred Smoot for what has almost become his annual visit. His stellar performances in two preceding Spring Frolics have made him a favorite with the Davidson student body, and his week-long stay promises to endear him even more to the community.

Just as welcome as Mr. Smoot’s visit is the pioneering spirit shown by the new Union Board in kicking off a new year of programs. The night club motif, if given the support of the student body and community, could well become an integral part of the Union program and provide at least part of the solution to the question of what to do for on-campus entertainment.

The Hungry D Restaurant will next week be belying its short life of a few months with a professionalism of good food and top-notch entertainment. We urge student support to accompany the enthusiasm shown by Union President Peter Parrott and hope that this new venture will portend more such activities for next year.

Associate Editors ........JOHN BAILEY ARCH McCALLUM PAUL MARION

Managing Editors _.._..... SAM BOYTE BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors CHARLES McEWEN KERN PARKER ROBBIE HOOKER LINDSAY DAVIS RICK MILDNER

News Editor .... Feature Editor . Copy Editor Sports Editor WW __..TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editor... YATES FAISON

Photographers ..-- BILL OLSON GEORGE PURVIS

Cartoonists __.. sewereeseesttsteeeee OU HILL BOB HOLLADAY JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager .. MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager ........JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Dick Spencer, Toby Watt, John Allen, Cliff Duke, Bob Reid, Geoff Birkhead, Don Sewell, Joel Keyes, Jim Morrow, Charles Elliott, Bill Seigler, John Williams, Billy Farr, Joe Saunders, Cameron Ferguson, Mike May, Ben Lahey, Britt Snider, Bill Graham, Jim Cooley, Ed Embree, Al Varner, Kent Gladstone, Heyward Whetsell; Randy Bridges.

Dear Editor:

As one who took part in the hastily-organized (therefore less effective than it could have been) anti-ROTC demonstration during federal inspection, I must voice my astonishment at Sam Johnson’s now-you-see-me now-you-don't letter in the last issue of this paper. No one invited Mr. Johnson up to the parapets at Duke, and no one extolled him to give vent to continuous ‘Sieg Heil!’ cries once he was there. We were in fact carrying on a time-honored if somewhat moribund tradition at Davidson—the tradition of the Peon Army, a para-military organization designed to “make it hot” for the ROTC department whenever a good chance comes along.

ABHORRENT SPECTACLE

We believe that the spectacle of several hundred supposedly intelligent young men being turned into machines to serve the state is morally abhorrent, that the traditional professional soldier is a dangerous anachronism in a world on the verge of revolution such as this planet has never seen before, and that compulsory ROTC is wrong for any one of several dozen reasons.

The demonstration was crude - we only had 30 minutes to work something up. In all probability we would not have been so vociferous if it had not been for a most remarkable statement made by an officer (who shall remain loudly anonymous here) who appealed to us “as Davidson gentlemen” to shut up, adding that he would come up to the terrace and throw us all off bodily if he could. Interesting logic, that: What this “gentleman and officer” was literally saying was that he wanted to use violence on us, but since this was not possible he'd try, grudgingly, to reason with us. No better illustration of the attitudes instilled by the Army can be given.

Spring Fever

By JOHN HILL

In Eternal Battle Of The Sexes

For two days the Davidson man was involved in an impossible dilemma, that of trying to please a member of the opposite sex for an entire weekend. Now Spring Frolics is over, and we can spend the next week or so trying to figure, without success, just what went wrong so it won’t happen concert weekend, even though we know that if it doesn't, something else will. That's just a fact of life any time you have to bring females into the picture.

Don't get me wrong. We wouldn't have our weekends without the girls. They hadn’t changed, but what could you expect? After all, they are females. They are just about the most complex members of the human race. To try to explain them is like trying to get one of their sex to understand you. Face it, sad as it may be, the opposite sex just doesn't think ... at least, not like we do.

The life we lead here at Davidson is truly remarkable. Ask any female, and she will tell you that she doesn’t know how we can get along without her, and the other members of her sex, as constant companions, even in the classroom. (Think how many good jokes this would cut out of professors’ lectures: it’s just not reasonable.) The very fact that we are only able to see any quantity of females for two out of seven days in a week makes our job doubly hard. It is difficult enough to meet her demands when you are really experienced, but we have no chance of comprehending her impossible ideas and desires when we see so little of her.

The female was made for the male, not vice versa. She is the one that should be able to do the understanding. She willingly should meet the male more than half-way, but co-eds just don’t seem to know this. They play with men’s destinies without even realizing it and the slightest glance can ‘make’ or ‘break’ your relationship. They don't seem to realize what authority they wield, whether consciously or not.

It really seems that the male-female relationship is governed by the law of diminishing returns. The harder the male tries to please his girl the more she demands of him. Whether she will admit it or not, the co-ed holds all the cards. The boy would bend over backward to do exactly as his date expects. The majority of the female sex is completely without principle! Its demands are never too great from itsown point of view, but when viewed in the clear perspective of the male rationale, they generally appear clearly worse. When this has been explained to her, she resorts to her two favorite weapons to get her way. She will cry, or she won't speak again for the rest of the night. The latter weapon is beginning to lose its effectiveness in this day of liberal-minded intellectuals. But against the former, there is no defense. Impossible. Why is the female so hard to understand? There is only one answer: she cannot think like a male. She is emotionally motivated, and the slightest miscue (if she decides it is important enough to her) will almost entirely demolish an otherwise smoothly running relationship. If only she could reason through things from the male point of view, then we might receive some really useful information during a guided tour of the White House (like the location of tourist restrooms for future visiting reference). Men, are we weakening? Let us not forget the great insights of such predecessors of our sex who knew the capabilities of woman and so left the bearing of children to her alone. Can we meet the new and formidable challenge of the opposite sex? Is this a war which can be won? Must the “Battle of the Sexes” be an eternal conflict? It is a war in which we have slowly given way out of expediency. But we must put our foot down somewhere. If we don’t hurry and put a stop to things, the female sex will have “over-accomplished” its goal of subjugation of the male sex. She will find that she has become “top dog,” and from this point, there is no place to go but down, as we men well know. The female must understand that what we strive to do arises only out of a concern for her welfare. We must convince her of this, or we will find more trouble than we already think we have. May Heaven help her if she would trade places with the present bulwark of society. To have her husband crying on her shoulder because the dishwasher overflowed and blew a fuse just as something important was about to happen on “The Secret Storm” is surely not a very promising picture. Does your date realize the amount you spend on her? If she wants more equality and “understanding,” try some divvying of expenses. It is just like a woman not to rethink her position and see that it is the most favorable one conceivable; instead, she must push for what she hasn't got to see what it would be like. (She would have one very large factor going for her if she reigned supreme; she might know how to deal with women.) They don’t really know how well off they are.

A Review By WINIFRED P. MINTER
Associate Professor of Political Science

James MacGregor Burns’ Deadlock of Democracy deals with the state of political parties in America and comes to the conclusion that they are not fulfilling the fundamental role that they must play in order to provide viable democracy. This is because of the conditions and the manner in which they were conceived and their inability to adjust appropriately to modern demands. The U.S. Constitution was constructed during an age of fundamental distrust and suspicion of the power of government. In the late 18th century atmosphere of the Philadelphia Convention, the prevailing sentiment appears to have been a preoccupation with a constitutional structure which would, through an elaborate system of checks and balances, provide countervailing powers which would resist the development of monolithic or concentrated political strength. This was to be accomplished through the separation of powers and federalism. Political power could then be fragmented, and no group, class, or interest could easily predominate. Political parties in the modern sense were unknown, and the precepts of our present-day democracy had not yet been formulated. Equality before the law was an accepted principle, but political equality was associated with radicalism and irresponsibility. Control of the government by the masses would be as suggestive of political tyranny as would be control by the privileged nobility. The solution was sought in seeking a system which would promote a balancing of interests, compromising differences, and moderation in the political results. This system has remained basically unchanged even though parties have developed and become the essential linkage between society at large and the government. As democracy grew in America and spread its influences, broadly based grassroots parties were inevitable concomitants. For democratic government cannot exist without party systems to translate the pressures applied by the varied components that constitute the electorate into public policy. A theoretical democratic model for a party would assign it the following functions: unification of the organs of government, designation and support of candidates for public office, crystallization of public opinion, assumption of responsibility for legislation and for administration, education of the voter, criticism of the party in power, and other similar responsibilities. Professor Burns states that our present parties cannot perform these functions so necessary for democratic government to function properly. He provides an interesting account of the historical growth of our party systems, demonstrating how our institutional and constitutional mechanisms have, through their decentralized and fragmented character, made it impossible to achieve optimum results in terms of desirable decision-making. There are efforts at overcoming the difficulties which result in what he calls the “Presidential party” which seeks to organize power around the Presidency and provide thus a nucleus for nationally and centrally oriented programs. The opposing tendency is embodied in the “Congressional Party,” resulting from the fact that parties are based in the states and are thus decentralized in character. Institutional rivalry between the Congress and the Presidency promotes the opportunity for this latter concept of party organization to perpetuate itself. The result of these two types of parties causes the deadlock of democracy. Mr. Burns has a number of suggestions designed to break the deadlock and to provide parties the opportunity to meet more nearly the theoretical requirements of a party in a democracy. He advocates such reforms as control of national elections by the national government, party organization at the grassroots level based less on committee and more on party clubs, the separation of national candidates from local candidates on state ballots, modifying the rules of Congress so as to end the possibilities of minority control through seniority and filibustering, and better financing of parties so as to broaden the selection of nominees and to result in less chance for particularistic groups to control. One detects a bias, perhaps, for the British type of party system with its interest in more unified, centrally directed, and simplified organization. But he clearly indicates that tinkering and innovating are not enough. Without the proper leadership, no party system will give the desired results. The Deadlock of Democracy is a very stimulating book and raises relevant and important questions which no interested and serious student of democratic government can miss considering.

BAILEY Davidsonian Associate Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 20036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

CONFUSED FRESHMAN

I would suggest that Mr. Johnson's letter reflects little more than a confused freshman. If he is going to continue to hold a liberal, pacifist posture in his future life, he had damn well better learn to develop a sense of moral courage commensurate with that position. As for losing his “friends” who might have been upset by seeing a Nazi emblem (sewed into the center of a Confederate flag—we thought the irony was rather nice, but I guess there are few things harder to sell to conventional minds than irony)... all I can say is that anyone in the ROTC ranks stupid enough to see the demonstration as pro-Nazi couldn’t be worth the attention of an intelligent man. Such “friends” are well lost. If Mr. Johnson wishes to continue as a liberal individual, he should learn that one of the ground rules for survival is never to underestimate the possible consequences of an act before he undertakes to perform it. Foresee them, then—if the cause be worth your commitment—accept them. Otherwise, forget it altogether.

EMBLEMS FITTING

And yet, I cannot but think that the appearance of Nazi emblems was rather fitting. Basically, there is no difference between the gung-ho, win-or-die attitudes of some of the advanced ROTC boys and the attitudes of the young storm troopers who used to stand at attention in a drill field and set off live practice grenades on top of their helmets to prove their manhood. Both kinds of personalities revel in the glorification of violence and the virtues of mindless discipline. Perhaps the only qualitative difference is that the Nazi Wehrmacht was usually more efficient. Let this letter put on record the fact that the rest of us who demonstrated that Tuesday do not share Sam Johnson's fears of martyrdom. And also let me register a strong complaint at the yellow journalism of THE DAVIDSONIAN's headline—“Nazi incident.” My God... you'd think we had Lincoln Rockwell out there addressing a rally. Kindly try to be at least remotely accurate about things, will you?

W. R. TROTTER
Davidson College

Dial, Tarleton. Defend Johnson

Dear Editor:

Sam Johnson's letter to the editor (THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15) was a forced apology. Instead of writing in response to honest discussion of the demonstration at drill, April 12, 1966, he drafted his letter, calling the demonstration a mistake, as the result of anonymous personal attacks upon him. We would like to ask who should be making apologies, Sam Johnson or his classmates (Would you believe—freshmen?) who placed unsigned posters outside his room as a reaction against his part in the demonstration?

SATIRE

The demonstration, it seems to us, could have been easily seen as an excellent satire on militarism, open to the possibility of various interpretations—from a plea for pacifism to an outcry against ROTC regimentation. All that was actually apparent in the demonstration itself was a caricature of the military, exaggerated to its extreme—fascism. Should one interpret the demonstration as un-American (these charges have been leveled), he would only display his reverence for the State as an institution rather than the ideas for which it stands, viz. freedom of speech. The persons who attempt secretly to silence those with whom they disagree are promoting the un-American ideas for which they criticize Johnson (Sam). In the last analysis, they themselves have become fascists.

CONVICTIONS

Need anyone apologize for expressing convictions on national issues? We are saying that one should not only keep his convictions but also express them without fear of personal attack. Sam does not owe the student body an apology for freely expressing his convictions. No, the persons who drove Sam to feel that such an act was necessary should themselves apologize.

KEN TARLETON
JOSEPH F. DIAL
Davidson College