**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1956

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Man's World?

The Davidson student’s recurring complaint over the lack of coeducational classmates is not without certain advantages. We take comfort in knowing that we will not be faced with the predicament confronting staff members of the Harvard Crimson. The recent appointment of Miss Linda McVeigh, 18-year-old Radcliffe junior, as managing editor of the Crimson strikes fear into the hearts of every male journalist who sees the threat of female invasion into a previously all-male domain.

At least one colleague, John Rothchild, managing editor of the Yale Daily News, has become sufficiently aroused to try to regain what is left of the male self-respect. “I have become very upset at the female assault on the male world and want to do something about it,” said Rothchild in challenging Miss McVeigh to a game of jacks, which he subsequently won. But Rothchild found his victory a hollow one, commenting in a post-match press conference: “Men, we are lost. I won the jacks match, but my truthful admission is that I lost the war.”

Miss McVeigh’s reported rejoinder showed a decided want of deference for the male journalist’s superiority at athletics: “He may have beat me at jacks, but I saw him put together a paper and I know I can do a better job at that.” In the face of such presumption, we count it a blessing that the present host of female companionship on campus is only temporary and that the male sanctity on THE DAVIDSONIAN remains intact, for the time being at least.

The American Idea Of Justice

The Voting Rights Act of 1965, the constitutionality of which has recently been argued before the Supreme Court, purports to aim at preventing racial discrimination in voter registration. We endorse this aim. Unfortunately, however, we find little to applaud in the new law, which, claims Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, “operates fairly and reasonably” to achieve elimination of voting discrimination.

The absurdity of the use of the terms “fair” and “reasonable” in describing the Act should be obvious to even Mr. Katzenbach himself. How “fair” is the paradoxical situation in which a bill which has a purpose of preventing discrimination attempts to achieve this purpose with a law in which enforcement results only in those states in which less than 50 percent of the voting age population voted in the 1964 elections? This excludes 15 northern states with literacy tests, such as New York, where only a small percentage of Harlem’s adult population has qualified for and exercised the privilege of voting. The law is also enforced in those states in which literacy tests exist, excluding LBJ’s Texas, where only 44 percent of the voting age population voted in 1964.

Are literacy tests considered unconstitutional or necessarily discriminatory? Obviously not, because the law enables 15 states to maintain a literate electorate. Are states guilty of discrimination if less than 50 percent of their adults vote in elections? If so, then how does one explain states such as Texas, where less than 50 percent vote but no discrimination exists, according to the federal formula? Only six states, all in the South and all voting against LBJ in 1964, fall into both categories and only in these six states has the federal government been empowered to abolish the right of the people of these states to require a literate electorate.

Thus an absurd situation arises in which a moron could be granted by federal authorities the right to vote in Alabama, but if he moved to New York, that state would deny him the privilege of voting. This irony, noted The Wall Street Journal last year, “is not funny. Beneath the paradox lies a serious question. Is it moral that national laws should apply one rule to one State and another to another, requiring that the people of one State abolish qualifications for voters while the people of another State may uphold their standards?”

The paradoxes of the bill reach the absurd where the Act provides that these six states are guilty of discrimination unless they can prove themselves innocent, directly contradicting the American idea of justice, by which a person is innocent until proven guilty. Further, the states involved have to prove that no discrimination against any individual has existed in the last ten years, an impossibility even in New York City, Chicago, or Johnson City, Tex.

To argue against the law as unconstitutional is somewhat meaningless, although the unconstitutionality of the Act is probably evident even to Mr. Katzenbach. Although only a most perverted view of the Constitution could see the Voting Rights Act as within its limitations, the question is neither here nor there since for the purposes of Mr. Katzenbach, Mr. Warren, and other eminent liberals, the Constitution is dead.

The idea behind the law is expressed by Justice Hugo Black, who noted, “It’s politically known to everybody in the country that these tests have been used to deny people their right to vote.” This no reasonable person denies. But the same logic behind this idea—the idea that abuse of a principle condemns the whole principle—could be used to abolish police forces on the grounds the powers held by policemen are sometimes abused.

The equal rights fight could be pursued and the Fifteenth Amendment (preventing denial of suffrage because of race) enforced with a law requiring every citizen to renew his registration and providing for federal inspection to ensure that every individual is given equal opportunity to register, regardless of race and subject to the same impartial literacy requirement.

We have no doubt that the Supreme Court will do what is politically popular and assert that the ends justify the means. We lament, however, the influence which civil rights groups have achieved with their bombastic statements appealing to irrational emotion. We also lament the passing of the idea that popular government needs no Constitutional limitations—which limit a majority of the nation from being just as discriminatory against a national minority as a white majority in Alabama is discriminatory against a black minority.

We agree that federal action is needed in a number of cases to remedy racial discrimination in voting registration, and we submit that the proposal presented above would be an effective remedy. But if the Voting Rights Bill of 1965 is an example of Mr. Katzenbach’s idea of “fairness” and “reason,” then we hope he never will sit in judgment of us.

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK

News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Assistant Copy Editors
Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Photographers
BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Contributors this week: Bruce Weihe, Toby Watt, Billy Farr, Ron Snow, Mike Bates, Bill Graham, Kern Parker, Mike Powell, Jim Cooley, Kent Gladstone, Carter Fussell, Bill Seigler, Bob Travers, Price Camerson, Robbie Hooker, Allen Webb, K. D. Weeks, Jim Morrow, Cliff Duke, Doug Crisp, Yates Faison, Tommy Cox, Johnny Wessell, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Former Soldier Calls Viet Nam War ‘A Lie’

A former American soldier who was a member of the Special Forces in Viet Nam, the first enlisted man to be nominated for the Legion of Merit, alleges our men are dying for ‘a lie’ in an article in the February issue of Ramparts magazine. Master Sergeant Donald Duncan, who turned down a commission and captaincy and left the army last September after 10 years of service, tells in an article, “The Whole Thing Was A Lie,” of his evolution from “militant anti-communist” to the discovery that “it’s not democracy we brought to Viet Nam — it's anti-communism.”

“It has taken a long time and a mountain of evidence but I had finally found some truths," Duncan writes. “The world is not just good guys and bad guys. Anti-communism is a lousy substitute for democracy. I know now that there are many types of communism but there are none that appeal to me," he asserts. “In the long run, I don't think Viet Nam will be better off under Ho’s brand of communism. But it’s not for me or my government to decide. That decision is for the Vietnamese.”

Some highlights of Duncan's article include:

American Special Forces are taught techniques of torture. “I was later to witness first hand the practice of turning prisoners over to ARVN (Army of the Republic of Vietnam) for ‘interrogation’ and the atrocities which ensued," Duncan writes.

Special Operations Group, composed of CIA, Air Force, Navy, Army and Special Forces personnel, is operating inside of North Viet Nam. “The real question was, whether communism is spreading in spite of our involvement or because of it,” he states.

Racial discrimination was rampant in the Special Forces, from the former Latvian who was not interested in Viet Nam (“I wouldn't blend. There are not many blue-eyed gooks”), to the captain who instructed Duncan: “Don't send me any niggers. Be careful, however, not to give the impression that we are prejudiced in Special Forces ... In the larger Viet Nam town, ‘Negroes do not go into white bars except at the risk of being ejected.”

Resentment of Americans by South Vietnamese “runs all the way from stiff politeness to obvious hatred.” Vietnamese soldiers were sent into Laos on a secret mission, without the Americans who had trained them and trained with them, because “it was an election year and it would cause great embarrassment if Americans were captured in Laos.” Says Duncan, “This was the one thing, if I had to single one out, that made me really start questioning our role in Viet Nam.”Laos, from which six out of 40 men returned, confirmed that the Viet Cong were getting the bulk of their weapons from ARVN and by sea. It was also one more piece of evidence that the Viet Cong were primarily South Vietnamese, not imported troops from the North. One more thing was added to my growing list of doubts of the ‘official’ stories.

“When teaching Special Forces how to set up guerrilla warfare in an enemy country, killing unpopular officials is pointed out as one method of gaining friends among the populace. It is recommended that special assassination teams be set up for this purpose. I know of a couple of cases where it was suggested by Special Forces officers that Viet Cong prisoners be killed,” Duncan asserts.

“Communist or not, the vast majority of the people were pro-Viet Cong and anti-Saigon. I had to accept also that the position, ‘We are in Viet Nam because we are in sympathy with the aspirations and desires of the Vietnamese people,’ was a lie,” he stated.

While we view the Vietnamese on our side as “cowardly” and unable to accept discipline, our officers describe the Viet Cong as “dedicated,” “tough,” “disciplined,” “well-trained” and “brave,” he claims. The Vietnamese on our side fight well in defense of themselves and their teams, but never out of the feeling that they “are fighting for democracy ... freedom ... the people ...” according to the writer. South Vietnamese troops and commanders “know that if they don’t bother the Viet Cong they will be safe from Viet Cong attacks.”

In conclusion, the much-decorated Duncan says that he has no criticism of young American anti-war demonstrators: “On the contrary, I am relieved. I think they should be commended ... They are opposed to people, our own and others, dying for a lie, thereby corrupting the very word democracy.”

POWERFUL ALLEGORY
Film Friends To Project ‘Woman In The Dunes’
By WILLIAM TROTTER

The highlight of this semester's Film Friends’ program, Woman In the Dunes, will be shown in the Morrison Room Monday. This troublingly beautiful film is the weird tale of a Japanese scientist who finds himself lost in a remote marshy coastal region. He asks some fishermen for lodging for the night and is directed to the home of a peasant woman, a home which lies at the foot of a vast pit walled off from the world by sheer cliffs of sand. In the morning, the rope ladder by which he reached the bottom of the pit has been pulled up; he is trapped. He and the woman must endlessly clear away the sand, bucket by bucket; in return for their labor, the villagers lower food to them. It is soon apparent that the man and the woman are Everyman and Everywoman, and the hell hole in which they are trapped is life itself.

Allegory of this nature is unfashionable these days—one can pretend to be profound with symbolism much more easily; symbols, if obscure enough, can claim respect for the most meaningless babble. That the film is an allegory of terrific impact is perhaps its most outstanding feature. As Time magazine said, “the metaphor is grand, the allegory clothes the powerful narrative as patterns clothe a python—a luminous and violent existential thriller.” Rarely, if ever, has a film portrayed so tangibly the very texture of its meaning—the camera conveys the gritty terror of the endless sands, the subtlest tones and textures of skin, sand, wind, and driftwood. The film is filled with suspense and violent shifts of action, and goes perhaps as far as modern cinema can presently go in depicting the intimacies of love and hate. Woman in the Dunes is a daring, visually stunning, and spiritually vibrant film which will, most critics agree, come to be regarded as a major classic of the art.

Coming later in the semester will be The Brig, by Jonas Mekas—a nerve-shattering essay on brutality and sadism in a Marine Corps jail which has been hailed as one of the most powerful films of the decade. It is hoped that it will be possible to have Mr. Mekas himself on campus this semester, to deliver a series of discussions and lectures on modern film. It is also hoped that it will be possible to show a film by the man many regard as the greatest living French writer, after Sartre, Jean Genet. The classic Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari, a study of horror and madness and one of the most legendary films of all time, will be shown in April. Dog Star Man, a film which has been called “one of the greatest works of American art,” will be featured in March. Each feature-length film will be accompanied by short subjects, ranging from “La Chien Andalou”—a surrealist fantasy by Salvador Dali—to “World in Remembrance,” a poetic account of the funeral rites of Winston Churchill. Film Friends’ program for this semester will be the most varied and interesting yet.

by Holladay

‘UNRESTRICTED CONTACT’ CLAUSE
Marion Shows Weakness Of Committee Suggestions

Dear Editor:

The Social Life Evaluation Committee suggested in its recent report that contact between freshmen and upperclassmen be unrestricted from Monday through Friday, except after 7:30 pm. Although the I. F. C. would be free to regulate weekend contact, the Committee's proposal leaves open the possibility of many expensive and time-consuming rush activities. For example, freshmen could be invited to eat meals and spend the afternoons at the fraternity houses. Freshmen could be invited to off-campus fraternity social functions any weekday or night, including Friday. Fraternity men could invite freshmen to double date or go on road trips. Although few fraternities would want to participate in these rush activities, all would be forced into them after one fraternity started. Upperclassmen would have to spend half of their year in active informal rushing.

In order, therefore, to better cope with these problems, I would propose the following:
(1) The I. F. C. will be free to regulate contact between freshmen and upperclassmen on the weekend and Friday night.
(2) Freshmen will not be allowed to eat meals in fraternity houses from Monday through Friday during the first semester of 1966-67.

These minimum requirements are necessary to prevent rush from becoming too expensive, time-consuming, and a nuisance to upperclassmen and freshmen alike.

Paul Marion
Davidson College

(Editor’s Note: Paul Marion will present these proposals to the Social Life Evaluation Committee.)

CLOSE-
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A trip to the P. O. is rarely fruitless for a Wildcat basketball player. Fan mail comes in steadily to them all season. Most letters are picture or autograph requests, although every now and then a child’s or teenage girl’s letter takes a different tact.

“DEAR MR. SNYDER”

The typical letter received by senior Dick Snyder reads like this:

Dear Mr. Snyder,
I am a great admirer of yours. I would be deeply grateful if you would send me a picture of yourself. I hope you have a good season; the same goes for the whole Davidson team.
Your admirer,
Scott B.

Another letter, a bit more personal:

Dear Mr. Snyder,
I am nine years old and I have watched you play basketball for two years and I think you are a good athlete. I would appreciate it if you would give me your autograph. Say hello to Rodney (Knowles) for me please. If you can catch him, I would appreciate it if I could get his autograph too.
Sincerely,
Steven

From a teenage girl came this one to the “Davidson Athletic Board.”

Dear Sirs:
I'm a great fan of your Davidson Wildcat basketball team. I’ve been a fan ever since I was old enough to understand basketball. And I just have to tell you that Dick Snyder is my “fella.” I think the Wildcats will go all the way this year. I know they will win the Southern Conference Championship, I just know they will. Could you send me a picture of Dick Snyder by himself and autographed? I was at Davidson the day of the free basketball clinic and it just broke my heart that I wasn’t the lucky girl who got the basketball and kiss from Dick Snyder. But my Mother and Father said that if it had been me they would have had to bury me. I hope you are not annoyed by me writing.
Yours truly,
Shelia
P. S. Good luck, Wildcats.

From Statesville came this one:

Dear Dick,
I know you don’t know me, but I have heard so much about you since last year that I feel like you are one of my personal friends. You see, my sister Dianne is a great fan of yours—perhaps your greatest. Her girlfriends each have their own special Wildcat that they yell for. Of course, you're Dianne’s. Last year we had the pleasure of meeting Bobby Lane and Barry St. Clair at a church here. Dianne almost went into a trance. You may remember a flashbulb going off in your face as you returned from the dressing room at half in the Dartmouth game. If you do, I'm responsible. If you could find the time to write Dianne a short note, I know she would treasure it for her days. Her room is papered with Davidson athletic pictures. Best of luck in the games to come.
A fan’s sister,
Carolyn

Printed in inch-high letters was this missive:

Dear Mr. Snyder,
You are my favorite basketball player. My sister and I were playing. I was you and my sister was your girlfriend.
Love,
Betsy, I am seven.

Not only letters, but gifts of all sorts arrive. Birthday cakes, cookies, and lengthy good luck scrolls bearing hundreds of names are not uncommon gifts. Unusual autograph requests sometimes confront the players, such as last summer when a fan at a basketball banquet asked several Wildcats to autograph her hand. The attention is fun, but what is most frustrating to the players is the fickleness of the fans. When you are winning, and when you have played a good game, all is well, but when you lose, the “glamor,” the “friends” suddenly disappear. All fans are not deserters, however, as is evidenced by the letter a sophomore Wildcat received: Here you win some, you lose some, and sometimes you don’t even get to play at all. So take heart.