OPPOSING PHILOSOPHIES GIVEN ON ‘MISCELLANY’ (See Page Four) VOL. LV : Se TOMORROW'S CONCERT STAR a ¥ Four Juniors | ) 4 er Dautdsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1966 Yearly Election Ordeal Will Begin On Monday Four juniors have filed for the position of student body president, to head up the long list of candidates the next week. The four presidential candidates are John Fagg, Chuck Matthews, Johnny Gresham, and Paul Marion. Fagg, a junior from Winston-Salem with a double major in Jazz pianist Peter Nero will share the limelight, along with the history and pre-med, is a member Wildcats’ basketball exploits, of this concert weekend. He will appear tomorrow afternoon at 3 p.m. for a concert in Chambers Auditorium. S. C. Senator To Speak In Tuesday Assembly 4 -)ber of Phi track teams. Fagg, presently serving on the Social Council and Student Council, is a member of Delta Theta and works on the Union Board. He is also in the D-Club and served on the Freshman Council. His grade point average is 1.8. Matthews, also from Winston-Salem, is a political science major with a 2.1 standing. He is presently studying at the American Strom Thurmond, United States Senator from South Carolina, will be the guest speaker in chapel on Tuesday, on a visit sponsored by the Young Republicans Club in cooperation with the college. Thurmond, an attorney and farmer from Aiken, S. C., is the only U. S. Senator to have ever been elected on a write-in ballot. The victory was in a special election in 1954 when he ran as an independent. ices and Commerce Committees, ican University on the Washington Semester program. Thurmond has been called one of the leading Senate experts on military affairs. Matthews served as second vice president of the Student Thurmond volunteered for service in World War II on the Council and was president of the day war was declared against Sophomore Class. His activities Germany. He served with Head- on the Student Council include quarters First Army from 1942 NSA-coordinator. He is also a to 1946 in both the European member of Beta Theta Pi and and Pacific theatres and partici- the Young Democrats Club. pated in the Normandy invasion Marion, a history major from with the 82nd Airborne Divi- Charlotte, is president of the sion. He was awarded five battle Junior Class. Active on the ath- stars and 16 decorations, medals filing for elections, which begin Monday and continue into lobby of Chambers and at the Post Office. Polls will open first period next Monday and close for lunch at 1. They will reopen at 1:30 and remain open until 3 except on Tuesday when they will stay open until 4. Elections Chairman Lee Fanning encouraged everyone to vote. ‘‘We would really like to have a high turnout,” he told THE DAVIDSONIAN. Fanning announced that the presidential forum that had originally been scheduled for 7:30 Monday night has been changed to 7. The presidential speeches for Monday's assembly will be limited to six minutes. ABSENTEE BALLOTS Anyone needing an absentee ballot must see Fanning or Bill Logan. Other candidates filing for student body office were: Vice presidents: Tom Earnhardt, Julian Prosser, Ben Cannon, Lowell Bryan, John Allen, Frank Powell, and Bill Watson. Secretary-treasurer: ner, Bobby Vagt. Reavis, Ronny Brown, Anderson and Bayard Miller. Al Var- pee PAUL MARION a Wd CHUCK MATTHEWS Will Compete For Student Body President JOHNNY GRESHAM > NUMBER TWENTY-TWO JOHN race Light Turnout Votes No On Continued NSA Ties Less than half the student body NSA was largely a conservative the key issue, turned out yesterday to vote movement aroused by NSA's importantly, the basic issue was results, saying. ‘More Concerning the referendum re- student Joe Beard, a ‘no’ to further affiliation with liberal political statements. How- over NSA's habit of claiming strong opponent of NSA, was the National Student Association. The vote was 236-205. ever, local chairman Sands denied that this had been The Student Council debated Council Recommends Mackey|the issue at its Monday meeting and decided to support con- in NSA. sion. He was awarded five battle stars and 16 decorations, medals Thurmond has been re-elected since then and is up for re-election this year. Formerly a Democrat, he switched to the Republican Party during the 1964 presidential campaign. A member of the Armed Services and Commerce Committees, idential Distinguished Unit Citation. As governor of South Carolina from 1947 to 1951, he served as chairman of the Southern Governors’ Conference in 1950. In 1948 under the States’ Rights Democratic ticket, he ran for President of the United States, carrying 4 states and receiving 39 electoral votes. A graduate of Clemson College, he holds LLD degrees from Bob Jones University, Presbyterian College and Clemson. In addition, he is a member of the Baptist Church, the American Bar Association and numerous defense, veteran, civic, fraternal and farm organizations. A coffee will follow chapel. The speaker will then have lunch at the SAE fraternity house; afterwards, there will be a brief discussion period. eg STROM THURMOND J i letic committee and academic scheduling committee. he is DAVIDSONIAN managing editor and on the Wildcat Handbook and awards including the Legion editorial staff. Marion, a Kappa of Merit, Purple Heart and Pres- Sigma, has been on the Dean's List and has a 2.3 average. Gresham, a junior from Jacksonville, Fla., with a double major in political science and psychology, is a Dana Scholar and has a 1.95 average. He has served two years on the Student Council, as a sophomore representative and first vice president. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade and the Philanthropic Literary Society. A hall counselor, Gresham is also Pi Kappa Alpha's representative on the IMAC and on the business staff of Quips and Cranks. VOTING CARDS Voting cards were handed out in chapel yesterday, and no one will be allowed to vote without a signed card. Anyone missing chapel can obtain a card by stopping by the Dean’s office and pledging that he did not receive one. Voting places will be in the tinued membership DEFENSE ATTORNEY Defense Attorney: Greg Haynes, Lou Hill, Charlie Vick, Charles Peed and Don Carroll. Freshman Advisor: Chris Hawk, Bill Rikard, Richard Graham, Gary DeVane and Geordie Meuller. HONOR COURT Honor Court candidates are freshmen: Sam Johnson, Mike Thornton, Peter Boggs, Ashton Trice, Roane Cross, Charles Skinner, Randy Phillips, Ernie Doe, Al Pearson, Cliff Duke, Tony Orsborn, Burkey Belser, Bob Reid, Tom Baker, Charles Cameron and Bill Williams. Sophomores: Mike Mooty, Cecil Clifton, Vance Hughes, Toby Watt, Buddy Newson, Walter Greene, Bo Perry, Frank Angus, Sam Hatcher, Billy Blackstone, Mike Carroll, David Jennings, Dick Lindsey, Sam Hines and Jim Robinson. Juniors: John Sartorius, Mac Otts, Ben Lahey, Jim Shackelford and Paul Curlee. CHEERLEADERS Cheerleading candidates are (Continued on Page Four) Tuesday night they distributed a sheet presenting pro-NSA arguments. The resolution pointed out al the NSA Carolina-Virginia Regional, of which Davidson is a member, has disassociated itself from any ‘political stands taken by the national convention. Furthermore, it said, the current cost of NSA at Davidson is $60 a year, for which the student body received numerous benefits. The STOP NSA committee, in a rebuttal distributed Wednesday, countered that in spite of Davidson's technical disassociation, national political resolutions of NSA appear to speak for Davidson. Also, the rebuttal said, travel and other costs push expenses well over $60. Additional arguments were made against the Student Council's list of benefits from NSA membership. Some students felt that STOP have.” Steve an authority which it did not highly pleased, saying, ‘It's a victory for the Student Body!’ New Regulations Court A proposal to create a Student Body Regulations Court having investigative and judicial control over Student Body Regulations was approved by the Student Council Monday night. Jim Stokes, Honor Court chairman, outlined the proposal which would alleviate the Honor Court's responsibility over Student Body Regulations. In effect it would result in aDivorce of responsibility, with the Honor Court's responsibility over honor violations and the Student Council having the power to try Student Body Regulations offenses and seeing that they are enforced. Stokes stated that ideally, the proposed Court would be composed of five members of the Student Council. The structure of a five-man Court would probably be a group of three class juniors.

Arch McCallum and Louis Lesesne will run for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Voting for the position will be Tuesday. McCallum, a former McConnell Scholar, is a member of Beta Theta Pi. Lesesne, from Dillon, S.C., has served as a sports writer and assistant sports editor on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff. He has a double major in history and is treasurer of Pi Kappa Alpha. Holder of the Huguenot Scholarship and a former Dana Scholar, he served as managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN this year. A member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, he is president of the Conservative Club. This will be his second summer working for a daily newspaper.

THE DAVIDSONIAN’S claim to be "The News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body" indicates its dual role: Not only should it inform, but it should also serve as an effective means of organizing, clarifying, and voicing student opinion. As a news medium, straight news stories should be supplemented by more analytic type stories, which go beyond the basic facts to the story behind the story. Interviews with student officers, faculty, and administration can point out areas which need study or change.

THE DAVIDSONIAN has been continually criticized for a lack of coverage of news whose significance transcends the campus. The problem is complicated by the impossibility of topping the coverage of wire services and weekly news magazines with staffs of hundreds to cover national and international news. The solution I propose is to present stories which go beyond the campus, yet have a local angle. Visiting speakers offer excellent opportunities for stories in which the speaker talks on significant issues—stories which go beyond the visitor's chapel talk to "in-depth" interviews.

No less important a function than reporting the news is commenting on the news, which involves not only the editorial column but the entire editorial page. The use of the editorial page as a forum for student opinion is an important one. There has never been, in recent years, a signed letter submitted to THE DAVIDSONIAN which failed to be printed. This tradition assures all students a means of voicing their views to the community.

The sweeping changes brought this year in the Student Body Regulations and Honor Court procedure are indications of the potential of student body action under the direction of creative and responsible leadership. Two requirements for such improvement to continue are, one, winning the respect and trust of the faculty by the student body’s demonstrating a responsible and mature attitude. Two, to direct changes, strong leadership is necessary. The editorial column can be an important part of this leadership if the editor supports a strong, reasoned program.

This year's DAVIDSONIAN has served well as the news voice and amply as the editorial voice of the Davidson student body. There are, however, certain changes and refinements in organization, format, and editorial philosophy that I shall make if elected editor:

—Although the paper has been increased in size in the last two years, there has been no corresponding reorganization of staff. I would add several new staff members, including a copy reader for the sports desk and additional help for the managing editors and news editor, and reorganize the Wednesday layout session so as to save much of the time that is wasted now.
—I would improve the caliber of the copy through regularly planned sessions of instruction in style and organization for writers.
—A schedule of coming events at Davidson will be printed in the paper. Also, I plan a calendar of noteworthy cultural, academic, and social events on other campuses and in surrounding cities.
—I hope to make the editorial page more of a clearinghouse for ideas and a forum of student opinion. This will be implemented through a more critical editorial philosophy with the aim of accurately delineating issues by decisive stands.
—Finally, I plan to broaden the scope of THE DAVIDSONIAN beyond the town and campus through news and feature stories on outside items of interest, contributions on the meaning of national events to the Davidson community, and coverage of sports events other than those in which Davidson participates.

ATTENTION: A limited number of reporting positions are available on the DAVIDSONIAN staff. Any interested writers should contact News Editor Sam Boyte in 374 Belk.

UN officers, the freshman adviser, and the vice president of the Senior Class. Bill Council, student council president, stated, "the proposal is nothing totally new, but results from a self-evaluation of Honor Court procedures and duties." The discussion over the proposed Court concluded with the Council declaring their support for the new system but leaving any definite changes for the incoming Council, which will take office next month.

Stokes also proposed two changes in methods of choosing Honor Court officers. First, Stokes advocated that the permanent chairman and recorder be elected by members of both the incumbent and newly-elected Court. According to Stokes, "this could make the Honor Court better coordinated, with the incoming members having a voice in who should be the chairman." Stokes’ proposal was adopted by the Council by an amendment to the by-laws. In addition, the Council adopted Stokes’ proposal to let newly-elected Court members run for Honor Court offices. Stokes felt that newly-elected members may sometimes be better to represent the feelings of the student body, which is important in presenting the honor system to the incoming freshmen. These changes necessitated an amendment of the By-Laws which formerly read: "The permanent chairman of the Honor Court shall be a senior on the Court and elected by members of the incumbent court. Those seniors on the incumbent court will indicate their willingness to run for the office by filing with the presiding chairman."

The Council also passed a statement voicing its endorsement of the National Student Association (NSA). The statement reads, "The Student Council strongly favors continued affiliation with NSA." The statement stresses that the NSA at Davidson is not affiliated with or influenced by political stands but retains the benefits of NSA affiliation at a low cost ($60 annually). The four benefits enumerated in the statement were a summer scholarship program similar to the one Davidson junior George Brown received last year to study in the Far East, low-cost travel advantages, dependable student insurance, and a good basis for interscholastic contacts. The day for the student body referendum determining future NSA affiliation was set for Thursday.

Lee Fanning announced that two extra Honor Court positions would be open in the upcoming elections, one in both the rising junior and senior classes. These changes were necessary because junior Kem Anderson has resigned from the Court and sophomore Bob Finlayson plans to participate in the Junior Year Abroad Program in Germany.

Plans for the upcoming Men’s Student Government Association meeting at Duke, to be held April 10-16, were announced by John Gresham. The purpose of the meetings will be primarily to provide an exchange of ideas and programs between students and student leaders from different schools. Other schools participating will be Princeton, Howard, Vanderbilt, and possibly Oberlin and Antioch. Any student wishing to participate in the program, which would necessitate cutting a week's classes, should go by Gresham's room.