VOL. LV 3S oh re Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,
N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966 JUNIORS IN GERMANY TELL OF EXPERIENCES (See Page Three) NUMBER FOURTEEN Student Body, Faculty
Overwhelmingly Back Viet Nam Policy By JOHNNY CLARK Davidsonian Associate Editor Davidson students and faculty overwhelmingly endorse current U. S.
involvement and policy in Viet Nam, according to Tuesday’s DAVIDSONIAN poll concerning the most publicized national issue of the day.
The survey, answered by approximately one-half of the student body and one-half of the faculty, showed a general agreement between
the two groups, with the faculty agreeing to only a slight degree less than the students with U. S. policy
concerning Viet Nam. A high degree of Davidson conformity with national opinion trends was also indicated by the poll results
in comparison with a recent college survey taken by Playboy.

RESULTS OF VIET NAM POLL
1. Do you favor the current involvement and policy of the United States in the Vietnamese conflict?
Students Yes: 79% No: 21%
Faculty Yes: 74% No: 26%

2. Do you favor the immediate withdrawal of all U.S. troops in South Vietnam?
Students Yes: 8% No: 92%
Faculty Yes: 5% No: 95%

3. Do you favor a full-scale effort by U. S. troops, including the invasion of North Vietnam, in order to
end the conflict as quickly as possible?
Students Yes: 42% No: 58%
Faculty Yes: 30% No: 70%

4. Do you think the Chinese Communists will enter the conflict if the Viet Cong is driven back decisively by
U. S. troops?
Students Yes: 43% No: 57%
Faculty Yes: 27% No: 73%

5. Do you believe that the military power of the U. S. is necessary to prevent control of South Vietnam
by the Communists?
Students Yes: 94% No: 6%
Faculty Yes: 89% No: 11%

6. Do you consider containment of Communism in Southeast Asia within its present limits as important to the security of
the free world?
Students Yes: 85% No: 15%
Faculty Yes: 87% No: 13%

In the DAVIDSONIAN survey, 79 per cent of the students answered affirmatively to the question, “Do you favor the current
involvement and policy of the United States in the Vietnamese conflict?”, while a slightly smaller portion of the faculty, 74
per cent approved of U. S. policy. The poll by Playboy, for whatever it is worth, showed that 75 per
cent of the nation's college students and 68 per cent of the nation’s college faculty members favor the administration's current
Vietnamese policy, thus indicating that Davidson departs from the national trend only slightly. Only eight per cent of the students
answering the poll and five per cent of the professors sympathize with the anti-war demonstrators who call for immediate withdrawal
of U. S. troops from Viet Nam. Here too, Davidson follows the national trend, as six per cent of the
students and eight per cent of the professors answering Playboy's poll favor pulling out completely. Davidsonians shy away somewhat from
sending troops to North Viet Nam in order to bring the conflict to a quick conclusion. Favoring this action were
42 per cent of the students and 30 per cent of the faculty, while 58 per cent of the students
and 70 per cent of the faculty opposed it.

A total of 196 freshmen mailed in bid acceptances over the Christmas holidays as the first year of deferred rush
at Davidson came to a long-awaited end. According to Johnny Jeter, IFC rush chairman, the 196 accepting bids — out
of an original 270 freshmen going out for rush — is about the same total as last year. Of the
270, some 250 got redates, and 223 received bids.

Vote On Keeping Rules To Be Held On Tuesday
By BOB TRAVERS Davidsonian Staff Writer The Student Council will conduct a second referendum on the question of retaining or
repealing the eight student body regulations (Article VIII of the constitution) on Tuesday. These regulations prohibit ungentlemanly conduct on campus
and when representing the college away from the campus, they prohibit keeping firearms in dormitory rooms, drinking on campus, and
hazing, interfering with study conditions in the dormitories and gambling. In addition, students are bound to report violations of these
regulations; Honor Court and Student Council members, who have been honor bound to report such violations, will also be duty
bound after Jan. 17 as a result of a change in the oath of office. The Council will sponsor a
special chapel debate on the proposed changes on Monday. Paul Simpson, who will defend the present rules, and David Meschan,
who will speak for repeal, will make short opening statements, rebut the other, and open the floor for questions from
students. An earlier referendum on this question, a result of Honor Court member John Burk’s suggestion that the student body
vote to reaffirm or repeal the student body regulations, was held the Tuesday before the Christmas holidays. At that time
ballots were placed in the Chambers Auditorium seats before assembly, and the Council feared that there were voting irregularities. In
addition, it was apparent that few students had expected the vote or realized it was more than an opinion poll.
The Council decided on Wednesday, the day after the vote, to discard the ballots and repeat the entire process after
the holidays in order to follow more closely the procedures for amending the constitution which require five days between the
initial reading of the proposals and the vote. The votes from the original referendum were never counted. The voting this
time will take place Tuesday, (for all students except freshmen, who cannot vote until second semester) in the first floor
lobby of Chambers from 8:20 until 1:00 and from 1:30 until 4:00. A two-thirds majority of those voting is required
for repeal of any one of the regulations, which will be voted on individually.

Whitehead Appoints 766 Handbook Staff
Plans for the 1966 Wildcat Handbook are underway, editor Alva Whitehead announced. Newly appointed members of Whitehead's staff are associate
editor, Bob Finlayson, and business manager, Bill Kendrick. Section editors are orientation, Joe Jelks; campus and administration, Bill Schmickle; religious
life and military, Mike Mooty; fraternities, Tom Brown; sports, Tommy Caldwell; student government, Bruce Weihe; extra-curriculars, Holmes Eleazer; and social
life, Mike Booe. “Right now, we are getting estimates for prices on next year’s Handbook. Until we know something definite
on prices, we can't plan on a definite size for the Handbook," Whitehead explained. The new editor said that assignments
as to number of pages for each section will be made during second semester. “We hope to have a larger
book next year, by at least 10 or 15 pages,” the editor said. “To do this, we've either got to
cut the cost of printing or get more ads.” The Handbook will receive the same budget allotment from the college
as last year's book received. Whitehead stated that Kendrick had hopes of expanding the amount of advertising and getting new
advertisers.

Mime Reynders To Appear Tonight
The Davidson College Artist Series will present for its third program of the season the nationally famous mime, Frans Reynders,
at 8:15 tonight in Chambers Auditorium. The Dutch-born Reynders is one of the few who have devoted their lives to
the ancient art of pantomime. Pantomime as an art throws the entire burden on the expressiveness of body and face,
without the aid of costumes, settings, language or even the insistent rhythms and athleticism of dance. Behind each nuance in
the interpretations of Frans Reynders there is, says one critic, “his obvious talent. But in addition there are many years
of training, constant exercise and discipline, close observation of people and things, a sense of humor and his indispensable interest
in human nature.” Reynders has performed since 1959 under the auspices of the arts program of the Association of American
Colleges.

Those freshmen who received bids but did not pledge must wait at least until March 1 to pledge a fraternity.
Until then, they will be able to go to fraternity houses for meals and other functions. Freshmen who did not
receive bids over Christmas may get bids at any time. Pledging ceremonies may take place any time after first semester.
In keeping with the rush program this year, a few regulations remain on the new freshmen pledges. Freshmen cannot be
inFraternity houses later than 7:30 p.m. for the rest of this semester, except for one night when they may stay
as late as nine o'clock. Fraternity men may not be in freshman dorms later than 7:30 so that freshmen will
have a chance to study, while freshmen may go in upperclassman dorms at any time. During the second semester, the
new pledges will eat in the fraternity houses. There is also discussion concerning intramural competition. A faculty ruling freshman participation
for fraternities in IMAC competition. According to Sigma Chi IMAC representative Jim Appleby, a suggestion drawn up by the IMAC
is to be presented to the faculty requesting freshman eligibility.

ALPHA TAU OMEGA (16)
Stewart Allan, Bill Clark, Jim Gooley, Johnny Durham, Clay Ed-wards, John Hanselman, Howard, Colin Hudson, Bill Love, Jim McDowell, Joe
Murphy, Chuck Richard, Greg Simmons, Bob Skenes, Terry Sonnonstine, Garee Thomas.

BETA THETA PI (14)
Burkey Belser, Bill Bradley, Bud Cousar, Sam Gwynn, Joe Kearfott, John Liipfert, Judson McKellar, Jim Marrow, Alec Neisler, Phil Ray,
Mackey Reavis, Hank Strickland, Clyde Timmons, Ed Winn.

KAPPA ALPHA (8)
Richard Bagby, Sandy Brenneman, Bob Cunningham, David Dunn, John Frick, Arnold Hindin, Larry Slade, Craig Wilson.

PHI GAMMA DELTA (11)
Bob Apgar, Lindsay Bishop, Gary Deanhardt, Dave Dilley, Dave Fearnbach, Ham Fuller, Lean, Dan Mombrea, Don Sewell, Tate Sterrett.

PI KAPPA ALPHA (20)
Sam Aycock, Tom Baker, Charlie Baker, Tom Blackmon, Stew Brown, John Croom, Fred Lowrance, Tommy Poston, Mark Robinson, Johnny Roe,
George Rogister, Terry Schroeder, Frank Spence, Sam Tallman, Bill Taylor, Bobby Vagt, John Warren, John Williams, Bill Williams.

KAPPA SIGMA (20)
Bill Bailey, Peter Boggs, Ronnie Brown, Chip Clark, Greg Cox, Doug Crisp, Scott Cutting, Ernie Doe, David Fore, Carey Hite,
John Napier, George Nixon, Mike O’Neill, Bryan Pittman, Eddie Rice, Hal Shaw, Johnny Slaughter, Spann, Henry Whitfield, Hal Young.

PHI DELTA THETA (24)
Cooper Adams, Rocky Cross, Cliff Duke, Joe Floyd, Keaton Fonvielle, Joe Gardner, Blake Guill, House, Wayne Huckel, Kerry Keith, Ray
Logan, Bayard Frank Murphy, Joe Norton, Tommy O'Brien, Tony Orsborn, John Passmore, John Rick Simonson, Rick White, Goslen, Marshall Miller,
Dave Moser, Schimmel, Travilla, Bill Thomson.

PI KAPPA PHI (14)
Bill Adams, Jim Anderson, Brodie Brown, Sid Esary, Cam Ferguson, Tom Graves, Doug King, Jim MacNair, Ben Martin, Mike Payne,
Bob Reid, Joe Scales, Fred Torstrick, Brevard Wallace.

SIGMA CHI (20)
Jim Bailey, Bill Bryan, Dick Chandler, Tom Curtis, Mike Dickens, Steve Faulk, Rick Flinn, Harry Hamil, Dave Cottingham, Jim Jones,
Bobby King, Eddie Kopp, Mike Cross, Sam Deman, Mike George, Al Jasper, Cromartie, Blake Barry, MacMoreland, Paul Gallis, Bill Rich-mond,
Carl Saunders.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON (21)
Tom Alison, Charles Cameron, Covey Carter, Tom Crawford, Roane Davis, Dan Dean, Ed Embree, Lewis Homer, David Hub-Johnson, Kim Kimbrough,
Rusty Lacy, Rob Powell, Chuck Rankin, Dave Robinson, Jep Rose, Bill Ross, Bill Smyth, Al Varner, K. D. Weeks.

SIGMA NU (12)
Frank Ball, Lee Byers, Dean Bert Cushman, Tim Gailey, Bill Hearn, John Lambert, Jim Lehman, Skinner, Bruce Wilson, Toby West-King
Mawhinney, Tom.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON (16)
Anderson, Randy Bridges, Lee Cross, Charles Eakes, Kenneth Gallup, Bob Mercer, Roger.

Only 42 percent of the students and 30 percent of the faculty. Here is the only substantial departure of Davidsonians
from national opinion, as nationally a majority of students, 56 percent, advocate such escalation. Davidson’s faculty is more in line,
as only 28 percent of faculty members polled in the Playboy survey approve of such a policy. A slight majority
of Davidson students, 58 percent, think that Communist China is a paper tiger and will not enter the conflict if
the Viet Cong are decisively driven back, while a heavy majority of professors, 70 percent, are of the same opinion.
In answer to a slightly slanted question, 94 percent of Davidson's students and 89 percent of the faculty members answering
the questionnaire felt the necessity of U.S. military power if South Viet Nam is to remain non-Communist. In a similar
question reflecting ultimate aims and motives of the U.S. involvement in Viet Nam, 87 percent of Davidson students and 85
percent of the faculty concurred with U.S. strategists in their belief that “containment of Communism in Southeast Asia within its
present limits” is “important to the security of the free world.”

196 Freshmen Accept Bids To Greek Chapters
Pledging Is Not Until After First Semester
Committee To Make Rush Study

By MIKE POWELL
Staff Writer

With fraternity rush for 1965-66 now completed, discussions concerning the fraternity rush system at Davidson will turn to appraisals of
the immediately-past rush period. The official appraisal of this year’s rush will be presented to the faculty at its February
meeting by the Committee on Evaluation of Social Life. Included in the report will be the committee’s recommendations for future
rush systems.

Dr. W. G. Workman, chairman of the committee, told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the report of the committee will be based
on interviews with members of the Interfraternity Council, the Social Council and the College Union; and with fraternity men, Independents,
freshmen, faculty members and administration personnel. Workman said that the committee has talked with or will talk with anyone whom
they think can “shed light on the subject.” The committee expects to begin considering concrete proposals concerning evaluation and recommendation
on Monday. Workman said that his committee has been asked by the administration and the faculty to help look into
two major problems — (1) the exclusiveness of fraternities and the feeling of rejection this causes some freshmen, and (2)
the interference with studies, if any, that fraternities cause. The relationship of these two problems to the past rush period
will be the focal point of the forthcoming report, but, as yet, Workman said, the committee is “not ready to
pass any judgments or make any recommendations.”

Another area destined to undergo discussion by the committee is the possibility of expanding the fraternities’ social affiliate programs. It
has been suggested by some students, Workman said, that social affiliation be made available to more or all Independents. Members
of the Committee on Evaluation of Social Life in addition to Workman are Professors A. S. Abbott, H. M. Epes
and S. D. Maloney; Chaplain W. H. Terry and students John Burks, Tom Earnhardt, George Kuykendall and Paul Simpson. Tom
Covington, assistant dean of students, is a non-voting member of the committee.

In addition to the official committee evaluation on the immediately-past rush period, about every member of the college community has
begun to form his own private criticism of the rush. THE DAVIDSONIAN conducted an informal poll of several students to
determine any prevalent attitudes towards this year’s rush.

Council Discusses Absences
The Student Council discussed the problem of excessive absences at meetings and went over the schedule for the Student Body
Referendum at its meeting Monday night. Section 9, Article IV of the Student Body Constitution states that any member shall
be automatically removed from the Council if he is absent from three consecutive meetings or six meetings during his term
of office “without compelling reason.” Secretary Ben Cannon noted that those members with three or more absences included Cannon, Billy
Clark, John Fagg, Randy McKnight, Dave Meschan, Julian Prosser and John Thomas. President Bill Council, noting that assembling a quorum
had become increasingly difficult, asked the Council if another time would be more suitable. Most of the members agreed that
the present time was best.

The Referendum on the Student Body Regulations will be held Tuesday. Ballots will be issued at the regular polling place
on the first floor of Chambers from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 4, with counting
taking place that afternoon at 5. Absent from the meeting were Billy Clark, Dave Meschan and Julian Prosser.
