PAGE FOUR

Local Draft Testing Set For Tomorrow

The Selective Service Qualifying Test to be administered here tomorrow will be given in the basement of Chambers and the Morrison Room of the Union.

Seminars Planned For Philosophy

The Department of Philosophy has altered its curriculum for next year. Philosophy majors will be required in the future to take at least one seminar course.

“We are offering the same courses, plus a wider variety of seminars providing greater opportunity for intensive study and independent and interdisciplinary work," Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, associate professor, said.

The department is seeking to provide a broad curriculum to give philosophy majors an adequate background for graduate work in this area and to open new horizons to non-philosophy majors whose interests may lie in any of several fields, MacCormac continued.

Seminars to be offered next year include those in science and religion and in order in society, both to be led by MacCormac, and a seminar on the works of Ernst Cassirer, to be led by Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, assistant professor. The seminars will be limited to 10 students each. Admission to the seminars is by consent of the instructor. Any student may elect to take one of the courses, though priority will be given to philosophy majors. Criteria for admission will include motivation and interests of the students and will be largely exclusive of grade average, MacCormac emphasized. Grades in the seminars will be based on papers, discussion, and an oral exam. Seminars for the future will be both in problems in philosophy and in the various schools of philosophy.

The test will be given under the supervision of the Student Counseling Office. According to Dr. W. M. Hight, director of Student Counseling, 200 students are assigned to take the test tomorrow morning. The admission card received by students requests them to report to the test center at 8:30 a.m. However, Dr. Hight commented that the time allotted for fingerprinting and giving instructions is insufficient for testing to begin at 9:00 a.m. He urged students to report to the dining hall of Chambers early in order to begin testing on time. Students must bring both admission cards received in the mail in order to be admitted to the testing room. The test will also be given on May 21 and June 3, and Davidson will again be a test center on these dates. The time and procedures will be the same.

BAND IN THE PARK

The wind ensemble presented a program of light classics, what Director Grier Williams called “band-in-the-park” stuff, on Sunday afternoon. A crowd of about 100 persons attended the concert which was held under the trees of the Fine Arts Quadrangle. The ensemble has scheduled a similar program for this Sunday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. at the same location. Selections will include music from Vivaldi with trumpet solos by Jack Walker and Dan Crocker. (Photo by Purvis.)

Bible Head At Davidson Retires After 37 Years

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Lewis B. Schenk, Davidson Bible professor for the past 37 years, will retire at the end of the school year. However, this is not retirement in the ordinary sense of the word. Schenk will not simply settle back to a life of ease. “I don't quite like that word ‘retire,’” he complained. “I believe I'd prefer ‘graduate.’”

When asked why he had chosen to take this step now, Schenk replied, “I don't know, it's just something I believe should be done. I believe we've got a good team to carry on. And I've got a study project that I'm very interested in along the lines of my theological interest.”

His long-range plans are not entirely definite except that he will continue his study. More immediately, he and his wife plan to go to Switzerland to visit their daughter and her family. Schenk expressed satisfaction with his years as a professor at Davidson. “It's been increasingly rewarding through the years. This has been partly because of the rich theological material available.”

Most Greeks Complete Elections For Officers

All fraternities except Sigma Alpha Epsilon have elected officers for the coming year. Alpha Tau Omega elected as its president Gary DeVane. Selected to serve with him were Bill Jones, vice president; Charlie Steel, secretary and Skip Waite, treasurer.

Tom Frist was elected president of Beta Theta Pi, along with Johnny Jeter as vice president. Also, Bud Cousar was chosen secretary and Arch McCallum, treasurer.

In the Kappa Alpha fraternity, Ben Spell was chosen president, Jennings Bryant, vice president; Buddy Durham, secretary and Jim Hatter, treasurer.

Bal Kendrick will serve as president of Kappa Sigma. He will be assisted by Walter Bunjel, Martin Brackett and Norman Pease serving as vice president, secretary and treasurer, respectively.

Phi Delta Theta elected Brooks Sheldon as president while Bill Rikard was chosen vice president; John Loughridge, secretary and Charles Edwards, treasurer.

The Phi Gamma Deltas picked Julian Fite as its president and selected Jimmy Poole and Dan Sweet as secretary and treasurer, respectively.

At the Pi Kappa Alpha house, Tom Brown was elected president; Chris Hawk was elected vice-president; Bill Williams, secretary and Louis Lesesne, treasurer.

Paul Curlee was elected archon of Phi Kappa Phi along with Mike Powell as secretary and Alan Cooper as treasurer.

The president of Sigma Chi will be Joel Williamson. He will be assisted by John Sartorius as vice-president, Jim Selby, secretary and Tom Clayton, treasurer.

Sigma Nu’s commander will be Jim Rostan. Lt. Commander will be Ed McFarland; recorder, Rudy Mauney and treasurer, Butch Cox.

Jeter Fills New Post On IFC

Johnny Jeter, Beta Theta Pi’s representative to the IFC, was elected to the newly created office of second vice president of the Interfraternity Council at its meeting Monday night. Jeter served this past year as chairman of the IFC Rush Committee.

The proposed amendments to the IFC constitution and bylaws were officially adopted at the meeting. One change was made in deference to the wishes of the Student Life Evaluation Committee. Freshmen, during the first semester next year, will be allowed to be in fraternity houses at any time except during meals and after 7:30 p.m. The previous rule stated that freshmen could not be in fraternity houses at any time during the first semester except for special exceptions made by the dean of students in consultation with the IFC.

The proposed amendments to the IFC constitution and bylaws were also officially passed by the IFC. They had been brought up before each fraternity during the previous week.adds the vice-presidency to the IFC offices, and the second amendment sets up the IFC Judicial Board. Also, according to the first amendment, the vice-president becomes chairman of the Judicial Board. In final action, the IFC set its permanent meeting time at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday nights.

The 1966-67 rush regulations have changed: Scott Gabrielson was elected president of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Other officers elected with him were Grover Robinson, vice-president; Mike Norris, secretary; and Charles Reed, comptroller.

"I wouldn't trust myself to say what my experience at Davidson has meant to me. I can only say that I greatly appreciate it, but that is a gross understatement. To my wife as well as myself, it has meant a lot—and still will." Schenk is a teacher for whom the experience of learning has been the most important thing in his life as a professor. "I have been very fortunate in being able to teach in the field in which I taught," he said. "It has been an opportunity to study as well as to teach. This is the main thing."

Many people seem eager to expound on the advantages of a small, church-related college, such as Davidson. Schenk feels that Davidson offers special advantages to professors as well. "In a Christian college, there is a freedom and an opportunity that you wouldn't have elsewhere in the field of theology. Also, I like the idea of a smaller college and the opportunity to be thrown closer together with the boys in the college, both in the classroom and in our home."

In the recent Social Council poll, the Davidson student body selected The Supremes as the most popular entertainment, while the Righteous Brothers and the Four Tops placed second and third respectively. Most acts in the top 50 were rock and roll groups. Also chosen as student favorites in their respective fields were Bill Cosby and Godfrey Cambridge, comedians; Bob Dylan and The Kingston Trio, folk artists; and Al Hirt and Dave Brubeck, jazz performers.

Vince Foster, Social Council Chairman, made it clear that the Social Council will use the poll as "more of a general guide than the rule" because of the many factors involved in hiring popular entertainers. The council will choose entertainment on the basis of popularity with the student body, cost, availability, and dependability.

Ninety-five per cent of the 450 students who filled out popularity polls were willing to pay an admission fee at Social Council functions in order to increase the amount of money available. Foster said the council will probably experiment with the admission fee early next year. Such an increase in funds could double the $3,500 per performance budget. Foster reported that it is possible for the Social Council to hire The Supremes next year if students are willing to pay an admission fee. The act costs $7,500 and could be financed by a joint effort of the student body and Social Council. The Supremes are already booked up during the fall but are open for later dates.

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after Vespers Sunday night:
Buss
Fogleman
Outlaw
Thies
Bailey
Gable
Pinkerton
Welsh
Brown, E. E.
Griffin
Purcell
White, H. C.
Crittenden
Kelton
Rogerson
White, L.
Crocker
McMillin
Smith, C. S.
Williams, R.
Driesell
Nelson

Oh-oh, better check the punch bowl! Ice-cold Coca-Cola makes any campus get-together a party. Coca-Cola has the taste you never get tired of... always refreshing. That’s why things go better with Coke... after Coke... after Coke.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD, CONCORD, N.C.

ROBERT BACHMAN, University of Illinois junior, honor student, swimming team captain, says: “By starting my NML program early, I benefit from lower rates and build up the tax-free cash values sooner.”

It’s like getting a discount for being young! Low net cost and two new features are today making Northwestern Mutual Life “the life insurance company for the college man.” You don’t have to have an “A” in accounting to get the big picture! You can start your life insurance right away with NML—as thousands of college men are doing each year—and save important money. Or you can wait and pay perhaps 35% more in premiums. Let’s spell out a “for instance.” Say you’re 21. You take out a $10,000 life-at-65 policy with Northwestern Mutual. The premiums will run $70 per year less than if you wait until age 31. Suppose you use dividends to reduce premiums. From the fifth year on, the yearly increase in cash value will exceed the annual premium payment, at present dividend rates. Based on those rates, at age 65 you will have paid in $3,039.10. In addition to the protection you have had, your guaranteed cash value will be $7,611.30.

Northwestern Mutual Life is a leader in low net cost among major life insurance companies. We would be happy to send you the authoritative “Actual Result Study,” which confirms this. It is published by Midcontinent Courant, a leading insurance journal. You’ll be interested, too, in our unique Additional Purchase Benefit. It permits you to buy NML insurance six times in your life without a physical exam. You may also establish an Insurance Service Account, developed by NML. Regardless of how many policies you own, you pay your premiums with a single check monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. For full details and information about “Financial Planning for College Men,” call your NML agent. He’s listed in the phone book under “Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance.” Or write:

NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
MILWAUKEE

This is a reprint of an advertisement in TIME, May 6. Those who appear in the program do so voluntarily and in the public interest and receive no remuneration.