VOL. LVI

Students in Dr. Jerry Roberts’ computer classes refer to Davidson’s IBM Data Processing System as Roberts’ wife because of the
time he spends with the machine. She does not bear children or clean house, but the college is finding more
uses for her every year. See story on page three. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Church Rosters Fluctuate
By GARY SIGMON
Staff Writer

Church attendance by Davidson College students during the first six weeks of the semester as compared with last year's attendance
has been varying in different degrees in the several Davidson churches.

Rev. Paul Lowder, minister of Davidson Methodist Church, stated that weekly attendance by Davidson students has been averaging approximately 35.
This is an appreciable decrease from last year’s average. Lowder said that at times last year the attendance reached a
peak of about 125 students. But attendance depended mainly upon the type of weekend activities in which the students had
been engaged. Attendance on concert and dance weekends was exceptionally low.

During the first four weeks of this semester approximately one-half of the entire student body was in attendance at either
Davidson College Presbyterian Church or St. Alban’s Episcopal Church. Rev. Will H. Terry, pastor of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, stated
that student attendance at his church over the first four weeks ranged from 350 to 400, but this number has
decreased in the last two Sundays to only 200 to 250. Terry emphasized that church attendance by the Davidson students
has been better than expected.

The Davidsonian - The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

COOK LAMENTS “KISS OF DEATH”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1966

No “shaking events” are expected when the Board of Trustees meets next Friday, according to Fred Sackett, assistant to the
president. Due to the change of by-laws and charter last May, the meeting will concern “a good deal of orientation
and establishment of procedure,” Sackett said.

At the Oct. 28 session, the Board of Trustees is supposed to receive fraternities’ letters of compliance with the non-discrimination
policy set by the board last May. The policy bars discrimination due to race or religion.

In addition, the trustees will hear proposals for the replacement of required vespers, which were abolished at the May meeting
of the board. They are to review the Wednesday voluntary vesper plan and consider the duties of the college chaplain.

Much of the procedure is in doubt because of the by-law changes. All committees were enlarged to include each board
member in a committee, rather than having all committees composed of only the Executive Committee members.

Davidsonian Rates All-American Rank

THE DAVIDSONIAN has received, for the ninth consecutive semester, an All-American rating from the Associated Collegiate Press for the second
semester 1965-66. Judged in competition with other weekly newspapers of colleges of similar size, the paper received 3,660 points to
qualify for the highest rating given by the press service.

The critique received this week gave “excellent” ratings to editorial page features and to sports coverage. The editorial page was
singled out for its “balance of reviews, columns, art and letters.” The rating also commended THE DAVIDSONIAN for its coverage
of campus issues, particularly in pointing to the most significant aspect of its stories. The competition is sponsored by the
University of Minnesota Journalism Department at Minneapolis. The ratings are handled by professional newspaper men and others with extensive backgrounds
in publications work.

Social Sciences Get Council’s Scrutinization
By BOB BUCHANAN
Staff Writer

An independent study is now in progress to evaluate the Davidson Social Science Department. The study is being undertaken by
the Student Council Sub-Committee on the Social Sciences, composed of two political science majors, juniors Julian Prosser and Mike Powell.

“The motive behind this study,” Powell said, “is to request that the Faculty Curriculum Evaluation Committee put the proper emphasis
on the social sciences in light of student demands.” The study will be carried out primarily through a social science
questionnaire which is distributed by the council sub-committee to a cross-section of the student body.

Said Prosser, “This questionnaire was modeled after the one presented by the Religious Life Committee last year.” “This is not
an opinion poll,” he continued. “This is a study of individual opinion, and each questionnaire will be evaluated considering whose
it is.” “There will be no majority vote,” added Powell. “No tabulation will be made at all.” The results of
this examination are to be given to the proper administrative offices.

Powell stated that in general, the main question to be answered by the questionnaire is “Assuming that the Social Science
Departments are at their very best under the existing circumstances of curriculum and of manpower, what if anything, could be
done to improve (See Survey, Page Six)

WAR GETS CREDIT
By ROBERT PYEATT
Staff Writer

Increased Army manpower requirements have caused a significant increase in applications for advanced ROTC at Davidson, but the increase has
not been as great as at some other colleges and universities," Colonel Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, stated
this week.

“In recent years we have had an average of 60 percent of the rising juniors taking advanced ROTC. This year
65 percent of the junior class are taking advanced ROTC," he continued. Outlaw said that this year about 75 percent
of the rising juniors applied for advanced ROTC. About 20 were rejected for physical reasons and some were rejected for
reasons, such as attitude and academic record.

The change in advanced ROTC enrollment, Outlaw explained, has not been as great at Davidson because there was already a
high percentage in the advanced program. There were also some applications from seniors this year to compress the program into
one year. Although there is a precedent for this in the Junior Year Abroad program, these applications require approval from
Third Army Headquarters, Outlaw pointed out.

Students taking advanced ROTC and those on ROTC scholarships get a military deferment, classification 1-D, to complete undergraduate work and
go to graduate school. Students not taking advanced ROTC are classified for draft purposes on the basis of either class
standing or score on the

Trustee Meet Set

Wednesday voluntary vesper plan and consider the duties of the college chaplain. Much of the procedure is in doubt because
of the by-law changes. All committees were enlarged to include each board member in a committee, rather than having all
committees composed of only the Executive Committee members.

IFC Seeks Telephone Solution

The Interfraternity Council is working toward the possibility that a new telephone trunk line might be brought in to Davidson
from the main line on U.S. 21. Bobby Vagt, sophomore IFC representative from Pi Kappa Alpha, said that there was
a critical shortage of available lines in Davidson. “At least six fraternity houses would like an additional line. The IFC
is working on this. It would cost about $1500 to bring in a new line possible.” Vagt added that a
new line could benefit the entire community. “Besides the extra phones for the fraternity houses, phones could be installed in
the faculty offices on Jackson Court, and the citizens on party lines could obtain a private line.” Grover Meetze, director
of the college plant, said thatIf enough campus groups want a line, the college might pay for it. There is
also the possibility that the telephone company might pay for the installation. At the end of the past school year,
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity canceled their telephone line, as is the common practice on Patterson Court.

ROTC Rolls Increase

Selective Service College Qualification Test. A student must be in the upper half of his freshman class, in the upper
two-thirds of his sophomore class, and in the upper third of his junior class in order to retain his student
deferment. He must be in the upper fourth of his graduating class to be deferred for graduate school. A score
of 76 on the Selective Service College Qualification Test is required for a deferment for four years of undergraduate study,
and a score of 80 is necessary for a graduate school deferment.

“I would strongly recommend that all students who have not done so and are not in advanced ROTC take the
Selective Service College Qualification Test,” Outlaw emphasized. Outlaw anticipates that Army manpower requirements will remain about what they are now
for the next several years. He gave the length of the conflict in Vietnam and the ultimate settlement of that
conflict as reasons, pointing out that the final settlement might require large American forces.

“Our basic instruction has not changed,” he remarked. “We have placed more emphasis on certain aspects of the advanced ROTC
program.” Enrollment in ROTC this year includes 261 freshmen, 258 sophomores, 143 juniors, and 107 seniors. About 47 percent of
the senior class is participating in the advanced program. This figure does not include approximately 13 percent dropped for physical
reasons. There are eight students on four-year ROTC scholarships and four on two-year ROTC scholarships.

Council To Push College Planning

Final preparations for the Student Council “Educational Planning” program were formulated this week in hopes of its inception in two
or three weeks. The program, first proposed by council Vice-President Tom Earnhardt, consists of four teams of three students each
who will speak at a number of high school assemblies in the Carolinas. Earnhardt stressed that the programs “are to
be offered by the student body of Davidson as a service project, not merely a propaganda speech for Davidson College.”

In a prepared letter to be sent to principals of the high schools, he pointed out that the program will
deal with three subjects—choosing the right college, the immediate post-high school years as a period of profound change, and a
“challenge to success.” Stating that the program would also be beneficial for those students not going to college, Earnhardt said
that as far as he knew, “it is unique for a student-oriented group to undertake such a project.”

H. Edmunds White, admissions director, stated that although the admissions department had no specific authority in the program, there was
tremendous enthusiasm for the success of the project. In the letter, Earnhardt continued by saying, “The program was prepared by
a group of 12 juniors and seniors who worked closely with the dean of students (Richard C. Burts), the director
of admissions (White), director of alumni activities (Bill Bondurant), and assistant director of the College Union (Tom Covington).” The project
will be offered free to the high schools, with each presentation scheduled for 35 to 40 minutes in length. If
“Educational Planning” is well-received, Earnhardt said, there could quite possibly be trips to Atlanta, Richmond, and even more distant points.

The students involved in the project are Joe Jelks, Bill Watson, and Vince Foster in one group; Ron Hunt, Mike
Mooty, and Chuck Matthews in the second; Mike Booe, Tom Frist, and Earnhardt in the third; and Tom Rhodes, Ken
Autrey, and Rick Mildner in the fourth group.

Davidson To Sponsor Low Income Housing

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Davidson Mayor's Committee on Human Relations, a representative group from the community, has revealed plans to develop a new
housing project here in Davidson. The committee, whose chairman is H. B. Naramore, manager of Bridgeport Fabrics in Davidson, has
been working on this project for over a year now. Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, professor of Bible and religion and
a member of the committee, emphasized that this will be “a total community project, whose purpose is to provide real
estate for families with modest income who want to own better homes.”

“It is intended to help those people having difficulty in finding adequate housing get decent homes of their own,” he
said. Rhodes added that it may turn out to be a predominantly Negro housing development since there are many Negro
families who will probably want to participate in the project, but that the opportunity is open to anyone, including non-residents
of Davidson. The mayor's committee has formed a non-profit corporation to develop the subdivision area. The corporation has received a
loan in order to purchase territory which stretches between the small pond and the Carolox plant on Griffin St., the
access road to Highway 21, that should hold about 80 houses. At present, technical workers are working out plans for
the street, sewerage, and water systems. The committee wants to make the plans meet FHA standards so that the families
that build can get their loans insured by the FHA. In this way, the families are assured of having well-built
homes.

“The best way to get the best houses for the least money,” said Rhodes, “will be to contract a large
number of houses to a construction company.” Rhodes explained, “The company will use a variety of patterns, but it will
be able to give somewhat cheaper rates when building a large number of units.” The people who participate will be
able to specify the type of house they want.

“We expect to take the names of those people interested in this project in the near future,” explained Rhodes. “We
will try to determine then how many people are interested and thus how many units will be called for in
the first round of building.” Rhodes added that this project should help to alleviate the housing shortage in Davidson, which
he called critical at all income levels. Not only would it provide many new houses for people who want to
own their own homes, but it will also provide old houses, many of which are in fairly good shape, for
other citizens who cannot afford to buy new houses at the present time.

Bob Howard (L) and Scott Gabrielson check the progress of the United Appeal program being conducted by Sigma Phi Epsilon
in connection with a county-wide drive based in Charlotte. Alumni Director William S. Bondurant directed the Davidson appeal that aimed
for a $3,700 goal. He has already gathered in $4,000, and the student drive will be gravy on top of
this. (Staff Photo by Olson)
