Che BDavidsontan

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Positive Approach

We are confident that the faculty and Trustees of the college will give little serious attention to the rather benign
attempts of a few stubborn students to stage a boycott of Sunday night's vesper service. It is disheartening to student
leaders for several of their peers to be so suddenly indiscreet and intractable as to ruin a serious approach to
the dilemma of required religious services at Davidson.

We have no quarrel with the underlying reason for the idea of a boycott—a growing rebellion against required vespers. But
unfortunately, the stubborn element wants to have the cake and eat it, too.

During the past years, required religious services have provided students with spiritually stimulating speakers and programs. But the Sunday night
vespers service has outlived its usefulness now. The steady relaxation of rules governing attendance is positive evidence of the college’s
realization that these required exercises are losing their purpose and place at Davidson.

Loosening of the attendance requirements has been recommended through the years in a major part by students. There is no
reason to believe that the current proposals by students which are being considered by the faculty’s Religious Life Committee—including one
recommendation that vespers be abolished entirely—will not be discussed fully by the committee, which includes three student representatives.

During the past two years, two major changes have been recommended and approved by this committee. In 1964, the committee
recommended that students be allowed to substitute morning worship services in the town of Davidson for the Sunday night services.
Beginning this year, Jewish, Catholic, and Greek Orthodox students were allowed to substitute attendance at services outside the town of
Davidson.

We would like to see Davidson's Christian purpose upheld even more strongly. This cannot be achieved through the force and
threat of a boycott but rather through a positive and really meaningful program which is providing more than the degenerate
vespers services. This, we believe, must be foremost in the minds of those who are truly concerned with supporting the
Christian commitment of the college.

A part of the recently adopted Statement of Purpose of the college should be directed to all sides in the
current discussion: “Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize her vision of excellence...”

Meanwhile, Back At The Ranch

While the attention of many old and new fans of Davidson was focused on the prowess of the Wildcat basketball
team last week, academic excellence rocked right along on campus. Numerous students and professors credited themselves and their school in
a much more meaningful and lasting manner, which is not to say that the accomplishments and rewards of Coach Lefty
Driesell’s team are the slightest undeserved. Not many college players, however, can note with pride the achievements of their classmates
“back home”.

Last week a record number of Davidson students—11 seniors and two juniors—was elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, the
nation’s foremost scholastic fraternity and the highest academic honor which can come to an undergraduate at Davidson. The total of
20 students which have been named to the society this year represents the largest number of undergraduates to be initiated
by the Davidson chapter in its 43-year history.

Two Davidson seniors were named last week as recipients of Danforth Scholarships. Four students, including the two winners of the
Danforth awards, received Woodrow Wilson Fellowships, which are also awarded to potential college teachers. At the same time, another senior
was awarded one of the 60 Rockefeller Brothers graduate fellowships in the nation this year. Before the awards were announced,
Davidson stood ninth in the number of Danforth winners, and fifth in the number of Rockefeller Brothers Fellowship winners. The
college, of course, has received more Woodrow Wilson grants than any other college in the Southeast.

Also sandwiched between the Blacksburg success story and the Raleigh farce last week was the announcement of a chapter of
Omicron Delta Epsilon, and of the 14 charter members to the honorary business fraternity. The 14 seniors have achieved a
2.0 overall grade average in addition to a 2.25 grade average in their major field of economics.

Bowing ironically to the unexpected success of the campus brawn last week was the cast of The Glass Menagerie, which
postponed the scheduled weekend performances in deference to the Wildcats’ participation in the NCAA Playoffs. The play is without a
doubt one of the finest productions to come out of the Department of Drama—notwithstanding the hasty obeisance to the basketballers.
As THE DAVIDSONIAN’s review stated last week, “It had (careful) handling, from an exceptionally fine cast, a good production staff,
and at the heart of it all, the director, Mr. Barer.”

We are indeed proud that Davidson’s fortunes and the achievements of her students are not grounded solely in one field
or another; rather, the liberal arts program here has had multifarious success. The events of last week—both the seemingly ordinary
and the totally unprecedented—bear out the college’s stated aim to emphasize “those studies, disciplines and activities which liberate men physically,
mentally and spiritually.”

Accommodating The Interests

We are encouraged to hear of the consideration being given by the Academic Scheduling Committee of the faculty to the
possibility of scheduling first semester examinations before Christmas. The matter of accommodating the various interests of the college in the
academic calendar is no easy proposition. Furthermore, the problem at Davidson has increased tremendously within the past two years due
to the necessity of scheduling “major” basketball opponents several years in advance. Already commitments have been made on the basketball
schedule for the 1968-69 season, according to Athletic Director Tom Scott.

For this reason, the Academic Scheduling Committee is playing a foolish game by failing to decide immediately on the possibility
of such a changeover in the schedule. There are numerous advantages to moving the calendar back by only three weeks
from its present set-up. The most obvious would be the completion of the first semester’s work before the distracting two
weeks of Christmas vacation, thereby eliminating the terrible two-week cramming period between Christmas and examinations. Also, an expanded Christmas vacation
would be possible.

Many schools have adopted such a system recently, most for the first time this year. Most state-supported schools in South
Carolina, including Clemson and Winthrop, went under the system this year. Presbyterian College, Pfeiffer, and other smaller colleges have received
the new program favorably. The only real disadvantage to such an arrangement would have the first semester classes beginning during
the last week in August.

In recent opinion polls, 74 percent of the faculty favored a change which would schedule first-semester examinations before Christmas, while
60 percent of the student body favored such a change. We hope that the faculty committee will wait no longer
to recommend the adoption of this more efficient calendar; for, every day’s delay in deciding on this question merely complicates
the matter of accommodating the academic and athletic schedules. Students, professors, and administrators alike stand to gain from the promptness
of this committee.

Essential Roles

Each year about this time a group of 16 seniors pitches in to help on an annual project which for
them is recognition of a valuable characteristic—their dependability. The Elections Board, which is appointed by the Student Council and includes
a member of each fraternity and four Independents, demands some time-consuming and often frustrating work on the part of its
members. This year’s job has been complicated by an unusual number of close votes, which, of course, necessitates careful counting
of the ballots and late posting of the election returns. We don't envy the jobs of these seniors, but we
do wish to recognize the essential roles they are playing in the routine of student government.

Dear Editor:

Attacking Sing Out '66 may be similar to attacking Batman, but here ‘tis. The question we must ask ourselves as
well as the Sing Out '66 group is “Sing Out For What?” A group that generates enthusiasm as does this
group certainly must know what they are singing out for. They obviously have the emotional appeal, but what do they
offer for man in the form of a positive way of life for our generation? They offer a set of
four “absolute standards” (love, honesty, unselfishness, and purity) which if followed for one week will make man more human! How
are these standards made concrete and real? They are accepted on faith and come to man in “the form of
an inner voice from the Supreme Being!” The points I make are as follows: 1) Is there any absolute standard
that is best in all situations? 2) How does one know his “inner voice” will be the right answer for
a situation assuming there is the right answer? 3) There is even disagreement within the group itself as to working
definitions of the four.

Lawrimore Hits Vespers From Different Viewpoint

Dear Editor:

Last semester I wrote an ill-conceived, ill-expressed letter to the editor calling compulsory worship regulations “indefensible” and demanding for us
students “Freedom Now.” The fact is that the present policy is indeed “defensible.” What wonder hath God wrought—a student in
favor of compulsory worship? On the contrary, I remain opposed, but hours of discussion with members of the faculty and
administration have convinced me that in this issue black-and-white thinking is utterly naive, whether pro or con.

More times than can be counted, alumni, many of whom were outspoken critics of compulsory worship as students, have written
back and implored members of the faculty and administration to continue requiring worship. Apparently, after graduation from Davidson, these men
found a new appreciation for the benefit they had received from compulsory worship. This fact urges us to clarify the
issue by asking, not “Which arrangement is the most enjoyable?” but “Which arrangement is ultimately best for the men involved?”

It so happens that the value-commitment of the majority of the faculty thus far has led them to feel that
the ultimate benefits Davidson men receive from compulsory worship are great enough to call for continuation of compulsory worship despite
loud student protests. With the full awareness that I may be entirely wrong, I would like to level a renewed
criticism of compulsory worship regulations. Granted, it is commendable to ask, “What is ultimately good for Davidson men?” But another
question lies beyond it, perhaps an even more significant question, namely, “Shall we respect a man’s right to choose his
own ultimate good?” It would seem, in light of compulsory worship regulations, that the faculty and administration would answer the
latter question, “No.”

No critic can deny their right to impose their value-commitments upon us. And if we dislike the imposition, we are
free to leave Davidson. All we can do is urge the faculty and administration to respect our right of self-determination,
especially religious self-determination. They are understandably inclined to wonder if we are “men” at all, so immature are most of
our protests and so often do alumni write, “You were right after all.” But it seems that one’s college years
should be the most significantly formative years of one’s education. It seems further that in these years we must develop
and cultivate a value-system that is genuinely our own, a value-system chosen in the face of live and well-presented alternatives.
And it seems also that in these years we must develop a true sense of responsibility for our own welfare
and our own actions, and responsibility necessitates freedom.

If we as students should be ex-Expected to admit our own impulsive immaturity (which is also a growing-toward-maturity), the faculty
should at least be expected to admit that it has been inconsistent by, on the one hand, encouraging us to
be responsible in the areas of study and conduct, and on the other hand denying us the right to determine
our own religious activities. As I mentioned in my former letter, perhaps it would be more Christian for the faculty
to allow us religious freedom while taking away our freedom of study and conduct, than to continue the present inconsistent
policy.

It seems unlikely that those alumni who disagree with present policies of compulsory worship would feel inclined to write back,
still complaining like students. In no sense can it be certainly maintained that opinions expressed in letters of alumni constitute
a representative sample of alumni views. Only the alumni who care (enough to write) are going to write at all.
Indeed, it may possibly be that most of those alumni who favor compulsory worship are still religiously immature because they
were denied religious self-determination during their crucial college years. (Surely, for the Christian, religious maturity involves a profound respect for
the individual and his right to self-determination and to value-commitment.)

It seems apparent to me that the present college policy evidences literally a neurotic insecurity, perhaps from an underlying fear
to let students face on equal footing views which rival or oppose Christianity. Only as a man struggles with live
alternatives, will his choice be a valid one, and only then can he have any sound basis to expect that
his faith will enable him, not to avoid, but to deal adaptively and constructively with the realities and problems of
life. These are by no means original ideas. To me they seem patently obvious and integral to a constructive theory
of education. Thus I hope this time I do not offend anyone when, in the (Christian) interests of spiritual maturity
and of respect for individual dignity and self-determination, I renew my request to the faculty and administration that present policies
of compulsory worship be seriously questioned.

Earl W. (Buck) Lawrimore
Davidson College

Snider, Earle

Dear Editor:

The Tuesday coffee hour which took place after Senator Thurmond’s chapel speech has prompted us to make certain comments concerning
the questioning which took place. We wish to make it clear that we are not concerned here with defending or
attacking Senator Thurmond’s political position.

Although we agree that questions which serve to clarify issues and point out fallacies—even questions to state opposing arguments—are proper
during a coffee hour discussion, we are opposed to questioning which serves only to ridicule the speaker. It seems that
such ‘inquiries’ are made solely for the purpose of enhancing one’s own image within his particular “intellectual group.” Moreover, it
seems that many individuals are overly concerned with demonstrating their ability to phrase complicated dissertations of an abstract nature, which
serve no constructive purpose and hardly lend themselves to a short and informal coffee hour discussion.

We do not believe that “intellectualism” should be taken as license to treat any guest speaker of the College disrespectfully,
no matter to what extent we may feel his ideas are inferior to our own.

Arnie Snider
Robert Earle
Davidson College

Melton

Dear Editor:

As a resident of “Cardboard Village” I feel I must make some response to the very biased article on Jackson
Heights which appeared in the February 25th issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The article stressed repeatedly (and exaggerated greatly) the shortcomings
of these cottages, but somehow failed to mention their advantages. For example, no mention was made of the fact that
the college maintenance department provides immediate service on any request we make. The trains, which you dwelled on at length,
are not even noticed after a few days of residency. I have lived here two years, and have yet to
see a termite. My heating bill, despite the lack of insulation, is surprisingly low. Your threatened drafts of 40-degree air
do not exist.

You stated that, “the one real advantage of living in ‘Cardboard Village’ is that it is off campus as far
as college regulations are concerned.” Well, you are wrong again, as the principal advantage is the low rent... to be
exact, $35 monthly. Somehow even this fact was omitted from the article. Housing of similar size in Chapel Hill rents
for over $80 per month, and the tenants are subject to a myriad of college regulations. You will do well
to remember that none of us lives in “village huts” because we are required to do so. Rather, we are
grateful for such economical and convenient housing. I personally am sickened, however, by the widespread spirit of ungratefulness prevalent at
Davidson, which shows itself even in an article about married student housing.

Jim Melton
Davidson College

Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
TOM CRAIG

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Photography Editor
TOM THEL
BILL AITKEN

Photographers
BILL OLSON
DONALD DAVIS
CHIP PURVIS

LOUIS LESESNE

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
PAUL MARION
BOB HOLLADAY
TOM COOK
JACK LINGLE
SAM BOYTE

Assistant Business Manager
LINDSAY DAVIS

News Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Feature Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Copy Editor
BILL WATSON

Sports Editor
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager
BOB CAMERON

Circulation Manager
BILL WATSON

Contributors this week: Mike Bates, Cameron Ferguson, Mark Robinson, John Williams, Jim Cooley, Billy Farr, Bill Graham, Carter Fussell, Jim
Marrow, K. D. Weeks, Yates Faison, Bob Reid, Sonny Graves, Cliff Duke, Mike Powell, Kent Gladstone, Heyward Carter, John Wessell,
Dick Richards.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 20036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

CLOSE-UP
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

H. Ellison Pusser

This election week, platforms have been ubiquitous. Their suggestions have been by and large worthwhile. However, most of these ideas
will remain as such unless a nucleus of students interested in one particular reform tackles it and makes sure views
are presented to the faculty, administration, and trustees. In this, a second semester senior’s final column, I shall enumerate the
changes I would like to see made here by the time of the Class of 1966’s second or third reunion.

ACADEMICS AND ADMINISTRATION

An end to Saturday classes is favored by both a majority of faculty and students, yet the Scheduling Committee is
going to overrule the proposal due to the difficulty in scheduling labs. I think a way can be found to
go on a five-day week.

First semester examinations before Christmas, with Commencement in mid-May, is feasible, and worth a try.

The honors program requirement in all majors should be lowered to a 2 overall average, and provision should be made
to allow those with 1.75 or better averages to enter the program with the Department’s consent.

Compulsory Army ROTC for freshmen and sophomores should be discontinued and other ROTC programs made available to Davidson students. All
freshmen should be made aware of the advantages of the various services’ ROTC programs, and then be allowed to choose.

The thrice weekly assembly periods are far too numerous. Required assembly should be called only when a speaker of note
is to be present. A combined system of cuts for these programs and any cultural event on campus should be
instituted.

I feel more aggressiveness in finding new professors is needed. If the College’s stated aim for its faculty is to
have a body of teachers, then hire good teachers. Many brilliant men are complete losses at the lectern.

Spanish should find its place as a major language here. More freshmen should be encouraged to take it; a Junior
Year Abroad program should be organized for Spain or Mexico.

Student jobs should pay the federal wage minimum.

Some provision for the student with three reviews in a day should be made.

The second semester senior year should be examined, and a possible institution of a six or nine-hour senior thesis be
considered, with few other course requirements placed on the senior.

I feel the Admissions Office could better use our students as recruiters for new students, and as liaison men between
the school and its applicants. Additional applications should never be discouraged; the College can afford to hire additional Admissions officers
if need be.

Davidson has got to decide soon just what role she wants athletics to play in her future. Should she try
to emphasize both football and basketball? Should she emphasize only basketball? Should she emphasize any sports? Is she aware of
the dangers of ‘big-time’ athletics? Do athletic victories that please alumni or academic victories that please foundations appear more desirous
to the College?

STUDENT LIFE

Some teeth should be put into the student body regulation against dorm noise. There is no reason for a few
people on each hall to disturb regularly the work and sleep of others. Some sort of “collective security” could be
organized on each hall, as action by an individual is seldom effective (and this person is termed a ‘bad guy’
by his hall’s hell-raisers).

The editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN should be compensated in some way for the tremendous amount of time he puts in.
Few schools fail to grant a tuition reduction, or course credit, or a regular salary, to their newspaper editor.

PHYSICAL PLANT

Improve the campus lighting system. This can be done by using lighting fixtures that would conform better to the campus
than the garish ones of last year’s attempt. A survey of outdoor lighting needs might be made. One bad spot
is the step on the walk between the Union and East.

Better maintenance of the dormitories should be strived for, and at the same time students should be held strictly responsible
for damage to their dorms.

In the not too distant future, a new library, to be hopefully the center of campus activity (as opposed to
the Union, or the Gym), will be built. Parts of it should be open 24 hours a day; it should
be air-conditioned, soundproofed, and have adequate carrel space. The best ideas from libraries across the country should be combined to
make this the most frequented building here.

And, hopefully, planning will start on the ‘coordinate college’ concept, so that one day soon, ‘Just up the road’ won’t
only refer to Hattie’s, but also to Davidson's girls’ college.

AN APOLOGY

My last week’s blast at the ROTC Department for alleged misconduct of its flag duties was largely without grounds. I
have been informed that the American flag that flies at the north end of Chambers is an all-weather flag, and
is thus impervious to the vicissitudes of Mother Nature. It can fly at any time of day, in any weather.
My views as to flag respect were unfortunately formed during my Boy Scout days, when I learned, on page 69
of the Boy Scout Handbook, that, “The flag of the United States should be flown every day when the weather
permits...” I guess synthetic flags have not yet made the Scouting scene.
