FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966 TOM COOK THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

TRIPLE JUMP BIG WIN
Tracksters Surprise Bucs As Brown, Hill Lead Way

The Wildcat cindermen upset the Pirates of East Carolina, with the key victory coming in the triple jump event. High-point man David Brown, who tallied 16 points, placed second to teammate Lou Hill, who finished with 15, as the 'Cats romped to a 1-2 finish in the event.

Hill won the broad jump, high hurdles, and triple jump. Brown's points came from a first in the intermediate hurdles, seconds in the high jump, high hurdles, and triple jump, and thirds in the pole vault and high jump. Other outstanding individuals were Randy Randolph with two firsts and a third, and Starr Evins with a first and a second. Bobby Myers ran a fine leg on the mile relay and Andy Little won the two-mile while placing second in the mile.

100 Yd. Dash (1) Hicks (EC) :10.2 (2) Evins (D) (3) Caldwell (D).
High Hurdles (1) Hill :15.8 (2) Brown (D) (3) Whyte (EC).
Discus (1) Randolph (D) 122-4 3/4 (2) Welton (EC) (3) Moore (EC).
880 Yd. Run (1) Hudson (EC).
Shot (1) Randolph (EC) 44-8 1/2 (2) Hicks (EC) (3) Moore (EC).

While everyone has his mind on Spring Frolics, and no one really cares what is going on in Johnston Gym, Davidson’s other basketball season, the recruiting season, is heading toward the crucial stage. Among the confusing and endless terms like Davidson Letter of Intent, National Letter of Intent, grant-in-aid, and gentlemen’s agreement, Coaches Lefty Driesell, Warren Mitchell, and Terry Holland are like mother hens; sitting gingerly on their eggs while looking for other hens’ eggs to add to their nests without pulling a Coach, Trick from “Gil Thorpe” fame.

The situation of Davidson’s recruiting procedure is like walking on eggs. Essentially, high school seniors who decide to apply to Davidson were either accepted Early Decision in the fall or they were sent their letter of acceptance or rejection yesterday. The only assurance Driesell has that a prospect will come to Davidson is his word, a gentlemen’s agreement. He may sign a Davidson Letter of Intent, but it only explains the terms of the grant-in-aid the player will receive. All the marbles rest on May 17, the first day on which a high school senior may sign a National Letter of Intent, which is, in effect, binding. Actually, this document is neither national nor legally binding, but the majority of institutions in the country agree to honor this document as a final indication of a player’s choice. So until May 17 Driesell does not have a single player wrapped up. Those eggs must be kept warm in their Davidson sweatshirts.

But Driesell has a gentlemen’s agreement with Jerry Kroll, a six-foot-five-inch All-Stater from Houston Memorial High School. Besides leading his team to the Texas state championship, he was the only unanimous choice to the Texas dream team. Kroll was accepted Early Decision and will sign his Davidson Letter of Intent when he finishes his high school sports career, a Texas rule.

Another red-hot high school senior is Mike Malloy, a six-foot-seven-inch prospect from Hollis, N.Y. He was here last weekend, and according to sophomore Wayne Crumwell, “He was very enthusiastic about Davidson.” A study of his credentials as a student reveals he should have no trouble qualifying for admission, and Crumwell describes him as “very impressive, pretty good on the floor and a great rebounder.” He was most impressed with Davidson by the way people came up and spoke to him. Crumwell, who spent a lot of time with him, noted, “I think Mike would make not only a great player but also a great student.”

The word on Charlie Scott comes from many sources. It is complicated and there are many factors involved, but there is a general consensus that Scott is coming to Davidson this fall. He has signed a Davidson Letter, but is still visiting college campuses. Besides Davidson, he has been to Duke, North Carolina, West Virginia, and Providence, whose All-American Jimmy Walker is a Laurinburg graduate. Wayne Crumwell indicated that Scott is impressed with Davidson and its academic standing. Driesell emphasizes that Scott’s word is enough to convince him that Davidson will be Charlie Scott’s alma mater. The most meaningful statement is Crumwell’s: “Charlie has said he will be going to Davidson.”

(Staff Photo by Olson) RAINS DIDN’T STOP PRACTICE WEDNESDAY

Behind-The-Scenes Action In ‘Cat Locker Room

13 IN TOP THREE LAST YEAR (Staff Photo by Olson) :10.25 SECONDS BEFORE THE FINISH ‘Cats Evins (Third From Left) And Caldwell (L.) Take Second And Third

TOUGH PC FALLS

Netters Slam Three Foes

By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's tennis team enjoyed a profitable week last week, despite the unusual fate of having a match with Harvard called due to darkness. After romping past East Carolina, Coach Harry Fogleman's netters defeated The Citadel. But the most prestigious victory saw the Wildcats topple Presbyterian College on their courts, by a 5-4 margin. In this match, Sam Hatcher, Dick Hurd, Peter Parrott, and Woody Faulk captured singles victories, with Faulk and Parrott combining for a clinching win in the doubles. Coach Fogleman called Presbyterian one of the South's finest teams.

9-2 RECORD

The Wildcat netmen currently own nine victories, succumbing only to Kalamazoo and Rollins. The match with Harvard and one with Illinois, which had been slated for this Wednesday, will not be counted on the team's record.

However, the coming week looms ominously in the path of Davidson's hopes. An arduous succession of conference games begins on Monday and ends next Saturday. The Wildcat netmen will host Furman and Richmond before heading north to compete with VMI, George Washington, and West Virginia in a three-day span.

TOUGH SLATE

Coach Fogleman stated, “Next week will determine our true strength. I think we can win the conference tournament again, but first we have to get through these five matches, especially VMI and GW.”

Bill Council and Esmond Phelps play number one and two in singles, followed in order by Hatcher, Hurd, Parrott, and Faulk. Council and Parrott, Hurd and Faulk, and Phelps and Hatcher comprise the doubles team, rated by their coach as very strong.

IMPROVEMENT CITED

Concerning the individuals, he says, “Council has done very well, and although he lost at Presbyterian, he extended a good man. Phelps and Hurd have both played well. I would call Hatcher and Faulk the most improved. Parrott is correcting some problems; he is doing better now, and David Jennings is our seventh man and is helping us a lot.”

These Southern Conference champions could have a repeat performance, but they face a considerable challenge in the coming week, and as Coach Fogleman contends, “We'll just have to wait a week before we know.”

Cold Hitting, Errors Cost ’Cats ECC, HP Encounters

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Poor hitting shut Davidson out of the winner’s column last week, as East Carolina and High Point batted down the ’Cats. In the last three games, ‘Cat batters connected 16 times, yielding 28 safeties to their opponents. Saturday the ‘Cats dropped a doubleheader to their Carolina hosts, 4-0 and 1-0, with the losers chalking up only six hits all day.

ONE BRIGHT SPOT

The only bright spot of the trip was the pitching of Howard Bryan and Henry Wilmer, who both went the distance for the Wildcats. Last Tuesday ‘Cat hitting was up but the pitching was down, as the High Point Phantoms blasted Davidson 10-5. “When pitching is poor,” sighed Coach Tom Stevens, “the rest of the team plays poorly, also.” Sloppy play haunted the Phantoms also, as the winners labored under the handicap of several errors and a fourth-string pitcher.

BASEBALL SCHOOL

“High Point has one of the best teams in the state, even though they didn't play well against us,” observed Stevens.

Rain Hampers Spring Practice

Bad weather and a mild case of the flu plagued the opening of spring football drills. Unseasonably cold weather greeted the 40 candidates as they began drills Monday night. Rain soaked the grid hopefuls Wednesday afternoon, while a flu bug sidelined Head Coach Homer Smith.

“We've all been very well pleased with the boys so far," exclaimed Assistant Coach Dick Tomey. “The attitude out here has been just tremendous."

Continued Coach Tomey, “Our shortage of manpower numerically has been a disadvantage so far. But the team members have been a big help here, too. Nobody is too good to hold a dummy or help out in any way.”

“We expect to run our first scrimmage Saturday," added Tomey. “Up to now, our practices have been mostly workouts to build up conditioning and muscle tone. We don't want anybody hurt because they're out of shape.”

Eighteen lettermen will form the core of next year’s team, but the coaching staff is reluctant to make any judgment as to personnel assignments. “It’s too early to judge personnel,” explained Tomey. “We'll have to wait and see the boys in action during the coming scrimmages. Some of our new boys are going to give the veterans a lot of competition. These scrimmages will tell a lot."

The team will be working out for two-hour periods on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons, Thursday nights, and Saturday afternoons. Practice will end May 14 with a full scrimmage.“Basketball and baseball are their two big subsidized sports.” Their record stands at 15-3. Spring Frolicers will have a 

IMAC Softball Begins With A Boot
By K. D. WEEKS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The IMAC’s spring softball season has arrived and brought with it a new look in fraternity competition. The outlook for the coming season highlights 13 organizations that were in the top three at the end of last season. Actually, the E's finished first, followed by the SPE’s and the Pikas, but to hear a typical interview of the other fraternities, one would think that every team was last year's greatest. So, the following rundown on this year's softballers will list the first teams in order, alphabetical order.

When asked about their team, the ATO's representative quickly responded, “Well, we don't have nine players yet, but... we do have Rufus Adair's terrific arm and a couple of hitting standouts. For instance, Dave Orr hit a home run in the last game but forgot to run (he was tagged out at home). The infield looks tough. Stokes has worked a lot on getting the ball from first to third.”

The Betas have an undefeated pitcher in Frank Powell (he is 1-0) and the antics of Jumpin’ Joe Rice to spice the contests. They also “hope to have the usual strong hitting of Jim Timmons.”

The KA’s have a lot to be proud of already, killing the Kappa Sigs last week, 12-5. “We don't expect to lose a game,” quipped a confident KA. “We finished high last year, and we’re holding a lot of veterans—no standouts, just nine good ball players. Well, you might say Tommy Hunter stands out right much.”

The Kappa Sigs have been pretty much saddened by their start but have hopes for a few breaks in the future. They dropped a thriller last week when, with a 5-4 margin over the KA’s in the top of the sixth, their hurler, Allen Rogers, came to the mound in relief. He held the KA's to eight runs and the Sigs fell, 12-5, in a shocker. “With Goodstein and Kendrick in the field, we ought to have quite a season,” one added.

The Phi Delts made no bones about it. “We ought to win without much competition. Squier should be tough if he'll play. Our infield will be impenetrable, if you don't hit the ball too hard to them, and when we get the hair out of the Beatle's eyes, he'll be an outfielder again.”

The Phi Gams are the only team thus far to have used up all its potential in the first inning and then lose the game. “But we'll come along.” It was released as a hint to the opposition that with Gary Waldron behind the plate, everybody gets second base free.

The Pikas, who term themselves as “damn good,” have the Fabulous Four C's in the infield: Johnny Clark, Mike Carroll, Tom Cook, and John Callender. There is also a strong hitting department, with Bob O'Kelly at cleanup.

When asked of some humorous aspect of their team to lighten this article, the Pi Kapp’s snapped, “Why, the whole team’s funny. We finished deep in the second division last year, and this year, well...” Their one standout is Mac Fiddner, who is “not much with the stick but a great glove man.”

The Sigma Chi’s claim to have a team full of clowns, but they'll be strong with Ronnie Stone, Ellison Tusser, and a few other hot hitters.

The SAE’s will be feared again this year, if Neil McBryde sports his lucky ripped pants which brought them the title last year. Randy McKnight, the “shortest-stop” in the league, should hold the middle together and Chet Davidson plans to carry the big stick.

The Sigma Nu’s took the SPE's last week, 8-3, and got crushed by the E’s in another contest. “It's gonna be a long season, but at least we have vigorous cheering,” quipped a Nu player.

The SPE’s, “Well, you win a few, you lose a few.” This has become their theory. “We are the best this year even though we have already been beaten by the worst. We did whip the Sigma Chi’s last week, but we got all the breaks. Also, you might say Richard Mayvan is the whole team, ask him.”

There is no word yet from the Independents. It is rumored that they have some holdouts.

East

Saturday, as Davidson plays host to Wilmington in a rematch after this afternoon's game. Coach Stevens rates the Wilmington club as another of the best in the state. Like High Point, they subsidize baseball. Game time has been changed to 12:30 p.m. instead of 3:00 as previously announced.

Leading the ‘Cat attack is right fielder Bryant Hinnant with a sizzling .302 average. Coming up second on the hitting chart is catcher Skip Waite, sporting a .278 record. Coach Stevens plans to stress batting practice in future workouts. Bryan and Wilmer have been anchoring the pitching department, with right-hander Buddy Durham starring in relief. Bryan's ERA is 2.43, compared to a 2.25 for Wilmer and a 2.48 for Durham.

The ‘Cats face Southern Conference rival Richmond for a doubleheader here Tuesday. The Spiders boast a strong team, with almost all their starters back this year. Richmond finished third in the Conference last season.

“I was pleased to see David Brown come back so well after being out with a bad foot. Billy Blackstone went to 12 feet in the vault which is a career high for him,” he added.

Results:
Javelin: (1) Kendrick (D) 174 1/2. (2) Moore (EC) (3) Randolph (D).
440 yd relay: (EC) —:44.
Mile run: (1) Hudson (EC) — 4:35.5 (2) Little (D) (3) Taylor (EC).
440 yd Dash: (1) Havard (EC) — 51:9 (2) Myers (D) (3) Flowers (D).
High Jump: (1) Price (EC) — 6 (2) Brown (D) (3) Allen (EC).
880 yd Run: (1) Allen (EC) — 1:59 (2) Brinson (EC) (3) Ste Clair (D).
220 yd Dash: (1) Evins (D) — 23.15 (2) Hicks (EC) (3) Gorham (D).
Pole Vault: (1) Price (EC) — 14-3 (2) Blackstone (3) Brown (D).
Broad Jump: (1) Hill (D) — 21-5 (2) Hicks (EC) (3) Brown (D).
Int. Hurdles: (1) Brown (D) — 7.3 (2) Usilton (EC) (3) Slezak (EC).
2 Mile Run: (1) Little (D) — 10:14.8 (2) Hudson (EC) (3) Taylor (EC).
Triple Jump: (1) Hill (D) — 43-2 1/2 (2) Brown (D) (3) White (EC).
Mile Relay: (1) EC — 3:33.

Journalists Set For Mallet Meet

A violent break with tradition will occur tomorrow—the croquet challenge match will come off as scheduled, DAVIDSONIAN editor-in-chief Louis Lesesne assured the Sports Department this week. “This event has been scheduled several times in the past few years,” Lesesne stated, “but one of the teams always finked out at the last minute.” This year assurances have been received from both The Miscellany and Quips and Cranks that the two publications will serve as the traditional lambs at the slaughter at the hands of THE DAVIDSONIAN malletmen.

“Our greatest strength lies in our depth,” Lesesne commented. “It’s really going to be a problem narrowing down our team. Several of our staff members have varsity experience and any of them will do an excellent job.” The match is set for 1:30 p.m. tomorrow on the front lawn of Chambers.

DAVIDSONIAN sports editor Tom Cook, looking ahead to tomorrow’s match, commented, “We've really got a wicket team.”

Taus Slip By Sigs
Special To The Davidsonian

In a game that was close all the way, the ATO’s captured the IMAC basketball title with a 63-60 victory over the Kappa Sigs last week. The victory gave the Taus an 11-1 season record, one game ahead of the second place Gams and Machis.

Both teams were cold from the floor in the opening minutes but the Taus rallied behind the shooting of Mike Payne and Pat Hubbard to chalk up a 31-25 lead at halftime. The Sigs, however, were not ready to give up as they pulled within two, 45-43, after three quarters. The credit for the surge was attributed to the foul shooting and the ball handling of Ray Garrison.

In the final quarter the lead see-sawed back and forth as each team pulled to 4 point leads but could not hold them. With the score tied, 60-60, the Sigs took possession of the ball and called time out with one minute to play. Obviously looking for one last good shot, the Sigs cautiously moved into position for the shot that would win the game. The Taus’ defense, however, would not give them an open shot. With less than 20 seconds on the clock, Garrison drove the lane but was unable to shoot. The ball was batted to Payne who fired a baseball-type pass to Tau teammate Hubbard who laid in the winning goal, adding a little icing with a final foul shot.

Topping the scoring column were Hubbard and Payne who pumped in 15 and 12 points respectively for the Taus and Garrison who hit 25 for the Sigs.

PUTTING THE HURTS ON HIM

The IMAC wrestling meet on Tuesday and Wednesday nights was marred by several costly injuries. Here Pika Frank Shepard, who won the match, takes his lumps from Daniel Goytia of SAE. Overall the Phi Delts. Individual winners were Glenn Withrow (Machi -123), John Loughridge (Delt -133), Al Jasper (Delt -143), David Dilley (Gam -150), Buzzy Parker (Delt -157), John Flowers (Pi Kapp -167), Ronnie Hunt (Delt -177), Joe Peel (Delt -191) and Kit Thompson (Delt -heavyweight). (Staff Photo by Olson.)