TOM COOK: SPORTS EDITOR

THE JOLLY GREEN GIANTS

While everyone is still in ecstasy about the chopping down of George Washington by our heroes, another group of footballers
quietly goes about its tasks of making Davidson a power in the Southern Conference in the years to come. I
am referring to the Wildkittens, who are anything but that this year. This freshman team is the largest for Davidson
in many years and its potential is unlimited in keeping Davidson on the winning track for the next several years.

Coach Homer Smith calls his freshman football players “some of the outstanding young men of the South” and says, “We
are as proud of them as we can be.” For Davidson, this is the first actual recruiting year in the
last four. The classes of 1967, '68, and ’69 all were either drawn to Davidson with only token persuading or
by a late-arriving New Look coaching staff last year. The primary task of Bobby Brown and Dick Short this year
is to find the 'Cats a quarterback for next year’s first game. Whether it was intended or not, there are
seven freshmen who played quarterback in high school, and all but one of these has experience at other positions if
they fail to get the signal-calling job next year.

This year’s freshman footballers are bigger than any recent frosh squad before them. Every tackle and center this year weighs
over 200 pounds and the guards and ends are not far from reaching that level themselves. Ends like Mike Kelly
and Terry Esterkamp will give the ’Cats big terminals next year either on offense or defense. Tackles like huge Gary
Hemric and Don Brown, Joe Carr, and Dave Thompson plus sophomores Jeff Pflugner, Hank Strickland, and Sandy Brenneman should give
the ’Cats a wealth of big men we have always been short on. With 11 running and defensive backs on
the frosh roster, plus the potential of Kerry Keith, Mike Thornton, and Greg Cox, Davidson should be deep and strong
in the backfield for years.

The freshman team will tackle its toughest slate in many years, beginning in two weeks when it meets Duke followed
by games with North Carolina State, Furman, Gardner-Webb, and CMA. Smith says Davidson scheduled the Blue Devils because “we thought
the boys would like to play Duke and we want to play teams that Davidson should be playing.”

The problem of several sophomores passing up football after they did well last year presents the question of who can
help Davidson next year. Smith says, “Everyone who wants to help can play. Some of the least-likely players have become
important in our plans.” An example of this is the development of Johnny Slaughter as a varsity interior lineman after
many people felt he was too small to aid the cause. Just being the best freshman team at Davidson in
several years does not mean we can start ordering bowl tickets. The quality and numbers of our players must compare
with the best in the league if we are to do well in the future. This year we beat West
Virginia in size and have as many prospects as they do. West Virginia missed out on a number of recruits
because of the coaching turnover last winter. The junior Mounties have 32 players compared with our 34. They have only
six 200-pound or plus linemen. We have eight. Most of their boys are from West Virginia and Pennsylvania, while ours
are from throughout the South. This comparison on paper is meaningless unless you consider the established reputation of West Virginia
against the building of Davidson to prominence in the conference and region. If we continue to attract the good high
school student with above-average athletic ability and superior desire, we should have a team that will be a credit to
the school and to an athletic program here which is attempting to make a little go a long way. Probably
the best thing that could have happened to Davidson was the GW win which gave the freshmen the taste of
winning from the start. Football has come of age at Davidson and promises to give us something else of which
to be proud.

JUST MAKING SURE

Davidson had 12 men on the field at least once on a punt return Saturday. Coach Smith said, “I'd sure
rather have 12 on the field than 10.” He said most 12-men-on-the-field situations are discovered “when one of the players
can’t find anywhere to line up in the formation.”

Davidson's foe tomorrow night, Furman, lost to Parsons College, 20-6, last Saturday night. For those of you who are not
acquainted with Parsons, it is not the Davidson of the Midwest as its name might imply. The name given by
its students and Life is “Flunkout U.” With the reputation that goes with the title, Parsons is bound to appeal
to the strong, silent types as its 8-1 record of last year indicates. Just goes to show, as Davidson’s all-time
record indicates, football games are not won in the classroom.

THE POWER OF THE PRESS

When Greg Myers, soccer coach at West Virginia, realized in mid-August that he didn’t have a goalie on the (Continued
on Page 7)

JOHN GILES BOOTS 29-YARD FIELD GOAL

"I Feel I'm Getting Better” - Sons Saee Fe

BILLY TAYLOR RETURNS KICKOFF En Route to Good Yardage

*Cats To Face Furman Tomorrow After Upsetting GW Saturday, 13-9

By DANNY WHITE Sports Writer

The Davidson Wildcats will clash with the Furman Purple Paladins at 8 p.m. tomorrow night at Memorial Stadium in Charlotte
in the 37th meeting in a series dating back to 1902. “Furman is the closest thing to a traditional rival
that Davidson has," Coach Homer Smith said. “We know that Davidson is Furman’s big game, but we look at it
as just another game in which we must play as well as we can if we are to win.”

Although Davidson has blanked the Paladins in the last two encounters, Furman still holds a 25-11 lead in the overall
series. Before the last two games, Furman had beaten the ‘Cats 13 straight times. “The Paladins are an explosive team
and they are much improved over last year," Smith said. “We caught them at a low ebb last year when
their quarterback was hurt. This year,

Kilgo Forsakes Paper To Become ’Cat SID

By YATES FAISON Assistant Sports Editor

Stepping from the hurried and deadline-filled confines of the newspaper world at The Charlotte News, John Kilgo has found himself
surrounded by an entirely new system of variables in his capacity as Davidson’s newly-created sports information director. “I still consider
myself a newspaper man," said Kilgo, “and never, never will I be a public relations man. I feel that in
this job I can present newspaper men with legitimate items to write about—not sell them a bill of goods.”

The ultimate reason for his acceptance of the post, Kilgo said, is the challenge it presents, “although I think about
it at night.” “Probably the biggest reason," Kilgo said, “is my great admiration of Davidson as an academic institution and
the great man, Grier Martin, at the helm of the ship.” Kilgo listed his friendship with Coach “Lefty” Driesell over
the past several years as a key factor. “I have a great respect for him, and he’s awfully good for
Davidson. He should be displayed as the gentleman he is.

POOLE ELUDES WOULD-BE TACKLER Chalked Up 191 Yards Total Offense

Not only does he drill his boys on basketball fundamentals, but he also instills in them the desire to be
great students and campus leaders.” Although he has not known Coach Homer Smith as long, Kilgo insists that here is
another point in Davidson's favor. “I can truthfully say that I have never been more impressed with any man than
I have with Homer Smith, and the same goes for his assistants. We believe in what they're doing.” The final
reason, said Kilgo, is the presence of Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott. “We are fortunate to have a man of
his caliber.”

The job of the Sports Information Director is essentially to report to newspaper men and tell them what Davidson is
doing in all areas of sports activity. It also requires showing the representatives of the news media around and helping
them acquire their information. Kilgo said that he feels the greatest discrepancy between his job and that which he had
envisioned is in his perspective concerning the press. “In this job, you find out in a hurry how competitive newspaper
and TV men are, which, of course, they have every right to be.” Although he knew a good deal about
Davidson, there is one big impression left on Kilgo after his short tenure here. “I feel,” he said, “that I'm
a part of one of the really great academic schools in the country. It’s inspiring to see boys put forth
hustle and determination on the field in addition to their academic efforts.” Whatever the case, it must feel different to
sit on the other side of the fence.

LEADING SCORER SATURDAY

BY GEORGE ROBINSON Sports Writer

Giles’ Toe Adds Big Plus

The Wildcats came up with another offensive weapon when John Giles was thrust upon the kickingScene Saturday: Giles scored seven
points, all with his toes, to aid the Wildcats in their 13-9 victory over the Colonials of George Washington. The
175-pound guard connected on a second-period extra point attempt and 27 and 29-yard field goals in the third and fourth
quarters, respectively. This was the first game in which Giles has place-kicked. Pete Glidewell, slated to kick, suffered a sprained
ankle, and so Giles had to fill in. According to Giles, who uses a special kicking shoe, he felt “real
good” after the field goals. He did not kick during his freshman and sophomore years due to an injured knee.

BEGAN KICKING AS YOUNGSTER
Giles has developed his place-kicking ability over a period of years, starting when he played Little League football in the
sixth and seventh grades. During high school, he played in Morganton. “I started out as a guard,” he said, “but
played mostly fullback and some halfback during my senior year. My father place-kicked some for North Carolina State and has
helped me a great deal.” Coach Dave Fagg has helped Giles this season as well as Assistant Dean of Students
Jim Terry. Terry kicked for Davidson the past three years and holds the Southern Conference record with 37 straight extra
point conversions. “I would like to believe that I can beat his record,” mused Giles.

Over the summer, Giles worked on his kicking. “I began to kick the ball higher, which helps a great deal.”
Giles cited keeping your head down as the most important factor in kicking. He is usually out practicing a half
hour before the rest of the squad. After warming up with extra point kicks, Giles works on field goals. “I
kick mostly straight shots until the 25-yard line. Then I try from different angles. In practice, I have made 40-yard
field goals, which is a 50-yard carry.”

KICKS UNDER PRESSURE
During regular practice, he kicks while teammates rush at him yelling and screaming. “Coach Homer Smith even throws his hat
at me, trying to distract me.” Besides place-kicking, Giles plays a cornerback position. A letterman last year as a sophomore,
he was switched from his linebacker position this season. “I feel like I’ve gotten better. I just have to get
the feel of this new position.” Defensive Coach Dick Tomey said, “John has worked very hard. He has a lot
of responsibility on every play, and his best offensive ball is still ahead of him.” Head Coach Homer Smith said,
“John is a member of our fine golf team, and, as a result, has the ability to produce whatever he
is capable of under pressure. If he did not have that ability, I would not have called on him to
kick.” (Staff Photos by Olson)

Though they have the potential to beat any team in the conference, Furman lost to a “very strong” Parsons team
in their opening game. The Paladins are led by co-captains Jimmy Kerr and David Davidson, whom Furman Coach Bob King
calls “the best tackle in the conference.” Also starring for Furman are Dick McClellan at linebacker, Clyde Hewell at quarterback,
and end Dusty Chichester. “We must play with the same enthusiasm as last week,” Smith said, “if we are to
win.” When told of Davidson's spirit, King said, “Ole Homer seems to think he has a corner on the spirit
and hustle market. We're going to show him what spirit and hustle really mean.”

Davidson will go into the game without the services of linebacker Joe Gaddy, who was injured in the George Washington
game. Also on the injured list is defensive end Buddy Newsome, who suffered a dislocated shoulder in Wednesday night's practice.
Newsome is expected to be lost to the team for about three weeks. No replacement has been named.

SI PICKS 'BAMA TO TAKE THIRD NATIONAL CROWN
(Reprinted from Sports Illustrated)
Sports Illustrated has again picked Alabama to roll to a third consecutive national football championship. Alabama Coach Paul “Bear” Bryant
says 205-pound tackle Cecil Dowdy is the best he has ever coached. The Bear sports 34 lettermen, a fast, experienced
team, and a less than demanding schedule. Other southern teams expected to finish high in the national ratings include Georgia,
LSU, Tennessee, Mississippi, Georgia Tech, and Clemson. Tackle George Patton will spark the defense for the Georgia Bulldogs, which also
boast two good fullbacks and a 9.5 sprinter. This year the Bulldogs will be spared encounters with such powers as
LSU, Tennessee, and Alabama. Nine starters on offense and seven defensive specialists are gone from LSU, but Nelson Stokley and
230-pound strongback Billy Masters can be counted on to head a hard-nosed defense for the Tigers. All eyes are on
Richmond Flowers at Tennessee, which has a team with strength and depth in all departments. Paul Naumoff, the Vols’ top
defensive ace, will move to linebacker. Mississippi lost some key players and faces a rough schedule, but has 34 lettermen
and a tough, aggressive defense sparked by linebacker Lee Garner. Georgia Tech's Bobby Dodd brought in new assistants and shifted
several men from his well-stocked offense to his charitable defense. Look for quarterback Kim King to sweep the Tech schedule,
which includes seven home games. Clemson looks like an ACC champion, especially since Duke, UNC, and USC have been disqualified
from winning the top berth because of failing to schedule enough conference games. Coach Frank Howard has groomed a big
and experienced offensive line and a bevy of good receivers.

Neither rain nor mud nor upperclassmen’s taunts could stop the traditional cake race, run last Monday over a damp and
muddy 1.7-mile course. About 200 beanie-clad freshmen turned out to jog over hill, dale, and Grey Road, with cakes baked
by faculty and administration wives going to the first 75 runners. John Puckett, Allen Pusey, and James Puckett copped the
top three spots. (Staff Photo by Weems)

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
PAGE SIX
FRIDAY, SEPT. 23, 1966

Poole, Glidewell Pace ’Cat Win
By JOHN FRICK
Sports Writer

Coach Homer Smith said this week “hard work and determination” gave the ’Cats their 13-9 upset victory over George Washington
here Saturday. “The boys worked real hard at Camp Carolina this month,” Smith said, “and I told them they were
ready for GW.” Smith gave much credit for the victory to quarterback Jimmy Poole, who, Smith said, played “his best
college game.” The 165-pound senior completed 12 of 16 passes for 108 yards and one TD. “Jimmy did a marvelous
job,” Smith said. “And he’s getting better all the time. He can hit a hundred in a row when he
has protection.” The other end of the ’Cat aerial attack was end Pete Glidewell, who hauled down nine passes for
85 yards, setting a school record for most passes caught in a game. The old record was seven, set by
Bill Rikard in a 23-7 loss to GW last year.

The ’Cats kicked off the scoring early in the second quarter when Poole hit Glidewell with an eight-yard pass to
paydirt, capping a 74-yard drive. Guard John Giles then kicked two field goals, a 27-yarder in the third quarter and
a 29-yard boot in the fourth, besides an extra point, to wrap up the scoring for the ’Cats. Quarterback Glenn
Davis gave the Colonials their only TD of the afternoon, as the 175-pound junior scampered three yards around right end
late in the third quarter. Fullback Mark Gross kicked a 30-yard field goal late in the second quarter for GW's
only other points. The Colonials threatened early in the first quarter, as end Gary Brain snared a pass from Davis
and plowed 42 yards to the Davidson 37 before cornerback Tommy Dews brought him down. The ’Cat defense, led by
halfback Dick Lindsay and Giles, stiffened and ground the GW drive to a halt. The victory over GW was the
first in four meetings against the Colonials.

OFFENSIVE UNIT CHOOSES NAME
Davidson's offensive unit has finally found a name to match the defensive unit's nickname, Gurkhas. Based on the way they
jumped on George Washington for 13 points Saturday while giving no indication of being overpowering, the offense has named themselves
“Poole Shark and His Hustlers.” The Poole Shark is quarterback Jimmy Poole, who between limping after every time he carried
the ball and avoiding linemen as if his life depended on it, guided the Wildcats to victory over an opponent
rated as much as a two-touchdown favorite. While much of the spirit of the football team came from the Gurkhas
last year, the offense has taken the ball and become the guiding force of the team, a source revealed. Members
of the Hustlers backfield are flanker Johnny Walker, tailback Billy Taylor, and fullback Kerry Keith. Linemen are ends Pete Glidewell
and Bill Rikard, tackles Gary Waldron and Kit Thompson, guards Joe Murphy and Bill Webb, and center Walter Greene. The
joint determination of these 11 has relieved Coach Homer Smith of nights of worry whether the ’Cats could move the
ball this year. Last week’s win over GW made believers out of everyone.
