**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Breath Of Fresh Air

The appearance of Mr. Alexander Gabriel in Tuesday's assembly was like a breath of fresh air in what has generally
been a barren year for chapel speakers. The spectacle of an entertaining, yet well-informed speaker has come to be an
unexpected treat in the three-times-a-week fare of assemblies.

An aside made during the course of his talk suggested to us an entirely different significance from what he intended,
yet it seemed somehow appropriate that he should make the comment. We refer to Mr. Gabriel’s suggestion of the prospect
of his picketing in front of Chambers for a more substantial honorarium for his speaking engagement. While the journalist’s comment
was undoubtedly spoken in jest, at least for the most part, we suggest that drastic action may be warranted, should
it provide us with more speakers of Mr. Gabriel’s caliber.

False Advertising

Talk about sensational advertising. We found a good one in the want ads of the Charlotte Observer. The ad read:
“BRA will place you fast.” Now that is certainly eye-catching, but let us read on. “Engineers—Accountants, Female positions; etc. “Barbara
Russell Agency.” Would you say that Miss Russell’s ad is false, well not false, but at least a bit blown
up, or padded anyway. —The Daily Tar Heel

The amount provided for the usual chapel speakers is piteously low, and consequently the possibility of hearing outstanding speakers is
ordinarily limited to such channels as the Reynolds Lectureship or chance contacts of members of the college community with scattered
speakers of extraordinary ability.

Complaints against required assemblies are so often heard that they are rarely taken seriously anymore. But we suspect that the
ordinary student's objection is not so much to the required exercises in themselves, but in being subjected to dull and
uninteresting speakers who just happened to be available. If funds are not available to supplement the existing appropriation for assembly
speakers, the next best step for improving the situation would be to reduce the number of assemblies and offer a
smaller number of outstanding speakers. Is not one Mr. Gabriel worth 10 mediocre speakers?

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Managing Editors
Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK

News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
LINDSAY DAVIS

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Assistant Copy Editors
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Photographers
BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Luther Moore, Bill Richmond, Cliff Duke, David King, Doug Crisp, Don Sewell, Bruce Weihe, Mike Bates, Bill
Graham, Bill Seigler, Carter Fussell, John Williams, Mark Robinson, Kent Gladstone, Billy Farr, Grey Pash, Mike Powell, Dave Lewis, Allen
Webb, Bob Schofield, Charles McEwen, Dick Richards, and John Wessell.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Critic Applauds Success Of ‘The Glass Menagerie’

By HANSFORD M. EPES

A Review

When Tennessee Williams’ The Glass Menagerie opened in New York in 1945, the critic Ward Morehouse said that it was
“fragile and poignant... a curiously enchanting play.” Twenty-one years later, the play has lost none of its charm. It is
still enchanting, still poignant—and still fragile. It takes careful handling. And Thursday night—or during the many weeks that it takes
to bring about a Thursday night—it had that handling, from an exceptionally fine cast, a good production staff, and, at
the heart of it all, the director, Mr. Barber.

Glass Menagerie’s nature might be suggested by the title of a song heard briefly in the background music: ‘Street of
Dreams’—for this “memory play” is itself a dream, about Laura, whose world is inhabited by delicate glass animals; about her
mother, Amanda; and brother, Tom—whose glass menageries of an idealized past and a movie house present are of no more
substance, and no less reality, than is Laura’s fragile collection. Their world is entered by Jim, a Gentleman Caller, who
is for Tom a gift to his family; for Amanda, a remembrance of things past; and for Laura, an old
dream which becomes real—and shatters.

Tom is, of course, the author of the dream. His mixed emotions concerning his family were well portrayed by Bill
Wiseman, who managed the difficult task of maintaining in proper balance measures of sardonic distance and genuine and gentle affection.
Laura, whose fragility is difficult to play convincingly without giving the impression of blandness, did not come through in Mary
Martin's portrayal as a really developed character—but one wonders if this fault does not lie partially in the drama itself.
Jim, the Gentleman Caller (Walter Drake), is a somewhat gauche and often humorous “ordinary young man.” As such, it is
easy for the actor and director establishing his character to let it degenerate into a slapstick portrayal; this was the
case during most of the second act. Little touches such as one bit of added comic “business” just before Jim
begins to talk to Laura starts him off with the wrong tone. The result was often to let gentle humor
degenerate into farce—a major flaw in a scene where the transitions between humor and poignancy are so frequent and rapid.

The star of the evening, though, was Ethel Rhodes as Amanda. Although Amanda's silliness came through, not as often as
it perhaps should, the character was developed with a warmth and understanding which is vital. The lines she speaks show
her faults: Mrs. Rhodes’ acting showed the endearing qualities which underlie them.

The author's notes for the drama indicate the importance which he places on production, always an important factor in conveying
the mood of a drama. The lighting (John Liipfert and Harry Blakeslee) is particularly worth mentioning. This difficult job was
done almost flawlessly. Robert Williams’ set was, for the most part, attractive and effective, though the tendency toward boxiness was
a little annoying, particularly so with the spectacle of that incredible op-art back wall, which some architect inflicted on the
stage, peering over the top of the apartment. Further, a play such as this calls for a much greater use
of the stage area toward the audience than there was; and the color of the archway curtains, given the effectively
bland colors of the costumes and set dressings, was less than fortuitous. The sound track (from the original production) contributed
a great deal, but was once or twice too loud. This is quibbling, however. It's a good play; it’s well
done. It should show that a college audience doesn’t really need such trivial diversions as Green Grow the Lilacs in
its unfortunately limited drama program; good drama is also entertaining. The Glass Menagerie will play again at 8:15 on Tuesday
and Wednesday. It's well worth seeing. Don’t miss it.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Smith Objects To Policy Of Requiring Worship

Dear President Martin:

I am looking forward to your discussing the college’s Vespers policy with students on Open End next week. With the
hope that the discussion then will concern creative suggestions, may I try to summarize here some of the negative and
critical ideas which many of us have about compulsory church attendance.

In my mind, there are two basic reasons for disagreeing with the Vespers policy. The first concerns the idea of
the whole thing. To require one to worship is impossible. Worship must by its nature be free; the idea of
required worship is self-contradictory. Of course, the college recognizes this, and would not try to require students to worship. Instead,
the college merely requires attendance. The purpose of this must have something to do with the hope that association with
a worship service will do students some good.

This leads to the second major objection to Vespers. In practice, they do not produce the benefits which it is
hoped they would. Perhaps at a different school in a different society at a different time, forced association with worship
could have had some good effects on students. But for psychological, social, liturgical, and many other reasons with which you
are well familiar, it does not do so at Davidson at the present. I think it is a fact that,
practically speaking, the effect of required Vespers on students is overwhelmingly bad—both for themselves and for the church. Although Vespers
is intended to help the church, it actually harms it, due to the intense reaction of students against a church
which uses these techniques to maintain its position. In the end, the Vespers policy forces a large portion of the
student body to act hypocritically, as though they had beliefs which they do not have, or about which they are
in doubt.

These two objections to Vespers, an ideal one and a practical one, must be obvious to the college. Therefore, the
college must have reasons for its Vespers policy. For example, Vespers requires students to be back on campus by Sunday
evening, so that we don't overextend ourselves on weekends. The assumption of this argument is that students cannot be responsible
if given freedom. In light of our mature response to the broadening of the class cut policy several years ago
and to the recent repeal of the student prohibition on drinking, this assumption is false. Moreover, it contradicts Davidson's goals
of a Free Christian College.

There are much better reasons for the Vespers policy than those given above. One is that the college cannot afford
to antagonize potential donors during the Ford Challenge Campaign. Another is that the college is not willing to act contrary
to the wishes of the Church which founded it, and especially the Trustees which govern it. As I mentioned above,
by acting according to the Church's wishes, the college is acting against the Church’s interest. Like the Church, the donors
and the trustees are using their money and votes to enforce a policy which they think is good for students,
good for the Church, and in accordance with their personal ideas about religion and education. I am convinced, however, both
that this policy is bad for all concerned, and that the mental and spiritual welfare of students should be the
one factor above all others which determines college policy. I sincerely hope that the college will have the wisdom and
determination to defy interests which run counter to the free and responsible education of the students.

Freedom concerning worship, and freedom to behave according to the best that one thinks and believes concerning religion, are essential
to the existence of a Free Christian College.

Murray Smith
YMCA President and Religious Life Committee member

Lindsley

Dear Editor:

With this letter I hope to clear up what is a very hazy, if not inaccurate, picture painted by your
article on married-student housing (your article “Couples Live in Village Huts," Friday, Feb. 25, 1966). For my purpose it is
entirely irrelevant whether I gave this impression to the interviewer or the interviewer wanted a story of this tone and
picked carefully from what I said to suit his purposes. I do not wish to pin blame on anyone but
merely wish to point out that there is definitely another side to the story:

From a very practical angleI might point out that all four of the married students who rent in Jackson Heights
chose this location over the ‘nicer’ apartments in town. Why? First, the rent here is only $35.00 a month ($40.00
with college furniture). Compare this with other schools. Secondly, speaking for myself, I chose to have my own four walls
and front and back doors opening onto a yard rather than having an apartment which shares the main entrance with
another family. As to the physical condition of these houses, there are certainly “cold weather” problems and room for the
school to make improvements, but these conditions do not warrant the slum-like implications (enhanced by the accompanying picture of the
article). I dare say that more than a few of the grand old houses on North Main Street run into
similar troubles. Also, the language used in the article indirectly indicts the college maintenance department, implying negligence. Several times this
year all four of us have had something needing attention and have received prompt service. I might cite the Sunday
of our snow and near-zero weather when Mr. Luther Honeycutt, in charge of the maintenance department, crawled under the house
to thaw our frozen water pipes. It is also my opinion that the houses can be made into pleasant as
well as comfortable homes just as they are. The college paints the exterior every few years, and furnished paint by
the college, the students often paint the interior. In fact, three of us completely repainted the interiors this past fall.
Regardless of what can be said for or against the houses in Jackson Heights, each one of us is pleased
with living here. What else can be important!

Derek G. Lindsley
Davidson College

Carroll

Dear Editor:

Concerning the recent article on Freshman Camp, I would like to offer a brief clarification. There are four salient reasons
that produced an excess of funds this year. First, an increase from 100 to 160 freshmen attending camp. Secondly, the
Freshman Camp staff's handling of the eating arrangements when Slater was unable to cater to the camp as it had
in the past. Thirdly, Slater helpfully bought all of the broken-lot food left over from Freshman Camp. Fourthly, the fact
that we were charged nothing for the camp; although we sent the camp a check charging ourselves a dollar per
day per person in an effort to ensure our use of Camp Thunderbird. The Freshman Camp Funds have always been
kept by the business manager in a separate account from the regular Y funds. Deducting unpaid liabilities, the Camp has
an excess this year of $913.86. Due to the amount of the surplus and the success of this year’s Y
fund drive, this excess will not be placed in the general Y fund, but kept in a separate Freshman Camp
account. With this excess to fall back on, the rate for next year's Freshman Camp will be reduced and the
savings will be passed on to the class of 1970.

Don Carroll
Business Manager
Freshman Camp
Davidson College

‘Death Of God' Movement Raises Modern Questions

A recent movement in theology, the Death of God movement, has caused a good deal of controversy among both laity
and clergy. Ministers hotly blast these new “atheists.” The pious cringe at their bold irreverence. How could anyone question the
existence of the quiet Nazarene, the Lord and Saviour? How, they ask, but they make deaf their ears, make blind
their eyes and minds, when spokesmen of this movement try to explain their radical thinking. Their emotionally weighed reactions deny
any real, creative interaction with the ideas presented. Further complications plague this debate in the person of its major spokesman,
Thomas J. J. Altizer. He shrouds his visions in the language of the mystic. Despite these two difficulties, I feel
unable to light the first fagot or to turn my back on the whole issue as insignificant. I feel that
it is important to attempt what I feel is an honest presentation of part of this movement's thought as found
in Altizer. Altizer asserts, “A theology which continues to proclaim the reality of God is closed to the contemporary reality
of the incarnation.” Theology was once a carefully designed structure with secure foundations. But now, Altizer affirms, this structure has
lost its traditional ground and has retained only the possibility of speaking meaningfully; then, only when it speaks against its
own historical identity. The problem for theology today is one of “overcoming the root impediments of speech itself,” rather than
that of speaking meaningfully or relevantly. Once theology reflected the thinking response of man to the incarnate Word. But now
this Word is silent! To proclaim the reality of God to our day can only be to echo a past
revelation. For Altizer, this secondary contact is invalid. Valid theology cannot lie in the past, for as William Blake’s poem
“America” indicates, modern man is isolated from the past, cut off from the bonds of traditions. Only as theology speaks
of the “actual now to which the Christian Word is directed” can theology be meaningful. But now this Word is
silent! The Word is silent, Altizer states, because man has arrived at the point where he has realized the Death
of God. Man finds it no longer meaningful to believe in the existence of God because such is irrelevant to
the problems of today; he finds it no longer possible to believe in the existence of God because the modern
scientific world view has brought supernaturalism into disrepute; and he finds it no longer necessary to believe in the existence
of God because the mysteries of the universe cease to baffle him. It is only now, in our times, that
we come to understand what happened 2000 years ago. The transcendent God descended to become immanent in the person of
Jesus Christ. Here Altizer's mysticism eludes us. He asserts that man killed God. He is dead! He affirms this on
the one hand and maintains an optimism on the other. It appears to me that Altizer is using hyperbole, overstatement.
I feel that he means by these affirmations that man is incapable of having a personal encounter with the divine
in his immediate circumstance. Further, Altizer hopes that out of an honest, open recognition of our despair, we might emerge
to a new vision of the incarnate Word, Christ. The apparent contradictions between Christ’s death and sudden reappearance constitute the
major difficulty in attempting to make this theology consistent. But still we see the questions raised: modern questions of relevance,
of meaningful speech, of real encounter. The value of raising such questions demands that each carefully think through this new
movement and the criticism now raised against it.

J. H. Shackelford
Davidson

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

ARE PROFESSIONAL ATHLETIC TEAMS consistent with the purposes of Davidson College? In two sports, football and basketball, athletic scholarships with
special privileges are given to some 60 men. These special privileges include the ability to keep a car on campus,
no grade-point average to keep such a grant, and slightly lowered admissions standards. This amounts to hiring athletes for four
years of service. Is this a legitimate use of scholarship funds at a school with the high reputation of Davidson
College? Evidently, the Visiting Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools did not think so.

“HEY HARRINGTON! Why raise a fuss over ‘paid athletes’? Those men are good guys, aren’t they? Some of them are
your good friends and the coaches are all right, too. The school gets good publicity, alumni give a wad of
bread for winning football and basketball teams. Why worry whether these guys are really professionals?”

PROFESSIONAL ATHLETES ARE GOOD GUYS. So are most of the coaches. And big-time athletic teams are an integral part of
many campuses. And the question naturally arises, ‘Why not at Davidson also?’ The editor of the student newspaper at Notre
Dame University, Steve Feldhaus, made a few comments that partially answer this question. These comments were quoted in The Charlotte
Observer, Monday, March 7th issue: “It is my feeling and that of other influential students I know here that big-time
athletics perhaps doesn't have a place in a major university. You begin to question the effects of heavy pressure being
put on athletes in an academic community. You wonder whether we could function as an academic community while some students
are spending five or six hours a day on football. But they (sports) should be used to develop the individual.
I feel where there is too much emphasis on a sport, it is detrimental to a person.” Steve Feldhaus said
that this applied to “any sport where the student is pressured to devote himself exclusively to a sport and not
receive the education he came to the university for.”

I AGREE, STEVE. And there are other reasons to oppose big-time athletics, paid athletics at Davidson. Why not professional athletics
at Davidson, the answer is clear and simple. Davidson is a small liberal arts college dedicated to the quest for
truth, seeking men of the highest caliber for its student body. Selecting men and paying them for their athletic ability,
instead of for their intellectual potential, is inconsistent with the purposes of this college. This is an age when more
than ever we Americans need men of deep and mature intellectual insight and ability. Because this nation is the guardian
of Western values, we Americans have the responsibility to meet the problems of this age. In this country, we look
to our colleges and universities to turn out such men to guide us through what seems to be a dark
future. This is the first and only major task of our universities. Professional athletic teams are not germane to educational
institutions. Professional athletics belong to the realm of entertainment, not of education.

THE VISITING COMMITTEE of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools paid a visit to this campus last Nov. 14-17.
Their report touched on the problem of athletic scholarships and preferential treatment (admissions) for football and basketball players. The Visiting
Committee Report flatly stated its agreement on these points; first, that athletic scholarships were not in keeping with the stated
purposes of Davidson College; second, that the Living Endowment Fund was not a wise source for such scholarship aid. Accordingly,
the Visiting Committee Report recommended that athletic scholarships be abolished. At seven different places in their report, the Visiting Committee
stated their belief that athletic scholarships and the resulting professional athletic teams were inconsistent with Davidson’s high purposes.

I AGREE. The time has passed when Davidson could afford the luxury of professional athletic teams. The cost is too
high; not so much the financial cost, but the cost in human resources and the cost to our purpose and
our responsibility to this nation. These questions I add and trust you will address to the administration: When will you
end Davidson’s commitment to big-time athletics and abolish athletic scholarships? If you are not going to abolish athletic scholarships and
preferential treatment for prospective athletes, then how do you justify professional athletics at Davidson College? And more importantly, how can
you justify asking students, alumni, and the Ford Foundation to give this college money for the urgent educational needs of
the future when you, administration and trustees and faculty (by your silence), are pushing ahead on an expensive program of
professional athletic teams? You owe us an answer — and soon.
