PAGE SIX

MARXIAN ECONOMIST: THE DAVIDSONIAN

Philosopher McMullan

The Sigma Chis bagged the top position in the Sack Race while the Phi Delts and Phi Gams hobbled along
behind. Greek Week chairman David Wade said happily, "I was pretty satisfied. The weather wasn't too good, but otherwise things
went pretty well." Reflecting earlier IFC punishment of hazing infractions, he said, "I don't think there was too much going
on, especially in the fraternities that had been warned. The other houses were pretty careful just in case."

Dr. James G. Martin tossed his Republican hat into the ring for the Board of County Commissioners on Monday. "I
hope I can make some special contribution in the field of education. This is a key subject for the attention
of the commissioners, as witnessed by the recent news items on the county school budget. My particular interest is to
support sound proposals for improving the quality and scope of our county’s school system. Other than that I don’t have
a specific platform right now, and I certainly don't pose as a crusader, as yet. My main concern is to
try to fulfill a personal responsibility to get into local government. For the present, I intend to do a lot
of listening. This will mean a lot of work this summer."

Since joining the faculty in 1960, Martin has been active in county activities, currently serving as president of the Davidson
Community Council (an agency sponsoring recreation), treasurer of the West Davidson Baseball Club, and he plays the tuba in the
Charlotte Symphony Orchestra.

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Editor

What is needed in this war-torn world is a thorough social revolution. What is more, the people of the world
are beginning to realize it. This is the view of Marxian economist Paul M. Sweezy. Speaking in chapel Tuesday, Sweezy
presented a bleak picture for the "Future of Capitalism." Sweezy’s point revolved around the fact that "four centuries ago, the
most powerful nations in the world conquered it and then proceeded to loot it." They took out all the gold
and silver, exploited the natives, and then brought in slaves from other parts of the world, ruining those civilizations. The
result has been that there are a few highly developed countries and the rest of the world is underdeveloped. And
this is all the fault of the powerful nations.

The startling realization is that such people identify with the Communistic and socialistic nations, who sympathize with their problem. They
look to the rapid economic development of Communist China, and then to the impending food shortage in capitalistic India. "They
realize the need to escape from their capitalistic, imperialistic prison."

Furthermore, the late advances in health have been exported to the underdeveloped countries which before had a high birth and
death rate. The result has been that the death rate has dropped considerably, and the birth rate has remained unchanged.
Thus, overpopulation has become a problem. Foreign aid merely maintains the unpopular, unrepresentative governments already in power, which are either
incapable of or disinterested in development. "The purpose is to keep the status quo."

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966

Dr. J. G. Martin

Greek Week Schedule

Beta, KA
5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. [KA House]
The Venturas

ATO
12:00-3:00 a.m. [The Outrigger]
Chester Mayfield—The Casuals

Beta, KA
11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. [Moose Lodge, Concord]
The Venturas

Kappa Sig, SAE
10:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m. [American Legion Post, Cornelius]
The Rogues, The Coasters

Pika
12:00-4:00 p.m. [VFW, Mooresville]
The Cavaliers

Pi Kap
11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. [Lake Lynn Lodge, Concord]
The Tams, The Impacts

Phi Delt
11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. [Cornelius]
The In-Men, Ltd.

Fiji
12:00-4:00 a.m. [Hager’s Fish Camp, L. Norman]
The Caravelles

Sigma Nu
12:00-4:00 a.m. [Charlotte]
The Originals

SPE
11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. [Vance Motor Inn, Statesville]
The Shantellas

Sigma Chi
11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. [Flounder Inn, Kannapolis]
The Magnificents

Saturday

ATO
12:00-6:00 p.m. [McGuire home, Lake Norman]

KA
2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. [Commodore Peninsular]
Harry Deel and The Galaxies

SAE
2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. [Harris Lake, Concord Rd.]
The Monzas

Sigma Nu
2:00 p.m. [Outrigger Island]

SPE
2:00 p.m. [Al’s Camping Area, L. Norman]
Juke Box

Sigma Chi
2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. [Derby Day, near Davidson]

ATO
11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. [American Leg. Post, Cornelius]
The Impacts

Beta
11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. [Boyle’s Cabin, Hy. No. 73]
The Rhythmics

KA
11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. [The Barn]
The Rogues

Kappa Sig
9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. [C'p Thunderbird, near York, S.C.]
The Monzas

Pika
12:00-4:00 a.m. [Mecklenburg Hotel, Charlotte]
The Monzas

Pi Kap
11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. [Outrigger]

By AL VARNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Why have giraffes? For one who thinks about it, that may be an awfully good question. And it's a question
Dr. McMullan of Notre Dame, philosopher, theologian, and scientific theorist all rolled into one, posed to the student body yesterday
in chapel.

Educated at Catholic University in Belgium where he received his PhD, McMullan has been a visiting professor at a number
of universities across the country and has spoken on quantum mechanics, Galileo, and, as he did here at Davidson, on
Teilhard de Chardin, a French scientist-philosopher who died only a few years ago. Dr. McMullan is interested in Chardin’s evolutionary
philosophy which was revealed in Chardin's book "Phenomenon of Man."

According to Dr. McMullan, this book is very hard to understand and perhaps that is why Dr. McMullan’s talk was
so hard to understand. To McMullan, Chardin’s theory of evolution, which was never made particularly clear in the talk, is
basic to philosophy as well as to science.Harbor. Cornelius | The Nomads Closed Friday as the pledge compe- | commented
about the week, "It Chip Bellamy, sophomore Phi | Darwinian schools and offers a Phi Delt 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. |
Airport VFW, Charlotte The Skylarks Open tition ended with the Pledge | wasn't really what I expected. Gam, pointed to
improvements | much more unified concept, not Fiji 12:00-4:00 a.m. Hager's Fish Camp, L. Norman | The Pagans Closed Regatta.
I liked the way they handled in the entire pledge program | only of the past, but also of the
SAE 8:00 p.m.-12:00 p.m. | Harris Lake, Concord Rd. The Rhodes Scholars Open Larry Slade, Richard Bagby, it at the
Sig house.” such as cleaning up and paint- | present and future. Sigma Nu -12:00 a.m. | Outrigger Island None
Closed and John Frick steered the KA | They didn’t give us too much ing in the fraternity house, re-
| In regard to the future, Mc- SPE -2:00 a.m. | Al's Camping Area, L. Norman | Juke Box Closed
dreadnought to victory in the head. The stuff we did was quired faculty visitation, and in- | Mullan feels the
importance of Sigma Chi 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. | Flounder Inn, Kannapolis Dr. Feelgood and The Interns | Closed event held
at Lake Norman. constructive. We worked a lot creased emphasis upon scholar- | Chardin is that he advocates Sunday The
Phi Delts and the Pikas | around the house which I ship and school leadership. “looking” and “seeing” the gen-
Beta, KA, Kappa Sig, The Fabul finished second and third. liked.” eral direction of history which Phi Delt, SAE 2:00
p.m.-5:00 p.m. Not Announced The Fabulous Five Open The ATO's pulled to a number McMullan Takes Unique Ap- is causing
man and society to Pika 2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Lake Norman None Closed one finish in the Bat Race, proach to
Chardin progressively more complex. followed by the Kapps and the For County Position McMullan mentioned Char- Phi Gams. din’s concepts
of the “super- soul” and the “Omega Point,” then concluded by mentioning Chardin’s relevance to theology. He suggested that in
100 years, the only things that will remain from the Phenomenon of Man are its theological implications. These pertain to
the incarnation of Jesus Christ and his relationship to man and nature. In essence, McMullan believes that philosophy, science, evolution
and theology are intrinsically united and that the nature of Jesus Christ must be re-examined in light of the recognition
of this unity.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads —
CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd. 1600 MONTFORD RD.

The grey-haired economist then answered those who defend capitalism by pointing to the aggressive foreign aid programs. “From 1870 until
the outbreak of World War I, Britain ex- ported capital to the underde- veloped world at a rate of 4.5
percent of its national income. The United States has never come close to this figure. In fact, the highest percentage
of national income ever exported by the United States was 2.7 percent in 1957. The average for the past 15
years has been 1.5 percent.”

Draft Board To Outline Student Draft Status

Representatives of the North Carolina Selective Service System will outline the requirements of colleges in reporting student grades and class
standings to local draft boards, at a meeting at N. C. State on April 22. Registrar F. W. Hengeveld said
that Davidson had received only one official indication that class standings would be required by local draft boards. At that
time no specific grades or standings were specified. He said definite instructions would be outlined at the meeting. When asked
if Davidson College had made a policy decision as to whether they would withhold grades and class standings if so
asked by a student, Hengeveld said, “If a student requests this we shall probably abide by his wishes.” In further
response to this question he quoted the following paragraph from the Spring 1966 issue of the Newsletter of the American
Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers: “But the Selective Service System must have information on which to make its
judgments, and institutions which do not make the effort to furnish the needed information are reminded that in the absence
of institutional information, Selective Service boards will have to proceed with classification on the basis of whatever information they are
able to obtain.” Hengeveld further emphasized the importance of supplying grades and said it was in the best interest of
each student to have such information sent to his local draft board.

TEACHERS GRAB SMOKE IN CHAMBERS STORAGE ROOM

German teachers Hansford Epes (left) and Tom Pinkerton take a break in the new German seminar room on the third
floor of Chambers. The room is used for German seminars, book storage, and a lounge for German students. Dr. E.
O. Wruck has received a quantity of books from the West German government to stock the barren shelves in this
picture. The conditions that had to be met for receiving these books were that such a room as this must
be established where the books could be stored and used outside of the library.

For a Soft Drink or a Full Dinner—The perfect place to come during Frolics 10 Percent Discount To D. C.
Students

SHONEY’S Home Of The 62

ELK’S RESTAURANT U.S. 21 By Pass Mooresville

PIZZA BOY Three Locations To Serve You! 800 E. Morehead 3400 Plaza 3700 E. Independence Blvd. Tel. 662-9411 Open Seven
Days a Week

TASTEE SUB Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches Small and large 50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
TASTEE FREEZ MOORESVILLE

Plus Dave Clark 5... The Animals “GET YOURSELF A COLLEGE GIRL” Both In Color

Your First life insurance policy, however small, can lay the foundation for lifetime security. We specialize in this service. For
a head start on the right road to Financial Independence, compare before you buy. See us— The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
Insurance Company “Because there IS a difference!” R. T. Stone North Main Street—Davidson 892-1424

For Golf, or just goofing. Our 54th Year Your All-Season Jacket HOUSE OF FAMOUS BRANDS John Mack & Son CALL
523-8075 FOR RESERVATIONS

LONDON FOG Mooresville, N. C.
