FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1966 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

(‘Homey Atmosphere’ sd, (Staff Photo by Thel)

JOHN RUFFIN, CLASS OF 1965
Davidson Grad Leads Sing Out 66’ers Hope Of A New World

“Sing Out 66,” a traveling musical group consisting of high school and college young people, invaded Chambers Auditorium Monday evening and won the heart of the Davidson student, as long as they were singing and not talking. Presently touring this area, “Sing Out” sent half of its entourage to Davidson to give a taste of its full two-hour concert Wednesday night at the Charlotte Coliseum.

Seventy-five singers and musicians presented an hour of original songs praising the virtues of freedom and courage. John Ruffin, a 1965 graduate of Davidson, introduced the group and gave a brief background of the traveling group. The group was formed at a Moral Re-Armament Conference of approximately five thousand young people held at Mackinac Island, Mich. in the summer of 1965. The purpose of the conference “to end dictatorship and give birth to freedom for all men; to end pacifism and give birth to a fighting spirit; to end racial violence and give birth to a nation that speaks with a united voice”—gave birth to “Sing Out,” as the chorus was organized and produced by professional entertainers and staffed by volunteers from the conference.

A secondary purpose of “Sing Out” is to present a new image of American youth to audiences throughout the world. The group has presented shows at the New York World’s Fair, in the Watts section of Los Angeles, at the Washington Hilton Hotel, to students in Japan and to American troops in Korea.

Following the concert a coffee hour was held in the Union at which students had a chance to meet and talk personally with members of the cast. The “Sing Out” cast showed in their talk the same devotion to the cause which was expressed in their songs. The intense young men and women denied having any political, religious or economic philosophy but believed instead that Moral Re-Armament is larger than any such philosophy and would provide the means for social rehabilitation. Based on the tenets of love, justice, unselfishness and purity, the Moral Re-Armament movement is worldwide with especially active organizations in Japan and the neutral nations.

By their performances in Korea and Japan, some members of “Sing Out” felt they had an active role in the establishment of the recent Japanese-Korean treaty. Some also stated that they had received invitations from U.S. military authorities to visit and entertain American troops in South Viet Nam.

Four Students Display Paintings In Charlotte

Four Davidson students have 15 paintings and drawings on display at the Charlotte Public Library during the month of March. Ranging from realism to abstract expressionism and pop, most of the work comes from members of the advanced studio class, according to Douglas Houchens, associate professor of fine arts. Included also are two drawings by Nat Heyward, made during his first month in the basic studio. One of Heyward’s drawings called “Gesture Study” was accepted for the 1965 Annual Exhibition of Drawings by American Artists at Appalachian State Teachers College in Boone. Several paintings by Louis Hill, Woody Coleman and Daniel Goytia following Christmas themes were displayed at the Mutual Savings and Loan Association last December. “Christmas Confections,” an abstract oil by Goytia, was awarded the second prize. Another of Goytia’s works, “Flying Mask,” was included in the recent Piedmont Graphics Exhibition at the Mint Museum in Charlotte.

Jewish Chaplain To Speak

Rabbi Rubenstein, chaplain to Jewish students at the University of Pittsburgh, will speak in chapel Monday. Rubenstein is also director of the B’nai B’rith Hillel Foundation and is lecturer in the humanities and French existentialism at Pitt. He is recognized as an expert on the works of Albert Camus. Rubenstein has lectured widely in the United States and Europe. He was the first American Jewish theologian to lecture behind the Iron Curtain, speaking at Catholic universities in Warsaw and Krakow. After his chapel speech Monday, Rubenstein will appear at a coffee hour in the Union and will visit several classes. He will lecture Monday night on “The Death of God Theology: A Jewish View.”

The Rev. John Brown, pastor of Ginter Park Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Va., will speak in Vespers Sunday on “The Church Is For Sinners.” A native of New York, Brown is a 1937 graduate of Davidson. He has been chaplain at Union Theological Seminary and has been on the faculty of North Carolina State University. Brown has also served as pastor of churches in Shelby, West Raleigh and in South Boston, Va.

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Editor

A small, unpretentious booth in Davidson’s only Main Street restaurant is an unlikely place for an orchestra scherzo to be written. But in the simple cafe during two months of last year, Professor David Richey composed his lively work, which was performed by the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra in December. Mrs. Margaret Pratt, sole proprietor, hostess and head waitress of the College Restaurant, smiles as she thinks of Professor Richey’s composing his scherzo right in her own cafe. “That’s what we've been trying to promote,” pointed out Mrs. Pratt, “—a real homey atmosphere.”

“This is a family business, with my husband and daughter helping out, and we sort of like a quiet, homey environment,” she remarked happily, as she poured a steaming mug of coffee. The service is fine, too. Mrs. Pratt enjoys talking and joking with the students who come in, “mostly the regulars, you know.” The booths and tables are close, and during the winter the windows are almost always steamed over; both contribute to the warmth of the old building.

DEEP INTEREST

Mrs. Pratt has a deep interest in the students, perhaps because her own son is just out of school and in the Army. “I always ask the boys if they are looking after their studies,” she said seriously.

(Staff Photo by Thel)

SING-OUTER SPEAKS OUT
Object Of Talk Is Bill Alexander (R)

‘Sing-Outers’ Promise

John C. McKinney, chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Duke University, will...speak in chapel Tuesday on “The Changing South.” McKinney received his AB degree from Colorado State College, and his MA and PhD degrees in sociology at Michigan State.

William R. Cozart, assistant professor of English at California Institute of Technology, will be guest speaker in chapel on Thursday. He will speak on “the impact of the scientific revolution on the post-modern imagination and the meaning of being in college during such an age as ours.” Cozart is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Texas where he was an active participant in music and drama clubs. He received both his MA and PhD in English from Harvard Graduate School where he held a Danforth Foundation Scholarship. After graduation, he taught one year at Norfolk State Prison. For several years he was an instructor in English at Mundelein College in Chicago. While there, he appeared frequently on educational television programs, including a modern dress version of Sophocles’s “Antigone.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

GASKEY & NEILL FLORIST & GIFTS
Phone 662-3681
383-385 N. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.

Richard Rubenstein, * . & Fagg, Frey, Gift, Kaylor, Long, McKelway, Mitchell, Orr, Pervades Restaurant

“because I know it’s hard.” When asked if she noticed any changes in the type of boys over the years, she laughed, “Yes, they didn’t have all those beards and long hair a few years back. But I know that’s the style now, and I guess you can't really say too much about it.”

She hasn’t seen any change in manners and courtesy, however. “The boys who come in are always nice and don’t give any trouble. Davidson boys have always been nice, though, and we never expect trouble. It’s almost like they’re at home.” The only change is in the appearance. “Years ago they all wore neat clothes,” she continued, “with creased pants and all. But now they come in with shirttails flying.”

Mrs. Pratt buys her food locally, “So it’s all fresh and is cooked in a home-style way, simple, but hot and good.”

DISCOUNT
A little known fact is that Mrs. Pratt offers a 10 percent discount to her regular college customers. They merely sign their tickets and pay weekly or monthly. She said that she would like to extend the offer to more students if more could get to know about it.

The big rush night at the College Restaurant is Saturday, when the fraternities and the Union dining rooms are closed. “That's when we fill up, and I’m sorry if they have to wait, but I haven't got but one other waitress, beside my daughter and me,” she explained.

“We’ve had our share of VIPs to eat here,” she went on. “Rep. (Charles) Jonas was here last year, and just a few weeks ago Charlie Scott and his family were here with Coach (Lefty) Driesell.” She said she just laughed at one boy who told her she should have his autograph—he’s Bill Workman and is now singing with an opera in New York.

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Fogleman
Lester
Purcell
Bliss
Gable
McMillin
Welsh
Brown, E. E.
Griffin
Nelson
White, H. E.
Crittenden
Johnson, N. M.
Outlaw
White, L.
Driesell
Kelton
Pinkerton
Williams, R.

The following professors will be at the fraternity open houses below after vespers.
PHI DELTA THETA
Patterson, W. B. and Polley.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Gill, Hengeveld, Puckett, Roberts, Schenck, Terry, Williams, G. and Woods.

SIGMA CHI
Bernard, Blackwell, Brinkley, Crawley, Epes, Fraley, Gallent and Jackson.

(Staff Photo by Olson)
MRS. MARGARET PRATT
“It’s Almost Like They’re At Home”

Film Friends Present Art Flick ‘The Brig’
The Brig will be presented Tuesday by the Film Friends as the third in its series of special films this semester. The Brig first appeared recently as an off-Broadway play. Because the play closed for lack of funds, the movie was made in the theater itself before the set was dismantled. The movie, which has no plot in the usual sense, is an examination of man's inhumanity to man and of man's basic sadism.

The director of the movie, Jonas Mekas, will make an appearance at Davidson next month to discuss the film. Mekas is a well-known lecturer and leader of a new movement in films who is appearing in this area for the first time. He will bring several films with him to illustrate his talks. Jean-Paul Sartre, famous French author, is an ardent admirer of The Brig. It has also received reviews in such pa-

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414

If communications were good enough you could stay in the sack all day
Moving your body around is highly inefficient. If communications were perfect, you would never have to. Of course, you would still have to get exercise. But that’s your problem. We want to make it easier for you to contact people, learn, get information, attend lectures, and hold meetings. We developed Picturephone* service so you can see as well as talk when you call. And be seen, too. We introduced Tele-Lecture service (two-way amplified phone calls) to let you hear lecturers in distant locations. And so you could ask them questions no matter how far away they were. Right now, many students can dial from their dormitories to a language lab. Soon a student will be able to dial into a computer thousands of miles away to get information for his courses. Depending on the nature of the information, he might get his answer back audibly, printed on a teletypewriter, as a video image, or a facsimile print. Some of these services are available now. Others are being tested. For the next week or so, better get a move on.

* Service mark of the Bell System
Bell System
American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies