/ The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

One Step Forward

While headlines tell of such daring innovations as a bus for taking freshmen to Queens and a spot box for the entire student body, the Student Council is quietly embarking on a project that has been promised by aspiring candidates for years, but without any concrete results. The project, a student-conducted faculty evaluation, promises a significant step forward in student participation in the academic life of the college. The evaluation will poll students for opinions of professors’ teaching methods and effectiveness, after which the tabulated results will be available to individual professors. Except for those involved in the actual coordination of the project, the professors alone will see the results and no possible embarrassment could come to him.

Other schools have adopted a number of different plans for faculty evaluation, including printed books which are made available to all students, giving frank evaluations of every course and every professor. The council is wise to have started its program on a less ambitious, if more realistic, plane. Hopefully, when this experiment is well off the ground, later councils can expand the program to offer information to students as well as faculty.

Because of the confidential nature of the planned report, there is no excuse for any professor’s refusal to cooperate with the council; indeed, to do so would be to indicate an intransigence that has no place in the atmosphere of a modern educational institution. Just as important is the need for student cooperation. The report will have no place for petty personal complaints against professors for low grades and the like.

Towards A Christian Orientation

With vespers gone, the college is doing nothing officially to explore the meaning of the Christian faith and its applications to today’s world. While the vesper service was in reality more a symbol of the college’s Christian commitment than an actual forum for thought and debate, it occasionally brought in free-thinking individuals who had escaped traditional lines of thought.

But in the meantime, there has developed since last spring a meaningful avenue of thought provocation on the school’s role as a Christian liberal arts college. Concerned members of St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, many of whom are connected with the college as employees but who as a group are independent of the school, have produced a number of programs raising vital questions about the nature of a church-related college. A reading of W. B. Yeats’ The Resurrection provided last week the focal point of a discussion to mark the church’s latest venture into questioning Davidson’s role in the twentieth century. But the play was only the latest in a number of programs that have included a debate among four faculty members, a series of sermons directed towards the academic life and another play.

As an independent group, the church is free to explore a number of sensitive areas that a college-sponsored program might shrink from. Until and even after the college determines the outward form its Christian commitment will take, St. Alban’s is performing an invaluable function to the community as a whole in helping it to orient itself to today’s world.

Into The World

One of the most valuable aspects of a liberal college education comes in the opportunity to meet outside figures brought in for speeches and questioning. Such programs as the Reynolds Lectures and the YMCA Forum bring to Davidson diverse individuals who can pronounce ideas rarely heard at parochial Davidson.

But the effectiveness of such speakers has often been wasted, for reasons such as inadequate planning and scanty publicity. Last year’s Y Forum, entitled “Prospects for Man,” brought viewpoints of outstanding figures from the fields of news-politics, economics, theology and religion-literature. Spaced throughout a semester, each speaker approached the problem from his respective viewpoint in order to allow students to gain a synthesized perspective of the next 50 years. Yet, few community members were aware of the basic continuity of the four different speakers; each appeared as “just another chapel speaker.”

Davidson could multiply the effectiveness of its speakers immensely by sponsoring a symposium, bringing a number of speakers to the campus during a concentrated period, to speak on and discuss a central theme. Last year these columns pointed to such a program as an effective means of removing the “deadly cloak of provincialism” for which the college is sometimes known. Other Southern schools, such as Virginia Tech, Vanderbilt, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, Emory and UNC-CH have hosted figures such as Roy Wilkins, Norman Thomas, Barry Goldwater, John Kenneth Galbraith and Tom Woolfe for symposiums on vital topics—race relations, Viet Nam, America’s global challenge and American conservatism.

The problems of planning and coordinating such a program are staggering, and to be successful work on the program must begin immediately for a symposium to be held in 1968. Sought-after speakers plan their engagements months in advance. One Reynolds Lecturer visiting here last spring, when asked to recommend possible speakers for the 1966-67 year, could list none that would be available less than a year in advance. The problems are compounded in trying to bring several speakers at the same time. Not only are speakers difficult to secure—they are also expensive. While the Y is the likeliest group for sponsoring and organizing such an event, they have not the financial resources to make such an enterprise successful. Reynolds Lecture funds, if they could be merged with the Y program, could be much more effectively utilized to the benefit of the entire college community.

It makes little sense to have a number of different organizations competing for speakers, when they could, by coordinating dates and speakers, make each speaker much more meaningful.

Equality For All

The anti-discrimination cause has reached a new pinnacle (or depth, depending on one’s viewpoint). An Associated Press story told last week of a growing dissatisfaction in the female branches of the Army over the seeming lack of opportunities for advance. Will there soon be Gen. Uplift? the article asked, referring to the fact that women army officers may not presently advance past the rank of major. Now we're all for equality—if men can be generals, let’s allow the women the same privilege. After all, isn’t discrimination by sex outlawed these days? But then, why stop there? The women are all for gaining an equal footing in the armed forces, so let’s give it to them. Not only should they be able to reach the top, they should have the experience of starting from the bottom, including the privilege of being drafted. There is certainly nothing that uniquely qualifies males for such clerical tasks as typing and filing. There are millions of draft-age young women floating around just looking for an opportunity to serve their country in such capacities. And besides, what better place could there be for meeting eligible young men?

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Freshmen Defend Subsidized Athletics

Dear Editor:

After reading the editorial “Time For a Change,” which advocates the policy of switching to a non-subsidized athletic program, I am hardly convinced that such a change would “be a major step in making the college one of the most outstanding liberal arts schools in the country.” In the first place, Davidson already has that status, and is undoubtedly THE outstanding liberal arts college in the South.

Furthermore, there are several advantages of a subsidized athletic program which we would lose if the switch were made to a non-subsidized program. First, the present program produces a great deal of school spirit, which in turn produces a high student body morale. The present program, including the basketball and football teams which have reached “heights undreamed of ten years ago,” has produced this spirit, for we have entered into “big-time” athletic competition, certainly far more exciting than the competition of a non-subsidized program. If we were to enter into “small-time” competition student interest and attendance would decline, thus crippling a large part of the morale.

Another loss we would encounter by entering into such a program is the tremendous amount of favorable publicity received from the success of the teams, mainly basketball. If Davidson is to grow, it must continue to receive publicity, which could not be produced by a non-subsidized athletic program.

A third advantage of the subsidized program is the gate received from the games in Charlotte. There is a near-capacity crowd at all the basketball games played in Charlotte, and sellouts at many of them. If a non-subsidized athletic program were to go into effect, the competition were on a lower level, attendance would decline at these games, and a considerable amount of money would be lost. In order to grow, Davidson needs money, and the present athletic program is one source.

I must admit that I can come up with no alternative to the proposal, but I feel that such a step is unnecessary in order for the school to grow. It is my opinion that it would not be as beneficial to the school as it would be harmful.

MAC DAVIS
Davidson College

Dear Editor:

I am a freshman football player on an athletic grant-in-aid and wish to say that I feel scholarships are a necessity if Davidson is to field respectable athletic teams in the future. I do not think that these scholarships are detrimental to the progress of Davidson. The day of the “dumb bruiser” getting a scholarship is passed, especially at Davidson. For a guy to get a scholarship at Davidson today he must be an outstanding student as well as an above average athlete, and the scholarship is not granted until the athlete is accepted by the college. Several of the guys on our team could have gone to the big universities for more money than they are receiving here at Davidson now, but they, like myself, wanted to be a part of the unique combination of academic excellence and a growing athletic program.

I am proud to be a part of the growing football tradition at Davidson College, and hope that the trustees will see the contribution that athletics has made to the college, and will appropriate money in order to continue to attract the student-athlete to Davidson. I hope that since 42 percent of this year's freshman class failed the athletic proficiency test, the Admissions Office will think twice about taking the egghead over the student-athlete.

TOMMY NORWOOD
Davidson College

Ward Advocates Prohibition End

Dear Editor:

My fellow countryman, Bernard Hollowood, once referred to Davidson students as Titans of the Great Society. One of the powers of a Titan is that he should be able to resist temptation, so why not have a bit of tempting? Let’s face it, Davidson, the place where anything you do twice is termed tradition, is not exactly the mecca of social activity. Nor is it really a den of vice and iniquity. I mean, to say a Hootenanny, pleasant as it may be for the aspiring Bob Dylans amongst us, is hardly likely to make you burst out into a cold sweat of deep-rooted enthusiasm, is it? So, Devils of the Deep, arise!—I dare you to tempt me. Why not a Communist society, or maybe John Birch or a Hitler youth movement? At least we can throw things at them in place of those incessant Beanie cap raids.Why not a branch of the Ku Klux Klan: we can all dress up for that. There really ought to be a bit more to release the hidden desire in many of us to become a Red Guard. I feel we could make a start by getting rid of that unspeakable prohibition law: sure it’s fine for the D.A.R. and the Temperance Society—but for us Titans? No, no, better we allow the infernal liquid on campus. And to Hell if some of us find we're not so Titanic.

ROGER WARD
Richardson Scholar
Davidson College

Seamans Blasts ‘Dixie’ Ban

Dear Editor:

Although I realize full well the danger of not being taken seriously by writing letters to the editor too frequently, I must nonetheless speak out on a topic that has affected me personally since the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. I refer to the absence of the playing of ‘‘Dixie’’ during the first time-out of last week's Furman-Davidson football game, which Davidson (significantly?) lost.

I have been a member for three years of the band which has traditionally played ‘‘Dixie.” At first, I too was grossed out by the ludicrousness of it all. But then I came to realize, in my role as bandsman, that ‘‘Dixie’’ was being played not because the South will rise again, but because the strains of that tune are conducive to school spirit. To think that Davidson students cheer when ‘‘Dixie’’ is played because of repressed racism or a desire to overthrow society is to betray a gross ignorance of the thoughts and feelings of the Davidson student body (this may not be such an inaccurate portrayal of the athletic department anyway.) As the professors say, I wish to make my position abundantly clear. I applaud meaningful, substantive efforts to move Davidson into the 20th century. But why forbid the playing of ‘‘Dixie’’? The college (here I assume that the college controls the athletic department; there are those who affirm the opposite) should concentrate its efforts on wooing Negro students as assiduously as it woos Negro athletes. The college could recruit Negro faculty members, (I don’t think there’s a whiteness vow.) But why forbid something as harmless as the playing of ‘‘Dixie’’? In the word of Hal Dial, “Davidson is supposed to be a small, Southern college. Now it's just a small college. What will it be next: just a college or just a small?”

GEOFF SEAMANS
Davidson College

Fools’ Names

By EDWARD DWELLE
Associate Editor

Fools’ Faces

A Student Voice

THE SCENE has been and will be much the same at colleges all over the United States during this academic year: a very large crowd of angry or solemn-looking young people marching or listening to a very persuasive speaker. An observer might think, especially in our day, that this gathering would be to promote the cause of civil rights. But he would probably be wrong; the civil rights cause has gotten much bigger than the campus. If my hypothetical observer were to look again he would see a large white sign, held high for all to see, reading in large red letters: A STUDENT VOICE. For the student in the higher education scene today is concerned with another kind of rights: Student Rights. The uprising at Berkeley has been over for almost two years now and its ideology is being heard even in the backwaters of higher education; the ripples from the pebble lap the edges everywhere.

I AM NOT SURE the above characterization of students is applicable to Davidson College, but the ideas of the movement have certainly reached this outpost: the president of the student body has avowed his interest in academic reform and says that he will attempt to form a committee for course evaluation; I see that, even as I write this column, Lingle Manor has invited Professor Abernethy to their quarters to speak to them on “What should be the role of students in helping to determine the policies of Davidson College?”; more importantly, there is hope that the Curriculum Committee will soon meet to begin discussions on the revision of the curriculum. It would be incorrect, however, to portray the current interest at Davidson in student responsibility as being concerned with Student Rights. There is no militant or brooding movement afoot to free the students; perhaps there should be, but unfortunately or fortunately, that is not how things are done here. More correctly, the present concern should be characterized as a hopefully continuing dialogue and discussion on the role of students in the determination of certain aspects of college policy. Even more basically, this discussion involves an examination of the relations between students and their professors: An extension of the rights and duties of self-discipline within a new framework of student self-government is the focal point of this examination.

BUT THIS INTEREST is not particularly widespread in the student body nor, some say, among the faculty. I do not intend to wave that thread-bare piece of Davidsoniana—student apathy—before our grazing, emasculated bull, known as “Davidson Tradition” in this particular column, but I do hope that some comments will stir more students and faculty to consider what roles they want to play, respectively, in the determination of college policies and what roles they want each other to fulfill. Just as importantly, I would hope that more discussion of these matters would then take place and that at least we all be more informed as to each other's particular views. I am in favor of voting student representation on the following committees: Admissions, Curriculum, Budget, Artist Series and Public Lectures, Audio-Visual, Buildings and Grounds, College Union, Debating and Dramatics, Fine Arts, Foreign Study, Fraternities, Club and Social Life, Reynolds Lectureship, Academic Scheduling, Non-academic Scheduling, Scholarships and Loans and Student Publications.

The idea of students on the committees listed above is certainly nothing new, but the possibility of their being there is perhaps more imminent now than ever before. I plan to expand my comments on this possibility in future columns.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published weekly by students of Davidson College during the school year except during examination periods and holidays.

Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
ROBBIE HOOKER
EDWARD DWELLE

News Editor:
ARCH McCALLUM

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Managing Editors:
PAUL MARION
SAM BOYTE
BILL OLSON

Photographer:
BOB TRAVERS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
CHARLES McEWEN

Assistant Managing Editors:
KERN PARKER
TOM COOK

Sports Editor:
YATES FAISON

Assistant Sports Editors:
BOB REID
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Robert Pyeatt, John McClatchey, Franklin Anderson, Marvin Ellison, Carter Fussell, Bill Graham, Bill Funderbunk, Jim Cooley, Chuck Green, John Williams, Bruce Weihe, Ken Cool, Bob Buchanan, John Barber, William Farris, Cameron Ferguson, Brodie Brown, Heyward Whetsell, Mark Wingate, Rick Saunders, Bob Stubbs, Don Sewell, Sam Aycock, Lewis Lavine, George Cretekos, Bill Cockrill, Rick Barton.

GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 26036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.