PAGE SIX

For Room

“It is with concern for the incoming freshmen and the quality of their environment that we write this letter, in
hopes that the situation for the class of 1970 and future Davidsonians will be the best possible.” So begins a
letter submitted by next year’s 22 hall counselors to Richard C. Burts Jr., dean of students. The letter asks for
financial compensation equal to full room ($220 for first-year counselors, and an additional $40 per semester for second-year counselors), and
outlines a program to make the hall counselors more effective and more active.

According to Chris Hawk, a hall counselor this year and next, Robert Currie, college treasurer, said that the proposed salary
for hall counselors is submitted by Dean Burts. Only four of the 14 junior hall counselors of this year will
be returning to do the job next year. The hall counselors are required to be at a meeting in September
the day before the freshmen arrive. This cuts off a week from a job which may be paying in that
one week over half of what a hall counselor receives in an entire year, Hawk commented. As well as dealing
in these financial concerns, a program consisting of meetings, written reports, a liaison committee, and a change in the selection
committee for hall counselors has been suggested.

Davidson Players Ready Production

The Davidson Community Players will present House by the Stable in front of St. Alban’s Episcopal Church on Thursday and
Friday at 8:15 p.m. The Community Players, who have staged one play previously, are composed of townspeople and faculty members,
according to Hansford Epes, German instructor. Dr. Frank Bliss, associate professor of English, will direct the cast composed of Dr.
Anthony Abbott, Mrs. Wilmer Welsh, Charles Lloyd, Ray McMillin, Tom Covington, and Martha Johnston. Epes called this play, which was
written by Charles Williams, “a modern mystery-morality play.” There will be an admission charge of 50 cents.

Greene Speaks To Republicans

Walter Greene, a candidate for the Republican nomination for state senator from Alamance County, spoke at the Young Republican Club's
last meeting, Tuesday. He described the philosophy that someone can live for nothing as “a false proposition.” He stated, “There
is an ever-increasing group of people who are doing nothing. The burden is on those in the ever-decreasing group who
do produce.”

According to Greene, Roosevelt and now Johnson have led the nation down the path to socialism with their welfare programs.
He reminded the audience that nothing in the constitution legalizes welfare programs on a national level. The Constitution provides for
the “general welfare,” but Greene interpreted this to mean the States and not individuals. Payments for financial compensation equal to
full room ($220 for first-year counselors, and an additional $40 per semester for second-year counselors), and outlines a program to
make the hall counselors more effective and more active.

The “myth” of great prosperity was his next target. He pointed out that our national debt is one and a
half times as large as the rest of the world combined. “Thirty-seven cents of every dollar go to taxes, and
12 cents of every tax dollar are paid as interest on the national debt.”

Changes Approved For Physical Plant

The Trustees approved yesterday plans to launch a 10-year library development plan and to air condition Little Dormitory. Acting on
the recommendation of the Visiting Committee of the Southern Association, the Trustees made plans to provide for “a new and
different kind of library that will serve the present and future needs of Davidson College.” The Trustees also stipulated that
library consultants be employed to recommend the type of library building and facilities the College should have. The Trustees urged
that the air conditioning of Little be completed “as soon as possible.” Money for the project will come primarily from
a $100,000 contribution of E. H. Little to the Ford Challenge Program.

Trustee Action Makes Changes In Personnel

Trustee action at yesterday’s meeting included several changes involving college personnel. Tom Covington will leave his position as Assistant Dean
of Students to become Assistant Director of the College Union. He will retain his position as Fraternity Liaison Officer, thereby
concentrating more of the student activity around the basis of the Union.

Faculty members who were promoted from associate professor to full professor included Frank W. Bliss, English; R. Bruce Jackson, mathematics;
John D. Kelton, psychology; Jay H. Ostwald, education and psychology; Ernest F. Patterson, economics; and Max E. Polley, Bible and
religion. Alan B. Brinkley and Philip B. Secor were moved up to associate professor of philosophy and political science respectively.
Faculty members reappointed on an indefinite basis were Anthony S. Abbott, English; Alan B. Brinkley, philosophy; R. David Kaylor, Bible
and religion; L. Richardson King, mathematics; C. Louise Nelson, economics; Thomas A. Rogerson, Spanish; Thomas A. Williams, French. John G.
Crocker, German, and M. Ray McMillin, speech, were reappointed to the faculty for one additional year. Leroy P. Percy Jr.,
AB (Yale), BA (Cambridge), was appointed an instructor in English. J. Paul Traywick, AB (Princeton), MA (Harvard), was appointed an
instructor in history.

Monday Vote To Ratify New Regulations Court

Amendments to establish a Student Body Regulations Court were approved by the Student Council Monday night. Paul Marion presented the
amendments, which provide for a permanent Student Council committee to enforce the student body regulations. The committee would be comprised
of the president of the senior class as chairman, the vice-president of the senior class as recorder, and also the
freshman advisor and the presidents of the sophomore and junior classes. The amendments, if approved, will add an entirely new
article to the constitution, giving the new court the power to “enforce the Student Body Regulations through the trial of
all violations reported to it.” Further alterations would change the wording of the constitution in Article I and Article III,
giving the new court equal powers with the Honor Court and Student Council. The amendments were read at a voluntary
chapel on Tuesday with the vote to be held next Monday.

In other business, Bill Watson, junior council representative, reported on the “new approach” to the traffic enforcement system at Davidson
handled by Assistant Dean of Students Tom Covington. The purpose of Covington's proposals were to wake up and hold books
for this picture before returning to their afternoon meditations. (Staff Photo by Olson).to change the present system from a monetary
payment of fines to a point system. In its present state, the “new approach” was criticized for being too ambiguous
in several areas, although the proposals were generally approved. Randy McKnight, who worked on the traffic problem this past year,
remarked that “if the student reads it through carefully, it should be clear enough.”

“There are two main advantages to Covington's proposals,” McKnight continued. “These are that the student no longer would have to
pay for fines, and it would no longer be necessary to show up for Friday traffic court." In the past,
those who failed to show on Friday had to pay an additional three dollar fine. “The new system is geared
to be more expedient for the student," McKnight concluded. Final approval of the plan was tabled for next Monday's meeting
at 5 p.m. so the Council members could study the new system further.

Alva Whitehead, Honor Court chairman, received approval for an increased budget to handle the publication of additional booklets explaining the
honor system at Davidson. Last year's edition of the “Honor System at Davidson” was distributed to the freshmen only, at
a cost of $130 for 300 copies.

‘Friends’ To Show Nosferatu

Nosferatu, the last presentation of the Film Friends this semester, will be shown on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Hodson
Hall. Directed by F. W. Murnau, the film has come to Davidson “highly recommended,” stated Gordon Ball, chairman of the
committee that picks the films. Based upon Bram Stoker's Dracula, it is closer to the folk-mysticism of German silent films
than with the Anglicized Transylvania superstition. There are also many interesting camera tricks for the special effects. Plans for a
short film are not yet complete.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Name
Address
City
State
Zip

— I enclose $4.00
— Bill me at $4.50

Mail to Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1966

“Great Issues Series”

School of Social Research and the Art Student’s League. He holds no degrees — a fact of which he is
proud. Rexroth now lives in San Francisco where he continues his tradition of dissent as a social critic and man
of letters, while doing a column for the San Francisco Examiner, publishing poetry and writing articles for various magazines. Playboy
magazine says of him: “Rexroth’s achievement is that he has grown up without growing old, that in mellowing he has
lost none of his intransigent vitality, that he has attained that sense of exaltation which he tries to make a
‘habit of living.’”

“And his radicalism remains as well traditionally American, ethical and humanitarian rather than doctrinaire in its impulses, a continuing radicalism
that is finally, and not at all paradoxically, truly conservative of the best qualities in American life.”

Where will you find the very latest? Tate-Brown’s Natural Shoulder Shops. Slacks in plaids, lads . . . we got
’em. Selection from a most authentic collection. $17.95

TATE-BROWN'S
CHARLOTTE
THREE NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS
DOWNTOWN * PARK ROAD * COTSWOLD—WEST MALL

SEND HER THE DAVIDSONIAN

Zip
