GW Bops ECC; SC Teams Fall

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

While Homer's Henchmen hit the comeback trail this past weekend, George Washington's harried Colonials handed East Carolina a 20-7 dousing
last Saturday to highlight conference competition elsewhere. The Pirates looked almost as feeble as Vanderbilt, as GW rolled up 265
yards total offense and 18 first downs to slap Coach Clarence Stasavich with the worst single winging of his career.
The Pirates scored in the last two minutes of play on a 61-yard pass from Dennis Young to Jimmie Adkins
to keep East Carolina from being shut out.

Meanwhile, conference king VMI fell 38-27 to a much-psyched eleven from Virginia. Cavalier Bob Davis guided an aerial attack which
netted 332 yards and Virginia's first win after three straight losses. The defeat was the Keydet's third, although they are
undefeated in the conference.

College Park, Md., was the scene of Saturday's battle between Maryland and West Virginia, but for the Mountaineers, it looked
more like they were playing in Hurt City. Quarterback Al Pastrana showed the Mountaineers not all Terrapins are slow, as
the aerial artist tossed two scoring passes and ran five yards for another score as Maryland polished off their visitors
28-9. A 22-yard field goal in the third quarter and a 26-yard run in the fourth put West Virginia on
the charts.

Meanwhile, in Williamsburg, Va., William and Mary whipped The Citadel 24-6 for the Indians’ third straight victory. Dan Darragh, who
set three school passing records and tied a fourth earlier in the season, hit end Ted Zyshowski for two TDs,
while a safety and a 53-yard punt return by safety Mike Madden accounted for the rest of the scoring. The
Citadel scored on two field goals by Jim Gahagan, one of them a 46-yarder to break a school record.

Richmond continued its losing ways against West Texas State Saturday, falling 41-7, while Tampa obliterated Furman 42-2.

BARRY ST. CLAIR STRAINS AT FINISH
Sets Course Record In Romp Over St. Andrews

BOB PRYOR SETS FOR KICK
But Duke Bumps Off Fogleman 4-0
Blue Devils Blank Booters For Second Straight Loss

Davidson suffered its second straight loss in soccer here Wednesday, losing to a powerful Duke team, 4-0. On Friday they
were defeated by St. Andrews in Laurinburg by a score of 5-1.

Coach Harry Fogleman was much more pleased with the team's performance Wednesday. He stated that St. Andrews was not really
that good, but that Davidson played poorly and was just outhustled. “We played a good game today. Their first two
goals were lucky," said Fogleman. He continued by pointing out that several boys were either absent or injured Wednesday and
weakened the team considerably. Willie Edmonds, starting fullback, quit due to academic problems, and John Flowers, another starter, was late
due to a lab. Both will be out for the remainder of the season. Bayard Miller was also sidelined with
a pulled leg muscle suffered in the St. Andrews game, and Bob Lanier was somewhat hobbled by a swollen right
ankle.

Fogleman stated that St. Andrews moved the ball very well in the middle of the field, but that they played
poorly around the goals. Fogleman stated that Duke passed well and that their superior height enabled them to get most
of the head shots in the middle. He concluded by saying, “Duke is the best team we've played.”

Davidson's next game will be in Raleigh on Tuesday against N.C. State, who is potentially the best team in the
state, according to Fogleman. On the Friday of Homecoming, Appalachian travels here for a game which has been moved to
2 p.m. to avoid conflict with the freshman football game at 3:30 p.m.

The Davidsonian
October 21, 1966
Page Five

SIGS LOSE AGAIN

The Beta win took on added significance because the KA’s beat the Kappa Sigs, 12-7, and thus practically eliminated the
Sigs from contention in the previously tight IMAC flickerball race.

For the Betas, it was the fantastic passing of tailback Jack Sherrill and a strong defense led by Mac Otts
and Jim Timmons, who intercepted two passes that built up a 24-6 lead midway in the second half. The Betas
drew first blood as a Sherrill-to-Timmons-to-Joe Rice-to-Otts play covered 36 yards for the score. The extra point was no good.
After Sherrill hit Sam Cathey for a 25-yard score, Tau Cecil Clifton took the ball over on a 15-yard run
for the score. At halftime, the score was 12-6.

Early in the second half, the Betas struck again, with Arch McCallum getting the touchdown on a 25-yard pass play.
Then they came back to score again with Tucker Dalton snagging a 15-yard Sherrill pass. The ATO defense recovered to
block all of the Beta extra point tries. The ATOs bounced back with a flicker play from Dave Hardeman-to-Clifton-to-John Hanselman-to-Geoff
Birkhead pass covering 36 yards.

The Betas registered again with a 25-yard pass from Sherrill to Cathey with 5:40 left in the game. The desperate
Taus capped a four-play drive with a Hardeman pass to David Jennings to make the score 30-18. Two minutes later,
Hardeman found Vance Hughes all alone in the center of the field and the Calhoun flash raced untouched into the
end zone, the play covering 36 yards.

Betas Bomb ATO’s
From Staff Reports

The Betas built up an insurmountable lead against the ATO’s and then held off a strong Tau closing surge to
take a 30-25 victory Thursday in a battle of unbeatens.

In the second half, the KA’s downed East I 31-23 and Cannon II 13-7 to virtually clinch the Freshman title.
East I won a forfeit over erratic Watts, but then forfeited to East II.ahead II. Cannon II swamped East II
to stay, 24-14, to wrap up frosh action. The Pikas managed to win two games for the week, thanks to
the Independents and the Pi Kapps. In overtime of the game, the Pikas lost only eight yards to the Pi
Kapps’ 17.

IMAC STANDINGS (Through Thursday's Games)
Beta 7-0
ATO 5-1
Kappa Sig 6-2
Phi Delt 4-2
KA 5-3
Sigma Chi 4-3
SAE 3-3
Phi Gam 4-4
Sigma Nu 3-5
Pi Kapp 2-5
Pika 3-6
SPE 0-5
Independents 0-7

Meanwhile, the Betas romped by the tough Machis 38-19 in their only other game this week. The Taus blanked the
Pikas 43-0 to increase their record to 5 wins and 0 defeats, one-half game behind the Betas. The Sigs, still
smarting from their first defeat in 65 games, were awarded a forfeit over the non-existent Independents. The Machis continued to
show improvement with a 28-13 routing of the Delts, who had lost only one game previously. The KA’s edged the
Nu's 27-25 and the SPE’s 25-19 to boost them closer toward fourth place. The Gam's uncovered a new tailback in
“Flash” Brannon and roared by the Pi Kapps 20-3 to snap a four-game losing streak.

FRESHMAN
Cannon I 5-1
East I 4-2
East II 3-3

LAKESIDE INN
Old Fashioned Fish Fry
Complete Party Service
Rt. 115—1st Paved Road North of Fox Drive-In Theater
596-2711 — 344-2990 — 377-2701

54 yards. Clifton scored the only PAT of the afternoon, grabbing a Hardeman pass. The Sigs led in their game
at halftime, 7-0, on a 60-yard pass from Ray Garrison to Norman Pease. Pete Ort scored the extra point by
foot. The big man for Duke was Chauncey Jubonowsky who had two goals playing the inside left position. One was
a free kick. Lemuel Tita and Elmer Lauber also tallied for the final margin. Davidson's goalies were credited with 13
saves as compared to 11 for Duke. Both teams were allowed four corner kicks. The entire Davidson team was used
in an effort to gain some experience. One of the Duke players commented that they managed to...

Tennis Clinics Lure Coach
By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

Instructional clinics and talks with international tennis figures highlighted Coach Harry Fogleman's trip to Europe this summer. “The trip had
a two-fold purpose,” said Fogleman, “in that number one, Spalding sent me over to represent them at the Wimbledon championships,
and, number two, I was to participate in some Dutch Lawn Tennis Association clinics and talks in Holland.”

Part of Fogleman’s duties as Spalding’s representative were promotional. “I met the Spalding personnel playing at Wimbledon such as Cliff
Drysdale of South Africa, Owen Davison of Australia, and America’s Dennis Ralston,” he said. Along with a six-day stay at
Wimbledon, Fogleman said he had an opportunity to visit several of the department and sporting goods stores and to meet
many of the business people of England.

Fogleman's trip became even more international when he was contacted by Polish and Soviet trainers and coaches, who had been
informed of his visit. At the request of Soviet Coach Andreev, he was asked to meet with them concerning junior-level
and college methods of coaching. Attending the conference were the vice president of the Polish Lawn Tennis Federation, a coach
and trainer of the Soviet team, and a Soviet team official. Coach Fogleman also brought out that he had been
issued an invitation to visit Poland and the Soviet Union, “but after due consideration, I turned it down. I did
find, however, that the Soviets are keenly interested in tennis and have developed several good players. They are going to
be a factor in the Davis Cup in the not too distant future.”

HARRY FOGLEMAN

Fogleman went on to France and then to Holland, where he was the guest of the Koninklijke Nederlandsche Lawn Tennis
Bond. Most of the top Dutch tennis instructors were there along with about 150 children, who had been let out
of school early for the occasion. Fogleman participated in a demonstration of mass instruction and a discussion of the American
tennis program regarding junior tennis, the junior Davis Cup, and intercollegiate tennis.

Besides the tennis program, soccer is the big sport in Europe along with golf in the well-to-do circles. “I was
impressed,” said Fogleman, “with some of the most beautiful soccer fields I have ever seen. In Rotterdam, they were almost
too pretty to play on.” Fogleman did accomplish one foreseeable objective through his trip in that he increased the interest
in the Richardson Scholarship program among budding Dutch tennis prospects. “They were extremely interested in the project,” he said, “and
they are in the process of interviewing candidates. We hope shortly to get the application of a fine Dutch student
who is also a fine tennis player.”

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The success of Fogleman’s venture is evidenced by his invitation to return to Wimbledon next summer for Spalding and to
visit their operations in Europe. He has also been invited back to Holland.

217 N. Tryon St.
Pipe Smokers
20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a
375-9723 Charlotte

AT CHAR THE PIZZA and MEET YOUR FRIENDS GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST SPAGHETTI

Hold that crease? You bet it will. If the fabric is one of the great, new permanent-press blends of 2-ply
polyester and cotton masterminded by Galey & Lord. For the new dimension in collegiate slacks, see...

ARCHER'S TEXACO AND WRECKER SERVICE
SOUTH MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N. C.
All Brands of Motor Oil
Telephone 892-9374
24-hour Wrecker Service
Former Operator of the Gulf here in Davidson

In Natural Shoulder Circles it’s Tate-Brown’s
For authentic traditional styling at its finest, Tate-Brown’s offer a most comprehensive selection. Tate-Brown’s three Shoulder Shops Davidson men are
always welcome to come in and browse. Select from our famous brands: College Hall, Madisonaire, London Fog, Weejuns, Thane, Phi
Bates, Gold Cup, Alan Paine, Corbin, Canterbury.

THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN
126 S. TRYON STREET
COTSWOLD SHOPPING CENTER
WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER
