Page Four December 15, 1966 The Davidsonian

Linked by Study, Student Protest To Permissive Parents

Collegiate Press Service

CHICAGO, Ill.—Students most likely to be active in student protests are those whose parents raised them permissively, and who have
the affluence to ignore conventional worries about jobs and status, according to a recent study by a University of Chicago
sociologist. In a study of “the roots of student protest,” Richard Flacks, assistant professor of sociology, writes, “It seems plausible
that this is the first generation in which a substantial number of youth have both the impulse to free themselves
from conventional status concerns and can afford to do so.”

PROTEST REASONS

Flacks proposed as a hypothesis that students today are active in protest because:
- They find student life highly “rationalized,” which is related to impersonality and competitiveness.
- They have been reared in permissive, democratic families, which place high values on standards other than high status and
achievement. These values make it more difficult for students to submit to adult authority, respect status distinctions, and accept the
prevailing rationalized, competitive system. Since they are “not oriented to the (prevailing) norms of achievement,” they feel less need to
accept conformity to the current crop of college students. Moreover, they can afford to be non-conformists—affluence has freed them, at
least for a period of time, from some of the anxieties and preoccupations which have been the defining features of
American middle-class social character.

They spend a long period in a university environment which, with a series of events around 1960 including Southern sit-ins
and the demonstrations against the House Un-American Activities Committee, has changed from an atmosphere of “cool” non-commitment to concern with
direct action. “A full understanding of the dynamics of the movement requires a ‘collective behavior’ approach,” Flacks comments. Finally, the
formerly disorganized “bohemian” forms of deviance have become translated, through the liberal-minded parents, into a “developing cultural tradition” into which
the activist students are socialized. A second generation of radicals is reaching adulthood, born of the radicals of the thirties,
Flacks pointed out.

BACKGROUND

Attempting to discover why the current crop of college students has developed such a strong protest movement, while students of
the fifties were noted for apathy, Flacks organized a study of the family backgrounds, political beliefs, and values of students
active in such movements. In one part of his research, he sent a crew of interviewers to talk with parents
of students who live in the Chicago area who were listed as participating in national protest groups, such as the
Students for a Democratic Society, Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee, or peace groups. The students attended 26 different colleges around the
country. Parents were asked about their own political attitudes, what kinds of values they held most strongly, and how they
had raised their children. The students themselves were also asked for their views on their parents. A group of “non-activists”
similar in such factors as economic status to the activists was also interviewed as a control.

RESEARCH REPEATED

For a second study, Flacks seized the opportunity offered by the spring sit-in at the University of Chicago’s administration building.
Students from his course in Collective Behavior interviewed 65 of those who had sat in, 35 of those who had
signed a petition opposing the sit-in, and all students living on one floor of two different dormitories. According to Flacks,
the most striking results of these studies are:

Student activists differ in terms of values and attitudes from non-activists to a high degree. He attributes the uniformity among
activists to the effects of a subculture reflecting their shared perspectives, not simply to “common personality traits or social origins.”
Parents of activists also “deviate from ‘conventional middle-class’ values and attitudes,” to a marked degree. The difference of values between
students can be directly traced to different values of their parents, Flacks believes. He contradicts “a frequently expressed stereotype of
activists students as ‘rebels’ against parental authority.” Activists are not ideologues. While they are “militant, committed, and ‘radical’ with respect
to particular issues, they are not committed to overarching ideological positions.” This point is reflected “most dramatically in their unwillingness
to describe themselves as ‘socialist’ or to endorse explicitly socialist policies,” Flacks reports.

FEW SOCIALISTS

In demographic terms, Flacks found that activists are likely to be from high-income, well-educated, professional families.

FOR CONCERT WEEKEND

The Dukes of Dixieland, featuring Frank Assunto, will present a jazz concert on the afternoon of Feb. 4. The group
will perform a combination of easy-going traditional dance band routines and modern, dynamic jazz.

East Cites New War Tactics For Curbing Red Aggression

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

“What I quarrel with is the means by which the government is trying to win in Viet Nam,” said Dr.
John P. East, 1966 Republican nominee for Congress from the North Carolina First District, in chapel today. East, a political
science professor at East Carolina College and a graduate of Earlham College, won the largest Republican vote since Reconstruction in
his district. “The goal of preventing Communist aggression and securing freedom is a laudable goal,” East said. “I commend it;
I support it.” However, he noted, “military experts have proposed a number of recommendations to bring the war to a
close, and I see no reason why we cannot win a limited war.”

In order to end the war, East suggested that the government take four actions. First, the port of Haiphong should
be closed, he said. This is conventional military strategy, and similar actions were taken during the Korean War, he continued.
The port could be blocked by sinking its dredges, by a couple of destroyers, by mining, or by sabotage. Next,
East stated that the U.S. should “destroy through daily saturated pinpoint bombing of everything made of concrete, steel, brick, or
mortar that is used in the war in the south.” Clarifying his statement, he said that bombing should not include
the civilian population. Suggesting the bombing of irrigation dikes to cut off food grown for the south, he asked, “Would
you rather destroy concrete dikes or throw away a thousand of your own countrymen each week?” Third, East asked for
bombing of the supply trails in Laos and Cambodia. This has been done, but only spasmodically. “Finally,” he said, “if
America is to be involved in a land war in Asia, then it must call on Asia’s greatest resource, people.
We cannot win under these rules,” East continued. America’s strength lies in firepower, not manpower. “We cannot wear out Chinese
machine guns with American boys,” he said. The United States must get larger numbers of Asian troops involved in the
war.

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, EDWARD DWELLE
Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE, BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Managing Editors: CHARLES McEWEN, KERN PARKER
Sports Editor: TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID
News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Photography Editor: BILL OLSON
Photographers: DON CARROLL, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: LOU HILL, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER
Contributors this week: Sam Bell, Bob Stubbs, Bob Albee, George Robinson, Jim Furr, Charles Elliott, Marvin Bethune, Lewis Lavine, George
Cretekos, Brodie Brown, Carter Fussell, Allan Lewis, Franklin Anderson, John Williams, Bill Cockrill, Robert Pyeatt, Gary Sigmon, Woodie Gleason, Joe
Jones, Marvin Ellison

Deferment Tests Slated For Spring

The draft deferment qualification examinations will be given three times next spring according to an announcement from Selective Service headquarters.
“I have not been formally notified as to whether the tests will be given at Davidson,” Dr. W. B. Hight,
director of student counseling, said this week. “I’m going to do my best to have them given here,” Hight continued.
The tests, prepared by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N.J., will be given March 11 and 31 and again
on April 8. Applications will be available from local draft boards after Jan. 20, and must be mailed by Feb.
10. More than 110,000 men took a similar examination last month. The results of those examinations will be reported to
the local boards by Dec. 19. Only men who have not taken the test previously are eligible to take it
in the spring.families from urban areas. Activists are also disproportionately Jewish, and tend to come from recent immigrant stock, his
study found. Only about one-third of the activists in the large sample of Chicago area students, however, said their political
position was "socialist," while more than half said they were “highly liberal.” Those in the "non-activist" control group were predominantly
in the “moderately liberal” class (43 per cent), with almost three out of 10 in the “moderately conservative” group and
two-tenths calling themselves “highly liberal.” While all students reported opinions more liberal than those of their parents, there was a
significant gap between the parents of activists and those of non-activists. Clearly, student activists are likely to come from liberal,
politically active families.

foreign troop commitments. Communist China can do little, according to East. Paralyzed by internal conflict, they are not capable of
war. Nor will the North Vietnamese permit Chinese troops on Vietnamese soil, for, like the Russians, the Chinese have a
tendency to stay where they are invited. He said that Communist aggression must be halted before a social or economic
revolution could take place. He also noted the presence of 30,000 U.S. troops in Thailand, and said that if the
U.S. fails in Viet Nam, it will soon find the same situation in Thailand.

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Senior Rodney Knowles pumps out that fast ounce of blood at the ROTC Blood Drive earlier this week. Student participation
in the drive failed to reach last year’s level by a considerable margin, according to Capt. J. S. Crawley of
the Military Science Department. Only 254 pints of blood were given Monday and Tuesday as compared to last spring’s total
of 330. In fraternity competition, Kappa Alpha eked out a narrow victory, with 38.7 per cent of its members donating.
Following

Davidson Ranks Third in Danforth Recipients
University of the South, College of Wooster, Earlham College, Pomona College, Wesleyan University, Carleton College, and Colgate University. Following, in
the second 10, are Denison University, St. Olaf College, University of Redlands, DePauw University, Harvard University, Yale University, Oberlin College,
University of Chicago, and Brown University.

Davidson ranks third in the nation in the percentage of its undergraduate enrollment awarded Danforth graduate fellowships, the group most
highly selected for interest and ability for college teaching. Danforth fellowships, which were established in 1951, give personal encouragement and
financial support to college seniors and recent graduates who seek to become college teachers. Students with financial need who plan
to study for a PhD can receive up to $2950 during a calendar year.

SKI BRYCE
SKI IN VIRGINIA
Virginia’s only 2500’ Double Chair Lift
2 Rope Tows for Beginners and Instruction
Student Slope Fee $5.00. Learn to ski with our team of patient European instructors. Rentals — Head Skis — Bryce
Buggy Rides. Stay in BRYCE’S bunkhouse for only $6.50 including breakfast.

Haverford College tops the list with 3.03 per cent of its enrollment elected as Danforth fellows. Williams College is Davidson
College ranked at 1.62, with 16 fellows and an undergraduate enrollment in 1962, the year selected for the study, of
989. Others in the top 10 are University

Patterson To Discuss Lack Of Preparation
Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, associate professor of economics, will discuss an aspect of Davidson's not preparing students for life after
college in the new year's first chapel Jan. 4. He declined to pinpoint a definite problem because he felt it

Complete restaurant at Base Lodge. Apres Ski Life — Plenty to do. Dancing nightly. Ice Skating. Relax around the large
pentagon fireplace at Moonshine Lodge.

TOTAL FUN
BRYCE’S MTN. RESORT, INC.
Basye, Va. 22810
Phone 703-477-3171

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub

A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year from
Gurley’s ESSO
Main and South Streets
Phone 892-9304
GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

RUSH WILSON, Ltd.
would like to take this opportunity to wish each and every one of you a Merry Christmas And A Happy
New Year
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Greenville, S.C.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036.
Phone ED 2-2414 Davidson, N.C.

FEWER DONORS GIVE BLOOD
the KA’s were members of Sigma Phi Epsilon, with 35.5 per cent; Phi Delta Theta, 30.5 per cent; and Sigma
Nu, 30.0 per cent. At the drill program Tuesday, Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, offered to raise
the number of merits given by the ROTC Department for each blood donation from 10 to 15 in an attempt
to recruit 100 more donors, but the challenge was not met. (Staff Photo by Olson)

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PRIA
(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

'TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY
I know how busy you are—studying, going to class, helping old grads find their dentures after Homecoming—but, hark, the Yuletide
is almost upon us and it’s time we turned our thoughts to Christmas shopping.

We'll start with the hardest gift problem of all: what to give the man who has everything. Well sir, here
are some things I’ll bet he doesn’t have:
1) A dentist’s chair,
2) A Mach number,
3) A street map of Perth, Australia,
4) Fifty pounds of chicken fat,
5) A pack of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades.

“What?” you exclaim, your eyebrows leaping in wild incredulity. “The man who has everything doesn’t have Personna Super Stainless Steel
Blades? What arrant nonsense!” you scoff, making a coarse gesture. But I insist. The man who has everything doesn’t have
Personna because everyone in the dorm is always borrowing them. And small wonder! Wouldn’t you be there with an empty
razor and a supplicating sidle if you heard somebody had super-blades that were super-sharp and super-durable; that scrape not, neither
do they nick; that shave you easily and breezily, quickly and slickly, scratchlessly and matchlessly; that come both in Double-Edge
style and Injector style? Of course you would! So here is our first gift suggestion. If you know a man
who shaves with Personna, give him a safe.

Next let us take up the thorny problem of buying gifts when you have no money. Well sir, there are
many wonderful gifts which cost hardly anything. A bottle of good clear water, for example, is always welcome. A nice
smooth rock makes a charming paperweight. In fact, one Christmas back in my own college days, these are exactly the
gifts I gave a beauteous coed named Norma Glebe. I took a rock, a bottle of water, a bit of
ribbon, and attached a card with this tender sentiment:

Here’s some water
And here’s a rock,
I love you, daughter,
Around the clock.

Norma was so moved, she seized the rock, smashed the bottle, and plunged the jagged edge into my sternum.

Here now is a lovely gift for an American History major—a bronze statuette of Millard Fillmore with a clock in
the stomach. (Mr. Fillmore, incidentally, was the only American president with a clock in his stomach. James K. Polk had
a stem-winder in his head and William Henry Harrison chimed the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore of all our chief
executives had a clock in his stomach. Franklin Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Taylor had 17 jewels
and Martin Van Buren ticked but, I repeat, Mr. Fillmore and Mr. Fillmore alone had a clock in his stomach.
Moreover, Mr. Fillmore was the first president with power steering. No wonder they called him “Old Hickory!”)

But I digress. Returning to Christmas gifts, here's one that's sure to please—a gift certificate from the American Society of
Chiropractors. Accompanying each certificate is this fetching little poem:

Merry Christmas, Happy New Year,
Joyous sacro-iliac!
May your spine forever shine,
Blessings on your aching back!
May your lumbar ne'er grow number,
May your backbone ne'er dislodge,
May your caudal never dawdle,
Joyeux Noel! Heureux massage!

And greetings of the season from the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, Double-Edge or Injector, and from Personna’s
partner in shaving luxury, Burma-Shave, regular or menthol.
