Page Four October 28, 1966

The Davidsanian

Steere Classifies Man

By JOE JONES
Staff Writer

“I was collected,” said Dr. Douglas V. Steere, quoting Augustine in chapel Tuesday. And men are of two kinds, collected
and uncollected, he maintained.

Professor emeritus at Haverford College, Steere said the collected man has “no time for considering, no time for leisurely reading.”
“God often has to do over again, to unsnarl, what we rush through,” he said in describing the uncollected man.

On the other hand, the collected man is marked by “all-thereness.” “He doesn’t drive with the brakes on,” said Steere.
“Firm at the center, he is free at the periphery,” due to confidence in something underneath, claimed Steere.

Following chapel, Steere answered questions about his speech and other topics. A self-avowed “existential realist,” Steere is a member of
the Society of Friends. “Existentialists almost never have an adequate philosophy of nature... but realism brings them back,” Steere said.

JULIUS GRIFFITH CHOPS Concrete Block is No Match

Three Experts To Show Techniques Of Karate

By TOM COOK
Sports Editor

Davidson students will get to see three karate experts demonstrate their specialty in Monday's assembly as part of the Intramural
Athletic Council's Expert Series.

Coming to Davidson will be Jhoon Rhee, one of the leading authorities of karate in the United States; Pat Burleson,
a member of the athletic staff of the University of Mississippi specializing in karate; and Julius Griffith, a student of
Burleson’s who is planning to open karate classes in Charlotte and is exploring the possibility of conducting classes here.

The type of karate they will demonstrate is Tae Kwon Do, which means “foot and hand” karate. Griffith explained that
the basic style of Tae Kwon Do is a kick style. “Karate is 90 percent mental and 10 percent physical,”
he said. “Most beginners are unable to notice their mental development at first. But the purpose of the sport is
to develop self-discipline. It promotes exercise through the use of all of the muscles similar to swimming. It will not
make anyone big and strong.

“It won't make you invincible, but it will give you an advantage in that it will give you a pride
in your body,” he said.

Following the assembly, Griffith is planning to discuss the possibilities at a coffee hour of setting up a karate club
on campus which would function just as other clubs on campus. He would instruct the members in the fundamentals of
the sport. The tentative price per month would be $20, Griffith said. The club would be associated with the Jhoon
Rhee Institute of Tae Kwon Do, Inc., which teaches classes for congressmen at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C.

Following the Monday schedule, Steere characterized uncollectedness on a personal level. “Living the dispersed lives that we live, our apertures
seem to get closed... like a 16 setting on a camera instead of a two.” He cited examples of “openness,”
such as taking time to enjoy the beauty of a sunset.

When asked if higher education encouraged or discouraged openness, Steere answered, “I think it’s doing both, but more hindering than
helping.” He said that he used to see boys in the stacks of the Haverford library.lying on their backs, absorbed
in a book. He added that this was no longer a common sight, yet he hesitated to ascribe its disappearance
to lack of time. Responding to a question about the use of psychedelic drugs as an aid to religious mysticism,
Steere replied, “I've never taken a trip.” “Religion is suspicious of drug-induced mysticism because the will is not taken along.
A religious mystical experience seems to affect the will,” Steere concluded.

Fletcher To Discuss Era’s New Morality

A spokesman for the current upheaval of values and mores and a State Department official will speak at chapels on
Friday and Tuesday, respectively. Dr. Joseph Fletcher, a leading figure in what has been called “the new morality,” will be
on campus next weekend for a series of talks. Fletcher, professor of Christian ethics at the Episcopal Theological School in
Cambridge, Mass., will speak first in chapel on Friday. At 8 p.m. Friday he will give an informal lecture in
the Morrison Room of the College Union, and at 11 a.m. Sunday, Nov. 6, he will give the sermon at
St. Alban’s Church.

Tuesday, William N. Turpin will speak on “Yugoslavia: From Faithful Satellite to Rebellious Heretic.” Turpin is presently working with the
Office of European Affairs in the U.S. State Department.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Sunday Night Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students from 8 to 10 p.m. this Sunday night:

Bailey
Fisher
Pinkerton
Schuessler
Bondurant
Fraley
Ratliff
Scott
Brinkley
Joans
Rhodes
Woodfin
Crawley
Ouzts
Secor

Griffith said he is hopeful of having an organizational meeting Tuesday night to determine the interest in karate on the
Davidson campus.

THEATRE, Charlotte.

The object of his life is victory over ‘birds’ — The obvious is the seduction of one pretty lass after
another .... Even Shelly Winters. “ALFIE” in technicolor now at the PLAZA THEATRE, Charlotte.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

ARMY - NAVY STORE
170 N. MAIN ST.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Phone 663-7081
Nat E. Smith

TASTEE SUB
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE

“BRING A FRIEND” SALE
SURFERS 2 FOR $5.00 (Reg. $3.98 ea.)
ALSO NEW! THE STUDENT STORE
MIX OR MATCH - YOUR PICK OF
“CRESLAN” SWEATSHIRT SURFERS
“WASH ‘N WEAR” POPLIN SURFERS
NEW! COMING & GOING SWEATSHIRTS

Davidson Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE’S
“Just up the road...”
Students, Alumni, Faculty... Have a happy homecoming!

Tate-Brown’s three Natural Shoulder Shops salute Davidson! The ties between Davidson and Tate-Brown are deep-rooted and long-lasting. The rapport unprecedented.
For all your clothing and furnishings needs visit our Natural Shoulder Shops. See the good looking “Buggy Whip” worsted slacks
by Corbin - in plaids and solid colors. From $21.95. Our collection of Gant shirts is most complete. In new,
colorful stripes and checks, as well as traditional solid colors. Exclusively ours. From $7.00.

Natural Shoulder Shops
THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN—126 S. TRYON ST.
COTSWOLD — WEST MALL
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER
