PAGE SIX

Stiffened Fingers Ripple... Twain Returns To Life

By ALLEN WESB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The American writer and humorist Mark Twain became vigorously alive again Monday night when Hal Holbrook gave his one-man presentation “Mark Twain Tonight” in Chambers Auditorium. Playing to a nearly full house, Holbrook made an uncanny transformation into the septuagenarian Twain as he recreated an actual tour performance the author made shortly before his death some 50 years ago.

Since the conception of the idea of his solo show in 1953, Holbrook has spent years perfecting his performance, visiting friends of the author, studying photographs of Twain in his seventies and making every effort to keep his impersonation authentic.

Holbrook recreates a faded daguerreotype with a high, old-fashioned lectern, a desk with a topply mound of books and a cut-glass pitcher and water, and a McKinley-era chair. Into this setting shuffles the spry, white-maned humorist in the white suit.

“Involuntary tremors ripple the stiffened fingers, the lower jaw nibbles spasmodically at wisps of tobacco-stained mustache, the shoulders twitch like marionettes in the invisible hands of time. But a pagan glint of eye suggests that this is a life less spent than well spent. Then the voice, cracked but not ruined, speaks, and the evening begins showering comic sparks.”

DEVELOPMENT

“I did this character,” says Holbrook explaining his decision to play the role, “as part of a two-person show I developed in college. At the time I didn’t know anything about Twain but I reread Tom Sawyer and got interested in his ideas.”

Holbrook later learned that Twain traveled around the country making lectures and “it seemed like the natural thing for me to do.”

Holbrook does other roles and takes vacations to avoid growing tired of the Twain role. The night before his Davidson appearance he portrayed Abraham Lincoln on “The Ed Sullivan Show” and read Lincoln's Second Inaugural Address.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

April 4. April 8.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1956

POLL RESULTS

Faculty, Students Favor Change In Future Academic Scheduling

By BRUCE WEIHE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Results of a faculty poll on scheduling last week revealed that the faculty is generally in agreement with the student body concerning possible scheduling changes. Paul Marion, chairman of the Student Council Committee on Academic Scheduling reported to the Student Council Monday night that the faculty favors proposals on abolishing Saturday classes, having first semester exams before Christmas and having spring break include the Easter weekend.

STATISTICS

Statistics of the faculty poll showed 63 percent of the faculty favoring no Saturday classes, compared with 78 percent of the student body. Concerning exams before Christmas, a greater percentage of the faculty (74 percent) was in favor of the proposal than students (60 percent).

A slight majority (57 percent) of the faculty wants spring break to include Easter, while 80 percent of the student body wants the spring break altered. Marion said that Dr. Joseph T. Drake, head of the Faculty Academic Scheduling Committee, was very receptive to all these proposals. He added, “There is a slight possibility of having no Saturday classes and the spring break changed for next year. However, there is little chance of getting exams before Christmas changed due to athletic schedules.”

ELECTIONS

In other Student Council action, Lee Fanning, chairman of the Elections Committee, reported plans for the upcoming student-wide elections. Fanning stated that there will be no rule changes in election procedures from last year, although the office of Honor Court defense attorney has been added.

Election activity will begin Monday, March 7, with a chapel address by Student Council President Bill Council explaining the elections procedure. Wednesday, March 9, will be the deadline for filing for student body offices, Honor Court, freshman advisor, Student Council and defense attorney. Election cards will be distributed the following day. Deadline for stencils of platforms will be 6 p.m., March 10.

On Monday, March 14, the elections will begin with voting for student body vice-president and secretary-treasurer, Honor Court and editors of the Quips and Cranks and Miscellany. That night there will be a forum for candidates for student body president in the Morrison Room. Voting for student body president and DAVIDSONIAN editor, and runoffs for Honor Court and student body vice-president and secretary-treasurer will be Tuesday, March 15.

On Wednesday, March 16, voting for cheerleaders, College Union president and any runoffs will be held. The following day candidates for YMCA president will give speeches in chapel. Voting for YMCA officers, freshman advisor and any runoffs will take place the same day.

FILING

Also on March 17, candidates who have lost in the previous elections and wish to run for defense attorney may file. Candidates who have lost in any election except Honor Court may file for a Student Council representation post.

Runoffs for any previous elections will be held Friday, March 18, and elections for Student Council representatives and defense attorney will be Monday, March 21. Any remaining runoffs will be held Tuesday, March 22.

PLATFORMS

Concerning the filing procedure, prospective candidates must file for elections and obtain stencils for platforms from either Lee Fanning or Bill Logan at the proper deadline.

Fanning also announced the members of his Elections Committee. Members are all seniors, one from each fraternity and four Independents, whose job it is to organize elections and publicity, to have platforms run off and distributed to the candidates and to handle balloting and counting. Members of the committee are Thom Blair, Skip Motley, Jennings Bryant, Bill Taylor, Allen Johnson, Charlie Lloyd, Woody Coleman, Dick Little, Bill Burch, Lowell Foster, Mike Richardson, Bill Aitken, Bill Logan andRob- ert Earle.

RELIGIOUS LIFE

In further Student Council business, Jim Timmons, chairman of the Religious Life Committee, reported that little solid action has been accomplished concerning reducing or abolishing required Vespers. Timmons related that Rev. Will Terry, college chaplain, favored doing away with Vespers and including a religious service in chapel every other Thursday. A more liberal chapel cut system would also be installed. Terry’s plan has, however, met with opposition from certain faculty and administration members.

PARKING

In other action, Randy McKnight, chairman of the Student Council Parking Committee, outlined a new parking ticket and driving violation system devised in conjunction with the faculty’s Traffic Committee. Details and results of the new system and the work of the committee will not be definite until next week.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. as accurate as indefatigable research can make it.

Bailey Gable Nelson Thies

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

Monday—Friday

Genuine Bliss Griffin Outlaw Welsh

Every word he speaks onstage is Twain's and every etn is genuine, according to the best recollection of people who knew the celebrated humorist or attended one of his lectures. “Mark Twain Tonight” had its first American tour in 1959 and Holbrook played in upwards of 250 cities. For 22 weeks in 1959-60 the show was the outstanding off-Broadway hit, and it might have run longer had not prior commitments prevented Holbrook from remaining in New York. Time magazine's review of Holbrook’s performance depicts best what the Davidson audience saw and heard: “The stage is

Duke UN Assembly Attracts Students

Four Davidson students—George Nzongola, Sam Johnson, John Thomas, and Tom Earnhardt—represented the Dominican Republic at the Ninth Model United Nations Assembly at Duke University last weekend. The 78 delegations were divided into committees based on actual UN committees and debated various resolutions presented by the delegates. The resolutions had to pass the committees before they were presented to the General Assembly. Freshman Sam Johnson introduced a resolution concerning the food problem in India, and it was one of three resolutions to be passed by the General Assembly.

Applicants

By BILL SEIGLER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Applications for the Project of the Americas summer educational exchange program will be accepted through March 1, according to Glenn Withrow, PRAM coordinator. Fifteen students will be chosen on a competitive basis by March 22. Applicants are expected from such schools as Davidson, Duke, Wake Forest, UNC at Chapel Hill, UNC at Greensboro, UNC at Charlotte, Tulane, Queens, and Sacred Heart. The program, which will last from June 15 to Aug. 15, is supported financially by private foundations, corporations, and individuals. Participants will have to pay only for transportation to Miami and back and for any incidental traveling after the program is over. Applications may be obtained from the PRAM office in the Union, the PRAM bulletin board in Chambers, Erskine Sproul, or Withrow. According to Withrow, students will be chosen on their abilities “to fulfill PRAM duties.” PRAM is particularly interested in students majoring in fields such as pre-med, political science, economics, history, and sociology. Withrow says that “We expect approximately 75 applicants.”

His third point was that pledges should be required to visit all brothers of their particular fraternity. Fourth, Terry said, except for such functions as pledge class projects and visiting brothers, all pledge activities should be made optional, particularly IMAC games.

Cramming Clowning Crashing Pubbing

Wrangler PERMANENT PRESS

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI CHICKEN Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches Daily Food Specials TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING Small and Large PIZZAS

Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

maison michel
217 N. Tryon St.
375-9723
Charlotte, N. C.

BOSTONIAN FLEX-O-MOCS FOR FOOT-HUGGING FIT

doclock Shirts and Slacks of 50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS

Brownstone Cordovan Black

Come To MOOR LANES

Bowling League to be formed to last 6 to 8 weeks. Trophies to be awarded for winning team or individual high game.

ON OLD STATESVILLE ROAD MOORESVILLE

You'll enjoy the comfort of this classic authentic moccasin. It’s lighter, softer, more flexible, has a genuine handsewn front seam, and is specially moulded at the heel to give you foot-hugging fit. Crafted over the combination STAG Last, too! Here’s a slip-on that stays on! You'll love ’em, for loafing!

John Mack & Son Mooresville Our 54th Year Open Friday Nights