Dr. Fowlie To Discuss New Plays

Dr. Wallace Fowlie, professor of French literature at Duke University, will speak on ‘The New French Theater’ Monday at 10:15
a.m. in the Dome Room in Chambers. A round table discussion with Fowlie on all phases of modern literature will
be held at 2 p.m. Monday in 206 Chambers.

Fowlie, author of works such as Rimbaud, Mallarme and A Reading of Proust, has held former positions at Harvard, Bennington
College, Yale, University of Chicago and University of Colorado.

“All students of drama and modern poetry should find both the lecture and discussion most interesting,” stated Dr. Francis Ghigo,
professor of French. “Dr. Fowlie,” Ghigo continued, “is recognized as an authority on modern French poetry and has done work
on German and French poetry of the 19th century.”

By AL VARNER
Staff Writer

In the attempt to generate interest in karate on campus, three experts in the art demonstrated fundamental and advanced techniques
in karate in chapel Monday. Jhoon Rhee, Pat Burleson and Julius Griffith went through several individual exercises and a short
sparring match and finished the program by breaking several boards and cinder blocks with their hands and feet. After the
assembly, Griffith, who is from Charlotte, met with several students who were interested in forming a club here on campus.

Rhee, who narrated the exhibition, has a sixth degree black belt and has been teaching karate for 20 years. His
headquarters are in Washington, D.C., but he has 25 schools in this country and 12 more in West Germany. “Very
successful for a crafty Oriental,” he commented.

The specific type of karate which Rhee teaches and which the three men demonstrated is Tae Kwon Do, or ‘foot
and hand’ karate. This style originated 1300 years ago in North Korea under the New Lightning Dynasty of that country.
Rhee’s organization is named the Tae Kwon Do Institute.

Burleson and Griffith wore karate outfits while demonstrating several individual exercises and a ‘fighting form’ called Advanced Form Number Five.
Then Rhee, in street clothes, went through a much more advanced form called Iron Horse. Rhee explained that he performed
in street clothes because “in a fight, you don't have time to change.” He also mentioned that “the purpose of
moving the fist and arm, not the shoulder, is to maintain balance.”

To show the importance of “power with control,” Rhee delivered a powerful sideward kick which stopped within a fraction of
an inch of Griffith's chin. Several times during the program, the students applauded the quickness, force, and enthusiasm which were
displayed. Near the end of the program, Burleson broke two boards with a sideward kick and then chopped a cinder
block in half with the knuckles of his clenched fist. By hurdling two kneeling students, he managed to kick a
board held several feet in the air. He did not break the board, though, until the third try. To complete
the program, Rhee jumped up and used his bare toes to break a board which Rocky Crosswhite and Tom Youngdale
held over their heads.

DISCUSS CURRICULUM
Gise Davihsanian
November 4, 1966
Page Three

Johnston Advocates Revision
By LINDSAY DAVIS
Feature Editor

Although the college curriculum is complete enough to offer the student both a challenge and good education, it is time
for Davidson to revise its curriculum, Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston said in chapel Tuesday.

Johnston explained that the curriculum has not been revised in several years, and “what was good once is not necessarily
good now.” Because of this, the faculty is now in the process of completely revising the curriculum. “One of the
recommendations,” Johnston remarked, “of the visiting self-study committee was that there is a definite need for revitalization.”

The rapid expansion of public higher education has produced a semblance of decline in church-related liberal arts colleges, he continued.
This type of school “now appears obsolete.” However, Johnston emphasized, it is not obsolete. “It is relevant to the new
culture” and “will not endure a lazy mind satisfied merely with facts.” There is still a place for the serious
in the liberal arts college, the student with a “need to find himself and then lose himself in causes and
ideas.” But for this student, Johnston said that the college must be prepared in the light of the advance of
new knowledge, the rapid growth of population in higher education, and “cataclysmic and violent social change.”

Is there too much regimentation in the present system here at Davidson? This is the opinion of some, and to
a degree, Johnston agrees. “Close order drill kills thought and never stimulates the imagination.” He continued, “For too long colleges
such as Davidson could be said to be geared for the average student. While some discipline is certainly necessary, education
can become too much ritualized, like an established church.”

There are, of course, barriers in the path of a curricular change. Johnston compared the faculty to management, students to
labor and grades to wages. Green stamps come in the form of credits which after four years the student can
cash in for a diploma. This is, of course, a highly material and unhealthy education and certainly not exciting intellectually
to the students or the faculty, Johnston commented.

The second barrier is the faculty itself. Will the professors who have been teaching the same course for years forsake
their tired old notes? The faculty, of course, must be the ones to renew the curriculum. “Professors,” said Johnston, “must
never settle down. The curriculum cannot operate itself.”

“Liberal education is an act of discovery... one that restores and reaffirms man’s own nobility, his glory, his aims. This
renewal’s purpose is to keep the curriculum from freezing. But we must go beyond curriculum, content and method to the
heart of learning—what is worth teaching and how to teach it.”

Applications Decrease Under Early Decision

There has been a noticeable decrease in Early Decision Plan applications for admission to Davidson next year, according to Director
of Admissions H. Edmunds White. While 116 applications were made last year on the Early Decision Plan, only 80 have
been received this year.

“The admissions committee is just about ready to begin evaluation,” White said. “Those accepted will be notified by Nov. 30.”

“There are three reasons for this decrease in applications,” White explained. “First, the number of high school seniors was larger
in 1964-65 than in any previous year. During 1966 the number fell considerably. This decrease should continue throughout this year
and then begin to rise again in 1968.

“Second, with many new and enlarging institutions, there are many more openings for students,” White said. “Some universities are accepting
200-400 more students this year.”

White concluded by saying that “the decrease of applications could be caused by the draft scare. Students who either fail
or do not take the Selective Service Test are subject to the draft unless they are in the top half
of their class. Some students,” he said, “would settle for less challenge by...going to an easier school than Davidson to
be sure of getting in the top half of their class."

Fraternities To Rotate Richardson Scholars

The Interfraternity Council is working on a plan to rotate Richardson Scholars to several fraternity houses for meals. IFC President
Mike Booe announced that the plan was being coordinated by Dr. John D. Kelton, psychology professor. The schedule would probably
call for the scholars to rotate between six fraternity houses in a period of six weeks. The purpose of the
move, according to Booe, is to help the scholars get acquainted with fraternity members. He said that they would not
each go to the fraternities because it would be too difficult to get to know all the members.

The council also spoke of preparing a letter to Grover C. Meetze, Jr., director of the physical plant, to request
that another telephone cable be installed to the college. "At least nine fraternities want new lines," Booe said. He said
that he expected the college to act on the proposal.

The council also announced that Tom Brown, Paul Curlee, and Vince Foster would form the new Judicial Committee.

APO Directories To Be Distributed

Students may expect their Alpha Phi Omega College directories in late this month or early in December, according to APO
President Mike Carroll. Carroll said that everything was set up but that ad sales had not been completed. This year's
directory, he continued, will have, besides student and faculty information, up-to-date telephone numbers of local girls’ schools.

APO also plans to have an expanded scouting program in Davidson and Mecklenburg County. Carroll commented that APO is still
open for membership and encouraged all interested students to attend one of their meetings, which are held on alternate Tuesdays
in the Green Room of the College Union at 7 p.m.

Freshman Parents Day Scheduled Next Week

Describing Freshman Parents Day as a "family visit," Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said that Nov. 12 will be
"one of those very special days in the life of the Davidson student." Although Parents Day is officially on Saturday,
Burts said, there are many optional campus activities which would be of interest for parents who come early or who
leave late.

Starting on Friday at 2:30 p.m. on Richardson Field, the freshman football team will host the freshmen of Furman University.
The Drama Department will present Oliver Goldsmith’s She Stoops to Conquer at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Saturday morning after official parental registration, there will be campus tours available to points of interest, visits to the freshman's
dorm room, and several classroom sit-ins. A buffet lunch will bring all parents and sons together. Then there will be
an assembly program in Love Auditorium. A faculty reception concludes the official agenda at 3 p.m. The final soccer game
with Emory University will be underway at that point, and parents are invited to attend.

Burts suggested having supper off campus on Saturday evening. Then at 8:15 p.m. there will be another showing of She
Stoops to Conquer. For parents remaining on campus through Sunday, there are 11 a.m. services in the college and community
churches. Last year’s Parents Day drew a crowd of approximately 75 percent of the freshmen’s parents.

Debate Team Prepares

Varsity debate team members Tom Rhodes and Greg Haynes rehearse strategy in preparation for an invitational tournament this week at
Emory University in Atlanta, Ga. Rhodes and Haynes, along with Fletcher Hartsell and Jim Cooley, left yesterday for the three-day
tournament, sponsored by the Barclay Forum. Approximately 80 schools from all over the country will be represented.

Schafer Hops Freights On Weekends

By TOM WHEATLEY
Staff Writer

The average student hitchhikes on weekends, but Bill Schafer, a Davidson freshman, hops freights for transportation. Hitchhiking is faster, he
admits, but for someone who believes that getting there is half the fun, freights are the only way to go.
Since he came to Davidson, Schafer has made three trips, two by himself and one with a companion. A typical
trip from Davidson would begin at the Mooresville junction to Winston-Salem or Asheville. Beginning in an open car, he sometimes
can switch to a better car at Statesville. The best time to hop is during the night or in a
heavy fog in order to avoid being seen.

Schafer says the most beautiful trips that he has taken have been to Asheville, where he has arrived at dawn
with a clear view of the autumn leaves. Schafer has never been caught, though he has been interrogated. Hopping trains
is, according to Schafer, "no more illegal than hitchhiking on an interstate."

Railroads have always fascinated Schafer. He wants to get to know the workings of the railroads, what makes them run
late, what causes inefficiency and damage suits. His hobby thus has a two-fold purpose. The first is fun, the second
is to get to know the maneuvers of trains "by being a parcel post." New to the Southern System, he
has already hopped short distances on the Baltimore & Ohio, the Missouri Pacific, the Pennsylvania, and the Western Maryland lines.
He wants to take more extensive trips in the future and visit some big yards in order to get a
more comprehensive view of the whole railroad industry.

Interest has doubled at Davidson recently as Andy Bird, a junior, made his first hop with Schafer a couple of
weeks ago. Since this has been a very lonely hobby to him in the past, he is very glad to
find "a kindred spirit." If anyone else would like something different to do on an off weekend, Schafer recommends this
hobby. The following equipment is necessary since freight trains are cold: two pairs of socks, two pairs of pants, a
sweatshirt under a sport shirt, two sweaters, a windbreaker, and a raincoat. Also, a towel, a blanket, and some snacks
are handy.

(Staff Photo by Olson)
BILL SCHAFER IN ACTION

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

STEAK
Folk — Rock ‘n Roll — Classical
Jazz — Comedy — Country
RECORD CITY DISCOUNT
On The Square—Downtown
ALL LABELS AT DISCOUNT
Phone 375-6205

For a Good Selection of Sport Coats and Suits try Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Sport Coats from $44.00 - $65.00
Suits from $70.00 - $95.00
Come in today and let us give you an expert fit.
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.
Greenville, S. C.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C
Phone ED 2-2414

MUCH OF EVERY DOLLAR ...
Of life insurance in force today was bought by men “who didn’t have the money.” Let me explain about Northwestern
Mutual's Graduated Premium Plan.
ROBERT T. STONE
N. Main St.
Phone 892-1424
Davidson, N.C.
