PAGE SIX

PRAM Elects President

Joe Williamson, a junior from South Fort Mitchell, Ky., has been elected President of the Davidson chapter of PRAM. The
other elected officers are Leslie Brown, vice president; Bill Williams, secretary; Hobs Allan, treasurer; and Marvin Sparrow, coordinator. PRAM will
sponsor a trip this summer to Ecuador. A total of fifteen of the members from Davidson, Duke, Vanderbilt, UNC at
Charlotte, Belmont Abbey, and Penn State will make the trip. It is hoped that ten Ecuadorians will be able to
come to the United States for a two-month visit in the fall. A tour of Washington and New York is
planned. The 27 students from various colleges who are traveling to Ecuador and Bolivia on the PRAM summer program met
last weekend for their second training conference. Leslie Brown (left) was one of the Davidson students present at the meeting.
PRAM currently has a projected budget of $20,000 for these two projects. Williamson expects $7,000 to be donated by private
foundations and businesses before the middle of May.

Easter Gift Fund Nets Almost $800

The YMCA has collected about $800 for the Easter Gift Fund, according to College Chaplain Will Terry. The money, which
came from last spring's Baccalaureate Service, this year's Christmas Vesper Service, and five Vespers services this spring, will provide vocational
training for young mothers in Charlotte who are currently on the welfare rolls. The $800 figure was the goal set
by Allen Webb, YMCA gift fund chairman, in an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN last month. The Charlotte scholarship fund was
chosen to benefit from the Easter Fund Drive by the student body in a vote after a chapel presentation by
Walt McDonald, a 1964 Davidson graduate. McDonald said that $800 would provide six scholarships for one year’s study at Central
Piedmont Community College for training in such areas as stenography and practical nursing.

Brevard Minister To Speak Sunday

The Rev. Dan McCall will speak at Vespers on Sunday. Having previously served at the First Presbyterian Church in Highlands,
McCall is now pastor at the Brevard-Davidson River Presbyterian Church in Brevard. A native of Marion, he graduated from Davidson
in 1951. While at Davidson he was a member of Beta Theta Pi and played varsity football. After serving in
the Army and working as a sales representative of Royal McBee Corp., McCall attended Columbia Theological Seminary where he graduated
cum laude in 1961.

NO RED SHOES

A Traffic Point System Proposed By Covington

A session that included training about how to debate Latin American communists and lessons on local customs such as not
smoking without offering one to everybody in the room and never wearing red shoes. (Staff Photo by Purvis).

SUSGA Ties Appear Unlikely After Meeting

Four Davidson Student Council representatives reported after an investigative venture to the SUSGA convention last weekend that it is doubtful
that Davidson will affiliate with that student government association. SUSGA, the Southern University Student Government Association, has as its main
purpose the coordination of various student governments. “However,” related Bill Watson, one of the four Davidson representatives, “the organization would
be of little value to us because we have little in common with, and seldom associate with, the member schools.”
Watson attended the convention, held in Jacksonville, along with fellow Student Council members Ben Cannon, John Gresham, and John Allen.

June Registration Set For Summer School

Registration for the first session of summer school at Davidson will begin Wednesday, June 15, according to College Registrar F.
W. Hengeveld. The three sessions to be held this summer have been slated for June 16-July 9, July 11-Aug. 2,
and Aug. 3-20. "We expect an enrollment of about the same as last summer when 176 registered for the first
term," Hengeveld said. “The summer session will be open to college and university students, recent high school graduates, teachers seeking
to meet state requirements, and to adults in the vicinity.” The maximum workload during summer school will be three hours
for non-science and four hours for science courses. Tuition for three-hour courses per term is $90 and $120 for each
four-hour course. First and second term expenses will be $162 for three hours and $192 for four hours. Three hours
in the third term (no four-hour courses will be offered) will cost $90. In the summer at Davidson, interns are
housed in the Belk dormitory. Coeds live in private homes in the community. Housing is arranged through Mrs. Peter Nicholls,
supervisor of dormitories. “Students are reserving rooms now," according to Mrs. Hiertan Gillespie, assistant superintendent of dormitories. Resident students are
required to take their meals in the College Union.

A “delegate-at-large from the student body,” Watson listed four North Carolina schools — Mars Hill, Pfeiffer, St. Andrews, and Catawba
— among the 92 members. “The big pitch they made to us,” Watson said, “was that if Davidson joined, then
schools such as Duke and UNC would follow. We can benefit them, but they could benefit us little.” An entertainment
block booking system which provided the convention with acts such as The Town Criers, The Womenfolk, and The Bitter End
Singers is offered by SUSGA. Other advantages are publications workshops, directories giving information on member schools, and cheerleader workshops. Watson
repeated, however, that it is doubtful that Davidson will join SUSGA, but will look into other organizations such as ASG
(Associated Student Governments) which was begun at Vanderbilt. Earlier in the year, the Davidson student body voted to drop affiliation
with the National Student Association (NSA).

An entirely new system of traffic regulation may be installed. Watson and Randy Wylie outlined the new system to the
Student Council last week. This system, originated by Assistant Dean of Students Tom Covington, is based on points and not
fines. Upon registration of a car, a student would be allocated five points. For each offense, a student would lose
a predetermined number of points: one point for parking in a no-parking area, two points for overtime parking, three points
for failure to register, and four points for speeding.

CAR IMPOUNDING

After a student had lost five points, his car would be impounded with the Dean's Office. That is, the student
would immediately have to park his car off campus and turn his keys over to the Dean's Office. The length
of the time of its impounding would vary from one to four weeks, depending on the individual nature of the
offense and the violation frequency. If a student continues to disobey traffic rules after his car has been once impounded,
he would be subject to a much longer indefinite period of impounding.

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has
the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID
card, will entitle you to a 20 percent discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Asked why the change was necessary, Watson replied, “To begin with, there...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

There are 11 administrative officials and secretaries involved each time a student has to pay a fine. Because of the
great amount of time and trouble spent in the clerical record keeping, the college actually loses more money than it
makes from the fines. Under the new system, students would no longer be required to go to traffic court, unless,
of course, they wanted to appeal. Watson further stated that the new system would be much more equitable. "There is
definitely a great difference between speeding and endangering someone's life and parking somewhere on the grass. Under the old system,
a student would receive the same amount of a fine, but under the new system, students would lose a different
number of points."

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristorante
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristorante
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

On Max Shulman
(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

THE COLLEGE PRESIDENT: HIS CAUSE AND CURE

Oh, sure, you've been busy, what with going to classes, doing your homework, catching night crawlers, getting married, picketing—but can’t
you pause for just a moment and give thought to that dear, dedicated, lonely man in the big white house
on the hill? I refer, of course, to Prexy. (It is interesting to note that college presidents are always called
"Prexy.” Similarly, trustees are always called “Trixie.” Associate professors are always called “Arty.” Play bursars are called “Foxy-Woxy.” Students are
called “Al.”)

But I digress. We were speaking of Prexy, a personage at once grand and pathetic. Why pathetic? Well, sir, consider
how he spends his days. He is busy, busy, busy. He talks to deans, he talks to professors, he talks
to trustees, he talks to alumni. In fact, he talks to everybody except the one group who could lift his
heart and rally his spirits. I mean, of course, the appealingest, endearingest, ringomest group in the entire college—delightful you, the
students. It is Prexy’s sad fate to be forever a stranger to your laughing, golden selves. He can only gaze
wistfully out the window of his big white house on the hill and watch you at your games and sports
and yearn with all his tormented spirit to bask in your warmth.

But how? It would hardly be fitting for Prexy to appear one day at the Union, clad in an old
rowing blazer, and cry gaily, “Heigh-ho, chaps! Veilands, Prexy can’t get to you. It is up to you, friends, to
get to him. Call on him at home. Just drop in unannounced. He will naturally be a little shy at
first, so you must put him at his ease. Shout, “Howdy-doody, sir! I have come to bring a little sunshine
into your drear and blighted life!” Then yank his necktie out of his vest and scamper goatlike around him until
he is laughing merrily along with you.

Then hand him a package and say, “A little gift for you, sir.” “For me?" he will say, lowering his
lids. “You shouldn't have.” “Yes, I should," you will say, “because this is a pack of Personna Super Stainless Steel
Blades, and whenever I think of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, I think of you.” “Why, hey?" he will ask
curiously. “Because, sir," you will say, “though you are no longer a young blade, still you gleam and function. Full
though you are of years and lumps, creamy though your endocrines and flaccid your trings, still you remain sharp, incisive,
efficacious.” “Thank you," he will say, sobbing. “So it is with Personna,” you will continue. “Naturally you expect a brand-new
blade to give a close, speedy shave. But how about a blade that’s had hard and frequent use? Do you
still expect a close, speedy shave? Well, sir, if it's a Personna, that’s what you'll get. Because, sir, like you,
sir, Personna is no flash-in-the-pan. Like you, sir, Personna endures.”

He will clasp your hand then, not trusting himself to speak. “But away with gloom!” you will cry jollily. “For
I have still more good news to tell you of Personna!” “How is that possible?" he will say. “Hearten to
me,” you will say. “Personna, in all its enduring splendor, is available not only in Double Edge style but also
in Injector style!” He will join you then in the Personna rouser, and then he will bring you a steaming
cup of cocoa with a marshmallow on top. Then you say, “Good-bye, sir. I will return soon again to brighten
your dank, moist life.” “Please do,” he will say, “But next time, if you can possibly manage it, try not
to come at four in the morning.”

Just, Lies, Seztoan Prexy and undergrad, take anit soon, false weather and feel the perfect shaving companion to Personna? Blades
is Burma Shave. It comes in a regular and mentholated face, spring around another in Burma Shave, try Personna.
