Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

DEFENSE LINE (L-R): Newsome, Morehead, Bryan, Brenneman
BACKS (L-R): Caldwell, Gruber, Giles, Lindsey, Gaddy, Sizemore, Dews

KNIGHTS OF THE NEW LOOK

The summer is over. Slowly the upperclassmen wander in, while eager, untested freshmen run around with trash cans in their
hands looking for the faucets. After the usual “How ya doing?” and the bone-crushing handshake from a real fraternity brother
with the meat grinder paw, the subject turns to football. When the question arises, “Are they really going to dress
out part of the Queens roving 6 to help with the kicking team?” you simply can’t help but wonder. Just
what kind of team will we have this year?

Those friends of Davidson, the football prognosticators, have turned their attention to the Southern Conference and sent in last year’s
predictions for this year. Davidson is ranked near the bottom for a variety of reasons—size, lettermen, and tradition. But hark,
there is one ray of light beaming into Richardson Field. Playboy, the magazine of studs which claims to be an
authority on all sports played inside and outside, has faith in us. Though they doomed the Knights of the New
Look to the lower half of their class, they still foresee Davidson in a post-season game. Would you believe a
loss in the Cereal Bowl in Battle Creek?

Despite what the man in that booth of Hattie’s tells you, Davidson has a good team. I don’t say they
will run George Washington off the field, or even beat them. But, if they play like they practice, everyone will
hang in there until they have to be carried from the field. And if the ranks get extremely thin, keep
your eyes on the assistant coaches edging toward the dressing room, slipping off their shirts as they go. Young coaches
do come in handy occasionally.

To hope for a championship team this year is dreaming. But the teams we're surrounded with in the pre-season surveys
are not good company. Davidson has a respectable team and they want to win. Homer Smith has taught winning and
this team has learned it. Winning tasted good last year. It will taste even better this year.

Indians Name Mitchell Chief

Warren Mitchell, a vital behind-the-scenes cog in the Wildcat basketball machine in his capacity as assistant coach, has left his
post at Davidson to become head coach at William and Mary. “We hate to lose him,” said Athletic Director Dr.
Tom Scott, “but of course we wouldn't want to stop him. Assistant coaches are in it to advance as much
as they can, and Warren has been offered a real fine job at William and Mary.” No replacement has been
found, Scott said.

Cakemen To Gallop Monday

Monday at 4 p.m. there will be a stampede of 250 mumbling, grumbling, stumbling freshmen. The annual event, which is
traditionally called the “cake race,” will take place over the one and seven-tenths miles cross-country course and will include all
of the Class of 1970, except football players and those with a doctor’s excuse. Coach Heath Whittle said there will
be about 75 cakes awarded to the first finishers of those who do not choke, cheat, collapse, become “ill” or
get knocked down by upperclassmen’s autos. Freshmen are reminded to wear their PE uniforms and urged to report to the
soccer field on time in order not to keep waiting the throngs of upperclassmen who will turn out to reminisce.

“On paper George Washington is better than we are,” said Coach Homer Smith, “but you don't play on paper.” “Every
man on our squad will play in every game,” Smith said. “When the final gun sounds on Saturday afternoons this
fall, there will be 33 dirty uniforms in our dressing room.” Thus comes the nickname, “The Dirty Thirty,” the dominant
theme of the 1966 Wildcats. With an obvious handicap in the depth department, the 'Cats must stay healthy. They will
attempt to counter this weakness with ability, desire, and conditioning, Smith said.

Injuries have already hit the 'Cats. Renn Gruber, being courted by several professional teams, has yet to participate in any
game-type scrimmages during pre-season work but will start at safety against GW. “Renn played almost perfect football last fall,” said
Coach Smith, “and I am sure that he will do even better this fall.”For the season is quarterback Jake Jacobsen,
a 165-pound senior who fell ill with mononucleosis earlier this week. Despite the injuries, there have been many bright spots
this year. Tommy Dews, labelled by Coach Smith as “a fierce competitor and a natural leader,” was unanimously elected captain
of the ‘Cats and rates as a top candidate for all-conference honors. The offense will be strong up the middle
with center Walter Greene as the anchorman. “Walter is our best blocker and possibly the best center in the conference,”
said Coach Smith. “He played almost every play during the ‘65 season.” Greene is the only veteran on the interior
line, which is filled mostly with inexperienced players.

Leading the backfield is quarterback Jimmy Poole, who took over that post midway through last season. Joining Poole will be
Billy Taylor at tailback, Johnny Walker at wingback, and Kerry Keith at fullback. The ‘Cats will run a perimeter offense,
Smith said. “We feel that we have a better chance of going around our opponents than through them. We will
use mostly outside or sweep plays.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Leading the backfield is quarterback Jimmy Poole, who took over that post midway through last season. Joining Poole will be
Billy Taylor at tailback, Johnny Walker at wingback, and Kerry Keith at fullback. The ‘Cats will run a perimeter offense,
Smith said. “We feel that we have a better chance of going around our opponents than through them. We will
use mostly outside or sweep plays.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Don’t Miss A Single Issue This Fall
— I enclose $4.00
— Bill me at $4.50
Mail to Circulation Manager
Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036

Phase Two Makes Debut; Tough Foe First Opponent
Disguised with another new twist to a varied offensive attack, Phase Two of the New Look swings into action tomorrow
on Richardson Field as the Wildcats meet George Washington at 2 p.m.

One of the team's strongest assets will be its pass receiving corps. Converted halfback Pete Glidewell and Bill Rikard will
start at ends. Glidewell caught 13 passes for two touchdowns last season, while Rikard grabbed 26 for 343 yards. “We
are looking forward to this season,” says Coach Smith. “Our team will be in superb condition, and I predict that
the boys will play hard and very well every minute of every game.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 16, 1966. Page 3

OFFENSE LINE (L-R): Glidewell, Waldron, Murphy, Greene, Webb, Thompson, Rikard
BACKS (L-R): Walker, Poole, Keith, Taylor

Fall Baseball To Open Monday
Fall baseball practice will begin Monday and will last for four weeks, Coach Tom Stevens said. Varsity players will draw
uniforms Monday morning from Mr. Turner at the gym, and will report at 2 p.m. Monday to the new field
north of Patterson Court. Freshman players will report Monday with the varsity, Stevens said. Anyone interested in managing either the
varsity or freshman team should contact Stevens immediately, he said.

Wildcats Launch New Season With GW
‘Colonials May Be Unready For ‘Cats

George Washington Head Coach Jim Camp said this week in a telephone interview, “We will not be ready for the
Davidson game Saturday.” Camp said his team, which has been working out since the first of the month, looks “lousy”
in comparison to GW teams of the past. “We don't have enough ball players,” he said. “We lost every tackle
but one from last year’s team. And we also lost our first and second team quarterbacks and tailbacks.”

Noticeably absent from the GW lineup will be quarterback Garry Lyle, a superstar junior who piloted the Colonials to a
5-5 record against such teams as Cincinnati and East Carolina. Lyle was suspended this year for academic reasons but is
expected to return to GW next year. Camp said he will pin his hopes for a successful season on Co-Captain
Tom Metz, a 175-pound senior from Strafford, Pa., who was named All-Southern Conference defensive back and received an Honorable Mention
All-American on the Associated Press poll last season. Holding down the quarterback slot will be Glenn Davis, a 175-pound junior
from Millvale, Pa. “Davis was our most improved back in spring practice,” Camp said. “The squad has confidence in him,
and he has been running and passing very well.”

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

Pipe Smokers with your Davidson ID card will be entitled to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe purchases (only)
Charlotte STATESMEN TRAINED HERE!
