**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1966

Immaturity Showing

But as soon as mankind have attained the capacity of being guided to their own improvement by conviction or perception
(a period long since reached in all nations with whom we need here concern ourselves), compulsion, either in the direct
form or in that of pains and penalties for non-compliance, is no longer admissible as a means to their own
good, and justifiable only for the security of others.

Either John Stuart Mill was overly optimistic about the levels mankind has reached, or he would not have considered that
Davidson need be considered in his thinking, for some students have recently been showing an amazing incapacity to reach self-improvement.
Senseless destruction of property in the dormitories has resulted not only in additional operating costs for the college, but the
very safety of dorm residents has been endangered. The most conspicuous example is that of discharging fire extinguishers placed on
every hall. During Homecoming, there were more than 400 girls staying in Belk Dormitory. As per usual dance weekend procedure,
there were only two exits open. With less than half of the extinguishers operable, the building could have become literally
a fire trap.

THE DAVIDSONIAN has been vocal in its advocacy of a stepped-up student role in policy making of the college, as
well as greater freedom and less paternalism from the administration. Doubtless the student body shares these sentiments and would welcome
any evidence of increased administration confidence in student maturity. But why should such concessions be granted when such immature behavior
as setting fires in the dorms and discharging fire extinguishers is going on? It’s an old saw that freedom and
responsibility go hand-in-hand, and the student body must show itself willing and able to shoulder responsibility by acting like adults.
True, it’s only a relative few who indulge in such childlike antics, but the entire student body, who, by silently
observing such games, condones the actions and therefore shares the blame for endangering the health and safety of other students,
as well as college property.

Last spring, the student body voted to maintain and enforce certain Student Body Regulations, and a Regulations Court was established
to carry the regulations out. Since its inception, though, the court has failed to try a single case, a pitiful
testimony to student reluctance to become involved in what they consider none of their business. But the Regulations Court is
not the sole avenue of maintaining decorum in the dorms. Informal pressures by the students on a hall will often
serve as a more effective curb on destructive tendencies. But the odium is that this means is apparently being used
just as little as is the court, if the rash of destruction is any indication.

Students can continue to gripe about the Victorian standards imposed on them, but there often appears to be justification for
such paternalism. The choice is there: Students can assume responsibility for enforcing their conduct or expect the administration to do
it for them. To have a security officer added to the college staff to check dorms for destruction would be
doubly harmful to student interests. Not only would it be a humiliating blow to be treated as children, but it
would be financially painful, in the form of increased room rent.

Fight On

While U.S. Army men are dying in Viet Nam “for democracy,” the U.S. Army at Davidson seems somewhat opposed to
the principle of majority rule, commonly associated with the democratic ideal. We're going to give you an alternative, the ROTC
people told students in the Advanced Program. Either you can have two hour-and-a-half drills and not have one on the
Tuesday before Thanksgiving, or you can have the regular three one-hour drills, including the one scheduled for next Tuesday. The
juniors and seniors voted almost unanimously to go with the two-drill plan. So far, so good. But just to make
things official, the plan was submitted to several freshman and sophomore classes, where approximately 40 percent of the people in
the classes voted to have the regular three drills. Result, ROTC students will be marching Tuesday, as planned. And the
war goes on.

Student Role Important

Davidson College has taken a major step forward in recognizing the true concept of a liberal arts education, even as
the Blue Sky Committee begins its undertaking of exploring the entire question of an education. The committee’s willingness to allow
two non-voting student members to participate in committee meetings acknowledges the fact that students do indeed have a role to
play in deciding what the liberal man consists of and what direction the college should take in aiming toward that
goal. The concession to student requests is no benign capitulation; the committee was shrewd enough to invoke the right of
executive session should the occasion demand it. Such a provision could conceivably, though not likely, be used to exclude the
student members from any meaningful discussion. But THE DAVIDSONIAN is confident that student participation will be of a mature and
thoughtful nature that will make student exclusion unthinkable by the committee.

A second limitation on student participation is the provision limiting the Student Council, and ultimately, the student body, from having
exclusive decision of who will sit on the committee. Instead of concentrating on finding the two most capable students, the
council is forced to find six students of approximately equal abilities from which the committee can choose. This in turn
reinforces the need for students with a commitment to Davidson to make known their willingness to work on the faculty
committee, instead of waiting to be sought out by Student Council members or members of the council’s own curriculum committee.

Growth Of A Magazine

Until Spring 1965 there was annually elected an editor of a campus publication known as the Scripts ‘n Pranks, an
irregularly, infrequently appearing campus magazine that claimed to serve as the outlet for student creative writings, as well as being
the medium for dissemination of campus humor. In practice, S’nP had no creative writings and its “humor” consisted of crude
cartoons stolen from university humor publications and an innocuous character known as Ches R. Cat, whose escapades were invariably chronicled
the night preceding the copy deadline.

In the past year-and-a-half, Charlie Vick has revitalized the entire concept of a campus literary magazine and has made The
Miscellany, successor to S’nP, a publication in which the entire community can take pride. Gone are the stolen or esoteric
humor, the informal or non-existent organization and that darned cat. In their place is a forum for short stories, poetry,
criticism and other original efforts. Admittedly, the charge of irregularity and infrequency can still be levied at the magazine’s staff,
but a great deal of the blame can be laid at the feet of students themselves, who have failed to
give The Miscellany the support it needs and deserves to make it a predominantly student publication.

Mr. Vick has handed over the reins of his publication to two capable juniors with a solid format for the
future. New editors Buddy Newsom and Ted Winter have a sterling opportunity to increase even more significantly The Miscellany’s standing
not only at Davidson, but in the world of letters.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Campus Rises To Defense Of Gnomes

Dear Editor:

Mister (the title is used loosely here) Kendrick's letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN of last week seemed to be the invective
and somewhat eccentric mud-slinging of a social maniac who cannot realize that some people get their kicks in other ways
than himself. The writer possibly had some valid, though perverted, advice for a fuller life, but his style and random
cries of “witch” completely negated this. Who among us emerged unscathed? Who is pure? Who? Indeed, who is in Mr.
Kendrick’s circle of friends if he uses those rantings as a criterion. Poor Mr. Kendrick.

The paragraph I decry most was the finger-pointing, almost public naming, of specific gnomic creatures on campus. Old George Shaw
and his frisbee flinging five (or however many) are to be henceforth ostracized. Wait a minute! The gentleman said stamped
out, didn’t he? Oh, my God, George! Run! We'll all be with you soon.

What raked up his verbiage of that non-love letter is hard to guess. Possibly some gnome beat him out of
his position on a ‘grad school’ team. Maybe he wanted to tell us that he dislikes all “intellectual” term-users. Or,
could it be verbal tears over his inability to grow a beard? I would suggest, then, a mustache, Mr. Kendrick.

RICK LONON
Davidson College

Letter Points Out Educational Lack

Dear Editor:

I consider the stupidity of Mr. Kendrick’s letter to be obvious, but the important and pathetic aspect of the letter
is what it indicates about the potency of the Davidson educational process. Unfortunately, Mr. Kendrick’s views appear at the very
time some students are trying to demonstrate student maturity and responsibility. We must repudiate Kendrick’s letter, but we should not
ignore what it clearly indicates.

KENNETH L. CHILDS
Davidson College

Campus ‘Giant’ Is Gnome Counterpart

Dear Editor:

A caprice has come to the Davidson College campus — a caprice that is often attacked, but because of its
devotees, is still electrically alive. This song unfortunately encompasses the periphery of humanity, the paragons of mankind, the epitomes of
knowledgability, the ultra-cool, the lions, the cream: these are none other than (and may God eternally bless them) the giants.

Now some of you, particularly lower classmen, are probably wondering what manner of man (aye, and more than a man)
this is. I will do my best to explain their mode of existence in the following list of giant characteristics:

FEW HOURS
1.) A giant studies as few hours as possible, devoting another three to six to sleep. The rest of his
day is devoted to loafing, goofing off, and occasionally going to classes, to which he carries as little as is
necessary and sometimes less.

2.) The typical giant does all in his power to remain inconspicuous in class and unknown to his professors so
he will not be called on. He often succeeds; after all, why should an educated, intelligent teacher go out of
his way to recognize a student who neither has interest nor has prepared his lesson?

ALL NIGHTERS
3.) The giant may stay up all night, often making noise to bother the people who are in bed by
2:30 a.m.

4.) The giant dates often — at least every weekend and many times during the week. He realizes, of course,
that no girl can possibly be as great or as cool as he, but he likes to humor the female
sex nevertheless. He has no trouble talking to them; he knows how to handle women.

5.) The giant may or may not be athletic, but he invariably thinks that he is. If he is, he
spends so much time improving his body that his mind must be pushed along by a tutor.

INCENSED
6.) When a term paper is assigned, he waits until two days before it is due to start writing it,
then becomes incensed when all the books have not been returned.to the library for his benefit.

7.) The giant is always short on notes because he cuts so many classes. He expects those who do attend
class regularly to lay their notes at his feet.

8.) His mid-week entertainment consists of a trip or three up the road, while on weekends he attends parties with
great bands where he stands around smoking an occasional cigarette, trying to out-cool everyone else there.

FRATERNITY ONLY

9.) The giant's activities (extracurricular and otherwise) consist of fraternity. He would not be caught dead attending Open End, growing
a beard, smoking a pipe, or throwing a Frisbee — all of which are uncool. (This is not to imply
that all fraternity men are giants; most of them are men.)

10.) He neither approves nor disapproves of chapel speakers; he cuts 12 (or 13) chapels and sleeps through the rest.

11.) He is not upset by noise from the stadium or concert which filters into the library because he spends
so little time there.

HIGHLY ANNOYED

He is highly annoyed, however, by strains of Bach, Handel, or Mozart heard quietly in the dorm.

12.) The giant becomes very upset when he realizes as a senior that he has not worked for three years
and cannot get into graduate school. He will think of a dozen other excuses for his failure, though.

13.) His voting record is solidly against all that the trustees and administration endorse, be it good, bad, or indifferent.

14.) He stays with the “in” crowd by senselessly cutting classes and overcutting chapel and by getting at least one
parking ticket a month.

15.) No one knows if he ever showers because he is never in his room.

UNDERCLASSMEN

Underclassmen, hear me out. (Sorry, upperclassmen — too late): if you see any of the above characteristics in yourself, cut
it out. The trouble is that both gnomes and giants are so self-centered that they fail to see themselves as
they are. I'm not trying to stamp out either giants or gnomes on this campus—a few of each are needed
to keep life interesting. But there are already a few of each here; let’s stop the spread.

MICHAEL LAPLANTE
Davidson College Junior

Proposes Gnome Affairs Post

Dear Editor:

In reference to Mr. Kendrick's gnome letter in last week's issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I would like to suggest that
an official campus Office of Gnome Affairs be set up with Mr. Kendrick as Head Gnome Designator. No organizational plans
have been formulated yet, but I think that one important job of this new office would be to protect “normal”
Davidson students from gnomes by requiring that all students officially designated as gnomes by Kendrick be required to wear a
scarlet “G” emblazoned upon their chest. This, I think, would be a significant initial step in helping to remove the
gnome menace from the Davidson campus.

GREY PASH
Davidson College

Gnomes Backbone of Campus: Slade

Dear Editor:

The Gnome is the intellectual backbone of a notoriously anti-intellectual campus. It is his academic reputation that gets us, the
hangers-on, into the best graduate schools. I'm afraid that I cannot accept criticism of someone because his study habits are
better than my own, and I am quite frankly shocked at the awful narrowness of Mr. Kendrick’s mind.

LARRY SLADE
Davidson College

Rhea Sees Eleazer Opposite Kendrick

Dear Editor:

I hope there's enough beer in Marburg to pacify the ecstatic fit that will seize Holmes Eleazer after he reads
Bill Kendrick’s denunciation of “the dirge” that supposedly has infected the Davidson Campus, the gnome. One gets the impression from
Kendrick’s article that the next desired step is the formation of the G.G.G. (the Glu Glux Glan) a society whose
main function will be the declaration of and execution of all such Davidson students. The execution would probably be carried
out in at least two ways. If a gnome is ugly and gnomy enough to make Kendrick or any other
G.G.G. member sick enough when he happens to pass him on campus, he would be murdered right there on the
spot.

OBSERVATION

If the gnome is not quite this gnomy, then he and other accused gnomes would be taken out in the
middle of Lake Norman and thrown over the side of the boat. If they sink they're definite gnomes, if not
they would be put under observation for a two-month period. Switching the scene of this discussion somewhat drastically, I read
in the Nov. 11 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN that Mr. Eleazer has been playing for his Goethe Institute basketball team.
Now I'm sure that he found this game played in a very different manner from that in which a Davidson
game is conducted, but I'm sure it reminded him in some fashion of Davidson which I thought he wanted to
obliterate from his memory.

REMINISCENCE

How he could have time for reminiscence of the “little world,” when he and his colleagues are so completely taken
up with the disruption of West Germany’s coalition government and Germany's Francophile foreign policy is beyond me. Mr. Eleazer writes
of the students in Marburg: “Their concern for themselves, their goals and their world is bred from their freedom, and
it is genuine, serious concern.” I would like to ask Mr. Eleazer to take a count of the number of
different faces he sees enter any departmental library in Marburg in any regularly repeated fashion during the course of one
semester there. If his count exceeds 25 I would be startled, and of those 25 I would say that 75
percent of them would be nine and 10 semester students who are working on their doctoral thesis.

OWN LIBRARIES

If he argues that most of the students study in their apartments, then I would ask him how many students
are able to buy their own libraries. Many people at this point might fail to see the relation between the
preceding paragraphs. Of all those who should know the answer to such a question, I would hope that Dan Mombrea
could answer it. The fact is that he cannot or has not demonstrated his ability to do so. Even if
one takes up the solution to the conflict depicted by these two letters, just how does he specifically define the
conflict and deal with it.

WELL-ROUNDED

Let me make one point certain. The solution does not lie in “the well-roundedness theory” of past Davidson traditions. But
it also cannot be found in the idealistic intellectualism that, according to Mr. Eleazer, pervades the contemporary academic scene in
Marburg. At his trial Socrates was asked to choose between Athens and the search for truth. In an analogous way,
one might ask the two extremists above to choose between Davidson and the search for truth. Mr. Kendrick would certainly
choose Davidson. Mr. Eleazer would choose his newly found truth, but not the search of it.

BOB RHEA
Davidson College

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

The Gospel According to John

On Concern and Responsibility

AT VARIOUS TIMES I have held forth at length upon the subject of apathy among today’s students. I have spoken
from my experience at Davidson to try to dispel the idea that there is true apathy among our student body.
Now, when I am almost out of school I find my attitude regressing, and I have begun to wonder if
I haven’t been under certain delusions as to the merit of our student body in this area. There are times
when I am encouraged by interest shown, but there are also many times when I have felt that nothing in
the world could stir anyone from his personal niche into some kind of action.

I think it important to emphasize that activist procedures for their own sake do not serve as any answer. I
do not feel that one must parade down main street Davidson, blocking the two or three cars, to prove the
need for a by-pass. Nor do I approve of activist measures which may tend to bring personal insult or injury
to someone (the case with effigy burnings). Such things are as little a part of an attempt to do something
constructive as are Davidson's “friendly” jibes and hisses in Chapel and other meetings.

I THINK IT IS TIME that someone stated that there are some things that just “aren’t done” by people old
enough to be in college. College doesn’t give one a license to be rude. There isn’t a man here who
doesn’t know the rules of common courtesy. For this reason there is simply no excuse for not observing them no
matter how bad the speaker, program, or entertainment may be. It is just that simple; there is nothing “sharp” about
making anyone feel uncomfortable, and anyone who says differently is way out of line. If you have a complaint, either
keep it to yourself or make it through the proper channels; I have never seen a time when it was
the right thing to do to interfere with the person(s) complained of while they are speaking before the student body.

But I wish to carry this thing of exemplifications of apathy further. How many of us have stood by and
watched wanton destruction be carried out in the dormitories or around campus by our fellow students? What do we think
about when we see people breaking out windows on the hall or writing on the walls or destroying light bulbs?

THIS SORT OF THING is every bit as bad as going out and stealing the article which one destroys. And
we stand around and watch these things happening, never saying a word for fear we will be frowned upon for
being “zeroes.”

There are other areas in which the kind of apathy I am dealing with shows itself. One of the most
prominent of these is in the classroom. How often do we sit and listen to a professor or a fellow
student espouse a point of view with which we are in total disagreement and never make any response, even when
we actually believe what was said was in error? Aren’t we too easy on other people? Don’t we just go
along with our own little cares and ideas and in our silence give tacit approval to whatever passes through our
sphere of existence?

IN SHORT, the antidote to apathy is constructive concern. If we believe in something we are obligated to make it
known to others when we feel they are stepping out of line. This is a part of our social responsibility.
At Davidson we are in a community, and because of the interest we are bound to have in the community
from our ties to it we are responsible as individuals to try to do everything we can to make this
an improved place to get an education. Thus are we responsible to the institution and the community in which we
live.

At the same time we are responsible to ourselves. Only by standing up for what we believe can we retain
any degree of the integrity and self-respect implied in the kinds of standards and goals by which most of us
must direct ourselves. This problem is one which demands solution; it is one which each one of us can solve
personally; no “book-burning,” witch-hunt, or demonstration is required. All we have to do is look at ourselves and decide that
we are ready to accept the responsibility demanded by our maturity.
