VOL. LV

There will be no admission charged to students for any basketball games played at the Coliseum next year, THE DAVIDSONIAN learned this week. In addition, Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics, said that all student seats would be concentrated in a block of three sections in the left mezzanine. There will be no balcony seats. Faculty seats will be on the opposite side of the Coliseum.

Scott's decision apparently terminates a three-month-old controversy which arose over students being charged to attend games with St. Joseph's and New York University earlier this year.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1966

In February, Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, pointed out that in February 1965, the committee agreed that student tickets to the Coliseum should be free when school is in session. But Marrotte told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week that control over the policy of charging for tickets rests with Dr. Scott. “The committee can only recommend policy,” Marrotte said. However, Marrotte pointed out that the committee does have final approval over such matters as scheduling.

Scott said that his department had always previously gone on the policy that students should be admitted to 10 home games free, classifying Coliseum games as home. “Dr. Scott had been working under this 10-game rule, and that is his authority,” Marrotte said. “However, the committee didn’t realize that he was working under this.”

There are currently 10 home games set for next year, including five in Johnston Gym and five in the Coliseum. There will also be two games during Christmas recess in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament, but students will have to pay full prices for admission to the tournament. Marrotte pointed out that there is an open date in February on the schedule and that Scott has been authorized to schedule a game in the gym for that date. If this date were filled, there would then be 11 home games, which under the old policy would force students to pay admission for a Coliseum game. But under the new guidelines, students will see the 11th game free, should it be scheduled.

Dr. Scott pointed out that half-price date tickets will be sold at gym games, but that students will have to pay full price for date tickets to the Coliseum.

Dr. Burns Justifies Vietnamese Policy

“U.S. intervention in South Vietnam is fully justified,” stated Dr. James MacGregor Burns Tuesday. Burns made this statement during and following the chapel in which he discussed U.S. foreign policy from Vietnam to Africa and Cuba.

Dr. Burns described the intervention as an effort to maintain the pragmatic strategy of holding lines between the great opposing world powers which was the “implicit assumption and expectation of the Geneva Accord of 1954.” Burns stated that the Communist backdown from the Berlin blockade and the Cuban missile crisis prove the effectiveness of such a temporary strategy.

From agreement with the U.S. military program in Vietnam, Burns went on to a critique of the socio-economic program of aid to foreign countries. Again using Vietnam as an example, Dr. Burns stated that in many situations, military victories in certain sectors were canceled by the ineffectiveness of subsequent social and economic programs in these areas. He said that, despite “big talk” by Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson, the “economic aid program to South Vietnam is still faltering.”

Speaking about aid in general, Burns said that “in our aid program we should be hard-headed and revolutionary.” The fact that the Peace Corps has been such a success both abroad and in terms of Congressional approval is encouraging, but wholesale student exchanges and communications between the different social groups (i.e., professional and labor) in a wider variety of countries should be encouraged. He would also support a multilateral aid distribution agency.

Burns stated that the belief in a “Why should outsiders interfere?” philosophy has caused an immense amount of misery. He said that nations are not always successful in solving their own problems without the help of others. While agreeing that U.S. policy in the “banana republics” of South America may have been exploitative, Burns nevertheless believes that a country can maintain several mutually exclusive strategies, being exploitative yet humanitarian in a country such as India.

Burns characterized America as “a basically revolutionary country” as a result of our own political revolution against Britain and the many peaceful revolutions which have occurred since then. Too many people have a “terribly narrow view of revolution which doesn’t include a lot which doesn’t come under the Marxist aspect of revolution,” stated Dr. Burns. He said that we must learn not to fear revolutions but instead attempt to influence them for the good of the people involved as well as that of the United States.

By ED EMBREE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

James MacGregor Burns, historian, author, politician, and professor, spent Tuesday and Wednesday on campus lecturing and discussing his strategy for peace and its application to Vietnam, the revolution in American politics, and his own career.

Speaking in chapel Tuesday, Burns introduced his analysis of the contemporary world situation and the basis of future world peace. He stated that the three plans for permanent peace introduced in contemporary history, Hitler’s Nazi plan of world conquest, Communism, and pacifism, have all failed. Instead, a plan for temporary peace was developed at the Geneva Accord of 1954. Although not implicitly stated, the major powers in effect agreed to maintain peace on the basis of fences between the different spheres of political control and “real estate deals.”

PRAGMATIC STRATEGY

This policy was not designed as a plan for permanent world peace but instead is a pragmatic strategy which thus far has worked. Although he does support a ground war, Burns opposes the area bombing of North Vietnam because both its effectiveness is disputed, and it is inconsistent with the hold-the-line strategy.

In the coffee hour, Burns cited precedents in other crisis conditions where the “fence” strategy has worked in Berlin, Cuba, and Korea. He stated that the U.S. needed a hard-nosed but revolutionary outlook in foreign policy.

Tuesday evening Dr. Burns spoke in Hodson Hall on the subject of the American Political Revolution, taking issue with the popularly accepted notion that America is in a two-party political situation. He said that in fact, both the Democratic and Republican parties are further divided into Presidential and Congressional parties.

PROGRAMS THWARTED

Burns said that while President Kennedy was able to push some very significant legislation through Congress, some of his most important programs were thwarted because of the rivalries between the Presidential and Congressional factions of the Democratic party. The reason that President Johnson has had success with his legislative program is that the Democratic Presidential party is in the majority. The results of this majority have emphasized a trend in American politics, the emergence of a strong presidential government.

Dr. Burns does not see this development as a threat to personal liberty. Instead, because the Presidency more than any other governmental body expresses the consensus of American opinion, it is one of the primary defenders against encroachments on personal freedom. Instead of the former checks and balances, Burns stated that three external checks have arisen outside the governmental system. Burns cited the Bill of Rights protection of free speech and the excellence of journalism, fair and honest elections, and a strong opposition party as newly emerged checks.

FUTURE PREDICTIONS

Burns ended his lecture with three hesitant predictions on the future of the American political system. He stated that Congress will remain Johnsonian through 1966. However, “unless Johnson intervenes dynamically in the 1966 campaigns,” he will not maintain the necessary control over Congress to continue the state of Presidential power which exists today. This will cause the reappearance of multi-party politics and the subsequent deadlocks for perhaps the next 10 years. Eventually, Burns feels that America will revert permanently to Presidential power and eliminate 4-party politics. Asked about the future for federalism, or state influence in the coming system, Burns replied that such influence would decline, but the pluralism which federalism has formally represented will be expressed in different ways.

Tuesday morning Dr. Burns spoke to the History 74 class on the subject of writing histories and the difference between the long-term influence of history books as opposed to novels.

Students To Vote About Rules Court MondayVote Disputed

Paul Marion, Senior Class President, announced yesterday that students will vote again on the proposed Student Regulations Court because the exact extent of the power delegated to the Student Council to establish such a court in Monday's referendum was unclear. In the vote to keep or repeal the gambling rule, it was repealed 426 to 110, while the hazing rule was kept by a vote of 283 to 258.

According to Marion, the result of the referendum gave the Student Council authority to make the necessary changes in the Student Body Constitution to establish a Student Regulations Court. Questions about the constitutionality of the exact nature of the authority have led the Student Council to interpret the vote as giving power to draw up proposals for the court which must then be approved by the student body by a two-thirds vote as any amendment to the constitution. At its Monday night meeting, the council will determine the specific amendments that must be made to legally form the court. Students will vote on the proposal "about a week later," according to Marion.

The court will consist of the presidents of the three upper classes, the Freshman Advisor, and the Vice President of the Senior Class. The Senior Class President will serve as Chairman. The new court will use the same system as the Honor Court. The Investigating Committee will look into the facts of any violation, and the defense of the accused will be directed by the Defense Advisor. The idea of the regulations court and the referendum on the gambling and hazing rules results from a study by the Honor Court and the Student Council.

Students also voted Monday to eliminate the student rule against gambling and retained the student body rule against hazing. The Faculty Religious Life Committee will meet with the Trustee Committee on Religious and Social Life, Church and Alumni Relationships Wednesday to explain the faculty committee’s recommendation to abolish compulsory Vespers. The Trustee Committee is expected to recommend action to the Trustees at their spring meeting Thursday.

The faculty committee presented its report to the faculty in April at its regular monthly meeting, but the report was tabled until the next meeting, in keeping with a regular practice that such matters are not voted on within 48 hours of presentation. The faculty had originally scheduled a meeting last Tuesday for consideration of the Vespers question, but the meeting has been postponed until May 10. If the Trustees take action on the question, their vote is expected to be final.

The Trustees are also expected to vote on final approval of a revised set of bylaws which passed the first reading at their fall meeting. Included in the new bylaws is a stipulation that instructors may be denied the right to vote on matters of college policy. The Trustees will also be electing a new president of the Board. Present president J. McDowell Richards is scheduled to leave the Board, according to a policy for all Trustees elected by the Alumni Association. The new policy makes all alumni-elected Trustees ineligible for membership for one year after serving two four-year terms.

By MARK ROBINSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“This was when I was doing The Wackiest Ship in the Army. We were down at this navy base, and they had some old World War II subs down there. So I got in one with some other guys, and I pretended I was a sub captain. So I was down there blowing horns and shuckin’ around, and I blew one ballast tank. And the shore patrol came down, and the admiral came down, and I had to pay a thousand bucks. Don’t laugh, man, it’s not funny. I mean, there was a raid, Japs all over the place.”

That is a Fred Smoot story. From anybody else, it would be hard to believe, but he is the kind of guy things like that happen to. He's also the kind of guy who would switch on the PA system in the Union and say, “Paging Miss Amelia Earhart. Your plane is ready in the lobby.”

“I went to UCLA, where I majored in cinematography. We made some fine movies. Hey, maybe you’ve heard of this one: The Day of the Painter.” There was a long silence. “Well, maybe you’ve heard of this one: Mickey Mouse Meets Walt Disney.”

Smoot enjoys his role of “resident comedian” at Davidson. “Oh, yeah, man it’s a gas. This way I can walk around causing trouble, disrupting classes, you know.”

“What’s going on up there? A chem lab? Hey, you guys! Hey up there! Make some sauce! Whip me up a little sauce. Whip me up a little juice! Come on! Make some sauce!”

“You know college audiences are the best in the world, also the most critical. There’s a sort of awareness with college audiences. They’re listening to you, they want you to say something.”

“I live in California. The home of the freeways. You drive along, and there is a wreck every two blocks.”

Smoot knows Davidson and its people well. He even remembers people from his appearance last year. Small audiences do not detract from his enjoyment of working here, since, “It’s a gas here. Nobody’s worrying about his bottle or his woman. They’ve got more time to listen to you.”

Smoot To Give Special Show

Fred Smoot will make a special appearance tonight in the Morrison Room. The previously unscheduled show is possible because of complications over a planned appearance at Duke tonight which did not work out.

Leadership Fraternity Honors Ten Students

Ten student leaders were tapped for membership into leadership honorary fraternity Omicron Delta Kappa during the spring tapping ceremonies yesterday. William S. Lee, a vice-president of Duke Power Company in Charlotte, was the speaker for the program.

ODK membership is awarded to these students who have exhibited meritorious leadership in five general areas of campus activities: scholarship, athletics, social and religious functions, publications and forensic, dramatics, music and other cultural activities. Membership in ODK is Davidson's highest leadership award.

John Callender, a native of Jacksonville, Fla., is a history honors major. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and has served as secretary of the Union Board, section editor of the Wildcat Handbook and Inklings. A member of Pi Kappa Alpha, Callender has twice been awarded Charles A. Dana and Guttman scholarships, and he has received a Rotary Foundation Fellowship for graduate study next year at the University of Saint Andrews in Scotland.

Vince Foster is from Hope, Ark., and is a psychology major. Foster was a member of YDC and the Business-Economics Club. He attended an SAE leadership school and was a co-rush chairman for SAE. At the present, he is chairman of the Social Council.

Louis Lesesne is editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. A resident of Kingstree, S.C., Lesesne is treasurer of Pi Kappa Alpha. He is a former president of the Conservative Club and is now secretary-treasurer. He is a history major and belongs to Philanthropic Literary Society.

Paul Marion was president of the Junior Class this year and will be president of the Senior Class next year. He is a past managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and has served as alumni secretary for Kappa Sigma. Marion is a history major from Charlotte.

Bill McGuire, also from Charlotte, is a business-economics major. A Distinguished Military Student, he is a member of Scabbard and Blade and holds the rank of cadet lieutenant colonel in ROTC. He has been business manager of Quips & Cranks and the Wildcat Handbook, and is publications chairman of the College Union. A past House and Grounds Chairman of Alpha Tau Omega, McGuire has been on the Dean's List.

Randy McKnight is also a member of Scabbard and Blade and is a captain in ROTC. A Dean’s List student majoring in English, McKnight is a Project Opportunity worker. A member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, he has been on the Student Council and is a cheerleader.

Chuck Matthews, from Winston-Salem, is now taking part in the Washington Semester Program. A member of Beta Theta Pi, Matthews is president of the student body. A political science major, he was second vice president of the Student Council and a member of the Young Democrats Club.

Bill Rikard is Freshman Advisor and is currently a hall counselor. He has served Phi Delta Theta as IFC representative, as pledge trainer, and as vice president. Next year, Rikard will be on the Student Council, function as the president of the D Club, and hold down an end spot on the football team. The Canton history major is also a member of the Student Judiciary Committee.

Murray Smith comes from Orlando, Fla., and is majoring in philosophy. He is president of the YMCA and a member of the Religious Life Committee. A McConnell Scholar, Smith is a Dean's List student and an ATO.

Steve Smith is from Camilla, Ga., is a member of Phi Delta Theta, and majors in economics. A second-team All-Conference halfback last year, he has also been a member of the Southern Conference All-Academic team for two years. A company commander in ROTC, Smith is a Distinguished Military Student and a member of Scabbard and Blade. A Stowe Scholar, he has received a $1,000 scholarship for graduate study from the NCAA. He is president of the D Club.