FREE FORM

Whitehead Reads, Discusses New Poetic Work, ‘Domains’
By TOM WHEATLEY Staff Writer

Poet James Whitehead, assistant professor of English at the University of Arkansas, gave readings on campus Monday from Domains, his new book of free form poetry. He spoke first to Dr. James S. Purcell's English class second period and later in the College Union Monday night.

Born in St. Louis, Whitehead grew up on the Mississippi and received his undergraduate degree in philosophy and MA degree at Vanderbilt. He received his MFA degree from the University of Iowa, where he was a student in a writer’s workshop from 1963-65. Whitehead, who taught English at Millsaps College before going to Arkansas, teaches creative writing on both the graduate and undergraduate levels and is also working on a novel and a second volume of poetry.

Puffing regularly on a cigarette at the evening session, Whitehead explained his work simply and clearly, making various comments on the writing of his poetry. The name Domains is taken from the final poem of his book. He said that his poetry is written in simple verse and is limited in scope. The subject matter of the book is of “tensions between dailies with skin on it” and draws both good and bad conclusions about life. The second domain is love, or more specifically “what goes on between men and women.”

The title poem, “Domains,” is free in form. It tells of “politics and the rugged brotherhood of man.” Among the lines of love poetry is “For the Lady at Her Mirror,” which tells about a husband who observes his wife's distaste of seeing herself grow old. Another, “Walking Around,” is a poem of celebration that tells of his observing a woman's buttocks while he was taking a walk. From his “regional or political poems” comes “One for The Road.” This dramatic poem tells of “a truck driver’s celebration of his lady,” and so it is also “a bit of a love poem also.” “Swimming” is a story of middle-class boys swimming in a river when confronted with “yeomen folk, rednecks.” In “A Local Man Goes to the Killing Ground,” Whitehead tries to imagine what a decent local white man would think if he went to the “murder ground,” or a lynching. “The Politician's Pledge” is a politician's promise to provide air conditioning units to cool off the people who had been burning down buildings. One eight-line poem “of progress” has a title practically as long as the poem itself, “On Hearing That the State Economic Council Believes $5,000 a Year For Every White Family Will Calm Things Down.”

Whitehead said that he had often been asked if he ever found inspiration for any of his poems from reading newspapers. The only one done this way was “The Young Deputy,” which tells the impressions of the young deputy on dragging a river for a body or bodies. He concludes that “man often is able to outdo some of the unhappy creatures in nature.”

Committee 67 Early Applicants

According to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, 67 Early Decision Plan candidates have been chosen for next year’s freshman class. A total of 87 applicants, 25 percent fewer than last year's number, sought admission. Both Early and Regular Decision applications have dropped about 25 percent this year. White said that the reason for this decline is “the drop in the number of college applicants and the increase in openings in new and enlarging institutions.” White also stated that “competition has been tough among Davidson applicants in the past. The general impression that we get from guidance counselors is that, unless a student is very, very well qualified, he is advised not to apply to Davidson. To correct this decline in applications,” White continued, “we will hold four meetings on Wednesdays and Fridays for the next two weeks to get students who are willing to talk to guidance counselors.”

BEAUTY AND TALENT

Valerie Bobbett, Reigning Queen Miss Florence, Slates Campus Violin Recital

Valerie Bobbett, Miss Florence, S.C. of 1967, will present a violin recital at 8:15 p.m., Wednesday in Hodson Hall. The program is free and open to the public. Miss Bobbett has won several state-level music contests and has represented the state of South Carolina in national competition. She has been a member of both the Florence and Charleston, S.C. symphony orchestras. The violinist will present her first three recitals in Davidson, Florence, and Philadelphia, Pa. In her program, she will give a repeat performance of her winning talent for the Miss Florence contest, the “Scherzo Tarantelle.” Miss Bobbett, a former student of Mrs. Blaine Richey, who is concertmaster of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, is presently enrolled at the Curtis School of Music in Philadelphia. She will perform the “Sonata in C Minor” by Veracini, the Beethoven “Romance in F Major” and the “Introduction and Rondo Capriccio” by Saint-Saëns. Also scheduled are two Fritz Kreisler arrangements, the Mozart “Rondo in G Major” and “Variations on a theme of Corelli” by Tartini.

Zippy is coming December 16. Do your Christmas shopping early for her or for him.Sponsored by the local chapter of the American Guild of Organists, a concert will be held Monday, at 4:45 p.m., in Hodson Hall. There will be three groups featured in the short and informal program. Leonard Tyson, Tony Debruyn, and Frank Ball will present “Duet for Clarinet and Bassoon” by Ludwig Von Beethoven; “Invention for Two Clarinets” by Bach; and the allegro and rondo movements of “Divertimento” by Mozart. Brass members of the Wind Ensemble will present “Symphony for Brass Choir” by Victor Ewald. The Davidson Madrigal Singers will present the traditional Christmas songs, “Patapan,” “Bring a Torch, Jeanette Isabella,” “While By My Sheep,” and “The Holly and the Ivy.”

Man's Diamond Ring $200
NO MONEY DOWN
JEWELERS

Guidance counselors, principals, teachers, and students in their areas and interest them in Davidson. “We feel that students rather than professional men will be more effective,” White concluded.

Dr. Frank Bliss, professor of English, directed the reading of two medieval mystery plays, “The Parliament of Heaven: The Annunciation and Conception” and “Birth of Christ,” at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church.

The Davidsonian
December 9, 1966
Page Three

ST. ALBAN’S PRESENTS PLAY READINGS
(l-r) Hansford Epes, Ray McMillin, John Curtis, Dr. Bliss, Mrs. Wilmer Welsh, and Mrs. Dan Rhodes. (Staff Photo by Weems)

Last night, the readers were:

Change In Government Discussed By Council

The Student Council recently launched a program to consider student proposals for altering the present system of student government. The council formed the Student Government Revision Committee to lead the study. The committee is composed of Ben Cannon, Mike Powell, and Bill Ritard. According to Cannon, the job of the committee is to think of improvements for the existing system of government and to consider all suggestions from students. Thus far, Cannon has been working on a plan which has received favorable comments from the administration and faculty. A poll, also devised by Cannon, will be taken probably next semester to determine student opinion on the matter. Cannon's plan advocates the formation of a Student Senate.

IFC Announces Plans For Orphanage Party

The Interfraternity Council at its Wednesday meeting announced plans for a Christmas party for orphans next Tuesday and held discussions with freshmen to explain various aspects of fraternity life. Forty-eight children from Barium Springs Orphanage will arrive on campus by bus late Tuesday afternoon. Four will be taken to each fraternity house. There they will have supper, after which Santa Claus will come to distribute individual gifts to them. Shortly after Christmas, the IFC will hold discussions on various freshman halls for the purpose of explaining fraternity life and the financial obligation involved in joining a fraternity. Questionnaires have already been distributed to freshmen inquiring whether they desired such discussions. Since some halls voted against this, IFC decided that discussions would be held only on those halls that voted favorably. Tommy Caldwell, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, was elected IFC Social Council representative, replacing Ben Cannon, who resigned. President Mike Boone announced.

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
217 N. Tryon St, 375-9724

Cannon's plan includes a provision for a smaller body, the Executive Council, derived from the Senate. This council, composed possibly of the Student Body president, Honor Court chairman, chairman of the Student Body Regulations Court, IFC president, freshman advisor, and the Social Council president, would be more flexible and workable and could also possibly include members of the faculty. "What the Student Council intends,” added Cannon, “is to take the initiative in an effort to set up a government which would be more adaptable to an eventual communal government.” Cannon explained that the committee is involved with the revision of student body regulations and the Freshman Council as well as the Student Council.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
DAVIDSON, N. C.
All Brands of Motor Oil
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
Telephone 892-9374
— CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
West Blvd. at Remount Rd
Phone 376-2576

24-hour Wrecker Service
N. C. INSPECTION STATION NO. 9907
Former Operator of the Gulf here in Davidson

Oh-oh, better check the punch
John Heck & Son
MOORESVILLE
Use Your Charge Account
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Jewelers of Trusted Reputation for Three Generations

Coca-Cola makes any campus “get-together” a party. Coca-Cola has the taste you never get tired of... always refreshing. That’s why things go better with Coke... after Coke... after Coke.
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
CONCORD, NORTH CAROLINA