BAILEY ENTERS POLITICAL WORLD (See Page Two)

VOL. LVI

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1966

EX-BENCH-WARMER BURNS OLD RECORDS (See Page Four)

NUMBER EIGHT

FREDERICKSEN AT HEAD

Citizens To Protest I-77 Link

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Plans by the North Carolina Highway Dept. for a thoroughfare circling Davidson and Cornelius have sparked opposition from a group
of Davidson citizens headed by Dr. J. M. Fredericksen, professor of chemistry. Cornelius previously had approved plans for a two-lane
road with limited access at a projected cost of about $1 million. The road would be about six miles long
and would be completed several years from now at the earliest. But at a board meeting held in Cornelius earlier
this week, commissioners agreed to reconsider their approval of plans for the loop road around the town, when citizens voiced
strong opposition to the road project.

According to Fredericksen, there is a petition for rejecting the plans as they stand. The residents who are protesting say
that the eastern loop should be moved farther east to avoid residential areas. The petition has been signed by about
125 citizens in eastern Davidson. This includes “the whole area that’s affected except one or two I haven't been able
to contact,” said Fredericksen.

According to Davidson Mayor Frank L. Jackson, the first official discussion of the plans will be at the regular public
board meeting Nov. 21. “It's only a preliminary report,” said Fredericksen. But, he emphasized, “preliminary reports have a way of
becoming real.”

According to the N. C. Highway Dept., the road is a long-range project, designed to meet traffic needs of the
coming 10-20 years. Overpasses and underpasses are planned at the two points where the road will cross the railroad tracks.
Part of the purpose of the new road is to eliminate a bottleneck of local traffic that would otherwise result
when Interstate 77 is completed on the west side of the two towns.

The loop will enter Davidson on the west side of the railroad tracks and run parallel to Main Street, until
it crosses Main Street near the northern city limits. After turning to the southeast, the highway will cross Grey Road,
Concord Road, and Pine Road before entering Cornelius. The road will join U.S. 21 through Cornelius. From U.S. 21, it
moves north into Davidson again.

PROPOSED CIRCULAR ROUTE

Vick To Resign Post As ‘Miscellany’ Editor

Election Changes Advised

Charles Vick has announced plans to resign as the editor of the Miscellany, Davidson's literary magazine. “I did not announce
my resignation at the regular Student Council meeting Monday night,” Vick said. “I do intend to soon resign and will
advise the new editor when he is appointed.

CHANGE

“What I did was propose a change in the way in which the editors of the Miscellany are selected.” When
asked why he had run for the Miscellany post, Vick stated that he wanted to be the editor. He said
that he plans to resign because he feels that the magazine would profit from this move. By allowing an underclassman
to be editor, a firm foundation would be laid for the next year’s publications.

CONTINUITY

Vick emphasized the importance of continuity. “All we are trying to do is establish a magazine worthy of the college,
one of which this entire community can be proud. We do hope that the circulation will increase and in order
to do this, there must be some guarantee of continuity. This is not to say that the Miscellany cannot change.
My changing the format this year demonstrates this. But it must have some foundation in talent, taste, and sound technical
policy.”

NOT SECRETIVE

Vick said that he did not go about this resignation in any secretive manner. “I don’t discuss my weekend plans,
my review grades, or my editorial activities. I discussed my resignation with the advisory board of the Miscellany. If anyone
wishes to discuss this matter, I'll be glad to talk with them.”

Trustee Meet Called ‘Quietest In Years’

The Homecoming meeting of the Board of Trustees was “probably the quietest in years," according to Fred Sackett, assistant to
the president. It had the highest attendance in several years, Sackett commented, because of the revised committee structure which now
places every trustee on a committee.

The trustees commended the faculty and administration on the work on the religious life program and joined them in support
of it. A report on the Ford Challenge Program revealed that an additional $638,377 has been raised since June 30,
bringing the total as of Oct. 10 to $3,153,790. On the basis ofCash contributions received through June 30. The Ford
Foundation has already contributed $940,076. In addition, the board voted a statement of esteem to Dr. J. McDowell Richards, past
board president and president of Columbia Seminary.

CHARLES VICK

Council Amends Rules
By BOB BUCHANAN
Staff Writer

Two sections of the Student Council By-Laws were amended Monday night at the Student Council meeting. Both changes concerned the
method by which the editor of the Miscellany is chosen. Section 2/a was changed to elect the Student Body Officers:
the Officers of the YMCA: the editors of The Davidsonian and the Wildcat Handbook; the President of the College Union
and the Cheerleaders. In other words, the editor of the Miscellany would not be so elected. Section 12 was changed
to read: “The Board of Advisors of the Miscellany shall determine and continuously maintain the general aims of the magazine
and shall assist the editor in achieving these aims. The Board shall meet once a month and at those times
deemed necessary by the editor, or that member of the Board acting as chairman. The Board shall select the editor
from the staff on the basis of ability, talent, and performance.”

According to Charles Vick, editor of the magazine and the sponsor of the amendments, “An editor appointed on the basis
of editorial talent and dedication would be superior to a popularly elected editor. By changing the By-Laws, the Board can
appoint an editor.”

“The students still control the magazine because the students are the contributors.” Vick stated that this action was by no
means an anti-student body move. “The Board is no threat to the students. It is rather composed of those persons
whose concern for the students is as well demonstrated in this as in their many other functions. Besides, they know
something about what they are doing which is a great help to an editor in a school without a department
of journalism.”

Student Body President Chuck Matthews said that the change could be reviewed at any time. It was passed by a
near unanimous vote, Paul Marion being the only member to oppose the change.

Who’s Who Recognizes Twenty-One Seniors

Twenty-one seniors have been selected by the faculty-student committee for recognition in Who's Who in American Universities and Colleges. This
annual publication includes students who have demonstrated outstanding scholastic leadership in a variety of activities. The selection is made by
a group of 17 campus figures. This group includes three juniors as student representatives, three faculty members selected at large,
and a group of administration members involved in student activities. The program is under the direction of the Dean of
Students.

Mike Booe, an English major from Little Rock, Ark., is president of the Interfraternity Council, treasurer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
and secretary of the Social Council. Booe is also a section editor for the Wildcat Handbook.

Tom Brown, a history major from Blacksburg, Va., is vice president of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity and president of
Pi Kappa Alpha. He is a Distinguished Military Student and an ROTC battalion commander. A member of the Philanthropic Literary
Society, Brown is a staff member of the Wildcat Handbook.

Don Carroll, a history major from Scottsville, Va., is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and
the Student Body regulations board. He works closely with the freshmen class, being this year’s director of the Freshman Camp
and a hall counselor. Carroll is also a member of THE DAVIDSONIAN and the Quips and Cranks staffs. He is
defense advisor of the Honor Court.

Gary DeVane, pre-med major from Merritt Island, Fla., is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon
chemistry fraternity, and is president of Alpha Tau Omega. He is on the Investigation Board of the Honor Court, an
ROTC Distinguished Military Student, and a hall counselor.

Tom Dews, a sociology major from Charleston, W. Va., is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, Fellowship of Christian
Athletes, and Kappa Alpha. Dews has played four years of football for Davidson and is this year’s team captain.

Ed Dwelle from Jacksonville, Fla., has a double major in philosophy and English. He is a member of the Eumenean
Literary Society, the Publications Board, and Alpha Psi Omega honorary dramatics society. Dwelle is also an associate editor of THE
DAVIDSONIAN, co-editor of the Quips and Cranks, and a member of the Board of Advisors of The Miscellany. Dwelle participates
in YMCA Tutorial Project and a Stimulus Discussion Group.

Vince Foster, a psychology major from Hope, Ark., is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary leadership fraternity. He is
chairman of the Social Council, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and a member of the Young Democrats. He has served
on the Summer Honor Court.

Tom Frist, an English major from Mobile, Ala., has been secretary-treasurer of the Student Council, president of the Freshman Council,
and is a member of the YMCA Cabinet and president of Beta Theta Pi.

(See Seniors, page six)

Site of Proposed Warning Sign
Town Seeks RR Signal
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Mayor F. L. Jackson of Davidson has announced that a warning system will be installed soon where Griffith St., the
access road to U.S. 21 crosses the railroad tracks, if current plans are followed through successfully. Installation of the signal
light, which will be of the cantilever type, is a joint project of the State Highway Commission and Southern Railway
estimated to cost about $14,000.

Jackson said that he received a copy of a letter from the highway commission to Southern Railway about two weeks
ago. The letter stated that signals are needed at this location and that the Highway Commission is willing to assume
90 percent of the estimated cost. If Southern Railway is ready to assume 10 percent, said the letter, then the
project can begin. According to L. H. Smith, representative of Southern Railway in Asheville, the plans are being processed and
some decision should be reached within a month.
