The Davidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1966

PAGE TWO

Who Gets Priority

One of the goals of the Blue Sky Committee is that of reducing faculty teaching loads to nine hours, from
the fairly standard 12 hours now prevailing here. The reduced load is virtually being forced on the college by the
interest of improved teaching, as well as competition for teachers from other colleges. Admittedly, some of the faculty load can
be reduced by reducing graduation requirements. But the fact remains that a certain variety of courses must still be offered.
And doubtless some increase in the size of the faculty will be made. But reducing faculty load by 25 per
cent is a drastic step and cannot be remedied by such makeshift measures as mentioned above. It will be necessary
for the college to make a financial commitment to ensure the efficacy of the Blue Sky Committee’s work.

Indeed, even the 12-1 student-faculty ratio that the college now boasts has little relevance to most students. Very rarely is
a student enrolled in such a small class, unless it should be either one of the more unpopular or else
esoteric courses. In departments where small classes are most desirable, particularly those of the humanities, classes of 50 or 60
are not unusual. Professors have little choice but to structure their classes on the lecture format when faced with such
a situation.

The relative abundance of funds for such a commitment is one we are in no position to discuss, since even
the faculty is given little insight into specific uses of funds. But there is obviously money available for purposes which
the administration deems necessary, as evidenced by the commitment this week of the president to employ additional security officers for
the specific purpose of enforcing the college’s ban on student drinking. We would suggest money be spent on first things
first. But then, what does come first?

A Case For Early Exams

Last week, as we pointed in these columns to steps Hollins College is taking in implementing a thorough curriculum revision,
there appeared a short news story to the effect that pre-Christmas exams had slight chance of being implemented here. The
two appear at first glance unrelated, but one particular (and very integral part) of the Hollins changes concerns this very
aspect. For, at midyear at Hollins, students take a four-week independent study period, which may not even take place on
the campus.

The primary reason given by the faculty’s Academic Scheduling Committee was an awkwardness in scheduling which would be left by
the “extra month” after first semester exams. Certainly, there is nothing new about the idea of early exams — a
number of other schools in the area have successfully hurdled the barriers inherent in such a problem. But the beauty
of the situation is that not only would the desired early exams be instituted, but it would offer an opportunity
for putting in a valuable academic reform, in the form of the new independent study period.

Paul Denise, a New England sociologist, writing in the Spring 1955 Issue, points to the need for more communications between
the educationally advantaged and the world around them. “Students must be helped to transcend the orderly, monastic detachment of the
university and its comforting conviction that its members do not directly share the problems of the world outside the institution,”
he says. He goes on to point out that students, in so doing, could combine elements of the curriculum with
the extra-curricular, to form what he calls the “para-curricular”: “as experiences wherein the interdependence of learning and of living are
recognized and are utilized to enhance both learning and living, to make both more vital.”

Such an attitude can obviously be incorporated into the regular school year, as evidenced by the STEP program, but academic
pressures often make the desired amount of involvement difficult or impossible. A four-week period devoted exclusively to such para-curricular activity
could well serve to broaden the outlook of the Davidson student, who may possibly be even more limited in his
outlook than the typical undergraduate.

Keep It Moving

A handy rule of thumb at Davidson is that if there’s a receptacle available, the buck will be passed to
it. Such was the disposition of the Academic Scheduling Committee's inquiry into the possibility of pre-Christmas exams. In turning the
matter over to the Blue Sky Committee, the regular faculty committee may be setting a bad precedent in refusing to
take action. Despite predictions that the Blue Sky Committee will have some proposals ready for faculty consideration by next fall,
it will probably be two years before substantial changes are made. For every proposed change to be referred to the
curriculum revision committee would not only greatly overload its members, it would cause two years of virtual stagnation.

Role For The Future

Two separate items crossing our desk this week pointed to the hope as well as the challenge facing the small
private liberal arts college. In a routine announcement that Davidson ranks third in the nation in percentage of graduates receiving
Danforth Fellowships, the fact emerged that the first 10 schools in rankings were private liberal arts colleges with enrollments of
less than 1,500. And the top 25 schools are all private schools.

But two articles in the current Saturday Review indicate that all is not peaches and cream with the liberal arts
college. In a review of a book by Earl J. McGrath, Paul Woodring points to the cutthroat competition for federal
grants for research and building expansion. The prestige of the graduate faculties draws eager freshmen who are subsequently disillusioned by
indifference to undergraduate needs. “McGrath believes that the best chance for survival of the smaller independent and church-related colleges lies
in doing what they can do best: providing a common core of intellectual experience,” Woodring says.

But even this may prove more difficult than it sounds. A separate article in the same issue points to the
drawbacks of teaching undergraduates. Apart from the vast amounts of sheer drudgery, says Andrew Hacker, associate professor of government at
Cornell and author of the article, there are more serious disadvantages. He points to the lack of real intellectual drive
in most undergraduates, who are more interested in situating themselves in “upper-middle-class lives, neighborhoods and careers.” Hacker sees little hope
for drawing outstanding teaching at the undergraduate level, when the more satisfying work with highly-motivated graduate students calls.

But the Danforth figures prove that there is a role for the small college which is willing to acknowledge its
role in the intellectual community and to stress the stimulation of a genuine educational experience. Davidson’s record of sending over
70 per cent of its alumni to graduate school is somewhat misleading, because of the high percentage that enter professional
schools, such as law and medical school. Despite Davidson's selectivity in choosing its students, there exists this danger of middle-class
orientation. But the Danforth figures should provide encouragement for Davidson as a primarily intellectual, rather than pre-professional, institution.

Now It's Known

An editor, though it be painful to say so, is no more entitled than anyone else to have his voice
heeded; he has no inside track to wisdom. About all he can claim is that his major occupation is following
the sad news of the world, and he may therefore be more familiar than most people with what goes on.
—Vermont Royster in The Wall Street Journal

PEACE ON EARTH

GOP Conservative Wing Is Real Election Winner

Dear Editor:

Numerous articles have appeared recently in the public and collegiate press advising the Republican Party, in effect, to abandon its
principles and to adopt those recently propounded by the National Democrat Party and the Americans for Democratic Action. This advice
rests upon the assumption of two premises: (1) that the victors in the late election were members of the so-called
moderate wing of the Republican Party, that of Rockefeller, Romney, and Brooke, who had rejected the philosophy held by Senator
Goldwater; and (2) that the “Goldwater ideology” is in some way alien to the traditional principles and policies of the
Republican Party.

In this past election, I should like to note, the greatest victories were not won by Republican moderates but by
Republican conservatives of the Goldwater-Nixon-Reagan wing. The largest margin secured by any candidate this year was that of Governor-elect Reagan,
while the largest percentage margin was that of Governor Rhodes of Ohio, a conservative by most standards. In the Senate
races among the large states, Senator Tower won re-election by the largest margin of any large state Republican, the slightly
smaller margin of Senator Griffin of Michigan being next largest. Of Republican governors elected or re-elected this year, nine may
be considered moderates, while 15 would hold themselves conservatives.

These inappropriate advisors further point to the coattails of Governor Romney, in returning the Michigan Republican Party almost to its
pre-1964 status. They, however, fail to mention the coattails of Governors Rhodes, Reagan, Levander, and Williams, who, in several cases
greatly improved upon the pre-1964 status in their respective states, as did also Senators Curtis, Miller and Tower.

The second premise suggested is far less valid. The philosophy of Senator Goldwater, as expressed in his votes in the
Congress, is far more in line with traditional Republican beliefs than those of Senators Javits, Kuchel, or Scott. The policies
sponsored and supported by Messrs. Javits, Kuchel, Romney, Rockefeller of New York, Brooke, and Hatfield — e.g., the extension of
Medicare, Vietnam withdrawal, Rent Subsidy, Repeal of 14(b), Open Housing — are viewed with horror by the great majority of
both Republicans and voters. These men have served to undermine the Republican position in the Congress and in the press;
they have supplied necessary votes to ensure, in some cases, passage of such laws; they have urged that the Republican
Party remake itself in the image of the A.D.A., whose support in elections they generally enjoy; they demand the support
of conservative Republicans at elections, yet consistently refuse to support Republican conservatives when nominated for public office.

I should, in closing, like to inquire as to the reasons for which the Republican Party is lately so besieged
with such a multitude of advisors so solicitous of the well-being of our party. Such advisors, not excluding Mr. Seamans,
a member of the Young Democrats Club here and an ardent and unrepentant supporter of Lyndon Johnson, his principles and
his programs, in 1964, would have us nominate, and, presumably, elect, men who would continue rather than correct the errors
of the Great Society.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Who would preserve the failings and fallacies of contemporary “Liberalism” rather than provide the necessary constructive alternatives to government actions,
which these times require; who would repeat again the tired clichés of the welfare state which have proven themselves incapable
of solving the problems of modern society. The Republican Party, to secure victory in 1968, must present itself to the
American people as the vehicle for the rejection of Lyndon B. Johnson and the Great Society, nominating on all levels
candidates willing and able to offer sufficient measures for the problems of our age.

HUGH J. BEARD, JR.
Davidson College

Fraternities Still Valuable Tradition

Dear Editor:

The “cold, cruel world” which swallowed up Buck Lawrimore ‘66 has also ingested other, less palatable organisms of the Davidson
graduate variety such as myself, who were afflicted with the “awful sickness” known in the vernacular as “fraternity-itis.” The thing
that puzzles me is that, though I must have suffered immensely and exuded all manner of malodorous foulness, symptomatic of
my vitiated state, I was never cognizant of my illness. In fact, I even enjoyed fraternity life and the many
adventures I shared with my “sick” compatriots.

But not being possessed of the time, inclination, or articulate quality to adequately present an apologetic concerning fraternities at Davidson,
I merely make reference to the obvious — that something like 75 percent of the student body sees the necessity
for their existence. The remainder of the college population, be they gnomes, lizards, trolls, superminds, idealists, loners, or just plain
different, will doubtless acknowledge that fraternities, even with their multitudinous limitations, have enough merit to warrant continuance on the campus.

The purpose of this letter is not to personally attack Lawrimore but to question the efficacy of his logic. His
whole spiel seems nothing more than a rambling tirade against prejudice, a coadunation of non sequiturs, which ends with a
vague indictment of fraternities as the progenitor of all such hypocrisy, discrimination, and feelings of superiority. Traits such as these
are no more engendered by fraternal life than they would be by life in an “eating club” and this, offered
as a possible solution to Davidson's “problem,” seems more ludicrous than the complete dissolution of fraternities.

Maybe Buck’s motives are good, in that he would like to see everyone happy with the fraternity situation at Davidson,
but as some sagacious individual of yore once pointed out, “you can't have your cake and eat it too.” So
let's leave well enough alone: fraternities are a Davidson tradition, just like egg salads at Mary’s, tall-boys at Hattie’s, and
the skin-flicks at Boyle's.

BILL DONALDSON
Class of '66
Memphis, Tenn.

Untidy Coiffure Banishes Usher

Dear Editor:

At last week's basketball game with Furman, I was witness to yet another example of the small-mindedness of the administration
of our big-time athletic department. Roger Ward, an English-Richardson Scholar, was working as an usher in Johnston gym: pay rate,
80 cents an hour. Midway through the freshman game, Dr. Tom Scott ordered Mr. Ward to usher only in the
seclusion of the balcony. It seems that Dr. Scott thought Mr. Ward’s longer than average hair would be bad for
old D. C.’s image.

Nearly all the spectators at Tuesday night's game were students, faculty or local athletic supporters. Surely these people know of
Davidson's outstanding opportunity in having Richardson Scholars in our community. And most people are aware that all nations do not
have exactly the same habits of hair wear as Davidson, N. C. Davidson's athletic program is growing out of its
smallness into greatness, perhaps. Hopefully the men who rule this growing empire will let their minds grow a little also.

WM. E. WHEELER
Davidson College

Fools’ Names And Fools’ Faces

For You Other Wise Men

No matter what the Christmas season may signify to each of us individually, most of us, I think, have some
story or happening which catches the essence of the Christmas spirit for us and brings a private joy — frequently
difficult to communicate to others — into our heart. Somehow new light and truth come to us continually through the
old symbols. I happen to have just such a story, and I want to share it with you tonight. I
cannot be sure that it will “turn you on” as it does me, but I can hope that it will.
The full version of the story is a small book entitled The Story of the Other Wise Man by Henry
Van Dyke and is available in paperback. I urge you to read it if you have a chance; the abridged
version which I am presenting is a poor substitute for the original.

“You know the story of the Three Wise Men of the East, and how they traveled from far away to
offer their gifts at the manger-cradle in Bethlehem. But have you ever heard the story of the Other Wise Man,
who also saw the star in its rising, and set out to follow it, yet did not arrive with his
brethren in the presence of the young child Jesus?”

The name of this fourth pilgrim was Artaban, a Parthian nobleman and Magi or priest of Zoroaster. He had agreed
to meet his three companions among the Magi—Casper, Melchoir and Balthazar—at a temple in Babylonia within 10 days after the
expected star out of Jacob shone again. From the temple they would set out together for Jerusalem to see and
worship the promised one who would be born King of Israel. Now Artaban had sold his house and his possessions
and had bought three great jewels—a sapphire, a ruby and a pearl to carry as a tribute to the King,
and he awaited only the sign in the sky. And at the appointed time, the two great planets met, and
Artaban set out to meet the King.

For 10 days and nine nights, Artaban pressed onward to the West until he arrived at nightfall of the 10th
day, beneath the shattered walls of populous Babylon. But he could not rest for the temple was three hours away,
and he must be there by midnight if he would find his comrades waiting. As he passed by a grove
of date-palms, he came across the pallid body of a Hebrew exile ravaged by fever. Artaban thought he was dead,
and he turned away to be gone but he heard a ghostly sigh from the man. At first, Artaban felt
a dumb resentment. If he lingered, he would miss the caravan and lose his quest. But if he went on,
the man would die. Should he risk the great reward of his divine faith for the sake of a single
deed of human love? He made a prayer for direction from the God of truth and purity. And he turned
back to the sick man and restored his strength as only a skillful healer of disease can do. The poor
Hebrew was overcome with wonder at this unasked for service and was ashamed that he had nothing to offer in
return. But he did tell Artaban that the Hebrew prophets had said that the Messiah should be born not in
Jerusalem, but in Bethlehem of Judah.

Artaban hurried on, for it was long past midnight when he left the grove; it was dawn before he reached
the temple. But there was not a sign of the caravan of the wise men, far or near. Then he
found a note to follow them across the desert, but he would have to return to Babylon and sell his
sapphire to prepare for the journey. Even then he might never overtake his friends. He might lose sight of the
King because he tarried to show mercy.

AND ARTABAN set out across the dreary undulations of the desert, through the valley of the Jordan, until he arrived
at Bethlehem on the third day after the three wise men came to that place and had laid their gifts
of gold, frankincense and myrrh at the feet of the babe, Jesus. The other wise man was full of hope
that he had found the King and could offer his ruby and his pearl to him. But a woman with
her baby in her arms told Artaban that the strangers from the East had come and gone and that the
man of Nazareth had taken the babe and his mother and fled to Egypt. Even as she told him of
the events of the past few days, the Roman soldiers came to slaughter the male children of the town. But
Artaban saved this woman's child by lying and bribing a captain with the ruby.

ARTABAN HAD SEARCHED three and 30 years for the King when he came for the last time to Jerusalem, having
visited there many times in the years before. It was the season of the Passover, and the city was thronged
with strangers. He fell in with a group of Parthian Jews who were on their way to Golgotha to see
a Jesus of Nazareth crucified. The heart of Artaban quickened with the apprehension which is the excitement of old age.
Would he be in time to offer his pearl as ransom for the King? But on his way to the
Skull, he was faced with the old conflict between the expectation of faith and the impulse of love. Twice the
gift which he had consecrated to the worship of religion had been drawn from his hand to the service of
humanity. This was the third trial, the final and irrevocable choice. He made the inevitable choice of saving a young
girl from slavery for her father’s debts and gave her his pearl for a ransom. Even as he did so,
a tremor ran through the earth and the old man was struck to the ground by a tile from a
roof. But what had he to live for? His quest was over, and it had failed. But there was peace
in accepting that thought for he knew that he had done the best he could from day to day and
had been true to the light that had been given to him. He knew that even if he could live
his earthly life over again, it could not be otherwise than it had been.

Then, as he was about to die, there came a voice through the twilight, and the old man’s lips began
to move as if in answer:

“Not so, my Lord: For when saw I thee hungered and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When
saw I thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? When saw I thee sick or
in prison, and came unto thee? Three-and-thirty years I have looked for thee; but I have never seen thy face,
nor ministered to thee, my king.”

“Verily, I say unto thee, Inasmuch as thou hast done it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
thou hast done it unto me.”

His journey was ended. His treasures were accepted. The Other Wise Man had found the King.
