The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Recommendations

We share a great deal of optimism over the recommendations of the Social Life Evaluating Committee which were to have
been presented to fraternity representatives this afternoon. Because of the late hour of the announcement of the proposals, we cannot
present any lengthy comment on the items in this column. We do hope, however, that each member of the college
community will look objectively at each of the committee’s recommendations and will examine closely the reasons and the time that
have gone into their formation.

Individuals on both sides of the fraternity question should realize that these recommendations do not carry with them a panacea
for the social and other problems on campus. They do carry the hope for a significant step toward the solution
of a situation that cannot be cured overnight.

It is encouraging that so much time and effort has been put into the recommendations on the part of the
nine members of the committee. The group has met at least 15 times since the beginning of October.

To see the full understanding of each student applied to the items in the committee’s report is the most important
consideration now.

These proposals, of course, will be considered by the faculty in its meeting Tuesday. In the meantime, we hope that
the utmost prudence of every individual involved will be applied to the recommendations.

A Shoddy Job

One of the most important considerations in the life of any up-to-date organization these days is the matter of public
information. Never is this more true than in the case of the news bureau of a college and Davidson is
no exception.

Unfortunately, this college is falling far short of the job that should be done in this area. Davidson has made
great strides recently in the field of public relations through the executive seminars and Board of Visitors programs which are
held each year on the campus; however, the simple business of getting the news to the public through the usual
media is where the college is shortchanging itself.

A fine working relationship has been established with the Charlotte newspapers and broadcasting stations and other local media; yet, while
the college proudly boasts that it is becoming a national institution, shoddy contacts are maintained even with newspapers in other
parts of North Carolina.

Ironically, THE DAVIDSONIAN currently receives more news matter in the form of sports press releases from several of Davidson's basketball
opponents individually than from the college's own news bureau in the sports and academic areas combined. THE DAVIDSONIAN receives a
copy of every news release issued by the college, the publicity office has repeatedly assured us; yet, several weeks have
gone by during the first semester of this year when not one release was received from the college news bureau.

With the greatly expanded sports program undertaken by the college recently, especially in football and basketball, there has been no
significant adjustment in the field of sports information. Programs in both the academic and athletic areas have suffered drastically because
of this oversight in vital publicity.

Following the example of other schools with a major athletic program, the college should establish a separate office of sports
information. The new sports information director, whose position and personnel should be distinguished from the regular college news bureau, could
work directly with the various coaches to promote much more adequately the Wildcat teams and personalities. This would allow the
present news bureau to concentrate their efforts in the academic field, such as student honors and activities, campus visitors, and
faculty achievement — subjects which are so often overlooked currently.

Of course, the office of sports information should be subsidized by the athletic department, which would receive the full benefits
of their own well-run publicity bureau. Even the minor sports, which are presently ignored in the sports releases, could then
receive the notice they are due.

The present news bureau, then, is woefully inadequate and is doing the college a real disservice by failing to publicize
the many events and personalities that now go unnoticed. We urge the college administration, and more particularly the development office,
to procrastinate no longer in creating the new sports information office. The future of a worthwhile sports program and of
a progressive educational institution rests on such a move.

Steak For Breakfast

The noticeable improvement in the attitude and service of the College Union Cafeteria warrants commendation on the part of every
student who dares to venture into the Slater line for a meal. It would be an understatement to say that
the service through most of the first semester was sorely lacking. And in several articles THE DAVIDSONIAN attempted to report
the shortcomings of the food service, especially in light of the delayed rush for freshmen and the increase in meal
prices this year.

Slater's new manager, Bill Beckham, has brought a wonderful attitude and a real determination to improve the lot of the
Union partakers; for not every cafeteria serves steak for breakfast, which happened Wednesday morning. We congratulate every individual who had
a part in the improvement of the cafeteria service. We hope, at the same time, that the present state of
affairs will continue and that the interest of the college in this area will further the worthwhile operation of the
cafeteria.

Of Worthwhile Visits

The recent announcement of the two distinguished personalities to visit the Davidson campus later this semester brings an encouraging outlook
to the future of the Reynolds Lectureship Series. James MacGregor Burns and Margaret Mead are outstanding individuals who will well
uphold the stature of the series.

It is unfortunate that during the past several years the visiting lecturers have rarely stayed on campus for more than
two or three days at a time, as the grant from the Reynolds Foundation had designed. We hope that definite
arrangements are being made to allow Drs. Burns and Mead to remain on campus for a series of lectures and
worthwhile visits, instead of allowing the Reynolds program to continue to sink into the depths of the staid progression of
chapel speakers.

Some Pretty Raw Deals

Davidson students have been the victims of some pretty raw deals in the matter of ticket allotments for basketball games
in the Charlotte Coliseum this year. Despite the benign explanations of the athletic department, it is plainly evident that the
best interests of the student body are lying in the corner of the ticket office.

In the Wildcats’ last Coliseum appearance on Jan. 8, nearly one-half of the student body clung to the rafters in
the uppermost seats of the Coliseum. Athletic officials claim that they did not anticipate the heavy demands by students for
tickets; yet, they could hardly be so naive as to ignore the fact that the West Virginia game was the
first weekend date in Charlotte this year, unlike two previous Coliseum games which were played on school nights.

Furthermore, the sections for student seating were so completely without contiguity, that a legislative reapportionment committee could not have done
a better job of disarray. Perhaps the athletic department places little value in student support at the Charlotte games; however,
it would seem that a solid mass of students, instead of splotches of seats, would increase both player and student
morales.

Next week students will be invited to pay for their tickets to the last two regular season games at the
Coliseum. The ticket office somehow theorizes that students should go an extra step to help in the financial guarantee for
such big name teams as NYU and St. Joseph’s. We can understand the attempt by the athletic department to realize
as much of a profit as possible under the basketball program, but the idea of the college’s making money off
their own students is really ridiculous.

Students, after all, do not expect carpeted seats for the Coliseum games. But they do deserve a great deal more
consideration from the athletic department than they have received thus far this year.

STUDENT'S OPINION

Higher Taxes Needed To Halt War Inflation

By PAUL McCLAUS

A REVIEW

As of late there has been considerable controversy among economists concerning the present level of taxes in America. This controversy
is centered around the question of whether our present tax rates present inflationary dangers in the economy. In brief fashion
I will present my views on this matter.

In the economy today there are several factors which make higher taxes imperative. Initially there is the matter of the
U.S. war effort. In many ways, war and inflation are synonymous terms. War creates new and increased demands for goods
and services and pays for those goods and services through increased wages, profits, rentals, and interest payments. However, it drains
the additional product from the private economy, leaving it with surplus purchasing power. It is a striking and significant observation
that with each of its major wars the U.S. has experienced a major inflation.

With these basic considerations as a background, let us look more closely at the inflationary implications of the war of
today. As becomes more and more evident every day, the U.S. is locked in decisive conflict in Viet Nam. Furthermore,
barring a major reversal in the trend of Communist strategy and efforts, there are more Viet Nams in the days
ahead. Accordingly, expansion of our war effort seems probable in the not-too-distant future. Thus, as the Red scheme continues and
gains momentum, America will find herself engaged in a war of escalation; a war which, thoughperhaps not “total” in the
traditional sense of unlimited weaponry, will have an economic effect on the U.S. similar to that of conventional “total” war.
In gaining some perspective on this “economic effect” let us use as reference World War II. Between 1939 and 1948,
wholesale prices in America rose 115 per cent; prices of cost-of-living items rose 76 per cent; and the dollar lost
53 per cent of its purchasing power. For the dragging, underemployed economy of the late thirties, these events (increased income,
production, employment, prices, and wages) served largely to boost the economy toward full employment levels. However, the status of the
economy today is not that of 1939. For the first time in our history, we find ourselves entering war at
a time when the economy is enjoying high levels of production, employment, and growth. Hence, the inflationary pressures presented by
war are being felt almost immediately. This is the primary factor in the need for higher taxes today. Furthermore, the
increased government spending for domestic programs, as proposed by Mr. Johnson in his recent State of the Union Address, will
serve to intensify these inflationary tendencies. In essence, then, it is this increased government spending, both in the war effort
abroad and in the magnified domestic policy at home, that necessitates higher taxes. If the U.S. is to rectify the
inflationary tendencies present in the economy today, to avoid the intensification of our balance-of-payments and public debt problems, and to
ensure the continued growth and prosperity of her economy, an increase in tax rates is mandatory. Assuming the competence and
concern of our leaders, it is my belief that such action will be effected in the near future.

FAIRNESS NEEDED
Critics Propose Change In Antiquated Draft Laws

personnel—a program he says would cost the government an extra $9 billion annually. Reduction of government expenditures in other areas
would finance the raise, he claims. Recruits are presently paid $78 a month, compared with West Germany's $110 and Canada's
$112. Opponents of the voluntary plan, however, say the cost of the program would be excessive and question the feasibility
of having professionals shoulder the sacrifices and responsibilities for the entire nation. The second plan—strictly compulsory conscription—calls for an actual
universal draft which would eliminate the deferments and rejections which have made the present program unfair. According to figures in
U.S. News and World Report, less than sixty per cent of American males age twenty-six are serving or have served
their military obligation. About thirty per cent are rejected for physical, mental, or moral reasons and the other ten per
cent are deferred because of parenthood or other causes. Proponents of a strictly voluntary armed forces claim: (1) The draft
is militarily ineffective because 97 per cent of the draftees leave after their hitch is up. (2) Adequate training cannot
be provided during the time allotted for draftees. (3) Today's modern warfare requires fewer and more specialized soldiers. (4) A
more professional and adept military force could be maintained by voluntary personnel, attracted by higher salaries and fringe benefits. (5)
The draft removes useful youth from the general employment market. Both plans have merit—something the present system is sadly lacking.
If the inequalities of our present draft laws are to be eliminated, either military careers must be made more attractive,
or universal conscription enforced.

From Associated Collegiate Press

Escalation of the war in Viet Nam and its subsequent criticisms from a minority of college youth have brought a
highly controversial topic to the national limelight once again: The Universal Military Training and Service Act. Student critics have publicly
burned draft cards, protested the draft, and unintentionally aroused support for U.S. activity in Southeast Asia. They have also encouraged
many responsible citizens to question the inequalities of present conscription procedures. Ever since the Irish Democrats of New York opposed
President Lincoln's compulsory military service measures prior to the Civil War, critics of the draft have been with us. Basically,
they are in two camps: One that favors abolishment of any military conscription, the other favoring a truly compulsory system
without exception. Both groups decry the inequalities of our present setup, which requires induction of less than 60 per cent
of the eligible male youth under age twenty-six.

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION
TOM COOK

Managing Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Photographer
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
HEYWARD CARTER

News Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Feature Editor
SAM BOYTE

Copy Editor
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager
BOB CAMERON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

CLOSE-UP
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

ON SCHEDULING

How would you like to finish first semester examinations before Christmas? Would a May 10 end to second semester appeal
to you? All this, plus a regular Thanksgiving break and a week's spring break, would be possible at Davidson with
a bit of schedule revision. Clemson University for the first time this year is operating under a schedule such as
this. Here’s how it works: Fall semester classes began at Clemson Aug. 25. Semester examinations began Dec. 9. About Dec.
15, Clemson students were free for a combination Christmas-semester break. They were free for almost a month, until second semester
classes began on January 14. The spring semester's examinations will begin May 4, and most students will be free for
the summer about May 10. The week of April 7-12, including Easter Sunday, will serve as spring break. Most Clemson
students like the new system. They do not face examinations two weeks after Christmas holidays. They were the first students
in their area free for Christmas, and thus had their choice of part-time holiday jobs. They had a full week
of vacation after New Year’s. The idea of a mid-May school finish appeals to most students also. Here again, they
will be the first on the job market for summer, and those going to Europe can cross the Atlantic before
high season rates begin. An Aug. 25 school start seemed early for some, but most students were willing to endure
two weeks of classes in late summer in order to obtain the plan’s other advantages. Clemson students are generally pleased
with this year’s experiment; other South Carolina schools, including The Citadel and Presbyterian College, plan to go on the system
next year. Most school officials cite the so-called “memory lapse” that occurs when Christmas break comes just before examinations as
a main factor in their desire for a pre-Christmas examination system. Upon cursory investigation, only two possible problems come to
mind when one considers application of the new calendar at Davidson. One would be with basketball scheduling during December examination
periods. A second would concern the present end-of-summer third term of summer school. Both of these problems can be solved.
It seems that Davidson has decided to stick to a semester hour system, though quarter-hour advocates from time to time
appear. However, I do not think that semester calendar revision is necessarily the best solution. What do you think?

“DEAR MATCHEE”

Here are excerpts from a letter received by a Davidsonian from one of the girls with whom he was matched
by Operation Match’s computer: The spelling and grammar are as in the original.

“Hi there! I suppose that I should introduce myself so that you will not be completely confused about why you
are receiving this letter from a complete stranger. My name is and I am a senior at College. Quite by
accident I ran across one of the Operation Match questionnaires. Naturally, as you know, the female is very curious and
so before I knew it, I was engrossed in something that I thought was very interesting. After I had read
the match questionnaire, I knew that I had nothing to lose by filling it out and sending it in—except three
dollars (tee hee). So, off went my three dollars, and oh questionnaire. A short while later, I received the most
expensive list of boys that I had ever seen. I thought it a terrible shame to let all that money
go to waste, so here I am writing. So, now you know. I am not really crazy. I am moderately
conservative in the way I spend money, but as you know, curiosity killed the cat.”

A PS. followed: “If you ever get down just take this letter out and read it again. I assure you,
it is guaranteed to cure anything that ails you.”

Contributions this week: Mike Powell, Kern Parker, Bob Travers, Ron Snow, Jim Cooley, Bruce Weihe, John Williams, Mike Bates, Robbie
Hooker, Bill Seigler, Kent Gladstone, Mason Stephenson, Price Cameron, Cameron Ferguson, Billy Farr, Lindsay Davis, Mike May, Bill Graham, Bob
Schofield, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen, Johnny Wessell.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second
class matter at Davidson, N.C. at College.
