THE DAVIDSONIAN
September 23, 1966
Page Eight

NOBEL WINNER LASHES OUT
Martin Luther King Views ‘Two Americas’

“There are two Americas,” Nobel Peace Prize winner Martin Luther King Jr. told 7,000 people Wednesday night at Johnson C.
Smith University. “One America is a beautiful America, a prosperous America.” But, he went on, there is another America, an
ugly America. “It's the America of the poor, of the disinherited, of the oppressed. And the vast majority of the
22 million Negroes living in America are in this second America,” he said. “These people, rather than having wall-to-wall carpeting,
have wall-to-wall rats and roaches.”

Very few segments in American society escaped King’s condemnation for allowing such a situation to exist. First, he lashed out
at the obvious targets: the Ku Klux Klan and the John Birch Society, whom he labeled a “type of klan
that doesn’t wear a hood.” “I don't know of any state in the Union that should be more familiar with
the Ku Klux Klan than North Carolina,” he quipped to an approving audience, composed predominantly of middle-class Negroes. Approximately 100
Davidson students were also there.

Then he tore into the less obvious causes of the Negro’s lagging. “I'm gravely disturbed about the silence of the
good people, the people who believe in order more than justice, who say to the Negro: ‘Wait.’ The other America
is also perpetuated by white politicians and some Negro politicians more concerned about self-aggrandizement. Then, he said, there are Negroes
who have succeeded in lifting themselves from the slums and “have forgotten the stench of the backwaters.”

“White ministers have taken refuge behind stained glass windows,” he said, “and there are Negro ministers more concerned about the
size of the wheelbase on their autos.” The racist doesn’t make an empirical observation that Negroes are restrained by their
environment, King affirmed. “Racists are making an ontological affirmation that Negroes are created inferior, and the ultimate logic of racism
is genocide.”

“If a man says to me that I'm not good enough to live next door to him, then he’s saying
that I deserve to be dead and non-existent,” King shouted amid applause that interrupted his speech more than 20 times
during the night. Once, he said, a reporter asked him if he didn’t think he should try to align himself
with contemporary thought. In an obvious dig at the President, he replied, “I'm not a consensus leader. I don’t decide
what is right or wrong by a Gallup poll. I try to be a molder of opinion, not a follower.”

He went on: “If every Negro in the United States turns to violence, I will stand by myself,” a statement
that brought tumultuous applause. Hate, he said, harms both the hater and the hated. “I've seen it on the faces
of too many Southern sheriffs, Ku Klux Klansmen and men, women and children in Chicago. In effect, I say to
a man, ‘I'd rather die than hate you,’” he said, rolling his voice and raising his hands.

King demonstrated a dual concern, not only for social justice, but also an escalation of the War on Poverty. “The
difference between now and the past is that we have the tools to fight poverty now,” King said. “But I'm
afraid there are too many people concerned with winning the war in Vietnam and not enough with the War against
Poverty.” Everybody, white and Negro, he said, must be involved in the struggle to eliminate poverty, because all are tied
together.

US SENATORIAL CANDIDATE JOHN S. SHALLCROSS ADDRESSES YRC

Senatorial Candidate Attacks Federal Spending

Semester Officers Named For ROTC

Col. Frederick B. Outlaw has announced the appointments of ROTC officers for the first semester. The Cadet Officers are as
follows:

Brigade Staff — Commander, Charlie Taylor; executive officer, Johnny Gresham; other staff officers are Rich Graham, Charlie Elliott, Joe Obenshain,
David Purnell; sergeant major is Ben Cannon; staff sergeant is Julian Prosser.

First Battalion Staff members are: Commander, Joe Jelks; executive officer, Norman Pease; other staff officers, Esmond Phelps, Walter Eastes, Hobs
Allen, Dennis Dobson; sergeant major, Steve Humphrey; staff sergeants, Neal Reynolds and Bob Howard.

Second Battalion staff members are: commander, Tom Brown; executive officer, Charlie Steel; other staff officers are Jack Brinckerhoff, Don Gillespie,
Hamp Morris, Don Carroll; sergeant major, Tom Irons; staff sergeants, Andy Beard and Ted Horne.

Band Company commander is Scott Gabrielson, Honor Guard commander is Paul Curlee. Company commanders are: A, Rick Moore; B, Bob
Dugger; C, Sam Cathey; D, Julian Fite; E, Peter Parrott; and F, Mac Otts.

CHARLIE TAYLOR

In the areas of federal spending, foreign policy and American involvement in Vietnam, Shallcross, addressing about 100 members of the
Davidson and Queens College Young Republican Clubs in the Union, also attacked his Democratic opponent, incumbent Sen. B. Everett Jordan.
Calling him a “rubber-stamp” for the Johnson administration, Shallcross accused Jordan of leading the “whitewash” of the Bobby Baker case
from his position as chairman of a special investigating committee. The senator, Shallcross claimed, put the wishes of the administration
before the best interests of the people of North Carolina and the United States.

Switching to the national government, Shallcross strongly criticized current federal economic policies. The continuing inflation caused by these measures is
“picking the pockets” of the American people by causing the devaluation of the dollar. In 1980, he said, it will
take 20 dollars to equal the purchasing power of one dollar today.The purchasing power of one dollar in 1940.

Fulbright Grants To Close Oct. 31

The deadline for filing applications for grants under the Fulbright-Hayes Act will close Oct. 31, according to Davidson Program Adviser
Dr. J. O. Embry. These U.S. government awards are provided for graduate study and research in 54 countries. Each year
approximately 850 grants are furnished as part of the educational and cultural exchange program of the State Department. Those students
who wish to apply must be U.S. citizens, have a bachelor's degree by the beginning date of the scholarship and,
in certain cases, be proficient in the language of their host country.

Hold that crease? You bet it will, if the fabric is one of the great, new permanent-press blends of 2-ply
polyester and cotton masterminded by Galey & Lord. For the new dimension in collegiate slacks, look to GALEY & LORD,
5407 BROADWAY, N.Y. 10018 A DIVISION OF BURLINGTON INDUSTRIES

By JOE SAUNDERS Staff Writer

Johnson, Shallcross said, would “raise the roof about a two-dollar raise in the price of a ton of steel, but
would say nothing about a 500 dollar raise in the price of a ton of bacon.” He also attacked what
he called the give-away spending of the government, in such areas as the anti-poverty program. The United States, Shallcross claimed,
is following a “no-win” policy in Viet Nam. The hands of the military have been tied, and the war is
being run directly from Washington. The administration is planning for a war that will last for from four to 10
years, he said, and it is ridiculous to spend almost two million dollars an hour and the lives of American
servicemen in anything less than an all-out effort to win the war as quickly as possible. To do this, Shallcross
recommended giving more actual power to the military, and taking measures that would harass the enemy without increasing the danger
of escalation. He endorsed the bombings of North Vietnamese oil storage depots, and suggested the blockading of the vital ports
where supplies are brought in.

Decrying the advance of socialism in the national government, Shallcross called some legislation “diversionary tactics,” used by socialistic groups to
center all power in Washington. Pointing out the present state of the British economy, he blamed socialistic trends for England's
financial woes and loss of world power. On the specific question of Medicare, he said that further action should be
postponed until the effects of measures already taken can be determined. A businessman, civic and church leader, Shallcross resigned from
his position as president of an electronics firm to devote all of his time to the campaign.

VOLUNTEERS — Glenn Withrow, former Davidson student, has completed 10 weeks of training as a Peace Corps volunteer. Withrow will
be stationed in Peru, where he will help with organizing and operating farm co-operatives and farm youth clubs.

COMING SPEAKERS

King used the Biblical example of Dives, who refused to use his riches to aid the beggar Lazarus, to prove
his point. “Dives went to Hell because he became a conscientious objector in the War against Poverty.” Each person lives
two lives, King explained, within and without. The within concerns man’s internal goals, while the without deals with the instrumentalities
by which man lives. But the within has been absorbed by the without,” he affirmed, “morality by mentality, theology by
technology. We have guided missiles and misguided men.”

Dr. Hill To Discuss Sociology Of Religion

Dr. Sam Hill, head of the Department of Religion at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, will speak
in chapel Monday. His subject will be the sociology of religion. In Tuesday's chapel, the 14 Richardson scholars will be
formally introduced. Each visiting student will speak briefly about his country. President D. Grier Martin will introduce the new faculty
and staff members in Thursday's chapel. A new innovation this year is the system of checking chapel attendance with a
computer. This system was developed by Joe Freible, a math and physics major, and Tom Covington, assistant director of the
College Union.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414

Subscribe to THE DAVIDSONIAN

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Name
Address
City
State
ZIP
I enclose $4.00 New
Bill me at $4.50 Renewal
Mail to: Circulation Mgr.
Box 218
