A Ls # i ‘ ji oe —— 2h... (Staff Photos by Weems)

POOLE GOES IN BACKWARDS
Third Quarter Touchdown Pushes Lead To 14-3

BENCH JOCKEY
By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

THE PREDICTION PHILOSOPHY: Everybody has to take a stab at putting himself on a limb once in a while .
. . so it might as well be now, after the dust kicked up by Homecoming has had a chance
to resettle into its time-worn niches.

The risks involved in the overt act of predicting pro football games certainly need no explanation (except perhaps why someone
would do so on this side of ex-communication from the Little Rascals Club). Well, I assure you that Fred Kirby,
the singing cowboy, and I are on the best of terms, so that explanation can not be the “fountain of
truth.” Nor have I been in contact with Chicago’s powers-that-be for their helpful insight. To put it bluntly, your guess
is as good as mine.

Now unless you ponder the situation thoroughly, you may not realize how tough such a task is. You know from
the start you can’t make everybody happy. If everybody were happy, there would not be much to mess with. And
you wouldn’t believe how many times a coin could stand on end (would you believe six ties this weekend?)! Granted,
there are several games this week that seem to call for a foregone conclusion; but foregone or not, it is
gone “fore you know what hit you.

Predicting football games is in a way like pink elephants — when you see what they look like, it is
about time to take a couple aspirin in hopes they'll go away. And even if, for sheer jest, Fate smiles
upon the “good guys,” what does it suffice among the chorus of “So what’s”? To wet your whistle in a
hurry, first let us examine Washington at Baltimore. Everybody knows that the Colts can scalp the ’Skins any day —
especially at home. But didn’t everybody know that the ‘Skins would get romped by the Cardinals (who have only that
loss to show against six wins and a tie)? Sure, Johnny Unitas can pass through the ’Skins porous pot-bellies. But
isn’t it about time for Sports Illustrated to come out with Johnny U. on the cover after the records he
set last week? The Colts are among the best and the roughest, but the ’Skins have shown well against the
big boys this year. In a surprise move, the Redskins over the Colts.

After that bit of startling butchery, it is time to settle down a bit. Dallas has too much for Philadelphia,
and their scoring punch got back on the beam last week after 31 points in their last two. Besides, they
beat the Eagles, 25-7 in the last encounter between the two. Cleveland should bounce the Steelers this week as they
did before by 41-10. The bombing that the Steelers took in the second half of the Cowboy game last week
should have left them in shell-shock. The Bears of the Midway face no real threat from the Motownites when the
Lions travel to Chicago. True, Detroit won the first time, 14-3, but that was the season opener when the Bears
were displaying their typical charge to the bottom. The Bears have given the top teams about all they could handle
(they beat the Colts, 27-17), and Detroit does not qualify to occupy rarified atmosphere. Gale Sayers is also starting to
make himself known again. So it looks like a win for Windville. And to round out the “easy” picture, the
Cardinals should have no real trouble with the Giants, having experienced it once before. In their first encounter, the Redbirds
waited to squeak out a TD in the closing minutes to win, 24-19. But they were looking to the Dallas
game the following week. This time Pittsburgh is next, and so there should be no excuse for not bashing the
proud-turned-hapless Giants — especially after this week’s bouncing of the Bears.

Now back to fearlessness. San Francisco over Los Angeles. Despite the Rams romp, 34-3, in their Coliseum meeting, things have
changed. Los Angeles has been losing more than San Francisco lately (although the Rams did better against the Colts than
the 49’ers did at Minnesota), and John Brodie has felt a marked boobird decline.

Davidson Faces Lehigh Gridders At Bethlehem

Taylor Stadium in Bethlehem, Pa., is the scene of tomorrow's intersectional battle between Lehigh University and the Davidson Wildcats. The
1:30 p.m. game will be carried on WBT-FM. The Engineers are led by sophomore quarterback Rick Laubach who has completed
48 out of 90 passes for 364 yards. Rick Miller is his leading receiver with 34 receptions.

“The Lehigh team doesn’t resemble any of past years,” stated ‘Cat Coach Homer Smith. “They have a new system which
has a record-breaking offense.” Guard Joe Murphy sustained cracked ribs in The Citadel game, but Smith said he will play
tomorrow. Davidson leads 3-2 in the series which began in 1959. The 'Cats won last year in an offensive struggle,
37-23.

Davidsonian Sports
NOVEMBER 4, 1966

By CHARLES ELLIOTT
Sports Writer

Saturday's win over the bumbling Citadel Bulldogs boosted Davidson's total offense lead in the conference to 349.7 yards per game
to 318.9 for runner-up East Carolina and its passing offense to 195.8 yards each game to 149.1 for second-ranked VMI.
The victory also pushed the Cats from sixth place in the conference to a more respectable fourth. In other conference
action last weekend, William and Mary's league leading Indians scalped VMI, 22-15. Saturday at Lexington, Va. Indian quarterback Mike Madden
threw three touchdowns.

Poole hit halfback Greg Cox with a 19-yard pass in the end zone mid-way in the fourth quarter to put
the ‘Cats back in the lead, halting a belated Citadel comeback. The 165-pound quarterback plunged over from the one in
the second quarter and again in the third to account for the rest of the scoring. The Citadel got on
the boards in the second quarter when strongback Jim Gahagan booted a 21-yard field goal. The Bulldogs roared back in
the third period, scoring twice on passes from quarterback Jay Goolsby to end Tommy Moore. Poole’s pass to Cox in
the fourth put the ‘Cats back in the winning column.

Maybe the ‘Cats were happy to be home, maybe they were just lucky, but most observers agreed the most certain
thing about Saturday's game was that the team wanted to win more than anything else. As Coach Homer Smith said
in chapel Friday, “The thing that will make a Davidson football team great is the fact that the men on
the team are proud to be a part of this student body and they show it on the football field
by giving their all, all the time.”

Special mention should go to the defensive unit, which dug in to halt several Citadel assaults. Dick Lindsay, Tommy Dews
and Renn Gruber sparked the defensive backfield, while linebacker Joe Gaddy and the interior linemen--Sandy Brenneman, Johnny Slaughter, Hank Strickland
and Buddy Newsome kept pressure on the Bulldog backfield all afternoon.

Poole personally chalked up 256 yards total offense to pace both teams. The 21-year-old senior rolled up 77 yards on
the ground in 18 carries for a 4.3 yards per carry average. Smith said Poole did “a great job” of
leading the team and said the quarterback has done a “great job” all year. He noted that the TD pass
in the fourth was supposed to go to fullback Billy Taylor, but when Poole saw his principal receiver well-covered he
fired a quick pass to Cox who was open. John Giles added three extra points to his PAT record. Cox,
Taylor, Pete Glidewell and Bill Rikard hauled down passes under tight coverage. Cox led the ‘Cats’ receivers with seven for
84 yards with Rikard following with three for 41 yards and Glidewell with three for 55 yards. Moore paced the
Bulldog receivers, snagging five for 70 yards. Jim McMillan led the Bulldog rushers with 102 yards in 21 carries.

Poole Sprints Around End In Fourth Quarter
Cox (L) and Taylor Block For Valuable Gain

Ex-Bench Warmer Stars
By DON SEWELL
Sports Writer

Two seasons ago Jimmy Poole was a third-string quarterback on a third rate team. Last season he was still a
bench-warming second-stringer, who coaches used only when the starter was tired or a little off-target. This season he has emerged
as the leading offense man in the conference and one of the top tossers in the South. This year Poole
has set himself to the task of rewriting the record books for both the Wildcats and the Southern Conference. After
the first six games of this season, the soft-spoken star hasa passing total of 105 for 172 tosses, good enough
to break the conference record for completions with three games to play. His 1,361 yards total offense and 1,127 yards
passing also lead the conference. Poole put a new school record in the books by connecting on his ninth touchdown
pass of the year Saturday against The Citadel. In his typical mild-mannered way, the former North Mecklenburg quarterback reminisced on
what he considers to be his best performance. “Of the five games that I started last year and the first
six this season,” he said, “I feel that my best game passing was against East Carolina when I threw 30
for 50. The Lehigh game was my best last season.” In that game Poole set a record for total offense
with 230 yards. “But overall,” he said, “my best game combining running and passing was last week's Citadel game.” It
was in that game that Poole executed the play that he feels was his most exciting. With the ball on
the Citadel 19-yard line late in the last quarter, Coach Homer Smith sent in a play from the bench. It
was supposed to be a pitch to Billy Taylor who would then throw downfield. “The play is a Taylor pass,
first and a run second,” Poole said. “It had worked once before. I don't know why, but when I saw
Greg Cox open I just decided to hit him.” The play worked well enough to score the winning touchdown. Several
of his teammates commented on his tremendous quarterback ability. Flanker Greg Cox called him “the most accurate passer in the
area.” Pete Glidewell, Poole’s tight end, said, “There is no doubt that Jimmy is the best in the conference. He
is just great on short passes.” Bill Rikard said Poole “puts an excellent handle on the ball when he throws.”
Bill Taylor, who shares the running responsibility, added, “Jimmy is the smoothest option runner that I've ever seen.” Still, Poole
is reluctant to take all the credit for his offensive success. He was quick to comment, “My faith in our
receivers is a great factor in my passing. We work together every day and they don't miss many. They get
open and it is not too hard to hit them. If they are not open, I try to run.” His
ability to roll and throw to either side is a large asset in his success. Even though he sets records
nearly every time he plays, Poole said that he was thrilled to win the Homecoming game. His two quarterback sneaks
in that game were the first touchdowns he has scored this year. When asked what type of play he likes
to run the most, Poole chose plays that give him several options—plays where someone has to be open—as his favorites.
Everyone associated with the Wildcat team is quick to praise their quarterback. Trainer Tom Couch has commented that he feels
Poole could make a name for himself in professional ranks. “I think our whole offense has been tremendous. We really
haven't been stopped yet. We have great confidence.” With these words, Poole modestly shared his great success with his teammates.

whereas Roman Gabriel has begun to experience the opposite. The NFL finale is the Viking-Packer game. Norm Van Brocklin’s boys
have quit losing the close ones by winning big as Fran Tarkenton has revved up the rotary blades despite the
opposition’s careful strategy. The Packers are getting some offensive line play now to go down passes to flanker back Ned
Carr to boost his team to a first place tie with East Carolina. The besieged Keydets lost all their offense
punch, as the Indians rolled up 17 more yards from the one in the opening period to cap a 64-yard
drive to tie the score. Meanwhile, East Carolina fell to Southern Illinois, 31-13, but with their savage defense and Bart
Starr-led backfield. In a tough one, Green Bay over Minnesota. Boston’s only winner outside of the Celtics ought to take
Denver. The Patriots smell a conference championship and have been playing out of their heads ever since tying the Jets
in their fourth game. Denver and Miami have been battling all season as worst of the West vs. least of
the East, but the Dolphins have pulled in two wins lately, dropping the Broncs to the bottom of the heap.
Maybe Denver's problem is they try harder. Even with the acquisition of Cookie Gilchrist and Earl Faison (no relation), the
Dolphins should fall to the grind-’em-out Buffalo Bills. About Miami's only advantage is they are on home grounds. The Bills’
33-23 win over the Jets last week raised their stock, and, as an indication, they dropped the Dolphins earlier to
the tune of 58-24. The Kansas City-San Diego winner could inch toward the best-of-the-West title, but nothing is certain. The
Chiefs send their explosive offense (averaging over 35 points a game) against a solid Charger defense, but the Chargers have
had some trouble lately. A lot depends on which end of the see-saw faces west, but the Chiefs should dump
the Chargers. Finally, Oakland over Houston. Oakland’s new sports palace has seemed to generate something into the once-doldrum-prone Raiders. And
Houston even lost to the Dolphins. Even when they were hurting, the Raiders stymied the Oilers, 31-0, and it could
be just as bad Sunday. Houston gave Kansas City a scare this past weekend but the Raiders should bounce back
from a 24-21 loss to fast-leading Boston.

The IMAC swimming meet opens Monday, with the preliminaries starting at 8 p.m. The finals begin Tuesday night at the
same hour. The twelve fraternities and the five freshman sections will all compete. The events include fifty yard butterfly, freestyle,
backstroke and breaststroke. Competition also included are the 100-yard individual medley, the 200-yard freestyle relay and the 200-yard medley relay.
This year diving will be included among the list of events for the first time. Contestants must do two front
dives and two back dives of their choice. This year’s meet will be run by the IMAC with Coach Tom
Stevens and the swimming team assisting. The Kappa Sigs, winners last year, loom again as the team to beat. Jack
Sherrill, president of the IMAC, said, “They pretty much ran away with it last year, and they will have a
good many of their boys back.” IMAC wrestling will begin November 16 and 17. Lists are being passed out for
this now.

By JOHN HUGGINS
Sports Writer

Wildkitten Coach Bob Brown was optimistic in discussing his team’s 28-3 loss to N.C. State Friday. “Our boys did a
much better job on a tough team than the score indicates,” he said. “We stopped their offense cold. Three of
their scores came after a fumble, a pass interception and a missed defensive call. The offense moved the ball for
361 yards, but we are most unhappy about not scoring when we got into scoring range.” N.C. State took Davidson’s
opening kickoff and drove to the Wildkittens’ 28. After an exchange of fumbles, State sputtered in to score on a
drive capped by a Moody-to-Whitley pass from the one. I. B. Hicks’ PAT made it State, 7-0. Davidson stalled at
their own 43 after taking the ensuing kickoff. Terry Esterkamp boomed a 48-yard punt to the State nine. Three consecutive
defensive gems by Cooper Brantley, Al Hawkins, and Steve Butler forced State to punt. Quarterback Garth Hampton ran and passed
Davidson to the State 37, but a fumble by fullback John Zaharov ended the drive at the close of the
quarter. Five plays later Esterkamp crashed into the State backfield, batted down a lateral and fell on it at the
State 45. Hampton hit George Hannen with a 28-yard aerial to the Wolflet 15, but the drive stalled, and Ed
Terry cut State’s lead to 7-3 with a 26-yard field goal. State took the kickoff and drove to the Kitten
45. Two long passes took State to the Davidson three, and Robert Hardin crashed over for the TD. Hicks’ PAT
put State out in front, 14-3. Each team threatened late in the first half, but neither could score. Davidson took
the second half kickoff, but had to punt. Brantley, Allen Hawkins and Dwight Hale made three key tackles to force
a State punt, giving Davidson the ball at midfield. The fourth quarter was frustrating for the ’Kittens. Even with Mike
Kelly and Hannen catching passes all over the field, Davidson still couldn't cap a drive with a score. Brown singled
out Brantley, Gary Hemric, Lynn Himes and Steve Butler for their fine defensive jobs. “Our offensive had a rough time
picking up stunts while pass blocking, but they improved as the game progressed,” said Brown. “This team gets better and
better as time goes by. If their technique ever reaches their desire, they will be unbeatable.” Of Saturday night's game
at Gardner-Webb, Brown said “They are ranked number six among the nation’s junior colleges and tied Ferrum, the team ranked
first. They have sophomores at every starting position and have played together as a unit for one and a half
seasons. We respect them, but we aren't awed by them. I'm ready for another victory.”
