FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1966

TOM COOK On Sports

THE MAKING OF A SCHEDULE

Next winter’s basketball schedule, which appears below, is the most ambitious slate put together by Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott
in several seasons. Instead of playing at Johnston Gym or in Charlotte two-thirds of the season like this year, Lefty
Driesell's Southern Conference champs will hit the road next season for 11 encounters on hostile courts. Besides the usual conference
portion, Dr. Scott has arranged an impressive group of intersectional opponents, including Michigan, Pittsburgh, Tulane, Virginia, St. Joseph’s, and Marquette.

Dec. 1 Wake Forest Charlotte
3 Pittsburgh Charlotte
6 Furman Davidson
10 Michigan Ann Arbor
13 VMI Lexington
17 Tulane New Orleans
20 George Washington Davidson
29-30 Charlotte Invitational Army, Davidson, Fordham, Maryland

Jan. 2 Virginia Charlottesville
4 Richmond Richmond
7 West Virginia Charlotte
10 The Citadel Charleston, S. C.
14 George Washington Washington
28 Wake Forest Greensboro

Feb. 1 West Virginia Charleston, W. Va.
4 St. Joseph’s Charlotte
7 Richmond Davidson
11 Marquette Milwaukee
14 William and Mary Charlotte
16 Furman Greenville
21 VMI Davidson
25 The Citadel Davidson

Mar. 2-4 Southern Conference Tournament Charlotte

The backbone of our schedule is the conference opposition. We will play practically the same opponents in the family again
except for the deletion of East Carolina, and the addition of games here and in Washington with George Washington. Dr.
Scott noted, “East Carolina and William and Mary don’t have good gyms, and a lot of people don’t like to
play there.” Davidson is one of these. W and M is the only school besides ECC we will not visit
next year. Scott stated, “When they get their new gyms, we'll play them there.”

Many people think we should step out of the conference more often and improve our strength in the conference by
extending ourselves intersectionally. The minimum number of conference games is ten; we will play 13. But since even the conference
games are booked two summers in advance, some sort of consistency must be maintained in meeting our conference obligations. Another
reason for the large number of conference clashes is the fact that teams like Georgia Tech will not play us.
Nor would we want to go to Miami (Fla.) because of the poor reputation of the officiating.

INTERSECTIONAL GAMES

Games with Wake Forest are contracted early and occupy their usual Dec. 1 and the Saturday-after-semester-exams positions. For other games
such as Marquette and Virginia, we will be fulfilling home-and-home two-year contracts. In the cases of Michigan and Tulane, they
will return games in Charlotte in 1967-68. Pittsburgh replaces Ohio University for a one-game series, and St. Joe will return
to Charlotte again because they make more money down here than in their Palestra doubleheaders.

PRINCIPLES OF SCHEDULING

Perhaps even more interesting than the end product are the factors which Dr. Scott considers in determining who, where, and
when to play. As for the opponents, big-name teams and nationally ranked teams are money-makers, as are Big 10, Atlantic
Coast Conference, and major Eastern schools. Games may be scheduled in Philadelphia and New York to give potential All-Americans exposure
before the influential metropolitan press. This was the case with Fred Hetzel in 1964-65. Scott set up the Tulane series
and next year’s game in New Orleans because starter Bobby Lane will be an attraction for the hometown fans and
because we will be playing in the Sugar Bowl Tournament in ’67-68.

Scheduling non-conference games generally precedes conference bookings because they are the important games from the viewpoint of the financial and
publicity factors involved. A third reason for playing certain teams is to build the Davidson image in such prime recruiting
areas as the Midwest and the middle Atlantic states.

MONEY TALKS

Sites boil down to money. The team that has more home games than road games is the team that makes
money. In our case, Charlotte is where the money is. The five games set for the gym are against conference
foes, but the games in the Coliseum are against teams who ought to fill the seats and make us close
to $20,000 a game except for the split with St. Joe. Most visiting teams receive only a guarantee to cover
expenses, so that’s making nothing at all. In the Southern Conference, everyone keeps their own gate receipts. Davidson has no
limit on the number of games it may play in Charlotte, according to Scott. The student's welfare, the coach's welfare,
and a profitable operation are the prime factors in the selection of sites. For example, Driesell does not like to
make trips of more than one game’s duration, though he will go from Charlottesville to Richmond for a game before
school reconvenes after Christmas.

When to schedule a game has its guidelines, too. Scott noted, “Lefty likes two days to get ready for a
game.” Also, the faculty gets into the act by giving final approval to all athletic schedules. They usually give their
approval but frown on such taboos as three games in one week or games too close to exams. With regard
to other teams, Scott said, “If they want to play us, and if there’s a mutual date open, they will
find a way to be there.” Another game may be added to an open date Feb. 18, but this is
the schedule and now all we have to do is hang on until Lefty's Legions hit the court to play
for keeps on Dec. 1.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Staff Photo by Olson)

HATCHER SMASHES RETURN

Improved Greatly

PAGE FIVE

FACING DIFFERENT COURT, NETS

By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Asst. Sports Editor

Little known outside the immediate vicinity for anything but his basketball ability, Sam “Pinky” Hatcher is demonstrating his prowess with
the racquet this season for the Wildcat tennis team. Coach Harry Fogleman claims “Pinky is one of the top prospects
I've ever had here. If he'd devote all his time to tennis, he would be ranked in the South. He
has the strength and agility that are important. Above all, he has the desire to be as good as he
can."

Hatcher began his tennis career at Columbus (Ga.) High School. He says he took up tennis because “it's fast and
you need every kind of athletic ability." Asked if he prefers tennis to basketball, Hatcher replied, “Well, tennis is a
little more informal.”

Late getting started on his tennis due to the conflict with the end of the basketball season, Hatcher says he
felt fortunate to make the top six. That is quite a modest approach for the number three man on the
team, one who alternated between first and second on last year's freshman squad.

IMPROVED PLAY

Coach Fogleman cited a great improvement in Hatcher's play. “He has improved greatly on his serve, his overhand and his
net game. He needs a little more experience, but he’s coming along fine.”

’Cat Netters Romp Toledo, Blank Furman, Richmond

The tennis team continued full-speed through its season as it steamrolled to three more victories, beating Toledo, Richmond, and Furman.
On Wednesday of last week, the University of Illinois was meeting the ’Cats, but both teams’ early efforts were dampened
as rain forced the cancellation of the match. The ’Cat netters were on their way to victory when the rains
came.

The University of Toledo visited on the Friday of Spring Frolics and suffered a 6-3 loss. The ’Cats won four
singles matches and two doubles as they experienced little resistance from the visitors.

Betas Dump Indies, Delts, Take IMAC Softball Lead

By JIM MARROW
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Betas forged into an unchallenged possession of first place this week as they took the Independents and the Delts
by 19-0 and 9-8 scores. This left their record at 5-0. To date, the Betas have beaten the ATO’s, 7-4,
the Kappa Sigs, 6-1, and the KA’s, 5-1. They have been led by the grumblings of “Jumping” Joe Rice and
the fine hustle of Jim Timmons. Arch McCallum has also starred.occasionally. The KA’s jumped into second place with wins over
the ATO’s, 7-3, the Kappa Sigs, 12-5, Delts, 9-4, and Gams, 9-7. Tommy Hunter, ace catcher of the KA’s, said,
“We’ve got a lot of seniors on this club and a lot of experience. I think we'll have a real
good season." The SPE’s were led to victory over the SAE’s by a home run off Richard Maybin’s bat. Actually,
the ball hit in front of the plate and bounced over the pitcher’s head, rolled between the shortstop and second
baseman, and rolled into the woods behind left center field. The SPE’s also collected a 9-7 win over the Sigma
Chi's and an 11-10 victory from the Indies, while losing to the Sigma Nu’s. Their 3-1 record put them in
third place. The SAE’s took the Pikas to the tune of 13-7 and swamped the Nus, 25-12. Ed Armfield had
three homers against the Pikas. At the 500 mark were the Phi Gams and Sigma Nu, each with 2-2 slates.
The Gams beat the Kappa Sigs, 7-4, and the Pi Kapps, 14-8. Their losses came at the hands of the
KA’s and the Pikas, 17-14. The Nus took victories over the SPE's and Pi Kapps while dropping decisions to the
Machis and the SAE’s. Tied for seventh place were the ATO’s, Kappa Sigs, and Pikas, all with 2-3 records. The
Sigs boast wins over the Taus, 23-20, and the Pikas, 8-2. Their losses were from the Betas, Phi Gams, 7-4,
and the KA’s. The Taus sport wins over the Machis, 14-12, and the Independents. Several players have been outstanding on
these teams. Among them were Muldoon Briggs with his homer for the Pikas against the Pi Kapps, Arnie Goodstein of
the Sigs with his grand slam, game-winning home run against the Pikas, and “Slick Jim” Stokes for his super slick
fielding for the ATO's. Following in ninth place are the Delts and the Sigma Chis. They each stand at 1-2.
The Delts took their win from the Pikas. The Machis beat the Nus. Bruce Weihe led the Machis at the
plate but in the field there was much to be desired as pitcher Jim Kopp quit because of errors. Tied
for last in the standings were the Independents and the Pi Kapps at 0-3. The Indies dropped games to the
ATO’s, Betas, and SPE’s. The Pi Kapps lost to the Pikas, Gams, and Nus. Several games were rained out or
postponed. Also, Jack Sherrill, IMAC president, said the freshman independent team would try to play its games if captain David
Weems can get organized.

Betas Bombed Sigs 7-1

Cage Ace Gives Nod To ’Cats

Davidson’s basketball future received another boost this week with the signing of high school star Doug Cook to a grant-in-aid.
Cook, a 6 foot 6, 220-pounder, was New Jersey's best high school big man this past season. Hailing from Ho-Ho-Kus,
N. J., Cook averaged 23.7 points per game and hit 48 percent of his field goal attempts. Cook has been
named along with Charlie Scott and Jerry Kroll, Davidson's other big catches, as High School All-Americans by Scholastic Magazine. This
field also includes such notables as Rick Mount of Lebanon, Ind., who was featured earlier by Sports Illustrated.

Coach Harry Fogleman had high praise for Pinky Hatcher, saying, “He played very well, especially since he had such a
tough opponent. A real tough boy.” Monday, the University of Richmond visited the Davidson courts and was outclassed as the
‘Cats romped to a 9-0 victory. Davidson took its second Southern Conference shutout in as many days when it downed
the Purple Paladins of Furman Tuesday. Commenting on the 9-0 score, Fogleman said that there was never a match in
doubt. Wednesday, the ‘Cats left for Lexington, Va., where they meet three different Southern Conference teams. Thursday afternoon they faced
host team VMI. This morning they faced George Washington in one of the tougher matches of the season. Fogleman said,
“This will be a tough one and definitely the toughest of the three in Lexington.”

RELAY SCHEDULE
1:30 p.m. Pole vault
3:00 p.m. Shot put, broad jump, javelin, high jump, discus, triple jump
3:00 p.m. Distance medley
3:20 p.m. 440 relay
3:40 p.m. Mile relay
4:00 p.m. Sprint medley
4:20 p.m. 880 relay
4:40 p.m. 2 mile relay

Tomorrow morning at 10:00, West Virginia will go up against the ‘Cats. The much-improved Mountaineers are trying to post their
fifth straight winning record this season. On Tuesday, the ‘Cats will leave conference competition for a match against Appalachian State
on the Davidson courts. One of the toughest matches of the season will be held at Clemson on Thursday. Fogleman
compared it to the Rollins match, one of Davidson's two losses, in difficulty. He said, “They have all scholarship boys
down there and have done well this year. They beat Presbyterian pretty badly, so we'll have our work cut out
for us.” The ‘Cats beat PC 5-4 two weeks ago. The Davidson record with the defeat of Furman stood at
12-2. Fogleman was especially proud of four 9-0 victories over Southern Conference opponents, East Carolina, The Citadel, Richmond, and Furman.

Hatcher Aids Tennis Hopes

more work on his backhand volley, but it's nothing to get excited about.” Hatcher feels his extensive work on his
game during the summer and his opportunity, by being at Davidson, of playing tougher competition have helped him greatly.

NO PREFERENCE

Asked whether he preferred singles or doubles, Hatcher said, “It depends on how I’m playing at the time and what
kind of mood I’m in. Doubles is more aggressive, whereas, in singles, you use a little more strategy. Overall, though,
I never prefer one over the other for very long.” Strategy is Hatcher's biggest problem at the present time, according
to Fogleman. “It’s a slow process. He'll get it with experience.” The toughest opponent for Hatcher is “one who really
concentrates all the time and wants to win — the kind that doesn't waste points. Many players waste several points
in a match. Bill Council is the tough kind who never wastes one.”

TOURNEYS WOULD HELP PRESTIGE

Fogleman says he feels Hatcher would definitely benefit from playing in a lot of tournaments this summer. "You have to
let yourself be known and exposed throughout the area if you're going to be recognized." Hatcher has been almost unbeatable
this season, sporting a 10-1 singles record in his number three spot. He has added a great deal of steadiness
and balance to the team. Fogleman is lavish in his praise of Hatcher. “It’s a pleasure to work with a
nice, young, clean-cut, good-natured American boy. He reminds me a lot of tennis great Tony Trabert.”

Two FB Seniors Win Recognition

Head football coach Homer Smith announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday that seniors Dick Short and Steve Smith received Honorable Mention
distinction on the Academic All-American Football Team. The College Sports Information Directors of America made the selections. Short, a middle
linebacker from Hammond, La., is a pre-ministerial student who will serve as an assistant football coach here next season. A
halfback from Camilla, Ga., Smith is listed in Who's Who In American Colleges and Universities, and is a business major.

THE GOLF JACKET by LONDON FOG

Bush Wilson Lin.
Davidson, N. C.
Greenville, S. C.
