DAVIDSON RELAYS TOMORROW
Trackmen Host Tough Field
By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Nineteen teams will participate in the eighth annual Davidson Relays tomorrow. The first events will get underway at 1:30 p.m.

"I'm afraid it looks like East Tennessee State will sweep the field again this year," sighed ‘Cat track Coach Heath Whittle. "I don’t think that anyone can even provide them with interesting competition."

"I saw East Tennessee win the News-Piedmont Relays down at Furman a few weeks ago," continued Coach Whittle, "and I was very much impressed. They did very well at the VMI Indoor Relays several months ago against such tough competition as Carolina and Maryland."

RELAY STRENGTH
"East Tennessee's strength lies in their relay teams," explained Coach Whittle. "Since we award ten points for first place winners in relay events while only five for field event winners, it really pays to have strong relay teams. I expect East Tennessee to take every relay that they enter."

Second place honors look wide open this year with Frederick, Lenoir Rhyne, and the Wildcats as probable contenders. The ‘Cats capped six straight relay crowns until the Buccaneers stole their top spot honors last year by a three-point margin.

DOG-EAT-DOG
"It looks like a dog-eat-dog battle for second and third places," commented Whittle, "but I'm not really very optimistic about our chances this year. This is just not our season. We've got some real strength in field events, but I’m afraid we'll be hurting in the relays."

Some of that Wildcat field strength includes junior Lou Hill in the broad and triple jump events. Hill has jumped over 22 feet this year, inches shy of the meet record set last season by Sam Holcombe of Lenoir Rhyne. Hill has leaped 43 feet in the triple jump, one foot short of the meet record.

Also beefing up the field department will be Bill Kendrick in the javelin throw and Bill Randolph in the shot put. Randolph's best put this season was 44 feet, but he'll have to beat that if he expects to top the meet record of 48 feet, 8 inches.

RECORDS FELL
Last year six track records fell by the wayside, as competitors set new marks in the 2 mile relay (Davidson), 880 yd. relay (East Tenn.), Sprint Medley (Cumberland), 440 yd. relay (Davidson), distance medley (Davidson), discus (Andy Boggs of Davidson), high jump (Keith Fraser of Davidson), and pole vault (Davidson, East Tenn., Lenoir Rhyne).

The longest standing record is the javelin (192 feet, 1 inch), set by Ken Rohnke of Washington and Lee in 1959.

Deacons Mangle ‘Cat Thinclads
The Wildcat track team lost a dual meet to Wake Forest last Tuesday afternoon 99-16. To add to the defeat, the freshman Wild-Kittens were also upended 78-55 by the Wake freshman.

A few of the individuals who brightened this otherwise dismal day for the Wildcats were Randy Randolph who scored first place finishes in the shot put and the discus and a third in the javelin, and Star Evins who won the 220 yard dash. Many of the winning times were a little slow due to the light rain that fell throughout the meet.

In other running events, Andy Little placed second in the two-mile run and third in the mile. Bob Myers was second in the 440 followed by John Flowers. Evins and Tom Caldwell came in second and third, respectively, in the 100 yard dash, and Barry St. Clair placed second in the 880.

Lou Hill was Davidson's second high point man with a first in the broad jump and seconds in the triple jump and the high hurdles. Billy Blackstone also picked up three points with a second in the pole vault. David Brown picked up points for thirds in the high jump, the triple jump and the intermediate hurdles. Billy Blackstone also picked up three points with a second in the pole vault.

For the freshman, Greg Cox did his usual fine job as he won two events and had second place finishes in two others. Other freshmen winners for the Wildkittens were Bill Bryan in the discus, George Rogister in the high hurdles and Wayne Huckel in the javelin throw. Bryan's and Huckel’s winning distances surpassed the winning throws in the varsity meet.

Smith Reveals 20 Grid Recruits
Coach Homer Smith recently announced the names of 20 football recruits for the coming year. The group is the largest single contingent of scholarship players ever recruited by Davidson. The roster includes five ends, four quarterbacks, four halfbacks, three tackles, two fullbacks, a guard and one center-linebacker. Coach Smith singled out two North Carolinians for high praise.

Spring Practice Continues As Coaches Sight Season
By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Spring practice for football players is a time for the drudgery of conditioning, running and contact executed beneath a hot sun one day and spring showers the next. For coaches it is a period of evaluating and indoctrinating the athletes who will compete under autumn’s skies in the name of their school.

For next fall's aggregation of Davidson Wildcats, this spring involves adapting offensive and defensive systems to the personnel. "We'll line up differently this year because we have to plan our game around what each of our players can do," commented Coach Homer Smith. One change already made has been scrapping the tweener back. "We have no big blocker to adequately fill that position." Innovations which are being experimented with now may result in a more wide-open attack next fall.

As illustrated by the practices thus far, the Wildcats can once again rely on hustle and desire to compensate for the lack of depth. While the staff is pleased by the squad's attitude, Coach Smith stated, "Almost everyone is having to learn more than one position during spring practice, and most of them are learning offense and defense. We plan to platoon next fall, but some will go both ways."

In the same vein, he added, "I can't imagine anyone I see out there now not playing next year. The freshmen are progressing well, and all of them will get plenty of experience."Slaughter, our smallest lineman, has been pleasing. “I doubt if any group ever faced a bigger challenge than this team will face next fall.” How are these Wildcats preparing for this task? “By hard work on fundamentals,” replied Coach Smith. “So far we have had no serious injuries. We are staging a minimum of scrimmage—working in a few plays and defenses during each session.”

SHONEY’S DRIVE-IN
Home Of The BIG BOY
For a Soft Drink or a Full Dinner—The perfect place to come this weekend
10 Per Cent Discount To D. C. Students
Three Locations
800 E. Morehead
3400 Plaza
3700 E. Independence Blvd.
Franklin and New Hope Rd. — Gastonia, N. C.
To Serve You!

Praise. They are end Mike Kelly from North Mecklenburg and Mike Culbreth, a center linebacker from North Forsyth High. “Kelly's potential is unlimited,” remarked Smith, “while Culbreth has the height and range to be a wonderful college football player.”

Other recruits are:
Ends — George Hannen, Durham; Garrel Nicholson, Thomasville; Tommy Norwood, Durham; Lynn Himes, CMA.
Halfbacks — Ken Hill, Aiken, S. C.; Carl Slater, Burlington; Joe Kilpatrick, Short Hills, N. J.; Whit Morrow, Albemarle.
Quarterbacks — Terry Millar, Florence, S. C.; Garth Hampton, Barrington, R. I.; Gordon Slade, Evansville, Ind.; Ken Crews, Oklahoma City, Okla.
Fullbacks — John Zaharov, Richmond, Va.; Steve Butler, Arlington, Va.
Tackles — Gary Hemric, Burlington; Glen Alexander, Rayville, La.; Dave Thompson, Philadelphia.
Guard — Terry Esterkamp, Cincinnati.

Riflemen End With Bullseyes (Staff Photo by Olson)

EDDIE RICE PASSES BATON TO TONY ORSBON
Wake Take Freshman Track Meet, Too

MEETING GA. SOUTHERN AGAIN
Basemen’s Cold Bats Bow To Wilmington, Richmond

Disaster struck the Davidson Wildcats this week as they suffered defeats at the hands of Wilmington and Richmond in what were once the friendly confines of Wildcat Stadium. Wilmington came to town with a polished team on Spring Frolics weekend. The ‘Cats’ pitching was, according to Coach Tom Stevens, “good enough to win on both days,” but the Seahawks’ pitchers threw too many curves for the weak ‘Cat stickmen.

WILMINGTON PREVAILS
On Friday Howard Bryan pitched his usual fine ball game, but had no support from the bats and suffered a 4-1 defeat. On Saturday Charlie Elliott and the Seahawks’ pitcher, Braxy Braxton were deadlocked 1-1 going into the tenth inning. With two out and one man on by virtue of an error, shortstop Butch Harris jumped on a hanging curve ball and put the game (and the ball) away for the Seahawks, 3-1. Again, needless to say, the bats didn't seem to have any hits in them.

On Tuesday the Wildcats took on Southern Conference foe Richmond, and again, met with bat-trouble. “But the mental lapses (especially on the bases), and the physical errors (four in one inning) killed us like they have in six or eight games this season,” commented Coach Stevens. Bryan was again a 4-1 victim. Poor baserunning choked off what might have been a last-inning rally.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — CHOICE — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Your First life insurance policy, however small, can lay the foundation for lifetime security. We specialize in this service. For a head start on the right road to Financial Independence, compare before you buy. See us—
The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE Insurance Company
“Because there IS a difference!”
R. T. Stone
North Main Street—Davidson
692-1424

In the second game, Henry Wilmer made a courageous effort, but control trouble brought in bullpen ace Buddy Durham; then Bryan again appeared. The ‘Cats suffered again from a fit of “dropsy” and, though the batsmen managed four runs, the ‘Cats fell victims of fielding suicide, 8-4. This left the team with a 3-5 conference record and a 7-15 overall book.

This Friday and Saturday, Georgia Southern will invade Davidson for two games. They have an experienced, talented team which is always good. “They have the best defense of any team we've seen this year,” Stevens pointed out. But though the ‘Cats fell to them 12-1, the team feels that they can beat the Eagles. However, as Coach Stevens explained, “If Georgia Southern gets beaten, you have to beat them; they don’t beat themselves like we often do.”

The Eagles are led by shortstop John Szotkiewicz, a great glove man and a dependable hitter. Wilmer will probably pitch for the ‘Cats Friday, with Bryan going on Saturday.

BELMONT TUESDAY
On Wednesday the team journeys to Belmont to play the Abbey's Crusaders, who are greatly improved over last year. They play subsidized baseball, are doing well, have experience all around and should be tough at home.

Davidson's ROTC rifle team finished well in the Southern Conference and the Army tournaments at the close of the season. The straight-shooting squad redeemed a dismal 3-9 regular-season record by its performance in these tournaments. The Wildcats were fourth in the Southern Conference tourney behind West Virginia, VMI and The Citadel. This tournament was held March 5, on the Fort Lee, Va. range.

The marksmen of Major Harold J. Fraley and Sergeant Henry Eaves brought in a first place in the Third US Army Sectional Tournament, a second in the NC State Invitational tourney and a fifth in the Western Carolina Conference meet.

Bolstering the team's hopes for next year will be Walter Eastes, this year's second highest average shooter with a season mark of 248, Frank Powell, Art Abplanalp, Alex Riddle and Mike Yarborough. Gone will be this year's top shooter, Jim Kopp. Kopp sported a 262 average for the season.

About his team, Sergeant Eaves commented, “The team did very well in the tournaments this year. Major Fraley and I are very pleased with this performance. Next year’s team should be really fine with the help of experienced varsity shots and some promising freshmen.”

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Anything goes when you wear “IT'S CRICKET”™ Exceptional Men's Toiletries. Try it and see. (Girl: After-shave, 4 oz., $3.50, Cologne, 4 oz., $4.50. Available in drug stores and cosmetic departments of department stores. Another fine product of Kayser Roth. Give it and find out!)