By SAM SMITH
Davidson Junior Abroad

Philipps University—Marburg was founded in 1527, becoming the first Protestant university in the world. It has been known until recently for its theological faculty, which included Rudolf Bultmann. Marburg has a population of 45,000. The Davidson Juniors arrived in the fall and found themselves in one of the world’s most sunless spots. A criticism of the physical layout of the university is the unreasonable distance between the classrooms, dormitories, and various institutes and libraries. This seems typical of German universities. As a student in Hamburg said, “We don't spend as much time here in class as in America, but the extra hours are made up in study.”

Msonian REPORT
JUNIOR YEAR IN GERMANY
FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966
PAGE THREE

Juniors Wa
By JON WARD
Davidson Junior Abroad

In the beginning was the ship, and the ship was with students, and the ship was students. In them was the beginning of life... in a sea of darkness. And I come for testimony, to bear witness to the life. The scenery across the Atlantic was not particularly exciting, but the voyage was most enjoyable for the more balanced students. Upon arrival in Le Havre, everyone parted in sweet sorrow, rolled into Paris by luxurious French express, gathered once again in the Parisian train station, and were rapidly carried into the city by astounding French systemization. We had several days of sunshine and a well-coordinated tour of the city by the Student Travel Service. An even closer perspective of French life, day and night, was available to us during our stay. Once in Munich, we took leave to our respective Goethe Institutes in Bavaria in order to study the German language. Several of us suffered new experiences that first night in Germany, including the three who found “no room in the inn.”

Dr. T. Williams, assistant professor of French, announced last week, “We have 12 signed up to go to Germany and 13 to France for next year’s Junior Year Abroad. Vacancies still exist for any sophomores desiring to participate in the program,” Williams said. “Our quota is 15 for each country, so we can accommodate several more in each group.” Last year, when students came by May, vacancies still existed. Dr. Wruck, assistant professor of German, and Dr. Williams will accompany next year’s groups in Marburg and Montpellier, respectively.

PHILIPPS UNIVERSITY
By TUCKER LAXTON
Davidson Junior Abroad

Philipps University (of which 2,500 are co-eds) is small compared with other German universities. The size limits the variety of courses but avoids to some extent the impersonality of larger schools. Living conditions in Marburg are good. Meals in the Mensa (government subsidized) are 25 cents each and are edible but sometimes monotonous and not always so delicious. One often hears that German student bodies are much less friendly than American. This is not always true. For instance, it’s very impolite (or very “amerikanisch”) to ask a girl for her name, and a German fellow shakes hands (I’ve heard) with a girl after the first half-dozen dates before attempting any sort of good night kiss. 

Davidson Away From Davidson For 14 Juniors
By JIM MAY
Davidson Junior Abroad

While living in German homes, the 14 Davidson students participating in the Junior Year in Germany program spent the months of September and October improving their German in four Goethe Institutes in Bavaria. The purpose of this was two-fold: first, to enable the student to improve his spoken and written German; and second, to provide a period of acclimation when the student could become accustomed to the different German customs before entering the University at Marburg in November. Jon Ward, Ned Kelley, and Bill Ramsey were stationed in Bad Aibling; Rob Rhea, Hal Dial, and Dick Brannenburg; Jim May, Karl Laxton, Will North, and Herb Jackson in Kochel; and Ricky Pfitzner, George Barney, Sam Miller, and Tucker Smith in Bad Reichenhall. Brannenburg, Bad Aibling, and Kochel were in relatively close proximity to Munich, whereas Bad Reichenhall was in the very southeast corner of Germany near Salzburg, Austria.

Although each Goethe Institute had its own particular system and schedule of instruction, each of the Davidson students attended class an average of five or six hours on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and three hours on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday mornings. Thus, every other afternoon was free for study or short trips to neighboring towns.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

were reduced to a "Bierstube" floor. We said farewell to the French students and departed by train for Munich, gaining a good view. The various Goethe Institutes are in extremely scenic locations. Between classes, it was no problem to wander along numerous paths within the gently rolling mountains speckled with "Gasthauser" and old Bavarian farmhouses. In September and October, the warm and beautiful weather enchanted the land. We could find "ein schönes Mädchen" ascending to a peaceful guesthouse, study, drink beer, eat good German kuchen, etc. It is no problem to travel by train throughout Europe. Nothing is very distant in Europe, and we can easily make small excursions to Munich, Salzburg, Vienna, Innsbruck, or any place we want to see, by thumb or by train.

Munich has much to offer, as does any large city, and we naturally took advantage of the "Weltausstellung" and "Oktoberfest." Here another aspect of German life is seen in the thousands of people drinking, singing, and swinging along with a big Bavarian brass band. Salzburg, with its castle, churches, Glockenspiel, and Mozart, is as beautiful and interesting as pictured in "The Sound of Music." Vienna is truly a city of culture and one in which to spend several days and naturally mix with the elite in the "Staatsoper," a privilege costing as little as 25 cents. Innsbruck and Kufstein lie only one or two hours from Munich and are nestled in the higher Austrian mountains.

With a week's pause between Goethe Institute and Marburg University, some of us went to Marburg by way of Yugoslavia, Berlin, Paris, London, Austria, and Switzerland. From the reports, Yugoslavia was by far the least expensive. Tucker Laxton and I went by way of Venice, Florence, Rome, Milan, Zurich, Basel, and along the Rhein. The trip over Brenner Pass into Italy was beautiful. Venice was cruising along the Grand Canal in a gondola, seeing the stately Basilica San Marco, hearing the Italian music in the air, and witnessing the rhythm of the Italian people.

Marburg itself is a town of scenic and historical beauty with its 700-year-old castle, early Gothic church, Bismarck tower, old stone and wood-gabled houses, and narrow streets. Since being here, a few "Ausländer" made an excursion with the University through the Ruhrgebiet and surrounding areas. We glimpsed the industry, visited the opera, and discussed cigars and Rhine wine with the Bürgermeister in Warendorf and the Chamber of Commerce in Essen. Germany is a great place to see and is especially nice because of the friendliness of the German people.

(By the author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!", "Dobie Gillis," etc.)

ROMAN IN THE GLOAMIN'

Now as the end of the first semester draws near, one fact emerges clearly: you are all going to flunk out of school. There are two things you can do about it. First, you can marry money. (I don’t mean you marry the money itself; I mean you marry a person who has money. Weddings between people and currency have not been legal anywhere in the United States since the Smoot-Hawley Act. Personna® Stainless Steel Blades, on the other hand, are legal everywhere and are, indeed, used with great pleasure and satisfaction in all fifty states of the Union and Duluth. I bring up Personna Stainless Steel Blades because this column is sponsored by the makers of Personna Stainless Steel Blades, and they are inclined to get edgy if I omit to mention their product. Some of them get edgy and some get double-edgy because Personna Blades come both in Injector style and Double Edge style.)

But I digress. I was saying you can marry money but, of course, you will not because you are a high-minded, clean-living, pure-hearted, freckle-faced American kid. Therefore, to keep from flunking, you must try the second method: you must learn how to take lecture notes. According to a recent survey, eleven out of ten American undergraduates do not know the proper way to take lecture notes. To illustrate this appalling statistic, let us suppose you are taking a course in history. Let us further suppose the lecturer is lecturing on the ruling houses of England. You listen intently. You write diligently in your notebook, making a topic outline as you have been taught. Like this:

I. House of Plantagenet.
II. House of Lancaster.
III. House of York.

Then you stop. You put aside your pen. You blink back a tear, for you cannot go on. Oh, yes, you know very well that the next ruling house is the House of Tudor. The trouble is you don’t know the Roman numeral that comes after III. It may, incidentally, be of some comfort to learn that you are not the only people who don’t know Roman numerals. The fact is, the Romans never knew them either. Oh, I suppose they could tell you how much V or X were or like that, but when it came to real zingers like LXI or MMC, they just flung away their styluses and went downtown to have a bath or take in a circus or maybe stab Caesar a few times.

You may wonder why Rome stuck with these ridiculous numerals when the Arabs had such a nice, simple system. Well, sir, the fact is that Emperor Vespasian tried like crazy to buy the Arabic numerals from Suleiman The Magnificent, but Suleiman wouldn’t do business—not even when Vespasian raised his bid to 100,000 gold piastres, plus he offered him the Colosseum, the Appian Way, and Technicolor. So Rome stuck with Roman numerals—to its sorrow, as it turned out. One day in the Forum, Cicero and Pliny got to arguing about how much is CDL times MVIX. Well, sir, pretty soon everyone in town came around to join the hassle. In all the excitement, nobody remembered to lock the north gate and—wham! before you could say ars longa—in rushed the Goths, the Visigoths, and the Green Bay Packers!

Well, sir, that’s the way the empire crumbles, and I digress. Let’s get back to lecture notes. Let’s also say a word about Burma Shave®. Why? Because Burma Shave is made by the makers of Personna Blades who, it will be recalled, are the sponsors of this column. They are also the sponsors of the ultimate in shaving luxury. First, coat your kisser with Burma Shave, regular or menthol—or, if you are the devil-may-care sort, some of each. Then whisk off your stubble with an incredibly sharp, unbelievably durable Personna Blade, Injector or Double Edge—remembering first to put the blade in a razor. The result: facial felicity, cutaneous cheer, epidermal elysium. Whether you shave every day, every III days, or every VII, you'll always find Personna and Burma Shave a winning combination.

**-*
© 1966, Max Shulman

Personnam amo, Tom Personnam amat, Dick Personnam amat, Harry Personnam amat—quique Personnam amant—et quoque amabitis.