PAGE SIX

PRAM Selects 14 For Summer Travel

The Project of the Americas has selected 14 college students to spend this summer in Ecuador and Bolivia. Erskine Sproul,
PRAM president, told THE DAVIDSONIAN that four students from Davidson and the remainder from Queens, UNC-C, Sacred Heart, Vanderbilt, Duke,
and UNC-G, will undergo several training sessions to orient them to local customs and economic conditions.

The first such training session was held last weekend at Queens as the group heard talks by Capus Waynick, former
ambassador to Colombia and Nicaragua, and Dr. Louise Nelson, assistant professor of economics at Davidson. Waynick’s talk was subsequently televised
over WBTV.

“We now have received approximately $7,500 in our goal to reach $20,000 to finance the summer visit,” Sproul said, “and
we have several very good prospects for getting several thousand more dollars.”

Beard Heads YRC

Conservative Joe Beard promised unity for the campus Young Republicans as he defeated Roland Edison 21-19 for the top post
in the Young Republican Club. The Republicans also picked Steve Sands to serve as vice-president, Dave Lewis as secretary, and
Jim MacNair as assistant treasurer.

Beard stated: “We plan to promote Republicanism on campus in the best possible way, in every honorable way.”

Slow Teachers Cause Delayed Spring Report

Mid-semester grade reports were late this spring because 25 professors did not turn in their grades on time. Grades were
supposed to have been available March 24, but were not issued until last Friday.

Registrar F. W. Hengeveld stated, “I don't know whether I can give a reason or not. If you can tell
me why a professor fails to turn in grades, I would appreciate it.”

“The catalogue tells when grades are to come out,” he explained. “Two weeks before that date we send out notices
to the professors.”

“We have no way of forcing them to turn in their grades. Now in summer school we hold their checks
until they turn them in. Then they give exams in the morning and have the grades in that afternoon.”

“During the regular school year we can't schedule a grade report so that it will fall at the end of
the month. Anyway, I don't think the faculty and the administration would approve it.”

The total of 25 delinquent professors was the worst that Hengeveld could remember. He added that some still have not
compiled their grades.

“It fouls up the whole counseling program when the grades are late. The Dean’s Office can't start on its work,
determining which students are below the minimum of 12 hours and 12 quality points for the semester,” Hengeveld revealed. “We
had hoped to get the reports out before the holidays so that students could talk to their counselors before going
home. The faculty feels that this is necessary.”

“We mailed reports to homes on Friday so that the students would be back at school to get their grades
before the reports reached their homes.”

He indicated that he had no suggestion for preventing such occurrences again. “The only thing we can do is plead
and encourage the professors to turn their grades in on time.”

“We have a chart in the office showing which professors fail to do so. It's open for the students or
anyone to see.”

“You can understand when a man fails to turn his grades in on time once or twice, but when he
does it consistently, it is a different matter. The professors should be more responsible.”

Revised Fraternity Position Standings

Pi Kappa Alpha held top place as Fraternity Officer Tom Covington announced new fraternity averages for last semester. The averages
which appeared in the March 24 DAVIDSONIAN were incorrect because they included the totals for pledges who were not yet
official members of the fraternities. Sigma Nu benefited most from the revision, jumping from seventh to second place.

Fraternity Fall Semester Average
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.995
Sigma Nu 1.891
Alpha Tau Omega 1.873
Phi Delta Theta 1.821
Sigma Chi 1.809
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.808
Pi Kappa Phi 1.754
Kappa Alpha Order 1.720
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.709
Beta Theta Pi 1.688
Phi Gamma Delta 1.640
Kappa Sigma 1.633
All Fraternity Average 1.778

Chapel Vote To Decide Easter Gift Fund

Davidson students will decide Monday how the YMCA gift fund will be spent this year. Chaplain Will Terry told THE
DAVIDSONIAN that offerings will be collected in vespers for the next two weeks to supply the money for the fund.
One other such offering will be collected later in the semester. There will be no dorm solicitation as in the
past. The amount of money to be collected for the fund has not yet been determined.

In Monday's chapel, the proposals will be made for different ways of spending the money. Walt McDonald, a 1964 graduate,
will present the case for establishing a scholarship fund for underprivileged girls in Charlotte. The second suggestion is that the
gift be made to the inter-city program at the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, N.Y. A number of Davidson
students have worked there in the summer, and a 1965 graduate, Art Ross, is working there full time. The project
was proposed by Ken Anderson and Stan Link.

Johnson Attends Model UN

Sam Johnson is attending a Model United Nations Security Council at Hollins College, Va. He left yesterday for the conference
which will last until tomorrow. His trip is being sponsored by the Student Council. Davidson is one of the few
Southern schools being represented; a number of Northeastern schools, including Yale, Harvard, and Princeton will be represented.

Keynoting the Model Security Council session will be Lord Caradon, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and permanent United Kingdom
representative at the United Nations. As Sir Hugh Foot, he had previously served as permanent UK representative on the UN
Trusteeship Council. He was also Governor and Commander-in-Chief in Cyprus from 1957 until it gained independence in 1960.

Social Council Sets Weekend Activities

The Womenfolk will be the featured performers at the Saturday night concert of Spring Frolics, to be held in Chambers
Auditorium from 8 to 10. This group of five females have recorded several albums of folk music, rising rapidly in
popularity.

Following the concerts both Friday and Saturday nights, there will be films shown in the Morrison Room and a juke
box in the basement of the Union in lieu of a live combo.

Friday night, (Saturday morning) there will be a breakfast in the Union from 3 to 4:30. The Social Council has
been pleased with the response to these breakfasts thus far and is anticipating a big turnout for this one. Tickets
will be on sale next week with a deadline of Thursday noon.

Saturday afternoon the Social Council is sponsoring a Hamburger Cookout at the Lake Campus from 5 to 6:30. The meal
consists of two hamburgers, slaw, potato salad, and a drink, for $1. Tickets will be sold next week with the
same Thursday noon deadline as for the Breakfast tickets.

After extensive research by Pinckney Whitson and a detailed explanation to the Social Council of the need for a good
sound system, the Social Council voted to appropriate funds for a complete all-weather system to be used by the Social
Council in its various presentations.

The system will consist of two condenser microphones, one pre-amplifier, one compressor amplifier, and one power amplifier, plus two speaker
systems in weatherproofed cases. Each speaker system will contain two 15 in. woofers and one 500-22,000 cycle exponential horn. Along
with the aforementioned equipment will go the appropriate cords, wires, and accessories.

Maintenance and setup of the system will be handled by interested students. The Social Council consented to rent the equipment
to the college for events such as graduation if it is needed. The total outlay of $1600 for the sound
system will be split between the Social Council and the administration.This year's and just fail to do their homework." |
next year’s social budget.

Noted Author Sweezy Set To Speak Tuesday

The “New Friends for Davidson” drive has gotten off to a very successful start. Over $7,000 has already been raised
by Davidson College students over the spring break. Three students — Bill Kendrick, Duff Armfield, and Clyde Timmons — raised
over $1,000 apiece. The three contributions came from three different sources — one from a corporation, one from a foundation,
and one from a private individual. Another student who was merely chatting with a businessman in his hometown about Davidson
happened to mention the program to him and immediately received a check for several hundred dollars.

The drive was originated by the Alumni Office and was later handed over to a steering committee consisting of Bill
Kendrick, Dan Campbell, Paul Simpson, Ed Armfield, and coordinator Joe Jelks. The Ford Foundation has agreed to give the College
$40 for every $100 raised in this drive, which lasts until June 30. A number of students are planning to
make contacts during the early part of the summer and try to raise more money from their “new friends.” If
any student is unsure of how to approach a person with this idea, Jelks said, he should talk to any
of the students who have already raised money or any member of the steering committee.

Kendrick, who collected his money from a corporation, said: “The experience of soliciting money for Davidson from a corporation that
is in no way connected with Davidson College is both unique and interesting. The student is given the chance to
sell both himself and his college, and, in my case at least, can be overwhelmed at the response.”

“I know that I was rather hesitant about approaching potential donors at first,” commented Timmons, “but I found that this
was a real opportunity to meet and talk with people and to make contacts with successful businessmen.”

Armfield had this to say about his experience: “Regardless of whether one might wish to contribute to Davidson, I was
very much impressed by the general interest shown toward Davidson. It became a matter of pride to solicit for Davidson.”

Alumni Director Bill Bondurant capped the conversation with this remark: “It certainly was a wonderful feeling to see those three
boys come in on Monday morning with checks for over $1,000."

Dr. Paul M. Sweezy, editor of Monthly Review and former professor of economics at Harvard, Cornell, and Stanford, will speak
in chapel next Tuesday, April 12. A native of New York, Dr. Sweezy received his AB and PhD from Harvard
University and also studied at the London School of Economics. He served on the faculty at Harvard from 1937 to
1946 and in 1949 became editor of Monthly Review, a position he has held since then. Dr. Sweezy won the
David A. Wells prize in 1938 and was the recipient of the demobilization award of the Social Science Research Council
in 1946. Dr. Sweezy is a noted author. His most recognized work is The Present as History. In addition, he
has written three other books and numerous articles in professional journals.

Back Seat Love, Airplane Falls Are Sources For James Dickey

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Editor

What does the modern young poet find to write about? If visiting lecturer James Dickey is any indication, he writes
about anything that enters his mind, from falling from an airplane to making love in the back seat of an
old junked Pierce Arrow.

Invited to visit the Davidson campus by the English department, Dickey gave a reading of several of his poems in
Hodson Hall last night. Standing around 6 feet 2 inches and weighing about 210 pounds, Dickey casually kept the audience’s
attention with anecdotes about the origins of his ideas, usually from his childhood in North Georgia.

Dickey's poetry is marked by powerful images, made even more so by the poet’s rapid, strong delivery. The picture of
stacked autos, inhabited by roaches, black snakes, and toads is pounded at the listener, as teenage lovers strive to meet
each other in the privacy of an old Pierce Arrow, in “Cherry Log Road.” Another piece, “The Aura” deals with
the teenage fad, the transistor radio. A father's son is killed when in his early teens, and the father is
left with the only reminder of his son, the eternal music from the radio. In such a subtle way, Dickey
lodges his protest against a society which would allow such a terrible situation to exist.

In a critical work, Suspect in Poetry, Dickey makes the statement that poetry exists to be experienced, and, likewise, should
come from the poet's own personal experience. This is exactly the case in his own poems: he waits until he
is sure of a theme and then writes about it.

Two of the selections dealt with subjects which would have been taboo two decades ago: adultery and bestiality. “I received
the key for ‘Adultery’ from the film Harlow,” he said. Sex is an escape from death and despair for the
two guilt-ridden but helpless lovers. “Sheep Child” deals with a legend he had heard while growing up in north Georgia,
that cohabitation with a sheep would result in an offspring half-beast and half-human. The poem is sickening to think about
and does not seem very poetical, but in reality is a part of the new emphasis in poetry that everything
is material.

The poem which received most of the plaudits from the audience, however, was “Falling,” a potent and moving description of
a fall from a high-flying airplane. Said one listener, “It was simply beautiful, because of the violence of it.” Dickey
got the idea of the poem from a news release in the New York Times, describing the death of a
stewardess who was sucked out of the plane at high altitude, falling into a cornfield. The most peculiar thing about
it was that she had no clothes on when she was found, and authorities said she must have taken them
off during the fall. What follows is his description of what she must have felt while plummeting to earth. What
seems to be a whole realization of life passes before her eyes, exhilarating her to proportions unknown to her before.
It is this feeling that must have moved her to remove her clothes so that she could in every sense
be free. Dickey seems to say that you haven’t lived until you fall to your death.

This Weekend of All Weekends you should look neat. Let us dry clean your clothes and launder your shirts.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across From The Gulf Station
Davidson, N. C.

PLANNING or COLLEGE MEN
Your future starts the day you plan for it and sound planning starts with a call to:
T. Stone
The Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co.
North Main Street
892-8865

Spring frolics brings around the time for those new Sport Coats, Slacks and Shirts

The Gant Story

We believe that Gant shirts have a certain well-bred look that distinguishes them from all others. Careful tailoring and adherence
to a strict tradition are qualities indigenous to Gant. The emphasis here is on meticulous detail in heritage of conservatism.
Do you like a really neat, well-fitting collar? Softly flared collar construction is gently RIGHT. Do you want to hang
your shirt up? A trim hanger loop sees to that. Room to breathe? Oversize body construction is the answer. There's
a full-length box pleat back for trimness, too. Precise stitching lets the easy barrel cuffs roll up at mid-point. The
Gant shirt has been designed to serve you through a lifetime of correct dressing. There is painstaking workmanship in every
fine Gant shirt...it comes from the expert craft of New England's finest shirtmakers. The craft explains why the careful details
of these Gant shirts have been many times imitated but never duplicated.

Make this your best frolics ever with a new outfit from Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.
Greenville, S. C.
