Che BDavidsontan

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

LOUIS LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966

(Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editor.)

Let ‘Em Stay

We never get used to it. Even a mid-semester Senior, hardened after four years of experiencing the thrice-annual dance-weekend, finds the spectacle of hundreds of girls on the Davidson campus difficult to accept. It just doesn't seem right. And by the time he’s adjusted to the situation, they’ve gone again. Which prompts us to make a plea to the powers that be: Let 'em stay.

Lest this appeal be interpreted as a frivolous salute to our welcome guests, let us hasten to add that such a suggestion is made in complete seriousness. While the Davidson gentleman finds the idea of a coeducational Davidson understandably foreign, after years of thinking of the school as “a small liberal arts college for men,” the phrase itself is something of a contradiction. For a liberal arts education to be gained in four years in the presence of only one sex seems impossible.

The college catalogue explains that Davidson “emphasizes those studies, disciplines, and activities which liberate men physically, mentally, and spiritually.” But an integral part of an education is found in a man's relations with the opposite sex. The two-day dance weekend crammed full of concerts, after-parties, and lakeside picnics is not an effective means of cultivating an effective relationship with a girl. Nor is the Saturday night jaunt to a nearby girls’ school, consisting of four hours spent at a movie or drinking beer.

The complaint of Davidson being a suitcase college is indeed justified, but what alternative does the student have? Aside from the infrequent on-campus social events, there are no outlets for developing satisfying friendships with the opposite sex. Were Davidson to become coeducational, such unexciting events as study dates or working on the newspaper could become real opportunities to know a girl as she really is, not how well she dances and what color her hair is.

Davidson has the physical possibilities to become coeducational. The college owns more than enough land to the north of the present campus to build a girls’ campus. For the Davidson Gentlemen to become truly liberated, we repeat our plea: Let ‘em stay.

Reform By Whom?

An announcement coming out of last week’s faculty meeting indicating long-range plans for study and eventual revamping of the entire curriculum could be a milestone in Davidson's history. While other schools have been moving ahead in fields such as independent study, Davidson has been content to boast of a Humanities program formed four years ago and an honors program restricted to a small percentage of majors in a department who maintain fairly high averages. Both programs are good, but they alone are not enough. Davidson must step out boldly for more changes.

Improvements made earlier this year by the History and German Departments, expanding the number of seminar courses and making the major with honors program open to more students, serve as a step in the right direction. One aspect of the proposed curriculum study which concerns us is the role students will play in the examination. Since the committee which will direct the study has not yet been appointed and few definite steps have been taken in that direction, we cannot say with certainty what the administration expects in the way of student response. However, we are certain that student opinion will be welcomed by all faculty members, whether committee members or not.

Students have always been quick to press for liberalized rules dealing with student conduct and individual responsibility. These goals are entirely in keeping with the goals of a liberal arts college. But they alone are not enough. Any reforms in the curriculum will undoubtedly also be taken in the direction of more student initiative and responsibility. For such changes to be made with no student participation would be ridiculous. But if they are so made, it will be because of a lack of interest and initiative on students’ part.

While we have no way of knowing what the eventual outcome of the project will be, since it will necessarily be a long-range one, we urge students to begin now considering and discussing what are the reforms needed to make Davidson a first-rate academic institution.

From The Ivory Tower

There is an old myth that the members of academe are locked away in an ivory tower of intellectualism, which protects them from the cold, hard facts of life in the real world. The myth asserts that intellectuals are too concerned with the theoretical and the abstract to become involved in the petty day-to-day matters of the world. Dr. J. G. Martin helped to destroy some of the authenticity of that myth when he threw his hat into the ring this week as a candidate for the Mecklenburg Board of County Commissioners.

Whether or not one agrees with Dr. Martin’s Republican candidacy or with his political views is not of import here. Party labels and political persuasions are generally not determining factors of the effectiveness of groups such as the Board of Commissioners. It is generally more dependent on a group of men with a motivating concern for finding solutions to community problems. What is of more importance to Davidson is this evidence that a member of the community has stepped down from his imaginary pedestal and shown the area outside of this hamlet that he is willing to become involved in the sometimes dirty business of politics to bring about a more decent community.

Editorial Staff

JOHN BAILEY
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS
Managing Editors

CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER
News Editor

ROBBIE HOOKER
Feature Editor

LINDSAY DAVIS
Copy Editor

RICK MILDNER
Magazine Editors

Sports Editor
TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editor

YATES FAISON
Photographers

BILL OLSON
GEORGE PURVIS
Cartoonists

LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager

BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager

MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager

JOHN VISER
Contributors this week: Mike May, John Williams, Mason Stephenson, Bill Briggs, Bill Graham, Carter Fussell, Randy Bridges, Grey Pash, Bruce Weihe, Bill Seigler, Billy Farr, Mike Bates, Al Varner, Geoff Birkhead, Jim Morrow, Britt Snider, Bob Reid, Cliff Duke, K. D. Weeks, Mike Harrington, Dick Spen-

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Dear Editor:

Tuesday the 12th I participated in a “demonstration” during the federal inspection of the ROTC cadets. In my opinion what was done was stupid and foolish. I wish to extend my deepest apologies to anyone whom I offended, although at the time I did not realize that such offense would be taken. I am a conscientious objector. I am against the existence of a national military. I still hold this belief firmly. Last Tuesday I practiced what I thought was a means of conviction.

In my mind Nazi Germany was an example of the great evil that is militarism carried to its final degree. I hoped by reminding you of Nazi Germany's militarism, I could lead you to think about the nature of the American military. However, hindsight is better than foresight. I realize now that my actions did not, and could not have had the desired effect except on a very few of you. As I should have predicted, you had no reasonable way of understanding me. That was my fault, and I apologize.

My disagreement is with a belief and an institution; certainly it is not on a personal level. My difference with many of you on the issue of the military does not affect my feelings toward you as associates and, perhaps, friends. Second, I did not want to throw any disrespect on those who have served and are serving in the armed services. Again, I disagree with them, but I respect their courage and sincerity, and I honor those who have, out of their convictions, given their lives. Third, I did not wish to indicate any lack of love and respect for the United States of America. I am one of her citizens and am proud and happy to be. The exhibition of the symbols of a government antithetical to America’s principles seems contradictory. However, it did not in all honesty occur to me that anyone might believe that I displayed these symbols out of any honor for them. To the contrary, I only wanted to remind you of our common total rejection of all that these symbols stood for.

Please do not take this letter as an excuse. I have no excuse; I admit that I acted rashly and unwisely. I can only hope that those members of the student body whom I have offended may understand me now and accept my complete apology.

SAM JOHNSON
Davidson College

Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON

Spring Frolics ‘66 will be a very wet weekend, with extremely hazardous driving conditions developing Thursday night and continuing mostly through noon Sunday. Some 700 Davidson gentlemen with the help of their dates will consume at least 300 gallons of legal alcohol worth some $5,000. Each couple will travel during the weekend an average of 150 miles on the highway, most of this distance under the influence of those 300 gallons. About $8,000 will be spent on parties and combos. Housing costs for dates will run close to $5,000. The food bill will be at least $7,500 more.Conservative estimate of Spring Frolics '66 comes to about $25,000—only about a fifth of which will find its way into the Davidson economy. Because the traditional mores of Davidson College and rural North Carolina still cling to the belief that morality (abstinence) can be legislated, there will be only a few minor automobile mishaps and scrapes with the law—if we are lucky. There will be many near tragedies—this could be the weekend when the ship hits the sand. It is a crying shame that other towns’ ABC stores, restaurants, and taverns should get all that student money. With a little ingenuity, Davidson's town council could do something more than perpetuate themselves in office—like reduction of tax rates and civic improvement with new tax revenues. 

From The New York Herald Tribune

Despite the teach-ins, marches, sit-ins, lie-downs, foul-speech movements, riots, and draft-card burnings, the nation’s college students are not a rabble of red-eyed social reformers. The fact is that campus—or rather poor campus—ranked second only to civil rights as the trigger of protests during the 1964-65 college year. And demonstrations against United States policy in Viet Nam barely beat out organized complaints against dorm regulations. So says a fresh and surprising study on “The Scope of Organized Student Protest in 1964-65” by Dr. Richard E. Peterson, 34, an Educational Testing Service associate research psychologist.

LIVING ARRANGEMENTS

Dr. Peterson stresses that on 27 issues, ranging from poor instruction to academic freedom to peace demonstrations, the number of students involved never went higher than eight percent of the various student bodies. And that top protest figure was about dormitory and other living arrangements such as women's hours in men’s dormitories. Almost as high a percentage of students complained vociferously over regulations against student drinking. Among the 849 colleges surveyed, 38 percent reported protests over civil rights, an off-campus involvement. Yet these demonstrations involved only some six percent of the students. Next came the food protests (29 percent), with less than seven percent of the students complaining.

CIVIL RIGHTS

Work or protest in the South over civil rights during the long hot summer of 1964 tied for third with dormitory regulations at 28 percent of the institutions. But Southern civil-rights work attracted only half as many students—some four percent—as did the quarrels over dorm rules. More than five percent of the students at 24 percent of the colleges and universities protested or worked for other civil rights causes. Viet Nam demonstrators were reported at 21 percent of the colleges but less than five percent of students participated. Crises about the food were at 20 percent of the colleges with almost seven percent of the students complaining.

ACADEMIC MATTERS

Relatively few students were engaged in protesting matters dealing with instruction, faculty, academic freedom, or freedom of expression at the relatively few colleges where such protests were in fact reported, says Dr. Peterson. So much for the much-publicized poor quality of faculty and the “publish or perish” issues as spurs to mass student action. But, he points out, “there obviously are substantial numbers of students willing to make known publicly their antagonism to existing situations—especially those situations where there is a perceived moral contradiction or hypocrisy. And there is every indication that numbers of student activists have been multiplying in the past five years.” In fact, Dr. Peterson says, “the current surge of student unrest and active protest must certainly be among the most significant developments in higher education, perhaps in American society, of the mid-1960s. As a cultural phenomenon, as a social force, it warrants being understood.”

INTELLIGENT STUDENTS

Like other researchers before him, Dr. Peterson finds that the highly intelligent student is the most likely to protest. Rather ironically, he points to the “relative peace” at teachers’ colleges and technical institutes. But especially in large universities of over 10,000 students—such as Berkeley—the intelligent student meets large classes, faculty disinterest, intense competition for grades—and resultant widespread cheating—control of personal life, and suddenly it's all a “rat race” and the protests are on. What next? Will the protests grow or diminish? Like the authors of the recent faculty committee report at Berkeley, Dr. Peterson believes they will grow. He is even quite specific on what the protests will be about. For example, he says, at selective universities that have not witnessed Viet Nam protests, the likelihood is “quite good that they will in the very near future.” Catholic colleges are much more likely to have organized complaints about inflexible curriculums than are independent universities. If there is a chapter of the Students for a Democratic Society on campus, the probability of student ferment is greater. “Viet Nam will be the top protest issue in the immediate future, as it already is this academic year.

CONCERN FOR POOR

However, “once the hot war is over, there is likely to be an upswing of active student interest in two broad areas.” The first, which has already begun in the cities of the North and the East, will be a concern for the “excluded”—efforts to improve the conditions of the poor, the dispossessed, and the powerless. After that will come new interest in reforms in higher education. “Restrictions on the personal behavior of students will continue to come under heavy attack,” says the 58-page study. “It is not clear that there is any great moral revolution currently in progress.” “More importantly,” Dr. Peterson concludes, “all manners of policies and practices which tend to be at odds with the best possible teaching, which prevent a genuine community of students, and which subvert opportunities for activities judged to be personally worthwhile will increasingly be targets of student agitation.” The number of agitators may remain relatively small, but who is to deny that revolutions have always been started by an active and vociferous minority?

More importantly, the lives of 1,400 would not be forced into danger on the highways.

THE PIOUS WILL REPLY...

“You didn't come to college to drink and have parties. These activities are sinful and aren't necessary. I'll look after your education, but these activities I will either pretend they do not exist or make these activities very difficult for you.” Attitudes like these cause most students to chant that old refrain (cause it’s not for knowledge etc.) just for pure spite when they don’t really mean it.

WHY WE CAME TO COLLEGE...

No one will deny that the focal point of the college experience should be the development of the intellect. But there is a place in a campus community for a little organized hell-raising. The same forces that impel brilliant students to develop their intellects also require more violent physical outlets. To grow into effective men, most males must assert their masculinity in forms their society may officially condemn. Somehow this energy must be expended in a manner satisfactory to anti-social impulses and without bringing down the law in the community. This revolt, often against authoritarianism, is frequently a forerunner of creative ability and provides the energy which maturation will channel. To smother this fire with a tough drill or a puritanical administration is to encourage this energy to reappear in a more violent form. In short, the more violent recreational outlets of Davidson gentlemen—i.e. alcohol and sex—are legitimate activities and concerns for the campus community. That college should be foremost an intellectual endeavor is true, but life in a campus community involves more than this. The Davidson campus should be a community in conflict or dialogue. In such a community there is no area of student lives that should be free of critical examination. Our objective should be a more mature and vital student intellectually, physically, and socially. To deny facilities and dialogue for these more violent physical outlets is to hinder this objective unnecessarily.

MORE BULL

The phrase “spring frolics” conjures up a beautiful nymph in some idyllic glen on a leisurely day in the warm green spring. Too bad most of us have to run from one place to another to get in all that we paid for this weekend. Behind every Davidson Don Juan stands some hot little wonder who initiated him into the rites of Spring. This is the daydream that has little semblance to what really happens on Davidson dance weekends: everyone is too tired or too high to care or remember that everything was too rushed. For the seniors, this is the last dance weekend. And while most of us will enjoy this one, we’re ready to move on. Here’s hoping that Spring Frolics ’66 is all the fun and excitement that a good dance weekend should be. But for us seniors, there should be a willing and eager acceptance that this is the end.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

It is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Cool It

We note that Karl Boxer, owner-pianist of the Keyboard Lounge, is “just coolin’ it” regarding the brown-bag ruling for entertainment spots. “If I play an E-flat augmented seventh,” he is quoted as saying, “it means for the customers to move away from the tables. I've got two scouts outside. If anybody walks in, we'll say we all live here.” Why bother with this elaborate precaution, Karl? There's really no need for it when the customers already have a signal they ALL understand—a diminished fifth. —The Charlotte News