Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Second Time Around

Anyone not thoroughly confused over the status of Monday’s constitutional referendum probably does not understand what has happened. A number
of questions over the legality of the vote on the student regulations court has brought the Student Council to hold
a second referendum.

Elsewhere on this page, there appears a letter from Mr. Hugh J. Beard Jr., alleging that the procedure used for
authorizing the court was out of order and invalid. We agree with Mr. Beard on one point: The amendment was
very generally worded, so that the voter had little idea, from merely reading the ballot, of what the proposed court
would consist of or how it would function. Paul Marion, who will head the court next year, has explained that
to reproduce on the ballot all of the changes the court will entail would have necessitated reprinting a considerable portion
of the Student Body Constitution, because of a number of minor changes in wording.

Though we believe Monday's vote to be legal, the ballot could have been improved considerably by a short explanation of
the essential details of the makeup of the court, particularly something of how members would be chosen, without necessitating reproducing
all of the cumbersome details of slight word changes. Even if the voter had been fully informed of the nature
of the changes prior to the voting, a point far from certain, he deserved to be confronted with more details
than the mere blank check to the Council to establish a student regulations court.

Step Carefully

One of the foremost charges bandied around in the fraternity controversy which has vexed Davidson with varying amounts of intensity
over the past year has been the allegation that there exists no realistic alternative to fraternities. Such a charge is
obviously true and equally obviously undesirable; yet, before last spring’s eruption little had been done in this direction. True, a
group of Independents had organized Lingle Manor, but its organization and facilities were such that it was not an effective
substitute for fraternities.

Since last spring, there has been talk of establishing eating clubs having virtually the same facilities as do fraternities: the
college agreed last spring to finance two such houses should adequate interest be shown. But the movement fell short and
little has been heard of the idea since. But a small group of Independents and faculty members have been quietly
working all year to try to drum up support. Up to now, they have been hesitant to say anything concrete,
for fear of their pronouncement being premature and ending in a replay of last spring's episode. But the group has
now decided to appeal to the student body for support, in hopes of arriving at a firm basis on which
to begin the new year in the fall. They have the ideas and leadership, but without a substantial number of
students who are willing to support the venture financially, they will not be able to gain college backing for building
a house.

A number of disgruntled students have been quick to criticize the fraternity system without being willing to work for an
alternative solution. Now, they have a ready-made situation which merely needs their interest and financial support. This is the chance
for the Davidson social system to take a giant step forward—we hope it doesn’t stumble.

The New Look Revisited

Several weeks ago, on the occasion of the completion of the evaluation of fraternity life by the Social Life Evaluation
Committee, we called for a “new look” in Davidson's fraternities. One of the main points of the committee’s report was
found in its pointing to the predominant role fraternities play in campus social life. Therefore, the committee said, in exchange
for this virtual hegemony, fraternities must be willing to assume some responsibility for campus social life until a viable substitute
is found.

The fraternities made a significant step in this direction with the adoption of a policy this week of opening afterparties
to Independents. No one argued that the on-campus combo affairs, sponsored by the Social Council, approached being anything like a
substitute for off-campus fraternity parties. The spectacle of less than 20 people attending a function costing several hundred dollars is
ridiculous and impractical. And so long as faculty rules remain as they are, there is little prospect for support for
said Social Council affairs improving. As a result, Independents have been faced with a distinct void in social life during
dance weekends. And at the same time, the Social Council was spending money paid by the entire student body for
entertainment used by only a small percentage of students.

The old situation, due to circumstances beyond the control of the Social Council, satisfied no one. Hopefully, the new policy
of the fraternities will help to alleviate the Independents’ problem considerably and at the same time improve the overall campus
social life, by diverting more money to programs which can be enjoyed by the entire campus. We commend the fraternities
for their forward-looking action and hope that it will open a new chapter in fraternity life here.

JOHN BAILEY
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Managing Editors

CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER
Assistant Sports Editors

YATES FAISON
BOB REID
News Editor

ROBBIE HOOKER
Associate Editors

Managing Editors

Feature Editor
LINDSAY DAVIS

Copy Editor
RICK MILDNER

Sports Editor
TOM COOK

Photographers
BILL OLSON
GEORGE PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Cliff Duke, K. D. Weeks, Charles Elliott, Joel Keys, Bob Schofield, Jim Bailey, Dick Spencer, Dick Richards,
Kent Gladstone, Bruce Weihe, Chuck Green, Carter Fussell, Tim Gailey, Jim Cooley, Heyward Whetsell, Cameron Ferguson, Mark Robinson, Bill Graham,
Brody Brown, Mike Bates, Randy Bridges.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Beard Questions Changes In Constitution

Dear Editor:

Last Monday, April 25, 1966, the Davidson Student Council submitted to the student body in chapel a proposed amendment to
the Student Body Constitution, granting to the Student Council “... authority to make necessary constitutional changes ... in order to
establish a Student Body Regulations Court,” which amendment fundamentally alters the structure of Student Government at Davidson.

Previous to that Chapel, it was assumed that the Student Body at Davidson was sufficiently intelligent and competent to amend
their own Constitution. I shall not discuss the merits of this assumption either in theory or in practice, but rather
I feel it necessary to point out that it was embodied implicitly in Article I—Purpose, and in Article III—Authority, and
explicitly in Article XI, Section 2. Amendments.

In submitting this amendment to the Student Body, the Student Council implicitly denied this assumption. The establishment of a Student
Body Regulations Court by constitutional means would have required the amendment of three sections of the present constitution, and the
addition of perhaps two articles, concerning the Court itself and the Summer Regulations Court. I believe that this is not
so complicated as not to permit its consideration by the Student Body. In any event, I do not see the
reason for this highly irregular action by the Student Council. Any student who would not be able to comprehend the
amendment would probably accept the recommendation of the Student Council. Indeed, if the rejection of the proposal is feared by
the Student Council, this procedure must be considered to be even more questionable.

The amendment adopted Monday, however, is not sufficient to enable the Student Council to amend in any way or for
any purpose the Student Body Constitution. Article XI, Section 2, of the Student Body Constitution provides that “A two-thirds vote
of those present and entitled to vote shall be necessary for an amendment to be adopted.” This section remains unrepealed
and also unaffected by the vote last Monday. I would probably vote for the adoption of the amendments concerning the
establishment of the Regulations Court, but I shall be damned if I do not get a chance to judge for
myself.

HUGH J. BEARD, JR.
Davidson College

Prosser, Marion Explain Vote

Dear Editor:

In reply to any misunderstanding concerning Monday's Student Body vote on the Student Body Regulations Court: the manner in which
it was conducted is perfectly legal and constitutional. The Student Body has the right to empower the Student Council with
the authority to establish a Student Body Regulations Court. The constitutional changes, which the student council approves, however, will not
go into effect until they are approved by a two-thirds vote of the Student Body, as the amendment procedure requires.

Student Council
JULIAN PROSSER, Acting President
PAUL MARION

Patterson Not Factory Expert

Dear Editor:

I am delighted to receive criticism, hostile or friendly, and praise, sincere or insincere, but only when I deserve them.
It has been called to my attention that I am receiving criticism, hostile, for the anonymous observations about theEffects of
the new factory on the social and economic life of Davidson, carried in THE DAVIDSONIAN two weeks ago. I wish
to state that I am not the anonymous professor who made those statements. I am happy to make this announcement,
for now the conversation at bridge, tea, and book club affairs can turn from unimportant subjects like United States involvement
in Vietnam, civil rights in Davidson, et al., to the important matter of speculating on the identity of said professor.
This letter does not even imply criticism of the professor. Anonymity is a marvelous thing and its use must be
defended and protected when such use does not harm any individual, for it frees one from restrictions on freedom of
speech, and, more important, it protects one from anonymous phone calls from the mentally sick, who reside in every community.

E. F. PATTERSON
Associate Professor of Economics

---

By Hill Smoot

Big Hit At Hungry D

A Review

Fred Smoot came home this week. Smoot, star of the latest and most daring venture of the Hungry D Restaurant,
which incidentally now boasts a capital “D” in its name, won the hearts of students and townspeople alike in his
latest appearance at Davidson. Introduced by Union President Peter Parrott as Davidson's “resident comedian,” Smoot immediately established rapport with his
audience with his rendition of “Joe Cool when the Tab Arrives.” Monday’s audience, composed of a surprisingly large number of
faculty and administration and relatively few students, could identify with Joe Cool's reaction of blowing his cool when he looks
at the check—most of the audience had just finished their own meal, Hungry D style.

The inimitable Smoot, standing about 5 feet 4, went into a series of imitations of heroes with a selection wide
enough to please the most demanding audience. From Douglas Fairbanks Sr., complete with silent movies for the oldsters, he went
to a rendition of modern westerns, including a takeoff on The Winning of the West, complete with the Hippy Indians,
who accuse the white man, holed up in his circled wagons, of being “White Finks.” In the same act, Smoot,
using his wide repertoire of voices, portrays “History's Greatest Shootout,” pitting the rough-and-tumble gunfighter Tumbleweed against a sweet-talking dude who
wears pink boots, winks at Tumbleweed, and accuses him of stealing his lambs and chickens.

The old master of the facial expression and sound effect also threw in, just for good measure, a couple of
routines that the Davidson student may recognize but is not likely to tire of—“Paul Revere’s Ride” and the “Roller Coaster.”
Finally, near the end of his second show, he pulled his audience into the act and called for requests. His
hilarious renditions of a toothbrush and birth control pills, the type that work and the type that don’t, brought the
house down, to top off a really professional-type night club in the New Look of the Morrison Room.

---

Davidson Fraternities Imitate One

Editor's Note: In the excerpted letter below, William E. Le Clere, a national official of Chi Psi Fraternity and guest
speaker at Davidson's annual pledge banquet on April 4, comments on Davidson’s Social Life Evaluation Committee Report. Fraternity Maison officer
Tom Covington sent him the report several weeks ago.

“Page four of the report seems to hit at the problem in rather neat terms. There the committee speaks of
the difficulty for the man who does not ‘fit in’ as evidenced by his rejection by the fraternity system. This
is the nub of the matter, and it suggests several shortcomings at Davidson, both within and without the system. To
a great extent, there is only one slot to ‘fit into’ at Davidson.

“It is my impression that the fraternities there tend to imitate, to a marked degree, one another. This points up
one potential way in which some aspects of the problem may be alleviated, if my assumption of chapter imitation is
a correct one. That would be for several chapters at Davidson to consciously begin to establish a distinctive character which
would break out of the ‘old molds.’

“Under the section entitled The Role of Fraternities, I would have wished that the committee could have altered its terminology
concerning the relinquishing of fraternities’ ‘long-standing rights of selection.’ I continue to be persuaded that the immediate device of total
social membership for all who desire it at Davidson is merely a temporary expedient to buy some time for the
college community there to develop some better alternatives. I had hoped that the committee would spell this out. Otherwise, it
will be all too easy, four or five years from now, when the total social opportunity device has had some
tough sailing, to chalk up another ‘fraternity failure’ to this system. This is precisely what happened at Williams, (among other
things).

“The more I look back upon my impressions of fraternities at Davidson, the more convinced I become that one of
the basic problems there is that the college has been entirely too generous in its support of fraternities, through the
building of the fraternity court. This, coupled with such an obvious total dependence upon the fraternities to provide the social
life for the community, makes it rather remarkable, in a way, that the fraternity men are as responsible, and responsive,
as they seem to be today... .”

---

Co-eds Praise D.C. Gentlemen

Dear Editor:

After reading reports of Spring Frolics Weekend in THE DAVIDSONIAN, we have come to the conclusion that Davidson is high
camp. The parties, entertainment, concerts, alcohol consumption, and free flow of coins make Davidson the ideal attraction for a weekend
away.

Since “Virginia Gentlemen” no longer prove to meet the standards set forth by that venerable Mr. Jefferson, we, as students
of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, have found ourselves faced with the dilemma of seeking the true
symbol of southern male hospitality. Realizing that this honor no longer rests with our brother school, we would like to
extend our hospitality to the gentlemen of Davidson College.

Please don't misunderstand our intentions—we love our home state of Virginia, but being the globetrotters that we are, we wish
to extend our horizons beyond Rugby Road and since we are both suitcase colleges, why don’t we match luggage?

JEAN LeMASURIER
MARIE HAYNES
KATHY ROWAN
Mary Washington College

---

Sayonara: Part II

Seniors always know how things should have been done. We have the great gift of hindsight. Before we came in
September of 1962, Davidson was a solid white group of students; the old fraternity system reigned unchallenged so that the
fraternities ran the world outside the classroom. Everything was pretty well homogeneous. Now we are about to leave a school
in these ways drastically changed. Most changes have been for the better—there are a few more important ones we need
to make, all of us at Davidson.

A SMALL BAND unique to Davidson will largely pass with our class. Our own little versions of Berkeley and the
Village—our small band of campus radicals. Most of them rather shallow intellectually and proud of it, seemingly preferring the flamboyant
to the more practical, short on tolerance and long on real concern in spite of themselves—but we owe a lot
to these men, long hair and all. These concerned men brought many needed shocks to our complacency. Their arrogance often
shocked or stung many of us into rebuttal and with that comes the dawn of thought, hopefully. And wasn’t it
disconcerting to conclude that often they were right in spite of themselves! I salute these men. If nothing else (and
there was much more than this) they taught us all tolerance. Davidson needs a circle of campus radicals, complete with
long hair and beards.

OUR SOCIAL STRUCTURE’S MAIN PROBLEM probably is not the problem of exclusion and rejection and whether fraternities should exist or
dominate or be intellectually oriented and whatnot. Our social structure’s chief concern is the integration of our Negro classmates into
our social lives. At the present time I could not honestly say to Charlie Scott or any Negro that he
should choose Davidson over most larger colleges and universities. A Negro student seriously concerned about his education can get a
good one here—or just about anywhere else he goes. What the Negro student cannot get here is the benefit of
what is traditionally called the “college experience.” Most of the students will not keep him completely out of the social
life, but they will be cool to him to the point of water freezing. People will be cool to him.
This is a small school and here is the point where we should begin showing that social integration—even racial mixing—should
hold no fears for those minds which are truly free. For those whose minds are not free, here is the
place to demonstrate that men of different races can be friends and brothers. Mea culpa. I am deeply ashamed of
my own apathy here, my own moral failure.

DAVIDSON IS A GOOD SCHOOL. She has taught me much, though I could have learned more. There is a place
here for any man truly desiring a liberal education. If he is willing to work, he can get an education
as fine as any anywhere. But Davidson is a college capable of improvement. “The best in the South” is really
a second-rate distinction and we all know it. And there are changes on the drawing board designed to make this
liberal-arts college one of the best in the nation: these changes, a dedicated faculty, a little more cash, and one
special ingredient will do the trick. That special ingredient is a student body truly concerned with achieving the best possible
education for its money. We don’t have a student body like that now. Work and intellectual development is like a
coercion process for the average student. This is the central problem, not the lack of funds or antiquated course requirements.
Until genuine student enthusiasm for education arises, all the liberalized Vespers rules and revamped social structure won’t matter worth a
damn. And student complaints will go on for years without ever hitting the central problem—their own unwillingness to get what
somebody else is paying for them to get—a college education, the starting point of a mature mind.

THE NEXT AND LAST COLUMN will try to assess Davidson from what we now have, instead of from what we
need. There is a time and place for everything—and the college experience should be a social one as much as
it should be an intellectual experience.
