The unloading of equipment for Che Aauisonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1966

QUEENS PICKETS PICKET

Queens College girls protested a union picket line blocking a performance of the National Ballet Company Tuesday by forming a
picket line of their own. Local 322 of the International Association of Theatrical Stage Employees and Motion Picture Operators contended
that the performance was a professional exhibition which gave them the right to work the show. Queens girls contended that
the program was only for the benefit of the college as it opened the new Charles A. Dana Auditorium. The
performance was given on a bare platform with rehearsal costumes. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Library To Remain Open On Sunday

The library quietly opened its doors to students all Sunday night in what is anticipated to be a permanent move.
Before the current year, the library closed at 5 and opened again at 8:30 p.m., in deference to the now
defunct vespers service. Student agitation began several weeks ago to keep the building open for student use for the entire
night. Last week the Student Council voted to support a move to keep the library open. Last week's opening came
as a surprise to most students, with no advance notice or publicity from the library staff.

Faculty Adopts Rules Approved By Council

New traffic regulations approved by the Student Council Monday night have been adopted almost fully by the faculty Traffic Committee.
The regulations include a $10 fine for speeding, an envelope payment system for fines, and impounding of a car on
the fifth violation during a semester. Although the faculty did not meet formally, they were polled individually by Jim Terry,
assistant dean of students, and gave their approval. The poll was taken Wednesday about the decisions reached at Monday night's
Student Council meeting. Bill Watson, reporting for a Student Council traffic committee, said that the faculty showed little enthusiasm over
the complicated point system forwarded by the council last year. Instead, the faculty countered with a program similar to the
present fining system with certain favorable proposals. The faculty suggested a graduated ticket scale of a $1 fine for the
first offense, $3 for the second, $5 for the third, $7 for the fourth, and the car would be impounded
with the fifth offense. The scale would be set up on a one-semester basis. Also included in the faculty suggestions
was a proposal that money raised through the fines would be turned over to the Social Council, but this was
not approved by the faculty when the plan was returned. The faculty further proposed an envelope system, giving violators an
opportunity to pay without having to attend traffic court during Friday chapel period. The keeping of court records is to
be handled by students and not the bursar's office as in the past, according to the faculty proposals. Elaborating on
the envelope system, Watson said that offenders can pay for their fines any time during the week by placing the
ticket and a check for the amount specified in a special envelope located near the office of the assistant dean
of students (Room 107). The envelope will then be put in the mail slot of Terry's office. A cancelled check
will serve as the student's receipt.

Anti-Anti-‘Dixie’ Forces Mount Petition Offense

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

“What's wrong with ‘Dixie'?” demands a petition on a door in East Dormitory, and 224 students have agreed with its
answer that ‘It’s a damn good song!” The petition went up in response to Athletic Director Tom Scott’s request. Dr.
Scott and two members of the Faculty Athletic Committee suggested the removal of ‘Dixie’ last week after complaints about the
song’s racial overtones. Dr. Scott said that since the news came out about the song's exclusion, he had received four
letters, one favoring the move and three opposing it. “We did not tell them (the band) not to play it.
There has been no edict,” emphasized Dr. Scott when the dropping of “Dixie” was referred to as a “policy.” “It
was only a suggestion.” “But,” said Dave Hoag, director of the band, “you just don't ignore faculty opinions. For the
time being, I'm just waiting,” he said. A poll by THE DAVIDSONIAN showed 90 percent of those polled to be
against the dropping of “Dixie.” They were asked, “Do you approve of the dropping of ‘Dixie’ by the Wildcat Band
in response to Athletic Department requests?” “Northerners cheer just as much for ‘Dixie’ as Southerners,” said Dan Vinson, a band
member. “I've been up north a lot and I've seen them cheer.” The Charlotte Observer quoted one of the college's
Negro students as saying that ‘Dixie’ didn’t offend him, but that it disturbed some prospective Negro students he took to
a football game with him. On the other side, two Negro students signed the petition for restoring “Dixie.”

Guest Column Makes Davidsonian Debut

With this issue THE DAVIDSONIAN ventures out of the ivory tower into the world of issues. A new editorial-page column,
entitled Quo Vadis, will focus on issues of national and international importance and will be written by interested students and
faculty. Primarily an opinion column, it

Worship Services To Begin

Worship services aimed primarily at the college community have returned to Davidson in a voluntary form. In its meeting yesterday
afternoon, the Religious Life Committee decided to institute a two-month series of experimental worship services, with the first service set
for 7 p.m. Wednesday in Lingle Chapel. At the end of the two-month period, the Religious Life Committee will evaluate
the success of its proposal and decide whether or not to continue it as a means of fulfilling the college’s
religious commitment. According to the Rev. Will Terry, pastor of the College Church, the services will last approximately one half
hour. They will continue on Wednesday nights during October and then, during November, will be held on Sunday nights. Terry
indicated that attempts will be made to incorporate music, the arts, and possibly drama into the services. Local clergy and
faculty will fill the pulpit for most of the services, but “two outside men” are also to speak.

Square Dance Gets New Band

Tomorrow night’s social activities will feature Gurney Thomas and the Country Pals, rather than the Bluegrass Ramblers, as the story
on page three indicates. The change in plans came after the deadline for the original story.

FOREIGNERS VISIT COLLEGES

PRAM Hosts 8 Ecuadorians

Eight visiting Ecuadorian students are using Davidson College as a home base while they visit nearby colleges. Sponsored by the
Project of the Americas, the students will spend their two-month stay in the United States giving speeches and attending discussions
at nearby colleges and just getting to know people. The students arrived from Ecuador in Miami on August 15 and
will return home October 15. Traveling by Volkswagen bus, they first went to Richmond, Va., for a two-week orientation period.
Then in Atlanta they met Georgia Governor Carl Sanders and while visiting Raleigh they talked with various other state officials.
The group attended seminars and banquets and were given tours of many cities and college campuses. Included in their tour
was the nation’s capitol. While in Washington they were given an opportunity to meet with government officials. New York was
the next city visited by the PRAM students; Philadelphia followed. After extensive tours of these cities the group returned to
Davidson on Sept 29. Since that time they have visited several area colleges where they gave speeches, conducted discussions and
became acquainted with other students. Among the colleges visited were Duke University, Sacred Heart College, Belmont Abbey, University of North
Carolina at Greensboro and Queens College.The PRAM students have varied interests and goals. Abel Alban Jaramillo is a 23-year-old student
at the Catholic University of Quito, Ecuador. He received top honors at the Colegio Xavier in Guayaquil, and is particularly
interested in speech, music, and correspondence. The local PRAM coordinator in Quito is Patricio Barriga Puente. Interested in student politics,
he is an economics major at the Catholic University. Twenty-two-year-old Miguel Falconi Puig is a second-year law student at the
law school of the Catholic University. Miguel was president of the Cultural Affairs Commission of the university and is now
editor of the school magazine. Juan Fernando De Labastida, 19 years old, is studying electrical engineering. Through PRAM he hopes
to have the opportunity to let Americans know more about his country and its attitudes toward North Americans. Gaston Guerra
San Lucas is the international coordinator of PRAM in Ecuador. He is 25 and currently a student at the Polytechnic
University of Ecuador. His main interest lies in the development of indigenous industry in his country. Having studied in Minnesota
for a year in 1961, Alicia Parra Garcia is now a journalism major at the Central University of Ecuador. She
believes that youth alone are capable of realizing a creative union between the American countries. Also studying at the Central
University is 22-year-old Berenice Paz. She works as a tourist guide and studies law, but intends to enter social life
rather than politics. Martha Rojas Flor is majoring in philosophy at the Catholic University. In high school, she was awarded
the honor of having the most commendable high school career. Her father is one of Ecuador's best-known contemporary novelists. While
at Davidson, the Ecuadorian students have eaten at the College Union, the Pi Kappa Alpha house, the Sigma Chi house,
and the Alpha Tau Omega house. The boys slept in Richardson basement and the girls in the homes of Mrs.
Walter Johnson and Mrs. Pete Nicholls. A PRAM assembly program is planned for Davidson students Monday. It will give guest
writers a forum for sounding off. Anyone interested in writing for the column should contact Editor-in-Chief Louis Lesesne or Managing
Editor Bob Travers. Sophomore Rick Lonon kicks this column off this week on page two with a plea for more
student involvement in social issues.

Two Activists Attempt To Merge Forces

COLLEGE UNION STAGES WEEKEND DANCES (See Page Three)

NUMBER FOUR

Students To Voice Liberal Position

A new student organization designed to “create a liberal student voice on campus” began collecting names of both students and
professors this week in a prelude to seeking a charter from the Student Council. Leaders of the group, called the
Committee for Student Action (CSA), expect to submit their membership list and statement of purpose to the council sometime this
month, perhaps in time for consideration at Monday's meeting. Council approval of charters is routine, according to President Chuck Matthews,
and the chartering of the CSA is virtually assured.

Memorial Services Conducted

Memorial services were held Wednesday in Lingle Chapel for Roland Eidson. He was fatally injured early Sunday morning when his
car collided with another on Route 21, a few miles south of Davidson. He died minutes after the accident. Eidson
was a junior philosophy major from Ward, S.C. He was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and the Young Republicans
Club. Funeral services were held in Ward Monday afternoon. According to Mecklenburg County Police Patrolman D.G. Lutrick, Eidson was traveling
north in his small foreign car when he ran off the left shoulder of the highway. The car then swerved
back onto the road into the path of an oncoming car driven by a Huntersville man. He said that the
point of impact appeared to be about five feet from the shoulder in the lane of the oncoming car. The
driver of the other car escaped with minor injuries.

Tutors For Athletes Called Normal Policy

The Athletic Department has been providing tutors for athletes with academic difficulties, a practice that is several years old, Athletic
Director Tom Scott told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. The practice came to light when a football player seeking a tutor
in French asked the prospective tutor to see Dave Fagg, assistant football coach. The athlete also told the tutor that
Fagg wanted a record of the time spent in tutoring. When first asked about the matter, Fagg asked “What concern
is it?” thinking that this practice was familiar to Davidson students. He then left for a moment to speak with
John Kilgo, sports information director. After his return, Fagg stated that tutoring paid for by the athletic department is an
established practice. He added that he himself was provided tutorial aid as a student at Davidson. Scott provided particulars concerning
tutorial aid. He said that it has “dropped off in past years” and that “both coaches (football and basketball) have
requested a reduced budget” in this area. Two athletes received such aid last semester, and a total of $145 was
spent.

OPEN END OPENS

Dr. William B. Hight discussed graduate schools Wednesday night at the first Open End in the College Union. See story
on page six. (Staff Photo by Olson)

The CSA, which organizer Dan Mombrea calls “simply a federation of four liberal movements on campus,” will direct its attention
to both campus and national issues. Its four-pronged statement of purpose includes stands on academic freedom, civil rights, poverty, and
militarism, including ROTC. Already five professors—Philip B. Secor, Norman Johnson, Hansford Epes, Max Polley, and Anthony Abbott—have signed the petition,
thereby agreeing to serve on a board of faculty advisers. The CSA is, according to its statement of purpose, “an
organization of Davidson students who believe that real progress will not come to the South unless those who are currently
in college begin to deal with the fundamental contradictions of our society in a way which is genuine and lasting.”
It will be broken down into four autonomous committees, each one dealing with one of the four specific tenets expressed
in the statement of purpose: —"To increase student academic freedom and contribute to an intellectual atmosphere on campus.” According to
Mombrea, this committee would aim for “more dialogue” between student and faculty and perhaps another independent student literary publication. —"To
promote the civil rights movement by group encouragement and individual involvement.” “I doubt that would include demonstration—the time for that
has passed,” Mombrea said. “It would be more in the line of practical application of laws that have already been
passed, such as in voter registration.” —"To attempt to aid the poverty-stricken, emphasizing the socio-educational aspects of this problem.” This
committee, Mombrea said, would be interested in tutoring and furthering people’s desire for a better life. —"To continually protest the
present ROTC graduation requirement and U.S. foreign policy of military intervention in the affairs of other nations, especially as seen
in Viet Nam,” by sponsoring debates and discussions on the topic. He said the CSA itself would serve merely as
a “clearing house” for its four independent committees. “To join, you only have to agree with one specific group.” In
the ROTC protest, Mombrea promised “weekly demonstrations. We plan to resurrect the Peon army.” Mombrea has been the moving force
in this fall’s organizing, although the idea was first conceived and set in motion last spring by Jack Woodall, a
junior now studying in Europe. Woodall and 13 others participated in an anti-Viet Nam war march in Washington, D.C., last
spring, and, according to Mombrea, later held a few meetings to determine “a rough idea of our goals.” Over the
summer, Mombrea drafted the statement of purpose, and the petition to the Student Council was first circulated on campus Monday.
