TEACHING SECONDARY

‘Tutee’s’ Self-Image Important To STEP

STEP — four letters representing the newest organization on the Davidson campus, the Student Tutorial Education Project. The Project was
organized only a month ago as the brainchild of three Davidson students — Marvin Sparrow, Mike Norris, and Jordie Lang
— who spent last summer working in culturally deprived communities.

The central program of STEP has thus far been the Elementary Tutorial Program, working with fourth, fifth, and sixth-grade students
in Cornelius and Davidson Schools. Over 50 Davidson students are now involved in tutorial work on an individual basis, with
one tutor to one “tutee” (a word which has been widely spread over the Davidson campus by STEP members). The
individual tutor concept has been adopted by the group as the most effective means of accomplishing its primary objective: “to
improve the tutee’s self-image.”

Sparrow emphasized the importance of this primary objective. “It is not the tutor’s main job to teach. We are not
trained to do this, and our work in this area is designed only to supplement the teaching done in the
classroom. It is much more important that we encourage each tutee to build a better personal image of himself.”

Lang pointed out that much of the problem in this area had been caused by the deprived environment of the
child. “The parents often take no interest whatsoever in the child’s school work, and sometimes do little to encourage his
interest in studies."

Lang worked last summer with Self-Help Housing, Inc., a low-income housing project in a rural section of Southeastern Pennsylvania, founded
by the Office of Economic Opportunity, and therefore is experienced with this type of situation. Norris and Sparrow worked in
similar areas with Youth Educational Services, Sparrow in Greensboro and Norris in Charlotte.

At present, 25 students from Davidson School and 25 from Cornelius School are being tutored under the STEP program. This
group contains approximately one-third white children. The tutees were selected on the basis of a reading achievement test given in
schools, and all are participating in the program voluntarily.

The tutors were given two hours of initial preparation, with an orientation session conducted by the group's three directors and
a discussion with a reading specialist on remedial reading techniques. The orientation included background on the founding of STEP, the
goals of the tutorial program, and preparation for general problems that might be encountered by tutors.

The importance of first establishing a rapport with the tutee was emphasized, and Lang noted that various methods have been
used to accomplish this task, from playing football with the child to reading comic books in the Hub with him.
Tutors were also advised to use imagination and creativity in attempting to help tutees with academic weaknesses. Norris pointed out
that this tutoring was strictly informal, and he suggested that a more formal atmosphere, simulating the classroom, would be much
less effective.

In addition to this advance preparation, the group has a program of continuing in-service training sessions — termed “feedback” by
Norris — which meets regularly to assist tutors with individual problems. The tutors are organized into six groups for this
purpose, and each group discusses individual problems in seminar fashion. The leaders of the six groups are Cary Hewitt, John
Sartorius, Bill Andrews, Furman Wallace, Ned Kelly, and Stew Brown.

One tutor noted the “challenge” that the program offered to the tutor. “It is frustrating, but at the same time
rewarding. You want to help him so badly, but you realize that you aren't really going to be able to
help him much with his school work, or make him become interested in it.” He observed that he was not
equipped to teach, but that he could offer his child the opportunity to practice, and, perhaps more important, he could
offer him encouragement.

The two have played football together, are attending the play this weekend, and will also travel with the entire group
of tutors and tutees to see the circus in Charlotte on Sunday. This particular tutor has been using the “Peanuts”
cartoon books to give his student the opportunity to practice his reading. He noted some evidence of success. “When I
first started out, I was just so discouraged. Hewas so shy, he wouldn't even look at me when he talked.
But he’s come out some. He’s much more outgoing, at least with me.” Tutors devote from three to six hours
a week to their tutees. Generally, tutors have been left on their own with this program. They have been left
to arrange their meeting times and places, and to devise their own techniques for teaching. One tutor has had his
tutee write letters to him to give him practice at writing. Another has taught his tutee to use a camera;
and with the pictures the two have taken, the tutee will design some Christmas cards to send this year. Various
tutees have been seen on campus for the last three weeks, in the library, learning to use the card catalogue,
at soccer games or touring Chambers.

The interest evidenced by the student body has been unusually high, and the general feeling among the student body seems
to be that STEP is one of the most worthwhile organizations to be formed on the Davidson campus in recent
years. The current program is an outgrowth of last year's YMCA Tutorial program. Sparrow and Norris were appointed last spring
to chair the YMCA Tutorial Committee this year, and after working with similar projects this summer, they returned to Davidson
with the idea for STEP. They were soon joined by Lang, whose interest had also been aroused in working with
such a program by summer work. The three currently are serving as the directors of STEP. They have been assisted
with planning by the Charlotte YES workers; by Chris Sanford, a Project Opportunity worker in Charlotte; and by the principal
of the Cornelius School.

While the Elementary Tutorial Program has been the central activity of the group thus far, the enthusiastic STEP directors are
actively seeking to expand the project's program to include numerous other endeavors. Lang and Leslie Brown have originated a Pre-College
Guidance Program, which is almost ready to begin operation under the leadership of Ken Autrey. Under this program, Davidson students
would seek to provide information on post-graduate college and vocational education, with emphasis on the availability of financial aid. Lang
pointed out that many of the students about whom the group was concerned had never even considered higher education due
to the lack of financial resources in their families. The Guidance Program will be two-fold, with both group sessions to
make general information available to students and individual sessions to offer more specific help to each child.

While the program is designed mainly to offer information and encouragement to individuals, specialized tutorial help to offer gifted students
an opportunity for advanced or accelerated study in certain areas may also be incorporated into its structure. The counseling effort
has received the enthusiastic endorsement of the guidance counselor at North Mecklenburg High School, who serves over 1,500 pupils alone.
Also included in plans for the near future is assistance to the North Presbyterian Church in Davidson with the Teen
Canteens it operates for the Negro sector of the Davidson community. STEP is working closely with Negro leaders in planning
such projects. Another plan for the near future calls for STEP to sponsor several field trips for the children involved
in its tutorial program, “to build in them an awareness of the world around them,” and to expose them to
other persons who have succeeded in overcoming backgrounds which were culturally deprived.

Reaction to the STEP program among the deprived communities involved has generally been favorable. Mrs. Walter Johnson of Davidson, a
librarian in the Mecklenburg school system, noted that “students seem to be taking advantage of the opportunity,” and that “comments
from parents indicate that it is being received quite well.” “It has been helpful,” she concluded. One parent, however, has
been unhappy with the results of the program, complaining that her child had begun to act “spoiled” since becoming involved
in the program. Other parents have been receptive. No parents have withdrawn their children from the program after they had
been enrolled.
