A STRANGE SEASON

Tomorrow afternoon about 4:15 while most of you are on your way to see the taped instant replays and the stop-action plays plus maybe a few straight plays for just one time, fall sports at Davidson will quietly come to a grinding halt. Not that it is anything big. Most people are more concerned with what unofficially begins at 7 tomorrow night in that big building at the end of the track called the Gym. Look to your left and see what we devoted to basketball this week and then look to the right of this and see what the stories say about the fall sports.

Our football team, victims of playing the best team we have faced this year every week, has a tough way to go to keep above the coveted .500 mark. The soccer team, beset by more problems than Harry Fogleman has tennis racquets, is trying to finish strong in the tournament down on their field, better known as the ROTC drill field. Coach Heath Whittle drools at any mention of his cross-country prospects for the next several years because of the amazing record of his fledgling harriers, but has to go call the roll for PE, even on Sunday, at the queries about this season.

It has been a strange season. It started so good back in September, but was tarnished by that journey to Charlotte where the Filthy Forty beat the Dirty Thirty. Then football vanished for so long that it seemed we might be listening to those hurting announcers on WBT-FM forever between Rush Wilson commercials. (Do you think they thought we would be listening?) But the Alumni Office got on the stick and got the football team booked to come home to see the alumni and appear as part of the big weekend. They even brought home that desire for fresh meat, Bulldog meat, that is. And then off again. “He is on the 30, the five, he scored,” drones the radio and interest wanes again. A win means new records, a loss means disappointment.

Football at Davidson has improved despite a record to the contrary. The football we play now is exciting, at least when we are exposed to it in person. Football may never reach the stature of basketball, but with Homer Smith continuing to build and improve the program, football is going in the right direction. With a few improvements and breaks, the other fall sports can do likewise. The hope for success in all three fall sports might not be such a dream after all.

Interest is really building for the varsity-freshman basketball scrimmage tomorrow night at 7. The main kindler of the flame of enthusiasm has been the continuing reports that the frosh have been beating the Wildcats in closed scrimmage rather frequently. Considering the opposition we are meeting out here this year, this will probably be the best game on campus this season.

TOO FEW HOURS

EDITOR

The Davidsonian
November 18, 1966
Page Five

’Cats Close Season Against Wittenburg

This Saturday a game of the season. Game time is 2 p.m. Wittenburg has compiled a 7-1 record this season with their only loss being a 14-7 decision to Akron when they gave up touchdowns on a pass interception and on a fumble. Wittenburg is coached by Bill Edwards, who is the only man to receive the Small College Coach of the Year award twice in succession (1962, 1963). He has coached 11 consecutive winning seasons, led his team to six Ohio

(Staff Photo by Weems)

Pony Defenders Corral Mike Kelly (80)

Hampton Passes ‘Kittens To Final Victory, 49-32

By CHARLIE ELLIOTT
Sports Writer

As far as the Furman freshman football team was concerned, last Friday was Garth Hampton Day for the Davidson Wildkittens. The frosh quarterback had the best day of his college career in a 49-32 shellacking of the Purple Ponies. The 6-1, 180-pound quarterback scored touchdowns on runs of one, seven and 12 yards and two touchdown passes, a 51-yarder to Mike Kelly and an 18-yarder to George Hannen. Hampton also completed 18 of 23 passes for 240 yards. Two of his passes were dropped. He also rushed for 74 yards giving him 314 yards total offense for the day.

Coach Bobby Brown said, “We came from behind two times in the first half. After that, we just kept building. The boys were determined to win."

Other Wildkitten tallies came on a one-yard blast by fullback John Zaharov and a 30-yard pass interception return by Ken Crews. The interception came with 34 seconds left in the game. Zaharov was the workhorse of the ‘Kitten backfield, carrying 27 times for 82 yards, a three-yard average. Hannen brought the crowd to its feet twice with a tight-rope act along the sideline as he out-faked and outran the Furman defenders.

Brown said he was pleased with the season in general. The frosh had a 2-3 record with a schedule which included losses to Duke, N. C. State and Gardner Webb and wins over Carolina Military Academy as well as Furman. He said, “The boys worked as a team. They did not learn plays to be run against the varsity. Rather, they worked on an offense and defense all their own, one which was very much like the one the varsity uses. We think this will pay off in the future. We'll know for sure after spring practice."

Brown pointed out, “The backs are working together, helping each other out by making suggestions. The quarterbacks and ends are beginning to ad lib. They have gained confidence in themselves and in each other.”

The Wildkittens ended the day with 27 first downs and 433 yards total offense. They only had to

Fiddner Ruled Ineligible

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson’s on-again-off-again soccer team must compete in the Southern Conference Tournament without the services of halfback Mac Fiddner. The senior letterman from Kannapolis was ruled ineligible for further competition by conference commissioner Lloyd Jordan last week for failing to earn enough academic hours last year.

“I didn’t realize I was ineligible,” said Fiddner, who passed 15 credit hours in the regular session last year. “I didn’t know the rule.” Conference regulations state that a player must pass at least 24 semester hours during the year to be eligible for further competition.

“Last week the conference commissioner sent the Athletic Department a note saying that on an eligibility form that the college submits, the number of hours earned by one of the players was listed as 15,” soccer coach Harry Fogleman said. “The commissioner requested we verify the number of hours.”

“As soon as the registrar's office verified that number there was no question that Fiddner was ineligible.”

Legally, Davidson could be re-

MAC FIDDER
“I Didn’t Know ...”

one earlier this year. “We've lost so many players this year one more won't hurt,” Fogleman said. Fiddner missed only one game, an 8-0 shellack-

Harriers Falter In Season Finale

Davidson ended its cross-country season on a sad note Monday at Greenville, S. C., in the Southern Conference meet. William and Mary topped the field as East Carolina, VMI, West Virginia, The Citadel, Furman and Richmond also finished ahead of the Davidson harriers.

“We were without the services of our number two man, Randy Phillips, who was unable to make the trip,” stated Coach Heath Whittle. “We could have finished as high as fifth had he participated,” he continued. Barry St. Clair, the number one man for Davidson, finished 19th in the field. The defeat leaves Davidson, who placed sixth in the state meet in RaConference championships, and has achieved the ranking of the nation’s best small college football team in 1962 and 1964 while compiling a 76-15-4 record in his 11 years as Wittenburg's head coach. This week the Tigers are ranked eighth in the nation. Standout offensive players for Wittenburg are quarterback Gene Laughman, fullback Octavian Pechar, and end Rod Miller. Laughman is an accurate passer and Pechar a powerful runner while Miller needs only three pass receptions to break the conference record of 45. Equally noteworthy is captain Larry Stockert who leads the defensive unit. In eight games this season Wittenburg’s defense has given up only 32 points. When asked to comment on Wittenburg, Coach Homer Smith said, “They are a great team. Saturday's game will provide a great test for our football team.” Smith emphasized, “We will find out how good we are this Saturday. The season has been oriented toward this game.” He also said, “Walter Greene will play both ways. Since our defense has not been what it should be, we will do something to correct it.”

Delts Grapple To Another Win

The Phi Delts stormed to their 11th straight IMAC wrestling championship in the finals of the wrestling tournament Thursday night. The Delts had 160 points, 47 more than their nearest competition. Three of the four Delt winners, Al Jasper, Ron Hunt, and Joe Peel, were also winners last year. Bay King of Kappa Sigma was also a repeating winner. Coach Charlie Parker, Gene Shepherd, wrestling manager, the varsity wrestling team, and the IMAC collaborated in the organization of the tournament after several problems arose last year. Individual upperclass and frosh winners were:

123 POUND CLASS: Bog Dugger (Phi Gam), Bob Stubbs (E11);
130 POUND CLASS: Jim McMillan (Phi Gam), Alan Pusey (W);
137 POUND CLASS: Scott Sanford (Beta), Pal Bray (CI);
145 POUND CLASS: Hobbs Allen (ATO), Bill Shutt (C-I1);
152 POUND CLASS: Jasper (Phi Delt), Bill Horton (C-I);
160 POUND CLASS: Brooks Sheldon (Phi Delt), David Troxler (E11);
167 POUND CLASS: King (Kappa Sig), Pierce Irby (E1);
177 POUND CLASS: Hunt (Phi Delt), Jerry Withrow (W);
191 POUND CLASS: Ernie Doe (Kappa Sig);
HEAVYWEIGHT: Peel (Phi Delt).

Behind the champion Delts, the Phi Gams, Kappa Sigs, and Betas paced the field.

We admire your spirit, but you just don't fit

By DALE DURHAM Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson Wildcats host Wittenburg in their final game of the season. This game will be the first meeting between the two schools. The strong Wofford Terriers charged from behind in a razzle-dazzle offensive display to crush Davidson last Saturday, 40-28. “Wofford was the biggest, strongest team that we've played this year,” said Coach Homer Smith. “They were able to control the offensive and defensive line on us. They were also able to move the ball inside on us. They were out to win and they certainly weren't going to beat themselves,” commented Smith. The game Saturday was the first game at home for Wofford after five consecutive road games. The Terriers used the smashing inside running of Larry Phelps and the passing of Warren Whittaker to beat the ‘Cats. The first half saw both teams move almost at will. Davidson scored the first time it had the ball with Johnny Walker getting the TD on a one-yard plunge. The Terriers forged ahead 21-7 late in the first quarter on a Whittaker to Infinger pass that covered 17 yards. The ‘Cats fought back to make the score 21-14 on a Poole to Gildewell pass. Whittaker, however, kept the Wofford offensive machine going by scoring on a ten-yard run to make the score 27-14 at the half. The loss evened the Wildcats’ record at four wins and four losses. The ‘Cats must now beat Wittenberg in their last game to have a winning season. Several Wildcats played an outstanding game, Smith said. “Gary Waldon played probably his finest game ever,” said Smith. “Also, Renn Gruber, Tommy Dews, Walter Greene, and Lew Homer played a tremendous game.” The defense worked for the third quarter. Quarterback Jimmy Poole cranked up the Davidson offensive team, and the ‘Cats got two scores to grab a quick lead, 28-27. Sparked by Whittaker and Phelps, the Terriers began their drive for what proved to be the winning touchdown. The Terriers gouged huge chunks of yardage out of the middle of the Davidson line. Phelps scored the go-ahead TD on a 16-yard run to make the score 33-28.

Sailors Sink To Second

Davidson sailed to a second-place finish behind the College of Charleston in an invitational regatta at Charleston Nov. 5. The College of Charleston, hosting its first South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association regatta, easily captured first place in their home waters off James Island. Battling for second were teams from Davidson and the University of South Carolina, with the Keydets from The Citadel rounding out the four-school regatta field. Moderate winds of 10 to 15 miles per hour provided excellent conditions for all eight races. The tidal waters of the Charleston Harbor caused some interesting tactical problems for the Davidson sailors who are admittedly more at home in the land-locked, tideless waters of Lake Norman. Sailing for Davidson were skippers Tom Kirtley and Chip Bellamy, and crews Yates Fletcher and Bob King. In the tough A Division, Kirtley sailed to a 2-3-4-2 series, while in B Division, Bellamy scored finishes of 2-1-2-4. The Wildcat sailors are now preparing for their final regatta of the Fall racing series. On Dec. 3 the sailing team will again travel to Charleston for the team racing championships of the SAISA.

WINTER JACKETS for Campus and Ski

Large selections of heavyweights and lightweights. Come select yours.

Clothing For the Pace Setting Traditionalist

John Mpc Son
Our 54th Year
Mooresville