) Point After} | he kk WILDCAT NOTES: The announcement earlier in the |' i week that fullback Mike Thornton
would be ready for action against East Carolina turned out to be a bit premature. Trainer Tom Couch said yesterday
Thornton will |: not play in tomorrow’s game. The reason: Coach Homer |; Smith said Thornton “tripped over a blade
of grass.” He will probably see action later this year. ‘ Lewis Homer has not regained enough speed to warrant
his return to the lineup, Smith said, which spikes the rumors that Homer (the player) had made a miraculous recovery
from his Furman injury. : s For you die-hard Wildcat fans, the ECC game will be broadcast on WBT-FM with
game time at 1:45 p.m. |. Unfortunately, a few sports events noted for their colorful presentation will be thrusting through
the air waves |- at the same time. i, ¢ e s Lefty’s instant replay closed circuit television system |
: got its first test this afternoon at the freshman football game. The football department thinks it will help the
defense more than the offense in studying how a gap was opened in the line or in studying pass patterns.
_ The gadget is extremely portable and surprisingly uncomplicated. It consists of a camera about the size of a regular
table movie camera, a tape recorder slightly bigger than a regular version, a small television camera that can pick up
regular channels as well as the local circuit and a microphone which will not play a big role except in
possibly taping parts of Homer's television show. s s * Harry Fogleman could sit on his laurels after winning the
Southern Conference tennis championship in a breeze last year, but fall tennis practice has taken the team up to a
point where it can get ready in time for another strong schedule which will include Northwestern for the first time,
plus possibly Ohio State or Dartmouth. ‘The need for hard work in tennis was made more critical by the loss
of Steve Faulk to a full scholarship at LSU. Without Faulk the road to another conference crown will resemble a
path of thorns instead of a bed of roses. The conference will be a lot tougher, especially George Washington, The
Citadel and Furman. - Fogleman says seven men have made the squad for the coming season. Esmond Phelps and Pinky
Hatcher are battling for the number one spot. Seniors Peter Parrott and Georgie Mueller and juniors Frank Bass, Dan Hearon
and Dave Jennings are the others. Vying for the remaining spots on the squad are sophomores Bruce Weidner, Al Varner
and Judson McKellar. Freshman coach Frank Spence has named four candidates to his squad of seven. Fledging fuzzballers include Randy
Jones, Bill Brown, Bob Johnson and Bill Johnson. * s e Passed from the advertising moguls on Fifth Avenue: WANTED:
One closed circuit television station manager for small basketball network. Must be conscientious, hard-working, clean liver. Student status necessary. Young
naive freshman given first priority. Satisfaction its own reward. Apply Gym Productions, Inc. Roundbell Office, Davidson College. —_—— rrr ae
) ca a e a 1 oo ie GETTING READY Although plagued by inclement weather, fall baseball practice has gone
through the work of establishing the basics of Coach Tom Stevens’ system so as not to have to spend the
time next spring. The acquisition of the new field and some promising varsity newcomers have provided a big plus factor.
Practice continues through next Friday with an intersquad game to conclude the fall season. Here Stevens hits a grounder to
Joe Rice. (Staff Photo by Olson) eee — « ——— better v. we {; London, Conn. iy ‘ a 1
‘jing trophy for the past i| years, i|strong Academy team that re- :| gained the cup it had won every
it year from 1953 to 1963. :/ encountered, which the MOATS, PHILLIPS AND ST. CLAIR halftime advantage. The Wildcats put
it out of third period. Center forward Bobby Lanier and wing Greg Simmons each Coach Harry Fogleman said.,. “We showed
a lot of improvement. Furman game paid off. We did on shots. kicking 32 times.” The booters played without the
services of inside John Flowers, who missed the game with CHARLIE CAMERON COILS But Furman Unwound ‘Cats 3-1 Booters Bow
To Furman But Rebound Past Erskine __ After an opening loss to Furman, the Davidson soccer team evened its record
with a 4-1 victory over Erskine Wednesday at Due West, S. C. an injury. “Joe Norton, Willie Edmonds and Rob
Powell did an adequate job at fullback, a position that is weak this year,” said Fogleman. period gave the Wildcats
a 3-1 Both fullbacks from last year's team graduated. Alternating with starter John reach with a fourth tally in the
Barnhardt was sophomore goalie Harry Hamil who made ten saves. The Foglemen dropped their scored once, while inside Alec season's
opener to Furman's Neisler accounted for two goals. Purple Paladins Saturday by a 3-1 score. Center forward Jim Marrow scored
the ‘Cats’ only ment. Some offensive and defensive adjustments after the quarter lead. Furman then came back to tie it
up in the same period and then proceeded to put the game away with scores in the third and final
quarters. ‘We played a good game,” National Race Sinks Sailors The Davidson Sailors fell in their first national competition Saturday,
finishing 13th out of 15 schools competing in the Danmark Trophy Regatta. The competition took place on the Thames River
at the U. S. Coast Guard Academy campus in New The teams competing included the Coast Guard, MIT, Harvard, Tufts,
Rhode Island, Princeton, Brown, Yale, Dartmouth, Boston, Williams, Cornell, Davidson, Trinity and Wayne State. MIT, which had held the rotating
trophy for the past two years, could not hold off a strong Academy team that regained the cup it had
won every year from 1953 to 1963. The failure was not entirely unexpected for the young Wild- cats, since the
races were encountered, which the such misfortune can spell disaster. Sailing for the Davidson team in A Division were Chip
Robertson, skipper, and Chip Bellamy, crew. The B Division tan was Ben Reeves and Bob Murphy. The Wildcats, despite their
poor final standing, were able to claim good starts, especially in A Division, and were in contention for first place
in at least three races. The sailors are looking for a comeback against South Carolina in team racing this Saturday
at the Davidson Lake Campus. Five races will be sailed, with three teams from each school in each. The winner
will be the first school winning three races, cat team, since the races were being sailed in International 12 dinghys,
an entirely different boat fromDavidson's Jets, due to the heavy air conditions, found it difficult. Also, the competition was the
best, including such notables as the New England dinghy champion. A factor that cost Davidson several places in the regatta
was three disqualifications late in the series when the Wildcat boat was well up in the fleet. In a regatta
such as this with many teams only a few points apart,

Trio Warms Up For The Citadel After Wake Defeat

Thinclads Fall To Deacons

The Davidson thinclads ventured into the Demon Deacon's den Wednesday afternoon and suffered an 18-38 setback at the hands of
the Wake Forest harriers. The Wildcats were paced by team captain Barry St. Clair, who placed third, Randy Phillips, and
Jim Wall. John Hodson, Grange Ancarrow, and Jim Hope finished high for Wake Forest. Coach Heath Whittle described the two-mile
race as an “encouraging and very nice job in our first showing.” In elaborating on this theme, Whittle pointed out
that Wake Forest has already triumphed over runners from Duke and North Carolina State.

The outstanding freshman runners salvaged something from the afternoon, crushing the Deaclets, 18-41. Newly-elected captain John Puckett and Dan Herd
tied for first with a more than respectable time, followed closely by James Puckett and Alan Pusey. The Wildcats took
on an unknown quantity from the Citadel here at 4 p.m. today. Despite a couple of fine Bulldog runners, Whittle
looks forward to the season's first victory. Tomorrow at 11 a.m. the freshman team meets Hargrave Military Academy on the
same course.

ON SQUAD

Saturday, Oct. 15, marks the first day of official practice for Davidson’s defending Southern Conference basketball champions. The Wildcats, led
by tri-captains Rod Knowles, Tom Youngdale, and Dave Moser, add nine new faces to the varsity scene to back up
juniors Knowles and Youngdale. Scott Sinnock, who transferred to Ball State last semester, is back with the team along with
junior Bob Pickens. In addition, seven sophomores are up from last year's freshman team which compiled a 14-4 record. Along
with Moser, there are Mike O'Neil, Wayne Huckel, Mike Spann, Rocky Crosswhite, Tony Orsbon, and Mike Dickens, a transfer from
Brevard.

An extremely talented group of freshmen have been rounded up to stock the varsity in future years. Doug Cook, Jerry
Kroll, Fox DeMoissey, Mike Maloy, and Jan Postma promise to shine for the ‘Kittens. The annual freshman-varsity basketball game is
slated for Nov. 19. The 1966-67 schedule will feature trips to the University of Michigan, Tulane, the University of Virginia,
and Marquette. The ‘Cats will play eight regular season games in the Charlotte Coliseum plus the Charlotte Invitational Tournament during
the Christmas holidays.

Coach Fogleman said, “although we only shot 19 times, Furman is a much improved ball team. They look like they
could lead the conference.” Furman is the only conference competition for the booters until the Southern Conference tournament in November.
Coach Fogleman emphasized the good, clean brand of ball the team played, incurring no penalty shots in either game. Pointing
for their second win in a row, the booters traveled to Laurinburg to meet St. Andrews this afternoon.

The eight Charlotte opponents are Wake Forest, Pitt, Princeton, George Washington, West Virginia, Virginia Tech, St. Joseph’s, and William and
Mary. Furman, Richmond, VMI, and The Citadel will try to break the ‘Cat win streak in Johnston Gym this year.

Roundball Starts Oct. 15

The Southern Conference tournament in Charlotte is scheduled for March 2-4.

Stasavich Eyes Game Saturday

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

“We plan on giving Davidson a pretty good game Saturday.” East Carolina Head Coach Clarence Stasavich told THE DAVIDSONIAN in
a telephone interview this week. “The team has looked only fair in the last couple of weeks,” he said, “but
Saturday is our Homecoming and the boys probably want to play a fierce game. They generally do at Homecoming.” Stasavich,
NAIA Coach-of-the-Year in 1959 and member of the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame, said the Pirates’ blocking has been
“not as sharp as it should be,” but he feels his team will be ready for Davidson.

“I have a lot of respect for Davidson,” Stasavich said. “They have some real fine ball players. Davidson has a
fine offense which is reflected in the fact they are the number one offense team in the conference.” ECC’s offense
may provide a few new wrinkles for the ‘Cats, since the Pirates are one of the few major college teams
that still use the single wing. “I like the single wing,” Stasavich said, “because over a period of 12 years
we've averaged 24 or 25 points a game with it. But this season things haven't been going quite that well.”

Stasavich named halfback Billy Bailey his leading ground gainer. The 195-pound senior from Tarboro has averaged 53.5 yards a carry
this season, Stasavich said. “We'll have the biggest crowd of the season here Saturday,” Stasavich said. “Davidson has a good
following down here, and there will be a lot of folks here for Homecoming. This is a conference where the
teams are all pretty even. Anybody can win. It should be a real fine ball game.”

CONFERENCE STANDINGS

Richmond
George Washington
West Virginia
The Citadel
East Carolina
William & Mary
DAVIDSON
VMI

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

115-inch wheelbase. Heavy-duty springs, shock absorbers, sway bars, front and rear. High-performance axle. Dual exhausts. Beefed-up wheels. Available also, if
you wish—wide oval tires, Rocket Rally Pac, UHV ignition, superstock wheels, front disc brakes and the like. Try one and
you'll agree; 1967 Olds 4-4-2 is the sweetest, neatest, completest anti-boredom bundle on rubber! Drive safely. Olds thinks of your
safety, too, with the GM-developed energy-absorbing steering column that can compress on severe impact up to 8½ inches.
