CULTURE IS BORN IN LOCAL CAFE (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1966

DEAN JOHNSTON SHOWS GREEN THUMB (See Page Six)

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Matthews Wins
(Staff Photo by Thel)

THURMOND TALKS TO TV MAN
Coffee Hour Featured Sharp Questions
S. C. Senator Tries Back-Home Politics
By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Editor

He spoke long and hard trying to make up for being late. He said what he believed, but it seemed he geared it to the folks back home he was politicking, and not to a college audience. Strom Thurmond, U. S. Senator from South Carolina, visited the Davidson campus Tuesday and spoke during chapel. He was delayed by weather and was some 10 minutes late. Speaking on “Freedom,” the balding, but vigorous ex-general, reopened his attack on the Democratic administration in Washington. He charged that “freedom is being destroyed by the federal government.” He divided his talk into two definite parts, one dealing with domestic and one with foreign policy. The Constitutional Convention of 1787, he said, “set up a framework of government with the greatest measure of freedom.”

DELEGATED POWER
Thurmond was especially upset by the trend of government to enter realms of society in which no power was delegated to it. “No extraordinary powers were delegated to one man or to one organization.” He praised the system of checks and balances and the separation of powers in the federal system. “The government,” he continued, “has entered areas where they have no right to be, such as education and arts and humanities.” However, this is not his major concern, as he said later in conversation with students. Rather, foreign policy is his pet, and sometimes his “pet peeve.” He said that he stands behind the President in his present policy in Viet Nam. Thurmond feels a definite obligation to peace and freedom in the world. “Do not take freedom for granted. You will lose it if you do,” he warned.

COMMUNIST THREAT
Communism is the present element of tyranny and opponent of freedom in the world today, as Hitler's Germany was a generation ago. “Thirty-six per cent of the world’s population and one-third of the land mass is now behind the Iron Curtain,” he said in proving his point. Growing more and more vehement, he lashed out at those who advocate abandoning Viet Nam to the Communists. “We can't let the people down.” As a buzz began to grow in the audience, Thurmond launched a barrage of facts indicating the growth of Communism in the last 20 years. Taking each country at a time, he showed that if the U. S. left Viet Nam, the entire subcontinent of Southeast Asia would be overrun by Communism.

CHINA WAR
“If you are to win,” he continued, “you must take risks.” To worry about the Chinese entering the war is foolish now, he said, because they have been supplying and directing it for several years. “Therefore, we must take the risk, supply the power and crush the enemy.” Thurmond was not upset by the often sharp questions he encountered at the coffee, but was happy to hear them. “For a while,” he later remarked, “I was ready to believe that the young people did not have any interest in their nation’s affairs, but I have found that they do.” Jokingly, he added, “Now, if they only believed like me, the Republican Party would be in fine shape.” The senator could not stay long on campus, and had to leave too soon after lunch at the SAE house. He left behind many of his beliefs, which, while not always compatible with the students’, at least left an impression and ideas to think about.

Close Race For Student Body President
Students Elect Miller, Prosser, Earnhardt

Chuck Matthews, a junior political science major from Winston-Salem, defeated John Fagg in Wednesday’s runoff election for student body president. Matthews polled 357 votes to Fagg’s 307. Julian Prosser was elected first vice-president with 382 votes and Tom Earnhardt was named second vice president with 361 ballots over Ben Cannon, who carried 298 votes in the Wednesday runoff balloting. Bayard Miller edged Al Varner for secretary-treasurer in one of the tightest runoffs in recent years. Miller took 308 ballots to Varner’s 304. The election runoffs Wednesday brought a normal turnout of almost two-thirds of the student body. Last year 641 voted in the presidential election as compared to 662 this year. John Gresham and Paul Marion were eliminated from the balloting as Matthews captured 187 votes, Fagg 182, Marion 178, and Gresham 111. Also elected this week were Court. They are Paul Curlee, Mac Otts, and John Sartorius—Class of '67; Cecil Clifton, Mike Mooty, and Sam Hatcher—Class of '68; and Tom Baker and Bill Williams—Class of ‘69. Matthews has returned to the American University in Washington where he is studying this semester. He will return to the Davidson campus April 4 for the swearing in of student body officers and remain here until April 15.

Matthews told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he should have no trouble in completing his studies in Washington and that he is anticipating no problems in his absence this spring. The president-elect stressed the academic aspect of Davidson life as the contest got under way in Monday’s chapel when the four candidates made their campaign speeches. Matthews called for student evaluation of their courses under the guidelines established by the National Student Association and inaugurated at Davidson last semester by a special Student Council committee under Matthews' leadership. He also proposed the adoption of the “Princeton Plan” under which a student could take a course on a “pass or fail” basis to broaden his interests without threatening his grade average. Fagg condemned the apathetic attitude of Davidson students. Davidson's existing institutions were capable of increasing the school’s excellence if the students would only get interested in them, he said. An outside study of Davidson's social situation was proposed by Gresham in his speech as the most influential way of improving student life. Marion pointed to the need for an effective way of implementing the generally admitted reforms of Davidson's social, religious, and academic life, as he campaigned for a program of intensive student action on each proposal as attention focused on it during the year. An open Presidential Forum that night found few interested listeners as the candidates expanded upon their platforms and fielded queries from non-subsidized athletics questioners orations from those doubting the right of the Student Council to take an active part in the fraternity discussion. Much of the attention was centered on the means of accomplishing the candidates’ proposals, the specific qualifications of the candidates and Matthews’ eligibility because of

(Staff Photo by Thel)
BUT WHERE ARE THE PEOPLE? Principals In Monday's Forum Are, (L-R) John Fagg, Johnny Gresham, Paul Marion, and Chuck Matthews. Bill Council, Chapels Restricted For May

No chapels have been scheduled after May 2 because of the renovation of the auditorium, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. Burts said that the full number of chapel cuts would probably be allowed, due to the lack of a more equitable solution. “If we had known at the first of the semester we wouldn't be having those assemblies, we could have reduced the amount of absences allowed proportionately,” the dean said. The situation is now complicated, he said, by the students who have taken all or most of their allowed chapel cuts already. Burts emphasized that this situation was not final. A definite decision depends on when the contractor remodeling the auditorium wants to begin work. He had earlier cited the May 2 date as the date necessary in order to complete work by September. Should the situation change, Burts said, a new arrangement may be arrived at.

Committee Considers Proposal To Abolish Required Vespers
A proposal to abolish required vespers and to substitute a vigorous program of voluntary worship wasHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

His participation in the Washington Semester is considered by the faculty. There is a precedent to Matthews’ election while attending another school. In 1961 George Trask was elected student body president while spending his junior year at the University of Vienna in Austria.

This week, the recommendation was one of several ideas which were discussed by the committee concerning the required attendance by students at religious services at Davidson. An ad hoc group of students proceeded meanwhile with plans for a boycott of vespers Sunday night, despite the requests of student leaders to withhold any pressure during the committee's current discussions. The group distributed notices to each dormitory room last night and posted notices on the campus calling for a boycott of the Sunday night services. Several students who originally supported the idea of a boycott have since withdrawn their support of the plan, citing the current proposals and discussions of the committee as reason for their shift in support.

Parrott, Lesesne, Vick To Hold Campus Posts

Voting this week placed officers in all major campus positions. Today was the final day of campus-wide voting. Elected editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN in Tuesday's voting was Louis Lesesne. Lesesne defeated Arch McCallum 316 to 278. Peter Parrott was elected president of the College Union. Two others, Bob Dugger and Charles Elliott, ran for the office. Elliott was eliminated in Wednesday’s voting, and in a Thursday runoff, Parrott defeated Dugger 317 to 261. In the first day of voting Monday, Charles Vick was re-elected editor of the Miscellany by a 29 vote margin over sophomore Phil Jones. YMCA officers were voted on yesterday, with the exception of the president, whose election was held today. Bobby Lane was elected vice president of the Y by more than a 2-1 margin over the other two candidates. Lane got 418 votes to Mike Mooty’s 101 and Steve Humphrey's 86.

Voting on cheerleaders went into the third day today. In Wednesday's voting, Dave Perrin and Chip Pendleton were elected from the rising senior class over Penn Spell and Steve Bruce. Skip Balsley, Rusty Brannon, and David Jennings survived Wednesday's voting, which eliminated Charles Gorham, Neal Martin, and Mike Milton in voting for junior cheerleader. Balsley was eliminated in yesterday's runoff and voting today was between Brannon and Jennings for the single spot. Wednesday's voting saw eight freshmen vying for the rising sophomore’s post on the cheerleading squad. George Rogister, Al Varner, Fred Lowrance, and Larry Slade were eliminated.

GARBAGE SEATS

Approximately 200 students signed up for the tickets, excluding the Wildcat Band. Athletic Director Tom Scott told THE DAVIDSONIAN, “The tournament committee held out only 250 tickets for each participating school, and everyone of them wanted more tickets,” Scott said. “So what they did was send us some extra tickets they had left, which amounted to garbage. We had single tickets scattered all over the Coliseum.” Each of the four schools was allotted its 250 tickets in an opposite corner of the court. The position of the tickets was such that the group could sit as a block with a good view of the basketball court. Duke, Syracuse, and St. Joseph's each had their cheering section seated in the same section. The Davidson section was occupied almost exclusively by the Executive Committee of the Trustees and players’ parents. “These two groups took up about 100 tickets,” Scott said. “So the entire student group wouldn't have been able to sit together in the remaining seats anyhow,” the athletic director said. “We felt these two groups needed priority, and we couldn't put them in the poor seats we'd gotten later,” he said. The rest of the section was filled with alumni who had asked for the seats. The section directly opposite the Davidson section was occupied almost exclusively by St. Joseph's students who had no trouble out-yelling the Davidson contingent. “I think St. Joseph's must not have any alumni following,” Scott said. “But their students are really great fans.” After the 250 good seats had been assigned, Scott said, the students were given access to the tickets gotten later. The student cheering section was in a corner of the auditorium, where it was almost impossible to see any action, much less make an appreciable amount of noise, several students said. The Wildcat Band was also assigned to the same section. The Athletic Department assumed the expense of housing and tickets for the band, he said. The department is also responsible for the cheerleaders’ budget. “We offered them a place at the Y, where the band was staying,” Scott said, “but they went somewhere else to stay.” They were admitted free to the games, on their uniforms, up to eight persons, Scott said. However, at the Saturday night game, only two cheerleaders were present, including one who was not an officially elected cheerleader.

Meeting twice this week, the committee originally heard two proposals which were to combine vespers and chapel cuts, to hold vespers services every other week instead of the present weekly basis, or to create a committee which would correlate and improve the vespers programs. Members include Chaplain Will Terry, who serves as chairman, President D. Grier Martin, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Professors Lewis B. Schenck, Daniel D. Rhodes, and Donald B. Plott, and student representatives Murray Smith, Mike Mooty, and Neil McBryde. In a Wednesday afternoon meeting, the committee heard the proposal by several students who had originally supported the boycott idea that the required vespers program be discontinued. The group announced that it hoped to make some recommendation concerning the situation to the faculty at its April meeting. It seemed to be the feeling of the committee, remarked one member to THE DAVIDSONIAN, that it might be better “to abolish vespers altogether rather than to crucify (the program) through proposals which would cause a gradual decline in attendance.” The proposals to combine the chapel and vespers cuts were not received favorably by the committee; however, the group will meet again Monday to consider the other recommendations.

President Speaks Out On Vespers Question

By MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“If the vespers requirements which we do have now are done away with, the results will probably be that we will have no real vespers service,” President D. Grier Martin said to about 250 students Wednesday night at Open End. In response to moderator Murray Smith’s question about the President's own personal feelings on possible changes in required vespers services, Martin stated there were too many factors and proposals involved for him to express his opinion. But he further commented that there were a great many men among the faculty, administration, and trustees who were concerned about student feelings on required vespers services and who were willing to discuss the subject with the students. The threat of a possible student boycott of vespers services remained a volatile subject. Martin at first expressed his distress that some students felt the administration so deaf to their objections that they found it necessary to organize boycotts. Citing the past discussion over the trunk rule controversy, he said, “I believe that during the time of my responsibility, a great deal of action has been taken on many different matters due to student interest.” Firmly declaring his opposition to any form of student boycott, Martin concluded: “But I want to say to you with all the sincerity that I can, that I do not believe Davidson College will be willing to take any action as a result of what pressure might be applied.” At one point during the questioning period, Buzz Hardin and Bob Groat, self-avowed sponsors of the boycott, declared that the planned boycott was a one-shot affair to express student beliefs, not to put pressure on the administration or anyone else—“to show that students really care.” Martin gravely thanked them for their elucidation and said he had been misinformed as to the intent of the boycott. But he suggested there were other more positive channels of student communication with the administration, such as petitions and statements of beliefs, that might better express student sincerity. One student engaged the President in a sharp line of questioning, as he demanded that Martin declare the fate of students who en masse overcut vespers services. “The rules will be enforced, all of them, for everyone.”

---