FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1966

TOM COOK On Sports

A VISIT WITH HOMER

Walking into Davidson’s football office is an experience everyone should have. If for nothing else, the sincerity which ebbs from
head coach Homer Smith and, in this case, assistants Dick Tomey and Dave Fagg makes one want to sit down
and just observe the manner of these men.

When I walked in, these three were discussing goal-line offenses. Without hesitation, Homer almost invited my opinion of the circles
and lines on the blackboard. It was a complicated play, but his explanation made it sure for a touchdown because
it was so strategically perfect. This is the modest genius of the men in “The New Look—Chapter Two” in Davidson
football.

Monday will begin Homer Smith's second spring football practice. With a 3-4 record in his first year here, he is
regarded somewhere near the category of the savior of Davidson football. There aren’t any “Homer” jokes. To many people, Homer
Smith is a distant, mysterious figure.

But Homer Smith has Davidson on his mind. From football to Vespers, he cares about this school. He proudly notes
that every visiting football prospect this year has talked with at least two professors. A long-awaited football recruiting brochure features
things that any high school junior, not just a football player, would want to know about Davidson.

Homer Smith is the kind of guy you wish every interview could be with. If you have a question, you
will get an answer. Everyone believes we will improve our 6-4 record. Most likely we will, but the road to
that goal will not be easy. Davidson has only 18 lettered Wildcats, which means freshmen and inexperienced squad members must
assume a greater role if this edition of the Richardson Field ramblers is to jell.

Of the backfield, Smith says, “They will all have to be ready.” Steve Smith is gone, and the load falls
primarily to Bill Taylor, Johnny Walker, and Pete Glidewell. Smith is high on Glidewell’s receiving abilities, and he may find
himself at flanker (No more tweener back this year). A freshman who must help is Mike Thornton.

In the defensive backfield where Renn Gruber and Tommy Caldwell are the mainstays, someone must fill the shoes of departed
All-Conference Dave Sprinkle. Caldwell, whose speed makes him a dangerous runner, will play offensively too this fall since probably less
than forty players will reconvene for football camp in September.

WEIGHT THE KEY

The hardest positions to fill will be the container positions of All-Conference Pack Hindsley and big Jim Rollins, and the
interior offensive line posts. Smith is high on four big freshmen linemen who must play a vital part if Davidson
is to be offensively potent this fall. The weight of Hank Strickland, Sandy Brenneman, Joe Murphy, and Jeff Pflugner is
important because games like William and Mary in which we were sorely outweighed must be less frequent. Center Walter Greene
will have to anchor the offensive line if it is to act experienced despite the greenness it most certainly will
have.

Smith mentions three lettermen whose performances last year put them in the spotlight this year. Defensive cornerback Tommy Dews is
Davidson’s number one All-Conference nominee. Smith describes him as “tremendous, as conspicuous as Pack Hindsley, the greatest defensive player in
Davidson history.”

“We are very fortunate to have two experienced quarterbacks, Jake Jacobsen and Jimmy Poole. Their abilities differ, so when we
substitute one for the other, we don’t expect the same job. Both are good executors and move the team well,”
says Homer. In addition to his signal-calling duties, Jacobsen will work with the defensive secondary.

THE SCHEDULE

Discussing the schedule, Smith noted, “We want to stretch ourselves. That’s why we are going intersectional.” If this doesn’t make
sense, consider how William and Mary romped on us after colliding with Navy the week before. “Our schedule is planned
to give the greatest advantage toward winning the conference.” We have conference games with GW, Furman, East Carolina, El Cid,
and Richmond, plus games with P.C., Wofford, and Wittenburg.

Wittenburg is not too well known in this area, but they are annually one of the Midwest's top small college
teams. (Remember Bucknell?) We must play them in Ohio in the future, but not in 1967. The schedule is largely
like last year’s. Gone are VMI, W and M, Lafayette, and Bucknell. But East Carolina is another team with the
horses, and they will be hard to beat. We have only four home games.

SMITH THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOOTBALLERS AWAIT SPRING PRACTICE

FB Drills To Begin

Head football coach Homer Smith and his “New Look” team of assistants, Bobby Brown, Dick Short, Dave Fagg, and Dick
Tomey, will greet around 40 candidates Monday afternoon when they launch spring football practice. The drills, which will run for
five weeks, will culminate in an open intrasquad scrimmage on May 14.

Smith and his staff have been planning the practice for several weeks with emphasis on tailoring the ‘Cats offense to
the talents of members of this year’s squad. Eighteen lettermen are scattered among the 40 out for practice. Ends Bill
Rikard, Claude Owen, and Buddy Newsome will form the offensive nucleus. Newsome will also see action on defense.

Lowell Bryan, Randy Randolph, and Kit Thompson are returnees at tackle. The offensive guards are two positions where no candidate
has any substantial experience; but at center, sophomore Walter Greene, a starter last year, will return, and around him, the
offensive line will be developed.

The situation is much brighter in the backfield. Junior quarterbacks Jimmy Poole and Jake Jacobsen were instrumental in the ‘Cats’
six victories last fall, and they will give both depth and experience to the signal-calling slot. Running backs who contributed
much to last fall’s successful season are junior Johnny Walker and sophomores Bill Taylor and Pete Glidewell.

1966 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 17 Geo. Washington
24 Furman
Oct. 8 East Carolina
15 Presbyterian
22 Richmond
29 The Citadel (HC)
Nov. 5 Lehigh
12 Wofford
19 Wittenburg

Kappa Sigs Swim To IMAC Crown

Davidson fraternity men pulled their swim trunks out of mothballs and hit the water to highlight the final days before
spring break in the annual IMAC swim meet, held on March 23 and 24. It was a warmup for many
of the swimmers who were to hit the nation's beaches during the recess.

A strong Kappa Sig team took four first places out of a possible nine and came away the victors. The
Sigs had a total of 45 team points. They were led by strong performances by Peter Parrott, Dan Campbell, Harold
Young, and Ernie Doe.

The Phi Delts, last month’s IMAC track champs, followed with 34 points, taking three first places, but not enough second
and third places to enable them to catch the Sigs. They were paced by Laurie Eckman, Kerry Keith, and Steve
Smith. The Delts proved to be the only serious competition for the strong Sigs.

The Sigs and Delts were followed by the Machis with 16 points, the SAE’s...with 13, the SPE's with 7, the
KA's with 4, the Pikas with 2, and the Beta's and ATO's with one point each.

RESULTS:
25 yd. butterfly
(1) Eckman (Delt)—13.1
(2) Helm (SPE)
(3) Keith (Delt)
(4) Williamson (KSig).

25 yd. freestyle
(1) Smith (Delt)—11.5
(2) Campbell (KSig)
(3) Young (KSig)
(4) C. Timmons (Beta).

50 yd. freestyle
(1) Dickens (Machi)—25.9
(2) Hill (SAE)
(3) Here (Delt).

75 yd. freestyle
(1) Campbell (KSig)—43.3
(2) Cross (SAE)
(3) Bagby (KA)
(4) Clifton (ATO).

50 yd. backstroke
(1) Parrott (KSig)—32.4
(2) Eckman (Delt)
(3) Dickens (Machi)
(4) Wheeler (SPE).

50 yd. breaststroke
(1) Doe (KSig)—32.9
(2) Snow (Machi)
(3) Bagby (KA)
(4) Cross (SAE).

75 yd. individual medley
(1) Homer (SAE)—51.8
(2) Helm (SPE)
(3) Young (KSig)
(4) Garner (Delt).

200 yd. relay
(1) Delt—(Eckman, Keith, Loughridge, Smith)—1.46.8
(2) KSig—(Holt, Daniel, Campbell, Young)
(3) SAE—(Homer, Hill, Cross, McKenzie)
(4) Sigma Chi—(Kopp, Lanier, Hamil, Curtis).

150 yd. medley
(1) KSig—(Parrott, King, Doe)—1.34.3
(2) Delt—(Wilson, Parker, Leight)
(3) Sigma Chi—(Dickens, Snow, Scoville)
(4) Pika—(Schroeder, Brown, Moye).

DAVIDSON Drive-In Theater
FRI-SAT-SUN
2 ALL-COLOR SWINGERS
Frankie Avalon
Vincent Price
“DR. GOLDFOOT AND THE BIKINI MACHINE”
SANDRA DEE
“Take Her She's Mine”

In the defensive secondary, Tommy Caldwell and safety Renn Gruber will be joined by the heir to All-Conference Dave Sprinkle’s
halfback position. Dick Lindsey is a prime candidate for this position. Two upperclassmen who are learning new duties are former
backs Bill Webb, who will play guard, and sophomore Ted Howell, who will play linebacker. Johnny Giles may be a
vital man in the linebacker ranks replacing Short who graduates to the coaching ranks.

Smith is counting on freshmen to help fill the gaps on his offensive and defensive units. Fullback Mike Thornton will
be depended upon greatly. Backup man for Poole and Jacobson falls to Rick Simonson. Freshman halfback Greg Cox will be
moved to split-end to take advantage of his speed and pass receiving qualities. Kerry Keith looms important in enlarging a
sparse field of running backs. Freshman linemen who could move into starting positions are Hank Strickland and Jeff Pflugner at
tackle and Joe Murphy and Lindsay Bishop at guard. Sandy Brenneman will give some depth at center. Freshman defensive back
Hal Shaw will be moved to tight end. Defensive hopefuls are Bill Richmond, Lew Homer, and speedster Eddie Rice. With
the only returning standout in cornerback Tommy Dews, spring practice must be used to determine a capable performer for each
of the other starting positions. Coach Smith, while knowing much more this spring about his material, still must tailor his
game strategies to his players.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Since lack of depth is a definite liability, conditioning will take on added emphasis this spring.

Re-write the books! There's a change in curriculum. Toronado’s in! Front wheel drive with 385-horse Rocket V-8 takes boredom out
of the course! No more cramming—with flat floors, six passengers are a snap! Toronado styling takes honors over anything else
on the road! (No wonder Motor Trend Magazine named it Car of the Year!) Just sample the style and action
of any of the Toronado-inspired Rocket Action Oldsmobiles. You'll want to major in Olds ownership!

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW!
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine

Our football program is geared to win the Southern Conference. We will be picked near the bottom again, but we
are now a factor in determining the conference champion. Davidson will not win the Southern Conference this year, but we
should have our finest conference record in many years.

And Homer Smith and his strategists work on into the night, finally taking leave at 3 a.m. They have a
lot of work to do. But soon it will pay off.

TORONADO
NINETY-EIGHT
DELTA 88
DYNAMIC 88
JETSTAR 88
CUTLASS
F-85
VISTA-CRUISER
STARFIRE
4-4-2

OLDSMOBILE
GREAT TIME TO GO WHERE THE ACTION IS! SEE YOUR LOCAL AUTHORIZED OLDSMOBILE QUALITY DEALER

OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

STEP OUT FRONT
