PAGE SIX

Lingle Manor Features Student-Faculty Talks

Lingle Manor played host to Dr. Daniel Rhodes last night in the second of its series of student-faculty discussions. Dr. Rhodes spoke to the 25-member group on “Ethics and the Davidson Student,” focusing his talk on the moral aspects of two current campus controversies, Vespers and drinking. Earlier this month Professor P. B. Secor met with the group for a session on pacifism. A similar program with a third professor is planned for May.

According to Manor President Sam Johnson, the discussions are designed to “put some life” into the group itself, improve student-faculty relationships and “attract people.” “We're using interesting professors as bait,” said Johnson. “We think we've got something to offer; but with our present poor image, we can't get anybody down to the Manor to convince them of it.” Johnson also said that the group plans to approach the next freshman class with letters this summer and receptions next fall.

Lingle Manor was begun five years ago by a group of students who, according to Johnson, felt that “there was a void in the campus structure.” Although the organization is open to both fraternity members and Independents, its membership is predominantly Independent. It attempts to provide both social and intellectual activities. Dues are $10 per semester. The Manor itself belongs to the College, which rents it to the student group. Located across from Richardson dorm, the house was originally a private residence. Aside from Johnson, the Board consists of Spencer Caldwell, vice-president; Charlie Persons, secretary; De Rogers, treasurer; and members-at-large Paul Pitts, Roger Murcer, Bill Norfleet and John Viser.

Associations Honor Maloney, Hopkins

Dr. Samuel Maloney and Dr. John Hopkins, two Davidson professors, were recently honored in elections by associations of academicians in their respective fields. Dr. John Hopkins was recently elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, while Dr. Samuel Maloney was elected president of the Southern Section of the American Academy of Religion.

Dr. Hopkins, chairman of the Physics Department, received the honor in recognition of his contributions to science. He has served as a consultant with the Atomic Energy Commission at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory since 1950. He is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics honorary and is a member of the American Physical Society. Since coming to Davidson in 1958, Dr. Hopkins has served on the Governor's Committee on Atomic Energy and is currently chairman of the committee on radiation standards for the state. While working under a research contract with the Atomic Energy Commission, Dr. Hopkins was instrumental in the development of radiation detection instruments and new techniques for studying radiation.

Dr. Maloney, associate professor of Bible, served as vice president of the southern section of the American Academy of Religion this past year and stepped into the presidency at a recent meeting at Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Ga. During the meeting, papers were presented by two other Davidson professors. Dr. A. J. McKelway, assistant professor of Bible and Religion, delivered a paper entitled “Contemporary Options in Theological Anthropology” in response to the position advanced by Professor Thomas J. J. Altizer of Emory University in a “Death of God” theology symposium. Dr. Anthony Abbot, assistant professor of English, presented a paper entitled “Religion in the Theatre: The Contemporary Situation.”

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Abbott
Daggy
Abernethy
Fredericksen
Bernard
Holland
Bondurant
Houchens
Burts
King
Covington
Lloyd
Richey
Marrotte
Scott
Martin, S.
Stroud
McGill
Wolf
Minter
Workman

The following professors have been invited to these fraternity open houses after Vespers:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Barber, Bryan, Cumming, Ghigo, Hayes, Hopkins, Johnston, F. W., Smith, H. and Whittle.

SIGMA NU
Lindsey, Logan, MacCormac, McGeachy, Maloney, Mebane, Parker, Plymale and Reid.

KAPPA ALPHA
Plott, Rhodes, Secor, Stevens, Van Egmond, Walker, Wruck, Sailstad and Tomey.

Selective Service Test To Alter Draft Status

Within 45 days of the termination of this school year on June 5, the Registrar's office will be required to report a student's scholastic standing to his local draft board. The selective service form will ask the college to state what year of college work the student has achieved and whether he is ranked in the upper fourth, half, two-thirds, three-fourths, or lower one-fourth of his class for that preceding school year.

SPE Housemother Succumbs Monday

Mrs. Vonita W. Atwater, 67, of Davidson died in a Mooresville hospital early Monday morning. She had been receiving treatment since Friday, following a stroke. Mrs. Atwater was the housemother of Sigma Phi Epsilon, where she had worked since coming to Davidson in the fall of 1961. She was a native of upstate New York and had lived in London, Paris and Japan. A memorial service was held Tuesday in Lingle Chapel, with the Rev. Will Terry officiating. Mrs. Atwater is survived by her son, Robert Atwater, her sister-in-law, Mrs. James Weeks of Winston-Salem and her husband of Asbury Park, N. J. Graveside services were held yesterday morning in Canajoharie, N. Y.

Organ Recital Sunday

The Davidson College Music Department will present Bill Aitken, organist, in his graduation recital at 4 p.m., Sunday, in the College Presbyterian Church. A music major, Aitken has served as assistant editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, was dean of the student chapter of the American Guild of Organists and a member of the Social Council. Holder of the Theodore Presser Music Scholarship, Aitken is a member of Eumenean Literary Society and has been the accompanist-organist for the Davidson College Male Chorus this year. For the past two years he has been organist-choirmaster for the Davidson Methodist Church. He plans to enter the ministry and will attend Union Theological Seminary in New York next fall.

Aitken will be heard in the “Suite de Deuxieme Ton” by Clerambault, Mozart's “Andante in F, K.616,” and J. S. Bach's “Toccata, Adagio and Fugue in C.” He will conclude his recital with the late Henry Cowell’s “Hymn and Fuguing Tune No. 14” which was commissioned by the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York, and Paul Creston’s “Suite, Op. 70.” Following the program, the members of the Davidson Methodist Church will honor Aitken with a reception in the Fellowship Hall of that church.

Gift Fund Hopes For $200 More

Allen Webb, chairman of the YMCA Gift Fund announced that the fund needs to collect some $200 from Vespers this week to meet its goal. The Y Gift Fund has collected $159 from three separate large gifts and from Vespers offerings and according to Webb, the Gift Fund contains $600 more from offerings taken at the end of last year. Webb commented that “we hope to reach our goal of $800 from the last Vespers offering Sunday night.” Walt McDonald's request in chapel won the approval of the student body for this year’s Gift Fund to provide vocational training for young mothers. Webb said that the goal of $800 would provide six scholarships to Central Piedmont Community College for a year of training for such vocations as stenographers and practical nurses.

Let us dryclean your clothes for the concert and party and wash your good shirts.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Main St—Across From The Gulf Station

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1966

Holcomb To Speak In Chapel Monday Dr.Harmon R. Holcomb, professor of Philosophical Theology at Colgate-Rochester Seminary in Rochester, N.Y., will speak in chapel on Monday. Dr. Holcomb, who has debated with Paul Van Buren, ardent proponent of the “Death of God” theology, will speak on this controversial theology, which he opposes for “rational and philosophical reasons.”

A score of 70 on the Selective Service test will allow a student to be considered for deferment by his local board. If this score is not met, the student may be considered for deferment on the basis of his class standing: upper half of his class for a freshman, upper two-thirds of the class for sophomores, upper three-fourths of his class for a junior, and if a senior wishes to continue his education in graduate school, he must have a score of 80 on the test or rank in the upper one-fourth of his class. Class standing will be based solely on the September-June academic year. No provision is being allowed for work done in summer school. At the time the college files this report with the various draft boards it must state whether the student is eligible to return for the next academic year. Students with delinquencies will be listed as eligible for re-enrollment subject to summer school probation. Mr. Hengeveld feels that these new criteria for student deferment will result in an increase of enrollment in advanced ROTC.

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

A group of Independents and faculty members who have been studying the possibility of establishing an eating club will pass out questionnaires to the entire student body next week concerning Davidson's social system. The questionnaires will also solicit specific opinions on the feasibility of establishing an eating club. The committee—consisting of Andy Little, Joe Obenshain, George Williams, Bruce Hyslop, George Brown, Dr. William McGavock, Dr. Frank Bliss, and Dr. Earl MacCormac—started working on the eating club at the beginning of this year. They have held meetings every two weeks to discuss the matter so that the idea could be carefully planned before arousing any student anticipation.

They want to form an organization which will appeal to the entire student body and which will present an alternative choice for freshmen who are trying to decide whether or not to join a fraternity, Obenshain told THE DAVIDSONIAN. It will be more than just an eating club, though, he said. It will also offer intellectual, athletic, and social opportunities for the student to develop his full potential. It will be completely nondiscriminatory, and its members will plan and support whatever projects it undertakes. They feel that the existing facilities at Davidson are simply not adequate, Obenshain said. “Others are trying to revise the system by working within it,” he commented. “We want to break away from the present system and offer the student body something entirely new.” This group is not an anti-fraternity group, he emphasized. They simply feel that the Union is not a satisfactory Independent organization and want to form a smaller group of 60 or 70 people who can really get to know one another and can plan and participate in activities together. They also hope to find out what sort of eating clubs people would support. They have asked the Student Life Evaluation Committee to add any questions they wish to add.

Rush Rules
(Continued From Page One)

The meeting also recommended a continuation of as many open parties “as feasible” and made tentative plans for a retreat next fall for faculty members, IFC and fraternity leaders, and any interested students to informally “talk over the fraternity situation.” According to the new rush regulations, formal rush will begin at the start of the second semester next year with four nights of parties, Monday, January 30, through Thursday, February 2, the last two nights reserved for date parties. There will be three parties each evening, at 7, 8, and 9. They extended the faculty's rule to prohibit upperclassmen in the freshman dorms after 7:30 p.m. on Sunday-Friday, and barred freshmen from attending official fraternity parties. Furthermore, no freshman can enter a fraternity house without the permission of the Dean of Students. There will be periods of silence between semesters and during the interim between the sending and acceptance of bids. Most of the so-called “standard” rules will be carried over to 1966-67. The IFC will operate on the same definition of rush with summer rush and derogatory remarks about other fraternities still prohibited.

Two members of the faculty have won fellowships for advanced study from the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church. Instructor Charles C. Cornwell of Davidson's English Department has won a major fellowship awarded by the Presbyterian Church US Board of Christian Education. Each of this year’s four winners of Fellowships for Advanced Study will receive $2500, which is matched by an equal amount from the institution in which they teach. The annual awards are used to finance advanced study leading to the completion of PhD requirements. Cornwell plans to study English at the University of Virginia's graduate school. Dr. Malcolm Lester, chairman of the History Department, has also won an award from the Board of Christian Education. He will use his Grant-in-Aid for the Improvement of Teaching to help finance advanced study in England during his sabbatical leave next year.

The computation and actual filling of these forms will add greatly to the workload of the registrar's office and it may be necessary to employ additional labor to fulfill the new requirements of the Selective Service. This form which the registrar’s office files is one of four it files for students. It files a first report at the time a student is accepted for admission. A second form is filed by October 15 of each school year stating that the individual is a full-time student carrying a normal academic load. The third form is the new one stating scholastic standing. A fourth form is filed when a student terminates his enrollment. As such, students are classified I-D and are not subject to the draft.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Write your name in the pages of history. But—don’t forget your address.

THE DAVIDSONIAN SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Don’t Miss A Single Issue This Fall
Name
Address
City
Zip
— I enclose $4.00
— Bill me at $4.50
Mail to Circulation Manager
Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036

A touching story! FOR YOU TO EXPLORE COME SEE! TODAY

DELUXE
Our new suits feel great to the touch, because they feature new hopsack and plain weave fabrics expertly blended of dacron with wool or cotton. Masterful tailoring, fit, and styling for the pace-setting traditionalist. Only 47.95 to 59.95

HOUSE OF FAMOUS BRANDS
John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE

Anything goes when you wear “IT'S CRICKET”
Exceptional Men’s Toiletries. Try it and see. (Girls, give it and find out!) After-shave, 4 oz., $3.50, Cologne, 4 oz., $4.50. Available in drug stores and cosmetic departments of department stores. Another fine product of Kayser-Roth.