VOL. LVI

FOR A WILD WEEKEND

Clay Ford Gets Ready To Collect Prize

Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1966

(Staff Photo by Olson)

Ford’s ‘Tough’ Date Gets Most From Life

Junior Clay Ford, as a result of his winning a contest sponsored by Dare magazine, will board an airplane today
to begin an expense-free weekend excursion with a beautiful girl from Ohio Wesleyan College. To enter the contest Ford had
to write a letter to the girl telling her "how to get the most out of life." The girl, Susan
Myers, judged the letters and chose the winner.

Ford said that he and some of his fraternity brothers happened to be reading the advertisement and someone suggested that
one of them should enter. Ford decided that if he had the time he would write the girl. Then he
became sick, and wrote the prize-winning letter while in the infirmary. Ford said that he wrote it in a "half-serious,
half-joking" manner.

Student-Faculty Retreat Set

"Skepticism in religion" will be the main topic of discussion this weekend at a student-faculty retreat, sponsored by the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church. Mike Mooty, member of a student committee headed by Ron Hunt, expressed high hopes for the retreat.
Mooty expects from 30-35 students to attend, and says that as many as 10 faculty members will also be present.

The program will begin Friday night in the student lounge of the College Church. Dr. Philip Secor, assistant professor of
political science, and Dr. Tom Clark, associate professor of Bible, will then make a formal presentation on the subject of
the retreat. On Saturday after lunch, the retreat will be continued at Camp Thunderbird, S. C. where there will be
a panel discussion. The panel, which will include Julian Prosser, Tom Frist, Buddy Newsom and three other students, will explore
the students’ side of the problem. Most of the remaining time will be used for informal group discussions. Dr. Daniel
Rhodes will lead a Sunday morning worship service.

SOPHOMORES SHINE IN ‘CATS’ FIRST WIN (See Page Five)

NUMBER ELEVEN

Freshman Campused For Drinking Violation

Two Named To Blue Sky Committee

By ROBERT PYEATT
Staff Writer

Bobby Lane and Doug Woodworth have been selected to serve as non-voting student representatives on the Faculty’s “Blue Sky” Committee.
Lane and Woodworth were chosen from a list of nominees presented by the Student Curriculum Revision Committee which included seniors
Bill Norman, George Nzongola and Woodworth, and juniors Sumner Bullard, Ross Cornwell and Lane.

The faculty committee voted three weeks ago to accept non-voting student representation on the Blue Sky Committee following a proposal
by the Student Curriculum Revision Committee and lengthy discussion.

"I hope we will have some new ideas and be able to represent effectively the student body," Woodworth, a senior
from Staunton, Va., commented. "I think we will have to dig into some of our resources, particularly recent graduates who
are in grad school to get different perspectives on curriculum reform. We will work with the Student Curriculum Revision Committee
and find out what changes are being proposed."

"This is a tremendous opportunity and a tremendous responsibility," Lane, a junior from New Orleans, remarked, "since there will only
be two of us representing the student body. We have the responsibility of making a significant contribution."

The student committee divided its choices among juniors and seniors in order to gain a measure of continuity, while taking
advantage of the number of interested seniors.

Union Acts To Rectify Magazine Sale Losses

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The College Union is taking steps to rectify and to prevent the recurrence of a reported magazine swindle, according to
College Union Director C. Shaw Smith. Seventeen students have reported being approached by unauthorized magazine salesmen who were on campus
before the holidays, Smith continued. The Union has issued a questionnaire inquiring into the circumstances of the sales and discussed
the problem with the Better Business Bureau in Charlotte and the president of the circulation company for whom the salesmen
were supposedly working.

Many of the students overpaid for subscriptions, which were purchased during door-to-door soliciting in the dormitories. The president of the
company has told Smith that "I will do all I can to make up for the losses." The problem has
been reported to the Better Business Bureau in Charlotte, which is working with the circulation company to track down the
salesmen. The salesmen typically said that they were working their way through college and that the subscriptions would help them
pay their tuition.

COACHING JOB

Smith Denies Contact With UNC

Head Football Coach Homer Smith has denied having any contact with officials at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill over the vacant head football coach's job there. Smith’s name has been mentioned in some circles as a possible
replacement to Jim Hickey.

YRC Forum Finds No Racial Solution

By TOM WHEATLEY
Staff Writer

The lengths to which government can go in regulating morality without endangering, more than aiding, freedom was inconclusively debated by
six Davidson students in the Young Republican Club Forum at Open End Wednesday night.

Dan Mombrea was to begin the opening statements, but instead of speaking on the subject, he decried the fact that
none of the race that civil rights legislation is trying to help was serving on the panel. Joe Beard got
the real discussion under way by pointing out that morality should not be under government control. He said that regulation
of property deprives a person of the use of his property, and that this use is the true value of
the property. Sam Johnson took the opposite view, that a purpose of state+ A SITTING-DOWN DISCUSSION

Joe Beard (L), Dan Mombrea, Harry Hamil, and Sam Johnson Seek Answer. Standing, Mederstor Louis Lesesne (Staff Photo by Olson)
is to ensure mutual justice. Since racial segregation is unjust, the citizens can be forced to observe justice. Because a
“nature of government is regulation,” Johnson claimed that property, choice . . . can be regulated just as murder and
robbery can. The “government does not have anything to regulate but morality." The state “must make racial injustice illegal.”

Harry Hamil said that it was “not a question of personal vs. property rights, but of personal vs. personal and
property rights.” Therefore the justification of civil rights legislation “must be a value judgment, either moral or pragmatic.”

Charles Vick first admitted that he really didn’t know anything about the problem, but he thought that legislation usually follows
practice. He said the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was to plug loopholes in present laws and to prevent some
counties from getting around previous voting laws. As to motels, they are “public places,” and the “Negro is part of
the ‘public.’” He told of a Negro who had to sleep in his Cadillac because he couldn't find a “Negro
motel.”

Tom Rhodes asked, “how can you decide what is public, what is private property?” What if the owner of the
Cadillac, mentioned by Vick, “couldn’t choose who could sleep in his car?” Rhodes went on to say that races have
inherited differences and “any civil rights movement which makes supposition to the contrary is ignorant.” According to Rhodes, equality means
“equality under the law, not enforced mixing.”

Vick then brought up the problem of the organizations which have grown up out of the civil rights movement bringing
civil unrest. Finally, a member of the audience stated that if freedom was the question, neither forced segregation nor forced
integration was right, but that freedom of choice and association must prevail. This was countered with the paradox that only
force will preserve freedom.

Another member of the audience, Leslie Brown, stated that this was typical of white sitting-down discussion of the “black problem.”
For, he went on to say, this is a “white man’s problem not a black problem” as it was called
by the whites.

Faculty Overrules Dismissal

The faculty voted Monday at a special called meeting to lessen to campusing until spring holidays the penalty of a
freshman convicted earlier by the Executive Committee for being under the influence of alcohol on campus. The violation of the
faculty's rule listed in the Wildcat Handbook under “Student Conduct,” Section 5a, occurred Nov. 19 at the concert by the
Four Seasons. The Executive Committee heard testimony on the case on Nov. 22 and sentenced the student to a semester's
suspension from the college.

Subsequently, the student appealed his sentence to the faculty, claiming it was excessive, though no denial of guilt was made.

DOUG WOODWORTH

They had no living parents. Smith said that last year magazine salesmen came around claiming to be selling for Boys’
Town. By publicizing the college regulations concerning unauthorized dormitory soliciting, Smith hopes to prevent the recurrence of more incidents. Smith
emphasized that soliciting of any kind is prohibited in all dormitories, and that permission has never been granted for door-to-door
selling. Salesmen on campus, if they are authorized, will be announced by the Union before they arrive, according to Smith.

NO HOSTILITY

A college security officer reported the violation to the Office of the Dean of Students after seeing the student fall
in the lobby of Chambers. The security officer asked the student if he was under the influence of alcohol. The
student was cooperative with the security officer and showed no hostility, according to the report to the Dean of Students.
The officer did not testify before the Executive Committee or the faculty.

Student Body President Chuck Matthews and Student Body Second Vice-President Tom Earnhardt represented the student at the faculty meeting Monday.

UNUSUAL SEVERITY

In their defense, they pointed to the unusual severity of the Executive Committee's punishment under the circumstances of the case,
including his cooperation, and his liability to the draft should he be suspended. In addition, they called attention to the
lack of consistency in enforcing the faculty’s ban on drinking and being under the influence.

“The committee went by the rule book.” Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. said later. “It’s too soon to
say whether the faculty’s action can be interpreted as a precedent." The dean ventured an opinion that a similar case
would be decided with a like punishment by the Executive Committee as the first decision.

SOME DOUBT

But the incident introduces an element of doubt, he said, in future decisions by the committee. “The faculty has generally
overruled the Executive Committee about once every 10 years,” he explained, but went on to point out that the last
time this occurred was something over four years ago. “Of course, the faculty didn’t overrule the committee,” Burts explained, “it
merely changed the punishment. There was never any discussion about the student's guilt.”

Mooty Elected To Edit ’67 Wildcat Handbook

Junior Mike Mooty was elected editor of the Wildcat Handbook on Nov. 22. Mooty received 162 votes to Bruce Weihe's
102 votes. Mooty said, “We want to find out from the freshmen what was helpful to them and what was
not needed.” In his platform Mooty suggested that the handbook include the Honor Court's pamphlet on the Honor System, a
revised social life section with a description of places to go and things to do in Charlotte, and a description
of course options open to freshmen.”

After picking his staff, Mooty wants “to decide on the format of the Handbook.” With approximately $600 remaining from the
'66 Handbook budget, “it is safe to assume that the '67 Handbook could be greatly enlarged in scope with regard
to size and content, number of pictures and cover printing.”
