Though “Davidson College is opposed to the use of alcoholic beverages by students,” say the faculty regulations, the Student Store
nonetheless features a display case of such items as highball, brandy, and old-fashioned glasses and a martini pitcher, all properly
embossed with the great seal of Davidson College. But then maybe they’re only for sale to the faculty. (Staff Photo
by Olson)

EAST EUROPEAN VARIETY
3rd Communism Propounded
By AL VARNER
Staff Writer

“The Third Communism” which exists today in the countries of Eastern Europe was the subject of Tuesday's chapel speaker, Leopold
Tyrmand. Tyrmand, a native of Poland, is visiting this country in connection with the U.S. State Department. The “Third Communism”
which he described was one very different from those currently existing in the Soviet Union and Red China.

According to Tyrmand, this communism is based on a different set of values than those of the Russians or Red
Chinese. These values seem to be more Western in their nature than the coldly idealistic values upon which the other
two communisms are based. Another characteristic of this particular brand of communism is that the people under it have been
conditioned to accept it. An example he used here was that there is no Siberia in Eastern Europe because the
people have adjusted to the system so well.

Finally, Tyrmand noted that there is no basic distrust in the individual who lives in this “Third Communism.” While the
Russians are extremely unbelieving and will even go to great ends to imagine schemes against them, the East Europeans will
accept improbable situations if they are affirmed by a reasonably reliable source. For example, Tyrmand said that people in Eastern
Europe talked about a man who has been “deported” by the secret police while people in Russia would not even
discuss the man after his disappearance.

Also, Tyrmand said that this “Third Communism” could be distinguished by several characteristics. The first of these is that it
was established without a military revolution, though several small revolutions against this communism have occurred. Tyrmand's example concerning the last
statement involved Russians who wouldn't believe that American workers owned their own cars. Even when they were told to ask
the workers themselves, the Russians said that the workers would certainly lie to keep up the “obvious” ruse. On the
other hand, Tyrmand said that East Europeans might question the ownership of the cars once, but they would accept it
as fact when they were reassured it was true.

Tyrmand, himself, is very interesting in that he is a journalist, author, and jazz enthusiast, and has even worked with
the Polish Red Cross and as a staff member of an influential Catholic weekly in East Europe. He has written
several novels and short stories and his latest novel, High Society and Sentimental Life, was banned from East Europe for
political reasons and will soon be published in America.

Tryouts Scheduled For Play

Tryouts for “She Stoops To Conquer,” the first major production of the Drama Department, will be held in Hodson Hall,
Cunningham Fine Arts Building, Monday and Tuesday nights at 7 p.m. The play, an 18th-century comedy by Oliver Goldsmith, requires
a cast of about fifteen men and four women.

Among the men’s roles are: Mr. Charles Marlowe, the lead, a dashing, upper-class young man who is traveling into the
country to meet Kate Hardcastle, the fiancée selected by his father; Mr. George Hastings, Marlowe's friend and companion on the
journey; Tony Lumpkin, Kate's mischievous step-brother who perpetrates the misunderstandings; Mr. Hardcastle, Kate's old-fashioned, but well-meaning father; Sir Charles Marlowe,
young Marlowe's father; and Diggory, head servant in the Hardcastle's household. Among the minor roles are a group of Tony's
buddies at the local tavern and servants at the Hardcastle's estate.

The four women include: Kate Hardcastle, who stoops to conquer; Constance, her friend, engaged to Mr. Hastings; Mrs. Hardcastle, a
doting, pushy mother, and several servants in the household.

Fraternities, Classes Up Grade Averages

The All Men’s Average showed a .033 advance from the 1964-65 academic year to the 1965-66 year, leading advances in
all categories but one. Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity led all fraternities with a 1.951, followed by Alpha Tau Omega and
Pi Kappa Phi. The All Fraternity Average was also up, showing an increase from 1.736 in 1964-65 to 1.752 in
1965-66. The breakup is as follows:

Category
Senior Class
Junior Class
Sophomore Class
Freshman Class
All Men’s Average

Auditorium Renovation Heads Lists Of Projects

Renovation of Chambers Auditorium at an estimated cost of $430,000 heads the list of campus improvements made during a summer
filled with many projects and pressing deadlines. Robert A. Currie, college business manager, said that the renovation was the single
most expensive project, followed by the air-conditioning of Little Hall and the building of three residences for new additions to
the college staff. Grover C. Meetze, director of physical plant, explained that while these three were the largest projects, the
time and expense involved in numerous lesser undertakings was almost as great.

The auditorium project included air conditioning, new seats, the redesigning of the stage, new lights, and reworking of the walls
and ceiling as major parts of the renovation. Meetze said that the construction had been aimed for completion by Sept.
15. In order to meet the deadline, construction workers had to work overtime on Saturdays and Sundays during the past
several weeks as well as working into the night during the final week. Still, final touches had not been completed
as the first assembly was held on Monday.

Construction of the three new homes was also plagued by the pressure of a pending deadline as they were put
up in almost record time. In other projects, new shelves have been added to the library, and several months were
needed to finish the clocks.

Clock Factory Plans To Open On Oct. 17
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Industrial Revolution is almost here — in Davidson, that is. General Time Corporation's new factory, on Armour Drive just
four blocks from Davidson College, is nearing completion. The office is tentatively scheduled to open on October 3 and the
plant operations on Oct. 17. The Davidson branch will house not only a plant for making battery-movement and automotive clocks
but also the division headquarters for this area. Other division headquarters are located at York, Pa.; Athens, Ga.; and Gadsden,
Ala. This division is officially called the Precision Parts and Products Division.

Only the works for the clocks will be manufactured here. These will be sold to other manufacturers, such as Westclox
and Seth Thomas, divisions of General Time Corporation, who finish the clocks. At the present, the company is training workers
at its temporary headquarters in Cornelius, N.C. There will be about 200 office workers and 600 plant workers. About 50
workers are being moved here from Athens, Ga., where the plant was originally located, but the rest will be hired
from people that apply from this area.

Visiting Scholars’ Plans Announced

Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, associate professor of history, announced the names and schedule of the Visiting Scholars for 1966-67 this
week. The Visiting Scholar Program has been arranged by the college under the sponsorship of the college. The schedule of
speakers and their major fields are:Oct. 12, Dr. Alvin Boscoff, sociology; Oct. 25, Dr. Douglas Steere, Bible; Nov. 1, Dr.
Richard Andree, math; and Nov. 7, Dr. Wallace Fowlie, French. During the second semester: Mar. 21, Dr. Alfred Romer, biology;
and Apr. 6, Dr. Krister Stendhal, Bible.

The Piedmont University Center. "A problem to get workers," said Athol Webb, division manager of industrial engineering. "We are a
little behind schedule in moving into the plant, but not very far, and we expect to move in as soon
as possible." Because there is a housing shortage in Davidson, most of the new workers are living in Charlotte and
other neighboring towns.

The books reshuffled to take better advantage of the space. Several offices in Chamber Building have been reworked and new
offices have been added in the gym. Visitors to the school will be shown a new face when they enter
the College Union after renovation is completed. A space for a receptionist is being constructed in the front where the
present Union desk is located. Shutters will be placed across the windows near the television in the lounge and on
the French door leading out onto the patio. The television area will be built out and bookshelves added in the
rear of the room. Shutters will also be added in the ballroom. A new office has been partitioned for the
use of the assistant director of the Union.

In other work, steam lines to Martin Science Building have been renovated. Shrubbery has been planted, and gravel walks have
been built in front of the Fine Arts Building. Two professors' homes have been completely renovated and three more have
had partial work done. New dugouts have been added to the baseball field and grass has been planted.

Davidson Post Office Out Of Mail Boxes

Post office boxes in Davidson have run out. Upperclassmen who failed to renew their boxes last year have lost out
entirely, and freshmen were able to get boxes only by doubling up. Plans have been made for the addition of
600 boxes by the beginning of the second semester. Postmaster W. B. Mayhew says he expects this to be adequate
for another five years if the community continues to grow at its present rate. Mayhew pointed out that the growth
is not predictable, because several new businesses are expected to move into the area in the near future.

Last year Davidson became a first-class post office district, because of the amount of revenue taken in during the preceding
year. Last year the amount was barely reached again, and the first-class rating was retained. This year window service is
from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on each weekday, including Wednesday. They close at noon on Saturday. Mail is boxed
three times daily at 8 a.m., 10 a.m., and 4:30 p.m. Outgoing mail leaves at 8:15 a.m., 10:15 a.m., and
5:15 p.m. Open 'til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday.

The Hub

Applicants who were accepted at Davidson last spring but ultimately chose another school have indicated "no earth-shaking reasons" for their
decision, according to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions. White reported this week that the results of questionnaires recently sent
to boys who rejected Davidson showed that no specific factor of the College was the cause. Over 80 percent of
the some 190 applicants who went elsewhere answered the questionnaire, which was prompted in part by a slight drop in
this year's enrollment of accepted applicants.

The questionnaire was divided into two parts. The freshmen were asked to evaluate, using a uniform scale, 19 factors for
both Davidson and the school they eventually chose. The factors fell into general categories:

—The admissions procedure, including date school sent acceptance letter, contact with college representatives and correspondence from admissions office.
—The present student body, including students' personalities, academic strengths and attitudes about their school.
—The school itself—its size, environment, faculty, programs and religious affiliation, if any.

The results indicated that a majority were impressed with Davidson, he said. "A few were quite critical, but these were
not consistent. We found no consistent low rating in any factor we could change." The survey also showed that the
boys who spurned Davidson are now in schools that are "among the best in the country like Princeton, Harvard, Duke
and Sewanee." Among those rejecting the College were about two-thirds of last year's scholarship finalists. "We were disappointed, and that
was one of the reasons we sent out the questionnaire," White said.

This year's freshman class has 267 members—about 10 below the norm. White pointed out that the admissions office works in
terms of total student body enrollment, not class size. The enrollment figure was met.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
September 23, 1966
Page Three

By ROBBIE HOOKER
News Editor

This year, as last, the admissions office will send out acceptance letters on only one date—April 14. In addition, the
early decision program, in which students are contacted in late November, will be used again. Around 25 percent of the
freshmen are usually accepted through early decision.

PRAM To Play Host To Ecuadorian Group

In approximately a week, Davidson College's Project of the Americas club will host a visiting group of Ecuadorian students. These
students have been touring the southern and mid-eastern United States in an effort to observe as many aspects of American
life and culture as possible.

Freshman Council Discusses Plans

Freshman competition in Homecoming projects and intramurals, plus plans for Freshman Parents' Day Nov. 12 were discussed by the Freshman
Council in their first meeting of the year Wednesday afternoon. Members of the newly elected council include Marvin Bethune, Bill
Bowman, Pat Bray, Sid Cottingham, Jack Crumbley, Mac Davis, Dale Durham, Ben Garrett, Dan Herd, Norman Hurwitz, Todd Hutton, George
Johnson, Dave McClintock, Ben Moore, Pat Mullen, Charles Newton, John Puckett, George Robinson, Wray Stephens, Dave Wasserman and Danny White.

The group of five boys and three girls are presently in New York and will be visiting the southern and
mid-eastern United States. The students will leave New York on Sunday. Their trip to Davidson will be made through the
Appalachian Mountains. They plan to make stops at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. The Ecuadorian
students will be in the Charlotte area for two weeks. They will be observing various parts of Davidson life and
curriculum. Local high schools and places of importance in Charlotte are included in their tour.

Board Of Trustees Picks 3 Members

Dr. D. Grier Martin, president of the college, has announced the election of three Davidson alumni to the Board of
Trustees. Walter L. Lingle, Jr. of Cincinnati, Ohio, the present president of the Board of Trustees and national co-chairman of
the Ford Challenge Fund, was re-elected. New trustees are Dr. Samy R. Spencer and Hubert N. Cannon. Dr. Spencer, a
former Davidson dean of students, is president of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Va. Cannon, a former Rhodes Scholar, is
an attorney in Raleigh.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Maybe you obey stop signs and signals. Some drivers don’t. So never assume the right-of-way blindly. Protect yourself by driving
defensively. If someone follows you too close, don't speed up. Slow down a little and encourage him to pass. Remember,
being in the right isn't enough. You could be dead right. Watch out for the other guy.

Published to save lives in cooperation with The Advertising Council and the National Safety Council.
