FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1966

VENI, VICI, VINCI

From Bill Council’s lips come these words, and not since Julius Caesar said them have they been more applicable than
to Davidson’s chances in the Southern Conference tennis tournament beginning Monday at Richmond. From Council all the way down, this
tennis team is stronger than the Southern Conference champs of last year, and to complement this improvement, the other eight
conference teams as a whole are weaker than last year when Harry Fogleman’s men brought home the bacon by a
28-27-25 margin over George Washington and The Citadel.

This year the tournament is being held at Byrd Park, a city of Richmond facility, which was described to me
with a groaning “adequate.” When your home courts have been nominated for the best in the South to World Tennis
magazine, would you want to play in a city park? But not even inferior playing conditions can keep Davidson from
rewinning the trophy Wednesday.

SKUNKED SIX OF SEVEN

Fogleman noted the obvious reason, 62 wins out of 63 conference matches, to seed every Davidson entry number one in
its division, with the exception of Council, who dropped a match to GW’s Tom Morgan. Morgan will most likely be
seeded in the number one singles. Everybody else has a 7-0 conference record. Esmond Phelps is the best number two
singles man in the conference, and Fogleman says, “(Pinky) Hatcher is stronger than (Bill) Schutt, our number three man last
year. Dick Hurd had three labs per week last year, and as a consequence, he never did reach his peak.
This year he does his only lab early and is an improved number four singles player. Peter Parrott is one
of the best doubles players.

Fogleman Lauds Net Team As ‘One Of My Best Ever’

By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Assistant Sports Editor

“This is one of the best tennis teams I’ve ever coached at any school because of its overall depth.” Coach
Harry Fogleman expressed satisfaction at the work and overall attitude of his squad. One of the best things about this
team is that it’s so even all the way through. We can always throw in a substitute and not get
hurt. And so, we should be all right in the tournament. “Also, we’ve been together since February 7, and never
have there been any arguments or problems that I have had to speak to them about.”

EYE-OPENING STATISTIC

Led by captain Bill Council, the netters have established an eye-opening statistic in conference play this year. Of 63 individual
matches in conference play, the ’Cats have won 62. “That must be some kind of a record,” added Fogleman. Only
four of these matches went to three sets, the rest being straight-set matches. This season’s varsity squad is composed of
Council, Esmond Phelps, Peter Parrott, Dick Hurd, Sam Hatcher, Woody Faulk, Dan Hearon, David Jennings, Jeff Frank, Frank Bass, and
Geordie Mueller.

TOP FIVE OR SIX TEAMS

Fogleman related that this year’s squad is “one of the top five or six teams I’ve ever coached in my
25 years as a tennis coach. The only teams to compare with this one were the ’39 and ’40 Duke
teams, the '50 Florida team, and the ’60 and ’61 Cincinnati teams. “There were some better players on those other
teams, but this team compares very favorably overall.”

INTERESTING SEASON

Fogleman looked back on the season and remarked, “This has been a real interesting season, and in comparison with previous
seasons, the competition has been better. The funny thing about it is that the matches were mostly either one extreme
or the other—either 9-0 or 5-4 with few exceptions.” Asked to review the season, Peter Parrott answered, “We lost to
two good teams (Rollins and Clemson) during the season. But, overall, we were not really extended, and I think we
did a good job. We’re looking forward to more tough schools in the future.” The season is coming to a
close. Yet one could hear in the distance the ever-present voice of Phelps: “Coach, what’s wrong?”

Foglemen Waltz Through Three

The title-bound Fogleman put the big ace on two opponents this week and dropped only one game to a third
as they extended their record to 20-3. Emory was the first to go, as the big ’Cats blanked their guests
here Saturday, 9-0. Tuesday again saw the big guns open up and blast the opposition off the courts. This time
the foe was Erskine, who fared no better than Emory. The Blue Devils of Duke came down to Davidson Thursday,
but it was the ’Cats that did the spooking. The Foglemen won all the marbles in the singles competition, but
the visitors were back in business by doubles time. Duke salvaged a win in the number two doubles match by
defeating Esmond Phelps and Pinky Hatcher 1-6, 6-4, 4-6. Blue Devils’ Fred Turner and Doug Jones took the first set
in the number one doubles match over Bill Council and Peter Parrott by 6-3. A rally by Council and Parrott
tied the match at one set apiece, but darkness forced a halt to the action. Both teams agreed to call
the match a draw making the winning margin 7-1. The ’Cats wrap up their regular season tomorrow with a match
against Wake Forest. The Deacons rank low in the ACC standings, and fell to Duke earlier this season 8-1.

TENNIS COACH HARRY FOGLEMAN

Scott Switches Furman Game

Athletic Director Tom Scott announced last week that the ’Cats will play their second game of the 1966 football season
in Memorial Stadium in Charlotte. The game will pit the ’Cats against conference rival Furman under the lights at 8
p.m. on Sept. 24. The game was originally set as an afternoon game on the Davidson campus on that same
date, but following a meeting of the college athletic council this week, the change was announced.

Betas Bypass Near Defeat

By GEOFF BIRKHEAD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Betas continued their winning ways and are still perched on top of the IMAC softball standings as the schedule
rolls into the final week of the season. Their win over the Nus Thursday left them 9-0 so far with
only four games left. The Betas, led by four doubles off the bat of ace hitter Frank Bass and despite
the wildness of pitcher Frank Powell, shellacked the Nus 18-9. The Pikas nearly spoiled the Betas’ clean slate Tuesday in
a close game that ended with the latter on top by 8-7. Johnny Gresham’s mound antics dazzled the league champs,
as flashy fielder Bill Briggs played the Venus flytrap bit. The Pikas, who stayed cool most of the game, were
up by one in the eighth, but were blasted out of the winner's circle by the batting.of Beta Charlie Turner.
Pika manager Sonny Graves' comment and analysis of the game will appear in the next edition of the National Enquirer.
This week the Pi Kapps got with the Pepsi Generation and annihilated the Indies 17-6 and the second place KA’s
8-5. The KA's paced the field to the tune of 5-2 going into the sixth, but the Pi Kapp batters
rallied to win the game in extra innings. Figuring big in the win was Joe Scales’ home run, Larry Jones’
pitching, and the ace fielding of KA Tim “Butter-hands” Croft. Meanwhile, the other teams were playing like the Pi Kapps
usually do. The ATO’s jumped off to early leads of 5-0 and 4-0 over the Gams and E’s respectively. Despite
effective hurling by Tau pitcher Mike Payne, both leads were overcome and the Taus went down to two straight defeats.
The Gams followed suit after this victory and lost to the erratic SPE’s 16-14. Doug Rhymes was instrumental in both
games, as he helped the Gams to both their victory and defeat. The usually strong Kappa Sigs lost to both
the E’s 16-4 and the Machis 6-3. Dan Hearon was his usual sparkplug self for the Sigs, as he successfully
smashed a Machi bat after fanning the breeze. The Pikas downed the Machis 4-2 this week and are looking ahead
to today's battle with the ATO’s. Bob O'Kelly continues to spark the Pika offense. Thus the season enters the final
week. Nearly everyone agrees that in IMAC softball, it’s not how you play that counts, but how your luck is
running.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

...around and is by far the best number five singles man in the tournament. Sophomore Woody Faulk beat out conference
number six singles champ Geordie Mueller. The strength does not end there. Dan Hearon has never even lost a game
to a conference opponent in two matches, and David Jennings is 3-0 for conference play. Fogleman had a lot of
trouble with doubles last year, but with Council and Phelps back and the strengthening of the other two doubles teams
with the addition of Hatcher and Faulk, Davidson should be seeded number one in all of these divisions. One way
to observe the dominance of this Davidson squad over the rest of the field is through comparative scores. Keeping in
mind the one-point tournament victory, note these two match results in 1965. We beat The Citadel by one point, 5-4,
and beat VMI, 7-2. Everyone this year fell 9-0 except for GW’s 8-1 loss last month.

GW NEXT BEST
George Washington is the best of the rest. And they may stay right behind us thanks to the scoring system
the conference uses. Each match is worth one point, so the winner of a division gets only a point more
than the runner-up. The GW team we played was not at full strength and Faulk noted, “I think we'll be
playing a better GW team this time. They will have their number two and six men.” But we should pick
up points in every division because we cannot face the Colonials in but one of the two preliminary matches we
must play. Another team who may challenge is William and Mary, the only conference team we have not played. The
Indians fell to GW, 5-4. VMI and East Carolina are strong in spots but weak in too many others.

STRENGTH IN NUMBERS
The strength of this team lies in its depth of excellence. Superstars do not win tennis championships singlehandedly because every
division win carries the same value. Fogleman stressed the competition among squad members as a key to this year’s success.
Our lower positions are where we dominate the conference and where we will win the tournament. The number three through
six singles and the number three doubles team, Faulk and Parrott, should give us 20 points “without much more than
getting out of bed,” according to Fogleman. The other points must come from Council and Phelps and the number two
doubles team. You can never tell about Phelps but he still wins despite himself.

WE WILL WIN
Maybe the picture has been painted too rosy. Balls do bounce the wrong way. But even all the balls in
the Spalding Bros. factory cannot bounce Davidson out of the driver’s seat in this tournament. We are just too strong
everywhere.

Bills Ink Terry To Pro Contract
Senior Jim Terry has signed a pro contract with the Buffalo Bills. If he makes the team this summer, Terry
will work as a kicking specialist in the Bills’ lineup. “I'm very happy about the whole thing,” commented Terry. “I
can’t reveal the amount of the contract, but I can say that the arrangement was very satisfactory.” Continued Terry, “The
only part of the contract that is really binding as of now is the part that says I can’t try
out for any team except the Bills. I still have to make the team.” Last season Terry set the new
conference record for consecutive PAT’s, placing 35 right between the posts in his college career. Terry missed his 36th try
in his next to last college game, but in the last clash Terry kicked two more to wrap up his
career record at 37 for 38. According to NCAA records, only two players, Bobby Holloway of Tennessee and Pete Bower
of Alfred, have posted perfect season records of over 25 PAT's. Terry, a pre-med major from Peterstown, W. Va., served
as president of the IFC and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

Anything goes when you wear “IT’S CRICKET” men’s toiletries. Try it and see. (Girls, give it and find out!) After-shave,
4 oz., $3.50. Cologne, 4 oz., $4.50. Available in drug stores and cosmetic departments of department stores. Another fine product
of Kayser Roth.
