VOL. LVI The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1966 NATIONAL EXPERT ADVISES Location Of Possible New Library Metcalf had several sites to tour now formed
by Chambers COOK QUESTIONS TICKET POLICY (See Page Four) NUMBER TWELVE Discussed By BOB DUNHAM Staff Writer In all of
the discussion which has been going on concerning a new library on campus, one of the questions left unanswered has
been that of where to build it, if and when it is decided to build one. This has been the
object of much discussion from the outset of the new library idea. Recently it was the part of an evaluation
by several experts on the subject, who worked with the college administration in appraising several proposed locations. About a month
ago the college called upon Charles F. Gillette, landscape architect for the Davidson campus, to evaluate each of the proposed
sites. Gillette, who now lives in Richmond, Va., spent a day on campus talking with President D. Grier Martin and
Director of the Library Chalmers G. Davidson. After discussing the feasibility of the several possible locations, Gillette selected the area
of the present guest house and the president's home as the best site. The college then invited Keyes D. Metcalf,
the highest authority on planning libraries in the country, to visit the campus and offer his appraisal. Metcalf, author of
Planning Academic and Research Library Buildings, is the retired director of the Harvard Library in Cambridge, Mass. COURTESY APPRECIATED Rhubarb
Loses Out In Food Tastes Poll Despite an overwhelming condemnation of stewed rhubarb, the results of the ARA Slater Dining
Service Survey taken earlier this fall indicate general approval of the Union food. Bill Beckham, manager of the Slater service
at Davidson, said that he was very pleased with the surveys. “The comment section (the section which dealt with questions
concerning the service in general) was pleasing with two exceptions, cleanliness and food temperature,” Beckham commented. In other items, 80
per cent of the students liked the courtesy of the employees. The appearance of the food was also favored by
80 per cent of those questioned; 81 per cent favored cafeteria service. The seconds policy was backed by only 26
per cent of the students. Beckham stated that the survey serves as a “means of communication with the students. It
gives them an opportunity to express their views so I can determine their needs and desires. It also informs me
of unexpected problem areas.” The manager said that the Davidson student “has a more sophisticated knowledge of food than students
at most other colleges. The Davidsonian eats a more epicurean diet.” Dr. Dennis Doolin, a faculty member of the Hoover
Institution for the Study of Peace, Revolution and War at Stanford University and an authority on Red China, forecast little
change in Red Chinese foreign policy for the next few years. Doolin is presently on leave working with the U.S.
government in Washington. Late next spring, after a short stay at Stanford, he will leave for Southeast Asia for more
than two years of work. While at Davidson, Doolin, the second of this year's YMCA Great Issues speakers, gave two
talks and answered questions both at a coffee hour and after both talks. During his principal talk in the evening,
he spoke on Red China's foreign policy. He predicted that the main goals of Chinese leaders will not change appreciably
within the next few years. Delving into Red China's history, he cited the constant threat of U.S. aggression as a
main factor in the formulation of Chinese foreign policy, a threat which first became obvious when the U.S. crossed the
38th parallel during the Korean War. Although the Red Chinese army is large and well trained, its navy and air
force are relatively weak. Thus the army can merely serve as a deterrent to U.S. actions in Southeast Asia and
cannot drive out U.S. forces completely. He attributed the rift between China and Russia to differences in “objectives and ideology.”
The turning point in this shift, according to Doolin, “was in 1959, when Khrushchev came to Peking with kind words
for the Americans, after his Camp David meeting with President Eisenhower.” By BOB BUCHANAN Staff Writer group, appraise in light
of construction costs, availability of space, and convenience to students. His final evaluation has now been received by President Martin.
The contents of the letter, however, have not been disclosed. The contents will be made public following a library committee
meeting sometime next week. It is safe to assume, however, that the Metcalf letter contained a complete evaluation of all
possible locations. There were several suggestions being considered. Davidson advocated construction of the library across Concord Road, just to the
east of Building, the Martin Science Building, and the present library. Construction on this site would involve the removal of
three homes which presently occupy the space. Davidson was quick to point out, however, that the college presently owns two
of the three houses under discussion. This site, he observed, is convenient to Chambers Building, and there is more than
adequate space to build back from the road. Due to a slope off the road, construction would not involve excessive
excavation. Under this plan an extra wing forming an "H", with the Babcock wing being the crossbar. Construction costs for
the extra wing would naturally be lower than those for an entirely new library. Metcalf is believed to have further
suggested the possibility of filling in the spaces between the "H" in the present library to form a square, should
space become a problem. At least one faculty member favored a location in Jackson Court. Construction on this site would
entail removal of three of the old fraternity houses on the northern end of the court. during his visit, is
the one which seems to have drawn the most support. This would place the library just north of the Cunningham
Fine Arts Center. The guest house would necessarily have to be rebuilt in another location, and possibly also the president’s
home, if the construction is carried out in accordance with Gillette’s recommendation. This location would be the most convenient to
the students of all of those proposed. It would be nearer to the dormitories than the Jackson Court site, Concord
Road location, and the present site. In the event that a new location is selected, the present type, according to
Davidson. Since the contents of the Metcalf letter will not be disclosed until next week, any announcement of a definite
site would be speculation. With all of the proposals being considered, however, and due to the support given to the
Gillette selection, it is a fairly safe assumption that Metcalf's evaluation contained favorable comments for the guest house location. One
authority is yet to be consulted before the final selection of a site is announced. He is J. Russell Bailey,
an architect from Orange, Va. He will be consulted on matters such as construction the infirmary. According to him, this
would complete an open Orange juice which polled93 per cent led the appetizer. Stewed rhubarb collected a poor 10 per
cent. Beef sirloin was the favorite meat with 97 per cent approval. Only one person could not decide whether he
liked steak or not. Stuffed peppers made the poorest showing of the day. Welsh rarebit. The two most popular vegetables
were baked potatoes and oven-browned potatoes. In the breakfast category, doughnuts were ahead of scrambled eggs, French toast, and hot
cakes. Bran flakes were the most unpopular item for breakfast with 41 per cent approval.

Also under consideration was an addition to the present library. The guest home site, proposed by Gillette House president's library,
will probably become an administration office of some costs and various possible designs.

Penalties for violations of the drinking rule were reduced by action at the regular faculty meeting Tuesday. The original rule,
which read, “A student will ordinarily be suspended...” for a drinking violation, was changed by the faculty to, “A student
will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including suspension if he is found guilty of violating any of
the following regulations...” The motion was introduced by Dr. Max Polley and was carried without opposition or debate Tuesday. The
change goes into effect immediately. According to Richard C. Burts, dean of students, the rule will have the effect “of
easing up the situation in that the executive committee will have available to it a wider range of penalties, and
we think and hope this will be an improvement in the situation.” “We hope that the rule will be a
meaningful guide rather than a contest of what you can get by with,” said Burts. However, one faculty member said
he thought that stricter enforcement would produce a worse situation. “I mean,” he said, “all the executive committee will do
is hear cases on drinking.” Administration sources said that the faculty had a “general feeling that enforcement is in order”
when it accepted the rule. The sources also said that “students felt the faculty did not mean what it said.”
The drinking rule change is an outgrowth of a recent conviction of a freshman for violating the rule.

Discussing the controversy now raging among U.S. officials as to whether the U.S. ought to give official recognition to Red
China and admit them to the U.N., Dr. Dennis Doolin suggested that Red China probably would not join the U.N.
if given the opportunity. First, Mao would demand that Taiwan be condemned as the aggressor in the Korean War. Finally,
the U.N. must be reformed from top to bottom, giving more importance to African nations. “Failure to get in the
U.N.,” he concluded, “will not lead them to abandon their insurgency tactics in any way.” Red China also demands that
it become the official China. They want to reestablish the old boundaries of China, including Taiwan. They are apparently concerned
that the people infinitely removed from the U.N. and all other major international organizations. “Given his perception of the outside
world,” said Doolin, “Mao is pursuing his goals logically and is certainly willing to take risks to achieve them. He
is obviously seeking to make all Southeast Asia communist. Because his goals are stable, they will remain unchanged at least
until the next generation takes over the government.”

A recent controversial N.C. Supreme Court decision against “brown bagging” will prohibit hard liquor consumption at off-campus parties unless they
are held in a private residence. The court ruled Nov. 30 that possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any
place other than a private residence is illegal. The decision prohibits “brown bagging,” the practice of carrying liquor into an
establishment as well as the locker system of storing liquor in a public place. Liquor can now only be transported
legally to a private dwelling from an ABC store in a total amount of less than one gallon and with
the seal unbroken. “There will be strict enforcement of the law. Any party outside of a private home where hard
liquor is served will be illegal,” the ABC spokesman said. Certification of the State Supreme Court interpretation of the ABC
Act of 1947 is pending in Mecklenburg Superior Court due to an injunction brought against enforcement officers to restrain them
from enforcing the ABC act. Superior Court certification will determine whether the law becomes effective Dec. 14 or after Jan.
1, a Charlotte member of the ABC enforcement staff told THE DAVIDSONIAN. “We solicit the students' cooperation in complying with
the law,” the ABC spokesman commented.

LOOKING FOR A MEAL
Junior Year Abroad students in Germany were feted to a Thanksgiving meal at the Consolidated Mess in Panndicton Barracks, Giessen,
Germany. Peering through decorations at the chow line are Joe Stephenson, Olaf (?), Bob Finlayson, and Mason.
