FRESHMEN SET RECORD FOR TEST FAILURES (See Page Seven)

VOL. LVI

A new work-study program that will double the college's annual spending on student employment is now in operation. The new
program, sponsored jointly by Davidson and the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW), is providing employment for some
100 students in addition to those already holding regular jobs. Ninety per cent of the program's funds come from a
one-year (renewable) federal grant of $45,000 approved by HEW last spring. The College will finance the other 10 per cent
this year, in addition to maintaining the old student work program at an annual cost of about $33,000. Next year
the College will provide 25 per cent.

Under the federal guidelines, HEW will furnish $35,000 for on-campus, term-time employment and another $10,000 for summer employment both on
and off campus. The program is being administered by the college’s Department of Admissions and Financial Aid under Director H.
Edmunds White. A student is eligible for the program if he needs financial assistance and his needs have been verified.

Council To Share Funds With Union

The Davidson College Social Council has allocated one third of its funds for this year to the Union Social Committee.
Vince Foster, Social Council President, reported that the Social Council gave the Union $9000. According to Foster, the purpose of
this relocation of funds is to "allow the Union to plan and finance social activities for non-dance and non-concert weekends."
The Union financed the freshman mixer with Converse College. The Social Council, however, will still have control over concert and
dance weekends. The first concert weekend is October 1 when Ian and Sylvia are featured entertainers.

When questioned about a possible merger between the Union and the Social Council, Foster said that "the idea has been
discussed." But he emphasized that "certainly nothing official has been decided."

IFC Contemplates Rush During First Meeting

Faculty visits to fraternity houses, meeting with freshmen about rush, and the National Interfraternity Conference were major items in the
year's first Interfraternity Council meeting.

ON THE SECOND TRY

Quips and Cranks Co-Editor Tom Thel snapped this picture of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. during his talk Wednesday night
at Johnson C. Smith University to a meeting of the United Presbyterian Church. Earlier in the evening, Davidsonian photographer Bill
Olson attempted to photograph Dr. King on his arrival at Douglas Airport, but Charlotte police, ever vigilant to protect the
civil rights leader, would not allow Olson, armed with his suspicious looking camera bag, near King. For an account of
King’s speech, see page 8.

Over Crowded Parking

The Bursar’s Office reports that only eight of the 368 permits purchased have been bought by freshmen. Jim Terry, assistant
dean of students, advised that all students read the traffic handbook carefully to prevent fines for careless mistakes. He requested
that all pay particular attention to article (5) of section b which gives instructions for bringing cars to the campus
for only a brief period of time. “This,” Terry pointed out, "is one of the most frequently violated regulations and
results in a ten dollar fine.” For other violations, the initial fine is one dollar; for all other fines or
for missing traffic court, the fine is three dollars.

Rumor has it that with the addition of freshman cars, there are more wheels on campus than parking spaces to
roll them into. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., asked about this rumor, replied, "Far from true. As a
matter of fact, the situation so far this semester is very comparable to this time last year. There are quite
a number more parking spaces available to students than needed.” Burts reported that 368 parking permits have been issued by
the Bursar’s Office so far this year. He also indicated that in a survey made about two years ago, it
was learned that there were between 500 and 600 spaces open to students. Burts added that at one time last
year, the number of issued permits reached 630, but that there were never 630 cars on campus at once. The
large number was due to permits issued for those cars kept on campus short periods of time only.

One change has been officially made in the student parking regulations, dealing with parking of freshman cars. Freshmen, allowed to
bring cars to Davidson for the first time last fall, were issued a special red parking permit and were required
to park across Main Street in the Fine Arts parking lot or north of the gym. This year they are
receiving the same permit as upperclassmen and are permitted to use any space available to students.

Registrar's Week Heavy But Normal

Registrar F. W. Hengeveld describes the first full week of classes as a "normal year." According to Hengeveld, changes have
to be made each year to correct mistakes in scheduling and to adjust language course placement. Davidson class enrollments this
year break down into 231 seniors, 222 juniors, 267 sophomores, and 266 freshmen.

After discussion about whether fraternities should have open house for faculty members, it was decided that IFC members should discuss
the idea with some professors. The idea of inviting the faculty members for informal meals was generally approved, and discussion
was delayed for two weeks to give time for obtaining feedback.not been met in other ways, according to White. Most
of the 100 job-holders are on general scholarship, and their employment is designed to supplement their scholarship funds, thereby meeting
their full financial needs. The work-study employees get $1.25 an hour, working eight to 12 hours per week. Most of
them are working in the library or at the Union, but some are elsewhere on campus—the student store, music department,
admissions office, athletic department, laundry, and others.

“The program benefits everybody involved,” said White. “For the student, it means up to $150 extra per year as well
as some excellent job experience. It helps the college because it provides additional student resources and it gets a lot
of necessary work here done.”

Holders of regular campus jobs will also be helped, White said, because the college can now raise their salaries, too—in
most cases 33⅓ per cent (from 75 cents an hour to a dollar). The recent pay-hike for hall counselors, one
group of regular job-holders, was made possible in part by the new program, according to White. He also said that
dormitory telephone chairmen, responsible for answering the phone at night, will get $40 salary raises to $150 a year.

“I’m quite enthusiastic about the whole thing,” he said, “and we’ve been pleased at the response to it.”

The National Interfraternity Conference has been scheduled for New Orleans the first week of December. The IFC plans to send
as many delegates as the budget allows. Several freshman assemblies are planned later in the semester to inform freshmen about
the rush system. In order to clarify the rules, the IFC said that freshmen are permitted in the upperclass dorms
after 7:30 p.m.

Discussion of the budget, which is normally held at the first meeting, was delayed for a week to allow more
preparation. There was a small surplus left from last year. Mike Booe, IFC president, announced the delay of the IFC
retreat until spring because of lack of planning time and the cancellation of a speaker. He said that “two weeks
seemed like an awful short time” to plan. Booe also announced the appointment of Jim McNair to the Judicial Board,
and suggested the Board meet for a dry run of its procedure before any cases come up.

GRADE AVERAGES UP DURING PAST YEAR (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWO

‘Spot Box’ Urged For Student Body

Getting off to an auspicious start, the Student Council meeting Monday was marked by three improvements over recent years: organization,
spirit, and interesting ideas.

Two proposals were especially impressive, one being a Davidson-Charlotte bus sponsored by the Council, and a student-wide “spot box” being
the second. The bus, brought up by Council President Chuck Matthews, is intended to help solve the obvious social dilemma
faced by many students, especially freshmen. Matthews reported that several faculty members and a great many students regard the social
problem at Davidson as “the worst thing here.” If the proposal could be worked out, the bus would run on
a scheduled basis, especially on the weekends, with stops at Queens and a downtown location. This could solve the transportation
problem faced by the many students without cars. The bus could also help for basketball games in Charlotte.

Matthews pointed out, however, that many problems would have to be worked out, primarily getting a bus. Insurance, drivers, and
an equitable way to decide who should travel would be other problems. It was suggested that the council work with
the Freshman Council on the project, with Johnny Gresham in charge.

The “spot box,” proposed by junior councilman Bill Watson, would be placed in book form at a central location, ideally
the library. Watson related that a similar process is in effect at Georgia Tech.

Vespers Alternative Sought

The Religious Life Committee is scheduled to meet today to discuss the opportunities for worship which should be made available
to the college community. This meeting will be a follow-up of the committee's decision last spring to suspend compulsory vespers
for a two-year trial period. Will Terry, pastor of the College Church, expressed his desire to get away from considering
what the committee proposes as simply a substitute for the vespers program.

“This is an entirely new approach and method,” he explained, “to provide an opportunity for students and faculty to worship.
It was evident that the old way was not doing the job.” Another area of discussion at the meeting will
concern faculty open houses on Sunday nights. Formerly, a certain number of faculty homes were open for student visitation immediately
following vespers. Terry indicated that a solution to this question would also be sought.

Watson pointed out that there is about one-half the student body not having access to “spots” (i.e., reviews and exams
from past years). “The spots are in most of the fraternity houses,” Watson said, “and therefore freshmen and independents are
at a disadvantage.” The council also agreed that a student-wide spot box could help improve the caliber of a professor's
reviews by forcing him to think up new or different questions. Watson pointed out that a professor probably could not
be forced to give copies of reviews to the “spot box,” but several professors had already approved of the system.
The “spot box” would work on a three-year rotation system, with the oldest review or exam being extracted every fourth
year.

In other business, the council set forth their aims in several areas, with the investigation of Christian commitment, academic scheduling,
social and recreational facilities, and student government reform being primary objectives. Finally, the Council wished it to be known that
anyone harboring any munitions should turn them in to Frank Murphy.
