Fogleman To Host Field In SC Tourney
By DON SEWELL
Sports Writer

Davidson's soccer team will play host to four other conference teams in the first annual Southern Conference Soccer Tournament. Squads from The Citadel, George Washington, West Virginia, and Furman will gather here for the championship tourney scheduled for November 17-19.

Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott explained that even though a conference tournament was played last year, this will be the first sanctioned conference championship event.

Coach Harry Fogleman, whose Wildcat booters finished second in last year’s tourney, said he recognizes varsity soccer as a “full-fledged conference sport.” The Foglemen will open the tournament action Thursday afternoon against The Citadel.

DAVIDSON
Pacing the ‘Cats will be Captain George Brown, Jordie Lang, and Mac Fiddner. More than half the ‘Cats’ starting 11 this year are sophomores. They include Jim Marrow, Joe Norton, Alec Neisler, and Bayard Miller. The inexperienced squad has had some difficulty with passing and teamwork. “We've played a couple really good games,” Fogleman said, “but we’ve been hampered considerably by injuries. We will not go into this tournament at full strength.” The ’Cats’ record stands at 4-6.

WEST VIRGINIA
Coach Greg Myers will bring his strong West Virginia team to the tourney after closing out his regular season with a 9-1 slate. The Mountaineers were able to defeat such powerful teams as Pitt, Penn State, and Ohio State. They won last year’s tournament, edging the ‘Cats in the final game, 3-1. Leading the attack for the Mountaineers will be Nick Ivahnenko, Ron McEachen, and Bill Lanza. Coach Myers’s squad is being considered for a berth in the NCAA tournament after the Southern Conference tourney. Coach Fogleman feels that this team will certainly be “the team to beat.”

CITADEL
The Citadel, a newcomer to the sport, will be led by Claude Saunders, R. C. Scales, Boo Adams, and R. P. Padgett. Coaching this new squad is Lt. Tom Froelich, who hopes to be a contender in the tournament, despite his team’s lack of experience. “We have a bunch of good individuals, and we hope to whip them into a team,” Froelich said. “We'll give anybody a contest.” The Bulldogs, who began their soccer program only last month, have not played any official games this year. Their team, whose defense is considered the strong point, will play its first inter-collegiate contest against the Wildcats in the opening of tournament action.

GEORGE WASHINGTON
The Colonials, now in their second soccer season, will also participate in the tournament. Posting a 1-5 record to date, GW has lost some close games. Coach Tom White commented on the tournament field: “It is doubtless that WVU will be the team to beat. They have their best team in years.” Carrying the Colonial hopes will be Geza Teleski, Gounuz Vassaf, and Miguel Saab, with several promising sophomores.

FURMAN
Rounding out the slate for the tournament will be the Furman Purple Paladins, coached by Pete Ashton. Presently holding a 3-3 record, the Paladins beat Davidson in their only conference tilt so far. Their team leader is Doug Sirinek, an all-conference player last year. Also outstanding for Furman are Dave Mitchell, Jim Elwood, and Lou Tate. Dr. Scott, the man in charge of the event, remarked that he would like to see a large following for the contests. “There should be some really fine soccer played,” he concluded.

Special Issue
The highlight of next week's DAVIDSONIAN sports section will be a special page devoted exclusively to the fast-approaching basketball season, compiled and edited by THE DAVIDSONIAN sports staff. Along with complete schedules and rosters for both the varsity and freshman teams, features of the page will include interviews with key players and new personalities and a capsule preview of each of the Wildcat varsity opponents. The Basketball 1966-67 issue will be one to which Wildcat basketball fans will want to refer throughout the season.

Poole Paces Wildcat Win In Fight-Marred Contest
Record-breaking quarterback Jimmy Poole set two new Southern Conference marks in the Wildcats’ 34-27 shellacking of Lehigh last Saturday. Poole broke Dan Henning’s total offense mark by increasing his total yardage to 1,621 yards—1,369 in the air. For his performance, he was named the Southern Conference Back-of-the-Week for the second time by the Associated Press. The 165-pound quarterback hit 21 of 36 aerials for 242 yards and two touchdowns against the Engineers. He also scored two touchdowns himself. Davidson still has two games left with Wofford and Wittenberg for Poole to add to his record.

“Certainly I feel a certain degree of pride in these records,” he said, “but I feel they belong more to the entire offensive unit. The same applies to the Back-of-the-Week award.”

Gridders Await ‘Cat-Dog Fight
A rough and tumble cat-and-dog-fight may develop for Davidson tomorrow, when the 'Cats tangle with Wofford’s Terriers in Spartanburg, S. C. Kickoff time is 2 p.m.

THE VERY LEAST
This won’t take long. There’s not too much one can say about tutors for athletes. What has not been said is that there is not a tutoring program open to each sport, but rather each sport must ask for funds in its budget for tutors, a request which has not been made outside of the football and basketball offices. The idea that the sports which make the money should be allowed to have tutorial programs does not make sense. The minor sports practice as much as the major ones. They do not have the opportunity in some cases to practice at night to avoid drill and lab conflicts. Ask Coach Harry Fogleman how it affects your team to lose three top players to studies.

If Davidson is going to have tutorial programs for athletes, it should be an Athletic Department project, and enough money should be budgeted to allow any athlete who needs help to get it. Most of us agree that athletic grants-in-aid should be limited to the sports that make the money: basketball and football. But for the evidently small amount of money being appropriated to this project, it is the least Davidson can provide for all of its representatives in the various sports to provide tutors for those who need them in order to compete. Needing a tutor does not mean the Admissions Office has lowered the standards to let a jock in. It means he is as serious about his studies as the sport he plays. Establishment of a department-wide tutorial program is not spreading the subsidization of athletes. It is a token admission that the minor sports are important in the athletic picture at Davidson. It is the very least we can do.

Whittlers Face Thinclad Meet
After finishing in the middle of the pack in the state cross-country meet, Coach Heath’s teams. John Puckett took second-place individual honors. Only UNC and Duke placed ahead of Davidson.

Sigs, Cannon I Capture Intramural Swimming
The Kappa Sigs and Cannon I, the pre-meet favorites, put on strong showings to capture the two first place positions in the IMAC swimming meet finals last Tuesday night. The Kappa Sigs were led to their one-sided victory by Lloyd Davidson, high point man for the fraternities. They placed in almost every event in racking up their winning total of 37 points. In the freshman division, Cannon I scored 54 points, doubling the total of their nearest competitor. They were led by a host of strong swimmers including Mac Davis, high point man for the freshmen. The Sigs were followed in the standings by the SAE’s with 21 points and the Pikas with 19. The freshmen runners-up were Watts with 27 points and East II with 23. Winners in the fraternity...Competition included Lindsay Davis (SAE), 100 yards freestyle; Lloyd Davidson (KS), 100 yard individual medley; Bobby Vagt (Pika), 50 yard freestyle; Frank Bass (Beta), diving; Lloyd Davidson (KS), 50 yard butterfly; Richard Bagby (KA), 50 yard breaststroke; Laurie Eckman (Phi Delt), 50 yard backstroke; Pikas (Ward, Vagt, Brown, Schroder), 200 yard freestyle relay; Kappa Sigs (Parrott, Doe, Davidson, Holt), 200 yard medley relay.

The most colorful of the season... one,” said Wofford Coach Conley T. Snidow, whose team has been on the road for the last five weeks. “It's kind of hard to get ready for a team like Davidson, but we're sure going to try.” Tomorrow's grid battle will be Homecoming for the Terriers, who sport a 4-3-1 record. Wofford has registered wins over Presbyterian, Frederick, Newberry, and Catawba, and a tie with Furman. The Terriers have bowed to Lenoir Rhyne, East Tennessee, and Appalachian.

The ‘Cats are no strangers to homecoming battles, having played in four already this season. The Dirty Thirty's only homecoming loss was at the hands of East Carolina. The Lehigh game was one of the last play of the game. “We expect Wofford to be pretty tough,” said Assistant Coach Dave Fagg, “but physically we are as ready as we ever have been with the guys that are here now.”

(Staff Photo by Weems)
ON THE BALL
Goalie Kem Andersen Snags Pembroke Shot

DC Seeks End To Losses Against Emory Tomorrow
By ROBERT ALBEE
Sports Writer

Coach Harry Fogleman’s win-hungry soccer team will go after victory number five tomorrow, when the ‘Cats play host to Emory. Game time is 3 p.m. Emory's eleven will be the last challenge for the Foglemen in the regular season. Davidson will enter the conference tourney next week with a losing record. Injuries and absences, which have plagued Davidson since early in the season, may be a factor in tomorrow's tilt. Fullback and returning letterman Willie Edmonds was forced to quit the team for academic reasons. Halfback-letterman John “Fuzzy” Flowers missed several games while making up labs, although he may return to the lineup for the Emory game. Also, inside Greg Simmons and wing Peach Coleman were injured in the Abbey game and may be absent tomorrow.

The ‘Cats have dropped their last two contests, losing first to Pembroke and then to Belmont Abbey, 1-0, Wednesday. Fogleman said this week he is still not sure whom he will draw from his pool of about 17 players to start for Davidson tomorrow. However, the lineup, he said, will probably include Alec Neisler, Simmons, Marrow, and Coleman on the line, with Brown, Jordie Lang, and Mac Fiddner at halfback. Powell and Joe Norton usually hold down the fullback spots, while Anderson mans the goal.

(Staff Photo by Olson)
TANKMEN TAKE DIVE
IMAC Swimmers Make Big Splash

Murphy, who was injured in the Citadel game and last week against Lehigh, will probably return to the lineup tomorrow. Piloting Wofford’s barrage will be quarterback Warren Phelps. Anchoring the defensive set-up for the Terriers will be co-captains and tackles Lanier Phillips and Don Williams.

The game, highlighted by rugged defensive play on both sides, went down the drain for Davidson when goalie Kem Anderson deflected an Abbey shot. The ball bounced off fullback Rob Powell's back and rolled into the goal. “They made two good goals,” said captain George Brown about Saturday's tumble, “but their last one was all our fault. They made our defense look like a sieve.”

Fogleman cited sophomore right wing Jim Marrow and center forward Bobby Lanier’s first appearance on the field in several games, having been sidelined at mid-season with leg injuries. The Foglemen bowed to Belmont Abbey Wednesday in overtime.

Katzen Korner, Krunch Klumsy Kraut Kagers
(Special to The Davidsonian)

DEGERNDORF, Germany — The 1966-67 Davidson basketball season exploded early when “Die Wildkatzen von Goethe Institut" defeated the German army base here, 48-13. Playing in the base gymnasium, which doubles as a soccer field, the 10-man team from the Institute included six Davidson students, two Swiss, one Nicaraguan, and an Englishman. The game ball was described as “a pregnant soccer ball,” by one Davidson student. Refereeing the game were a German and a Japanese, and the result was the use of “international rules.” The game resembled a European handball match, as the Army narrowly missed four drop-kick goals. Only three fouls were called because neither referee had a good knowledge of the rules. The play under the basket was a “goal line stand,” said Mason Stephenson, American defense specialist.

Leading the scoring for the victors was Stan Guest with 12; Holmes Eleazer and Bobby Myers with 10 apiece; Henry Wilmer, eight; and Mike Fitzpatrick with four points. On hand for the game were representatives of 30 different countries, the teachers and director of the Institute, and about 60 members of the German Army. Cheering for the international squad was provided by two red-haired Irish priests. Cries of “Down with South Africa and Rhodesia” by two Ghanaians livened the game. After the game, the director of the Institute treated both teams to a beer bust, in which the Davidson students were a poor second.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Color TV in Suites
Radio TV Music in each Room
Elevator
Waterloo Lounge
Roof Garden Pool
Dining Room with French and American Cuisine.
2 Phones in each Accommodation
377-5911
Area Code 704
615 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte, N. C.
Red Carpet Inn

MUCH OF EVERY DOLLAR ...
Of life insurance in force today was bought by men “who didn’t have the money.” Let me explain about Northwestern Mutual’s Graduated Premium Plan.
ROBERT T. STONE
N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1424
The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE Insurance Company
MILWAUKEE

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

Rugged in wear, masculine in look!
BOSTONIANS
For the man who wants and demands the “traditional” brogue look, we offer this beautifully crafted Bostonian in Cortina Calf. Add full leather linings, storm-welts, and stout heavy leather soles and heels, for the extra long wear that lowers your cost.
Bronze and Black 32.00
See our other fine Bostonian Selections
Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist:
John Ack Co.
Our 54th Year in Mooresville