PAGE FOUR JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD

26 Plan Foreign Study

By KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Twenty-six Davidson sophomores have been approved to spend their junior year abroad, the office of the Dean of Students announced this week. Fourteen will study at Marburg University in Marburg, Germany, and twelve will study at the University of Montpellier in Montpellier, France.

The group going to Marburg includes Tom Bellathy, Joe Dial, Bob Dewell, Holmes Eleazer, Mike Fitzpatrick, Woody Faulk, Bob Finlayson, Pete Gaskell, Stanley Guest, Bryce McLaughlin, Bobby Myers, Mason Stephenson, Henry Wilmer, and Jack Woodall.

The Montpellier group is composed of Joe Bentley, Chuck Byrd, M. L. Cannon, Heyward Carter, Jim McLaughlin, Paul Monk, Pete Roberts, Clark Sugg, John Thomas, Keith Williamson, Ed Winslow, and John Feuchtenberger.

RECEIVING CREDIT

School officials expressed optimism that these students, as well as the Davidson juniors in Europe at the present time, will avoid any difficulties in receiving credit for foreign work. Several students who went abroad last year have experienced such difficulties, particularly with the Bible Department. These students returned to Davidson and learned that they would be required to prepare a 10-15 page paper on the material covered in each Bible course before they could receive credit. The students had not known of this requirement while they were in Europe, according to a spokesman for the group, and several of them have had difficulty in completing the papers while keeping up with their regular work.

WORK NOT SPECIFIED

Dr. T. A. Williams said that the problem arose because “work necessary to get Davidson credit was not specified in advance.”

---

Departments Change Major Requirements

By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Changes in the requirements for a major and a major with honors in the English, German, and History Departments have been made. These changes, effective with the Class of 1968, will open the honors program to more students and should give the Davidson graduate a broader understanding of the field.

REQUIREMENTS

The requirement for participation in the honors programs of all departments has been lowered from a 2.25 average to a 2.0 to permit more students who want to take the honors programs to do so.

“The honors program puts the student more on his own,” explained Dr. Malcolm Lester, chairman of the History Department, “and we have more students here now than previously who want to work on their own and who can greatly benefit by it.”

HISTORY HONORS

The history major with honors will require 12 hours of seminars dealing with topics from ancient history, the Renaissance and Reformation, modern Europe and Asia, and other areas. In addition, it will require six hours of regular course work, six hours of senior tutorial and thesis, and a comprehensive examination.

“The thesis element, which is new to the honors program, is becoming possible now with the development of the library,” commented Lester. He also said the History Department would probably offer three seminars each semester. “I hope and believe the changes will increase the number of students taking honors work,” Lester continued.

MORE COMMENTS

Dr. Thomas Pinkerton, associate professor of German, commented that the German Department has long been interested in improving the honors program because “we have students here now who have been asking for this type of work.”

“If a small liberal arts college has students who are able and want to do research work, then it must provide the opportunity for them to do so,” Dr. Pinkerton continued.

A German major with honors will require German 31-32 and 36 (or respective equivalent), three hours from the senior thesis course with the remaining hours from various seminar courses, and a comprehensive examination. The senior thesis may give as many as six hours credit; however, three hours constitute the minimum requirement.

The English Department has not reorganized its honors program. Like the History and German Departments, this department has made alterations in course offerings and requirements for a major without honors.

ENGLISH MAJOR

The English major must divide the required 24 hours among at least four of six areas: English literature until 1660, English literature 1660-1800, English literature 1800-1900, American literature, 20th Century literature, and composition. According to Dr. William Cumming, chairman of the English Department, “The purpose is to ensure an English major will not be confined to too limited a course, but will major over the entire field of English literature.”

In addition to these changes, the department will add a semester course in the history of English drama. “There are type courses in poetry and the novel. This is an attempt to give proper consideration to drama,” Cumming commented.

HISTORY CHANGES

The History Department will in the future require regular majors to take six hours from each of the following categories: ancient, medieval, Renaissance and Reformation; English, modern European and Asian; and American.

“The regular history major has been changed to ensure better distribution of courses—and still ensure special concentration,” Lester commented. “Most history majors have done this, so this change is just a guarantee.”

“It will now be possible,” he added, “for the non-honors students to take the seminar courses if there is room.” There is a limit of 10 students per seminar.

COURSES DROPPED

In addition to the changes in the requirements, History 92 and History 111 have been dropped. The material formerly covered in these courses will be taught as History 43, 44. The German Department has renumbered German 31, 52, as 111, 112 in accordance with the recommendations of the Self-Study Committee report.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

not specified in advance. This was merely a mechanical error and it has been corrected.” A special form has been provided on which each department must now specify the requirements for credit in a particular course as soon as possible after the Davidson professors abroad send a list of the courses offered at the foreign universities.

Under this system, each student abroad will know what is expected of him before the opening of each semester.

EVIDENCE NECESSARY

Dr. D. D. Rhodes of the Bible department agreed that the primary difficulty lay in the students’ not knowing what was required of them, coupled with the time problem in preparing the papers. “But we had to have some evidence that they had done the work,” Rhodes stated. “We had hoped that we would receive an evaluation from their Hamburg professors, but we did not.” He said that the Bible department had no complaint with the quality of instruction that the students received in Europe, commenting that “most of the students seemed to get something out of their courses.”

“I am definitely in favor of the program,” Rhodes added. “It is a broadening educational experience. The problem was just something that goes along with the first year of a program.”

INADEQUACY IN SCIENCE

Williams mentioned that another problem faced by the program is the lack of science courses and facilities in the European schools, which makes it difficult for a science major to participate in the program. “Of course, a student can take some courses in summer school and make the trip with no difficulty,” Williams noted. Four of the sophomores in next year’s group plan to attend medical school.

Dr. Claude U. Broach from Charlotte will speak in chapel Thursday on the closing eight days of the Vatican Council in December, which Broach attended as a “visiting theologian.”

RAMSEY LEWIS TRIO

Kicking off Midwinters this weekend will be a concert by Ramsey Lewis and his jazz trio tonight at 8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Also appearing with Ramsey Lewis will be comedian Dick Davy. (See story on page one.)

Vatican Observations

Dr. Broach is the senior minister at the St. John’s Baptist Church in Charlotte. He is originally from Athens, Ga., where his parents were members of the faculty of the University of Georgia. He attended Georgia Tech for one year and completed his BA at the University of Georgia. His theological training was at Southern Baptist Seminary in Louisville, Ky. Dr. Broach is a noted lecturer concerning teenagers and their problems and in areas of Christian family life. He is married and is the father of two daughters and a son. He is the author of Dr. Frank, a biography of the late Frank Hartwell Leavell, founder of the Baptist Student Union in Southern Baptist life.

“Let's unplug the computer, boys! A lot of people believe that someday computers will do all their thinking for them. Well, a funny thing is going to happen on the way to the future: You're going to have to think harder and longer than ever. Computers can’t dream up things like Picturephone service, Telstar® satellite, and some of the other advances in communications we have made. Of course, we depended on computers to solve some of the problems connected with their development. But computers need absolutely clear and thorough instructions, which means a new and tougher discipline on the human intelligence. And it will take more than a computer to create a pocket phone the size of a matchbook, let’s say... or find a practical way to lock a door or turn off an oven by remote telephone control, or to make possible some of the other things we'll have someday. It takes individuals... perhaps you could be one... launching new ideas, proposing innovations and dreaming dreams. And someday, we're going to have to find a way to dial locations in space. Makes you think.”

Bell System
American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies
An Equal Opportunity Employer. (M/F)

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1966

MIDWINTERS SCHEDULE

FRIDAY
Concert — Chambers Auditorium
Ramsey Lewis Trio—Dick Davy. 8:00-10:30 P.M.
Dance — Morrison Room. The Collegiates. 10:30-2:30 A.M.
Movie—“Sons and Lovers” Wildcat Room. 11:00 P.M.
Breakfast—Union Dining Room. 2:30-3:30 A.M.
Tickets $1 in advance at Union Desk.

SATURDAY
Juke Box—Union. All Afternoon
Cartoon Caravan—Morrison Room 2:30 P.M.
Featuring “The Road Runner.” 5:30-7:00 P.M.
Union Restaurant: Grand Opening. 8:00-12:00 P.M.
Lloyd Price Dance — Lake Norman House of Music.
Movie — “Treasure of the Sierra Madre.” Morrison Room. 12 Midnight

TASTEE FREEZ
Pizza --- Sandwiches --- Ice Cream
Closed Mondays
Tues.-Thurs. 10 A.M.-8 P.M.
Fri. and Sat. 10 A.M.-10 P.M.
Sunday 2 P.M.-9 P.M.
CORNELIUS

At least half the students working 13 weeks earned $1500 or more. And here’s what others earned... even those working fewer weeks:
1 out of 2 earned $194 or more a week.
1 out of 3 earned $133 a week.
1 out of 4 earned $138 or more a week.

You can earn as much or more this summer... and you need no sales experience. You're carefully trained and work on proven routes where people have been buying Good Humor for years. Everything supplied, free... there's nothing to invest.

HOW TO QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW
1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver’s license... and must be able to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to schedule you for our campus visit.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiane — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.