MARGARET MEAD TO APPEAR WEDNESDAY (See Page Three)

VOL. LV

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1966

FUZZBALLERS GO FOR SECOND STRAIGHT (See Page Five)

NUMBER TWENTY-NINE

Trustees’ Action Recommends Two-Year Vespers Suspension

Lingle Is New Head OF Trustees

Walter L. Lingle Jr., 1928 graduate now living in Cincinnati, and son of Davidson's 11th president, was elected Trustees president for a four-year term at yesterday’s meeting and expressed his desire to maintain the individual atmosphere of Davidson College although not always by the same methods. Lingle is replacing J. McDowell Richards, who served as Board President for 26 years. A stipulation passed by the Alumni Association makes its 12 Trustees ineligible for service after holding office for three four-year terms.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

ASSISTANT DEAN OF STUDENTS TOMMY COVINGTON

Open End Presents Discussion Of Student-Administration Relationship

Covington Discusses Position Of Students

By AL VARNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Speaking at Open End Wednesday night, Assistant Dean of Students Tom Covington discussed many facets of student-faculty-administration relations. He was particularly emphatic about misconceptions students have about administrators, teachers and even other students. He stated that criticism of Davidson is entirely too prevalent and that false opinions about every aspect of Davidson spread, “not through a grape vine; it's a kudzu vine.” Asked what can be done about this, Covington explained the need for individual students to verify any opinions they receive through “the students party line” by talking frankly to the people in question. “Have you ever asked a teacher, ‘Are you really as bad a guy as everybody says?’”

On the positive side, Covington seemed confident in the present student body at Davidson and even more optimistic about “the next five or 10 years.” He foresees — shades of Burns and Mekas! — a new type of student, “the academically oriented student.” This new individual will accept more responsibility in student government affairs and will “lift out the potential of the fraternities just because he'll want to, not to satisfy the faculty or anybody else. Ideally, one (intellectual) program unique to every chapter would be good.”

Covington also cited the need for student help in making school policy. He mentioned that “the great gap between students and administrators is between the ideal and the practical application of policy. The student is concerned with how something will affect him next year while the faculty is concerned with how it will affect Davidson over the next several years.” For this reason, a campus government makes sense because it would provide both viewpoints before and during policy making. “Often an innocent faculty policy can look very bad to students and the faculty just hadn't seen it in that light.” This synthesis of opinions provided by a campus government would also serve to widen the overall college policy. “Because policy is a very hard thing to pin down, the best thing to do is to set policy such as student conduct, on broad guidelines.”

Richards will be eligible for reelection to the Board next year after being off the board for a year. Elected a member of the Board in 1957, Lingle’s term will run until 1970, when he, like Richards, will have to sit out a year before being eligible for reelection. Lingle is also serving as national co-chairman of the committee seeking to raise Davidson's share of the $7.7 million Ford Challenge Grant.

“One of the most important problems facing the trustees in the near future is maintaining the unique Christian character of the college,” speculated Lingle. “I think it can and should be done. However, it cannot be done in just the traditional way, by preserving the status quo.” He reflected his experience with the Ford Foundation Fund in saying, “I think the Trustees have a primary responsibility for fund raising. They should take leadership by being the first to contribute and the most generous. Let me say that I think the trustees have responded very well indeed to the present challenge grant.”

Student abolishment of their drinking rule came under fire by the new president. “I'm sorry to see the students abandon responsibility for drinking on campus. I think that Davidson has a better attitude because there has been very little drinking. I think that students ought to reconsider their action. I think that it is quite possible that the experience of living on campus without the regulations will cause the more thoughtful students to restore the rule.”

After graduating from Davidson, Lingle joined Procter and Gamble and became executive vice president in charge of international operations.

WALTER LINGLE
Son Of 11th President

Faculty Approval Seen As Virtually Assured

Compulsory Vespers should be suspended for two years, the Board of Trustees decided at their spring meeting yesterday. In their proposal, the Trustees took no final action, but rather recommended to the faculty that such a course of action be pursued. Faculty approval of the Trustee measure is virtually assured.

In recommending the temporary suspension of Vespers, the Board called on the faculty to strive to develop viable alternatives to required religious exercises. In a statement issued after the meeting, the Trustees said: “The argument that freedom of conscience of the individual is involved does not appear to us as relevant in this instance. Students who enroll at Davidson do so with full knowledge as to the religious stance and policy of the college.”

“At the same time,” the statement continued, “we recognize that the religious life of the college should be a matter of personal commitment and not compulsion. Therefore, we recommend that the faculty consider alternatives that will continue to foster the spiritual growth of our students in a manner consistent with the principles of freedom and responsibility.”

Student Ideas Show Changes

Today's Davidson student is a vastly different one from those of 1940, J. McDowell Richards told THE DAVIDSONIAN yesterday. Richards was reminiscing over...

Trustees Loosen Rules On Voting And Tenure

The Trustees yesterday completed revision of their new set of bylaws, liberalizing the provisions on faculty voting and religious commitment and updating the policy on faculty tenure. Acting in response to faculty urging, the 51 Trustees granted voting privileges on policy matters to professors who have been on the faculty for at least a year or who have attained the rank of full professor; lessened the extent of Christian commitment required of psychology and philosophy professors; and officially accepted the American Association of University Professors’ principle of tenure.

The changes are the last of over 170 made since the Trustees began revising their by-laws four years ago. Although many of the changes involve simple additions or deletions, at least a dozen of them have been considered significant.

Faculty Social Group Rejects Rush Rules

The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life declined to approve the rush regulations drawn up by the Interfraternity Council for 1966-67 in its Wednesday meeting, and the IFC laid plans for an Interfraternity Judiciary Board. The particular rule in question was IV (2) which stated that freshmen would not be allowed to enter a fraternity house except...With the permission of the office of the Dean of Students, in consultation with the IFC, Mike Booe, president of the IFC, indicated that the faculty...

Ray Stringfield (left) and Joe Beard were the only interested students to turn out when Paul Marion, president of the senior class, called a voluntary chapel to read the proposed constitutional amendments to establish a Student Regulations Court. The student body vote on the proposals will be held Monday. It will be voluntary also. (Staff Photo by Olson).

The committee made its objection on grounds that the rule was “too restrictive.” He suggested that the IFC would have to follow more closely the guidelines established by the Social Life Evaluation Committee report that freshmen be allowed to visit at the houses until 7:30 p.m. No member of the faculty committee was available for comment.

While the IFC re-examines its rush regulations, member fraternities will be voting on whether or not to adopt a proposed amendment to the constitution which would establish an Interfraternity Council Judicial Board. The board would replace the fraternity liaison officer in the investigation and enforcement of infractions of rules relating to fraternities. The proposed jurisdiction of the judicial board would cover the IFC constitution, bylaws, regulations, and college rules pertaining to fraternities, and disputes among members of the IFC. Cases would be referred to the Chairman of the Judicial Board in written form by the Dean of Students Office, Fraternity Liaison Office, member fraternities, or representatives to the IFC. An investigation committee composed of those representatives of the IFC appointed by the president would then be formed to investigate complaints. The board itself is to be composed of the vice-president of the IFC as chairman, three IFC representatives appointed by the president, and three fraternity presidents selected alphabetically and serving for a month at a time. After hearing evidence for and against the fraternity or fraternities involved in the case, a verdict will be reached by majority vote.

The decision on faculty voting climaxes months of controversy. In their meeting last October, the Trustees had unintentionally made the policy more restrictive, overlooking the faculty’s traditional practice of giving the vote to every faculty member, regardless of rank. With the second revision, psychology and philosophy professors, formerly required to be Presbyterian ministers or officers, are now included largely under general faculty requirements, which demand membership in a Christian church. By officially adopting the AAUP principle of tenure, the Trustees have eliminated an inconsistency in practice and ruled and accepted a policy that has been used for over 10 years.

26 Years
26 years as president of the Board of Trustees after having retired yesterday. “Of course, the intellectual achievement is much higher,” he explained. “This is due both to improvements in public education and the increased number of applicants, giving us a greater choice of students.” But Richards, president of Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Ga., also believes the Davidson student has a different attitude from the 1940s. “Today’s student is much more sophisticated,” he said. “The student today is prone to be more critical and inquiring. It is the spirit of the age to criticize existing institutions,” he went on. He pointed to the questioning of bases for convictions or lack of convictions. “But certain basic attitudes of youth don’t change,” he explained. “Youth is characterized by an outward search for happiness; it is a more carefree period.” “Youth is also generally hungry for spiritual values, though expressed in different ways in different generations,” he asserted. “And in spite of today’s critical attitude, there is still an element of idealism present.”

Next two years, the Board continued, “the Trustees recognize the complexity and difficulty of the problems involved. Ours is a common desire to find the most effective way in which to express the Christian commitment of Davidson and to promote the highest spiritual welfare of its students.” The Board’s statement expresses grave doubts as to the wisdom of the move. “Required attendance at religious services has been a part of the program of Davidson throughout its history and we believe that the results have been good,” it said. “I’m hopeful about the measures,” outgoing President J. McDowell Richards told THE DAVIDSONIAN. “But I was reluctant to take the step.” Richards expressed the belief that the required program would be permanently discontinued if the new programs are successful. “There was no real difference of opinion throughout the meeting,” he commented, “just differences on method.” Another Trustee said that the tone of the whole meeting was toward change. “When something such as this becomes a stumbling block, it’s time to try something different. Of course, you can’t just throw something like this out. You have to have something in its place,” he continued.

The Board’s action came as a result of a two-year study by the Faculty Religious Life Committee which was presented to the faculty April 5. The faculty tabled the proposal at that time until their May meeting, then scheduled for last Tuesday. However, that meeting was postponed to allow Trustee consideration of the question. The faculty will meet again Tuesday to take action on the Trustees’ recommendation.

Social Council Brings The Bitter End Singers
The Social Council will feature the Bitter End Singers at 10 p.m. this Saturday, following the drama department’s presentation of “An Enemy of the People.” The concert is to be held in front of Chambers, weather permitting. Vince Foster, the Social Council chairman, urges all students attending to bring blankets. If the weather is inclement, the concert will be held in the gymnasium. Foster also urges as many students as possible to stay on the campus this weekend and not miss these singers who have been well received in colleges throughout the Southeast. The Hungry D Restaurant will be open from 6-7:15 p.m. The Drama Department will present Ibsen’s “An Enemy of the People” at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall, so that the play will end before the Bitter End Singers.

Several of Davidson’s fraternities will be having open parties this weekend before and after the concert. The SAE party is to be held at Commodore Peninsula on Lake Norman from 2 p.m. to 3 a.m. Howard Hughes American Legion Post at Douglas Airport will be the scene of the Pika party from midnight to 4 a.m. In Kannapolis, the Aces Wild will be playing for the Sigma Chi party, which begins at 11 p.m. The ATO party will be at the American Legion Post in Cornelius. The party runs from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m.