By GEORGE ROBINSON : Sports

In spite of several fine individual performances, the Davidson swimmers dropped their second meet to The Citadel by a 72-32
score, Dec. 10.

Eddie Beach paced the Wildcats’ effort with eight points. He won the 200-yard Individual Medley Relay and placed second in
the 220-yard butterfly. John Helm and Bobby Vagt helped the Davidson cause, collecting six points each. Helm took second in
the 50 and 100-yard freestyle events, while Vagt finished second in the 200 and 500-yard freestyle competition.

Also outstanding for Davidson was Joe Friebele, who won the 200-yard backstroke event with a time of 2:25.7. In the
diving competition, Tucker Dalton placed second. Coach Tom Stevens said, “This is Tucker's first year in diving competition, and he
is progressing well.” Stevens continued, “We are fairly strong in the individual medleys but we are lacking in other events,
especially the sprints. We are missing three good swimmers from last year's team, and, for what we have, we are
coming along well.”

Mac Davis and Doug Stott each won two events, but did not receive much support as the freshmen finmen lost
to The Citadel, 69-34. Davis took first in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle competition, turning in a new record time
of 53.1 in the former. Stott finished first in the 200-yard individual medley and butterfly competition. Ed Bartle and Wendell
Holmes also contributed to the Wildcat effort. Bartle won the 500-yard freestyle while Holmes placed second in the 50-yard freestyle
event.

Stevens said, “The team is not outstanding, but they have been working hard and are a real pleasure to coach.
I think Davis, Stott, Bartle, Holmes and John Thacker will give us some help next year.”

By BOB REID Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson’s red-hot Wildkittens burned up Brevard Duke’s Baby Ballers this week to bring their season record to 5-0. The ‘Kittens
kicked off the week's cage action with an 88-61 trouncing over Brevard to shatter the losers’ three-year home court winning
streak. Jan Postma blasted the hosts’ defense with 29 points, while teammates Doug Cook and Mike Maloy added 17 points
apiece to the wipeout. Meanwhile, Maloy dominated the boards with 13 rebounds and two blocked shots to his credit, while
Cook hauled down 11 rebounds and blocked one shot. Tom Sherrill led the Brevard scoring effort with a 23-point performance.

Davidson dominated the game from the beginning with a blitzing offense and tight, effective defense. The ‘Kittens led 41-26 at
the half. Duke's Devilettes met the Dixie Darlings Tuesday at Durham and gave the ‘Kittens the roughest night of their
college careers. Seizing an early lead, the Blue Devils taught the freshman quintet what it feels like to be behind,
rolling up a 39-29 lead at the half. The ‘Kittens came back scrapping in the second half and kept up
with ACC rivals. With more than three minutes left in the game, Duke held tenaciously to a slender five-point lead.
But forward Jerry Kroll sparked the ‘Kittens with five straight buckets to ignite the ‘Kitten offense which exploded with a
15-point blitz to push Davidson past the Durham dunkers and grab a 63-54 win. Maloy’s scoring totals, followed by Kroll's
19 points, paced the ‘Kittens.

Four IMAC Teams Remain Undefeated

Four teams remained undefeated as the intramural basketball teams completed their second week of play. The Phi-Delts opened their 1966-67
campaign with a resounding 74-67 trouncing of the SPE’s on Friday. Ronnie Hunt, spirit of the Delts, led them to
their initial triumph with 18 points. Cliff Duke and John “Hatchetman” Fagg added 16 and 10 points respectively. Duke's backcourt
mate, George House, contributed nine points. Fletcher Hartsell led the downtrodden SPE's with 19 points.

On Tuesday the Delts won again, by handing the Machis their first loss, 48-42. House and Hunt led the Delt
scorers with 15 and 10 points. Joel Williamson and Jeff Pflugner were high for Sigma Chi with 16 and 10
points, respectively.

The pre-season favorite Kappa Sigs had a rough time of it against the KA’s but managed to pull through without
blemishing their record. On Tuesday they had lost 54-52 when one of the KA’s was declared ineligible and the KA's
had to forfeit. Monday night they beat the ATO’s. Ray Garrison, Bill Jones and Peter Boggs led the Sig scorers
with 14, 13, and 12 points. Dave Jennings’ 13 points and Geoff Birkhead’s 9 were high for the Taus.

The Phi Gams led by Doug Rhymes and Rich Graham won their second game Tuesday by bombing the Pikas, 74-56.
Rhymes had 25 and Graham, 14, while “Hot-dog” Hinnant tossed in 18 for the losers. The Pikas lost two more
games during the week—59-34 to the Machis and 51-45 to the Betas. Hinnant with 12 and Wayne Mangum with nine
were high for the Pikas in the latter game. However, the Betas, led by Hank Strickland, Joe Rice, and Mac
Otts, who tallied 18, 14, and 8 points respectively, prevailed.

The Betas evened their record at 2-2 with a 55-34 pasting of the KA’s. Mackey Reavis and Strickland were the
leading scorers with 16 and 10 points. Kirk Reed and Dick Lindsay were high for the KA’s.

The Nus won both of their games by beating the Pi Kapps, 54-46, and the Independents, 59-46. Raff Barnette had
21 and Toby “Stud” Westmoreland had 16 points for the games. Tom Skinner had eight and nine and 10 for
the two Sigma Nu victories. J. C. Burch, diminutive spirit of the Nus, contributed 10 points in the Indie game.
Against the Nus, Paul Curlee had 20 points and Charlie Taylor had 13 for the Pi Kapps. Bruce Weidner had
16 and “Peepsie” Peel had eight points for the Independents, for whom this was the first loss. The Pi Kapps
forfeited to the SAE’s, thus enabling the E’s to remain undefeated.

HAVE PAPERS TO BE TYPED?
Contact Mrs. R. H. Steele
821 McAlway Rd.
Charlotte, N. C.
Weekends and Evenings
Six years legal experience.
Phone 366-9253

HAVE A Yule!
But Save A Little Loot For Our 1/2 Price Book Sale In JanuaryHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

In his 14-yard game, five will play their next game Jan. 4, when Richmond's Baby Spiders play host. 18 points,
and Cook's nine. This week's action marked the time the ‘Kittens have failed to crack the 100-point mark. Prior to
the Bre- Davidson's freshmen had been averaging 103.3 points per game. Tuesday's win over Duke signaled the end of the
‘Kittens’ 1966 cage slate. The freshman season to Davidson.

ADEL MEET in 100 Yd. Freestyle (Staff Photo by Weems)

Despite an embarrassing loss to N. C. State Saturday, the Green Wave of Tulane should be a formidable opponent Saturday
night in New Orleans, La. Six sophomores up from an undefeated freshman team which averaged over 101 points per game
last year have spread new life to the Tulane squad. Two of them will start: Terry Habig and Johnny Arthurs.
Joining them will be Dan Moser, Mitch Urbanski, and Al Andrews. Seven-foot tall center Craig Spitzner has also won a
possible starting role.

On Tuesday night, the ‘Cats return to the Charlotte Coliseum to meet Southern Conference opponent George Washington. With a new
head coach, Babe McCarthy, from Mississippi State, the Colonials are faced with the current task of adopting his slow-down style
of play which was highly successful in the Southeastern Conference. All five of last year's regulars return. The playmaker is
5-8 Joe Lalli, with other starters including Terry Grefe, 6-8 Bob Nugent, 6-8 Dick Ballard, and Mickey Sullivan, last year's
top scorer.

Two doubleheaders will constitute the Charlotte Invitational on December 28 and 29 as the ‘Cats compete with Fordham, Army, and
Maryland. Maryland Coach Bud Millikan will be using veteran 6-7 Jay McMillen at a forward spot, with small (6-1) Bill
Jones at the other forward. The keys to success for Millikan rest with Pete Johnson's outside shooting and a healthy
6-5 Joe Harrington. The Army Cadets lost Joe Helkie, Bob Silliman, and Mike Murray, who led them to an 18-8
record and a high NIT spot last year, but Coach Bobby Knight will be using 6-6 sophomore Steve Hunt, Bill
Schutsky, Mike Noonan, 6-5 Dave Grof, and 6-6 Rick Simmons and Gary Eiber. This is the tallest team in Army's
history. If they find their shooting range, they will be hard to beat.

The Fordham Rams were 10-15 last year, but Coach Johnny Bach is counting on Bill Langheld, 6-5 veteran center, to
anchor the squad. Joining Langheld will be Brian Sheeran, Ken Purker, Richie Goggin, and Phil Tama. Inexperience and lack of
height make it necessary for Fordham to try to use speed as an asset this season.

After the tournament, the ‘Cats journey to the University of Virginia where the Cavaliers, who reportedly have the second toughest
schedule in the nation, have only one returning starter from last year’s team, Jim Connelly.

MERRY CHRISTMAS DAVIDSONIANS!

Win A $25.00 Gift Certificate FREE at the College Union Party Compliments of

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Phone 892-2111
Russell Stover Candies
Christmas Gifts
Your Neighborhood Drug Store
Open 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Davidson, N. C.

La Roma Ristoranti
CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Spaghetti — Salads
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Rendezvous in Charlotte at
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Any game is more fun with ice-cold Coke on hand. Coca-Cola has the taste you never get tired of ...
always refreshing. That's why things go better with Coke.

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, NORTH CAROLINA
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:

Fancy Diamond Ring $149
MOORESVILLE JEWELERS
No! It’s just purchased at LEONARD'S for Christmas
You must see our thrilling collection of diamonds and other precious stone jewelry — all specially priced for Holiday giving!
Opal and Diamonds $99
NO MONEY DOWN

Clothing For The Pace-Setting Traditionalist

---

Note: Some parts of the text were unclear or seemed to be cut off, so I made the best possible
corrections based on context.
