TOM COOK | SPORTS EDITOR

ESCALATION BREEDS ESCALATION

The rising controversy concerning tickets at the Charlotte Coliseum has finally hit the ceiling. On your tickets for the Princeton game Thursday will be stamped “Complimentary,” which means that it can be used only by you for yourself. If you buy a date ticket, it will be marked similar to the football date tickets. The question to which no answer has been offered is what has motivated the Athletic Department, and the Athletic Director in particular, to go to such pains to isolate the students and restrict their actions. From the crowds we have drawn so far, it is obvious that a lack of tickets is not the motivating factor. Since the price of tickets has been increased, lack of adequate revenue should not be the reason either.

Backtracking to set the scene for the events forthcoming, let’s consider the situation. In past years a Davidson student picked up his ticket along with his friends at the ticket office. If all of his friends were also going to the game, he would buy a date ticket at the full price of $2.50 for the mezzanine where all students sit now. Since much of the dating to basketball games was done during the week, students were able to spread it out several nights a week without exceeding their funds. No one ever complained about the practice of giving tickets to other students even when every game was a sellout. The students were happy, ate lots of popcorn, and made lots of noise. Going to Charlotte was almost as much fun as yelling at Mel Thompson of The Citadel in the gym.

A minor change occurred last year which complied with student requests. Instead of having reserved seats, entire sections were reserved for students, saving everyone the trouble of rounding up a big crowd to go to the gym together to get tickets. Then came this year. For some reason, Davidson students were required to show their ID's along with their tickets at a special gate. Perhaps someone got the idea from the Social Council's methods at Love Auditorium. The major difference was the philosophy applied. The Social Council only wished to assure that every student who wanted a seat got one before outsiders were admitted. This purpose was already being accomplished before the current rules were employed at the Charlotte Coliseum.

Why has the Athletic Department chosen to treat us like children? Last week anyone who forgot their ID could walk through any gate with their ticket. Most students felt that making us present identification was strictly a harassing action. It was really an asinine move on the part of the powers-that-be. All the seats were reserved again. Last week was a rinky-dink return to the Dark Ages. The students were evidently not too happy. Accustomed to being treated like men, they reacted against the Athletic Department's actions. It is doubtful that as much as half of the student body had seen the most exciting team we have ever fielded before Tuesday night. Dates were few. How do you impress a girl that Davidson basketball is big league when your administration treats you like a child and funnels you through a single gate and makes you exhibit your ID when you have a ticket which says you are entitled to a seat in the Coliseum? And frankly, we on the floor of the Coliseum had to strain to hear any student support after the introductions. About 100 Duke students and their band seated behind their team made more noise Friday night than the Davidson student body did either Thursday or Saturday night.

The ticket policy should have cheering from a Davidson student section. Unhappy students who think they are being treated to less than they deserve are quiet students. It took some of the luster from a cage season which promises to be a great one. Now the newest ticket restrictions. What do they mean? Our student tickets are included in the $100 activity fee. But what Dr. Tom Scott plans to do, in essence, means that a student ticket in the garbage can is preferable to a filled seat whose occupant is making noise and eating popcorn. It's not freeloading to use another student's ticket for a date because that ticket is paid for. If you go to the gym and pick up your ticket and then don't go, your seat is going to be empty. Hence concessions are less and attendance is lower. Does that make sense? Sounds like a case of misplaced values to me.

Consider these questions: Is it possible that by giving students some type of discount on Coliseum date tickets the increase in the number of dates would offset the abnormally-low number of girls who are being invited to sit in a full-price seat? Is it really necessary to stamp student tickets with distinctive markings to prevent students from transferring their tickets when the tickets themselves bear no non-transferable clause? Do we have to make students pay excessively to attend a college function, when for less money and trouble, they can go elsewhere and expect to be treated with no restrictions? Since there are obviously plenty of unsold tickets, why can’t the students use their tickets as they wish? Why did all this mess get started anyway? This is the students’ team. Are we so money-hungry that we have to exploit the students also?

It is time to realize that the students are the people who keep this college going. There is no reason why the ticket policy should have changed from last year. People commented to me that they had never heard less cheering from a Davidson student section. The welfare of the students should always be in mind when policies are formulated. In the past, Athletic Department decisions were generally in the interest of the students. Now the question is who is going to benefit by the announced policy of the Athletic Department. To treat a student like a child is unforgivable. To belittle him in front of his date is inconsiderate. To make him pay exorbitantly for something he, of all people, should be given priority consideration is wrong. It is time for the Athletic Department to grow up in some of its policies. We still love basketball as we showed Tuesday night. The good old days are not gone forever. Treat the students as men and they will act as men. Treat them as children and everyone will be genuinely sorry. There is still time to rectify this situation. But not much time. The student body is unhappy and if the situation comes to its unintended but inevitable reaction, half of sections F and J will be empty and most of sections G and J will be the same when Davidson takes the court next Tuesday against George Washington. It will be a black mark against the school and the persons who, in the end, caused it.sake of the team, if for nothing else, there must be a change.

Davidsonian Sports
PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 6, 1966

Defense Strangles 12 Hoopster Foes

Davidson’s tight man-for-man defense clamped down hard this week and put the screws on Pitt and Furman to bring the sophomore-studded ‘Cats to a 3-0 record before tomorrow's battle with Michigan.

“I was really happy with the defense our boys put up,” said Head Coach Lefty Driesell after the tilts. “We should never have a bad night offensively,” added forward Tom Youngdale.

The ‘Cats launched the week's blitz with a 67-49 triumph over short, slow Pitt. While the Wildcat defense held the visitors’ offense in check, guard Wayne Huckel ignited the home team’s attack fire with an explosive 16-point effort, while Youngdale, Rod Knowles, and Dave Moser also hit in double figures.

“Anytime we can hold a team to under 60 points, we should win the game,” Driesell said. Pitt’s slow defense allowed the ‘Cats to employ a bevy of fast breaks. “We were very glad to get to work the fast breaks as much as we did,” Huckel said.

The Paladins came to Johnston Gym Tuesday and left with an 84-71 humiliation, their first of the season in three contests. Coach Frank Selvy's quintet oozed through the first half with a stalling, low-key offense designed to keep the ball in Paladin hands as long as possible. But Davidson's hawking man-for-man press and hustling rebound action broke the Paladin strategy, while the Huckel-led offense built a steady lead throughout the night. Huckel led the ‘Cat tallies with 29 points, while Don Webster was high man for the losers with 23.

“Our boys did a really fine job handling the slow game,” Driesell said. “It didn’t bother us because of our good defense. Our rebounding was a little off, but that is to be expected against a stall,” Driesell said he expects several other opponents to use the stall tactic this season.

While Huckel again paced the home team’s scoring, Youngdale hit 18, and Knowles and Scott Sinnack chalked up 15 points apiece.

Duke Added Next Year

Duke, Davidson's longtime athletic rival, will return to the Wildcat cage schedule next season, officials of both schools confirmed this week. The ‘Cats and the Blue Devils, both of whom are no strangers to national-ranking charts, will clash at Durham on Jan. 2, 1968, to inaugurate the new four-year series. The rest of the schedule includes games at the Charlotte Coliseum on Feb. 19, 1969; at Greensboro on Feb. 18, 1970, and in Charlotte on Feb. 17, 1971.

The two schools terminated their last series in Durham in February 1964, on a little less than friendly terms. Duke won the encounter 85-78, and the defeat caused bitter feelings to many Davidsonians and particularly Head Coach Lefty Driesell, who charged that Duke Head Coach Vic Bubas “won't play me at home.”

Duke has finished in the top 10 for the last six years. The ‘Cats, who are undefeated this season after three games, have won 20 or more games for the last four seasons and have finished in the top 10 nationally twice.

“We are delighted to have a school of Duke’s academic and athletic stature on our schedule for four years,” said Davidson Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott. “We look forward to a fine season with Duke.”

By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Last Saturday night the Davidson Wildcats blasted the Pitt Panthers off the Charlotte Coliseum court — and in the process, every reserve contributed to the scoring. Returning to the campus against Furman, the same six players again flashed the poise and scoring potential rarely displayed by ‘second-stringers.’

Fine new effect has Coach Lefty Driesell convinced that he really possesses the depth and bench strength making on his previous teams. “I have all the confidence in the world that these guys can help us win. I wouldn’t be a bit worried if I had to start any one of them.”

The difference in their ability and those of the starters is, as Driesell happily admits, very slight. Indeed, it should be, for three of the six reserves started for last year's 12-4 Freshman team, two others saw considerable action on that same squad, while the other came to Davidson as a highly acclaimed junior college transfer.

Mike O'Neill, no prep All-American with an endless repertoire of shots, is considered the sixth man. O'Neill, in averaging 11.7 last year, drilled many of his 111 field goals with spectacular off-balance jump shots. He paced the reserves against Pitt with eight points.

In the opening contest with Wake Forest, slender Rocky Crosswhite was summoned to fill the breach created when Roddy Knowles became saddled with three fouls. Crosswhite provided a fine job on the boards in a crucial situation. Much improved over his freshman season, according to Driesell, he will be counted on heavily as the season progresses.

Driesell indicated his satisfaction with Mike Spann's effort in the Furman win. In addition, he tallied six points in the contest. The 6-5, 210-pounder hauled down a freshman-leading 8.5 per contest, while still finding time to score at a 16.2 clip.

Mike Dickens and Tony Orsbon were outstanding freshman performers last season. Dickens, who chipped in six points a game, exhibits smooth moves and a fine accuracy and a few scoring touches from around the basket. Orsbon contributed 4.7 points per game last year. His leaping ability excites the fans — only 6-3, he can dunk the ball with both hands.

Bob Pickens, a transfer from Brevard Junior College, is one of the most versatile ‘Cats. Playing behind Dave Moser at the point, he has quarterbacked the team well and played good defense. Pickens tallied five points against the Purple Paladins, but he pleased the crowd and Driesell most with his spectacular passing ability.

Driesell commended all the reserves for “their outstanding hustle and attitude in practice as well as in the games. We depend on them to push our starters and they have done so with determination.”

SOPH IS TOP GUN
Huckel Paces Class, Cagers

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

Sophomore guard Wayne Huckel said he came to Davidson because of its educational and athletic advantages. His teachers and coaches can agree he has gotten the most out of both. Huckel, with a 2.7 academic average, has been the leading scorer for the ‘Cats this season, averaging 18 points per game.

“Huckel has done a real great job,” said Head Coach Lefty Driesell. “But I’m not surprised. We knew he had what it takes.”

The 6-4 psychology major from Cranford, N.J., launched his varsity career with an 18-point performance against Wake Forest, while holding All-American candidate Paul Long to a paltry six points. When the ‘Cats returned to the Coliseum to meet Pitt, Huckel blazed the competition’s defense with another 18 tallies. Then Furman’s Paladins felt the sting of Huckel's sizzling accuracy Tuesday night as the soph star added 18 points to his scoring total.

Driesell appreciates Huckel’s hustling, shooting, and desire. “He (Huckel) does a fine job of hustling. All our boys do, or they wouldn't be playing. Wayne does a good job at both ends of the court. He can shoot and play good defense. He'll be a lot like (Dick) Snyder as far as that goes.”

A star freshman roundballer, Huckel said he does not see as much difference between freshman and varsity ball as between high school and freshman college competition. “I guess the team has as much potential as Davidson teams of the Snyder era, and more than last year's squad. We've done well so far this year,” he said. “The competition has been pretty fair. We beat Wake Forest, we beat VPI, who in turn beat Duke. Pitt didn’t have much, but Furman was pretty good. So we haven’t been playing poor competition.”

After Davidson, Huckel plans to attend law school. When asked about any plans to play for the NBA, Huckel laughed and said he might try it “just for fun” if he had the opportunity, but has no definite plans for a pro career.