WEATHER FORECAST
Variable cloudy and cool tonight. A little warmer tomorrow. Chance of light scattered showers tonight and tomorrow. Sunday partly cloudy and mild. Low tonight and tomorrow, 45. High tomorrow and Sunday.

VOL. LV

Honor Court Names Whitehead Chairman
At the Wednesday night meeting of the Honor Court, Alva Whitehead was elected as Chairman of the Honor Court for next year. Whitehead, a rising senior from Lake City, S.C., is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and served as their rush chairman this year. In addition to his duties as Chairman of the Honor Court, he will also serve as editor of the Wildcat Handbook for next year.

Speeches by the candidates for the office of Chairman of the Honor Court were given on their concept of the Honor Court and their idea of its future. In the same elections, Ed Armfield, a rising senior, was elected Vice Chairman, and Ronnie Hunt, a rising junior, was elected Recorder. The new officers of the Court will attend an Honor Court seminar at the University of Virginia later this month.

Whitehead sees as his main responsibility as newly elected chairman the polishing up of the new procedure created by the reforms of this year. Whitehead’s initial plans include an orientation for new members and new officers of the Court. Next Tuesday a mock trial will be staged which will employ the newly initiated investing committee and defense advisor. The old members of the court will give a critique of the mock trial.

Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966
ALVA WHITEHEAD

Election Picks Booe For IFC President
Mike Booe, a junior from Little Rock, Ark., was elected president of the Interfraternity Council for 1966-67, at the meeting of the IFC Monday night. Booe is SAE IFC representative. Other officers elected were Tom Brown, Pi Kappa Alpha, secretary, and Stan Brown, Sigma Phi Epsilon, treasurer.

Outgoing president, Jim Terry made several remarks and suggestions for continuing improvement of the IFC. Terry emphasized that “one of the best things we (IFC) can do is set up some definite goals right off the bat, make them public, and work towards them."

Some of the suggestions he made included: better communication between fraternity presidents and the IFC, expansion of the IFC to 24 members serving two-year terms, establishment of a “Junior IFC” composed of pledges, and strengthening the scholarship programs.

FILMS, SAILING
Union President Sets Programs And Staff
By BILL SEIGLER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The showing of two “underground” films and a discussion with their producer, a sailing program given by Capt. John Biddle, and several appearances by comedian Fred Smoot highlight upcoming events in the Student Union, according to Peter Parrott, newly-elected president of the Union Staff Board.

On Tuesday Capt. Biddle will present a sailing program in conjunction with the Davidson Sailing Club and the Union Board. Parrott commented that Biddle “is one of America's foremost sailors. In the program, he moderates a 90-minute film and is often very amusing. We expect a big turnout.” There will be no charge.

Jonas Mekas, whom Parrott terms as “the biggest man in underground films in the United States," will be on campus Wednesday to present two of his films and hold an open discussion afterwards.

The week of April 25-30 Fred Smoot will make several appearances in a program built around him. Definite plans are not yet ready for release, according to Parrott.

Talking about the Union Board in general, Parrott said, “We've gotten the board together, revamped the whole setup and got a more organized, tighter and hopefully more efficient board than in the past.

“The board is staffed by people both capable and interested in getting the job done.”

Colonel Compliments ROTC Department
The ROTC Department and Brigade received superlative compliments as a result of Tuesday's federal inspection. Col. K. L. Scott, who led the team of nine inspectors, said “Of the five universities we have inspected, we consider Davidson's program to be the best.

“The facilities are the best, the esprit de corps appears very high, and good leadership is evident throughout the program. I think the program here at Davidson is one which the President of the College should be very proud of,” he continued.

A written report will go to the Third Army headquarters. But the departmental officers received an oral briefing from the inspectors: the inspecting team found no significant thing whatsoever to be unsatisfactory. Instead, all comments were extremely complimentary. Major McCue and Capt. Kennedy of Wofford College said, “The drill today was extremely sharp.”

McCue went on to say, “The cadets were exceptionally knowledgeable on military subjects and showed good willingness to answer questions. The cadre (regular army officers in the ROTC department) and the cadet brigade staff are to be very highly praised for getting the men in such fine shape.”

Col. Fredrick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, said, “The cadets in drill this afternoon performed as well as at any school I've seen." Likewise, Cadet Col. Jerry B. Blackstock, Cadet Brigade Commander, was pleased with the very excellent drill.

The inspecting team left for Wake Forest College late Tuesday afternoon. Last year, due to smaller teams of inspectors, the drill inspection was not nearly so detailed. However, this year there were seven officers, three from the Third Army and two each from Wofford College and Furman University, and two sergeants.

The ROTC department was paid its second visit in as many days by federal government personnel when on Wednesday afternoon a team, representing the Department of Army, toured the ROTC facilities. Heading the group was C. Owen Smith, assistant to the secretary and the undersecretary of the Army, Colonel Jack Hemingway, also an assistant to the undersecretary, Colonel Scott Case of Third Army Headquarters and Dr. Richard de Neufville, a White House Fellow, comprised the remainder of the group.

The purpose of their visit was to express the interest of the Department of the Army in the ROTC program, and to observe the actual operation of the ROTC department. The tour began with a conference with college officials, and concluded with an inspection of the facilities and a briefing by the cadet brigade staff.

Members this year include Parrott, Bob Dugger, vice-president of current programs; Chris Hawk, vice-president of new programs; Charlie Elliot, secretary; Ben King, social chairman; Joe Obenshain, director of the Union library; Ed Dwelle, chairman of the new ideas committee; Mike Mooty, head of Open End; David Jenning, displays; Charlie Edwards and John Laughridge, publicity; Bruce Hyslop, films; and Rich Graham, games and recreation.

The budget which has been submitted to the college, larger than usual because of delayed rush, includes money for an offset printing press for general college use. Parrott expressed his expectation of the Union Board's “having the type programs eventually to draw the whole student body ... and... working in conjunction with other organizations.

“We will definitely have more social activities," including probably three freshmen mixers next year.

Spring With Female Infiltration Activities Commence With Concert Tonight
Spring Frolics burst into full bloom this afternoon despite a week of threatening skies that portended a damp setting for the annual vernal bacchanalia. More than 700 girls were expected to converge to help do the honors.

The festivities were kicked off at 5 p.m. today when the soulful tunes of Statesville’s Venturas began to reverberate around the fraternity court from the general area of the KA and Beta houses. The event was expected to draw wide participation from all around.

The first official event comes tonight at 8 p.m. when the Temptations and the Coasters appear in concert in Chambers Auditorium. The Coasters haven't put out any big hits lately, but according to Social Council Chairman Vance Foster, “They were at W&L not long ago, and are supposed to have put on a great show.” They made the top of the charts seven years ago with the likes of “Charlie Brown,” “Yakety Yak,” and “Along Came Jones.” The Temptations have had more recent success, notably with “MyGirl,’ ‘Since I Lost My Baby,’ ‘The Way You Do The Things You Do’ and ‘Get Ready.’ They were scheduled to appear here for the fall concert weekend but canceled out. Tonight ends with the usual breakfast in the Union from 3 to 4:30 a.m. Tomorrow afternoon features a baseball game with Wilmington and a track meet with The Citadel. Meanwhile from 4:30 to 6:30 the ‘Aces Wild,’ a local group led by Geordie Mueller, will perform for a combo party at the lake campus. Hamburgers will be served starting at five.

Friday night's entertainment is a two-hour concert by the Womenfolk, an unheard-of group of five females who have enjoyed success in California and New York City. They feature such tunes as ‘Para Bailer la Bamba,’ ‘Rickety Tickety Tin’ and ‘Skip to My Lou,’ says Variety, ‘It's a fresh and exciting act.’ The Union is also presenting two free movies, ‘Bachelor Flat’ at 11:30 p.m. tonight and ‘The Wayward Bus’ tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Foster announced that the Social Council’s new sound system would be ready for use tonight. The college is footing $600 of the $1,600 bill.

THE TEMPTATIONS Appear With The Coasters Tonight at 8 P.M.

New Factory To Bring Industrial Revolution

General Time Corporation's announcement of its intention to build a $700,000 factory off of Davidson's Armour Drive stimulated one professor to comment, ‘It looks like the Industrial Revolution has finally come to Davidson.’ General Time, which is the world’s largest manufacturer of timepieces and timing devices, plans to invest over one million dollars in the plant that will employ 600-700 people, mostly women assembly line workers and 40-50 executives to be brought in from the present head offices in Athens, Ga.

A local restaurant owner rejoiced, ‘Personally, I'm real happy to see something like this. It'll mean a lot in more ways than one. This factory will bring a lot more business for everybody in town. It'll help the education around here.’ The professor forecast broad sociological changes as a result of the factory. ‘There will be a new upper middle class who have no affiliation with the college. It’s going to mean a new social life for the faculty. They will be able to have contact with life outside of Davidson.

‘There are some of the old people around here who don't want any change. They want things to stay small and quiet. They don’t even realize how much of a change there is going to be. The faculty has always maintained its exclusive little book clubs, like fraternities with blackballs and everything else. I wouldn’t be at all surprised if this factory does as so many companies do and sets up a country club for its employees.

‘In the past the faculty have been the top dogs around here. Now they're going to start squirming, and I look forward to seeing them squirm.’ He also pointed out that wages for college employees such as janitors and secretaries will be pushed upward. ‘The student wives who really work for nothing as secretaries for the college are going to be able to find better paying jobs.’ Real estate prices will also be forced upward according to his analysis. ‘The only danger is that there is a housing shortage around here. This may force them to go to Mooresville for homes. I've never seen a place where people are as reluctant to let go of land as Davidson.’ He prophesized changes in the shopping habits such as better-stocked grocery stores, and perhaps a good clean restaurant and motel. ‘It wouldn’t surprise me to see the area on the access road to highway 21 made into a shopping center. The business district, such as it is, is going to shift in that direction.’

Expansion of the whole north Mecklenburg County is near in his opinion. He listed the attractions of Lake Norman, the planned North-South expressway in Charlotte, and the new interstate highway as contributing to this move. The restaurant owner who looked forward to better education and more business said, ‘I'm really a little surprised that the college let them come in. Duke Power gives so much money to the college, and Duke Power is the one that sold the land, so I guess there wasn't much that the school could do about it.

‘I understand that in the past the college hasn't wanted things like this to come in. I guess they want to keep things as they are, keep the town small so that things will be quiet around here.’ With a mercenary look in her eyes, she continued, ‘I'm going to talk to those men in Georgia about setting up a cafeteria sort of thing there. After all, being here on this street, there's only so much that we can do now.’

JOHNSTON HEADS STUDY Faculty Will Consider Revamping Curriculum

By BRUCE WEIHE Davidsonian Staff Writer

A wholesale study of the Davidson curriculum will be conducted by a faculty committee, to be chosen at the next faculty meeting, April 26. According to Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston, who proposed such a committee at the last faculty meeting on April 5, ‘we needed to look at the whole curriculum program from beginning to end.’

‘The current day liberal arts program at Davidson may need to change,’ Johnston continued. ‘Although it is impossible to comment on what specific changes need to be made until the committee starts working, there is a feeling that the major-minor and graduation requirements need to be looked at.’ The committee will be composed of seven members, one from each of the three major faculty sections, one selected at large from the faculty, two appointed by President Martin, with Dean Johnston serving as chairman of the committee.

Johnston stated that the proposed curriculum changes evolve from the self-study carried out by the faculty this year, and from suggestions offered by the visiting committee that was here last fall representing the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities. The committee will serve throughout the next school year, comparing Davidson with other small liberal arts colleges that have made recent curriculum changes. Johnston also mentioned that any changes proposed by the committee cannot go into effect next year, since the catalogue has already been approved for the year. ‘If any changes are passed by the faculty,’ continued Johnston, ‘they will probably go into effect in the fall of 1967.’

Dr. John Kelton, associate professor of psychology, noted that ‘any graduation requirement changes will probably not affect any class presently in Davidson, but will affect the class of 1970. Major or minor requirements could affect the present freshman class, but no one else presently at Davidson.’ Kelton felt that the proposed committee could institute a tremendous overhaul of the present curriculum. ‘Instead of a continuation of the series of minor curriculum changes that Davidson has always known,’ Kelton said, ‘I sense this to be a major overhaul of the curriculum.’

Associate biology professor William Lammers expressed his hope that the changes aren't so drastic as to diminish the role of a solid liberal arts college producing a well-rounded graduate. Lammers warned not to ‘throw out the baby with the bath water’ by changing major and graduation requirements so that ‘basic science courses, history courses and a mastery of languages be de-emphasized.’