WOULD YOU BELIEVE PARSONS?

Overall Record Is Vital in Admissions Decision

Graduate schools are more interested in the general appearance of an applicant’s record than in such individual factors as undergraduate
transcripts and graduate record examination scores.

“A graduate school looks at a candidate,” said Dr. W. B. Hight, “and from his record tries to answer the
question, ‘Can he succeed against graduate school competition?’”

Many factors influence the appearance of a student's record. “They look at your undergraduate academic record, and at your scores
on the graduate record exam or law exam, for example. I do think they pay more attention to those scores
than they say they do,” commented Hight.

TAKE EXAM ONCE

He explained that for best results generally the graduate record exam should be taken only once—during the senior year. The
exam consists of two parts—a morning exam which is a general aptitude test—and an afternoon achievement test which measures a
student's accomplishments in his major field of study.

The law exam and the medical exam should also be taken once—also during the senior year. They both consist of
general knowledge questions and law and medical aptitude questions respectively.

REPUTATION

“They take extra-curricular activities into consideration, but they are less meaningful in these applications than in applications to undergraduate schools.”
The reputation of the undergraduate school attended by an applicant is important, explained Hight, who also pointed out that often
a student from a college not well represented at a given graduate school will be accepted sooner than an equally
well-qualified student from a well-represented undergraduate college.

Frequently the amount of financial aid which an applicant says he needs to attend is a factor, Hight added.

RECOMMENDATIONS

He explained also that recommendations figure prominently in the decision of an admissions committee, for a graduate school can often
accurately judge a candidate for admission from the reputations of those people who recommend him, and also from the enthusiasm
or lack of enthusiasm with which the letters are written.

A final factor mentioned by Hight is the desire of a student to attend a particular school. “Sometimes this can
be important,” said Hight, who concluded that all the information a graduate school has about an applicant is important, and
sometimes seemingly unimportant factors make a difference between acceptance and rejection as “strange things happen in admissions committee meetings.”

MILLIONS LEFT UNCLAIMED

By KERN PARKER
Assistant Managing Editor

Financial considerations are no real obstacle to any competent student desiring to attend graduate school, according to Dr. William B.
Hight, director of student counseling.

“If a student is good enough,” said Dr. Hight, “he can receive financial aid from one of several sources.”

Hight pointed out that last year colleges, universities, educational foundations, corporations, charitable groups, private citizens and governmental agencies awarded over
one-half billion dollars in non-repayable stipends, and over one billion dollars in low-interest-rate loans.

UNUSED STIPENDS

In addition, more than $30 million in unrepayable stipends and more than $500 million dollars in low-interest rate loans went
unclaimed.

“The money's there,” said Hight, “and we've been building up our library in the guidance office so that our students
can learn where to get it. Right now we've got catalogs of more than 400 graduate schools.”

Hight said that graduate students want financial help for two reasons: because they need it and because it's prestigious to
have it.

TWO FACTORS

Hight said that a decision by a school or foundation to award a graduate student financial aid is based primarily
on two factors, with a third being important in borderline cases. The two main factors are rank in class (grade
average) and Graduate Record test scores. The third factor, professor recommendations, makes the difference when a decision is “real close.”

SOURCES OF AID

The graduate schools themselves offer three sources of financial aid, independent of private foundations: (1) fellowships—money of their own that
they give as they desire; (2) low-interest-rate loans, often drawing on funds made available by the federal government; (3) assistantships—programs
under which the student is paid for the work he does for a college (teaching, paper grading, serving as a
lab assistant) while continuing his studies.

Under an assistantship, a student will usually have as many hours of work per week as he has hours of
classes.

Epes, Johnson, Percy

By BILL GRAHAM
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Catalogue boasts to prospective admittees that over 70 percent of each graduating class eventually winds up in
some sort of graduate school. That is to say, Davidson students do not graduate in the ordinary sense of graduating,
but in the extraordinary sense of becoming college graduates who are graduating into a graduate school.

Unfortunately, however, Davidson offers no course in the art of surviving graduate school. To dispel some of the mysterious aura
enveloping this higher form of education, several younger members of the faculty offered their views of graduate school and what
the Davidson student can expect.

Hansford Epes, currently teaching German as well as working toward his doctorate at UNC, emphasized that the major differences between
Davidson and graduate school result from their design to perform different jobs.

“The aim of a graduate school,” said Epes, “is to give professional training—whether it be as a teacher, doctor or
lawyer. Davidson's aim is to give a good broad, liberal education.”

Epes denounced the present structure of graduate education because, as he said, “Graduate schools are rare that include in their
program work that is directly related to the needs of classroom teaching.

“The orientation is toward ‘scholarly research’ which gives a deep knowledge of the subject. This is the teacher's first need,
but not his only one.”

Epes vented his wrath mostly against the doctoral dissertation. “This thesis,” he added, “is known somewhat romantically as a contribution
to learning. All too often it is really a lengthy exercise in belaboring the pointless.”

On the subject of professors, Epes classified his graduate teachers as “more learned, but less inspiring.”

“Their goal,” he explained, “is not to inspire and teach. In this slightly phony ‘teaching vs. research’ dichotomy, their concern
is with research.”

Epes emphasized that he is not chasing after some semi-literate dilettantism, nor is he belittling research. His complaint is with
the rigidity of the system in graduate education, its archaic requirements and the length of time it takes.

Norman Johnson, history instructor, has done graduate work atboth UNC and Johns Hopkins. He found the major difference between Davidson
and graduate school to be the amount of freedom. “At Hopkins,” he explained, “I was asked what field I was
in and assigned three classes. I was not required to attend any of them and had to take the final
exam in only one.” In his seminars, he was demanded to show a high degree of individual initiative and a
high standard of performance. Johnson added that he feels his preparation at Davidson was excellent, particularly in his major.

Leroy Percy, who recently joined the English department after completing graduate work at Cambridge, commented on the differences between American
and English graduate schools. “The graduate work in England,” said Percy, “is diametrically opposed to that in America. All work
is done independently, and one meets only occasionally with his supervisors.

Discuss Graduate Work

“You are handed a stack of books and told to read them. The idea,” Percy went on, “is that by
this time students are mature enough to keep their own noses to the grindstone. Americans, however, used to academic pressures,
often go wild.” “I enjoyed every minute of graduate school,” added Percy. “All the instruction is there. It is merely
a matter of your taking the initiative to go get it.”

CONSULT PROFESSORS, SURVEYS, CATALOGS

Dr. Hight Counsels Davidsonians

SEPTEMBER 30, 1966

“Good schools try to make their money count,” said Hight. “They try to draw the best students that they possibly
can. That's how they build their reputations.”

FEWER LOANS

“As a rule,” he continued, “a college will give out more in fellowships than in loans. For some reason, graduate
students don't seem to like to borrow money. “A lot of them end up marrying school teachers, which is really
an excellent way to smooth over financial problems.”

The DAVIDSONIAN Report, a bi-weekly feature which focuses on various topics affecting the Davidson student, this week presents a study
of graduate schools. For the benefit of the 70 percent of Davidson students who go on to some form of
graduate study, the topics of admission, financial aid, and the difference between undergraduate and graduate education are discussed on this
page.

Hight pointed to private foundations as a big source of fellowship money. “The highly competitive ones like the Danforth, Rockefeller,
or Woodrow Wilson are the ones you hear the most about, but there are other, smaller programs which offer a
student excellent opportunities.” Many business firms often will finance a graduate student's education. These agreements in nearly all cases are
in no way binding on the student, although, according to Dr. Hight, the companies involved “do hope to engender a
certain loyalty” in the students whose educations they finance.

DAVIDSON ASSISTS

Davidson offers all her interested students assistance in selecting graduate schools and in applying for financial aid, Hight said. The
faculty committee on graduate fellowships, chaired by Dr. George Abernathy, has been especially helpful in this area. Hight emphasized that
the best thing for a student interested in graduate school to do is to come to the guidance office and
take advantage of the growing library of graduate school information.

Staff Photo by Olson: ‘KNOW SOMEONE WHO KNOWS’

Dr. Puckett Knows Faculty, Independent Surveys Help Students Pick Schools

By BOB TRAVERS Managing Editor

An undergraduate can find very good indications of the caliber of a graduate school in the opinions of his professors
as well as through independent studies published by educational foundations, according to Dr. William B. Hight. The latter, summaries of
the faculties, effectiveness of programs, and reputations of graduate schools are available for Davidson students’ use in the student counseling
office, said Hight. “We order copies of these studies as soon as they are published.”

“But don’t use a single source,” he warned. “Professors generally are familiar with the graduate schools in their respective fields;
you should consult the school's catalogue and students attending that school. From these, you can get a pretty realistic view
of an institution.”

Dr. W. O. Puckett, professor of biology and advisor to pre-med majors, indicated that the same is true for medical
schools. “I don't think you can tell how good a med-school is from its catalogue,” he said. “You have to
know someone who knows.” A graduate school catalogue can tell only so much, Hight explained, but you should check it,
especially to get a picture of the faculty. “All members of a good graduate school faculty will have the PhD
degree—where they got their degrees makes a difference.” The reputations of faculty members in their respective fields are also important,
but, Hight pointed out, “those faculty members engaged in writing and research frequently aren’t doing much teaching.” The adequacy of
library, laboratories, and other facilities are an important consideration—a good indication of their completeness is the school’s reputation. “There generally
are no undeserved reputations,” Hight continued, “but neither is a given department likely to remain consistent over a number of
years due to a turnover in faculty members.”

“Furthermore, a professional or graduate school may be better than or not as good as the university of which it
is a part. You must pick the professional school or the department, not the university.”

“In the basic four-year science course,” Puckett contends, “all medical schools are teaching about the same things. For the basic
four-year program, I wouldn’t trade a small one for Harvard.” “Where a student has to be careful is where he
has his internship and/or residency.” Other considerations in judging both med-schools and graduate schools should be whether or not the
type of school or academic community is what the applicant is looking for and will be happy in, Hight continued.
In addition, whether or not he thinks he can get good financial aid from a given school should be a
major practical consideration in his evaluation of the school and whether or not he should apply for admission to it.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414

Hold that crease? You bet it will. If the fabric is one of the great, new permanent-press blends of 2-ply
polyester and cotton masterminded by Galey & Lord. For the new dimension in collegiate slacks, a GALAT & LORD, LECT
GROATEAY, OT, ENG 6 GEIGER OF GURUMETON mousTerce
