PAGE FOUR

FRESHMEN SHINE

State Strangles Local Grapplers

The Davidson wrestlers dropped their match to a strong ACC opponent, North Carolina State, on Friday. The grapplers anticipate a
better showing this week; they travel to Williamsburg Thursday to meet a fair William & Mary team. Last Friday's effort
against State was hampered severely by the absence of Terry O'Hair and Johnny Webb, both of whom suffered shoulder injuries
at East Carolina in a disheartening Valentine’s Day defeat. Erich Nichols bruised a rib resulting in another forfeited weight class.

The two bright spots for the ‘Cats were Joe Buffington, who easily decisioned his man, and Lowell Bryan, whose opponent
was overcome in the first period. Another encouraging facet of Friday’s encounter was the performances of several freshmen. In exhibition
matches, Colin Hudson and Dean Cromartie defeated members of the State varsity. In another interesting exhibition, freshman Terry Keith gave
two-time ACC champ Robert Brawley of Mooresville a run for his money before losing by decision.

Coach Charles Parker is getting back to work after an operation last week. Coach Dave Fagg took over during his
illness. Davidson’s match with The Citadel Monday could find Fagg with schizophrenic loyalties. Before coming to Davidson last year, Fagg
was responsible for building up one of the Southern Conference's strongest wrestling teams there and many of his proteges are
still around. The Southern Conference Tournament March fourth and fifth at Williamsburg should find the team in excellent shape and
near full strength with the return of Nichols and hopefully of O’Hair.

The Catfish with four meets in two weeks came out on the short end of the deal, 1-3, losing to
William and Mary, VMI, and Georgia, while posting a close win over Clemson. In an extremely close meet with W&M,
Davidson posted 47 points to the Indians’ 48. The key event was the finale, the 400-yard freestyle relay. Nip and
tuck all the way, the race was still up for grabs as anchor man Tom Irons hit the water. With
only a slight disadvantage, Irons seemed as if he could put a story-book end to the meet. In the last
inches of the race, however, he was touched out by his W&M opponent, Gil Bass, whom he had beaten earlier
in the 100-yard freestyle.

Hoping for better results farther west in Lexington, Coach Tom Stevens took his tadpoles to VMI. Here the story was
the same. Moaned Stevens, “They were a good team, and we had a very bad day. They put in their
best times of the season against us.”

Holt Eclipses Records, Readies For League Meet

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Richard Holt set two school records and racked up 97 points to pace Davidson’s swimmers this year. In the East
Carolina meet Holt posted a 2:19.5 in the 200-yard backstroke to better the old college record by .7 seconds. Then
in the final meet of the season against Georgia he shaved off 1.4 seconds from his old record in the
200-yard individual medley to set the new school record at 2:17.6 minutes.

“Holt is one of the finest swimmers I've ever seen," remarked Coach Tom Stevens. "He’s so relaxed in the water,
and that’s what it takes to be good. Ever since Christmas he’s been working real hard and that work has
paid off in steady improvement.”

“I've been swimming ever since I was about six,” commented Holt, a junior from Houston, Texas. “My first meets were
with country club teams, on the whole rather dippy!” Continued Holt, “My first serious competition swimming was in high school.
Our team wasn’t the best in the state, but we always made a respectable showing. It resembled the Davidson team,
better than the record shows.”

“My sophomore year in high school I came in fourth in the state meet in the individual medley,” added Holt.
“But during the state meet my senior year I swam the course four seconds better than my time two years
earlier, and failed to place!”

As a Davidson freshman, Holt set a pool record in the individual medley, and “picked up a few firsts here
and there.” “My swimming record as a sophomore can be described in one word,” quipped Holt, “Bad! I was suffering
from a terrible case of physics and organic! Studies sort of got the best of swimming that year.” Nevertheless, Holt
did win his letter.

“Right now we're all looking forward to the Southern Conference Meet next month,” noted Holt. “We all feel like the
team can make a good showing.” Added Stevens, “I’m expecting Holt to be a top contender in the individual medley.
The conference record is about three seconds better than Richard's best time, but with a little work, who knows?”

Concerning next year’s season, Stevens remarked, “If Richard Holt continues to improve like he has this year, I think he'll
be one of the finest swimmers Davidson has ever had.”

Last Tuesday the fish again took to the water, this time in Johnston Gym, and posted their only victory of
the series. Clemson, whom the Davidson team had expected to be an easy victory, put up a fierce battle. Tom
Irons, one of Davidson's strongest swimmers was beaten in the 100-yard free, his favorite race. Going into the 500-yard freestyle,The
meet was a tie. Gary Peklo, with his best time of the year, won a hard-fought second place; co-captain John
Helm grabbed third. Next came the 200-yard breaststroke in which Eddie Beach took a much-needed first place. Together with Peklo’s
second, Beach's first put the meet out of reach. On Wednesday, Georgia invaded the Davidson tank and left with a
sound win, 44-37. Strong in every event, Georgia, however, lacked depth, having most of the time only one man for
an event. In the early events, it looked as if the ‘Cats might pull the meet out. Most of the
times were fast. In the 200-yard breaststroke, all three swimmers bettered the school mark with the winning time of 2:17.5
being posted by Georgia. Coming up next on the agenda is the Southern Conference Meet to be held in Charleston,
S.C. next week. Richard Holt was the bright spot of the day for Davidson, setting a school record in the
200-yard breaststroke.

Cramming Clowning Mr. Wrangler PERMANENT PRESS SESS Shirts and Slacks of FORTREL* and cotton. From dawn to discotheque, they're really
with it... Permanently pressed 50% Fortrel polyester and 50% cotton make Mr. Wrangler your best buddy from early classes to
just-one-more-frug at midnight... and they’re guaranteed for one year’s normal wear. They stay like new forever. In a full range
of colors and styles. SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE FOR FAMOUS MR. WRANGLER SHIRTS & SLACKS or write Mr. Wrangler, 350
Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10001.

It is not extremely difficult to pick out Lowell Bryan in a crowd. After all, a fellow standing 6-6 and
weighing around 225 pounds is generally discernible. But the distinctive feature about Bryan so far has been his wrestling prowess.
He has been entered in a total of seven varsity matches this year, six of which he won by pins
and the seventh on a forfeit. Not only has he never lost in varsity competition here, but he has also
totaled the maximum number of points possible in so doing. All this he has done in his sophomore year. Coach
Dave Fagg, recently promoted to head wrestling coach during Coach Charlie Parker's illness, commented, “I think he has a lot
of potential. He has a lot of time ahead of him.” Bryan wonders how serious Fagg is, though, when he
sees his name written “Byran” on the board in the locker room. A striking individual, Bryan might seem the type
who would bare his teeth to the world; but, in reality, he displays a good sense of humor along with
a propensity toward arriving at a good joke. Bryan began his wrestling career in the seventh grade and continued it
through high school. In his junior year at Yorktown High School in Arlington, Va., he compounded an 8-1 slate for
the season. However, he lost his starting job his senior year by a close margin to the eventual state champion
of Virginia. Not one to dwell upon his own standing for long, Bryan commented on the team and its future.
“We are going to have a real loaded team next year, and we'll be strong in every weight class. I’m
looking forward to the rest of the season, even though we lack a couple of weight classes, and the tournament
is just around the corner.” Taking a look back on the season so far and, at the same time, ahead
to the Southern Conference Tournament to be held March 4-5, Bryan remarked that some tough opponents were to be found:
“I wrestled a good boy at The Citadel, and some of the rest in the conference are pretty good.”

Pipe Smokers: It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison
Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your
Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 percent discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
375-9723

Every Science, Engineering, and Math student should know about CSSTP before he makes up his mind about a career. Sign
up now at your placement office to get the story on CSSTP—from the IBM interviewer March 1. CSSTP means Computer
Systems Science Training Program. It’s an extraordinary IBM training program that enables you to use your technical knowledge and ability
in ways that may never occur to you unless you talk to the IBM interviewer. He’ll tell you about the
vital role of IBM's Marketing Representative. How he goes into major businesses to help solve their urgent management and control
problems. He'll spell out the challenges which face IBM's Systems Engineer. How he studies customer needs and computer requirements, and
develops systems solutions to their problems. In short, he'll describe all the unusual assignments in IBM’s more than 200 offices
from coast to coast. All are places where you can grow with IBM, leader in America’s fastest-growing major industry: information
handling and control. So don't miss your IBM interview. Visit your placement office and sign up now. If for any
reason you can't make it on campus, feel free to visit your nearest IBM branch office. Or write: Manager of
College Relations, IBM Corporate Headquarters, Armonk, N.Y. 10504. IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

DATA PROCESSING DIVISION
