FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A Freshman Plans, Schemes, Celebrates First Frolics

April is the month of showers, flowers, and the birds and the bees. At this time of year, signs of the Davidson gentleman's primitive instincts, precariously subdued since spring break, come bursting out all over. And so Davidson College, acquiescing to the mounting organic rumblings of the student body, schedules Spring Frolics to permit a brief excursion into the mysterious world of these birds and bees.

Since Spring Frolics is certainly no ordinary weekend, the freshman splurges and invites his best girl from back home. The chance to practice all the cool lines, approaches, and tricks which he has learned in three grueling months of pledge training has finally arrived. About two weeks in advance, he begins preparations by making a trip to the nearest ABC store—in Charlotte or Mooresville—with an older fraternity brother.

He spends the final week observing the coolest upperclassmen and putting the final touches on his technique. Already the frosh imagines himself as the classic hero James Bond, casually sweeping the raven-haired beauty off her trembling toes. He is ready to conquer the world in one glorious weekend.

His first disillusionment comes Friday afternoon when his date arrives grinning broadly and sporting ten new pounds which she did not need. They hug hello and spend the afternoon getting reacquainted and readjusted.

She: “Did you hear about Susie dropping out of school?"
He: “No kidding.”
He: “Did you know that Sam may get drafted?"
She: “Gee, that’s awful."

At the concert, they relax. She is relieved—for two whole hours she will not have to carry the burden of a conversation. He is relieved—for two whole hours he will not have to act interested.

After the concert, there is the long walk from Chambers to the fraternity house. Awkwardly out of tune with the romantic glow of soft moonlight and glittering stars around them, they hold hands and try to act natural. But the clasped hands cannot bridge the barrier.

At the after-party, the heretofore teetotaling freshman has betrayed himself by asking for a bourbon and whisky. The native freshman begins his dance; as the drinks take effect, the gyrations grow wilder. Then, hot and sweaty, he belts down a couple more drinks and takes his girl outside for a walk.

Every fraternity member feels compelled to add his own chapter to that unwritten masterpiece The Amorous Adventures of a Davidson Gentleman. And what better opportunity than this? She is “out of it,” and he is “in” just enough to know where to go and what to do. Unfortunately, some quickly discover that the girls are not quite as “out of it” as they had calculated: their clumsy advances are countered with a sharp rebuke. The more subtle, however, are more successful; but freshmen, gentlemen that they are, naively obey when she half-heartedly coos, “David, stop.”

On Sunday morning, the freshman doesn’t remember how he got back to the dorm, but he manages to roll off his mattress and take his girl to church. As he stares into the mirror with his bloodshot eyes, he realizes what a fool he was to get up so early.

In church, he is shocked because he feels no compulsion to beat his breast in penance. She sits motionless, bleary-eyed, ruffled, and looking much the worse for wear. Somehow they make it through the day—no questions asked. The time to leave. Mixed emotions. She does not want to go back and does not want to stay. He wants to go to bed. Unbelievably, they have had what is called a good time. And maybe a few have fallen in love for the first time. Maybe. After all, April is the cruelest month.

LAUGH, LOVE UNTIL HEART’S CONTENT Perfumed Petticoats and Daiquiri Smile

He blinked his sleepy eyes then yawned, showing a glimpse of a green tongue that the long winter's sleep had kept hidden like a miser’s first half-eagle. Slowly he began to rise, stretched oaken arms that were becoming fuzzy green with spring, staggered to his mirror, a clear pool of April rainwater, and splattered dogwood blossoms behind his ears. Davidson College was coming alive. And though they said he was dead gray sky and barren black limbs forever, again he showed them they were wrong as crystal blue and golden green cut across a winter world without color. The cynics were wrong again.

You remember his waking, woman? Remember? You came and saw him, little girl. I wonder, does he remember you? Does he laugh when he remembers how you came to celebrate his victory over blackness with red, dancing and throbbing music? Does he smile when he remembers how you left your world of perfumed petticoats to stamp another boy’s image on your travel bag, to add another notch to your spiked heels? Does he grin—like the toothless, fat, bald man who sells 10-year-olds filth from behind funny book stands—when he remembers watching you mouth ‘I love you’s’ and surrender a part of yourself so you could conquer your future doctor and be secure in the hold your lie had given you over him? Does he chuckle with you as he remembers your cleverness when you hid loneliness, the frightened awareness you needed to be needed, you wanted to be wanted, behind self-assured laughter, loudness, and shrieks of ecstasy? Remembering, does he find humor in the secret?

DANCING BEHIND LOCKED DOORS

Spring Frolics '66 will be an event far removed from comparable celebrations of 1901, 1925, or even 1953 when dancing was prohibited on campus and drinking was prohibited everywhere. Frolics has painfully emerged from “Junior Speaking,” a creation of the 1890s that served as a front for the Spring’s most important social event. Since no dancing was allowed on campus during the 1920-30s (it was both illegal and a sin to dance on campus until 1945), fraternities held dances off campus in exotic locales like Concord, Mooresville, and Charlotte (things really haven’t changed much).

NO DRINKING PROBLEM

No real “drinking problem” existed at this time because Davidson was attended only by Gentlemen, but the admissions committee did make a few errors, and a smallMinority did drink, but Dr. Chalmers Davidson, professor of history, stated that one drank at his own risk. The drinking rule during this period did not allow drinking on or off campus—even in a student’s own home, and Student Council officers were honor-bound to enforce this rule against all who were seen consuming the foul brew. Dr. Davidson said that he can remember hiding his roommate who was drinking at a fraternity party from the president of the Student Council, (the Betas have always been campus leaders, as history proves). Although student council members were honor-bound to report drinking violations, dancing on campus was not a violation of the student body regulations (only the faculty saw it as a sin). Dr. Davidson said he can remember dancing at the fraternity houses with the doors locked and the shades drawn. But the faculty was not completely governed by backward individuals during the late '30s. In 1938 it ruled that “square dancing” was not dancing but a “folk game,” so might be indulged in on campus. In 1944 under the leadership of President John R. Cunningham (“Slick John” to most people), the Trustees accepted the faculty’s recommendation that the students be permitted to hold their dances on campus.

CAMPUS DANCING

Since on-campus dancing was no longer a sin, the first dance took place on February 9, 1945, at the Alumni Gymnasium (now the College Union), and from that day onward, dancing on the campus of Davidson College has been legal. But what happened to the “drinking problem” while dancing emerged out of sin into righteousness? During the '40s the fraternity parties became rather “raunchy,” according to Dr. Davidson, and since student council members were honor-bound to report drinking violations, and fraternity presidents were forced to testify (there was no 5th Amendment), these students did not attend their own fraternity parties to avoid being forced to report their more fortunate friends. But this problem was solved during the reign of Dean Samuel R. Spencer. The dean ruled that student council members were not honor-bound to report drinking violations at fraternity parties, but bound only to enforce the “gentlemanly conduct” clause. This action was undoubtedly to do away with the “raunchiness” at the fraternity parties. But Dean Spencer moved on to bigger and better things and Dean John Bailey soon reversed the situation. Student council members and fraternity presidents were again put on the line.

NORTHERN CLOUD

Then a huge dark cloud out of the north began rolling into the Davidson College community. This is the dark cloud of “Student Agitation” which is still with us (its last appearance being the ill-fated vespers “boycott”). Such agitation resulted in a rule change to allow drinking off-campus. But as an example of how strictly the drinking rule off campus had been enforced, the son of the president of a nearby college who was attending Davidson in the early '50s was shipped home from school for having consumed a beer in Greensboro. As already stated (many words back), Spring Frolics evolved from Junior Speaking. The first Frolics was held on April 26 and 27, 1946, and consisted of a Formal Dance on Friday night (R.S.V.P., no less) and a semi-formal on Saturday night. Both dances were held in Johnston Gym.

FORMAL TRADITION

The tradition of a formal on Friday and a semi-formal on Saturday lasted until 1959 when the Frolics’ dances consisted of a semi-formal on Friday and casual wear on Saturday. By 1961 both dances had degenerated to informal, and now there aren’t even any dances. The highlight of the dances during the early ’50s was the “Figure” which was the grand march of all of the fraternity presidents and their dates. For a few years, a Queen of the Dance was elected by a faculty committee, but “since all the girls cried, not only the losers but the winner also, this event was abolished,” Dr. Davidson stated. During the early ’50s, when hoop skirts were “in,” a freakish event happened. The scene was the “Figure” at a Spring Frolics’ dance in Johnston Gym. There were no lights except for a globe hanging from the ceiling of the gym and a light behind the bandstand which silhouetted the couples. When the third couple met at the top of the bandstand to march down, the date, wearing a rather thin hoop skirt, and silhouetted by the light shining from behind, appeared completely naked before the Frolics’ crowd. Needless to say, faculty members corrected the problem. The history of Spring Frolics of Davidson has been a long and colorful one. We've moved from “Junior Speaking” to rock ’n’ roll singers and from “folk games” to after parties. Spring Frolics is obviously far different than it was 40 years ago. Wonder what it'll be like in the year 2000?

Spring Brings New Life, Time For Reflections

The Davidsonian

REPORT SPRING FROLICS EDITION

...the way you hid your humanity behind saintly sweetness that sugarcoated your desires, your mind, your personality, with sickly falseness. Or does he remember and laugh louder at the reef of smoke that encircled your head when as you professionally downed your first cigarette and perfunctorily coughed, “I’ve got to stop smoking so much.” Tell me woman, tell me little girl, did he remember you with a burning, lingering memory like the love that died yesterday, or were you as forgotten as a second kiss? Will he remember you tomorrow? Or are you just passing through draped in a short shift? Will your memory wrinkle for years to come the brow of the waking monster whose green hair is now being combed by beaten metal rakes? Who cares? Spring Frolics is here. You can laugh, love, lie, until your heart is content. It is wrong to wonder if you will be missed when you leave—or remembered tomorrow. So smile your daiquiri smile and tell us about the latest in stacked heels, today... still, what a shame if tomorrow you see life is not cocktails and small talk but beer and Little League.

“Coca-Cola” and “Coke” are registered trademarks which identify only the product of The Coca-Cola Company.

We admire your spirit, but you just don’t fit into the team. Coca-Cola is on everyone's team. That's because Coca-Cola has the taste you never get tired of... always refreshing. That's why things go better with Coke... after Coke... after Coke.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD