“by 9 Freshman Council Elect Mac Davis The Freshman Council elected Mac Davis, a native of Jacksonville, Fla., president by
acclamation Tuesday night at its weekly meeting in the College Union. Following the election, the council discussed the coming freshman-faculty
games and made plans for the freshman-sophomore field day.

Dave Wasserman, of Cincinnati, Ohio, was elected secretary. The freshman-sophomore field day will be held Oct. 27 from 1:30 -
3 p.m. Events include basketball, volleyball, swimming, cross country, and a tug of war. The freshmen sponsor a freshman-faculty sports
challenge in the near future and the possibility of buses running between Queens and Davidson will be explored.

MAC DAVIS

Beanies Substitute for Frosh Hazing By BOB BUCHANAN Staff Writer

Beanie-wearing, Davidson's long-time freshman tradition, was at first only a substitute for hazing according to the man most responsible for
its founding. Dr. Armand L. Currie, a 1921 graduate and now a retired Presbyterian minister here, says beanies were first
put on freshmen heads as a “compromise to upperclassmen when hazing was outlawed.” Prior to 1923, hazing was rampant on
the Davidson campus as it was on most other college campuses.

“Things were pretty bad,” said Currie. “The freshmen and sophomores were fighting all the time. There was a big chinaberry
tree where the Dana Science Building is now. The branches of this tree touched the ground and all day long
the freshmen and sophomores fought under the tree.

“The athletic teams and fraternities were the principal proponents of hazing at initiations. Freshmen were badly beaten and sometimes badly
injured.”

As president of the Student Council in 1921, Currie was concerned about this hazing. “I thought that the student body
should grow up.” The situation reached its worst point that year when all the lettermen were expelled from school as
a result of the severe hazing. They were readmitted only after the D Club was abolished.

Currie remained in Davidson two years after his graduation as secretary of the YMCA, principal of Davidson High School, and
coach of the Davidson College baseball team. An underlying reason for his remaining was the hope that he could do
something to abolish hazing permanently.

“In the second semester of 1923, the student body voted to discontinue hazing for three months. This experiment was very
successful and at the end of the period the student body voted to discontinue the tradition of hazing freshmen. This
resulted in a new regime. From then on freshmen were required to wear beanies as a compromise measure.”

To Currie's knowledge, Davidson was the first school to initiate the practice of freshmen beanies and one of the first
Southern schools to reform the hazing policy.

Currie had pastorates in a number of states, most recently Nashville, Tenn., before retiring to Pine Road in Davidson. He
is married to the former Eloise Martin, daughter of Dr. W. J. Martin, college president while Currie was a student.

Leftist Group Alters Objectives By KENNETH HAMILTON Staff Writer

The Committee for Student Action modified its objectives at its first meeting Wednesday night. Although CSA organizer Dan Mombrea, who
was unanimously elected president, stated, “We want to be a pacifist organization,” the members voted to eliminate the sections covering
opposition to the ROTC graduation requirement and to intervention in South Vietnam. Also eliminated were the sections concerning civil rights
and poverty.

The statement of purpose, finally approved, pledged to work for increased “student academic freedom and ... an intellectual atmosphere on
campus and/or continually protest, and strive to explore the possibilities of alternatives to militarism.” Mombrea emphasized the importance of the
“student/CSA” relationship within the “liberal movement” of the Davidson student body. He further stated that STEP, which is an “outgrowth
of the former YMCA tutorial program,” and CSA are “two completely independent organizations, related only in that they are both
concerned with reform activities in the Davidson community.”

The Student Tutorial Education Project and the Committee for Student Action this week released a statement to clarify the position
of each with respect to the other. The release stated that STEP will be specifically concerned with reform activities in
the Davidson community “across the tracks,” while CSA will concentrate on “reform activities on the Davidson campus.”

Dorfie Lang, who worked with Mike Nurzis and Marvin Sparrow to found STEP, released a statement that STEP would start
Monday working in the Cornelius Elementary School with sixth graders on a “one-on-one basis.”

Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1966

SINGS HOMECOMING — Dionne Warwick will provide the entertainment Saturday night of Homecoming, Oct. 29, in Love Auditorium. Friday night
in Johnson Gym the Righteous Brothers with Nino Temple and April Stevens will be the featured attractions. The Social Council,
in an effort to bring higher quality weekend entertainment to the campus, is innovating a policy of selling tickets to
the concerts, not only for off-campus people attending, but for students as well.

College Ranks High In Rating Of Schools

Davidson has been ranked 34th in the nation among private colleges and universities and the first college among Southern schools
by “The College Rater.” According to the American Association of University Professors, Davidson is ranked ninth in the nation among
liberal arts colleges in faculty compensation. In the South alone, Davidson ranks first among colleges and fifth among colleges and
universities. According to the President's office, this is an improvement from last year.

“The College Rater” judges on the basis of student-faculty ratio, admissions standards, the proportion of graduates entering graduate school, the
size and quality of the library collection, the number of National Merit Scholars, the proportion of the faculty with Ph.D.,
and faculty compensation. “The College Rater” uses a system of determining the rank of colleges and universities on the basis
of specific factors, according to President D. Grier Martin.

SURVEY SHOWS Heavy Majority Of Freshmen Calls Social Program Good

“The social program at Davidson is generally good,” 70 percent of the freshmen polled in a recent Davidsonian survey believe.
Out of 30 freshmen surveyed, 21 described the social program as “good,” five labeled it “outstanding,” and four said it
“needs much improvement.”

“I think social activities here are well organized,” freshman Athles Kine commented. “There should be more transportation, such as buses
to Charlotte and to football games.”

“I think the Social Council is wasting too much money on bad combos and other undesirable activities, such as square
dances,” Dan Shepard remarked. “I suggest that the Social Council use money it would normally use on things like square
dances.”

Worship Service Gets Favorable Response

Students, faculty, and administration have expressed a very favorable reaction to Davidson's first Wednesday night “prayer meeting.” The first in
a two-month series of voluntary worship services oriented toward the student body was held in Lingle Chapel Wednesday night at
7 p.m. An almost equal number of students and faculty attended the half-hour service led by the Rev. Will Terry
of the College Church and featuring a five-minute meditation by the Rev. William Morris of St. Albans Episcopal Church.

The service, which was designed specifically for an ecumenical congregation, provided the opportunity for participation by the congregation in several
responsive readings including an adaptation from T. S. Eliot's “Murder in the Cathedral.” Most of those interviewed pointed out the
opportunity present for closer faculty-student worship experience. “Informality” and “variety” were the words most often used to describe the service.By
JIM COOLEY Staff Writer

Despite the informal approach of the service, "It was not," said junior Bobby Lane, "like Sunday morning at 11 a.m."
He expressed interest that the new approach would evolve into a program led entirely by faculty and students. Cecil Clifton,
also a junior, was impressed by the congregational participation and the variety in the types of services which are to
be held in the future. He pointed to the "potential for a closer spirit of worship between students and faculty"
as the most outstanding feature of the new program.

According to Clifton, Wednesday evening was an appropriate time for the service in order to get away from "the stigma
of Vespers." Dr. Max Polley, associate professor of Bible and religion, termed the service "effective." He indicated that services in
the coming weeks will vary greatly in style and probably would not be as "liturgical" as the opening one.

In discussing the small turnout, he expressed hope that the congregation would increase in number and added that "if it
meets their needs, they will be there." Next week's service will highlight the music and writing of Bob Dylan. Two
Dylan songs will be presented as hymns by Henry Whitfield, David Fare, and Doug Pratt.

Economist Heads Chapel Speakers

Economics professor Paul Craig Roberts will be the featured speaker in chapel next week. Following a free cut during Monday's
chapel, the Conservative Club will present Roberts, who is coming from Virginia Polytechnic Institute to speak on "The Modern Mind."
Will Terry, pastor of the College Presbyterian Church, is in charge of the chapel program on Thursday.

Newly-Elected President Mombroa (Standing—Left) Guides Organization of Committees

FRONTIS JOHNSTON

STUDENTS BIG SUCCESS (See Page Six)

NUMBER FIVE

Committee To Draft Faculty Constitution

Faculty Chooses 4; Martin To Pick 3

Four members of a seven-member constitution committee were elected by the faculty Tuesday. The four members, who will serve with
three others to be appointed by President D. Grier Martin, are Dr. George Abernethy, Dr. Alan Brinkley, Dr. Louise Nelson,
and Dr. Brown Patterson. The constitution committee was created as part of "an attempt to regularize procedures and give them
a form," according to Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston. Part of the impetus for the move toward a constitution
came from the Visiting Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, which last year noted the lack
of a written constitution, and suggested the need for one.

Later in the year, the trustees adopted a set of rules which would govern voting procedures in the faculty until
the faculty adopted a constitution. The committee is supposed to finish the constitution next spring and send it to the
faculty in time for the May meeting of the Board of Trustees, which must also adopt it. Although the constitution
is not expected to make any radical changes, Brinkley commented that "it would be impossible to produce a document that
will maintain the same practices," since it will be necessary to decide between alternate procedures.

Johnston announced to the faculty that Davidson is "now authorized to certify teachers when they have gone through our course."
The certification came from the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction. The faculty also heard the recommendations from the Religious
Life Committee that faculty open house be held during October 8-10 p.m. on Sundays and for the rest of the
semester by invitation from faculty members to classes and individuals. Open house would not be compulsory.

Project Alters County's Face

Such developments as the building of Interstate 77 and Lake Norman are among the changes that are bringing a new
look in the north end of Mecklenburg County. What difference will the changing face of the North End make to
the town of Davidson and the college? To answer these and other questions, THE DAVIDSONIAN talked to officials with the
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, faculty members, and executives with the new General Time Plant. The results of their probing are
found in this week's DAVIDSONIAN Report found on page three.
