FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966
By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

LIKE THE MAGNOLIAS

On the masthead of the Wake Forest school newspaper, the Old Gold and Black, is superimposed the motto of the
Wakie Weekly “Covers the Campus Like the Magnolias.” Some people on the staff of the OG&B (as the local lingo
of Baptist U. calls it) seem to have stuck their heads out from under the magnolias (and heaven only knows
where the magnolias are at Wake Forest that could cover the campus of any school) and taken the initiative to
rub a little salt into the wounds of last week's somewhat less-than-pleasant run of luck for Davidson basketball fortunes. Such
a hardnosed reporter must be Associate Sports Editor Bill Nelson, of Co-Editors Carol Claxton and Sherry Pryor’s OG&B.

I'm not at all sure what Billy means by his letter. Perhaps it’s a personal attack on me (note “sports
writer Bill Briggs!”), or an attack on Coach Driesell, or on THE DAVIDSONIAN, or on our schedule, or the Southern
Conference, or our basketball team; quite frankly, I just don’t know what it is. Mr. Nelson must take my column
too seriously if he believes everything he implies in the following letter, but I like his spunk so I’m giving
the boy a chance to go big-time this week...

Dear Editor:

Well, it looks as if the Israelites have defeated the mighty Philistines again. In the words of THE DAVIDSONIAN sports
writer Bill Briggs, “Even last week another David was hurling a rock into the eye of a Goliath. For another
white-legged, scrawny, little kid, a 98-pound weakling rose out of the sea somewhere in Maryland (North Carolina, this time) and
stalked a new bully, striking him a death blow...”

Actually, the outcome of the Wake-Davidson game last week came almost as much of a surprise to us as did
the result of the first game of the season, but we certainly could not consider it “a fluke” as did
Mr. Driesell following the first game. But, in view of the publicity which both teams have received in recent weeks
(mostly through your own newspaper) we have found it virtually mandatory to add our own remarks at your expense.

After reading much of the information concerning your basketball team, it appears to us that some writers consider the Wildcats
to be an unapproachable animal which completely devours all smaller animals but somehow, through some scheduling “fluke” manages to frighten
away any larger animals which attempt to infringe upon its rights as ruler of the kingdom. But, according to Mr.
Briggs, this title of ruler of the roost is forgotten each year as the Wildcats “prove their kindness once each
year in a senseless neighborhood free-for-all when they let the fellows who used to trounce him bring back old times
by beating up on him again.” Oh, the irony of it all. Here is the “Robin Hood, Superman, Hercules, Lyndon
Johnson all rolled into one” which suddenly turns benefactor in order to give the peasants a chance. Indeed, this appears
to be the only rationalization out of this dilemma which seems to plague the Wildcats each year.

We were glad to see, however, that you did choose to call those losses to us as upsets rather than
gifts for there is some consolation there. But whatever they were, we have still found Davidson to be that oasis
in the desert for which many smaller animals look when they cannot find enough water to keep alive. For after
that opening game victory, we were beginning to feel like that “98-pound weakling” of which you spoke. Within the space
of one month, we had lost twice to the nation’s number one ranked team, Duke, and dropped single games to
St. Joseph’s, Vanderbilt, and Cincinnati, ranked among the top ten teams last week.

However, all was not lost—it was almost time to play the Wildcats again. Since we were deeply mired in last
place in the ACC, who would suspect that Davidson would have anything but an easy time—especially when they are trying
so hard “to show the nation’s skeptics that we deserve a national ranking.” But everyone says, “look at the record,
look at the games the Wildcats have won.” Yes, Davidson does have a fine record. But what ACC team wouldn't
have if it were able to play all its games against Southern Conference teams? We will turn to the record
for further evidence. This year, the SC has done better than in many previous years against ACC competition, winning five
while dropping ten. However, the SC margins of victory have totaled 45 points while the ten losses have been by
a margin of 208 points.

Of course, Davidson has not helped in this inter-league rivalry as far as the SC is concerned this year, and
it is probably a good thing they haven't played “good” teams since they have lost both their games to the
cellar dwellers. On the basis of this, we wonder how you can consider yourself as “29 points better than the
nation’s number one team, Duke.” Maybe you should try to prove your worth by scheduling teams in the “upper echelon”
of the ACC. But we keep forgetting, you would rather play Bucknell, Dartmouth, and Ohio University, etc. We do note
with considerable relief that you have scheduled St. Joseph’s and NYU in coming games. This is definitely a turn in
the right direction. If St. Joseph’s is still nationally ranked by the time you play them, it will definitely enhance
your chances for a national ranking if you could beat them. It is only by playing teams of this caliber
(and beating them) that you can consider yourself as worthy of that national ranking—not by playing your conference teams which
in all probability will never be ranked nationally. We realize that you are forced to play those games within your
conference, but we do hope that it is with good intentions that Mr. Driesell has said, “We'll play anybody, anytime,
anyplace.” It is true, that while your record will not be outstanding after playing some top-ranked teams, at least you
will find out how to play under pressure. You seem to have had trouble with Wake as well as your
own conference teams when the chips are down, and we hope you will not find it convenient to allow your
kindness to show forth again in the “senseless neighborhood free-for-all.” We at Wake Forest and those at other schools around
the ACC would like to see if you really are 29 points better than the Duke Blue Devils.

Sincerely,
Bill Nelson, Associate Sports Editor
Old Gold and Black

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Blair Quits ’Cats For Colorado U.
By K. D. WEEKS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coach Ken Blair, an outstanding element of this year's “New Look” in Davidson football, returned Monday to the University of
Colorado, his alma mater, whose freshman team he coached before coming to Davidson. “He couldn't afford to turn it down,
in fact, he was tickled to get back to Colorado where he was before,” commented Coach Tom Couch. “But he’s
a great guy and we hate to see him go.” Said Coach Homer Smith concerning the departure, “We were, of
course, very surprised and disappointed, for it was on very short notice that he left. But I accept the fact
that it was a question of his Alma Mater and more money, and he had no choice. In this profession,
moving is part of it.” The coaching staff, which incidentally threw several going away parties for him, is left with
Blair's offensive line coach position to fill. “He did an outstanding job in that position,” said Athletic Director Tom Scott.
In his new capacity in Colorado, Blair will start immediately recruiting and helping to build for next year. His recruiting
assignment there will probably be the state of New Mexico as it was prior to coming to Davidson. He was
praised and admired by players and coaches alike. As one player mused, “He was what you might call a ‘rough’
coach.”We all liked him but hated to see him come to practice because we knew he demanded that little extra.
He was always the first to say ‘give me one more, hit him again’ during a particular drill." Another commented,
“he’s a tough man himself, he’s commanded a lot of respect among the boys but he's a lot of fun,
too."

IMAC Basketball Drags On Slowly

In spite of the absence of some teams during the week, IMAC basketball continued in limited action. In yesterday's close
one, the Betas could not make up for their rebound disadvantage and fell to the Phi Gamms, 62-56. Johnny Little
pumped in 15 for the winners, while Mac Otis paced the Betas with 14. The game featured a half-court, running
jump shot by Jimmy Poole. Earlier in the week, David Jennings paced the Independents to a 73-42 victory over the
downtrodden Pikas. The Sigma Chis easily trounced the Phi Delts, with Joel Williamson and Tommy Clayton scoring 22 and 17,
respectively. Allen Johnson had 11 for the Delts, and Ronnie Hunt added 10. In the only freshman game of the
week, Cannon B whipped East B, 58-55, in overtime, in an unofficial contest (both opponents failed to show). K. D.
Weeks led all scorers with 18 before retiring due to lack of stamina. Toby Westmoreland canned 17 for Cannon.

Held For Coach Dole

Memorial services were held at 3:30 this afternoon for former Davidson football coach William E. Dole, who died of a
heart attack at his home in Hickory. Dole was head football coach at Davidson for 13 years. He resigned in
November 1964 and entered private business after turning down several other coaching offers. He came to Davidson in 1952 after
serving as head coach at East Carolina College and producing for that school its best record prior to 1950. Upon
learning of Dole's death, President D. Grier Martin stated: “The Davidson College community is very much saddened to learn of
Coach Dole’s death. His long tenure as head coach of the Wildcats speaks for itself and of the college's esteem
for him. His efforts on behalf of the young men whom he coached were untiring and will be remembered with
gratitude by all of us.”

Dole received his BS degree from West Virginia University in 1932. He studied in Germany in 1933. He launched his
coaching career in West Virginia, guiding teams at Guyan Valley, Weston, and Bluefield. His coaching career in North Carolina covered
19 years, and his full college coaching record is 58-79-5. After leaving Davidson, Dole joined the First National Bank of
Catawba County as personnel and public relations manager and later became assistant vice-president. While Dole coached here, the Wildcats posted
a record of 43 wins, 66 losses, and four ties. In 1964 the Wildcats won three and lost six. “We
were very much saddened by the news of Coach Dole’s death," said Athletic Director Tom Scott. “Davidson College and the
hundreds of young men who knew and worked with Coach Dole are in his debt.”

Modern Reasonable

THE OAKS MOTOR COURT
344 South Main Street
Mooresville, N.C. 28115
Owners and Mgrs. Bill and Hazel Sprinkle
Telephone 663-5693

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

PAGE FIVE

Swimmers Swamp Two; Roanoke, Appalachian Fall
By DON SEWELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s swim team added two victories by defeating Roanoke and Appalachian in meets Tuesday and Wednesday. The win over Roanoke
here on Tuesday went to the Catfish by a 60-34 score. Leading the squad to victory was Richard Holt with
wins in the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard backstroke.

KEN BLAIR “He's A ‘Rough’ Coach”

Holt turned in his best times of the year in each of these events with a 2:18.6 in the medley
and 2:23.3 in the backstroke. Tommy Irons was also a two-event winner, finishing first in both freestyle events, the 100
and the 200-yard.

Ed Beech swam his best time of the year in the 200-yard breaststroke with a 2:37.3.

To Start Season

International Cuisine

In foreign waters on February 19, the swimmers of Coach Tom Stevens outswam Appalachian 71-23. Once again, Irons won the
100 and 200-yard freestyle races. His time in the 100-yarder set a new record for Davidson at 52.8 seconds. Voit
brought in two more firsts with wins in the 200-yard individual and the 200-yard backstroke. Beech continued his winning ways
in the 200-yard breaststroke, while John Helm added a victory in the butterfly.

FABULOUS DINING

Davidson's indoor track team will kick off its winter season with a hexagonal “Big Six Meet” in Chapel Hill tomorrow.
Both varsity and freshmen from UNC, State, Wake Forest, Duke, North Carolina College, and Davidson will compete for the honors.

Events for the meet include a 60-yard dash, 70-yard high hurdles, 440, 1000-yard run, two-mile relay, one-mile relay, one-mile run,
shot put, pole vault, high jump, and broad jump. As for the freshmen, who will open the meet with preliminary
events against other freshmen, Coach Heath Whittle notes that sprinters Greg Cox, Tom Scovill, Mike Thornton, and Charles Cameron, and
distance men Randel Phillips and Mike Moats will be names to watch for success. “These,” says Whittle, “are real good,
and we also have a good shot putter in Roane Cross.”

Phone La Roma

Varsity competitors who show promise are David Brown and Lou Hill in the hurdles, Steve Gill in the 880, and
Star Evins in the 60-yard dash. John Fagg and Randy Randolph are standouts in the shot put.

TASTEE FREEZ
Cornelius
Pizza Sandwiches Ice Cream

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has
the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID
card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
375-9723

MIDWINTERS!

We Can Clean Your Suits and Sport Coats
Wash Your Good Shirts so as to look neat for the weekend.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Main St.—Across From The Gulf Station

Rendezvous in Charlotte at:

OPEN KITCHEN
Morehead
PIZZA SPECIALTY”

Gurley SO Service
Main and South Streets
892-9304
Davidson, N.C.

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

“I am very happy with the way Tommy Irons, Ed Beech, and Richard Holt have been working. All three have
improved their times considerably and we hope they will help us in the conference meet,” Stevens beamed after Wednesday's victory.
In the only night meet of the season, the Cats will swim against East Carolina Monday at 8 p.m. “Eastern
Carolina is probably the strongest team in the conference this year. We hope many people will turn out for this
important night meet,” Stevens added.

INTERESTED IN AN OVERSEAS CAREER?

Prof. Wm. P. Cochran, Jr.
Career Counselor
will be on the campus February 15, 1966 to discuss the training offered at A.I.F.T. (an intensive nine months program
of post-graduate study) and the job opportunities open to graduates in the field of INTERNATIONAL TRADE and GOVERNMENT SERVICE. Interviews
may be scheduled at PLACEMENT BUREAU.

The American Institute For Foreign Trade
Thunderbird Campus
PHOENIX, ARIZONA
An Affiliate Of The American Management Association

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub

GASKEY FLORIST & GIFTS
NEILL & N. Main St.
Mooresville
Phone 662-3681

Tired of Your Old Clothing? Then STOP IN AND REFRESH YOUR WARDROBE... See Our New Arrivals

John Mack & Son

Mooresville
2-385 N. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.
