Che Dauvidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY
Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
CHRIS HAWK Business Manager
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Double Standard

The Athletic Department’s practice of hiring tutors for athletes experiencing academic difficulties has absolutely no place in the academic structure of the college. Despite the fact that officials on the football coaching staff have passed the practice off with the explanation that it’s been done for years, it’s obviously been done surreptitiously for years, for few persons on campus not directly connected with the activities were aware of their existence.

Supporters of Davidson’s extensive intercollegiate athletic program have always justified it on the grounds of bringing to the school scholar-athletes who are superior in the classroom as well as the gridiron or basketball court. The argument itself holds little water when one considers the fact that the Admissions Committee will lower ordinary standards for admission in order to recruit an outstanding prep football or basketball player. As Lefty Driesell told the freshmen during Orientation last month, “The taller they are, the lower the standards.”

If Davidson’s athletes are going to be a part of the academic community as well as the physical, they should be treated as such. By providing the tutoring service, the coaching staffs are admitting that a number of players on athletic scholarships are placed in an abnormal position and cannot keep pace with the normal academic work. Ordinary students, that is, those who make no contributions in the significant fields of basketball and football, have no coaches scouring the dorms to find tutors. And when they do find tutors on their own initiative, they pay for them from their own resources, not from a contingency fund for such purposes.

A Cruelty Joke

What at first appeared as almost a cruelty joke in Georgia has now reached proportions which could not be thought of as humorous by even the most distorted mind. The nomination last week of segregationist Lester Maddox as Democratic nominee for governor was a miscarriage of justice in the first place. The 51-year-old restaurant owner who sold ax handles to finance his Supreme Court appeal over the closing of his segregated restaurant took advantage of a white backlash caused at least in part by the efforts of Stokely Carmichael’s Black Power movement to defeat moderate Ellis Arnall.

Arnall, who had given Georgia one of its best administrations in the 1940s, was also a victim of a heavy Republican vote going solidly for Maddox, in the belief that Maddox would be an easier opponent for Goldwater Republican Howard Callaway, who will carry the GOP standard in November. But Maddox’s victory, if seen as a joke, lost all humor when Georgia lost the brightest spot on its political scene. The courageous announcement by Rep. Charles R. Weltner that “I cannot compromise with hate, I cannot vote for Lester Maddox,” signaled his withdrawal from the position of Democratic nominee for the Congressional seat in his Atlanta district.

Weltner, who visited the Davidson campus in 1965 and is well known for having been instrumental in having the House Committee on Un-American Activities investigate the Ku Klux Klan, was the prototype of the New South: young, intelligent, progressive, but with an understanding of the South’s heritage and traditions. His uncompromising stand is an admirable one and cannot help but increase his stature in the eyes of reasonable people. But it is a costly one to the South generally and in particular, to Georgia. Weltner’s decision was forced by an absurd law brought by the Democratic Party forcing its candidates to support other Democratic nominees in the November general election, in a vain attempt to preserve the vestiges of the one-party system that has been instrumental in preventing the South from reaching political maturation.

Welcome, CSA

The latest addition to the seemingly endless list of student organizations — Committee for Student Action — brings a refreshing outlook to the campus. Organized along the lines of activist groups on other campuses, CSA has outlined an ambitious program for work in affairs of national and international significance. On a campus known for its umbilicus scrutinization, to put it euphemistically, it’s a welcome change to find students and faculty willing to work with the “real” world, crass and cruel though it may be.

Any previous organized interest on campus has been predominantly restricted to the Young Republicans, who have been satisfied with supplying novice God-and-Motherhood candidates with a platform for words of inspiration. Furthermore, despite the fact that Davidson has always had its fringe liberal groups, small though they may be, it has never before had a group bringing the various interests together under the auspices of a single mother organization.

Activism is the key to the age in American colleges and universities. Everywhere students are becoming involved in causes that were untouched by the “Silent Generation” that preceded today’s student generation. Though Davidson is somewhat late getting into the picture, there are still several areas of life open for CSA to correct. Even those who disagree with either the committee’s goals or methods can benefit from having such a group on campus, for hopefully the organization of CSA will be only the first step in the establishment of a dialogue between opposing viewpoints on issues of lasting social concern.

The South May Rise Again

The current hassle over the playing of “Dixie” by the Wildcat Band is undoubtedly one of the typically Davidson issues that regularly reoccur, in the lack of any more substantial point of disagreement. Whether or not the band plays the song actually makes little difference, except on the one hand to a few die-hard Southerners who see the song as something of a national anthem and on the other to the original protestors. For most reasonable people, the song represents nothing more than a rousing fight song, not a throwback to racial bigotry. Drawing an analogy between the song and the sorrier aspects of Southern race relations is utterly ridiculous.

But what is disgusting is the ability of a handful of individuals to dictate what the band will play or not play. Athletic Director Tom Scott made no effort to picture the move as a concentrated effort by any substantial number of concerned individuals. Indeed, the only objections listed were those of two faculty members and several unidentified alumni who were concerned that Davidson’s seven Negro students might be offended. Since the day the “suggestion” came from Dr. Scott’s office, the move has found little support except from those originally involved. On the other hand, a strong feeling exists in a number of students and faculty members that the band should restore “Dixie” to their repertoire. Since the Wildcat Band is independent of administration control, there is no reason for the band to fail to do so. Besides, loss of “Dixie” would virtually deplete the band’s already slim repertoire.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Thel Proposes Alternative To Athletics

Dear Editor:

Re: “Freshmen Defend Subsidized Athletics” discussion in your September 30 number. I shall attempt to abstract from the two letters their most significant arguments, which will then be cleverly refuted. Having done that, I will ask that you consider my suggestion for a program to replace subsidized athletics. Indeed, I do believe that I have discovered the alternative that Mr. Davis despaired of finding.

1. Davidson is perhaps truly one of the finest small all-men’s church-related token-integrated private four-year rural reasonably selective colleges of its type in the southern part of North Carolina. If this affirmation was part of an argument, I am hardly convinced that our categorical success is part of the recent advent of a “growing football tradition.” If it wasn’t, I wonder why the assertion was made, though I am at least happy that Mr. Davis is happy with his selection of schools.

2. It might be true that athletics engender a certain variety of low-grade school spirit, but I doubt that there is any necessarily positive correlation between the degree of subsidization and the amount of excitement produced, no Jock’s Law, so to speak. Besides, excitement unguarded might be undesirable. The Romans put on pretty wild shows with (unpaid) gladiators, and lots of spectator participation by use of thumb, we are told. The football fan’s dream, one might think. Yet some classical scholars maintain that such activity led eventually to dissatisfaction on the part of spectators with mere spectacle; they often developed very sensual, ungentlemanly habits that they followed between matches.

In any case, I see evidence of a great deal of student enthusiasm for the football team at Adelphi. There, according to their 1965 annual, not only was there no subsidization, but there was no team. Many students wanted one though, so they themselves organized a team and convinced a high school teacher to be their coach. This I consider an example of real group participation, a legitimation of the “we” in “we beat” or “we lost.”

3. Even if small-time competition did injure morale, what difference would it make? Perhaps people made unoccupied by not desiring to attend games we would lose would discover more purposeful activities. Actually, I think this competitive spirit stuff is a bad thing to carry over into later life anyway. Certainly not very Christian.

4. Not being a freshman, I don’t understand the dynamics of growth of educational institutions, but it doesn’t seem especially noble of hardy Scotch-Irish of this school to rely for its financial security on publicity given to minor league football and basketball successes. Possibly, some of us might think this a form of gambling. Of course, though, Jayne Mansfield or someone of that cleavage did say that: “Any press is good press.”

5. On money. There is a well-established practice known as double-entry bookkeeping (one of the few words in our language with three straight double letters). Athletic contests do draw crowds, among other things, but there are costs involved. The vast number of stainless steel marvels that massage and soothe our athletes surely cost a fortune. A quick glance at the telephone book will reveal that the Athletic Department maintains far more phones (and workers) than any other element of our bureaucracy. Scholarships that unfortunately do not provide automobiles but just everything else are still a fairly significant expense.

6. On respectable football teams. Davidson must decide whether it is willing to pay for respectable football teams.

7. On dumb bruisers. Modern equipment does indeed prevent many bruises.

8. On student-athletes. Is this new phrase to replace “gentleman and a scholar,” traditionally used in describing Davidson students? I think the juxtaposition of these two qualities even less justified than in...the old slogan. Recent happenings have indicated there might be a real problem in following both courses. Some student-athletes have faced an existential dilemma and have chosen to become student-ex-athletes. Fortunately, their scholarships were conditional on their remaining student-athletes. Truly, I have elegantly disproved all the old arguments. My solution follows. Here it is! What do we need? We need a category to feel comfortable in, we need school spirit, we need unity, we need money, we need a certain easily identifiable type of student. What did Trinity do? What did Wake Forest do? Though opposed in principle to the use of tobacco, they easily rationalized taking advantage of tobacco money waiting to be spent. Ask yourself what is the largest single source of untapped revenue in the country. Booze, obviously. In Demon Rum lies the answer. Think of all the distillers just waiting for a chance to justify their existence by being philanthropic. All Davidson need do is change its name to, e.g., Old Crow College and move to Frankfort, Kentucky. With just that much stirring, money will come pouring in, ho-ho. School spirits. Lots of it, mostly scotch and whiskey, in honor of the hardy founders. Each class could make its own brew over its college career and market the product. There would be opportunities for every student to participate. Rotund eggheads and philosophy majors could act as barkeeps, aristocratic students from Virginia and South Carolina could be tasters, English majors could write copy for advertisements, artsy-crafty types could design the labels (e.g., if this program had been initiated some years ago, the class of '69 could have pictured a freshman beanie on the label and called the potion Hat 69), pre-mins, though not participating directly, could gain valuable practice for later life by rationalizing the production of liquor that they were opposed to, perhaps not really in principle, to the consumption of. Untold numbers of students could drink the stuff, business majors could manage the production, history majors could compare us to Rome, the poorer students could make money collecting the bottles (good honest work), psychology majors could work out useful correlations between college boards and percentage of time spent drinking. The possibilities are practically without limit. As for school reputation, everyone would quickly admit that Old Crow was perhaps truly one of the finest small all-men’s church-related token-integrated private four-year reasonably selective booze-supported profit-making (from sale of own brew) colleges of its type in the central part of Kentucky. And progressive, too! Can there be any doubt but that my suggestions are not just remarkable, but practical?

TOM THEL
Davidson College

Freshmen Request Return Of ‘Dixie’

Dear Editor:

The Freshman Council, speaking for the Freshman Class, feels that the recent policy regarding ‘Dixie’ is regressive and deplorably narrow in attitude. The overwhelming response to the petition in favor of ‘Dixie’ shows the feelings of the student body. Contrary to the opinions of the Athletic Council, Davidson students are capable of taking the song in the proper frame of mind. We are now living in the latter part of the twentieth century, and we doubt sincerely that images of Civil War brutalities are brought forth by the spirited, lively renditions of ‘Dixie’ that are traditional at Davidson games. Davidson freshmen consider ‘Dixie’ a valuable asset to school spirit and fail to see any “racial overtones.” We strongly recommend that the Athletic Committee reconsider its stand in the light of student response.

THE FRESHMAN COUNCIL
Davidson College

Bad Precedent, Alumnus Claims

Dear Editor:

With reference to today's article in the Charlotte Observer concerning the removal of the Confederate flag from the Davidson gym and the elimination of the song ‘Dixie’ by the famous Dr. Scott, it is my feeling that athletics at Davidson are fine, but this move is going to the extreme such as the race riots in our larger cities. I am interested in what Dr. Scott and the others mentioned will do to your chapel service when some atheist objects to the singing of such songs as ‘Holy, Holy, Holy.’

C. LEONARD KENDRICK
Class of ‘56
Rock Hill, S. C.

Not An Insult, Answers Perry

Dear Editor:

To answer a question that has been asked me approximately 220 times: No, ‘Dixie’ does not offend me. For me ‘Dixie’ elicits no violent reaction. No sense of insecurity, nor fear of being forced back into slavery. I consider it to be a fight song which bears little traces of its origin or original purpose. In fact, it is a rather pretty song if one can use that description. So, if the student body wants to have ‘Dixie,’ I have no objections, although I wouldn't join a protest march to have it reinstated.

LEON PERRY
Davidson College

Quo Vadis? Guest Column

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

Granted he has a very strange name, but I can’t help being impressed by the authority he wields today, despite the opinions of many public opinion polls. Surely you know whom I’m talking about. That's it, Chris. Commit Mint (no one has ever explained why he has a period after his first name; it just exemplifies some of his eccentricities). You say you’ve heard of him but aren’t quite sure of his credentials? Well, perhaps I can refresh your memory somewhat although the story I'll tell to make my point is fairly lengthy. You see, Chris. is a kind of philanthropist. He’s not the ordinary kind of philanthropist; his philanthropy involves a kind of philosophy that he lives out in his unassuming way. Let me tell you about Chris. and D.C. (I know you've heard of Do-well Community). About 130 years ago Do-well was organized, and Chris. Commit Mint provided a large part of the motivation. I guess you could say Chris., or perhaps some of his followers, actually gave D.C. its start in life. Chris. had a hand in founding a lot of other institutions similar to Do-well, but, by the by, many of them gave Chris. a hard time for one reason or another and kind of jilted him and forgot what he had done for them. But Do-well figured it had something very worthwhile in its relationship with Chris., and as a result its ties remained solid. It should be mentioned at this point that Do-well did a lot to help Chris. too. Do-well sent a large number of its citizens all over the world trying to spread a knowledge of Chris. Commit Mint because they felt he was well worth knowing about. But just as important as these men were those ordinary citizens who left Do-well Community with a sound purposefulness and dedication to the cause of Chris. even as they carried on their jobs in their own communities. So it was that D.C. came to hold a place that was much envied in the world of similar institutions. Do-well evidently really did have something very worthwhile to offer. There were people who believed strongly in the type of institution Do-well Community was; these people supported it strongly with pecuniary rewards. A large part of this support came not despite D.C.’s ties with Chris. Commit Mint but because of the close relationship. Thus it was that D.C. progressed very rapidly, regardless of what many of its present members would tell you. Do-well has met many crises in its rise, and still it has many to face. There is always a certain amount of antagonism between those members of Do-well who live within its bounds and have the direct responsibility for running it and the rather sedate element that comes from all over the country into the Community two or three times a year to pass upon basic policy decisions and financing. But crisis was pending, for in the solitude of Do-well Community there arose grave questions as to the value of its close ties with Chris. Commit Mint. On one side there were cries that even the spirit of Chris. might limit severely the freedom of speech of the temporary members of the community and its resident leaders. D.C. had definitely reached a turning point, but it was having real problems knowing what to do, oftentimes the issue was not at all clearly drawn. What it came down to was a question of whether or not D.C. could achieve the heights it aspired to while retaining its connection with Chris. To be continued.

Class an individual to test his basic concerns with those of other styles. As a result it is no longer necessary for a person to concretely determine what he believes—what is at the core of his actions. Therefore, I aim my complaint at wholesale acceptance on the part of the individual of a preproportioned pattern of adult life directed toward intuitive goals of modern Western culture. The goals, as I conceive them, I do not find bad. I do find so, however, the unquestioned participation in pre-scribed “means” of attaining these goals. Society of its own nature is restrictive, repressive, directive; and usually of its own repressiveness promotes a tacit acceptance of its goals by the individual member without his giving the matter any reflective, analytic thought. Were I a supreme meditating power of sorts and did find that American middle-class values were the best, I should still require each individual to examine them, compare them with others and derive some understanding, on his own, why they might be taken as the best. Here, in our particular social pattern, this is left to the individual almost entirely; and it seems will hopefully be forgotten about altogether. But, I believe it to be one's duty as a rational, analytic, reflective being. In an emotional effort to assert this I would say—test it. Take your nose from between your knees. Look around. It is a filthy world. Use it. Smell it. It is filled with black people, red and white, who sweat and have hemorrhoids just like you, and who hold to some of the same values as you. Find out why. Find out that your style of life, this rut you are in, is neither a prerequisite nor an assurance for any good that is to be gained by mankind. Mess up your life a little. Screw it up. Tangle it up. Wrap it up, hang it on the wall and look at it. It is yours—straighten it out. Find some basics and how things are based on them. Pick. Sort out. Ask questions. Make something out of yourself that you can understand.