Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

CHRIS HAWK, Business Manager
LOUIS LESESNE, Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1966

Solution Needed Now

Last spring, amid predictions of rampant drunkenness, the student body voted out its restriction on the possession and/or drinking of
alcoholic beverages. With the repeal went the only truly effective means of maintaining the college’s dry campus. Since that time,
any action against liquor violations has been under the jurisdiction of the faculty's rules. Enforcement has been inconsistent and infrequent,
and students consequently have no idea of what the faculty’s attitude toward its own rule is.

Monday’s action in the disciplinary case involving a student being under the influence gives some indication of what faculty opinion
may hold. A certain amount of discontent is hardly deniable, when one considers the rarity of a decision of the
Executive Committee being overruled by the faculty as a whole. If nothing else, the action would seem to indicate that
the faculty does not support suspension as a punishment for a student’s being under the influence, despite the fact that
the rule states that violations will “ordinarily” result in suspension.

Likewise, there has been no statement on the faculty’s position on enforcement. The campus security officers have not noticeably clamped
down to take up the slack left by the absence of student enforcement. Both cases brought before the committee since
the student body dropped its regulations have come more or less from chance encounters of the security officers with violations,
rather than from any conscious effort to ferret out offenders. Likewise, there have been acknowledged instances in which security officers
looked the other way in the face of obvious violations of both possessing and being under the influence of alcohol.

The sum of the circumstances is an aura of uncertainty as to what will be the faculty’s attitude toward future
violations of their rule dealing with alcohol. The time is ripe for a realistic approach to the campus liquor situation.
Two years ago students and faculty sat down and worked out a solution satisfactory to most parties, under the circumstances
then in existence. Changes since then make another joint approach necessary.

It’s unfair to have a rule capriciously enforced against a few unfortunate students. Yet, this will be the case unless
some change is made. A change in the direction of more stringent enforcement will result in such extreme measures as
room searches and additional security officers, resulting in an atmosphere of distrust that will discourage not only present personnel but
prospective students and faculty as well.

The other alternative is a reasonable rule that can be enforced by the faculty and that will be respected by
the student body. One basic step in this direction would be a rewording of the rule against being under the
influence in order to take behavior into account. The present rule makes no distinction between the student pleasantly high and
the student making himself obnoxious or destructive. The criterion of gentlemanly conduct is much more apt than is a general
ban on being under the influence. Similarly, the prospect of a wet campus, which a number of faculty members find
so objectionable, has no relationship to a student’s being under the influence.

You're Gonna Pay For It

It never fails. Every time you think you’ve solved a problem, a new complication pops up, and you might as
well be back where you started off. After a three-month controversy last year over whether students should be required to
pay to attend certain basketball games played in the Charlotte Coliseum, the Athletic Department conceded that students would this year
be admitted ‘free’ — that is, they would pay nothing over what comes out of the $100 student activities fee
every student is required to pay. The upshot was that while last year students got 10 “free” games and had
to pay half-price for two, they'll get 12 games free this year. So far, so good.

But the catch is that eight of this year’s “home” games are in Charlotte. That’s bad enough, but we can
live with it. After all, the basketball program does have to show a profit to be successful. But to make
up for the loss in revenue from the two new free games, the Athletic Program is making students pay full
prices for date tickets at Coliseum games, something not done in recent years. “We have no obligations to dates,” Athletic
Director Tom Scott told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. He's right, in the sense that there’s no directive saying dates get
in for half price—it’s always just been a policy of the school to show students this courtesy.

Dating at Coliseum games is obviously much easier than it is at Johnston Gymnasium. Yet the very year that only
four games are played in Davidson (games at which dates can be admitted for the usual half price), students will
pay full price for every date. Consequently, though the Athletic Department assures the student body that it’s getting good deals,
any student doing a nominal amount of dating will end up paying more than he would last year for tickets.
But then, it’s all for a good cause.

Let The Council Try

In October THE DAVIDSONIAN pointed out in an editorial what we considered to be a number of valid points in
favor of the Sunday night faculty open house program, a program which until this year has been an integral part
of the Davidson tradition. In connection with the general re-evaluation of the college’s religious life, the program was tried, with
considerable success, for the month of October, and then replaced by a plan in which professors, rather than opening their
homes to all students, would specifically invite students for some form of hospitality.

Since that time there has been a substantial amount of support, both within the faculty and student body, for the
renewal of some sort of program similar to the Sunday night open house. The faculty's interim Religious Committee is committed
to a policy of experimentation until the end of January and considers that the open house plan has had its
chance. When no other action was forthcoming, the Student Council took the initiative and began making plans on its own
to reinstate the Sunday night open house. The plan would be entirely voluntary, and faculty members would not only be
under no obligation to participate, but they would be free to participate only when it suited them.

In the process of following through on the program, a routine check with the Office of the Dean of Students
brought the response that such a program could not be undertaken until after the January conclusion of experimentation with other
forms of faculty-student informal contacts, that it would interfere with the trial programs. Such an attitude seems incongruous on two
accounts. In the first place, there's no reason why the Religious Committee should be concerned with the council’s plan. Since
the entire program is being conducted on a voluntary and fairly informal basis, there’s no reason for any official bodies
to become involved. The program is merely one of coordinating and publicizing what professors will be opening their homes, all
for the convenience of those interested.

In the second place, undertaking the plan would in no way sabotage the experimental programs now in progress. There’s no
reason the two plans can't coexist peacefully. The council's program merely broadens the opportunities that exist for faculty-student contact. For
the committee to withdraw its objections would ease the situation considerably, giving the council’s plan an opportunity to function in
an atmosphere of harmony.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Social Fraternities ‘An Awful Sickness’

Dear Editor:

The recent anti-gnomian controversy that is engaging the ablest minds at Davidson is also causing me considerable concern. It brought
to mind a number of reflections I have had since leaving DC the whole of six months ago and entering
the “cold, cruel world.”

Fraternities are strikingly like the Ku Klux Klan. I mean the real similarity is astonishing, even with fraternities at Davidson.
Members band together as brothers espousing glorious aims and ideals, wear sacred robes and call each other Grand Dragon, or
Holy Brother or what have you. All too often both types of organizations desecrate Christian symbols such as the cross.
Members gloat (too often seriously) over their shared superiority which places them on a level higher than “inferior” people—it hardly
matters whether they call them “Communist” or “nigger” or “gnome” or “independent.” The dehumanizing effect is the same.

And why? Because of an emotional need for security and worth by feeling superior. Whence this need? It goes back
to grammar school for most Davidson boys. Back then and all the way through the first 12 grades we were
all superior. If we couldn't outrun and outjump our classmates (and many of us could), if we weren’t richer (and
many of us were), we were always intellectually and academically superior beings. Then came the day we got to Davidson,
and it quickly became apparent that we were not at that moment superior to our classmates anymore.

Problem: To continue feeling superior. Solution: Join a fraternity. “Our fraternity is superior in every really important way,” each frat
man sings. And invariably, amazingly, we rushees BELIEVED. Man, we wanted to believe. ‘Cause we wanted awfully badly to feel
superior. And so we joined and, sho’nuff, we felt superior.

What is the price we pay for this stultification of maturation, this stagnation of development? Plenty. First of all, obviously,
we continued to believe in the myth of our own superiority. It was a myth because human worth is not
measured in terms of GPR’s or athletic letters or number of madras garments or club membership. From this, we dehumanized
others. Our superiority was (is) parasitic. We treated the Communists, gnomes, etc., as things, not as people. And all too
often the dehumanization of others became automatic. Consequently, we not only failed to mature adequately, but we also stepped on
the faces of others, made them think they really were (are) inferior or made them hateful and resentful of us.

It has taken all these six months and will take much longer for me fully to realize that people who
wear white socks and greasy hair or who stink or have black faces or are a bit ‘odd’ or eccentric
are HUMANS, beings of infinite worth, and not things which I may manipulate for the sake ofHere is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

my own feelings Whitehead's New Work ‘Commendably Southern’ A Review By CHARLES VICK Those several Davidson residents with some abiding
interest in the art of the poet shall have an excellent opportunity Monday for dialogue. James Whitehead is probably not
a major poet to be, but is at this moment and he is published, that dream of our lunatic fringe.
Presently teaching creative writing and modern poetry at the University of Arkansas, born in St. Louis and raised in Mississippi,
his first volume of poems, Domains, is commendably Southern. In “One for the Sea” he at once makes the experience
common and agrees that you Dear Editor: Obviously some of the campus critics view athletic tutoring with raised eyebrows and
open mouths. Davidson's goal of being one of the top academic communities of the nation is praiseworthy and is in
no way deterred by men on athletic scholarships. The building of well-rounded men in a college community is associated with
growth in mental and physical prowess, not either separately. That the trustees and administration realize that the fielding of subsidized
athletic teams attract men who can make major contributions to both athletics and academics in furthering their own lives and
the prestige of the college is to be commended and not degraded. Playing football and keeping academically abreast with the
rest of the student body is difficult. I played football because I loved it and made it to medical school.
I was no exception—all of our men went on either to say is too far gone for poetry when of
the modern tooling school. Perhaps to ameliorate the prostitution he decides not to be the seldom poet. He is readable
by more than a few. But, of course, that culture his heart sinks to, reads not, regardless. Anyway, the bookstore
put his books on special—$2.85 or so—and worth it. About Delta farmers and hurricanes and the State Economic Council poems
can revolve and perspect but cannot, as the few wish (arrogantly), descend too profoundly on Empson's scale. The mark of
a fine painter seems to be his accomplishment in the tradition and the same for a poet. good jobs or
to graduate schools. The ability of a school to capture men who are both students and athletes is a bona
fide plus for Davidson’s ambitions as a college. The implication was made that the subsidized athletic program draws inferior minds.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies.
Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but they will
be subject to editing unless they have been cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following
issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed. James Whitehead seems able
not only to “disremember style and the need to grind verse fine, and sink my heart to the source” ...,
but to remember quite well. And what he remembers is the “First Lecture” of a mad friend quite taken with
his therapy—“the end of style for honest men is clarity.” So he becomes capable of images of tender force and
humor and ambiguous precision. The important thing to do—if it matters—is to be there then. If he is not to
be great or even elegant in the minor key at least he can share and this his poems demonstrate. Of
course, his equation poems, the best sharings may deepen. Tutoring Compensation For Time Given College No one will dispute that
athletes will have less time to devote to both frivolity and study than non-athletes. Because the athletic department offers tutors
for students having difficulty again proves that the college is interested in having their athletes as qualified as any other
member of the student body. That a person is offered help with his studies, i.e. via a tutor, does not
make him mentally inferior. Is it possible that an athlete is superior because he has to learn the same material
in half the time? Of course not, but this is the same scatterbrained logic as assuming him inferior because he
has a tutor. What can a tutor do? Can he by some magical process create a turgor of knowledge in
his student? Obviously he can do no more than correlate the facts much like a history outline or a supplemental
text. PACK HINDSLEY Class of ‘66 Charlottesville, Va. of security. Gentlemen, social fraternities as they now exist at Davidson are
an awful sickness, a cancer, that exact a heavy price on their victims. To allow them to continue at Davidson
or any other “Christian” college requires the most astonishing hypocrisy and blindness. Drastic reform is needed perhaps not even democratic,
eating clubs would go far enough in the right direction. EARL (BUCK) LAWRIMORE Class of ‘66 Charlotte, N. C. By
EDWARD DWELLE Associate Editor Fools’ Name And Fools’ Faces For Trustees Only In a recent luncheon which I attended, Dr.
J. McDowell Richards, immediate past president of the Board of Trustees and president of Columbia Theological Seminary was presented with
a resolution of appreciation by Walter L. Lingle Jr., current president of the trustees. In accepting the framed letter, Dr.
Richards jocularly commented to Mr. Lingle that he was surprised and sorry to see that THE DAVIDSONIAN had not yet
told Mr. Lingle how to perform his job as president, had not told him how to run the college. Now
I cannot speak officially for THE DAVIDSONIAN, but I can write as a member of its staff; moreover, far be
it from me to pass up an opportunity to hand out some of my infamous, free, normally unwanted advice! In
fact, I am prepared to offer this service not only to Mr. Lingle but also to the trustees as a
whole. Please accept my “free offer” and read hereunder. IN MY OPINION the trustees are, collectively, a group of dedicated
and able men. This truism is certainly nothing new; the question is how their ability and dedication can best be
used in contributing to the welfare of the college. Perhaps the most fruitful way to understand this problem is to
investigate the concept of “the informed trustee” (cf. Memo to a College Trustee by Beardsley Ruml) with particular reference to
Davidson College. The principal problem is how to inform the trustees: How to promote communication? My immediate, practical advice is
that the trustees should have more exposure to the physical reality of the campus; it is certainly not too much
to ask that a man who has agreed to serve spend at least a week to 10 days a year
on the campus. The semi-annual meetings are not enough. Among other things this length of stay would have the effect
of getting rid of the extraneous hoopla and show which is made over a trustee(s), simply because it is so
difficult to maintain such a show for five or six days. Communication should particularly be facile between the trustees and
the faculty and the trustees and the administration. Each of these groups should be in continual formal communication in order
to know what the other has done, is doing, and plans to do; the semi-annual report of the president is
not sufficient to inform the trustees. Perhaps there should be a monthly circular, prepared by each body and submitted to
the other two. The Trustee-Faculty Retreat has greatly enhanced communication, but it is certainly not sufficient. Similarly, the trustees should
disseminate more of their formal reports to the faculty; I think that no harm can be done by having the
faculty know the budgetary state of the college or the proposed plans for the future. The faculty should reciprocate by
submitting their minutes to the trustees. The current size of the Board of Trustees is, I think, prohibitive to effective
communication among themselves or between the board and the faculty and administration. The trustees themselves have tacitly admitted this by
forming an executive committee which conducts its real business. Of course, any reduction in number must be accepted by the
present trustees, and we all know how difficult it is to get any group to abolish itself or reduce its
membership. But this would not necessarily mean any reduction in authority or power. Correspondingly, I think the trustees should have
more control over the specific makeup of the trustees; they should be able to elect some members of the trustees
themselves. Naturally, the talents of the numbers of men who would no longer be on the board should not be
lost; perhaps they could be appointed to the Board of Visitors. A reduction in the size of the trustees should
mean an equitable reduction; the presbyteries and the Alumni Association would both have to give up some places. This would
particularly benefit the presbyteries since they might be able to not limit their field to their own presbytery. BUT ONCE
there are “informed trustees” what should be their specific relation to the day-to-day operations of the college? I think that
the trustees should be an informed, overseeing body. As overseers they should leave all basic policy details to the administration
and faculty, under strong leadership; such major decisions as those concerning endowment or the establishment of a co-operative woman's college
should be those of the trustees. Moreover, they should accept any policy decision of the faculty which has the overwhelming
support of that body, such as on matters like subsidized athletics. The trustees should always ask for the consultation of
the faculty and administration on such major decisions as the appointment of a Dean of Students or a Director of
Athletics—or even a President. I am familiar with the arguments concerning the lack of objectivity on the part of the
faculty and administration, but nobody knows the college as these people do. As Ruml says, “The informed trustee need not
be a nuisance.” He can be and should be a primary asset to the college. But he must be informed!
The preliminary report of the Danforth Commission on Church Colleges and Universities asserts that “the weakness of boards is frequently
traceable to a failure to inform trustees on the matters for which they are responsible.” And so, Mr. Lingle and
fellow members of the Board, I advise and beseech you to be constantly seeking to improve the quality and quantity
of the degree to which you are informed trustees. There can be no limit to this task and, correspondingly, no
limit to the contributions you can make to Davidson College.
