PAGE SIX

Vending Machines To Reopen

The Union vending machine area, which recently has been closed after 11 p.m., will be opened shortly for the normal 24 hours a day, according to Peter Nicholls, manager of the Student Store. The nightly closing of the area started about two weeks ago after the machines were subjected to acts of vandalism. The main mistreatment consisted of machines having their fronts kicked in, though a glass was broken in one.

“The area was closed to call attention to the mistreatment,” according to Nicholls, “We don’t know who did it. It will be opened very shortly, when the glass is fixed."

Nicholls lamented the treatment of the machines: “We made the place look nice, replacing all the machines recently and trying to get ones that work. But nothing is infallible. They were turned upside down or kicked. And most of the time the machines don’t work because boys have put a penny inside the machine instead of the proper change, everything afterwards being stopped.

“We do make some money, but the main purpose of the machines is to serve the students after everything else is closed.” The money which is made goes to support the general college program, according to Robert A. Currie, college business manager.

A WHITEWASHED SEPULCHER?

“The whitewash on my tomb is already two inches thick, and I don’t want it to be any thicker,” Dr. Charles Lloyd told an Open End audience Wednesday night when a student suggested mandatory Vespers attendance for professors. (Staff Photo by Thel.)

Wellesley Professor To Speak In Vespers

Dr. Frederick J. Denbeaux will be the guest speaker in Vespers. He is professor of Biblical History, Literature and Interpretation, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. His topic will be “The Death of God.”

A native of Missouri, Denbeaux is a graduate of Amherst College and Union Theological Seminary in New York. For the last 20 years, he has been on the faculty at Wellesley. He has been visiting professor at Brown University and at Trinity College. A discussion group will meet with Denbeaux after Vespers in the Student Lounge of the Church.

Alexander Gabriel, dean of the United Nations correspondents, will speak in chapel Tuesday on the relationship between the UN and a current world trouble spot, such as Viet Nam or the Dominican Republic. Gabriel has had a lengthy and varied career in journalism and foreign affairs. He is the only correspondent to cover the UN in all its aspects since its conception. In addition to his duties as dean of UN correspondents, he is chief of the Transradio News Agency at the UN.

Dr. D. W. Meinig, professor of geography at Syracuse University, will speak Thursday night on the Mormon culture in the United States. The address will be at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union, Dr. J. W. Reid, professor of geography and geology, announced this week.

Dr. C. Bright Wilson, the Theodore William Richards professor of chemistry at Harvard University, will lecture on Tuesday in the Martin Science Building. The lectures, the first one at 9:20 in the morning, and the second one at 7:30 p.m., will be of interest primarily to chemistry, physics, and mathematics students, but are open to all interested persons.

Johnson Alters NDEA; Students May Lose Aid

By BILLY FARR
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The 100 Davidson students who have National Defense Education loans may no longer be able to receive such aid, according to H. Edmunds White, director of financial aid. President Johnson has not requested Congress to include the program in the new budget appropriations.

Davis Firmly Defends UNC Trustee Action

By ALLEN WEBB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“We had to decide who is going to run the university,” replied UNC trustee Archie K. Davis in the coffee hour Tuesday. He replied to a question about the UNC trustee meeting the day before in which they had agreed almost unanimously to delegate control to UNC officials over visiting campus speakers. Davis added, “Delegated responsibility is the concept by which one runs a university.”

Chairman of the Board of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. and President of the American Bankers Association, Davis had

Venture Termed ‘Successful’

Approximately 75 people ate at the Union's special restaurant Saturday night during Midwinters, and Bill Beckham, Union manager and coordinator of the project, called it a “successful venture.”

“We consider it successful,” he said. “I was very encouraged by the attendance, and I’m certainly agreeable to doing it again.” Beckham said that the seafood, “shipped directly from Boston,” was the most popular item.On the menu, followed by the two-dollar steaks. The next opening of the restaurant, dubbed "The Hungry D," will be the March 12 concert weekend, with subsequent openings later this spring. Mike Bates won the "Name the Restaurant Contest" sponsored by the Social Council although his title was not actually selected. Bates, the only participant in the contest, submitted nearly 50 names, and Beckham promised him a steak dinner. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, later suggested "The Hungry D."

Earlier addressed chapel as a representative of the banking industry and warned of the serious threat to the nation’s dual system of state and federal banks resulting from the "dereliction of responsibility at the state and local levels." Davis assessed the situation as only one facet of a greater tendency toward centralization; a trend for which "we have only ourselves to blame." Although proving with figures the tremendous growth since 1900 in the population of North Carolina, agricultural production, electrical power, and aggregate personal income, Davis explained that the figures are still not high enough and that the problems for the state are still numerous. He pointed out the "crying need in agriculture for supplementary income" and the failure of many counties to support public education adequately. "We have only begun to scratch the surface," said Davis and pointed out that the growing tendency toward centralization is aggravating these problems. The federal government is impatient with these failures at the local and state levels and is assuming responsibilities that the states have neglected. To check this tendency, advised Davis, we must think in terms of state development of natural resources with a sense of responsibility.

FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1966

The NDEA loan program, which was begun in 1958, has been a most important part of the financial aid program at Davidson. Over $200,000 has been loaned through the school since the initiation of the program, White said. The plan could become self-sustaining in a few years, for money is now being repaid into the fund with the former borrowers showing "a fantastically good repayment record," White continued. As it now stands, however, the college will not have the funds available to effect this, since Johnson has not requested an extension of the program. In its place, the President has proposed a guaranteed loan system, in which the money for loans would be provided by private banks and insurance companies and guaranteed by the Federal and state governments. North Carolina has instituted such a state loan program. "I do not think this will serve the same purposes in the same way," White said. Under the proposed program, there would be no assurance that the most needy students would receive aid. Since more students would be technically eligible, there might also be an insufficient amount of loan money available from the private companies involved. Furthermore, the new plan would not be as useful to the student in making his decision where to attend college. As it now stands, loan money through NDEA can be made available to the student almost concurrently with the acceptance. Under the new program, a greater time lapse would be necessary, perhaps forcing a student to make a decision with incomplete knowledge of his potential funds.

Enjoy the excitement of wearing the newest in sportcoats — Adsl Beach* Resortweave® in bold patterns and colors. You'll find our collection replete with the newest fashion ideas in Dacron® polyester and worsted fabrics — the kind normally found only in far higher-priced jackets. As a result, you get more pleasure from Resortweave because Palm Beach puts more fashion and value into them!

Our 54th Continuous Year

Mooresville

To The 1966 Southern Conference Champions We Extend Our Best Wishes In The NCAA Playoffs

MOORESVILLE FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN.
THE COLLEGE RESTAURANT
HATTIE'S
BASS CLEANERS
THE STUDENT STORE
JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
THE HUB
WESTERN AUTO
M & M SODA SHOP
McHISSICK’S SHOE SHOP
RUSH WILSON, LTD.
JACKSON CLEANERS
W. S. HENDERSON JEWELERS
COFFEE CUP RESTAURANT
PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST CO.
BRIDGEPORT FABRICS, INC.
GURLEY'S ESSO
WITHERS ELECTRIC CO.
DAVIDSON ICE AND FUEL CO.
SMITH'S PHILLIPS 66 SERVICE
CASHION'S FOOD MART
DAVIDSON PRINTING CO.

Cornelius

SMITH'S FLORAL SHOP
HARRIS-TEETER SUPER MARKET
TASTEE FREEZ
REEVES BROTHERS, INC.

Mooresville

TASTEE FREEZ
THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT
BURLINGTON INDUSTRIES
HOLSHOUSER’S INC.
CITIZEN'S SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN.
BELKS
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM, INC.
ROWAN DAIRY, INC.
JOHN MACK & SON

Charlotte

HONEY'S RESTAURANT
ATHENS’ RESTAURANT
DINO’S RESTAURANT AND PIZZERIA
RECORD CITY---ON THE SQUARE
CAROLINA THEATER --- THE SOUND OF MUSIC
LA ROMA GONDOLA
OPEN KITCHEN
SWAIN'S
MAISON MICHEL