ELECTION---1966 GOP Victories Reflect Moderation

The results of last week's Congressional and gubernatorial elections demonstrate several truisms about the current American political scene. The American people’s preference for candidates who project images of pragmatic sincerity, their unwillingness to deviate from the narrow path of moderation, and the extent to which the American political structure is screwed up all become evident when one takes a look at the election outcome.

The Republican party apparently learned well the lesson of 1964. For the most part, the winners of 1966 rejected the Goldwater ideology, turning instead to images of moderation and pragmatism. The names of Romney, Rockefeller (both of them), Percy, Brooke, Case, Agnew, Bartlett, and Baker can be cited in support of this contention. Even in California, Ronald “Pretty Boy” Reagan put forth an apparently credible image of increased moderation, although he still must be considered conservative.

CALIFORNIA

Even so, California, as usual, presents a special case of eccentricity. Pat “Jellyfish” Brown simply lacked the image of dynamism which is a necessity in the tinsel atmosphere of West Coast politics. Despite his not inconsiderable achievements as governor, Brown succumbed to the pitches of the Borax salesman. A rumored write-in campaign for the old ranger failed to materialize.

A more typical race was in New Mexico. There, the switch from Democratic to Republican control of the gubernatorial mansion actually meant the victory of a liberal, who was nominated against an organization candidate. The Democrat was conservative.

Locus

The main locus of the white backlash turned out to be the old standby, viz. the heartland of Dixie. Elsewhere, its effects were negligible. Florida, Alabama, and Georgia witnessed the backlash, with the Democratic parties in Georgia and Alabama returning to their classical programs of hating Negroes. But in Arkansas, racial moderate Winthrop A. “His Brother's Keeper” Rockefeller downed redneck Jim Johnson. Even Johnson, who flunked the Arkansas bar exams twice before passing and who accused Rockefeller of being a “sissy prissy,” saw fit to moderate his image after winning the Democratic primary: he actually consented to shaking hands with Negroes during the campaign.

In the North, Republican house candidates who ran on anti-civil rights platforms in the Chicago area were defeated. A Negro was elected to the United States Senate from Massachusetts, despite (or because of) the fact that he has a white wife and that the Massachusetts electorate is only three percent Negro. George “No-Mind” Mahoney, who won a plurality in the Democratic gubernatorial primary in Maryland by running on a closed housing platform, did well with the Negroes but lost to Spiro T. Agnew, a Republican moderate.

VIET NAM

The role of the Viet Nam war is evidence for all three of my points. That the American public is concerned about the war is obvious: although it may take the form of worry about inflation or of personal hostility to Lyndon Johnson, opposition to the war as it is being presently pursued is widespread. Yet, although the Congressional Quarterly reports a loss of 33 non-dissenters (as opposed to “hawks” or “doves”) in the House and two in the Senate, the style of this opposition tended to emphasize only slight, piecemeal quibbles rather than the radical new approach to foreign policy so sorely needed. This to me indicates the desire of the American people for a non-ideological, pragmatic approach to the problem. This is fine up to a point, but such an approach easily degenerates into a shortsighted, error-ridden policy that is especially disastrous in foreign affairs. Whether the pragmatic approach has degenerated to this point is of course being debated, but unfortunately not by the politicians.

The only real “hawk” in the campaign, retired General Harry Thyng (yes, that’s right, Virginia: it's pronounced “hairy thing”) was soundly trounced by incumbent Senator Thomas McIntyre of New Hampshire. On the other end of the spectrum, the only candidates to offer real alternatives to present policy, viz., the “peace” candidates, tended to do poorly, although here and there a strong race was run.

SYSTEM

Just how screwed up the American political system is can be shown from the fact that the House became considerably more conservative.

Drake Denies Reports Of Scheduling Change

There is no substance to rumors that the college has decided to begin in August next year and either dismiss in May or have January as a special research period, according to Dr. Joseph T. Drake, chairman of the faculty scheduling committee. He said that the matter had been talked about for the last few years, but that it had not been decided.

State YRC’s Demand Victory In Viet Nam

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Stiffer measures in the Viet Nam war were advocated by the Young Republican College Council of North Carolina at its fall convention last weekend in Durham. The convention specifically advocated blockading Haiphong, North Viet Nam’s chief port, bombing of war production throughout the North, and an end of foreign trade with countries which trade with North Viet Nam.

The Davidson delegation, which was composed of Dave Jones, the chairman, Jim MacNair, Franklin Anderson, Roger Duvall, Kent Antley, and Joe Beard, split on most issues except this one. The convention approved in its platform “withdrawal from that body (the United Nations) until such time as it does guarantee the freedom of peoples and the sovereignty of nations.” An amendment calling for removal of the United Nations from the U.S. if the U.S. withdrew was approved 26-25. The original motion passed 28-25.

In addition, the Young Republicans called for giving the veto to the North Carolina governor, refused to approve a resolution calling for damming the Perdenales River, rejected by acclamation a motion to advocate repeal of all federal labor legislation, and demanded immediate deployment of an effective anti-missile missile.

Vespers Program Features Students

Sunday Vespers will continue to emphasize the student by allowing students to take an active part in roles as organist and minister. Scott Woodmansee, college chaplain, states “I think the church today is trying to minister to the whole man.” To emphasize this relationship between everyday life and religion, each Vespers program will have a different order of presentation and quite often a different kind of worship service. The experimental Vespers service program will continue on Sunday night at 7:00 p.m.7 p.m. in Lingle Chapel for two more weeks, after which the Davidson College Religious Committee will examine the entire program.

TASTEE SUB
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE

even been voted on by the scheduling committee for the last two years. The “Blue Sky Committee” has not yet discussed this subject, according to Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston. The Blue Sky Committee is considering changes in all areas of college policy. Some of the difficulties in such a change would involve athletic events in May or January, summer jobs, and professors who are teaching in summer schools that do not end before Labor Day. According to H. Edmunds White, admissions director, there would be only a negligible effect on the admissions operations or the number of applications if the college began about the middle of August.

The Davidsonian
November 18, 1966
Page Three

more “hawkish” while at the same time the Senate became more “doveish.” Despite the fact that Republican gains were scored in both chambers, the increased Republican strength in the House is composed mainly of men who hold more conservative views than their predecessors, while their counterparts in the Senate will generally uphold the liberal orientation of that august body. All in all, though, the results of the election were no worse than to be expected. We are hurting for a House of Representatives, but the Senate will not be too bad. And the introduction of a few more clowns like Maddox and Reagan into American politics might help us relieve a few of the tensions of living in the nuclear age.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

NO NEED EXISTS
Fletcher Hartsell Proposes Troop Withdrawal

Varsity Team Debates Withdrawal Of Troops

The varsity debaters discussed the consequences of withdrawing American troops from Europe in chapel Tuesday. Fletcher Hartsell and Jim Cooley, both sophomores, debated for the affirmative, and junior Tom Rhodes and senior Greg Haynes for the negative.

Hartsell opened with two main points: no need for American troops exists in Europe and maintenance of these troops harms the United States economically. The harm, according to Hartsell, is primarily economic. The balance of payments deficit is aggravated by support of European troops, and America’s gold supply is at its lowest level in a quarter of a century. Hartsell also pointed out that the European troops could be used in other American commitments, especially in Viet Nam.

Speaking for the negative, Rhodes stated that no balance of payments problem exists, and he maintained that the affirmative had not demonstrated any real harms.

SANDWICHES
GOOD SERVICE
THE ANCHOR
Davidson’s Northern Town Limits

TRADITIONAL SHOES FOR MEN
Distinctive . . . Different . . . because Bates craftsmen have fashioned these Imperial Classics for the man to whom details of styling and construction are of more than casual importance. For instance: handsome Briarhide Calf leather uppers; soft, glove leather lining; storm welted, double leather soles and heels; PLUS the exclusive Bates-Flex construction for superior comfort and flexibility. Black and Brown
Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.
Greenville, S. C.

By JOE JONES
Staff Writer

He said that the American troops themselves are not harmful. “They aren't raping any German women or spreading any napalm,” he said facetiously. Cooley responded for the affirmative, outlining three types of European commitments: economic, military, and diplomatic. He maintained that American commitment is diplomatic rather than military and that no treaties need be broken.

The closing statement for the negative was made by Haynes, who cited State Department officials Dean Rusk, George Ball, and Dean Acheson as having opposed withdrawal from Europe because of the potential Russian threat.

On Campus
(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

“M” IS FOR THE MANY THINGS YOU’LL TEACH HER

Nobody will dispute—surely not I—that raising children is a task which requires full time and awesome skills. Nonetheless, a recent nationwide survey has revealed a startling fact: mothers who go back to work after their children are safely through the early years are notably happier, better adjusted, and more fulfilled than mothers who simply remain housewives. Moreover—and mark this well—the children of such working mothers are themselves happier, better adjusted, and more fulfilled!

All very well, you say, but what’s it got to do with you? Isn't it obvious? If you are underachieving at college, get your mother a job.

What kind of job? Well sir, your mother is probably between 35 and 50 years of age, so certain occupations must immediately be ruled out. Logging, for example. Or whaling. Or carhopping. But don’t despair. There are other kinds of jobs—not many, to be sure, but some.

However, you must not stick Mom in just any old job. You must remember that after the excitement of raising you, she would be bored to tears as a file clerk, for instance, or as a dolman. (A dolman, as we all know, is someone who brings handfuls of water to track layers. With the recent invention of the pail, dolmen are gradually falling into technological unemployment.)

But I digress. I was saying, find Mom a job worthy of her talents, something challenging that uses her vast wisdom and experience but, at the same time, is not too hard on her obsolescing tissues.

That’s what Walter Sigafoos did, and the results were brilliantly successful. Walter, a sophomore at the Upper Maryland College of Wickerwork and Belles Lettres, majoring in raffia, approached the problem scientifically. First he asked himself what his mother did best. Well sir, what she did best was to keep hollering, “Dress warm, Walter!” At first glance this seemed a skill not widely in demand, but Walter was not discouraged. He sent out hundreds of inquiries and today, I am pleased to report, his mother is happily employed as wardrobe mistress for the Montreal Canadiens.

Another fortunate venture was that of Frank C. Gransmire, a junior at the Oregon State Conservatory of Music and Optometry, majoring in sties. Frank, like Walter, did a survey in depth of his mother’s talents. Chief among them, he found, was her ability to make a roast of beef feed the whole family for three days. So, naturally, Frank got her a job at the Museum of Natural History. What has one to do with the other, you ask? Isn’t it obvious? Anyone who can stretch ribs like that belongs in paleontology.

I cannot conclude this column without saying a few words about Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. The reason I cannot is that this column is sponsored by the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and they are inclined to get peckish if I omit to mention their product. Not, mind you, that it is a chore for me to plug Personna. Or, for the matter of that, to shave with Personna. No sir: no chore. Personna takes the pain out of shaving, scraps the scrape, negates the nick, repudiates the rasp, peels the pull, boycotts the burn, blackballs the bite, ousts the ouch. Furthermore, Personna endures and abides, gives you luxury shave after luxury shave, day after day after day. And further furthermore, Personna is available both in double-edge style and Injector style. And as if all this were not bounty enough, Personna is now offering you a chance to grab a fistful of $100 bills! Stop at your Personna dealer and get an entry blank for Personna Super Stainless Steel Sweepstakes. But hurry! Time is limited.

© 1966, Max Shulman

The makers of Personna who bring you this column through the school year also bring you the ultimate in luxury shaving with Personna and Personna’s partner in shaving comfort—Burma Shave, regular or menthol.