Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief
CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

——————

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1966

Worship - At Last

Despite a somewhat slow start, caused primarily by the void in the chaplain’s position this summer, the faculty Religious Committee has made a meaningful venture into the realm of a voluntary worship service. While the crowds at the two Wednesday night services have thus far been far from overwhelming, they have been composed of people honestly searching for a meaningful worship experience, and they have not been disappointed, as was too frequently the case under the old vespers program.

The new programs have a number of aspects that merit commendation, not least of which is the length: If for no other reason, the 20-minute program gets away from the “church” idea, an attractive prospect to many students. And, for the sake of sheer convenience, the shorter program is easier to work into a packed midweek schedule.

The new services are genuine attempts at worship, something that was rarely seen at vespers, which ordinarily were theological lectures by preachers who found it difficult to get down to the level of student problems and thinking. Programs directed by community figures are much more likely to be responsive to what students are looking for. The Wednesday night programs have been couched in terms of the twentieth century, not some outdated religious gobbledygook mouthed by too many people in the church today.

On The Right Track

Discussion over subsidized athletics in the past several weeks has been fairly vigorous but somewhat misdirected. Last week's letter to the editor from Basketball Coach Charles Driesell is an excellent case in point.

Coach Driesell defended the subsidized athletic program on two grounds: first, the character and classroom performance of his basketball players, and second, the rosy financial picture the basketball program enjoys. Nobody would argue the truth of Coach Driesell's points; both are reasonably well established, though the Athletic Department has been heretofore somewhat reluctant to release any figures on its finances, and there have been no claims that the overall subsidized athletic program, including football, is self-supporting.

The athletic program should not be operated as a profit-making business enterprise, nor has it claimed to be. While financial solvency is an attractive prospect, it should not be the goal of the program. When it becomes a goal, it submerges the other, more important aspects of the athletic program.

Nor is the quality of individuals supported by athletic scholarships a valid justification for the program. Admittedly, Davidson has been fortunate to have men of high quality character and intelligence on its subsidized athletic teams. But one cannot give the subsidized athletic program credit for this—the athletes that come to Davidson are drawn as much by the reputation of the school as they are by the lure of a full athletic scholarship. Athletes interested in nothing but sports and the glory that accompanies them end up at universities that lack the reputation for intellectual excellence Davidson possesses.

Coach Driesell is, unfortunately, right when he says Davidson's athletes “work hard and deserve every penny of aid they receive”! But the question is: Does Davidson want athletes who play because they’re being paid or who play for the sheer joy of sports and a pride in Davidson College?

Let’s Hear It Now, Davidson Gentlemen:

The time to strike is now. The traditional British-type tan raincoat, long accepted as standard by discriminating college men, is in danger of losing its throne to more daring and unconventional fashions. British clothiers are now manufacturing cotton raincoats in such untraditional colors as pink, light blue, and gold. The Menswear Association of Britain has even awarded an Oscar to the company that broke the color barrier in men’s rainwear. Despite the fact that the recipient of the award insists that the newer models will only supplement the firm’s more established and conservative tan-colored line, there is danger the new style will invade the American campus.

Now is the time to rush to the nearest Davidson haberdashery and grab your protest signs before the next shipment of London Smogs comes in.

Thanks, But No Thanks

By LOUIS LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

From the mass of inconsistencies appearing on this page last week in the form of a letter to the editor from Mr. John A. Fagg, there emerges at least one unequivocal fact: Mr. Fagg wants to settle, in one 30-minute chapel program debate, the question of subsidized athletics.

To Mr. Fagg’s gracious alternatives, we choose to neither accept his “challenge” to debate nor to fade into the Twilight Zone. Instead, the editor finds it necessary to maintain his previous course of action, that of commenting on the issues through the editorial columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN as he was elected to do.

There is not, nor has there ever been, any obligation on the part of any newspaper editor to publicly debate every issue on which he chooses to comment—an editor is chosen as a writer, not an orator. The precedent of calling editors to task on the debate platform for every disagreement would be absurd—if nothing else, it would result in a monopoly of chapel programs by disgruntled newspaper readers.

No editor purports to be a qualified expert on every issue confronting the school, and the case at hand is no exception. If Mr. Fagg considers himself, speaking “on behalf of all dumb jocks,” to be an expert, certainly he can find someone of equal expertise who holds the opposing viewpoint.

An editor’s chief function is not so much that of proposing final solutions as that of stimulating debate on campus which will present both sides and eventually lead to some course of action.

In declining Mr. Fagg's kind invitation, we are by no means closing the door to debate on the issue but instead are advocating a different approach. The editorial columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN express the viewpoint of the editor, while the letters-to-the-editor column is available to any reader wishing to comment on a particular issue. No letter to the editor has ever failed, to the knowledge of the present staff, to be printed in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Mr. Fagg is welcome to take advantage of this opportunity, as is any other interested reader, within the limits of reason and good taste.

Our correspondent comments that “I have not attempted to resolve the issue. It cannot be done in a letter to the editor.” We wholeheartedly agree but would go a step farther: Neither can it be solved in a chapel debate. It may take months or years to solve an issue of such complexity and magnitude. We hope THE DAVIDSONIAN will play a significant part in the dialogue over this important question.

Council Not Responsible

The Gospel For Unsuccessful Parties

Dear Editor:

Once again it is time for the Social Council to publicly defend its program. The defense is in regard to statements from a DAVIDSONIAN article concerning a “survey” of the campus social program.

The results of the “survey” were generally favorable although I couldn't get too excited about a survey of only 30 students. Nevertheless, I would like to clear up a couple of points concerning our program.

Contrary to popular opinion, the combo party and square dance combination of two weeks ago was not a Social Council event, but instead it was sponsored by the Social Committee of the Union headed by Ben King. This committee has a budget of approximately $9000 for the year and is responsible for providing social events on “off” weekends. The Social Council spends the remainder of the $30,000 student social fee budget on three concert weekends and three major dance weekends.

King's committee can be defended for that weekend that “bombed” because (1) a similar weekend last year was very successful; and (2) they, like the Social Council, are trying to satisfy all the entertainment tastes of the campus.

Mr. Editor, if you had read the article about the weekend in question which appeared in the October 7 issue of your DAVIDSONIAN, you could have noted that the weekend was sponsored by the Union and not the Social Council. Then, perhaps, you would not have criticized the Social Council in your editorial last week for being over-ambitious. But you have been catching so much hell from everybody else lately, that I can sympathize with you for your error.

I personally feel that the entertainment contracted by the Social Council for the first semester plus the social events as planned by the Union committee provide Davidson with the highest quality social program ever and thereby the Social Council's fulfilling its obligation to the student body. Again, we ask for your support and welcome your suggestions.

VINCE FOSTER
Davidson College Social Council Chairman

(Editor's note: THE DAVIDSONIAN apologizes for its error in misappropriating responsibility for the weekend of Oct. 8 through funds for the Union functions have the same source as those of the Social Council. The fact remains that there exists the danger of an over-planned on-campus social life.)

Seamans Defends Open House System

Dear Editor:

Today I'd like to talk about institutions. Institutions can be good things if they serve man’s needs. Institutions can be bad things if man must serve their needs. Davidson College has many institutions. Some are good, but others are bad. An example of a bad institution...

WAY THE MANUFACTURERS RULE NOW

‘Consumer Sovereignty’ Theory Attacked

Several quietly checking the back of my eyelids for holes on the last row of an economics class when I was suddenly jarred into awareness by a student in the front exclaiming something about the “sovereignty of the consumer.” Apparently the class was discussing whether the...goods being currently produced, in spite of their efficient production, are those goods which ought to be produced from a welfare point of view. This student claimed that those goods which the individual consumer desires are the ones that should be produced, that this ipso facto is the proper allocation of resources, and that the consumer is sovereign in our economy. Well, of course, I was upset about being awakened, but I was also concerned about a widely held belief which this student revealed: that is, that the consumer is sovereign, and secondly that his needs and desires are answered by our production system. This doctrine of consumer sovereignty has had a long history. In the days of domestic production, every item which a person might desire was made in his own home, to his own specifications, and he initiated its production; this was 100 percent consumer sovereignty. 

Down through the centuries, we have come a long way from this position. The buyer first gave up his authority to the merchant who took orders and tried to supply as closely to the specifications desired as possible, and then to the manufacturers who now decide what is to be produced and to what specifications. Of course, the manufacturer is not absolute authority, and the consumer's loss of initiative involves no great loss of authority as long as he is able to choose from a broad range of product variations and is able to recognize good design and construction. However, as production technology has advanced, these conditions have decreased rather than increased. Economies of scale not only result in cheaper large-scale production but also raise wages and diminish the profitability of small-scale production.

At Davidson, in chapel, the speakers rarely serve the needs of man. An example of a good institution is open house on Sunday nights: Man's needs are served. (Perhaps the reason open house is being done away with is that it is a voluntary institution; an institution is good if it is compulsory, bad if voluntary.) A bad institution should be reformed, a good one retained. Open house should be retained. Objections to the current system seem to be: 1) The professor's wife doesn’t know how many people for whom to prepare refreshments, 2) Students will not attend under the present system because the abolition of vespers has made attendance inconvenient, 3) Under the present system, a professor has to meet with students who are not in his courses. My objections to the above objections are as follows: 1) Students don’t go to open house to eat goodies (except in a figurative sense), and a professor's wife is not honor-bound (or even duty-bound) to prepare a feast, 2) For those students who like to talk with professors, Sunday night open house even without vespers makes no great inconvenience, 3) Any professor worth his salt greatly appreciates any opportunity to expand his sphere of influence, to mold the thinking of our young minds. Having made my position fearlessly clear on this controversial issue, I await the inevitable refutation.

GEOFF SEAMANS
Davidson College

By Olson & Quo Vadis?
By BOB DUGGER
Guest Columnist

As a result of this, the large volume of sales necessary to support profitable production continually rises, leading to narrowing the varieties of products offered and a neglect of minority needs and tastes. The necessity of selling the produced goods is undeniable if we are to maintain the production standards now reached. This necessity has led to the extensive use of advertising and market research: market research to get some idea of what the consumer will buy, and advertising to inform him of what is for sale and convince him that he wants to buy it. Advertising is certainly desirable for disseminating information about the goods available and their prices. However, in recent years, consumer confidence in advertising has been shaken by a large number of abuses.

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

According to John Laie, a fable: CONCLUSION

WHEN WE LEFT the story of Do-well Community (DC) and Chris. Commit Mint some two weeks ago, we had reached the point where a serious crisis was imminent. The problem revolved around whether or not DC could achieve the heights it aspired to and claimed while openly parading its relationship with Chris. Chris. Commit Mint was in severe straits. Already his control had been curbed by the non-resident board which dictates policy to DC. No longer were members of the community required to attend weekly meetings out of deference to Chris. Commit Mint. The resident leaders of the community weren't expected to be so closely bound to the aims of Chris. Commit Mint as they had been in the past. In short, public evidence of the relationship between DC and Chris was negligible.

It should be pointed out that there was little opposition voiced by Chris in the course of all that happened. Evidently, he approved many of the changes which occurred. In these enlightened times, it had been established beyond the shadow of a doubt that Chris certainly didn’t like to require his followers to go to his meetings and swear to the very letter of his philosophy. There is much about Chris that is difficult to understand, and he leaves most of the problem of defining his relationships up to the communities involved.

THE DILEMMA facing Chris once again was whether or not to quietly withdraw into the background and relinquish all his ties with DC as he had done in similar cases with other institutions. If only he could hear a word of encouragement, anything which might bolster his spirits and give him some degree of hope. But all Chris heard was the general mutter of everyone about things that weren’t half his age, things which, even though important in themselves, probably weren't even as fundamental to the well-being of DC as his own dilemma. In truth, DC had to define its purpose with distinct reference to Chris or leave him out completely; it had to face the problem. The discouraging thing to Chris was the indifferent way in which he was treated. There were a few who cared, but this minority couldn’t make itself heard, and the majority of the residents of the community were not even aware that any problem existed, or if it did evince an awareness, it was not grave enough to warrant action or thought.

MORE THAN ANYTHING else, Chris wanted a definite statement of just how DC felt about his presence in the community. He had done much for Do-well, and Do-well had done well. And Do-well had much to offer and great hopes for improvement in the future. In a vague sort of way, DC knew what Chris meant to it. So DC kept ol’ Chris around because of his good name. Whenever Chris got in the way, he was pushed aside, or the terms of the agreement with him were redefined more liberally. In the end, he saw what even the people who lived and worked with DC had failed to see; he saw that he had been turned out not because of who he was and what he stood for but simply because he had been forgotten. DC came to a realization also. DC continued to do well, but it was just like all the rest. Whereas DC had once offered a unique opportunity, valued by many and considered worthwhile throughout the country, without Chris, Commit Mint DC and its members could only say: “best in the south; in search of a new identity.”

Such practices as deceptive designations of quality: the “Deluxe Champion,” “Super Deluxe Champion,” and “Super Champion,” as first, second, and third-line tire designations (Consumer Report, Oct., 1962), and fictitious price designations listing a $3-item at $60, then announcing a ‘drastic’ price cut to $50, contribute to this loss of faith. Deceptive packaging to prevent rational consumer comparisons, built-in obsolescence, and the oppressive volume and questionable quality of the ads also should be taken into consideration. The social costs of the advertising effort in terms of wasted material resources and of uneconomic outlays for credit, inventory and warehousing, insurance, product display costs, packaging materials, trucks, retail plant capacity, manpower, and so on, are incalculable. However, in all fairness, it is necessary to point out that advertising, like fire, can be used for good as well as bad: there is nothing inherently wrong with advertising. However, in the hands of manufacturers seeking to sell a large number of homogenous products in order to maximize profits, its use may not tend toward an optimum allocation of resources in an overall welfare sense and certainly does not respect consumer sovereignty. Advertising is neither good nor bad but symptomatic of a situation, a situation of an economy in which the consumer has little initiative and little authority. With advertising, the manufacturer seeks to form the market by inducing a majority of the consumers to buy a certain good. In our economy, there are very few people who have unanswered life or death economic needs: hence the greater part of the population, those with absolute economic needs already answered, are relatively indifferent to what goods are available for sale. In our economy, those who decide what will be produced are those who are closest to the centers of responsibility and power. As Walter Lippmann said about political authority, and it is undeniably true with regard to economic authority, “There is an inner circle, surrounded by concentric circles which fade out gradually into the disinterested or uninterested rank and file.” In spite of cries of lost prerogative and claims to the contrary based on irrelevant pure competition assumptions, the essential fact remains that a small number of heads presents a choice to a large group.