Page Four October 14, 1988

The Davidsonian

Miss Crozier To Play At Music Convocation

Catharine Crozier, internationally known American organist, will headline the seventh annual Sacred Music Convocation. Miss Crozier will give a recital
for which there will be no charge, at 8 p.m., Oct. 20, in the College Presbyterian Church. Miss Crozier was
a scholarship student at the Eastman School of Music where she earned the bachelor of music degree, master of music
degree, and the Artist's Diploma, the highest award for performance. In 1938 she joined the organ faculty of the Eastman
School, and in 1953 she succeeded her husband, Dr. Harold Gleason, as head of the organ department.

At 10 a.m. Oct. 29, Miss Crozier will give a lecture-demonstration on the French Organ Masses with emphasis on the
two organ masses of François Couperin. Following a noon function, the convocation will close with a “Mozart Chamber Music” concert
to be performed by Sally Wylie, soprano; Elaine Richey and Dan Vinson, violinists; Kurt Glaubitz, cellist; Robert Burch and Joseph
McGothlin, trumpeters; and Anita Baitman and Wilmer H. Welsh, organists.

Acclaimed by critics as “one of the greatest organists of our day,” Catharine Crozier has appeared at the International Organ
Festival of St. Albans Cathedral in England. At present, Miss Crozier is a member of the music faculty at Rollins
College and organist of Knowles Memorial Chapel at Winter Park, Fla. She was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of
Music from Smith College in 1965. For her Davidson program, Miss Crozier has chosen works by Nicolas de Grigny, five
chorales from the “18 Great Chorales” by J. S. Bach, Anton Heiller’s “En Festo Corporis Christi,” the “Sonate No. 1”
by Paul Hindemith, and Leo Sowerby’s “Toccata.”

Novice Debaters Face First Test

Foreign policy will be the subject of the year's first debate when the novice debaters will enter a tournament at
Wake Forest Oct. 27-29. The varsity will then go to Emory Nov. 3-5. Throughout the season, which lasts until the
end of April, the team will face competition from schools such as Princeton, Tulane, American University, and Miami. In addition,
there will be a debate with a team from Scotland, and a high school debating tournament sponsored by the college.
The official topic is, “Resolved: That the United States should substantially reduce its foreign policy commitments.” The debate team is
looking forward to a great year because of the return of experienced men and the addition of 10 freshmen, says
Ray MacMillan, the debate coach.

Dr. Anthony Abbott Discusses Role Of Courage In Student Education

“Education is not something your professors can give you. Education is a two-way process, and it can fail on either
side,” Anthony S. Abbott, assistant professor of English, told the student body in chapel Tuesday. The intellectual radical was described
as a student “with long hair, probably wearing blue jeans and sandals, who has read Nietzsche and Kierkegaard.” He realizes
that Davidson is a century behind the times, and organizations like the Davidson Filmmakers are bringing the campus closer to
realization. The club's purpose, according to sophomore leader Ashton Trice, will be to learn about “cinematic photography” by making original
films, such as those seen on campus late last spring.

Twenty-five people attended the meeting which saw Trice elected as president, Tate Sterrett, vice-president, and Heyward Whetsell, secretary-treasurer. The group
discussed individual projects and plans for a cowboy movie in November to be produced by the entire club. The club
will be run without dues. Jonas Mekas, dean of underground cinema in New York City, who appeared here last April,
touched off the student interest in filmmaking. Trice will also ensure that Gordon Ball, class of '66, is currently working
with Mekas in New York. Ball's mock epic, “The Battle Of Goat Island,” and his indescribable film, “Prunes,” drew crowds
of students who also saw Trice’s film “Cowboys and Indians,” parts I and II, and some of his experimental footage
entitled “Constantine.” Once the club gets underway, Trice plans to make a mock-epic similar to “Goat Island,” plus a film
called “Smoke.” The latter film would be a documentary on the variations in individual smoking habits. Trice says that the
club members will be encouraged to make their own films and to serve as actors in others’ films. He plans
a showing of all club productions at least twice this year and hopes to get an official charter as the
membership grows. Club plans for the year include at least one outside speaker to give a talk on first-hand filmmaking.
Trice mentioned David Lean, who directed “Dr. Zhivago” and “The Bridge on the River Kwai,” as a possibility, but expressed
more certainty in getting a representative from Mekas’ organization.

When asked if there would be any more scenes such as those in which Ball appeared au naturel, Trice answered,
“I hope not.” Part of the reason for forming the club is to have some code of ethics and to
organize ourselves for self-regulation. Several other students on campus are making films of their own, Trice commented, but “the rumor
that Charlie Vick and Ed Dwelle are filming ‘The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock’ is probably not true.”

Other events on the two-day convocation will include a lecture by Robert Shapiro, Hazzan of Temple Israel in Charlotte, on
“Religious Music of the Bible” at 11 a.m., Oct. 28; an address by Dr. Harold Gleason, organist and noted educator,
at 2 p.m., on the subject, “Organ Instruction from the 17th Century to the Present.”ask, “Do you reward bull and
punish cow, or vice versa?” Exploring further the student's role in relation to education, Abbott elaborated on three types of
students: the intellectual radical, the cool guy, and the grind. (Staff photo by Olsen)

BOTT EXPOUNDS

Banning ‘Dixie’ Sparks Protest

The Student Council passed a resolution Monday in favor of protesting the athletic committee’s “suggestion” that the playing of “Dixie”
be banned from Davidson athletic events. The resolution, passed with eight council members in favor, one opposed, and four abstentions,
stated that the council was “vehemently” opposed to the ban. The resolution came about as a result of mass student
protest to the banning of the song, which has been played by the pep band at football games and basketball
games in the past. Bayard Millner, Student Council secretary, said that the four abstentions were in reaction to the word
“vehemently,” but that they were generally in favor.

Two Nominalism Inspires Changes In Annual

“We’re nominalists and realists.” Such is the approach of Tom Teal, co-editor of the Quips and Cranks, in discussing the
type of annual to be expected this year. According to Teal, it is to be a year of radical changes.
There will be several features of past annuals which will be missed in the 1967 edition. The annual will be
“tightly organized” with a minimum amount of copy. Much of the introductory “poetry” will be deleted and there will be
no dedication. Although there will be space reserved for faculty, social life, athletes, and other aspects of the college, these
will not be set off in specific sections as they have in past years.

From Council

the spot plan, and that seven voted against. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, Library director, said that he would cooperate in the
project by providing a location for the spot plan, if it is put into effect, at the resolution by Tom
Scott. Damon, athletic director, reported late Wednesday afternoon that he had heard nothing of the Student Council resolution, and it
had not been presented to him in any form. The council also announced that there were no definitely scheduled Monday
chapels in the near future. Information concerning Monday chapels will be in the previous week's “This Week in Davidson” and
in the Thursday chapel bulletin. Bull Watson, junior class representative, reported on the proposed school-wide “spot box” and on faculty
reaction to the council’s traffic proposals. Watson said that two faculty members would cooperate with

In reference to this organization, Teal commented that upperclassmen “must be able to recognize the section from last year’s annual.”
In saying this he dismissed the rumors that there might not be a class section this year. Some of the
innovations have yet to be announced. Seniors will have informal pictures this year; informal dress will take the place of
coat and tie. Another major exclusive will be the use of Segoe typefaces with very few scripts. A new policy
in payment for space will allow small organizations to be included this year. Payments will be based on the number
of members rather than on set pricing. This year, he spends his junior year abroad.

COOL GUY

The second student, the cool guy, is well-dressed with his hair “long, but not too long.” He has attended prep
school and finds at least one of his college texts familiar. He begins to cut Saturday classes, and soon, “between
football games and dates at Queens, between trips to Hattie’s and bull sessions at the house,” a four-day week becomes
habitual. The last type, the grind, probably comes from a small high school in eastern North Carolina where he ranked
first in his class. A master of cow, he “underlines important passages in his reading with a yellow felt pen”
and carefully avoids cutting class. He even spends an occasional Saturday night studying. And when the grades come out he
barely passes. Abbott concluded that each of these types had a common fault—a lack of courage. The grind lacks the
courage to think. He is afraid to step into the world “outside of cow, an amorphous world of ideas where
you have to live with uncertainty... to know that you will never know.”

RESIST PRESSURE

The cool guy also lacks courage to think, but his greatest failure is the lack of courage “to resist social
pressure... to risk being wrong.” Abbott said that “at least 35 percent of all students will refrain from expressing an
idea.” He added,

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
MAIN ST.
Davidson, N. C.

TASTEE SUB
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE

Most students are a mixture something of your own.”

IFC To Help Publicize Homecoming Concert

as possible. The tickets will cost $2.00 for outsiders and $1.40 each for Davidson student and date. Righteous Brothers will
also play at the Charlotte Coliseum that week, but Booe said that the cheapest tickets there will be $3.00. In
other business the council raised the problem of installing more phones at the fraternity houses. Booe expressed confidence that if
enough phones were desired, the college would pay for the installation of a new cable from Davidson. Interfraternity Council President
Mike Booe told IFC members Tuesday night to promote the Homecoming Righteous Brothers Concert. “The quality of next semester’s entertainment
depends largely on our success at this concert,” he emphasized. He informed the IFC that a crowd of 2,400 was
hoped for to help finance the Homecoming performance. Booe encouraged the council to promote the concert to local high schools
and youth groups in order to sell as many tickets

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

If communications were good enough, Of course, you would still have to get exercise, But that’s your problem. We want
to make it easier for you to contact people, learn, get information, attend lectures, and hold meetings. to let you
hear lecturers in distant locations. And so you could ask them questions no matter how far away they were. Right
now, many students can dial from their dormitories to a language lab. Soon a student will be able to dial
into a computer thousands of miles away to get information for his courses.

AT&T

Moving your body around is highly inefficient. We developed Picturephone® service so you can see as well as talk when
you call. And be seen, too. If communications were perfect, you would never have to leave your room. We have
introduced Tele-Lecture service (two-way amplified phone calls) so you can hear a lecture and ask questions no matter how far
away the lecturer is. Depending on the nature of the information, you might get an answer back audibly, printed on
a teletypewriter, as a video image, or a facsimile print. Some of these services are available now. Others are being
tested. For the next week or so, better get a move on.

Service mark and Associated Companies
Bell System
American Telephone & Telegraph
