Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

Curis HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1966

One Step Backwards

Those who were able to ferret from the cliches and high-flown language the substance of Dean Frontis Johnston’s “blue sky” speech Tuesday may recognize that such thinking could set the tone for one of the most important eras in Davidson's history. His assessments of changes wrought by the 20th century and their resulting demands on education were perceptive indeed. Few would argue that Davidson can’t continue to “walk backwards into the future.” But Dean Johnston’s ideas on today’s students and their role in policy making are less than complimentary—they are an insult. Today’s college students are more serious and concerned, the dean said, but they are not as educable or docile. They lack maturity.

Does the dean equate docility with maturity? The time is admittedly gone when students obediently and unquestioningly go along with administration policies, but most would construe this as a more mature approach, rather than less. We want the aid of the student body in curriculum reform, Dr. Johnston said, but he didn’t say that the Blue Sky Committee had voted unanimously not to allow a student member on their committee. Instead, he asked for the Student Council to create a parallel committee which would consider students’ ideas on curriculum reform and meet occasionally with the faculty’s committee to pass along student ideas.

While students at other progressive schools are getting more and more voice in policy making, Davidson students are being asked to formalize a structure which would accentuate the dichotomy between student and professor rather than minimize it. The Self Study acknowledges that “student participation in policy making at Davidson is essentially indirect,” through such means as individual contact with professors rather than through any formal structure. Such a student committee has the potential to render a valuable service to the discussion on curriculum revision, but it is no substitute for having student representation on the Blue Sky Committee.

The reason advanced for refusing to allow a student voice on the committee is the issue of faculty personalities which will inevitably come up in deliberations on specific changes. The professors feel they cannot openly discuss other professors in the presence of a student. Such an explanation is a weak excuse for refusing students the right to have a direct say in matters affecting the college. In the first place, no faculty member is naive enough to think that students don’t discuss professors’ personalities or that students don’t know how professors are regarded by their colleagues.

An admission that the committee members can’t openly discuss issues in the presence of a student is an indication of faculty opinion of students’ role in policy making. The committee should have confidence in the Student Council to appoint a level-headed student representative who would refrain from broadcasting committee deliberations to the rest of the student body. In an adaptation of one of the dean’s own extended metaphors, labor (students) and management (faculty) are at odds, and each needs an organized voice to communicate with the other. Labor never got anywhere as long as it exerted an indirect influence on deliberations; likewise, students need an equal voice to make known their thinking through official channels.

Several weeks ago Dr. Anthony Abbott called for students to show a new courage in their approach to education, to think daringly. “Education is a two-way process,” he said. Faculty and student should learn from each other. Now is the time for the faculty to show its courage and learn from students.

Time For Clarification

Action by the Student Council in making selection of the Miscellany editor the function of an independently operated, self-sustaining board raises the heretofore dormant question of who shall be ultimately responsible for selecting editors of the school’s student publications.

In the past, the Publications Board has exercised the function of nominating candidates who would be elected by students, despite the fact that there has existed, in the Student Council Bylaws, a non-operating Magazine Advisory Board empowered to nominate candidates for the magazine’s editorship. And the Publications Board has no specifically enumerated powers, in its constitution, to control who shall be named as possible editors. Indeed, the board’s function has varied, but its role has always been primarily one of controlling financial aspects and only secondarily editorial management.

In assuming responsibility for establishing the procedure for selection of the Miscellany editor, the council has, in effect, asserted a control over all student publications. The implication is that the council could eventually determine who would receive an editorship, by setting out the means of selecting the editor. Such a power could eventually bring THE DAVIDSONIAN, heretofore a newspaper independent of control by any political type body, under the wings of the Student Council, making it almost completely ineffective as an independent organ.

Responsibility and accountability fall much more naturally to the Publications Board than to the council, for not only is the board composed of student journalists familiar with the demands of campus publications, but it would have far less involvement in the political views of an editor.

The Smooth Society

Congratulations to the young Messrs. Larry Brand and Michael Bandler, of Forest Hills, who have established their right, after two weeks of penance on the detention bench, to wear their hair long in high school. The blow they thereby struck for freedom—the freedom to be hirsute—will doubtless go rolling tidally through the halls of secondary education coast to coast, and we have been set to wondering what there is about long male hair that is so menacing. Is it its tendency to pick up lint, soot and bacilli? No, for the hair of long-haired boys we see looks, if anything, offensively washed, and, anyway, the locks of ladies, however long, appear as far beyond sanitary considerations as the wavelets of the high, inviolate seas. Is it, then, the femaleness of long hair on males that offends us, turns us queasy? Yet what is so intrinsically masculine about a close-cropped head? Do we think Charlemagne fey? Prince Valiant? Albert Einstein? John the Baptist? Ah, John the Baptist. Perhaps what we mind is being surrounded by cigarette-smoking young persons uncomfortably reminiscent of Sunday-School oleographs. We have come a long way, nigh unto two thousand years, to get away from those people, and it is a shock to realize that the neighbor’s son who used to mow our lawn has returned from Berkeley looking precisely like Jesus—that Jesus, in a sense, was in him all along, waiting to be let out.

It may be that smooth chins, cheeks and skulls represent to us something preciously modern—smoothness as an ideal, man as interchangeable, frictionless—and that all this bristling and flowing going on around us threatens to gum up the machine. Well, is the machine really that fragile? And was it designed to be eternal? We were furry primates before we were robots.

The New Yorker

Be Prepared

There’s an old custom that when one makes an appointment, he makes it a point to keep it. “Drop backstage for an interview,” said the telegram last week, inviting THE DAVIDSONIAN to chat with the Righteous Brothers troupe after their performance here Friday night. But lo and behold, when the newspaper’s reporter and photographer started looking for the boys after their extravaganza, they were gone. “We just didn’t feel comfortable around here,” they were heard to remark. And so they cleared out, pronto, immediately after the show. No explanations, no apologies, no nothing.

The cause of their discomfort was apparently a rousing round of hisses that met the two comedians that accompanied the entourage. Hissing is part of the game of entertainment, particularly at Davidson, and bush-league comedians should learn to live with it. But it’s doubly insulting when $7,000 is going into a two-hour concert that included obviously second-rate entertainment. At that rate, we’re entitled to our own kind of fun.

Here’s hoping the next entertainers will be forewarned of the Davidson audience, in order to avoid a replay of such childish behavior on the part of “professional entertainment.”

LBJ, VIETNAM, KING HURT SENATOR

Percy Leads

Two years ago, neither Batman, Robin, the Green Hornet, nor any other nationally recognized figure could have unseated veteran Illinois Senator Paul H. Douglas, a liberal, civil-rights-backing, Johnson-supporting Democrat. But now Douglas is being challenged by a liberal, civil-rights-backing, Republican youngster, Charles H. Percy, and Douglas is experiencing serious doubts about his re-election.

Trends on the national level have seriously injured Douglas’ chances. Midwesterners are becoming more uncertain of the Democratic administration now in office, and LBJ's popularity has dipped badly, as it has in other parts of the United States. This development will almost certainly hurt Douglas as well as any other Democrat in the off-year election.

Both the escalation of the Vietnam war and the increase of non-non-violent civil rights demonstrations have disillusioned many Illinois voters. In addition, several local incidents have added to the loss of much Douglas support. In Chicago, Mayor Richard J. Daley's Democratic machine has failed to react to the insistent demands of local Negro leaders for more equal opportunity and open occupancy action. Martin Luther King has recently arrived in

Quo Vadis?

By DAVID SCOTT Guest Columnist

In Close Illinois

of much Douglas support. In Chicago, Mayor Richard J. Daley's Democratic machine has failed to react to the insistent demands of local Negro leaders for more equal opportunity and open occupancy action. Martin Luther King has recently arrived in

SOMETIMES I STILL FEEL LIKE LAYING ON THE

Book Fails To Answer Normal Moral Questions

Situation Ethics: The New Morality, by Joseph Fletcher. The Westminster Press, 1966. 176 pages. $1.95.

A Review By SAMUEL MALONEY Associate Professor of Bible

Not since Bishop Robinson's exciting promise of freedom from traditional legalism in Honest to God has a clearer, more thoroughgoing presentation of the new morality emerged than in Situation Ethics. Many writers, some unknowingly, have foreshadowed the new morality—Luther, Brunner, Bonhoeffer and H. R. Niebuhr. Robinson asserts, “I believe it (the new morality) is the only ethic for ‘man come of age.’ To resist it in the name of religious sanctions will not stopHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

it: it will only ensure that the form it takes will be anti-Christian.” Situation ethics approaches moral dilemmas by neither law nor lawlessness; it is a way of love. According to Fletcher, “The situationist enters into every decision-making situation fully armed with the ethical maxims of his community and its heritage, and he treats them with respect as illuminators of his problems. Just the same he is prepared in any situation to compromise them or set them aside in the situation if love seems better served by doing so.” The magic formula is situation plus love equals right action.

Criticizing a popularly written book which presents a simple, appealing solution to muddled ethical problems is emotionally difficult. If only situation ethics could answer man’s moral problems. Unfortunately, much of this bold, breezy book leaves the reader dissatisfied. In the first place, the terms are not defined. An extremely careful designation of what constitutes a situation is essential if the situation is the determinative factor. The case-type illustrations Fletcher uses are dramatic rather than daily. They are seldom-faced decisions like abortion, filicide, sex in the service of one’s country, sacrificial adultery, auto-euthanasia, decision to drop an atom bomb.

Should these exceptional situations be the starting point for ethical inquiry? Are two alcohol-stimulated young people in a situation where traditional ethical standards and family mores can be reasonably abandoned? Fletcher's situations are individualistic and interpersonal. He disregards the significant social morality embodied in such problems as the Viet Nam War, racial tensions, and minimum wage laws. Nor is what Fletcher means by love sufficiently clear. He obviously has in mind New Testament agape, but his extravagant meanings encompass too wide a field to provide practical help in practical situations. He even hedges on his formula by defining agape as “goodwill at work in partnership with reason.” While the introduction of reason into the formula removes the shock effect of his presentation of love as the sole norm, many situations are simply not conducive to “love-using-its-head” decisions.

There are, furthermore, far from sufficient guidelines for a man’s knowing when his actions are right. When Fletcher holds that whatever is the most loving thing in the situation is the right and good thing, he presumes man both knows what is the most loving thing and can do it. Here Fletcher's anthropological assumptions are questionable. When a person does the most loving thing in imitation of God, Fletcher continues, “It is not excusably evil, it is positively good.” From my own participation in mass bombings, I shrink from labeling the killing of civilian population as an unambiguous moral value. Luther permitted a man to “sin bravely.” Luther did not, however, confuse the right thing with the lesser evil as Fletcher does when he uses Luther's words inconsistently.

Situation Ethics is vulnerable in still other areas. This is clearly a theological, utilitarian, pragmatic ethic which mounts an insufficient case against deontological ethics or ontological love. Using terms and distinctions made by William Frankena, is not “rule-agapism” more relevant than “act-agapism” for the everyday situations of life? If situation ethics has virtue, it is as a conclusion to a life of ethical wrestling and reflection—not as a premise.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Student Suggests Ideas For Curriculum Revision

Dear Editor:

Significantly, our Dean of the Faculty has earnestly opened the door for considerations of drastic curriculum changes, and consequently, other structural changes which are necessarily associated with Davidson's quest to be a first-rate modern college. We must let no obstacle of traditional approaches and structures blur our thinking as we openly and realistically consider, at long last, what must be done to make our higher educational system here one of the best in the country. Certainly a few of the programs and changes to be considered, debated, and realistically planned and executed are increased independent study projects in all fields, pass-fail courses, a free cut system, a tri-mester system, abolishment of required ROTC, abolishment of four semesters of required Bible courses, abolishment of a church affiliation which may be contrary to the pursuit of educational excellence, an expansion of building projects (more dormitories and classroom buildings), an increase in our enrollment, and the gradual establishment of a coordinate girls college. We must show our willingness to experiment with new ideas and to gradually venture into the leadership of bold, progressive programs suitable to current-day thought and needs.

JOHN SARTORIUS
Davidson College

the Windy City to throw his weight behind these demands, and his presence alone seems to have instigated Negro resentment. Because Daley hasn’t made any significant moves to appease the Negro leaders, Negro disgust has been growing, and there is a possibility that the predominantly Democratic Negro bloc will splinter and hand Percy the election.

While Illinois Negro displeasure with local political side-stepping has been increasing, Illinois whites are becoming more displeased with the increased racial violence across the United States as exemplified by the riots in Watts, Chicago, and Cleveland, and the reactionary backlash vote from these whites can only help Percy. Offsetting this to some extent, perhaps, is every voter’s contentment with the country's increased prosperity and new lows in unemployment statistics. Though the economic gains cannot hope to balance the growing social resentment in Illinois, it does force the voter to consider the two candidates’ platforms as well as their individual personalities, a major factor in any campaign.

There is little difference between the two candidates in their stands on the major issues facing Americans today.

Senate Race

Both support open occupancy legislation; both favor a negotiated peace in Viet Nam and continuation of a strong American military force in the nation. Their stands on economic issues are typically slanted and equally indistinguishing. During this time (inflation-prosperity), Illinois needs (the vigor of youth—the steady hand of experience) representing the citizen in Congress.

There is a unique development to consider before predicting the outcome of the election. Due to the macabre murder of Percy's daughter, Valerie, the pollsters have predicted a sizeable “sympathy vote” for the Republican. In addition to providing another factor in the election, the tragedy has caused the candidates to assume a more somber campaign, and there has been a notable lack of political verbiage that usually accompanies the off-year contests. Percy was defeated in his only other bid for office, that of governor of Illinois, and remarked at that time that his defeat came as a result of lack of downstate support. But now Percy supporters are predicting a 500,000 vote plurality for him on Nov. 8, and it doesn’t look as if Mr. Percy will need to look for excuses this time.

The Gospel According To John

A Quick Look

THINGS LOOK ROUGH for the Democrats this off-year election despite a number of strong candidates. The Republicans have only one problem: how to generate enough votes to capitalize upon the “strengths” of some of the Democratic aspirants. We certainly aren't lacking for new faces this year, and political analysts are being given a free reign. The South is able to point to itself with dignity once again, the home of the sedate and level-headed. The nominations no doubt reflect the serious thought with which people are approaching this election. A quick look at a few of the Governors’ races indicates a number of heartening things.

In Georgia the appealing-looking Bo Callaway has it made, or he did until the Democrats nominated a more novel face, that of Lester Maddox. Maddox has that wonderful gift of instant public image, and the Atlanta newspapers have gone out of their way to give “GoBo” a hard time.

DISREGARDING OUTRIGHT AFFRONTS to the law, who wouldn’t vote for Maddox and put him in the new Governors’ Mansion? The gates to the grounds have been appropriately painted: “this is Maddox country.” His record is consistent; he rejects the law (the civil rights legislation), and he has never held office. If Maddox is elected Georgia will never again have to secede from the Union; she may be thrown out. Give us a break, Georgia voters, restore some of our confidence in you.

Alabama, fed up with the antics of Governor George Wallace to avert integration, has taken a new tack which should prove to be unique to say the least. They have decided to throw out the office of Governor and replace it with that of Governess. The most likely female winner is ironically (?) Lurleen Wallace, the Governor’s wife.

ONE THING about Alabama Democrats, they have gotten George Wallace out of state politics. (Did anyone ever hear of a wife listening to her husband once he handed over the reins?) Now they plan to run Wallace for the presidency in 1968; Democrats, prepare yourselves for the Great Society, Part II or the first chapter of “How to Make Your Wife President.”

In Arkansas Faubus has at last decided he is too old, and the Democrats have thrown over his machine, thank goodness, to nominate Jimmy Johnson, a well-known, mild-mannered, country fellow who impresses one immediately with his articulate command of a strange Ozark dialect; enter a segregationist Great Society proponent. Winthrop Rockefeller will probably have considerably more trouble here than brother Nelson will have in New York where party may prevail even though the choice for the voter is not at all clearly drawn.

California promises to be interesting, and the press has made the candidates at least as colorful as the southern contenders; when you are dealing with a man like Pat Brown this is very difficult. Perhaps Brown has more than people from the East are able to see; Bobby Kennedy went all the way to the west coast to convince the women of California what they surely must have known; Brown just cannot compare in looks and personality with Reagan. At least the Sinatras didn’t split over support for the Governor; their good sense is an example to be considered closely by all.

THUS WE SEE in this quick survey of a few of the Governors’ races just what we have known all along but have been unwilling to admit. State politics stand on their own feet; they have not been overshadowed by national politics, and the people present for nomination real choices of intelligent, promising candidates. The voters’ intelligence remains unchallenged.