YATES Poole Shares SC Honors. An amazing event transpired right under the noses of the moguls of the wide world
of the Southern Conference when a Davidson football player was chosen the co-recipient of the conference player of the year
award by the sportswriters this week. Not that Jimmy Poole, who had an all-but-unbelievable year in air combat, is not
deserving of recognition. He may be more so—that is not the point. But so little consideration has been afforded to
the elite of the Wildcats within recent memory that in a way it had seemed that the conference had been
allotting votes in direct proportion to enrollment. Poole began the August trial-by-sweat this season not even certain of the number-one
quarterback slot. Jake Jacobsen's bout with mononucleosis presented Poole an uncontested shot to try to fill the fall with the
ball, and he rose to the challenge so well that by mid-season he was breaking or threatening long-standing records at
Davidson and in the conference ledgers. Contrary to what has been written elsewhere, Poole is not Davidson's first all-conference gridder.
Pack Hinesley and Dave Sprinkle broke the barrier last year. But Poole ranks high in Davidson’s new breed of athletic
prowess. And he is the first Wildcat pig-lugger to break the bank. Poole said that he felt grateful both to
the team and to his coaches for giving him both the confidence and the support he needed along the road
to success, Southern Conference style. “Teamwork was the key all season,” said Poole, “and I was just lucky to be
receiving all the help.” Hamor agreed that Poole certainly deserved the honor and remarked that the 1,925 yards that he
racked up would never have been possible “if Jimmy hadn’t been just the right type of leader for our situation.”
With Poole leading the offensive barrage, the ‘Cats always felt that they could score again. Poole’s offensive credentials sound like
those of the protagonist in “Hero in Mudville.” He set conference records in pass completions, pass attempts, single-game pass completions,
yards passing, and yards total offense. He broke only nine Davidson records, even doubling one single-game high. Poole hit on
30 passes against East Carolina to break Earl Cole's 1963 record of 15 hookups. He also hit for 201 yards
passing, gained 288 total yards, and attempted 50 passes in that one game for school records.

Grapplers Stage Comeback To Pin Blue Devils, 21-18. Coach Charlie Parker's mat year at Davidson has been surprising. Duke's Big
Day. He won a 21-18 upset last Friday at Durham. “It was a good match,” said Parker, who was pleased
to see his Wildcats make up a 10-point deficit and surge ahead in the final three matches. Competition began with
Cole Hutson defeating his opponent, 2-0. Jim Buffington followed with a pin over Zeke Zeidner which gave the ‘Cats an
eight-point lead. Duke swept the next four matches to put them ahead. Davidson forfeited the 137-pound class. Parker said this
was a main weak spot for Davidson and will continue to hurt throughout the season. Buffington faced Duke. “Duke wrestled
well considering that this was their first match.” Forget the ‘Cats' last year. Davidson lost 42-8 to the Keydets. Hopes
are slim for this year since Parker's squad faces a team which has lost only one man from last year.
“They're a whole lot better than Duke,” said Parker, “but there's a chance we might do all right.” Again, the
gap in the 137-pound class will hurt the Davidson team. He said, Wednesday UNC will play mostly the Wildcats. “They
have the best team they've ever had. They're strong in every weight class. There's no doubt about it, we've got
our work cut out for us.”

Deacs Swamp Davidson's swimming team in a 64-30 defeat to Wake Forest in the ‘Cats’ first swimming meet of the
year Monday. The fishmen were never in contention as Wake’s superior team continued to roll up points through the entire
meet. Davidson's varsity lost 64-30 while the Duke's Candy Debaur downed Dean Cromartie, 7-0, in the 144-pound division. Then the
Blue Devils took a five-point lead when Bryan Pittman was pinned by Virgil Vanassolt. Duke's margin reached its peak when
Terry O'Rair was pinned. The hosts led 14-8 with three matches remaining. The Wildcats began to eat up the Duke
lead when Jim Wilson pinned his opponent. Sophomore Kerry Keith tied the meet by dumping Duke’s Rory Reimer. In the
final match, Lowell Bryan decided the outcome of the meet with a 10-2 decision over his opponent to give the
Wildcats a three-point margin of victory. Commenting on the results, Parker said it had been 10 or 12 years since
Davidson had beaten Duke.

Sharp Shooters Bomb Terriers. Davidson's rifle team, led by the excellent marksmanship of Frank Powell and Walter Estes, defeated Wofford’s
riflemen, 1282-1222, in a closely contested match.

IMAC Basketball As Seven Post Victories. By DAVID KING, Sports Writer. The intramural version of Davidson's winter religion, basketball, bearing
little resemblance to the varsity model, got underway Monday night as six teams took to the court. The Sigma Chi's
played the KA's in one of the openers. KA Bruce Vanderbinnet described it this way: “We stayed right with ‘em
for a while. Then the game started.” Machi Tom Clayton credited defense and re Armfield with the win. Action resumed
Thursday night as the Pikas took on the SPE's. The Pikas emerged victorious by a 58-39 score under the leadership
of Hat Dog Hinnant, who, according to the crowd, poured in 22 points. Sam Hines and Fletcher Hartsell were the
leading SPE scorers, 11 points and Pete Glidewell's eight led the Betas. Glidewell commented that the SAE shuffle offense confused
his teammates and led to the Beta downfall. Ed Litt and K. D. Weeks with 14 paved the SAE’s scoring
between grins to marks. He set season school standards in attempts, completions, passing yardage, total yardage, and TD passes. He
did all right for a fellow who had to work for everything he got. Backfield Coach Dick Tomey, who ought
to know Poole's accomplishments as well as anybody, compared him to John Huarte and Johnny Unitas in that he came
from nowhere and through sheer determination made himself great. This is what makes the Jimmy Poole story so impressive. Unlike
Garrett Ford of West Virginia with whom he tied, Poole did not have the ready-made football career ahead of him—and
for this his recent achievement is to be even more commended. “It's wonderful,” said Tomey, “that athletics allows a boy
to work as hard as Jimmy did and come that far. Just looking at where he was two years ago
and where he is now is a miraculous thing. It's a tribute to his willingness to stick to it.” And
through all this excitement Poole has maintained his humility. To be able to survive the prolonged attacks (in jest, of
course) of his fraternity brothers and still retain some semblance of humility proves something.

IMAC Begins STANDINGS
Kappa Sig 110.12
Phi Delt 328.96
Beta 402.92
Phi Gam 262.42
ATO 238.10
Strickland 23 and Glidewell 10 for the Betas, coach Geoff Birkhead complained that his team was rusty and would improve
with time. By far the most exciting game of the week was provided by the Phi Gams and KA's. The
Phi Gams emerged victorious in an overtime, thanks to two clutch baskets by Dan Sweet and a foul shot by
Barry McLean. The final score was 46-43. Fiji Doug Rhymes led all scorers with 13, followed by Sweet, and the
KA's Lindsay, Rick Harrell, and Kirk Reed with 10 each. The Wildcats began to eat up the Duke lead when
Jim Wilson pinned his opponent. Sophomore Kerry Keith tied the meet by dumping Duke’s Rory Reimer. In the final match,
Lowell Bryan decided the outcome of the meet with a 10-2 decision over his opponent to give the Wildcats a
three-point margin of victory. Commenting on the results, Parker said it had been 10 or 12 years since Davidson had
beaten Duke.Contested match, Powell and Fates have been shooting remarkably this season, averaging 341 and 342 respectively out of a
possible 4000 for eight matches. Art Abplanalp, Warren Bellows, Dan Duan, and Ed Maxwell also contributed to Davidson's second victory
of the season. This is a tough year for Stuart Set Raymond Clark's team. Most of the boys are inexperienced
in competition, but they showed marked improvement over the score of the first match. Davidson will encounter some extremely tough
competition in the coming matches. Clemson, the Citadel, and West Virginia rank as the top three varsity teams in the
South. Next week the rifle team will look for its third victory against North Carolina in the first of the
scheduled meets with the Tar Heels. Clark said his team is a bit shorthanded, but he points to heavyweight division
freshmen who succumbed 71-3. Coach Tom Stevens said, "For what we have, we did pretty well. We lack sprinters on
the team. Wake won every freestyle sprinter's event." Stevens showcased Eddie Beach and Steve Barden as outstanding swimmers for the
team. Beach had a first and two seconds, and Barden had one first for the 'Cats. Bobby Vagt, John Holm,
and first-year diver Tucker Dalton also performed well for Davidson. According to Stevens, the freshmen swimmers "did fairly well." He
continued, "They swam against a better-than-average Wake Forest freshman team. Wake was led by a boy named Lamb who was
an All-American. On the whole, I was real pleased with their performance." Mike Davie and Doug Stott had plenty to
lead the 'Kitten swimmers. Coach Stevens also pointed out Ed Bartle, John Thacker, Wendell Holmes, Jack Wellman, and diver Jimmy
Hines as freshmen swimmers with promise. The next meet is with The Citadel this Saturday in the Davidson pool. The
freshmen events start at 2 p.m. and the varsity begins at 3:30.

Leading scorers for the Sigma Chi's were Joel Williamson and Jeff Pflugner with 25 and 17 respectively. High for the
KA's was Dick Lindsay with 17. The pre-season favorite Kappa Sigs downed the Sigma Nus 49-40. Ray Garrison with eight
and Peter Boggs with 16 led the talented Sig squad. "Raff" Barnette and Toby Westmoreland led a fairly strong Nu
attack. In the final Monday night game, SAEs overcame the Betas, 52 to 41. Hank Strickland’s team dominated the Independents,
spurred by the faultless coaching of Charlie Vick. They opened a few eyes with their convincing win over the Pi
Kapps. The Independents' scoring was balanced with Bob Peel, Carl Johnson, John Oliver, and Bruce Weidner each adding 10 points
to the total. Ben Martin and Charlie Taylor with 34 and 12 points were high for the Pi Kapps.

It was 33 degrees when the Wildcat sailors took to the boats for the start of the first race of
the Fall Team Racing Championships of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association. With the winds gusting to twenty knots, steady
at 13, it felt like zero. This weather combined with heavy tide and the unfamiliarity of Charleston, S.C. harbor to
freeze away any chances Davidson had for the title. The Wildcats had easily won their preliminary match over the University
of South Carolina and thus met The Citadel, winner of its preliminary match, on The Citadel's home waters for the
finals. The first race set the pace for the best-out-of-seven series. One Davidson boat fouled out in a start dominated
by the Bulldogs, and it was only on the last leg of the race that one Davidson boat was able
to overtake one of the three Citadel boats. The Citadel coasted to an easy one-to-four wins. The next three races
went over the same. The 'Cats never were able to place in either the first or second places, without which
it is impossible to win when each team is sailing only three boats. Sailing for the 'Cats were Tom Clevley
and Bob Murphy, James Lee and Ben Albee, and Chip Robertson and Chip Bellamy. Ben Reeves skippered in the first
race but retired to allow Lee, a Charlestonian, to put his knowledge of local sailing conditions to best use.

"The boys are in real good shape and working hard," said Assistant Coach Harold Fraley, "but it will take a
real good game to beat Brevard." Coming off their opening victory over Wake Forest, the Wildkittens used a second-half surge
to romp over North Greenville Junior College Saturday, 100-73. North Greenville got off to a fast start while the 'Kittens
had trouble finding the range in the opening half. Jan Postma and Jerry Kroll pulled the frosh ahead and gave
them a seven-point halftime lead at 42-35. Kroll and Mike Maloy sparked the second-half drive that turned the close game
into a rout. By 13:30 of the second half, the 'Kittens had stretched their lead to 22 points—67-45. With ten
minutes to go, Coach Terry Holland started clearing the bench. Rick Barton broke the century mark for the 'Kittens. Davidson's
yearlings outrebounded the Greenies, 72-36, as Maloy and Doug Cook grabbed off 15 and 19 errant shots respectively. Kroll and
Maloy banged in 22 points each, while Postma contributed 21. Warren Whitener led North Greenville with 16 points. Commenting on
the game, Fraley said, "We were coming off a real hard game with Wake Forest and our shots just wouldn't
fall at first. It took a good team effort to break the game open." The Wildkittens used a devastating fast
break Tuesday to run the Furman frosh back to Paladin City. The 'Kittens simply had too much speed, shooting, and
rebounding in burying the Paladins, 110-79. "We put pressure on them with our defense from the start," said Fraley, "and
we didn't give them a chance to get their offense cranked up." The 'Kittens' pressure defense and domination of the
backboards set up several fast breaks which gave Davidson a commanding lead early in the game. The 'Kittens opened up
a 37-12 lead before the starters were lifted with eight and a half minutes left in the half. Postma paced
the early attack with 12 points. He hit six of his first seven shots from the floor. Kroll contributed four
assists during the drive. Holland began substituting but the starters were recalled near halftime. With 3:57 left in the game,
Maloy hit the 100 mark with a stuff shot. A solid team effort gave the 'Kittens the easy victory, as
all starters hit in double figures. Maloy led with 23, followed by Cook's 22 points and 14 rebounds and Postma’s
21 tallies. Tom Heffelfinger led Furman with 24 points. The Furman game marked the third straight time the 'Kittens had
scored 100-plus points in a game. "This team is the scrappiest bunch I've ever been associated with," said Fraley. "They
give a real team effort, produce well on offense, and the big boys have been controlling the boards."

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Tippy IS coming December 16
