ZIP-AND HE’S HERE

Attempts to increase student voice in curriculum studies dominated Monday morning's Student Council meeting. A plan for student critiques of their courses was the foremost item of discussion. The critiques, a plan largely supported by the faculty, will consist of student evaluation of their professors and courses through questionnaires supplied by the Student Council. Each professor will have the option of participation in this program. If a professor decides to have his classes fill out these questionnaires, the students will fill them out before the end of the semester. The questionnaires will not be signed by the students, and the professors will not read them until after first semester exams.

Another item discussed was the questionnaire passed out by the Blue Sky Committee to show student interest in subcommittees. There was a good response to the questionnaire, and those which were returned will be passed on to the Blue Sky Committee for approval.

The possibility of exchange programs with other colleges has been investigated, and Randolph-Macon Woman's College has shown a desire for an exchange program second semester. Council member Julian Prosser expressed the desire to try to secure 11 physical education class cuts per semester which would be in line with other school courses. He also talked of the possibility of a revision of the ticket policy by the Athletic Committee and was asked to do further research into the areas.

Plans Set For Winter Concerts

The Social Council has snared some top-flight performers for Midwinters and the first second-semester concert weekend. Saturday afternoon, Feb. 4, The Dukes of Dixieland will present a jazz concert. The Impressions, The Showmen, and Judy Collins will highlight Midwinters on Feb. 17-18.

The Impressions and The Showmen will open the weekend Feb. 17 from 8 p.m. until 12 in the Hall. A slight admission charge will entitle students to dance to hits of The Impressions such as “Amen,” “Keep On Pushing,” and “It's All Right,” in addition to grammar.

Hight said that the program's impact on high school students was comparable to that of an assembly program of the year, and an English teacher remarked that “teaching English was easier after the program” because of the influence of the representatives’ vocabulary.

Student Council Weighs Curriculum Critiques

The success of programs presented by 12 Davidson students to various nearby high schools may lead to expansion outside the immediate area. Tom Earnhardt, the student who originated the program, said that invitations now have been received from high schools not previously contacted. The student teams hope to carry their program to high schools as far away as Florida, second semester.

Dr. William B. Hight Jr., director of student counseling, visited Boyden High School in Salisbury for a college day after the program had been presented there. “Students and teachers,” he said, “kept mentioning something about a program the day before, but I didn’t know what they were talking about. I didn’t know they (the students) were going around making these talks.” One girl told Hight that “as the program developed, it got so quiet you could hear a pin drop.” The principal called it the “best assembly program of the year.”

Union Party Features Trained Chimp

Monkeyshines Set For Tomorrow Night

Tomorrow night’s monkey business in the College Union will be headlined by Zippy, the famous chimpanzee. In addition, the Catatinas will preside at a Combo Party in the Morrison Room. There will be a trick-shooting pool exhibition in the game room. The finals of the school ping pong championship are to be held, and Herb Jackson will be doing sketches in the lobby. The Santa Claus Salon will feature Tom Rhodes, the magician, the Tomcat Ramblers, the Davidson Madrigal group, and Terry Sonnonstine. Andy Clay promises “some of the best all-time great flicks.” Both “Rainmaker” and “Compulsion” will be shown. Both are free.

The door prizes promise to be the best ever. They include a second FM-AM transistor radio, a sweater, a shirt, a $25 gift certificate from John Mack and Son, a shirt, free haircuts, free date tickets for basketball games given by the athletic department, free gas, records, and free meals for two at the Hungry D.

There will be a “Down Home Tree Decorating Party” with all the trimmings and an old-fashioned caroling session. Zippy, who lives in a home in Long Island, began his career on the “Howdy Doody Show.” He has since appeared on the shows and as Cheeta in a “Tarzan” movie.

Welsh’s ‘Joseph’ Opens In Charlotte January

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

“Joseph,” an oratorio recently completed by Associate Professor of Music Wilmer Welsh, will premiere at Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte Jan. 21. The oratorio will be performed by the Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, a group conducted by Donald B. Plott, head of the music department at Davidson.

According to Welsh, an oratorio is “an extended musical piece that tells a dramatic story without theatrical devices.” This distinguishes it from an opera, which does employ theatrical devices. The theme is usually of a religious nature. Welsh's oratorio tells the Old Testament story of Joseph, from the time he was given the “coat of many colors” by his father through the time he received his brothers again in Egypt. The script, or libretto, was written by Welsh’s wife, who is active in theatrical groups and has written several plays. “She has completely preserved the Biblical flavor, even to the use of the archaic language of the King James version of the Bible,” said Welsh.

“The oratorio is scored for a mixed double chorus,” he continued. “There will be four soloists, of whom the tenor will sing the part of Joseph. The oratorio will be told by the narrator, who is Robert Reed, formerly of the television series ‘The Defenders’. The singers will be accompanied by the 40-piece orchestra which regularly performs with the singers. The orchestra includes several Davidson students.

Welsh conceived the idea of this oratorio some 10 years ago and has been working off and on since then to complete it. There are over 200 people involved in the final production of the oratorio. “It’s a very big undertaking,” commented Welsh. The preparation of scores, including the work of copyists, bindings, etc., will cost over $2,000.

“Critics and spectators from all over the country are coming to view the production. The Oratorio Singers have been very enthusiastic in practicing it. The ticket sales have also been a tremendous success thus far, and only 300 seats are left.

“The oratorio seems to have attracted a great deal of attention among Davidson alumni,” he added, “for I understand they are sponsoring a banquet before the performance.”

Additional Security Officers To Enforce Drinking Rule

Statements by student leaders which are referred to in President Martin’s statement supposedly were to the effect that an inadequate number of security officers were available to enforce the campus drinking rule. Chuck Matthews and Tom Earnhardt, president and second vice president of the Student Council, respectively, issued statements today saying that their remarks at a faculty meeting last week concerning campus drinking were misrepresented.Certainly appreciate the warm response it has received from Davidson people.”

Welsh came to Davidson in 1963. He received his BS from Johns Hopkins University and his BM and MM from Peabody Conservatory of Music.

Bill Sands on the Davidson student body. Sands is a reformed convict who spoke to the student body earlier this year. He received the first standing ovation from the Davidson chapel audience that has been granted in three years. Hight concluded, “They have created a new voice that is reaching today’s secondary school student. It's not an older generation speaking to a younger one. “It is at 16, 17, and 18," he concluded, “that they make fundamental decisions that affect them the rest of their lives,” and the program can “cause the students to re-evaluate their program in a better perspective.”

H. Edmunds White, director of admissions, said, “Every reaction that I have had has been completely favorable.” Both men stressed that the purpose of the program is not to sell Davidson, but to present college life from the student's point of view.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

MUSICAL STORY TOLD
Welsh Produced Oratorio With Wife's Help

...read, to the popular sounds of The Showmen. A pre-dawn breakfast is slated to round out the scheduled activity. Popular, folk-singing Judy Collins will furnish the on-campus entertainment Saturday night. According to Vince Foster, chairman of the Social Council, “Billboard ranks Miss Collins second only to Joan Baez as the most popular woman folk singer. In addition, her latest song, “Hard Lovin’ Loser,” strengthens this position.”

Officers seemed to indicate that the college was not seriously interested in enforcing drinking or ‘under the influence’ regulations on campus. Matthews held that such a conclusion was merely inferred from the testimony, and that such a statement had not, in fact, been made. Several faculty members have been questioned concerning this. “They have no recollection of such a statement having been made,” Earnhardt said.

Wailing Wall Parallels Free Speech Crusade
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

A color picture of an Army officer with a beautiful woman was the center of the Wailing Wall; underneath, the comment ran “This is the Army? Sure!” At the beginning of the year, most of the Wall's controversy centered around the Wall itself. Protest has been made against Coll Union: Display Chairman B. A. Aiken's policies concerning the size of notices to be posted, how long they would remain posted, and Aiken’s red-ink comments on the cards.

The Wailing Wall, which one student termed the Davidson equivalent of Berkeley’s Free Speech Movement, is “a good opportunity for boys to let off a little steam, to express themselves,” according to Psychology Professor J. D. Kelton. Kelton noted that the only threat against those who expressed their opinions was the necessity to defend their arguments. However, attacks are not always based on a writer's logic. One suggestion ran, “I feel that Davidson College can significantly reinforce its claim to a unique religious commitment by having the ROTC band add ‘Onward Christian Soldiers’ to its repertoire.” The only protest was that five of the 28 words were misspelled. The error was duly noted as “—5/28 . . .—Mrs. Rhodes.”

One of the most noted replies, which seems to have ended the controversy with which it dealt, “For those who think I am God, services will not be held this Sunday.” However, there have been a few serious articles. One notice thanked THE DAVIDSONIAN for its coverage of the Young Republican Club forum on civil rights, and another, more esoteric, protested something in Spanish. Another protest featured a waste can and expressed the opinion that that was where all the posters in the middle of the Union lobby belong.

...but sometimes you have to just make do. From the looks of the little boy’s eyes, the substitute seems to do the job just as well as...

CATS GET SET FOR HOLIDAY GAMES (See Page Three)

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Martin Points Out Previous Laxness

Additional campus security officers will be on duty on weekends and at other special periods to provide stricter enforcement of drinking regulations, President D. Grier Martin announced in a statement released this week. The measures result from statements made by student leaders at a faculty meeting last week “that an inadequate number of ‘watchmen’ or security officers seemed to indicate that the college was not seriously interested in enforcing drinking or ‘under the influence’ regulations on campus,” according to Martin’s statement. “It was also stated that some of the officers observed students under the influence, but took no action,” the release continued. Additional officers will be on duty on weekends and at other times “when it is considered necessary and desirable.”

The matter under discussion at the faculty meeting was the case of a freshman who had violated the faculty's drinking regulations. Matthews and Earnhardt stated at the meeting that the case of the freshman in question was a matter of arbitrary enforcement of the drinking regulations since a number of similar instances had gone unreported. “In presenting our case before the faculty we explained that students felt that they could safely return to the campus ‘under the influence’ without the threat of detection as long as they were reasonably quiet and orderly in the presence of security officers,” Matthews said. “At no time did we state that an inadequate number of security officers was interpreted by the students as meaning that the college was not serious about enforcing their drinking regulations,” he continued. “This conclusion was evidently inferred from student testimony because it was not stated by the students at the faculty meeting in question,” Matthews concluded.

“We have this definite mute sort of public relations thing, so that we can show it to parents and trustees and then forget about it,” Martin commented. “But we are serious about the enforcement of the drinking rule. We are serious about the problem as a whole. There is no permissive arrangement that the college makes.”

At the last faculty meeting, the faculty amended the penalty for violation of the drinking rule to read, “A student will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including suspension if he is found guilty of violating any of the following regulations...” It had previously stated, “A student will ordinarily be suspended.” Martin remarked that this does not imply that there will be a general lessening of penalties for drinking violations, but that the Executive Committee will have a wider range of penalties at its disposal. “I think that we were negligent in not specifying a little more,” Martin commented. He said that a point made by the student leaders speaking before the faculty was that because they thought some students had been seen by security personnel obviously under the influence of alcohol, this implied tacit approval of drinking. “That's not a valid reason for anyone who violates a regulation not being apprehended,” Martin pointed out.

“I have visited other campuses in the South and elsewhere that have no drinking regulations,” he stated. “I do not think we want to have those conditions that they have on other campuses with no regulation in this matter.”

Willie Edmunds becomes the red-nosed reindeer at the party that Sigma Phi Epsilon gave for Barium Springs Orphanage. (Photo by Olson) for Christmas.