FRIDAY, MAY 20, 1966

Basemen Post 10-24 Mark, Split With Purple Paladins

“I want to thank those who have hustled. I think we've learned a lot of things that haven't won a lot of ball games,” said Coach Tom Stevens as he bid farewell to the Wildcat baseball team. The team split with Furman Saturday in the season-ending doubleheader.

Howard Bryan, pitching in his final game for Davidson, finished in fine style by throwing a six-hitter at the Paladins and winning 8-3. The Cats managed nine hits and took advantage of 11 walks to coast to victory behind Bryan, who contributed two hits and drove in two runs. Jack Smith drove in three runs with a triple and a sacrifice. He also scored once. Tom Clayton had two hits, and Jim Hyder, Claude Owen, and Skip Waite had one hit each.

The second game came very near to being called because of rain. But the teams took the field as the clouds dispersed. This time Henry Wilmer was on the hill for the Cats. The rains made the grounds and the ball too slick for the Cats to handle, and Charlie Elliott had to relieve Wilmer in the third, but he too had little luck. The game was called in the sixth inning because of rain and a slick field. The team managed no hits, no runs, and lost, 6-0.

Despite a dismal 10-24 record, there were a few bright spots in the season: Clayton's outstanding plays at second base; Jack Smith’s heart-stopping catches in centerfield; Dave King's fine job of filling in at first base; the home runs by Waite, Hyder (2), King, and Claude Owen; Hyder's .300-plus batting average; and the great pitching of Howard Bryan. The team has hope for next year. There are some promising rising sophomores, and some lettermen who will be back with another year’s experience. There will be a new field, one of the best in this area. Stevens added, “With the new field and some new boys, maybe things will be different next year.”

ATHLETIC AWARDS 1965-66

Tommy Peters Memorial Award
Football - Armfield Blocking Trophy
Football - King Academic Award
Football - LaFar Defensive
Soccer - Most Valuable
Cross Country - Most Valuable
Basketball - Belk Award
Basketball - McLeod Defensive Award
Basketball - Free Throw Award
Basketball - Most Rebounds
Swimming - Most Valuable
Wrestling - Most Valuable
ROTC Marksman Award
Baseball - Most Valuable
Tennis - Most Valuable
Golf - Most Valuable
Track - Merchant Award
Track - Fetzer Award
Most Valuable Manager
Outstanding Freshman Athlete of the Year

Pack Hindsley
Woody Hill
Pack Hindsley
Tommy Dews
George Brown
Andy Little
Dick Snyder
Bobby Lane
Bobby Lane
Rodney Knowles
Richard Holt
Eric Nichols
Jim Kopp
Jim Hyder
Sam Hatcher
Doug McKeever
Louis Hill
Louis Hill
Jim Hyder
Kerry Keith

DORM ENHANCES FACILITIES

Courts Dim Improvement

By GEOFF BIRKHEAD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This past semester the Davidson College Athletic Department expanded its facilities to meet the need for more handball courts and better accommodations for visiting track and football teams. The new athletic dorm, which is located inside the east stands of the football stadium, is large and comfortable. Student trainer Sam Bradley remarked that “There is room for about 60 beds and the room is a great improvement.”

(Staff Photo by Olson)
NEW HANDBALL COURTS SOLVE FEW PROBLEMS
“Better To Wait In Line . . . On Old Indoor Courts.”

SAYS COSTS CUT

Currie Defends Expenses (An Analysis)

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“We did more things than we planned to, and we did them because they cost less to do now.” Thus Business Manager Robert Currie explained the recently criticized expenditures for athletic improvements in 1965-66. These expenditures have been criticized as being out of proportion to the estimates revealed in THE DAVIDSONIAN on May 19, 1965.

The first action on this program of improvements occurred in the spring of 1965. President D. G. Martin approached the Richardsons, who originally gave the money to build the football stadium, about making needed improvements on that stadium. The improvements he had in mind cost $100,000. From the Richardson Foundation, Martin got $50,000 for the improvements. But the total Richardson project cost $120,000, a figure which included the construction of an athletic dormitory, two dressing rooms, and restrooms under the east grandstand. Included in these improvements were work on west stands’ restrooms, press box, stadium appearance, and seats.

$50,000 FROM GIFTS

The basic reason this additional construction was done was because, with this addition, the cost of the projected expansion of the Johnston Gymnasium will be considerably reduced. More space for dressing rooms was needed in the gym, and this could only be accomplished through expansion of the gym. And with the addition of Charles Parker as another trainer, more training space was needed. The cheapest and best solution was to make the necessary construction under the east stands, thus converting the little-used dormitory in the gym into training space, thus making the eventual gymnasium addition require no plumbing.

ATHLETIC SURPLUS

When a surplus in the athletic budget appeared, a decision was reached to move the baseball facilities where it would not double as a parking lot, so there would be no conflict with fall practice. The new baseball field cost approximately $13,500, most of which was internally absorbed. The old field will be divided into a paved parking lot and an intramural field. While the grading equipment was here, it was decided to build the new, much-needed intramural field below the soccer field, which is now the best of the four. It cost $9,500.

$20,000 FROM DUKE

As this was proceeding, the Duke Endowment gave Davidson $20,000 for new tennis courts. These courts could have been built for that price on the soccer field, but since dirt was being moved from the new intramural field, it was in the interests of all factors to spend an additional $12,000 for saving the soccer field and build the courts in their present location north of the gym.

It has been implied that subsidized athletics was the cause of these expenditures. This is not the case, according to Mr. Currie. Subsidized athletics does not mean a stadium can be left to rot and that athletic improvements will be nil. The only expenditure which can be attributed to subsidized athletics is the $20,000 spent to replace the old press box.

GENERAL BENEFITMr. Currie noted that every other expenditure and renovation was to the benefit of the general student body. “At the time of the decisions,” Currie stated, “it seemed the best use of the dollars we had. It just fitted in, and it was cheaper too, then.”

The question of comparison of library improvements should be briefly considered. A new library will be needed in five years. The present structure was made adequate for five more years by the expenditure of $25,000 to renovate and develop the Babcock Wing. This is what the library requested. Currie emphasized, “To my knowledge, there is no request they (the library) have made that has not been filled. They have more money for books than they can use.” So the conclusion of this report is that the severe criticisms of the athletic expenditures are unjustified. They were long-range improvements. The cost reductions were considerable.

JUST BEFORE THE KILL
Defensive back Tommy Caldwell tackles teammate Bill Rikard during scrimmage. The gridmen climaxed spring drills with an intrasquad scrimmage on Richardson Field. Although heavy clouds and light rain darkened the day, the defensive unit shined for the ‘Cats. (Staff Photo by Olson.)

The transformation of unused space into a modern athletic dorm was accomplished by enclosing the space found beneath the stands. This new accomplishment is another phase of the recent improvement in the athletic facilities of Richardson Field. The other improvements are the six outdoor handball courts. Used almost exclusively by the PE classes during the spring months, the courts have drawn few other players. The student opinion is that it is better to wait in line to play on the old indoor courts than to play on the outdoor courts. Sophomore Cliff Wheeler said, “Most of the actual playing time is taken up by chasing the ball past the back line and eluding the support posts between the courts.” He also added, “The construction of some sort of backstop would help to remedy the situation.” The game itself is radically different on the outdoor courts. The ceiling, which consists of the step-like undersides of the football stands, is ruled out-of-bounds. The side walls which are used to increase the speed and angle of the ball extend only half the length of the court which itself is smaller than any of the indoor courts. In addition to these dimensional differences, the hardness of the concrete floor has forced the use of a larger, softer ball rather than the true handball whose hardness makes it unacceptable for use on the concrete floor. The concrete has also taken away the diving “showboat” plays that many feel are half the fun of the game. The courts are not without their good points. The lighting allows one to play anytime day or night and being outdoors, they provide a cool place to play during spring and fall evenings.

FINAL IMAC SOFTBALL STANDINGS
Beta 13-0
KA 11-2
ATO 8-5
Phi Gam 8-5
SAE 8-5
Sigma Chi 7-6
Pika 7-6
Kappa Sig 6-7
Phi Delt 6-7
SPE 6-7
Pi Kapps 5-8
Sigma Nu 4-9
Independents 1-12

From the comparison of years, it is not hard to see we improved in football and soccer, and declined significantly in cross country, wrestling, and track. Overall, we declined in wins, but here it's best to apply the old adage: “It’s not whether you win or lose, just so you win the conference tournament.” Amen.

Sterling Martin, who helped Heath Whittle have more track coaches (2) than points in the Southern Conference track meet (1), will spend the rest of his time next year trying to be intramural athletic director. The IMAC basketball season, which never was completed, is reason enough to establish a liaison between the IMAC and the Athletic Department. No reflection on Martin, but he’s got his work cut out for him.

Betas Win Crown in IMAC Softball
With the softball champion Betas having completed their undefeated season last week, other teams scrambled to finish in the first division. Behind the Betas and KA’s, only two games separated the next eight teams. This week, the Madis beat the Independents and the SAE's, the Phi Gams beat the Nus, the Kappa Sigs licked the Delts and the Pikas beat the SPE’s. The Pi Kapps finished strong, taking five of their last six games. At mid-season, they were in last place. Another strong finisher was the Phi Gam team which won their last four games.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Ristoranti
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Pipe Smokers
It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.
217 N. Tryon St.
375-9723

TASTEE SUB
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS FLOATS, TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE

Rush Wilson Ltd.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Suit
Short Sleeve Sport Shirt
Short Sleeve Dress Shirt
Sport Coats
Slacks
Bermuda Shorts
Weejun Lots 744—776
“because there is a difference”
Charlotte, N. C.

NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE MILWAUKEE offers FINANCIAL PLANNING for COLLEGE MEN
Your future starts the day you plan for it, and sound planning starts with a call to:
R. T. STONE
North Main Street—Davidson
892-1424