FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1966 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

AN INTERVIEW WITH DRIESELL

The burgundy and black speckled carpet was littered with letters and newspaper clippings singing praises to as yet unknown high school stars. Coach Lefty Driesell was on his hands and knees poring over the press releases, papers, and hastily penned letters that praised prospective players. Slowly he pulled himself up and prepared for the umpteenth interview since his Wildcats vanquished West Virginia to take the Southern Conference Tournament. Resigned to his fate, Driesell began answering questions he’d heard for a week with a slight edge in his voice that revealed both the pressure he felt from the coming NCAA tournament and his impatience with a necessary evil, the press.

“Why this year? Well, there were several reasons. We didn’t have the pressure of being nationally ranked. We were in better psychological condition. You know, all those things I’ve said before.”

Still on edge, Driesell refused to compare this year’s team with past years’ squads. “I don’t compare teams. I've had great teams in the past; this is a great team.

“I’ve never coached a team with dissension among the players; last year I had a team—I mean they played as a team, not individuals.

“And this year we’ve got a team with five men on the court. We aren’t a one-man team by any means.”

It is this year’s team that deserves the spotlight. It is this year’s team that has earned Driesell one of the sweetest victories he has had.

“This was a big win; maybe not the biggest, but it was good for the boys, for Davidson.

“I’m real proud of these boys. They worked hard for this victory, and they got it with six sophomores on the team. They couldn’t have done what they did without 100 percent effort.”

After his practiced tournament remarks, Driesell began a series of observations on the NCAA Eastern Regionals, the mountain of pressure he faces beginning next week. Ironically, he was more relaxed.

“Coach Mitchell and I both went up to see the Rhode Island-Connecticut game. Both have good teams. Rhode Island is a run and shoot team, explosive. Connecticut isn’t like this, but they’ve won something like 10 of the last 11 Yankee Conference crowns. I think, I don’t know for sure.”

Tonight Rhode Island travels to Connecticut's home court to play off with the UConns for the Yankee title. Connecticut got the home court by the flip of a coin after they beat Rhode Island earlier this week (on the same home court) to force a title playoff. Once past their Philadelphia opponent, the ‘Cats would travel to Raleigh where they meet the Syracuse-Pennsylvania winner.

“Pennsylvania might not play. We just called them, and they don’t know what they’re going to do yet.

“We've been scouting Syracuse some. We can’t look ahead of Monday night’s game with Rhode Island or Connecticut.”

While the future foes of Davidson's eager, young team square off tonight, Driesell will be holding an open scrimmage with his ’Cats in Johnston gymnasium.

Driesell beamed a smile when he heard his team compared with last year’s Princeton squad—both with a senior superstar and a strong crop of sophomores.

“I don’t know what they were like, I never saw Princeton play last year,” Driesell grinned. “But if we do as well as they did, it would please me.”

Less keyed up, Driesell admitted he planned to try to win one game at a time. “Come back and talk to me next week,” he beamed proudly. “We’re planning on it.”

(Photo by Thel)

LEFTY DRIESELL WAITS IN ‘WILDCAT COUNTRY’ Preparing For An Extended Season

AT CHARLESTON

Mermen Set Pine For SC Tourney

By K. D. WEEKS Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's swimmers end their season this week in the Southern Conference meet Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. VMI and William & Mary will be the main competition. “We’re hoping to finish third,” said captain Jim Stokes. “We’ve been working hard, and we’re optimistic.”

One swimmer cited, “We have beaten The Citadel, and William & Mary only beat us by two, so we are pretty optimistic.” The team holds a 6-6 record going into the meet, and Stevens is fairly pleased with it. As individual prospects, “Tom Irons should do well in the sprints and Richard Holt has a good chance in the 200 medley. Eddie Beech ought to place in the 400 medley and backstroke. We're hoping Jim Stokes takes points in the distance events.”

The swimmers work out seven days a week. “We are determined to bring back something to reward our sacrifices,” mused one eager swimmer. “Our coach, Stevens, has really succeeded, and he has been working hard to make a good program at Davidson.”

“We're ready,” said Stevens, “and it’s going to be a tough meet, but we’re aiming for second place if we swim well.”

By YATES FAISON Davidsonian Sports Writer

No one will know just who the ’Cats’ next opponent will be until Connecticut and Rhode Island tangle again tonight at Storrs, Connecticut. All the Rams had to do was beat the UConn Huskies, a team they had previously defeated. Tuesday’s game was for the Yankee Conference championship. The Wildcats, meanwhile, prepared for their Philadelphia opponent.

RHODE ISLAND

Rhode Island, who defeated Pennsylvania, is a well-balanced team. Coach Lefty Driesell described Rhode Island as “fast and a team that likes to run.” The Rams have compiled a 19-7 overall record with a 9-1 conference mark.

CONNECTICUT

Connecticut, under former Duke man, reminds one of the Blue Devils. Unlike Rhode Island...Island, the Huskies have only two men in double figures, but they possess good balance. Bialosuknia and Bill Corley, who scored 25, and Wes Holowatz. The Huskies have a 9-1 conference mark and a 16-7 season. The Wildcats have been readying themselves for their game Monday. Playmaker Phil Squier commented, "We entered the tournament with a better frame of mind than in past years. Everybody believed we'd win, not just through luck but through skill. As far as consistency, we've still got it. The boys are in shape mentally and physically for what lies ahead. Our consistency in the tournament will keep up. Why shouldn't it?"

RALEIGH? Should the 'Cats win Monday, they would face Syracuse or the Ivy League winner next. They would be cutting a day of classes, but that's what the cut system is for. Driesell especially asked that as many students as can make the effort to travel to Philadelphia. "The boys think they can win the national championship," added Driesell, "and so do I. That's what we're shooting for."

Thinclads Head To SC Meet
A bare six-man contingent left here today to represent Davidson in the annual Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet at VMI tomorrow. William and Mary rates as the meet favorite with West Virginia and the host Keydets expected to provide strong contenders. Most conference track teams have already competed in several indoor meets, with William and Mary capturing the Virginia state meet. The six men to accompany Coach Heath Whittle to Lexington are shot putters John Fagg and "Otis" Randolph; dashers Starr Evins and Steve Humphrey; Steve Gill, running the 880, and Bobby Myers, who will compete in the 60-yard run. Whittle does not foresee any record-breaking performances from his crew since this will be the first effort of the year for any Wildcat trackmen, but he considers the meet to be "good experience" for the boys.

Scrappy Wrestling
An undermanned Wildcat wrestling team began the Southern Conference tournament at William and Mary today. The finals will be held tomorrow. Wrestling for Davidson will be Joe Buffington, 123; Jim MacMillan, 130; Julian Prosser, 137; Eric Nichols, 160; Bruce Vanderbloemen, 167; Skip Waite, 177; and Lowell Bryan, unlimited. Buffington will probably get a number two seed on his 8-1 overall record and his 4-1 conference record. His only loss in a dual meet came on riding time, 3-2. Eric Nichols, 8-2 and 4-1, and Lowell Bryan, 8-1 and 4-1, are expected to be seeded high. Conn is led by 6-7 sophomore.

Cagers Look To Regionals
If the 'Cats win Monday, they would face the Syracuse-Ivy League winner next Friday night in the Eastern Regionals at Raleigh. In the other bracket, the ACC winner faces the St. Joseph-Providence winner. The two winners then compete for a spot in the finals at College Park, Maryland.

Indies Upset Gams, Betas; Fall To Delts In Overtime
By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last week’s IMAC action saw a fired-up Independent team dump the Phi Gams and Betas while losing a close bout to the Phi Delts in overtime. Richard Lyon popped in 18 points to pace the Indies over the Gams, 64-63. Marc Brown added 14 points to help clinch the victory. Doug Rhymes and Richard Graham led the Gams' scoring with 23 and 16 points respectively. Tuesday night, the Indies capped another win by sneaking by the Betas, 75-73. David Jennings hit 20 for the Indies, with Brown and Lyon again hitting in double figures. High-scorer for the Betas was Joe Rice with 18. Tucker Dalton connected for 12, with Mac Otts assisting with 10. The Independents’ loss this week came at the hands of the Phi Delts, who edged their opponents, 64-63, in overtime. Buzzy Parker and Ronnie Hunt teamed up for the Delts to rack up 16 and 14 points, respectively. Brown hit 15 for the losers.

The ATO's increased their winning streak by smashing the SAEs 71-38 and Sigma Nu’s 82-27. Rufus Adair led the Taus over the E's with a 20-point effort. Pat Hubbard and Geoff Birkhead both hit for 10 for the Taus. Neil McBryde led the Nu scorers with 12 points. Tony Clayton scored the game high with 22, with Woody Faulk adding 12 points to the Machi slate. IMAC president Tommy Hunter commented that the latest standings are not available at this time, since several games have been postponed.

(Photo by Olson)
NU'S WOODALL SHOOTS OVER CHI'S LANG
But Machis Take The Game

Grapplers Flex Biceps For Tourney Foes
By JIM MARROW
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Monday, the team closed the dual meet season in a 30-3 loss to The Citadel. Buffington picked up the Wildcats’ only points. Kerry Keith, Dean Cromartie, and Colin Hudson, all freshmen, wrestled exhibitions. Keith and Hudson won. Hudson, who has to eat hard to make 120 pounds, pinned the 123-pounder from The Citadel. Three matches later, he whipped the Cadets’ 145-pounder. Gene Shepherd, manager of the team, said, "The Citadel match hurt, but it shows we're going to have some good ones next year."

"OUR YOUNG GENERATION"
Friday, March 18
8:15 P.M. - OVENS AUDITORIUM
Tickets on sale at: Coliseum Box Office, National Hat Shop
Admissions $2.00, $2.50, $3.00

DINING - International
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead