FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966 PAGE FIVE By BILL BRIGGS Sports Editor TOURNAMENT TICKETS

That annual Davidson debacle, the Southern Conference Tournament, begins at the end of this month and with its advent comes the usual gripes about tickets. Without a doubt, Davidson students get lousy seats, and these bad seats are naturally enough subject to some severe blasts by the most caustic-tongued student fans. But caustic-tongued fans are wrong this time. Dr. Tom Scott, leading target for many CTF’s (caustic-tongued fans), summed up the situation neatly yesterday, “We haven't got any better selection than anybody else and they haven't got any better selection than we do.”

Every school in the Southern Conference has some of every type of seat. Every school in the Southern Conference has the same number of circle and courtside seats—in other words, the same number of good seats. Davidson, in fact, has far more seats than any other school in the Conference. West Virginia is second, with about half the seats we have. But the gripes of the CTF’s aren't concerned with this. For of these seats, a group of wealthy philanthropists, Guarantors, who give $1,000 a year or more to Davidson, get first pick. After the Guarantors take their pick, no more circle or courtside parquet seats are left. After these men, the Underwriters, a group of wealthy philanthropists who give from $500-$1,000 to Davidson, get second pick. When the Underwriters finish, the Century Club members who only give $100-$500 a year, take the rest of the mezzanine seats we get as well as all the edge circle and parquet seats not taken. Then after the players’ parents, recruits, and other VIP’s get their seats, the students get what’s left. This year, like last year, what's left is a square in the balcony so high up oxygen masks and binoculars are a must, and the old student section, the end tag which means you see each team shoot for a half.

“Our $10 seats in the balcony are as good as any $10 seats,” Scott observed, and he is right. As for our end parquet seats, they aren’t so good, but the way in which our seats are arrived at, the people who get to take the best seats in the Davidson sections, is right and is the fairest for the most people. It’s unfortunate that we must be stuck in the corners and around the edges of all Davidson’s good seats, but money has always talked and always will. Unfortunately, history professor Norman Johnson was right as he remarked, upon seeing where the students and faculty would sit, “When you play big-time basketball you can’t even pretend that it’s the students’ team. It just isn’t.”

FOGLEMAN AWAY ON BUSINESS

Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman is in Palm Beach, Fla., attending the annual meeting of the United States Lawn Tennis Association. As a member of four national committees, Coach Fogleman is participating actively in the following sessions: The Sanction and Scheduling session, which deals with the USLTA Junior Tennis Circuit program. Junior Development, which deals with all phases of junior tennis. Davis Cup program. Tennis manufacturers, which meets to establish standards for equipment for ranking players and policies. The meeting began Tuesday and will end tomorrow.

The ‘Cats’ to West Virginia Wednesday blew the conference wide open. The ‘Cats’ five must win the remaining three games to top the loss race. The Keydets of VMI tomorrow will be out for revenge for their 67-44 loss to the ‘Cats earlier. Forward Charlie Schmaus, a 6’4” senior from Ford City, Pa., paced the losers with 24 rebounds and his only other Keydet to hit in double figures was sophomore guard John Kemper, who chalked up a big 16 points. Snyder sparked the victors, racking up 31 points and hauling down 10 rebounds. Ronnie and Rod Knowles also hit in double figures with 15 and 13 points respectively. The ‘Cats faced VMI without sophomore star Bob Lane. Third highest scorer, Lane was sidelined with a knee injury.

LANE DRIVES AROUND WAKE FOREST'S CRINKLEY

‘Cats First Loss, 82-80, In Nightmare Week

A DISASTROUS WEEK

Wake, W. Va. Clobber ’Cats

A disastrous week of basketball saw the ’Cats drop two games that were “musts” for national recognition. Although they trampled Furman in a pre-exam contest, Wake Forest and West Virginia delivered painful blows to Davidson basketball. The verdict was an 82-80 defeat on Jim Boshart’s. Falling behind by 12 points in the early going, the ‘Cats got fired up and evened the score before West Virginia gained a 41-36 halftime lead. With a great burst as the second half opened, the Wildcats built a three-point lead before the Mountaineers could muster a foul. The margin remained close before Dick Snyder was fouled with :47 left. One to put the ‘Cats ahead, but Stone missed a second pop. Dick Snyder led the scoring for the ‘Cats with 24 points, while Ron Williams had 24 for the Mountaineers.

Stokes Shines For Mermen

By JIM MARROW Davidsonian Sports Writer

For the past two seasons, Jim Stokes had been named the most valuable member of the Davidson swimming team. If Coach Tom Stevens’ predictions come true, he will be given that honor again this year. The only thing that seems to be holding Stokes back now is that he is too well-rounded. This year, as Stevens said, “Jim has had his mind on other things like law school, and the Rhodes scholarship which he was nominated for. He missed a lot of practice because of illness, also.” But Stokes is beginning to concentrate on his swimming now. “This past week has been the best I've ever had for workouts,” he said. In one practice session alone, he covered over 1,000 yards. Davidson's tankmen, idled for more than a week by exams, hope to swim into shape before meets next week with Roanoke College and Appalachian. Although Coach Tom Stevens has been unable to learn much about Roanoke's swimmers, he indicated that the meet would be closely contested. It is to be held on campus next Tuesday.team in Chapel Hill on Wednesday, where they will probably win with little difficulty. “They have a real strong swimming program, and I believe we'll take care of them.”

IMAC Action Continues

The regular schedule of IMAC basketball and handball games resumed this week after a recess. The Sigma Chis yesterday trounced the Pikas by around 40 points, while the Phi Delts defeated the Pi Kappa 49 to 40. Cam Harkness and Joel Williamson led the team, while Tommy Hunter, president of the IMAC, will submit the results of a freshman poll to the committee on Monday. The poll is expected to sample freshman opinion on the proposed change.

The rule now states that freshmen will compete on dorm teams for the entire first year. The proposed alteration was initiated by a strong feeling among some fraternities that freshmen participation on club teams would help acclimate them to their respective fraternities.

Kittens ’Cats Hope For Comeback Against VMI, Richmond

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Lefty’s Cats must hit the comeback trail when they host VMI tomorrow and Richmond on Tuesday if they expect to clinch the Southern Conference title. They will try to avenge that 98-89 humiliation at the hands of Davidson last month. The Spiders will be guided by captain Johnny Moats, a 6-1 guard from Richmond, Va. As a sophomore, Moats averaged 14 points a game. Junior forward Dick Balderson, who fouled out trying to guard Snyder, will also be a key player.

While the Spiders fumbled over Snyder, Knowles and Lane scored 20 and 25 points respectively. Nine of Lane's points were from the free-throw line.

Wildkittens Defeat Wake Forest; Duke, UNC Next

By DOUG CRISP
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's Wildkittens defeated the Freshman team of Wake Forest, 92-81, Tuesday in Winston-Salem. Dave Moser played an excellent game and was high scorer with 26 points. Wayne Huckel also played well, tallying 21 points. Mike Spann scored 19 points and did a fine job on the boards. Rocky Crosswhite and Mike Dickens played well off the boards, and Mike O’Neill played a fine overall game.

Coach Terry Holland reported, “I thought we played a great first half considering the lay-off, maybe we saved a little for the two big ones coming up.”

Tomorrow night the Wildkittens take on the Duke freshmen in Johnson Gym. Duke defeated Davidson in their first meeting, 107-83, at Durham. They are sparked by High School All-American Steve Vandenberg. Dave Golden and Gene Bromstead are the guards for the Blue Devils. Larry Dempsey, from Greensboro, who plays forward, is the one who really beat us last time,” said Holland.

Next Tuesday Davidson plays host to UNC, which has one of the top Freshmen teams in the country. Rusty Clark, who is 7 feet tall, is the top Tar Baby. Bill Buntin, 6'7", is a good outside shot and has good speed for his size. Joe Brown, 6'5", is a strong and tough shooter from the outside. Dick Gruber, who is really quick, is probably one of the best guards that the ‘Kittens have played against all season. He is a very good shot and excellent driver. Carolina is undefeated so far this year.

OVENS AUDITORIUM ATTRACTIONS, INC. IN CONCERT — IN PERSON

Making Their First Charlotte Appearance
THE LETTERMEN
TICKETS: 3.00, 2.50, 2.00
TICKETS NOW ON SALE
Good seats available at all price ranges. The auditorium box office opens at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday evening.
Davidson College Student Union, Coliseum Box Office, National Hat Shop, and Hi Fi Camera Center.

Stokes’ best event is the two hundred-yard butterfly which he swam last year in 2:11.2, good for a second place in the conference meet. Stevens thinks that time could come down to a 2:10 with work, but says, “He’s still got a long way to go.” Stokes also swims a leg on the team’s freestyle relay team.

Stokes’ home is in Winter Park, Florida, where he started swimming in the seventh grade. He grew up in the AAU age-group swimming program and credits it for his continued interest in swimming. As for the sport, Stokes said, “I think it helps build the whole body. But it's still a hard sport to train for and a hard sport to stay interested in.” Coach Ray Martinez said that if a swimmer had to crawl out of the pool, he'd had a good workout.

Stokes had nothing but praise for his teammates. “They should get the write-up,” he commented. The team is training now for meets with East Carolina's powerhouse and VMI. The conference meet has East Carolina as the favorite once again.

Stokes’ activities away from the pool have been of note also. This year he is serving as chairman of the Honor Court. He was the recorder of it last year. Also last year he was the president of Alpha Tau Omega. This year he is in Omicron Delta Kappa and was the Brigade Commander in ROTC.

Stevens described him as a “fine competitor, an excellent leader, and just a great all-round boy. His qualities of leadership are noted in his selection as one of this year's co-captains of the team.” Next year he hopes to attend law school at either Harvard or Yale. Academically he is near the top of his class as an honors student in history.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Winter Suits
Sportcoats
Stadium Coats
Topcoats
Ski Jackets
etc.
now greatly reduced during our CLEAN-OUT SALE
John Mock & Son
Mooresville, N. C.