Page Six November 4, 1966

WOMAN POWER

Oliver Goldsmith's "She Stoops To Conquer" will be presented by the Drama Department next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8:15 p.m. Mrs. Hurd Bradford (L), Mrs. Joe Crawley, and Marvin Sparrow are among those performing in the play that will be given in Hodson Hall.

General Pleased By ROTC Tour

Maj. Gen. George T. Duncan, Deputy Commanding General of the Third U.S. Army, visited the Davidson ROTC department Tuesday afternoon. The ROTC Cadet Brigade briefed General Duncan on the operation of the Cadet Corps. According to the ROTC staff, he was extremely pleased with the briefing and the program. The Davidson cadets who participated were Cadet Lt. Col. Charles Taylor, Cadet Maj. Johnny Gresham, Cadet Capt. Rick Graham, Cadet Capt. Charles Elliot, Cadet Maj. Joe Obenshain, and Cadet Capt. Dave Purnell.

By CARTER FUSSELL
Staff Writer

The library has announced the recent acquisition of The Gentleman's Magazine, one of the most famous of all British periodicals. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, says the library has sought this publication for five or six years. Dr. Malcolm Lester, history professor on sabbatical this semester, has located a file in England. It should arrive here within the next two weeks. Davidson says that due to the value of the magazine it will be kept either in the Rare Book Room or in "The Cage" and will be available for student use by request. Lester writes, "The file is virtually complete for the 18th century with only four volumes missing. The run is somewhat less for the 1820s through the 1850s but by then the Gentleman's Magazine was less important." The magazine was first published in 1731 under the editorship of Edward Cave and until 1907 exerted an enormous influence on political, social, economic, and literary life of the 18th and 19th centuries, according to Davidson. For historians, it is perhaps most important for its records of 18th-century political and social life. For literary scholars, the magazine is valuable because it sheds light on major and minor literary figures of the period and was instrumental in forming public opinion.

Seniors (Continued from page one)

Frist spent his junior year abroad in Montpelier, France. He plays soccer for Davidson. Johnny Gresham, from Jacksonville, Fla., is majoring in political science and psychology. Gresham is a member of the Student Council, is a former vice-president of the student body, and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He is on the business staff of the Quips and Cranks, a member of the Scabbard and Blade national military society. Chris Hawk, from Charleston, S.C., is a pre-med major. He is a member of the Publications Board, YMCA Cabinet, vice-president of the College Union, and business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Hawk was president of Phi Beta Sigma, freshman honor fraternity, and Alpha Epsilon Delta, and vice-president of Pi Kappa Alpha. He serves as a freshman hall counselor and Freshman Camp publicity chairman.

POLISHING BRASS

Carlos Taylor listens to Maj. Gen. George T. Duncan

Maj. Fraley Announces Varied Drill Schedule

"We are going to try to make ROTC drill an interesting experience this year," said Maj. Harold J. Fraley, information officer for the ROTC Department. Fraley stated that according to the tentative drill schedule for the remainder of the semester there will be a field day, a current events briefing, perhaps on Vietnam, a Red Cross blood drive, and a review at the end of the semester. Field day will feature a race for assembling and disassembling the M-1 rifle, an egg-throwing contest, a tug of war, and other novelty events. Awards will be presented to the best company during the semester at the review scheduled for Jan. 10. During October, drill centered around company drill and practice for the review. After the Nov. 1 briefing and the field day, normal drill will resume for the remainder of the month and the first Tuesday of December, with the possibility of a speaker Nov. 29. After the blood drive Dec. 13, all remaining time will be devoted to practicing for the Jan. 10 review.

Davidsonian Staff

News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Photographers: DON CARROLL, BILL OLSON, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: LOU HULL, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER
Contributors this week: Bob Buchanan, John Barber, John Williams, Robert Pyeatt, Frank Anderson, Bob Dunham, Carter Fussell, Marvin Ellison, George Robinson, Danny White, David Scott, Lewis Lavine, Danny Coltrane, Bob Stubbs, John Huggins, Tom Wheatley, John Rowe, Dan Graham, Brodie Brown, Ken Cool, Al Varner, Rick Saunders, Charles Elliott, Don Sewell, Bob Albee.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

Joe Jelks, a business administration major from Greenville, S.C., is YMCA president, member of the D Club, Scabbard and Blade, and social chairman of Kappa Sigma. Jelks is an ROTC Distinguished Military Student and 1st Battalion commander. He has served as a hall counselor and YMCA Freshman Camp counselor. Louis Lesesne, history major from Kingstree, S.C., holds a Dana scholarship and the Huguenot Scholarship. Lesesne is chairman of the Publications Board, president of ODK, treasurer of Pi Kappa Alpha, member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Paul Marion, from Charlotte, is a history major. Marion is senior class president, chairman of the Student Body Regulations Court, treasurer of ODK, and alumni secretary of Kappa Sigma. He is an associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Chuck Matthews, a political science major from Winston-Salem, is president of the Student Council and a member of ODK, the Young Democrats, and Beta Theta Pi. Matthews is a group leader in the YMCA Stimulus, a tutor in the YMCA Tutorial Project, and was a Washington Semester participant at the American University during the spring semester of his junior year. Peter Parrott from Greenville, S.C., is an English major. He is president of the College Union and a member of the Social Council. Parrott during his sophomore year was elected most valuable player and this year is the captain of the tennis team. He is Southern Conference singles and doubles champion. He was a Freshman Camp counselor and is an ROTC company commander. David Purnell, a pre-med major from Charlotte, is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, Alpha Epsilon Delta, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Scabbard and Blade. He has been first in his class in scholastic average since he has been at Davidson, and he holds McConnell and Harding Scholarships. Purnell is a member of the Male Chorus, was a hall counselor last year, and is an ROTC Distinguished Military Student. Bill Rikard, history major from Canton, N.C., is freshman advisor, vice-president of ODK, a member of the Student Council, president of the D Club, and vice-president of Phi Delta Theta. Rikard plays varsity football, is an ROTC DMS, and is a member of Scabbard and Blade. Chip Robertson, a chemistry major from Richmond, Va., is...

The Newspaper Fund of the Wall Street Journal is...Again offering a number of $500 grants to juniors in its summer Intern Scholarship program. The internships are designed for those who are interested in newspaper work as a career, but whose school offers no formal journalism instruction. Those receiving the grants will work in the newsrooms of newspapers or wire services during the summer of 1967. Successful applicants will be given the names of newspapers which are cooperating in the program, and the intern may apply directly to these newspapers. Each intern will work at least 10 weeks full-time in order to qualify for the $500 grant. It is a supplement, not a substitute, to the regular salary he will receive working for a newspaper. Thirty-six newspapers and the news services cooperated in the program during 1966. Further information and applications are available from Louis Lesesne, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Homecoming (Continued from page one)

take a bow.” Saturday night. The largest attendance in 20 years was reported for the football game Saturday afternoon, and more girls came to Davidson for the weekend than ever before. In the Homecoming display contest, the Phi Gams won first place in the fraternity division while the Sig Eps took second place. In freshman hall competition, first and second floors East were awarded first place. Over 3500 attended the Righteous Brothers concert in Johnston Gym. About 1700 were present in Love Auditorium for Dionne Warwick's concert Saturday night. Smith enumerated three factors that caused the Righteous Brothers concert to be less successful than it might have been. First, their late start antagonized the audience to begin with. A performer is always at a disadvantage in this situation and has to overcome it, Smith said. Second, the sound was bad. This was no one’s fault, he explained, as Johnston Gym will produce bad sound effects. The sound system was all right for the volume of the music but distorted speaking voices. Third, the audience reaction to these first two causes unnerved the performers. Smith cited this as causing them to cut short their program, which normally lasts as long as the first act of the show. The Righteous Brothers did not pace their songs, but sang them one after another with little dialogue in between. “We should have told the students to expect the other acts to perform first and the Righteous Brothers to be the closing half of the show,” Smith said. “They came to see the Righteous Brothers and were disappointed that they did not perform first. The whole package is great, not just the Righteous Brothers. If the performers lost their hearts over this thing, Vince Foster and his whole crew worked their hearts out to make this a successful show.” The Righteous Brothers themselves were accorded a warm welcome by the audience. The manager of the show remarked that the Gaylords' humor was tongue-in-cheek. “Our hissing is also tongue-in-cheek,” Smith said, “and I tried to explain this to them. I tried to get them to understand that this is just a local situation. At the intermission, they were very discouraged, but their manager said, ‘Let's do a quick show and leave’ and so they did.”

The Homecoming Queen contestants were judged by a faculty committee composed of Dr. Thomas Clark and Dr. and Mrs. Anthony Abbott.

Davidson To Head Historical Society

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, professor of history and director of the library, was elected president of the Historical Society of North Carolina at its meeting in Chapel Hill last Friday. Davidson is the author of several volumes relating to the two Carolinas. His Piedmont Partisan was included in the “One Hundred Outstanding Books about North Carolina” (from Hakluyt’s Voyages to the present) several years ago. He is also the author of Cloud Over Catawba, Gaston Of Chester, The Generations of Davidson College, and many pamphlets. In 1951 Davidson received the Charles A. Cannon award for North Carolina history. He is a past president of the Literary and Historical Association of North Carolina, the Mecklenburg Historical Association, and the North Carolina Writers Conference. The society dates back to 1845 but lapsed during the period of the Civil War and Reconstruction and was revived by the late Dr. Archibald Henderson of Chapel Hill in 1945. Its membership is limited to 70 and only those are elected who have published noteworthy scholarly works relating to North Carolina or have been outstanding in their support of the historical projects of the Tar Heel State.

217 N. Tryon St. Pipe Smoker

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. 375-9723

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT

INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

We set out to ruin some ball bearings and failed successfully

The Bell System has many small, automatic telephone offices around the country. The equipment in them could operate unattended for ten years or so, but for a problem. The many electric motors in those offices needed lubrication at least once a year. Heat from the motors dried up the bearing oils, thus entailing costly annual maintenance. To stamp out this problem, many tests were conducted at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Lubricant engineer George H. Kitchen decided to do a basic experiment that would provide a motor with the worst possible conditions. He deliberately set out to ruin some ball bearings by smearing them with an icky guck called molybdenum disulfide (MoS2). Swock! This solid lubricant, used a certain way, actually increased the life expectancy of the ball bearings by a factor of ten! Now the motors can run for at least a decade without lubrication. We've learned from our ‘failures.’ Our aim: investigate everything. The only experiment that can really be said to ‘fail’ is the one that is never tried.