FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1966

‘HUNGRY d’ OPENS THE DAVIDSONIAN

Comedian To Headline Union Entertainment

By BEN LAHEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Union launches a new concept in student entertainment on Monday with comedian Fred Smoot and Charlotte's Bill McEntire Combo performing at the Hungry d. Union President Peter Parrott commented this week on C. Shaw Smith's dream-child, "For a long time it has been felt that Davidson and the Charlotte area have been importantly lacking in the relaxed atmosphere of a night club that offers quality entertainment at a reasonable price. This is what we hope to bring to Davidson this week (Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday) at the Hungry d."

One of the least-used, but most potentially useful, departments among those provided by the college is the Audio-Visual Service. Located in the north basement of Chambers, the department has various types of projectors, tapes, recordings, and copying machines which are available to faculty members and students. According to Mrs. Annamarie Burts, coordinator of the service, too few people at Davidson realize the importance of the effective use of these facilities. Mrs. Burts estimated that only fifty percent of the faculty use the service to any great extent. Those who do, however, are highly satisfied with the results.

At its beginning in 1962, the purpose of the service was to remove from the faculty the worry and responsibility of ordering and maintaining films, projectors, and other teaching aids. The department has been expanded to fill several other needs. The service has a large enough variety of equipment to cover almost any need in the audio-visual area. Included are five different types of projectors, ranging from ordinary 16mm to opaque and overhead types. Also, there are almost 150 films and filmstrips in its library, and over 3,000 slides. Along with this, there is equipment to make transparencies suitable for projection. These can duplicate original drawings, illustrations from books, documents, and other difficult-to-copy articles.

The audio portion of the service is equally well-equipped. There are record players, tape recorders, and one special turntable which transfers directly from disc recordings to tape. Contained in the department library are a great number of recordings on subjects varying from Supreme Court cases to readings from Shakespeare and American folk music. All are available both to students and faculty members through taped copies of the master recordings. Those tapes which are frequently used are placed in the language lab for convenience.

This equipment can be used effectively in many ways. Math professor J. T. Kimbrough has put a math course into transparencies. History courses use slides and filmstrips, while both English and foreign language departments use tape recordings. The equipment is also available to students for such uses as term papers, seminar reports, and other presentations which require an audio-visual aid. The service is under the control of the Audio-Visual Committee, whose chairman is Dr. Hopkins. Mrs. Burts hopes that an increase in the use of the department will cause an increase in the budget, to allow more improvement. At present, the department is open only from 9 to 12 daily, but hopefully, this will be expanded in the future. There may also be a provision for increased student use.

The Bill McEntire Combo is a guitar, organ, drums + jazz combo currently playing at Charlotte’s Paper Doll Lounge. They will play from 7:30 to 9:30, with Smoot, the hit of two past Spring Frolics and presently crewing “The Wackiest Ship in the Army," giving two different performances at 8:15 and 9:30. For those who wish, supper will be served from either a dinner or a sandwich menu from 7 to 8:15, with soft drinks and coffee being served all evening. The shows will be in the Morrison Room which Parrott promises "will not be recognizable." Advance reservations are recommended.

Journalist At YMCA

As part of the YMCA forums for this year, William Worthy Jr. will make two appearances on the campus Monday. He will speak to the student body at the morning assembly, followed by a coffee hour at the Union. Then he will conclude his visit with another talk at 3 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Worthy could well be classified as a "trouble shooter." In 1956 he was deported from the Union of South Africa where he had gone as a correspondent for the Baltimore Afro-American and CBS News. In 1957 he took an "unauthorized" six-week trip to China. His passport was taken away by the Department of State and never renewed. In 1960-1961 he took four fact-finding trips to Cuba, the fourth in spite of a U.S. ban on travel to that country. In 1960 on assignment for Time, Worthy was a member of the reporting and camera team that produced the documentary “Yanki No!” which was televised via the ABC network. In 1964-1965 he went on an eleven-month trip to Asia and Europe, including North Viet Nam, Indonesia, and Cambodia.

Worthy was graduated from Bates College and studied journalism at Harvard University. He has traveled around the globe three times, and he has visited forty-six countries while on assignments. Worthy, a Negro, has certainly made himself known. On May 2, 1964, the CBS-TV Network program “The Defenders” dramatized the right-to-travel and freedom-of-the-press issues raised by his individualism under the title “Yankee Come Home.”

As 1965-66 publicity chairman for the YMCA, Buck Lawrimore commented on the coming speaker, “Worthy is a free-lance newspaperman, writing primarily for the Baltimore Afro-American. He is an individualist, and a staunch advocate of the right to travel and freedom of the press. Worthy will speak about some aspect of the problems of modern man. Judging from his credentials, it appears that he will be able to give first-hand impressions of situations in prominent trouble-spots in the world today, especially Cuba and Southeast Asia.”

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Maloney
Stevens
Mebane
Van Egmond
Parker
Williams, T.A.
Rhodes
Wruckcan be made at the Union desk, but are not necessary. Reserved or at the door, tickets will be one dollar. Special permission has been given to Queens girls so that they might attend the Thursday performances. Freshmen will be allowed out of closed study, and all girls will have an 11:30 curfew. The Union is sponsoring a special bus, at no cost to the student or his date, which will leave Queens for Davidson at 6:30 and return after the last performance. Students must purchase their tickets and sign for a place on the bus by 11 a.m. Wednesday.

One difficulty in this expanded use is finding materials on the Davidson level. But increased efforts by the department and organizations such as the Piedmont University Center (of which Davidson is one of the fourteen member schools) should help to fill this need.

Betas Announce Lectures
The local chapter of Beta Theta Pi has announced plans to establish an endowed lectureship on campus, according to Beta president David Meschan. The lectureship is part of a financial drive by the Betas which also includes renovating their chapter house. Beta Arch McCallum commented that the speakers would be chosen “for the edification primarily of the fraternity. Present intentions are for these speakers to have at least one private symposium with the chapter and at least one address open to the public. “The proposed program,” he continued, “will seek to add to the liberal education through visits by noted authorities of various persuasions, in fields ranging from religion to politics to science.” The money raised by the Betas for this program, it was also announced, will be credited toward Davidson's Ford Challenge Fund Drive.

The Bitter End Singers will display their new Dixieland-Rock Folk sound on Concert Weekend, Saturday evening, May 7. Their varied show consists of songs ranging from “The Joker” to “Basin Street Blues” interspersed with comedy spots. Vince Foster, the Social Chairman, realizing that this would be a big weekend off campus, said that this show would probably be the best of our three concerts and he hoped that many students will stay on campus. The Bitter End Singers will perform in front of Chambers, if weather permits, at 10 p.m., after the major drama production. At midnight, the Union will sponsor an informal get-together with the singers and all who want to meet them after the show. Foster said that at the Block Booking Conference in Raleigh last February this group was the biggest hit of 15 others. They were booked for 25 shows immediately after the conference. In the last month, they have appeared about 29 times in North Carolina and Virginia. The Bitter End Singers have the same manager as the Serendipity Singers and the Womenfolk. All three groups had their start at his Bitter End nightclub in New York City. The Bitter End Singers have twice been asked to the White House by President Johnson. Of special appeal is their animated atmosphere, consisting of effective backgrounding, vocal gimmickry, and slick harmonics. They have recently appeared on television with Steve Lawrence in a special show and on Shindig. They have also played four repeat performances with Phyllis Diller on Show Street. Lefty Baker, Bruce Farwell, and Kenneth Hodges are the instrumentalists for the group. They combine banjo, guitar, and electric guitar in a variety of arrangements of folk songs and modern compositions. The singers come from diverse professional backgrounds. Individual members of the group have sung in musicals and have played the New York nightclub and coffee house circuit.

Phi, Eu Societies Elect New Officers
Davidson's two literary societies, the Eumanean and Philanthropic, elected officers for the coming year at recent meetings. The Eumanean Literary Society, Davidson's oldest campus organization, elected rising senior Bill Norfleet President. Roland Eidson was elected Vice-President and Toby Watt was chosen Secretary-Treasurer. Both are rising juniors. According to Norfleet, the Eumanean is currently undergoing a program of reorganization. The first meeting of the reorganized society will be held on April 25, when Charles Cornwell, instructor in English, will speak. The Philanthropic Literary Society elected Huck Berry President. Joe Obenshain was chosen Vice President. Cary Hewitt and Bill Foster were elected Secretary and Treasurer respectively. Noting that the society has become much stronger in the past three years, Berry stated that he hopes the society will continue to improve. The Philanthropic will continue its emphasis on student participation.

Pre-Med Society Initiates Members
Alpha Epsilon Delta initiated 15 new pre-med honor students at their meeting last month. Students chosen by the pre-med honorary on the basis of maintaining an overall 2.0 average were Joe Buffington, Cal Calhoun, Norman Cole, Gary DeVane, Joe Gaddy, Chris Hawk, Bill Kendrick, Chip Pendleton, and David Purnell. Also chosen were Scott Sanford, Bob Sjorgren, Henry Temple, Jim Timmons, Peter Van Dorsten, and Mo Bethea.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Cramming Clowning Crashing Pubbing

Wrangler PERMANENT PRESS
Shirts and Slacks of FORTREL® and cotton
From dawn to discotheque, they’re really with it... Permanently pressed 50% Fortrel polyester and 50% cotton make Mr. Wrangler your best buddy from early classes to just-one-more-frug at midnight... and they're guaranteed for one year’s normal wear. They stay like new forever. In a full range of colors and styles, SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE FOR FAMOUS MR. WRANGLER SHIRTS & SLACKS or write Mr. Wrangler
350 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10008

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD, Concord, N.C.