Ce ~ -aDd ‘ 6 fv, » “ *s wi _& a (Staff Photo by Purvis)

DR. AND MRS. T. O. PINKERTON
First Junior Year Advisers To Germany Reminisce
Pinkerton Describes Pioneer Year Abroad

One year and two weeks ago, Dr. and Mrs. T. O. Pinkerton were spending perhaps the most beautiful and memorable Christmas of their lives. They were in Nuremberg, German city of the Kristkindel, a traditional Christmas fair. “I can still smell the cookies and spices and steaming wurst cooking, and see the displays of toys and dolls of all kinds,” said Dr. Pinkerton, associate professor of German, in his office on the Davidson campus.

The Pinkertons were in Germany with the group of Davidson students who pioneered the Junior Year Abroad program at the University of Marburg. Pinkerton was academic advisor to the boys. “Most of my time during the school session was spent in an advisor’s capacity, as well as preparing lectures and the general administrative work which was so important in that first year.”

Pinkerton was very impressed at the performance of the students under his charge. “They were very serious in their work,” he said, “much more than they had been at Davidson.” Besides their regular classes, he continued, the boys became interested in such fields as history or art, music and foreign affairs and pursued that interest on their own time.

Pinkerton reported that they also were very active in extracurriculars. “Dave Orr and Jack Goodykoontz played basketball for the university team, Charles Turner sang with a choral group and John Good even ran an American-style campaign for office, and won.”

The Pinkertons themselves found time during the Christmas and spring vacations to do some traveling and sight-seeing of their own. Spending Christmas in Nuremberg was “unforgettable” for them, said Pinkerton. “We arrived on Christmas Eve and it had started to snow. It was beautiful, with no neon lights and small, snow-covered streets that looked like a picture out of Dickens.”

Pinkerton added that he and his wife were surprised at the number of alumni who would turn up to visit them. “Most of them were in the Army, as Don Saunders (’62) and Dudley Salley (’63). Sometimes it looked as if we were having a real reunion.”

In the spring, the Pinkertons traveled to the French and Italian Riviera, Florence, Rome, Capri and on to Vienna. Before returning to the U.S. late in the summer, they visited Berlin, Copenhagen and Paris. “It was a wonderful experience,” he concluded, “especially because of the way the boys handled themselves on their own. I think they gained a great deal from it.”

NO WRITS, REVIEWS
Junior Praises German

By HERB JACKSON
Davidson Junior Abroad

After the famous riot last year, one of the janitors said in his usual distilled manner, “I don’t know why they never listen to you up there on the hill. Without the students there wouldn’t be any school!” As basic as this question seems, it is rarely aired at Davidson but pervades the academic atmosphere here at Phillips University without requiring consideration.

This article is not designed for the sole purpose of hammering at the revered acrolith of our alma mater and is written with an awareness of problems originating from size and lack of funds. However, several of the methods practiced here may encourage thought in those students who are not totally satisfied with a high school environment and will at least promote the Junior Year Abroad Program as an opportunity to discover what the air smells like outside the walls of the six o’clock bell.

The professor, like all other wage earners in a structured society, is paid a specific sum to perform a special task, in this case to offer knowledge of his field to those who are interested enough to pay for it. Here in Marburg the professor does exactly that and does not concern himself, unless asked, with the social, religious or moral life of the student. His public working hours are posted in the catalogue, and he appears on stage without roll book, unconcerned with attendance, and proceeds to do his job.

The student is given a study book, in which up to fifty hours can be listed without paying more than the original fee. After a month of visiting as many classes as the student wishes, this book is submitted to the registrar. It is processed and returned by mail to the student, who then has only the professors of those courses he wishes to formally attend sign the book, thereby verifying his attendance for at least one session. This eliminates the problem of blindly deciding which five courses to take in a semester, or the bothersome process of dropping a course before completely discovering its potential. Within such a system, auditing a course simply means going at the appointed time. Unless desired, the interaction between student and professor is limited to the rapping of knuckles on the desk top when the class begins, and again at the end. There are no writs to waste time, and very few professors rely on questioning the audience as a device to hide a lack of preparation.

These methods, used in high school because the student was forced by the state and social pressures to attend, become obsolete in a community of individuals paying for an education. It is evident that a percentage of the buyers do not accept the benefits of what they pay for, but they are given the right to suffer for themselves when the final tests come. Not only is the use of writs and classroom questioning an insult to the diligent student who could be using the same time pursuing independent research, but it is also beneath the professor who expects the student, so grilled by a high school education as to be accepted by the university, to be capable of fulfilling his responsibility to himself.

This responsibility includes detecting the fields of interest most suited to his potential and neglecting a secondary subject for extra hours in the former. In short, the only mother the student has is left safely at home.

I remember the professors at Davidson who commented that to participate in the Junior Year Abroad Program was to be an intellectual vagabond and those professors who said we might learn something, but it would not be academic. It seems in retrospect that

PART OF INITIATION
‘Schlagen’ Is An Integral Part Of Fraternity Life In Germany

By SAM SMITH
Davidson Junior Abroad

There are about 33 fraternities or Verbindungen in Marburg to which about one quarter of the male student body belongs. The Verbindungen are usually local with no national organization. They are not as similarto one another as American fraternities are. Depending on the origin of the Verbindungen, it is classified as a Landsmannschaft, Burschenschaft, Sängerschaft, or Corps; and it acquires the name of a political area or folk group such as "Corps Hasso-Barussia" (Hessian-Prussian). One aspect of the Verbindungen which is not found in American fraternities is Schlagen, something like fencing. In this 'ritual,' two members of different Verbindungen must fight each other. Schlagen is similar to fencing, but heavier swords about a meter long are used. The opponents face each other with one arm behind the back and with padding everywhere except the head. There is also protection for the eyes, nose, and cheek. Formerly, only eye protection was allowed, and many old fraternity men have hideous scars on their faces which stand as evidence of their participation. Now the cuts are rarer and not as severe as earlier. Schlagen is compulsory in Corps, Landsmannschaften, Burschenschaften, and Turnenschaften but voluntary in any other Verbindungen. Usually, a student must schlag at least twice: once to become an active member and another to become inactive. The duel between two fellows lasts either a certain length of time or until one is cut. One doesn’t get any credit if he moves around, ducks, or utters a word during the duel.

Organizationally, the Verbindungen are similar to fraternities. There is no national organization, and because the Verbindungen are hurting for members, there is no strict rush ordeal. If a fellow wants to join a group, he is usually accepted. There are fraternity houses where brothers eat and sometimes live. A student is a pledge (Fux) for one or two semesters, a Brother (Bursch) for several years, and acquires inactive status when he begins studying for the final exam. The alumni support their group relatively well, thus allowing very inexpensive board and moderate fees. "Big brothers," "pledge masters," and other aspects are similar to US fraternities. One of the main functions of the Verbindungen is drinking. The first round of beer is at 8 p.m., everybody's happy, high, and singing at midnight, and they adjourn and somehow get home around 2 or 3 in the morning. I've heard that you really don’t see many totally drunk Germans. You've just got to wait long enough. In each fraternity house, there is a chest-high sink with grips on the wall.

The most significant aspect of the social life here is the female 35 percent of the student body. The proximity of girls where you're studying makes them not such a big deal as at Davidson, and it doesn't take seven hours of traveling and planning for a three-hour date. Also, it becomes possible to think of a girl as a human companion. At Davidson, the occasions where you meet the fairer group are manufactured. Here, on the other hand, some fellows allow their girlfriends to fix Sunday lunch in the dorm, and one can do such unadorned and unromantic things as go swimming between classes. I don’t think that one can make significant generalizations as to how the German girls outrank the American ones, or vice versa. Perhaps in being naive, however, the German girls fall far behind.

Social functions are sponsored by the fraternities, student assemblies like the World University Service, confessional groups, and dormitories. There seem to be some fraternities that emphasize social life, but several fraternity members felt that most fraternity activities in Marburg were not intended for girls.

By SAM SMITH
Davidson Junior Abroad

The first Sunday morning I was in Marburg, I attended the service at the University Church and was lucky enough to find a seat. The church is beautiful, impressive, and big; however, about six people had to stand throughout the service. The church could be enlarged with difficulty, but it seems to me that an easier solution to the problem would be to make attendance compulsory while allowing four absences. Then everyone would miss four services; therefore, the church wouldn't be overcrowded any one Sunday. The preacher was a really old professor, and I couldn't understand all he was saying. His sermon dealt with Jonah and the whale. Most of the sermons about the indigestible Jonah that I had heard in America hadn’t been very exciting, so I didn’t mind day-dreaming a little. Afterwards, however, a theology student explained that the preacher had interpreted the miracle in terms of modern theology and had "of course not" used the story in its literal meaning.

The university church holds a service for the university students one Sunday followed by a service for the town people which doesn’t involve Biblical criticism the next Sunday. The next Sunday, the Protestant group sponsored a greeting program. A professor lectured on academic freedom, hinting strongly that teachers should have a little more authority. After the speech, a girl student stood up and said his talk hadn’t been academic at all. Then other students joined the debate, arguing heatedly either for or against, but mainly against, the teacher, none of whom worried about sacrificing his grade if the teacher was offended.