VOL. LV

By BRUCE WEIHE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Due to the recent “brown-bagging” haggle in Charlotte, a stricter crackdown of liquor law enforcement could hamper off-campus after parties
during Spring Frolics. A decision handed down by Mecklenburg Recording Court Judge William T. Grist on March 22, stated that
any consumption of alcohol in a club — public or private — is illegal. This decision prohibits “brown-bagging,” or carrying
liquor, concealed in any way, into an establishment as well as ruling out any locker system in which a “member”
stores his liquor at a public place for his own consumption.

The decision, backed up by a statement issued from State Assistant Attorney General James F. Bullock, is based on several
antiquated liquor laws still on the North Carolina law books. According to these laws, the 1923 Turlington Act, revised by
the 1947 ABC Act, liquor must be bought at ABC stores, transported to one’s home with its seal intact and
consumed or served there.

In its application to Davidson, the law leaves little opportunity for students to drink legally. According to one officer of
the Mecklenburg County Police force, “home” for the college student would be his dorm room, and drinking in dormitories is
prohibited by a faculty regulation. The county police officer also stated that “any liquor stored in one’s automobile, in the
trunk or elsewhere, whether the seal is broken or intact, is also illegal according to North Carolina state law.”

There will be no strict crackdown on the liquor laws “in the very near future,” one member of the local
ABC law enforcement staff told THE DAVIDSONIAN. He went on to say that “the statement concerning a stricter enforcement was
an opinion of the attorney general. However, what has been considered legal for years will not be changed without giving
the public adequate advance notice in local news media.”

Little resistance to any drinking at fraternity parties is to be expected from owners of places where parties are usually
held. Hattie Morgan, owner of Hattie’s Cabin, stated that “It will be a private party and up to the individuals
involved. I'll take steps at my place of business to enforce the liquor laws, but not at private parties.”

One administration official at Davidson told THE DAVIDSONIAN that “as long as parties are kept under control, they probably won't
be raided. If people are discreet, nothing will be done by any law officers.” He went on to say that
“under present faculty rules, it is unlikely that anyone will be suspended from school if someone is caught drinking at
an after-party, unless he is acting in an extremely ungentlemanly manner.”

Bill Bondurant, college attorney, reported that rarely does any big trouble occur during dance weekends. “Usually, only one or two
students are stopped during a dance weekend, and those for relatively minor offenses.”

According to the ABC enforcement officer, any future crackdowns will be carried out by local, county, and state law enforcement
agencies plus local and state ABC enforcers. Charles B. Knox, a member of the local ABC board and a Charlotte
attorney, stated in an article printed in The Charlotte News that the ABC force would do little investigating of the
“brown baggers.” Knox said that since there are only 14 ABC law enforcers in the county, it is “more important
to fight bootleggers than brown-baggers.”

Faculty Postpones Action

Court self-study was set up by the Student Council

REFERENDUM PLANNED

By BILLY FARR
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Body Regulations Board proposed by the Honor Court in their meeting Wednesday night. There will be a referendum
to transfer the power of judging violations of the regulations from the Honor Court to the new Board. The Council
will operate under the same procedures as the Honor Court and will work with the Investigating Committee, also proposed by
the Honor Court self-study.

As set up by the Student Council, the board will consist each year of the president of the three upper
classes, the vice-president of the senior class, and the freshman advisor, with the senior class president as chairman. Next year’s
Board will consist of Paul Marion, chairman, Mike Powell, Frank Murphy, John Fagg, and Bill Rikard.

UP AND AWAY

This mechanical giraffe greeted Davidson students as they passed Chambers Building on their way to the library this week. It
was used to lift materials to the fourth-floor attic in Chambers Auditorium due for renovation of the ceiling to begin
next month. (Staff Photo by Purvis.)

On a motion by John Fagg, the Student Council voted to disaffiliate financially and officially with NSA, effective next fall.
The action followed a student referendum asking an end to further affiliation.

Chuck Matthews introduced a letter concerning a student government workshop to be held at North Carolina College in Durham on
April 16. Papers will be presented on the topics of development of effective communications, effective student legislatures, and the role
of campus parties in student government. The papers will be followed by discussions. Anyone interested in attending this conference should
contact Matthews.

Social Council President Vince Foster submitted a plan for the selection of members of the Council for next year. The
plan is the same as that last year, consisting of a president, a treasurer, the Union and IFC presidents, representatives
from the fraternities, next year's freshman class, Lingle Manor, and the independents at large.

Tom Earnhardt proposed that the selection of Independents by the Student Council be postponed until a poll could be taken
among Independents to help the Council in their selections.

Several committee appointments were made at the meeting. Appointive posts include Jim Timmons and Bob Bryan to the Financial Committee,
Frank Murphy to be in charge of the gun room, Fletcher Hartsell to the Magazine Advisory Board, and Bill Watson
to the Student Activities Committee. Elective posts include John Fagg on the Academic Scheduling Committee, Tom Earnhardt on the Non-Academic
Scheduling Committee, and Bill Watson on the Traffic Committee.

Posts to be filled from the student body at large next week will include the two seniors and one junior
to compose the Investigating Committee to work with the Honor Court and the Student Body Regulations Board, one member to
serve on the Religious Life Committee and the Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life, and two members each for
the committee on Artist Series and public lectures and for the Athletic Council. Matthews asks that anyone interested in these
posts contact a Student Council member before Monday.

FRONTIS JOHNSTON

Vespers Controversy

Recommendation Asks A Complete Abolishment

The faculty, in action at its monthly meeting Tuesday, left standing until May a proposal by Davidson's Religious Life Committee
to abolish required Vespers. According to Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston, the postponement was due to a faculty practice concerning
policy matters, whereby the faculty has to be informed 48 hours ahead of time “to give them the opportunity to
think it over and study it.” To have acted immediately on the issue, said Johnston, “would have been contrary to
both practice and the Committee’s expectations.”

In addition, Johnston announced to the faculty a program to study and revise the entire curriculum at Davidson. The faculty
will choose a committee to work

Lesesne Names Staff Members

DAVIDSONIAN editor-in-chief Louis Lesesne announced staff positions for the 1966-67 edition of the paper as the annual post-holiday changeover took
place this week.

Chris Hawk will be business manager for the paper. Hawk, a junior member of Pi Kappa Alpha, is from Charleston,
S. C. He served as copy editor on last year’s staff.

Serving as associate editors will be John Bailey, Arch McCallum, and Paul Marion. Bailey, a junior from Danville, Ky., will
write a bi-weekly column. He has previously served as assistant managing editor on the staff. McCallum, a member of Beta
Theta Pi from Dillon, S. C., will write special assignment stories, as will Marion, a member of Kappa Sigma from
Charlotte.

‘TOTALITY OF DAVIDSON LIFE’

Committee Challenges Fraternities

By KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Asst. Managing Editor

The Social Life Evaluation Committee this week issued a report challenging Davidson fraternities to “redefine their very nature,” “broaden their
scope,” and become more conscious of their responsibilities. The committee presented the report in response to its instruction to “state
what role is expected of fraternities and other social clubs on the Davidson campus.” With this statement, the committee essentially
completed its task ofanalyzing and evaluating Davidson social life. It had previously presented a set of recommendations for rush, among
them 100 per cent affiliation, second semester rush, and required freshmen eating in the College Union cafeteria for the entire
school year, which were adopted by the faculty in late February.

SOCIAL SYSTEM

In its latest report, the evaluation group stressed that it was necessary to consider Davidson's social system not separately, but
in its relation to campus life as a whole: “concern for the totality of Davidson life” must be the background
and ultimate concern in a discussion of any one aspect of that life. After establishing this background, the report deals
with problems centering in two major areas, “frequently labeled with the emotionally charged terms ‘rejection’ and ‘anti-intellectualism’ but more simply
and objectively viewed in terms of the lives of students who are so included.”

In dealing with the first of these problems, the committee agreed that “the college's abandonment to fraternities of responsibility for
many areas of campus life has shown little concern for the well-being of these students who are not fraternity members.”

RESPONSIBILITY

They further agree that the college has a responsibility to each of its students and should offer them opportunities for
full participation in the life of the campus. They assert that the fraternity system, although autonomous in many respects, exists
on campus by invitation of the college and becomes a part of the structure of the college. Thus, the fraternity
system shares the responsibility of the college to its students.

Because of these considerations, the committee “feels little reluctance in asking (of the fraternities) that they collectively find ways of
providing to any student who may desire them, many of the opportunities which they offer.”

EATING CLUBS

The committee adds that it does not expect “to hold fraternities solely responsible for the welfare of all students”; along
this line of thought, it advocates a study of the uses and potentialities of the College Union, with particular emphasis
on the responsibility of the Union to the students who eat there. It also recommends the addition on campus of
open-membership eating clubs. The report emphasizes that such changes as eating clubs, “designed to make the externals of existence of
those not invited into the fraternity systems, will be effective only if accompanied by a change of attitude by the
fraternities.”

The committee expresses the hope that the fraternities will “learn to see in individuals potentials which may often be overlooked
because of present criteria of acceptance.” The members of the group feel that the individual students, the fraternity system itself,
and the college as a whole would benefit by such a change of attitude.

SECOND PROBLEM

In dealing with the second problem, the effect of fraternities on students who are involved in the system, the committee
admits the “impossibility of isolating fraternity membership as a contributing factor to undesirable aspects of the ethics of students.” The
report adds, however, that “the effect of the interaction of the individuals making up a given fraternity may often be
to reinforce and intensify certain value patterns which are, of course, not peculiar to fraternity members.”

The committee emphasizes that it is not attempting “to lay on fraternities the major share of blame for observed discrepancies
between student values and those values which should be fostered at a college such as Davidson.”

CORRECTION

“Insofar as such discrepancies do occur,” the report continues, “the blame can undoubtedly be widely distributed. We are interested, however,
not in blame, but in correction—and here fraternities and other student groups can play a significant role.”

The committee sees the ideal role of the fraternity system in this context of increased participation in campus life. They
recognize as valuable the present contributions of the fraternity system (organized social life, advantage of close association with others, opportunities
for leadership and developing a sense of responsibility to others), but they ask the fraternities to go beyond these contributions.

PARTICIPATION

They ask that fraternities think of themselves as part of the structure of the Davidson community, not as social organizations
apart from that community. The report lays particular stress on increased fraternity participation in the academic life of the college
by such methods as encouraging participation in worthwhile extra-curricular activities, in sponsoring speakers or discussions, and the like.

The evaluation group recommends that the fraternities choose their policies on the basis of what will be beneficial to the
college as a whole, not to the fraternity system alone.

OBLIGATION

For, the report continues, the fraternities are ultimately a part of the college. Because of this fact, the committee feels
no reluctance in asking them to “broaden their scope” and “to relinquish some of their long-standing rights of selection.” The
fraternity system, as an integral part of the college community, shares in the obligation to improve the quality of campus
life and has the responsibility to help realize the college’s goal of “nurturing the whole man.”

The committee members concluded their report with the statement: “All we can do is express our belief that fraternities and
the College are not foes, and that fraternities can make even more important contributions in the future than they have
in the past.”

EPES’ COMMENTS

Professor H. M. Epes, a member of the group, called the report “more a guideline than a specific proposal.”

“At present we're just experimenting,” he said. “We're extending these general ideas to the fraternities and are going to see
what they can come up with.”

“We believe that actions along the lines we have suggested will be of benefit both to the college and the
fraternities themselves,” Epes concluded.

Mike Harrington, who served as associate editor on the 1965-66 DAVIDSONIAN staff, will write a column for the remainder of
the year. Replacing him next year as columnist will be Ed Dwelle, a junior from Jacksonville, Fla.

Managing editors will be Sam Boyte and Bob Travers. Boyte, from Winston-Salem, will be in charge of the three news
pages each week. He served as news editor this past year. Travers, a sophomore from Woodbury, Conn., will be in
charge of the editorial page and also the features page which will appear on alternate weeks.

Sports editor will be Tom Cook, a sophomore member of Pi Kappa Alpha from Perry, Ga. Cook held the position
of assistant managing editor this year. News editor will be Robbie Hooker, a freshman from Chapel Hill. Feature editor will
be Lindsay Davis, a sophomore from Greensboro and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Davis has held this position since
the second semester this year. Rick Mildner, a sophomore from Elmont, N. Y., will be copy editor. He is a
member of Sigma Chi.

Assistant managing editors will be Charles McEwen and Kern Parker. McEwen, a freshman, is from Ashland, Va. Parker is a
sophomore from Bluefield, W. Va. Yates Faison will be assistant sports editor. Faison is a freshman from Charlotte.

“I'm real pleased with the new staff members,” Lesesne commented, “They’ll have a lot of experience and enthusiasm and have
the potential to put out the best DAVIDSONIAN yet. Several members will be working on newspapers this summer, and the
professional experience will be invaluable next year.”

with him at its next meeting May 3. The Religious Life Committee’s report, as well as calling for the cessation
of vespers, suggested in two appendices several ways of “maintaining tangible expressions of Davidson's commitment as a Christian college.”

“The committee has come reluctantly to the conclusion that vespers is not accomplishing the purpose for which it was originally
intended,” reads the report. “Vespers does not have the support of students,” and it is no longer “a genuine expression
of Christian commitment on the part of the individual or the institution.”

To maintain Davidson's commitment, the committee recommended: (1) continued and improved “weekly chapel programs centering on religious themes,” (2) a
restructure of “the organizational pattern for the implementation of the religious program of Davidson,” and (3) more “voluntary programs of
religious activities” supervised by a Committee of Religious Policy and a Committee of Religious Program and Activity.

The committee's resolution reads: “That compulsory vesper services cease at the end of this academic year and that a comprehensive
program of religious activities as suggested in this report become the expression of Davidson's Christian commitment.”

Although he hinted at “significant changes in curriculum,” Johnston said that he didn’t “have a particular goal in mind. We'll
start from scratch, re-study the whole program, and devise what seems to be more up-to-date and desirable. I don't have
any details as yet, but eventually it will be a major consideration for the College.”

In other business, the faculty granted Saturday, April 16, as a holiday; voted on honorary degrees; and heard a report
concerning the trustee committee on revision of trustee bylaws.

Faculty Suspends Classes For Frolics

Classes will be suspended next Saturday during Spring Frolics, as the faculty approved Tuesday an earlier proposal by the Academic
Scheduling Committee. The action came as a result of a student-directed move to equalize the number of Monday-Wednesday-Friday and Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday
classes. The Committee had earlier scheduled 46 TTS classes, to only 45 for MWF.
