PAGE FOUR

Thel, Dwelle Present Joint Annual Platform

The Publications Board has approved the candidacy of Tom Thel and Ed Dwelle as co-editors of the Quips and Cranks.
Since no other candidates filed for the office, they will be unopposed in Monday's voting for the office. Thel and
Dwelle released the following statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN, in lieu of a platform:

"We've run together because it seems reasonable. Both of us want what we call an amount of here and now.
There will be no attempt at a unifying theme and no editorializing. What we will do is try to describe
what seems to be going on next year—mostly with photographs and few words. We aren't just now anti-anything and deny
the idea of a metaphysic for an annual, which here means that we don’t even try to know why there
should be an annual publication anyway. There will be pictures of cracks in walls and bald heads and people getting
brownie points, if we can manage. It might be an artistic unsuccess, but it will be about Davidson."

Elections (Continued From Page One)

Juniors: Penn Spell, Dave Pertin, Chip Pendleton, and Steve Bruce.
Sophomores: Charlie Gorham, Skip Balsley, Mike Milton, Rusty Brannon, Neal Martin, and David Jennings.
Freshmen: Al Varner, Larry Slade, Johnny Durham, K. D. Weeks, George Register, Fred Lowrence, Randy Bridges, and Harry Hamil.

YMCA

Y president candidates are Joe Jelks and Skip Waite. Y vice president candidates are Steve Humphrey, Bobby Lane, and Mike
Mooty. Secretary candidates are Ed Embree, Bobby King, Al Pearson, Hal Shaw, and Greg Simmons. Treasurer candidates are Charles Cameron,
Chip Clark, Steve Faulk, Joe Norton, Clyde Timmons, and John Williams.

STUDENT COUNCIL

Junior candidates for Student Council are Ken Autrey, Tom Brown, Lewis Davis, Ben King, and Jim Timmons. Sophomore candidates are
Steve Couch, Clay Ford, Duncan McRae, Mike Powell, Geoff Seamans, Chip Vogan, and Bruce Weihe. Freshmen running for Student Council
are Tom Alison, Mike Dickens, Don Gately, Marshall Guill, Fletcher Hartsell, Doug King, Chuck Mendenhall, Dan Mombrea, Frank Murphy, John
Napier, John Passmore, Jeff Pflugner, Bill Richmond, Johnny Roe, and John Warren.

Vespers Changes Proposed

A number of sweeping changes in the Vespers program will be presented to the Religious Life Committee Monday. The changes
include proposals that Vespers be held every other week, that Vespers and chapel cuts be combined, and that no credit
be given for morning worship attendance. Mike Mooty and Murray Smith, student members of the committee, are sponsoring the proposed
changes.

In addition, the changes ask that a committee be established to be in charge of the Vespers service. The emphasis
would be on having local speakers, rather than outside preachers. “There are several advantages to this,” Smith told THE DAVIDSONIAN.
“Having only local speakers gives more control over the speakers’ topics, and a unified theme for a year can be
worked out.”

The proposals have been endorsed by the YMCA Cabinet. “We are real optimistic about the chances for this proposal,” Smith
said. “We've talked to all the faculty members on the committee, and they were generally pretty receptive to the idea.”
Smith emphasized that the solution was by no means perfect, but urged students to remember that “we're working within certain
limitations and we've got to work in these boundaries.” “We feel that this is better than the present solution,” he
said.

The Committee proposed by the recommended policy would be headed by the chaplain and composed of the pastor of the
College Church, a representative of the Department of Bible and Religion, and a representative of students chosen from the Y
Cabinet. Services would be conducted by students and faculty together. One of the recommended policies encourages “faculty members to include
college Vespers in their regular schedule of worship.” “This is one of the important aspects of the change,” Smith said.
“We're trying to get back to the idea of corporate worship.”

“must be heard to be believed”
Friday, March 18
8:15 P.M.
OVENS AUDITORIUM
Tickets on sale at:
Coliseum Box Office
National Hat Shop
Admissions $2.00, $2.50, $3.00

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Charles Vick

Charles Vick, a rising senior, is an English-philosophy major, secretary of Sigma Upsilon, a past member of the Davidsonian and
Scripts and Pranks staffs, and a member of the Eumanean Literary Society.

The Miscellany has attempted to produce a magazine of high quality as a vehicle for the publication of work by
students and persons related to this college. The second issue of the Miscellany is to be out late this month.
In accord with the stated principle, it will contain three or four short stories, several essays, poetry, an interview with
Stephen Spender, two reviews, and color prints of Herb Jackson's paintings along with several of his poems. This will amount
to close to one hundred pages.

Two criticisms have been raised: (1) shortage of student contributions, and (2) no humor. First, our policy is that the
students contribute and that the staff edit. More and more students are contributing, and we are beginning to develop the
backlog of material which is essential to consistent quality. Secondly, no humor has been contributed. The magazine which the Miscellany
replaced assigned staff members to write humor and borrow cartoons, producing a publication of doubtful value. The staff, if it
is to do its primary job properly, cannot be burdened with writing assignments. Even beyond that, good humor is difficult
to write, as Punch’s editor pointed out. The Miscellany would print good humor if it were to be contributed.

In running for re-election as editor, I can only say that literary quality and flexibility of format would remain the
central tenets of the editorial policy. Students' contributions would still constitute the matter of the magazine. I feel that it
is this policy coupled with the editorial election that definitely makes the Miscellany the students' magazine. The material would not
be limited to staff assignments or to specific literary or pictorial forms. This magazine is doing a job for the
college and for the students. It is important that this, Davidson’s only literary outlet, grow and develop. The Miscellany has
already been a participant in two national exhibits and has received favorable critical comments from these and other sources.and students
from this and other colleges. I would certainly appreciate the chance to continue with the growth and development of the
Miscellany this one more year.

The Davidson debate team was defeated in two tournaments this past weekend, a varsity meet at Duke and a novice
meet at Lenoir Rhyne. Davidson sent two teams to each tournament, with Greg Haynes, Tom Rhodes, Mike Mooty, and Tom
Earnhardt composing the varsity teams and Fletcher Hartsell, Charles Eakes, Jim Cooley, and Shep Johnston constituting the novice teams. At
Duke, the team of Rhodes and Haynes finished with a record of 3-3, as did the team of Mooty and
Earnhardt. However, both teams lost speaker points and failed to place. At Lenoir Rhyne, Cooley and Johnston were 3-3, while
Hartsell and Eakes were 5-1. The score equaled that of the winners, but the team again lost speaker points and
failed to qualify. Coach Ray McMillin cites lack of experience as the main reason that Davidson has won only one
trophy this year, a third place at the University of Georgia Tournament. He also pointed to limited library facilities as
a factor in the lack of success.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
CHICKEN
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches

(Staff Photo by Thel)

UNION PRESIDENT CANDIDATES BOB DUGGER, PETER PARROT JUMPS INTO CAMPAIGN FEET FIRST

We love you, WILDCATS! Congratulations, Basketballers, for your thrilling performance. We wish you continuing SOLID SUCCESS as you go into
the NCAA Eastern Regionals. And when you think of winners in SUITS, PANTS, SPORT COATS, SHIRTS, and TIES for your
Spring wardrobe, think of us. We have the winning brands — CLOTHES FOR THE PACESETTING TRADITIONALIST.
John Mack & Son
Mooresville
A Charge Account Is Yours For The Asking

Daily Food Specials
TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING
Small and Large Pizzas
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
Eat Under Tropical Palms
TASTEE FREEZ
SVILLE

Philip Jones, a rising junior, is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society and worked on Scripts and Pranks his
freshman year, in which he had a byline.

We feel that the present magazine does not properly represent the Davidson Student Body. Student contributions have been too few
and have not been of the quality of which Davidson students are capable. The material in The Miscellany has been
too “arty” and definitely does not reflect campus interests. We feel that students find it hard to identify with literature
consisting of short stories by faculty members and translations of foreign poetry. Talent, both serious and satirical, is present on
campus, but it has not been represented in the present magazine. At a liberal arts college, such talent should be
provided with a proper outlet other than English assignments. Thus, we need a student-oriented publication, and the present magazine is
not meeting this need. We would propose a re-emphasis on student literary effort and on student satire. The publication should
be expanded to three issues, two of which represent good original humor and the other serving as a review of
serious literary works, such as poetry and short stories. To facilitate the collection and assembling of material, we would set
up a permanent writing staff given definite writing assignments. This staff would be divided into literary and satirical departments, each
headed by an assistant editor and responsible for its respective issues. Each issue would contain reviews of items of student
interest such as books, plays, music, comic books, flicks at the Fox, the ‘World 500,’ etc. The creative effort of
any student would be welcomed. This, coupled with the assigned work of the writing staff, would provide the necessary material
for three good issues. We intend to produce a publication by members of the Davidson academic community and reflective of
its tastes and interests.

On Campus (By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

WAKE ME WHEN IT’S OVER

The trouble with early morning classes is that you're too sleepy. At late morning classes you're too hungry. At early
afternoon classes you're too logy. At late afternoon classes you're too hungry again. The fact is—and we might as well
face it—there is no good time of day to take a class. What shall we do then? Abandon our colleges
to the ivy? I say no! I say America did not become the hope of mankind and the world’s largest
producer of butterfats and tallow by running away from a fight! If you’re always too hungry or too sleepy for
class, then let’s hold classes when you're not too hungry or sleepy: namely, while you're eating or sleeping. Classes while
eating are a simple matter. Just have a lecturer lecture while the eaters eat. But watch out for noisy foods.
I mean who can hear a lecturer lecture when everybody is crunching celery or matzo or like that? Serve quiet
stuff—like anchovy paste on a doughnut, or steaming bowls of lamb fat.

Now let us turn to the problem of learning while sleeping. First, can it be done? Yes, it can. Psychologists
have proved that the brain is definitely able to assimilate information during sleep. Take, for instance, a recent experiment conducted
by a leading Eastern university (Stanford). A small tape recorder was placed under the pillow of the subject, a freshman
named Wrobert Wright. When Wrobert was fast asleep, the recorder was turned on. Softly, all through the night, it repeated
three statements in Wrobert’s slumbering ear:
1. Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109 and is called “The Founder of English Eclectic Philosophy.”
2. The banana plant is not a tree but a large perennial herb.
3. The Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated in 1914 at Sarajevo by a young nationalist named Miilas Cvetnic, who has been
called “The Trigger of World War I.”

In the morning, the psychologists said to him, “Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109. What is he called?”
Wrobert promptly answered, “Perennial Herb.” Next, they asked him, “What has Miilas Cvetnic been called?” Wrobert replied, “Perennial Serb.” Finally,
they said, “Is the banana plant a tree?” “To be honest,” said Wrobert, “I don’t know too much about bananas.
But if you gents want any information about razor blades, I'm a trove.” “Well,” said the psychologists, “can you tell
us a blade that shaves closely and cleanly without nicking, pricking, scratching, scraping, scoring, gouging, grinding, flaying or irritating?” “Yes,
I can,” said Wrobert. “Personna® Stainless Steel Blades. Not only does Personna give you a true luxury shave, but it
gives you heaps and gobs and bushels and barrels of true luxury shaves—each one nearly as truly luxurious as the
first.” “Land’s sake!” said the psychologists. “Moreover,” said Wrobert, “Personna is available not only in the Double Edge style blade,
but also in the Injector style blade.” “Great balls of fire!” said the psychologists. “So why don’t you rush to
your dealer and get some Personnas at once?” said Wrobert. “We will,” said the psychologists, twinkling, “but there is something
we have to do first.” Whereupon they awarded Wrobert an honorary L.L.B. (Lover of Luxury Blades) degree, and then, linking
arms, they sang and danced and bobbed for apples till the campfire had turned to embers.

© 1966, Max Shulman

If you’re looking for an honorary degree yourself, we recommend B.S. (Burma Shave®)—from the makers of Personna, it soaks rings
around any other lather; it comes in regular or menthol.
