Che BDautdsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

Curtis HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

An Omission

The curriculum study committee is now filled and ready to undertake a prolonged examination of the college’s entire academic structure. Yet there has been an obvious omission so far: Not a single student representative has been named to the committee. Though no provisions have been made for such a student member, Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston, who will head the group, has agreed to ask the committee to consider the possibility when it begins meeting.

For the nine-member group to refuse to accept a student member would be an affront to the student body and the college itself, as it tries to picture itself as a progressive liberal arts school. For the committee to agree to merely hear student opinion is not enough; students need a guarantee that their ideas will be presented through a voting member of the committee.

The trend in modern educational circles is towards allowing a greater student voice in administrative policies. At Chatham College in Pittsburgh, where students are helping screen faculty prospects, President Edward G. Eddy Jr. sees “genuine student involvement in the formation of educational policy” as offering the “best hope of regaining the lost concept of an academic community,” according to National Observer.

This is no new idea at Davidson, and where it has been utilized previously, students have shown a great deal of maturity. The most salient examples are those of the Religious Life Committee, which was instrumental in bringing about the changed college policy towards worship, and the Social Life Committees, which were largely responsible for the improved social atmosphere on campus.

Placing a student on the committee could by no means be considered allowing students to dominate policy, nor should it be. Faculty members are professional educators, more familiar with the needs of modern academic life. But at the same time, students have a unique viewpoint deserving regular representation on a committee which could well bring about the most important changes in Davidson’s history.

Orientation Ordeal

The Class of 1970 is now “oriented” to Davidson life — at the cost of, in most cases, a week-long ordeal of meetings, speeches and tests, when in truth the entire process of Freshman Camp and Orientation could be telescoped into the time now taken for Orientation alone.

A number of faculty members are concerned that by Sunday of Orientation many freshmen were becoming disenchanted with the whole process, and the formal atmosphere of the faculty reception Sunday afternoon did nothing to mitigate the feeling. During the first two days of the week, the freshmen, eager to begin classes, were faced instead with more tests and speeches.

The most significant reason for the freshmen’s boredom lies in the host of unnecessary activities incorporated in the orientation program, not to mention the hours of free time the freshmen find on their hands, with no constructive means of utilizing it. One and one-half days are used for issuing ROTC uniforms, taking PE tests and library tours. The PE and ROTC activities could be administered much more efficiently by the respective departments during class time, while the most practical system of introducing freshmen to the library could be undertaken by faculty members who could present the library to the freshmen in the context with which the new Davidsonians would be using that institution.

The orientation process would be much more meaningful if such reforms could be undertaken. Freshmen are probably the most eager group on campus to learn, and it would be shameful to leave a bitter taste in their mouth during their first exposure to college life.

Whither The Laundry?

The manner in which laundry prices were raised over the summer is unfortunate, to say the least. Unlike last year’s price hike, which was made early enough to be included in the catalogue, students had no way of knowing of the second increase until a month ago.

It has never been a secret that the laundry operated at a loss and that a price rise would be likely for the 1966-67 year. But it was not until late May that the Business Office began definitely making plans for the next year’s operation. At that time, the last edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN had been published and only a small number of students knew of the possibility of a rise in prices and of the alternatives to a price rise.

The understanding given then to certain students was that the laundry would probably undergo approximately a $10,000 loss in the coming year if it continued to operate at the rate of $85 per student. But officials of the Business Office indicated that the college budget would allow the laundry to operate at such a loss for another year. In the meantime, a realistic plan for erasing the deficit could be worked out, to the satisfaction of both student needs and financial necessity.

It was further understood that should prices be raised over the summer, an alternative would be provided. Among those mentioned were the possibility of installing coin-operated washing machines for laundering clothes needing no ironing, which could be operated in conjunction with a laundry charging on a per-piece basis, rather than a flat yearly rate.

No such alternative has been provided, and students are faced with the same laundry setup, with the same second-class work and the same one-bag-per-week restriction. The new figure paid for laundry comes very near to what one would pay at a commercial laundry, which can guarantee top quality service. Indeed, many students are probably paying more than they would for commercial service.

There is no doubt that rising labor costs, which are going up constantly, are making the laundry more and more costly to operate. And there is no doubt that the peculiar nine-month operation of the college laundry makes it difficult to keep employees. But that doesn’t alter the fact that requiring every student to subscribe to the college laundry service at a commercial rate is unfair.

Laundry officials have said that because records are already kept on each package of laundry that is brought in, it would be no more expensive to keep records and charge by the piece rate. Such a method would be much more equitable to all concerned. The laundry is, after all, provided primarily for student convenience and this should be its goal. Naturally, it should be financially solvent, but this goal should not cause the college to lose sight of the laundry’s primary purpose.

Where's The Court?

An interesting contradiction appears in the 1966-67 edition of the Wildcat Handbook: Joe Jelks’ letter to the freshmen states matter-of-factly on page 7 that “there will be no court or regulations this year,” referring to the Freshman Court. Yet, Section 5 of the Bylaws to the Student Council (or is it Section 6, since there are two Section 2's?) explicitly outlines the organization and duties of the Freshman Court.

Admittedly, the court has degenerated in the past several years to a point where it had become something of a joke to freshmen called upon to answer such charges as not wearing beanies or walking across the grass. Yet it is too arbitrary a step to completely disband the court simply because some individuals find it ineffectual. Either it should be restructured or done away with. If the latter course is followed, the normal procedure for amending the constitution should be followed. If the former course is taken, steps should be taken to get the court in step with 1966—the court should concentrate on Davidson traditions, rather than such trivia as failure to wear name tags or to speak to others on campus.

Whichever course is taken, it will be preferable to the present situation, in which the student body is out in the cold as to what is the actual status of the court.

EASY TRANSITION

Warm Welcome Is Theme Of Orientation

By SAM DARBY Staff Writer

This article was intended as a satire of Orientation Week. We thought that we would mimic Dr. Johnston and Miss Brittain, and then the various hall counselors (notably Chief Owen and his unforgettable initiation speech); then move on to a humorous look at French tests and the confessions of a $24,000-a-year basketball coach (left-out Greaselle); topping the whole thing off with additions to the freshman beanie (cape, boots, tights: Fresh Man).

Impressions

I LIKE DAVIDSON THERE IS SUCH A WONDERFUL SILENCE HERE, AND THE QUIET PEACE OF THE GREEK COLUMNS

But we cannot do this honestly. Satire should be used to hurt, but with the intention of improving. The general impression given during this week was “Welcome to Davidson,” a sincere wish that we would make our transition to college life with as much ease as possible. From Mrs. Nicholls’ reception to Mr. Smith’s and Dr. Hight's asking to know us better, we felt welcome and wanted. Many people — Bill Rikard, Gary DeVane, Vince Foster—almost everyone who addressed the Freshman Class.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Wie has asked for ideas, objections, anything that would give us a chance to know them better and to feel at home. Ben King's and the Social Union’s (and the IBM's) trouble over the Queens Mixer brought results and gave us still another chance to know people and to meet many others. The supper at Lake Norman, the Activities Fair and in general the whole atmosphere this week should be deeply appreciated by us freshmen, and definitely has given us the chance we need to learn about Davidson. Its gratitude and hopes that it can follow the example that has been set. We thank you all.

The Freshman Class proffers its gratitude and hopes that it can follow the example that has been set. We thank you all.

Handbook Termed Better Than Its Predecessors
A Review By GEOFF SEAMANS
Staff Writer

The 1966-67 Wildcat Handbook, while not perfect, is an improvement over recent issues of the publication. Compared to last year's edition, the new Handbook is better written, more informative and more handsomely bound. One assures that the general attitudes which formed the publication are expressed in the Foreword. For this reason, an analysis of the Foreword seems helpful in an attempt to articulate a response to the work.

The Foreword of this year's Handbook is definitely superior to last year’s. Both contain the usual cautionary paragraph pointing out that the italicized parts contain merely the opinions of the writer.

WARNING

Alva Whitehead, this year's editor, assumes a very un-Olympian stance in his warning against taking the editorial matter too seriously. He recognizes a divergence of opinion within the student body: “Search for the ‘Golden Mean’,” philosophizes Whitehead, “between what we may write and others may say.” The editor of the 1965-66 Handbook also found a divergence in campus opinion, but in the form of a dichotomy between official college position and student body opinion. In contrast to Whitehead, last year’s editor makes no mention of divergence of opinion within the student body. Whitehead’s remarks seem more complete and thus accurate.

SUPERIOR LANGUAGE

Whitehead's use of the language is also superior to the style of last year’s Handbook. For instance, one finds in the 1966-67 edition no run-on sentences, in contrast to the first sentence of last year’s Foreword. Also, Whitehead's description of last year’s Social Council as “virgin” is infinitely fresher and more appealing than anything in the Foreword of last year’s issue.

One quibble, however, is in order. Typographical errors are numerous throughout the Handbook, and the Foreword is no different from the rest of the work. One assumes that “bias” should be “biased” in the last paragraph, and one hopes that the misspelling of “knowledgeable” in the first line of the second paragraph is simply a typographical error.

LACKS COLOR

The major criticism this reviewer levels against the 1966-67 Wildcat Handbook is not so much what it contains but what it doesn't. This kind of criticism violates a cardinal rule of book reviewing and is perhaps unfair; nonetheless, one wishes that excellent pieces like Gary DeVane’s “So You Want to Be a Davidson Gentleman” in the 1965-66 Handbook could be repeated from year to year along with the more pedestrian, banal stuff like the Student Body Constitution and the Faculty Regulations.

In addition, highly controversial areas of campus life (e.g., fraternities) could be portrayed with greater candor. Perhaps a solution would be to allow people with differing opinions to editorialize on the same subject.

Other improvements briefly noted are the inclusion of a map of the town of Davidson and a reduction in the number of freshmen without pictures. Also, combining the religion and military sections adds a nice touch.

Fools’ Names
Associate Editors:

Of Fools And Fools
By EDWARD DWELLE
Associate Editor

WEBSTER’S THIRD NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY defines the noun fool as “a person lacking in judgment or prudence” and continues to elaborate on this concept for about a half of a column, while the OXFORD ENGLISH DICTIONARY spends almost a full page giving the historical background of the word. Indeed, the concept of the fool has been greatly used and abused in our Western Civilization from Biblical times on. The fool in the Bible is not particularly a silly man but one who is utterly corrupt in his moral character. The first verse of Psalm 14 condemns the fool quite plainly: “The Fool says in his heart, ‘There is no God.’ They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds, there is none that does good.” Someplace else I think the Scripture says that you will be damned in Hell if you call someone a fool, but I can’t find the passage at present. We are all competent Bible scholars here at Davidson.

That other great source of wisdom for Anglo-Saxon man, the works of Will Shakespeare, makes frequent reference to the fool or fools; and, in King Lear, the Fool is a central figure. For the Shakespearean world, the fool was a symbol for that type of person who wavered on the line between craziness and genius. He was both wise and stupid, mixing his wisdom with his puns and foolery. But he was more often right than not.

I’m something of a fool. We're fond of categories and labels here so I will label myself a fool; you may attach whatever connotation to the word you may desire. I plan to write this column every once in a while and to spout at will about whatever comes my way; I invite any criticism or comments which anyone who is foolish enough to read my dribble (not Dibble) may care to submit.

‘Browning’ Hinders Faculty Relations

In fact I’m going to spout a bit of criticism myself this week: I should like to beseech that mythical “typical Davidson student” to refrain from constantly accusing his “fellow students” of “browning professors.” All of you elderly readers will recognize this phenomenon as “apple polishing.”

The size of this college obviously has its disadvantages as well as advantages; one of the most important of the latter is the opportunity to have a relatively close personal relationship with one’s professors. You may not think much of a professor’s teaching ability, but I will guarantee you that each one of these men has a wealth of experience and knowledge which can benefit you and make your undergraduate career more rewarding than you would imagine.

I think that the accusations and kidding of his peers can be very damaging to a student’s attempt to form an out-of-class relationship with a professor. Perhaps seniors are not as susceptible to this type of conformity, but it seems to be fairly prevalent at all levels. There is no reason for it; if you don’t want to take advantage of the situation, don’t prevent another person from doing so.

That’s the negative side of my criticism; the positive side is quite simple: Get to know those professors that you can, wherever you can, whenever you can. No more need be said.

In conjunction with this last point, I want to urge that you visit faculty homes whenever you can. There is no Open House schedule for this Sunday night, but it will begin soon. Each year it seems that Freshmen are the only students who visit on Sunday nights; but if some of the upperclassmen would participate these visitations could become more than an “apa and tun” affair. Moreover, there are some wives that are more interesting than their husbands! It is quite possible that one could learn as much or more from his non-classroom experiences with a professor than in any formal class situation. Presumably you're here to learn, and I think this is one of the best ways to do so. At the least, don’t criticize those who try to form genuine friendships with their professors. You'll be a fool if you criticize them in your bull sessions. Remember: “Fools’ names and fools’ faces are often seen in public places.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during examination periods and holidays.

News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER
Feature Editor: LINDSAY DAVIS
Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, EDWARD DWELLE, ARCH McCALLUM, PAUL MARION
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE, BILL OLSON
Photographer: BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Managing Editors: CHARLES McEWEN, LOU HILL, KERN PARKER
Sports Editor: TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: John Williams, George Cretekos, Bill Cockrell, Marvin Bethune, Jim Cooley, Frank Anderson, Ed Embree, Chuck Green, Dan White, K. Elliott, Toby Watt, Sam Aycock.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.