GOD ‘DIES’ IN GEORGIA CITY (See Page Two) VOL. LV

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1966

Pitt Rabbi Discusses ‘God Is Dead’ Theme

Dr. Richard Rubenstein, Conservative rabbi and chaplain to Jewish students at Pittsburgh and Duquesne Universities, gave a series of lectures Monday on the “Death of God" theology. In addition to being an ordained rabbi and theologian, Rubenstein is a French professor at Pitt and is an expert on the works of Camus and other French existentialists. “Playboy” magazine recently interviewed him concerning the ‘Death of God" theology and the interview is scheduled to be published later this spring.

Rubenstein appeared at Davidson under the auspices of the YMCA. In his chapel speech Monday morning he discussed both the Christian and Jewish views of the “Death of God" theology. His understanding of theology is based on a relationship between Freudian psychology and religion. Rubenstein traced the origin of God, the father concept of both Christianity and Judaism, to primitive man. Man first formed ‘primal hordes” which were dominated by a tyrannical father to whom all the females of the horde belonged. When the young men of the tribe came to age, they killed the father in order to win his females. These men were jealous, yet they desired to identify with the father and his power, so they ate him, assuming his substance. Rubenstein cited the Jewish practice of sacrifice and the Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation as examples of the first primitive acts. Having murdered the father, the sons felt guilty and could no longer calculate his power so they elevated him from his original physical status to a heavenly concept of God.

Rubenstein says that the “Death of God” problem is not new and that if Freud’s myth is believed, religion developed from murder and the Cross is the recapitulation of the original murder of God. The murder of God's son is the atonement for the original murder. Christians can find atonement in the Resurrection but Jews must find atonement through the law.

Monday evening Rubenstein continued his explanation of his theology, stating that the ancient jealousy and hatred of the father has been directed in modern society toward the clergyman and rabbi. He said that since Auschwitz and the slaughter of millions of Jews in the Second World War he has made a drastic reappraisal of the traditional view of Jewish history. Either Adolf Hitler was the instrument of God's revenge or God is dead. Rubenstein accepts the latter view and adopts an existential attitude toward morality. He says that man can do anything that he wants without being subject to the will of an omnipotent being, but the individual must be willing to accept for himself the consequences of his act.

New Rules Decide Dorm Counselors

Hall counselors for the coming year, chosen this week according to a revised set of standards, will have additional duties, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of dormitories. The group of counselors includes Bill Watson and Tom Irons, Sheff Owen and Neville Patterson, Don Carroll and Chris Hawk, John Allen and Tom Clayton, Marvin Sparrow and Bill Seigler, Bobby Burch and Rusty Brannon. Also, Bobby Lane and Barry St. Clair, Ronnie Hunt and Mike Mooty, Ken Tarleton and Don Goodman, Cecil Clifton and Julian Prosser, Paul Marion and Gary DeVane.

Mrs. Nicholls said that choosing hall counselors this year was especially difficult because ‘‘so many things had to be considered.’ She and Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, who make the choices, attempted to give equal representation to all fraternities and Independents. This was especially difficult since many applied from some fraternities, while few applied from others, she stated. Mrs. Nicholls stated that a decision was made with the consent of Coach Homer Smith not to choose any football players. The reason was that football players will be at football camp for the first two days of school and will be away on Freshman Parents Day. Since these are three of the most important days for freshmen, it was decided to eliminate football players. YMCA Camp counselors also were not chosen because, said Mrs. Nicholls, ‘‘We have so much talent—why concentrate it?"

The changed role of the counselors involves the requirement that they hold hall meetings once a week for the entire year. During Freshman Orientation Week, they will serve as group leaders, because the groups will be organized by halls, she added. The hall counselors will probably make out several reports on their freshmen during the course of the year. However, Mrs. Nicholls stated, “I don’t know honestly whether they serve any purpose in a community as small as ours.”

GREEKS DEEMPHASIZE PLEDGE PROJECTS (See Page Four) NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Faculty To Receive Report Recommends

(Staff. Photo by Olson)

RABBI RUBENSTEIN EULOGIZES GOD
Supports Freudian Myth

Juniors Elect Marion; Remaining Posts Filled

Paul Marion, Mike Powell and Frank Murphy were elected president of the rising Senior, Junior and Sophomore classes respectively as student body elections came to a close. Joe Jelks was elected president of the YMCA by the overwhelming majority of 402 votes to 184 votes for Skip Waite. Jelks, a rising senior from Greenville, S. C., served as vice-president of the YMCA this year. Hal Shaw defeated Greg Simmons 254 votes to 237 in the race for secretary of the YMCA. Steve Faulk was elected treasurer in a run-off with Joe Norton, 261 votes to 233. Don Carroll defeated Lou Hill in a run-off for the new position of Defense Advisor, 265 votes to 160. Carroll, a junior from Scottsville, Va., is a hall counselor and president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Bill Rikard, a junior from Canton, was chosen as the Freshman Advisor in a run-off with Gary DeVane, 67 votes to 59.

For the second consecutive year, Paul Marion was elected president of his class. Marion, a rising senior from Charlotte, polled 101 votes to vice-president John Fagg's 86 votes and secretary-treasurer Jim Timmons’ 68 votes.

Council Supports High Wage

An appeal for higher wages for college workers and other service personnel gained the unanimous support of the Student Council Monday night. A letter presented and written by senior Jack Martens pointed out that 79 out of 99 maintenance workers are paid below the poverty level of income. Most janitorial workers earn between $44 and $56 for a 45-hour week, according to Martens. The importance of the protest is somewhat unique, he said, for it reveals a student step forward to help someone other than the students themselves.

In other Council proceedings, outgoing President Bill Council and senior members Randy McKnight and Dave Meschan were selected to aid the newly-elected Council for the rest of the semester. None of the three were present. Lee Fanning gave a final Elections Committee report, giving special commendation to Allen Johnson, Bill Logan, Thom Blair and Bill Taylor for their help in this year's elections.

John Gresham and Ken Autrey were elected as senior Student Council representatives with 67 and 59 votes respectively. Mike Powell, a sophomore from Perryton, Texas, was elected president of the Junior Class with 102 votes. Ben Cannon and Bill Watson were selected as Student Council representatives with 99 and 86 votes respectively. Freshman Johnny Durham was elected cheerleader in a run-off with Randy Bridges, and David Jennings defeated Rusty Brannon for junior cheerleader in earlier elections. Frank Murphy, a freshman from Winston-Salem, was elected president of the Sophomore Class with 87 votes. Fletcher Hartsell defeated John Passmore today, 94 votes to 89, for sophomore Student Council representative, after both had polled 73 votes in yesterday's run-off.

Gavelmen Travel For Tough Debate

Mike Mooty and Tom Earnhardt are debating in ‘‘one of the toughest tournaments of the season this week,” according to Earnhardt. Debate Coach Ray MacMillin took the two to Washington, D. C., yesterday for the American University Tournament. Approximately 40 schools are participating in the tournament. He also stated that it will probably be the last varsity tournament of the year.

Dickey Will Appear, To Present Award

James Dickey, poet in residency at San Fernando Valley State College in California and recent recipient of a $1,000 National Book Award for 1965, will be on campus Thursday, April 7, and Friday, April 8, for readings of his poetry. Atlanta native Dickey, a 6-3 former football player and combat flier, is considered one of America’s foremost poets. Educated at Clemson and Vanderbilt, he has taught at Rice Institute and at the University of Florida. Dickey has spent nearly six years with advertising agencies in New York and Atlanta. In 1961-62 he worked abroad under a Guggenheim Fellowship. He has been poet in residence at Reed College, Portland, Oregon and San Fernando Valley State College, Northridge, Calif. Dickey has had frequent cover stories in The New York Times Book Review. He is the author of ‘Into The Stone," “Helmets,” and “Drowning With Others." Recently he was appointed consultant in poetry and English to the Library of Congress. Dickey won the poetry prize given by the National Book Association.elections. Also, Fanning stated that voting machines should be investigated in the future to speed up election procedures.

ciation for his fifth book and fourth volume of verse, "Buckdancer’s Choice." In addition, this edition won the Melville Cane Award. On this new collection of poems, Dickens wrote, “This book is intended to extend and amplify the themes already present in my three other books. There is a rather large portion of fantastically ambitious poetry in this one, and in addition some technical experimentation making use of something I call the ‘split line.’

“This is a device for reproducing, I hope, the sequence of thought in the mind in a rapid and discontinuous manner more nearly like (as nearly as I can tell) what really happens when one thinks, reflects, or dreams. I don't know how much value this device has, but it enables me to get some effects I can't seem to get in any other way.”

On Thursday, April 7, Dickey will meet with an advanced composition class and visit with other interested students. That evening he will have a reading of his poetry.

"Significant Changes"

Davidson’s Religious Life Committee will present a report to the faculty next month which, according to Chaplain Will Terry, will recommend “significant changes to enhance the Christian commitment of the college in the eyes of the student body.” The committee met Tuesday to begin to draw up its report and plans to meet once again before the monthly faculty meeting scheduled for April 5.

The proposals, centering largely on Davidson's compulsory Vespers program, will not be made public until after the faculty meets because, according to committee chairman Terry, “the faculty should hear them before they get noised around.” The report, which will also include a statement about chapel, will be the result of two years of study.

“The action of the committee will come out of a long series of talks, reports of many students, and letters to other schools,” said Murray Smith, student committee member and YMCA president. Smith said that the committee considered two sources of student opinion in its Tuesday meeting: a petition signed by 710 students and a random survey of 100 students “most likely to have responsible views.”

The petition urged the abolition of compulsory vespers, and the survey, conducted by student committee member Mike Mooty, was “overwhelmingly unanimous—of over 50 questionnaires returned, only two favored retaining Vespers.” Smith also said that both the size and effect of last Sunday's boycott were “negligible, with absolutely no effect on the committee. The boycott was unnecessary.”

In addition to Terry, Smith, and Mooty, the committee consists of President D. Grier Martin, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, professors Lewis B. Schenck, Daniel D. Rhodes, and Donald B. Plott, and senior Neill McBryde.

Compulsory worship is as old as Davidson itself. According to Terry, church attendance has been required since the college began, although the Vespers program was not begun until the 1930s. “I guess for the benefit of the students.” At first, the cut system was very limited—three or four a year—but around 1960, the cuts were increased to the present level. Two years ago the program was expanded to include the substitution of morning church services in Davidson, and last year it was amended to allow members of the Jewish, Catholic, and Greek Orthodox faiths to worship in their own churches.

On Friday, April 8, he will speak in chapel where he will present, after judging the entries, the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing.

Terry, “but the nature of this controversy over Vespers,” said Lou Hill for The Miscellany and I realize this.” one goes deeper. “When I was here (1950-54), students complained, but I think most of them really felt it was a pretty good thing. Now the students are more offended by it, as well as more inconvenienced by it.”

Smith said that, according to a survey by Dr. Rhodes, “Davidson is the only Presbyterian school in the South that has anything like Vespers.” He urged any student “who wishes to worship voluntarily in the future” to speak to his professors. “It'll be the faculty that makes the final decision,” said Smith. “If the students will seek out their professors, it could have a very significant effect.”

Vespers Proposals

Pikas Take Honors In Scholarship Award

Pi Kappa Alpha led Davidson’s 12 fraternities in scholastic averages for the first semester with 1.924, the Dean of Students Office announced this week. The All-Fraternity Average was 1.746. All Men's and class averages are compiled on a yearly basis only by the Registrar's Office. In second and third places, respectively, were Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma Chi. A statistical comparison of the averages of the fraternities is as follows:

FRATERNITY
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.924
Alpha Tau Omega 1.845
Sigma Chi 1.790
Phi Delta Theta 1.781
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.777
Pi Kappa Phi 1.766
Sigma Nu 1.761
Beta Theta Pi 1.728
Kappa Alpha Order 1.706
Kappa Sigma 1.681
Phi Gamma Delta 1.620
All Fraternity Average 1.746
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.560

HARDIN CLAIMS SUCCESS

Terry Says Attendance Up In Vespers Boycott

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

In spite of an attempted boycott of Vespers Sunday, there were 232 students at the service, a number which Chaplain Will Terry felt is “about average.” In fact, he said, it even surpassed slightly the previous Sunday's attendance.

Buzz Hardin, the leader of the boycott movement, stated, however, that he felt the movement was a “qualified success.”

“The main purpose of the boycott,” said Hardin, “was to give the Davidson students, who are known for their apathy, a chance to translate their feelings about compulsory worship into action. And it certainly accomplished this purpose. There was one group of students which stayed away to carry out the boycott and another group which went to nullify the boycott. Thus the two movements just balanced out.

“Although the Religious Life Committee claimed that it had no effect on their proposals, it certainly had an effect on the members of the committee.” Hardin continued. “President D. G. Martin, Dean Richard C. Burts, Will Terry, and several student members were actively concerned about the threat of a boycott. Part of the movement was apparently misunderstood by many students. We realized that many of the students could not afford a cut, so we encouraged them to go to church in the morning. We only wanted to keep people away from the evening service, which is the supreme expression of required worship.

“As I stated in the sheet which was passed out to all the students on Friday night,” he continued, “I believe that this was a legal, moderate, and mature way to express student opinion.” Although the numbers did not turn out as well as we hoped, the boycott did serve to dramatize students’ feelings about compulsory worship.”

Murray Smith called the boycott “unnecessary” and felt that “most reasonable students would realize this.”

According to Mike Mooty, “The movement was pretty ineffectual, but the organizers were acting in good faith and out of a real desire to express their feelings about required worship. It was the most responsible type of action the leaders could have taken. It had no effect, however, on the considerations of the Religious Life Committee.”

“It could have been a peaceful, harmless way of showing student opinion,” stated Buck Lawrimore, “but apparently it didn't work out as well as the leaders hoped it would.”

Staff Takeover Brings Openings

With the changeover in DAVIDSONIAN staffs which will be taking place after spring break, there will be a number of open positions on both the editorial and business staffs. Editorial positions are available both on the reporting and copy desk staff. Several positions for advertising salesmen are available on the business staff. Interested students should contact Managing Editor Sam Boyte or Business Manager Chris Hawk as soon as possible.

Frolics To Boast Temptations, Coasters

The Temptations and the Coasters will headline the Friday night concert of Spring Frolics April 15. Both groups will present two shows. The concerts will be held either in front of Chambers or in the football stadium, according to Vince Foster, newly elected chairman of the Social Council.

Following the concert there will be a movie in the Union and a breakfast Saturday morning from 2:30 till 4. Saturday afternoon, if weather permits, entertainment will be at the Lake Campus, with a hamburger supper that night.

“We're not sure about the Saturday night concert yet,” continued Foster, “but it definitely won't be rock n’ roll.” Another movie will be shown in the Union after the concert, and plans are in the making for some type of after-party in the Union Saturday night, he added.

COASTERS TO APPEAR FRIDAY NIGHT OF SPRING FROLICS

Social Council Tries To Redeem Itself