PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1966

Sociologist McKinney Tells Of Growing South
By ALLEN WEBB
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Duke sociologist John C. McKinney made a very scholarly case in discussing the direction of growth and change in the South in Tuesday’s chapel. Making the point that the South is changing in the same direction as the rest of the nation and at a rate actually in favor of the Southern region, the speaker illustrated his thesis with numerous statistical references that were met with what the soft-spoken professor later called “restlessness.” After one long and very loud whistle, McKinney smiled, said “Thank you” and skipped over further percentage references.

McKinney, who serves as chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Duke, is a transplanted Californian who loves the South and who applauds the many visible changes that are having a decisive impact on the South. McKinney added that he does not like the mass media’s picture of the South as a “colorful land full of Negroes, creoles, mountaineers, snake handlers, bootleggers, redneck sheriffs and itinerant preachers.”

During most of his address, McKinney decried the emphasis on the intransigence of race relations in the South and the idiosyncrasies of Southern politics, countering these charges with references to strong trends of urbanization, industrialization, improved transportation and accelerated economic development. “This is a time of concern for traditional values,” the graying professor said, “but new goals will be reached after the resolution of the imbalance between verbal and real situations.”

In the coffee hour that followed chapel, McKinney answered each question in his own deliberate, methodical style, evidencing a keen intellect and a genuine concern for the future of the South. In a very brief but pregnant phrase, he revealed his real love for the South: “I love trees.”

In Student Art Interest
Several student artists at Davidson have recently made outstanding showings in exhibitions and contests in the area, indicating a possible rise in student interest in art. Three students, Daniel Goytia, Woody Coleman and Lou Hill, are taking advanced studies under Douglas Houchens and all three are now showing their work in an exhibition in Charlotte. These pictures, both drawings and paintings, range from still life, to modern or abstract art, to pop art. Hill is the only one who does any pop art and this has consisted mainly of making a large painting of a very small and seemingly insignificant comic strip frame. Hill says that he duplicates the scene exactly but the fact that it is so large makes it seem more important.

FINGER PAINTING? Daniel Goytia and Lou Hill appraise Woody Coleman’s work. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Four Davidson seniors have been awarded fellowships by the Wilson and Danforth Foundations for graduate study next year. Recipients of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowships are Phil Beidler, Wayne Mixon, George Williams and Stanley Kerr. Williams and Kerr also received Danforth Scholarships.

This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Foundation, which is the largest private source of support for advanced work in the liberal arts. Those awarded fellowships will receive tuition and fixed fees at the graduate school of their choice, plus $1,600 for living expenses.

Greek Week, the culmination of all pre-initiation activities for the pledges of Davidson’s 12 fraternities, has been set for April 4-8. David Westfall, IFC Greek Week Chairman, told THE DAVIDSONIAN, “There aren’t a large number of activities specifically scheduled by the IFC this year. We are trying to allow the fraternities to plan their own activities and get away from the traditional Hell Week.”

Greek Week will officially begin at noon, Monday, April 4. That night an informal banquet will be held on the grounds around Hodson Hall. Entertainment will be provided by a folk singing group composed of Doug Pratt, Paul Marion, Dave Fore and Henry Whitfield. After the banquet, William LeClere will address the pledges and pledge trainers. LeClere is executive secretary of Chi Psi fraternity and chairman of the Undergraduate Conference of the National Interfraternity Conference.

Friday afternoon a field day will be held at the Lake Campus. In conjunction with this, Sigma Phi Epsilon will hold its annual Pledge Class Regatta. The only important rule changes from last year are that pontoon boats will be disqualified and that the total value of the boats, not the cost, must be less than $10.

The IFC is initiating a new type of service project this year which will be supported by the combined pledge classes. This project is the cleaning and preparation of the Interfraternity Purchasing Cooperative Association storeroom, better known as the old bookstore at the rear of Chambers Auditorium.

This year, the IFC is not officially requiring a Greek Week service project for each fraternity. This will allow the individual fraternities more independence in planning their own Greek Week program without specific directions from the IFC, other than the rules and guidelines which have been stated previously. Judging for the Best Pledge Class award this year will be based partly on Greek Week activities.ac- tivity, but not as heavily as in the past. The award, to be given during the spring awards day, will be based on three things: pledge class scholastic average, field day and regatta, and per- centage of blood donated during the Red Cross blood drive in April. Greek Week will officially end at midnight, April 8.

4 Seniors Get Awards

The Danforth Fellowships, like the Woodrow Wilson grants, are designed to encourage outstand- ing college graduates who have selected college teaching as a career and to help meet the criti- cal national need for compe- tent and dedicated college in- structors.

Phi Gams To Stage Clothing Drive

A drive for old clothing and reparable articles to be donated to a South Vietnamese orphan- age is being sponsored by the pledges of Phi Gamma Delta. Heading up the committee in charge of the drive are Ham Fuller and Bob Apgar, who sug- gested the drive to the frater- nity after consulting with Capt. J. B. Crawley of the ROTC De- partment. The drive began March 17 with the Phi Gam pledges putting signs and mark- ed boxes in several Charlotte shopping centers.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Hub work being done at Davidson growing interest here. He stated “far more people” in the class this semester. Goytia is also full of ideas on the significance and nature of today’s painting. He says that Modern art can be character- ized by “freedom of expression and individuality.” He says that today an artist can paint any way he wants to but that he must always seek meaning in his work. “If he throws the paint like that,” gesturing with his hand, “and it means nothing to him, he scratches it out—but maybe if it is something different, then he will keep it.”

Over the Christmas holidays, Goytia entered a painting con- test sponsored in Charlotte and he recently learned that he took second place. Another of Goy- tia's works was chosen to be ex- hibited in Charlotte in a contest- type affair. College students in the area submitted 360 paintings but only 90 were selected to be exhibited. Goytia, a Richardson scholar from Buenos Aires, Argentina, is very enthusiastic about the work being done at Davidson and is quick to describe the growing interest here. He stated that there were only a few stu- dents in the beginner's class the first semester but that there are “far more people” in the class this semester.

Chorus And Ensemble Taking Annual Tours

The Male Chorus left yester- day to begin its 32nd consecutive concert tour. The Wind Ensemble will leave Sunday on a separate tour from the Male Chorus. The Ensemble will give 10 con- certs at various high schools and junior colleges throughout Flor- ida and South Carolina, playing everything from “Tijuana Taxi” to Tchaikovsky's “Symphony in F.”

During the next week the Cho- rus will journey as far west as Houston and as far south as Pen- sacola. Under the direction of Donald B. Plott, they will give both formal and sacred pro- grams at churches of varied de- nominations and at the Univer- sity of Chattanooga and at Em- ory. Most of the concerts have been arranged through alumni or friends of Davidson. The mem- bers of the Chorus will stay in individual homes provided by these friends and alumni.

The Chorus will sing selec- tions from such great compos- ers as Vittoria, Schubert, and Brahms. “The Lamplighters,” a special group within the Chorus, will sing show tunes, folk songs, and western ballads. David Rob- inson and Steve Bruce will do solos. The primary purpose of the tour is to gain publicity for the college, Plott said.

Jack Walker and Dan Crocker will be featured in Vivaldi’s “Concerto for Two Trumpets.” Dave Hoag will play the xylo- phone in an arrangement of “Hernando's Hideaway.” The Ensemble is under the di- rection of Dr. Grier M. Wil- liams.

One half-fare ID card is as good as another on Eastern

Provided there’s a seat available at departure time, you can fly off on your spring vacation to any of our 96 destinations within the continental U.S., including Florida. If you don’t have such a card, and you're 12 through 21, it’s a snap to get one from Eastern, as long as your parents don’t object. Fill in the blank below. Send the blank, a photocopy of your birth certificate or other proof of age, and a $3.00 check or money order (payable to Eastern Airlines) to Eastern Airlines, Dept. 350, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10020. Or take the same to any Eastern ticket office, and you can buy your half-fare ticket on the spot. We'll send you your ID card later.

Name of school
School address, if a resident.
Home address
Zip Code
Date of Birth
Enclosed is photocopy of: ( ) Birth Certificate ( ) Draft card ( ) Driver's License ( ) Other (Please Explain)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Holidays!

In Natural Shoulder circles, it’s Tate-Brown’s. For colorful, authentic Traditional styling in clothing, furnishings and new Spring sportswear! Use your charge account!

TATE-BROWN'S
CHARLOTTE
THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN—126 S. TRYON STREET
COTSWOLD — WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER