The Demise Of Summer

HALL COUNSELORS GET INCREASE IN SALARY (See Page Four)

VOL. LVI * 759

Grad Will Replace Chaplain Will Terry

A 1959 Davidson graduate and former football player has been named College Chaplain. The appointment of the Rev. R. Scott
Woodmansee was announced at Tuesday’s faculty meeting by President D. Grier Martin.

Woodmansee, a native of Little Rock, Ark., and graduate of Union Theological Seminary, is pastor of the Collierville, Tenn., Presbyterian
Church. He assumes his new position in the latter part of October. He succeeds the Rev. Will Terry, who resigned
last spring after four years to become pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Woodmansee’s appointment climaxes a search of
several months to fill the vacancy. According to Martin, college officials corresponded with “a number” of men and interviewed “three
or four” of them before choosing Woodmansee.

While at Davidson in the late 50s, Woodmansee won three letters in football and two more in track. He served
as vice-president of the Key Club and chairman of the Spiritual Life Committee of the YMCA cabinet. He majored in
psychology and was a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is married to the former Priscilla Ann Shelby of Charlotte,
a Queens graduate, and they have one child. They expect another child shortly.

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1966

DAVIDSONIAN Staff Will Meet

Freshman members of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff are requested to come to an instructional meeting Sunday night at 9 in the
office at the College Union. Anyone who has not yet joined the staff, but is interested, is welcome to attend.

COACH AND STAR

Coach Homer Smith (L) and cornerback Tommy Dews will lead the Wildcats against George Washington University tomorrow afternoon. (Staff Photo
by Olson)

Righteous Brothers Top Social Council Slate

Ian and Sylvia, the Righteous Brothers, Dionne Warwick, and the Four Seasons will headline two concert weekends and Homecoming during
the first semester. Sponsored by the Social Council, entertainment for concert weekends and the Homecoming weekend varies the program offered
by the College Union and its social committee. The Social Council has also scheduled combo parties and local entertainment which
will supplement the big-name groups.

Ian and Sylvia, who sing both modern and traditional folk music, will star on the first concert weekend Oct. 1.
Their concert will be preceded by a buffet supper and followed by a combo party featuring Casper and the Ghost
Riders. On the afternoon of the Ian and Sylvia concert, Davidson students and groups from area colleges will sing at
a hootenanny and folk music contest. Vince Foster, chairman of the Social Council, stated that a cash prize will be
awarded to the best folk or bluegrass group.

Homecoming, the biggest weekend of the semester, will offer the Righteous Brothers show and Dionne Warwick on the nights of
Oct. 28-29. For the first night’s entertainment, Foster explained that “this is not just the Righteous Brothers. They will be
bringing their own band and a three-act show.” A combo party with the Manhattans and later a breakfast in the
Union will follow the show. Dionne Warwick will appear in a concert Saturday night. Following her concert, there will be
a combo party featuring the Entertainers.

For the Righteous Brothers show, an admission fee will be charged. The yearly $30 social fee that each student pays
is inadequate to cover the cost of top recording stars such as the Righteous Brothers. Tickets for the concerts will
be sold to Davidson students “at a reduced price,” Foster said. When asked whether the Social Council planned to charge
admission to any other concerts during the year, Foster said, “It depends on how well this goes off. If we
lose a lot of money on the Righteous Brothers show, we'll probably have to charge admission to a concert next
semester.”

The Four Seasons will sing at the second concert weekend, November 19. A combo party will follow the concert.

Hike Blamed On Plants

College Business Manager R. A. Currie this week blamed a highly competitive labor market for an increase in students’ laundry
fees and a decrease in dormitory janitorial services. Currie said these two changes came about as a result of rapid
industrial growth in the area which has forced the college to revamp its wage structure for non-academic employees. “The industries
around here were paying their employees more money and requiring them to work fewer hours than we were,” Currie said.
“Naturally there was a real danger that we would lose some of our employees to them." Faced with this competition,
Currie said, the college began work last fall on a formal wage-salary

Three, Maybe Four, By ROBBIE HOOKER News Editor

Three basketball players with “other, more important activities” have dropped off Coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell’s inexperienced and already-thin varsity. Bobby
Lane, Cecil Clifton, and Sam Hatcher—all juniors—this week made official their intentions of quitting the squad, which begins practice Oct.
15. Another junior, George Leight, declined comment on rumors that he, too, will quit. Responded Driesell: “We certainly won't close
up the basketball program.”

Lane, from New Orleans, La., was the only starter in the group last season, averaging slightly over 10 points a
game. Hatcher, from Columbus, Ga., and Clifton, of Avondale Estates, Ga., were reserves. Both Lane and Clifton will forfeit full
scholarships. Hatcher did not hold a basketball scholarship, and neither does Leight.

Driesell dismissed as a “normal turnover” the loss of the three, which diminishes the ranks of his defending Southern Conference
champions to 12, including the doubtful Leight. He said that a turnover in personnel is to be expected each year
and noted that last year's squad lost four potential players, too. “I’m confident we'll be able to fill these guys’
places,” he said. With Leight’s status uncertain, Driesell is left with only two definite holdovers from last year, juniors Rodney
Knowles andProgram for non-academic employees. This program involved job analyses, job evaluation, and job pricing, and included three different employment
classifications: maintenance and custodial, laundry, and office and clerical. The program resulted in an overall salary increase for non-academic employees
and a reduction in the work week from 45 to 40 hours. Coupled with these changes, Currie said, has been
the necessity in recent years of increasing the college's maintenance and custodial staff in order to cover the needs of
an expanding physical plant and to provide for the increasing demands of the instructional program.

“Our budget wouldn't allow us to pay an expanding non-academic staff according to the new wage scale. Therefore, in order
to keep tuition and fee increases at a minimum during this period of increased labor cost, we have tried to
eliminate any services that appear non-essential. One of these appeared to be janitors making beds in the dormitories. Consequently, we
laid off some of the dormitory janitors.” Some fee increases, however, appeared to be necessary, he said, such as the
laundry fee increase from $12.50 to $50 per semester. Currie said that the tight labor market caused the cost of
laundry operation to increase out of proportion to laundry prices. The college considered (See Fees, Page Four).

Tom Youngdale. The only other player with any Davidson varsity experience is Scott Sinnock, who did not play last year.
Seven sophomores and a junior college transfer round out the depleted squad. “Lane had a good opportunity to start this
year,” said Driesell. “Naturally I'm disappointed. Maybe he will change his mind. I don't care—that’s up to him. He had
a lot of talent, but we've got a lot of boys who are eager to take his place.” In a
brief, prepared statement, Lane said: “I appreciate the experience I have had in the years I have played basketball. However,
there are other activities to which I want to devote more of my time and energy which would be impossible
to do if I continue playing basketball.” He did not elaborate. Clifton said, “I don’t enjoy (See Players, Page Four).

Curriculum Committee Adds 4 New Members

BOBBY LANE

Sixteen Newcomers Join College Family

Nine new teachers and seven new staff members have been added to the faculty and administration for the 1966-67 academic
year, according to Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty. George E. Core and L. P. Percy join the
English department. The ROTC department has added Capt. Donald A. Johns and Maj. R. H. Schuessler. P. C. Fisher joins
the German department as an instructor. J. P. Traywick is a new instructor in classical languages. H. D. Woodfin joins
the History department. R. H. Williams will be an instructor of art. Returning from sabbatical leaves are T. F. Clark
in the Bible and religion department and C. E. Ratliff in the economics department. W. E. Meeks and J. S.
Winkler return from the Junior Year Abroad in France and Germany respectively. Robert Brown joins the football coaching staff as
assistant coach and John Kilgo fills the newly created post of Director of Sports Publicity. Jim Terry, former Davidson football
player, replaces Tom Covington, who left his office as assistant dean of students to become assistant director of the College
Union. Jon W. Regen joins the Office of Admissions as assistant. Russell A. Strong is the new Director of Public
Information. Miss Mary Sewell Helvey is assistant cataloguer for the library and John A. Ouzts III is the new assistant
director in the Alumni office.

Freshman Potential Acclaimed

Two hundred and sixty-five new Davidson gentlemen, full of potential and glowing with energy, have now taken their place on
the campus as the Class of 1970. They have completed their orientation period and settled down into the daily routine
of classes. The hall counselors were able to run the orientation program much more smoothly this year after one year
of experience with this system. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr., who called the class “a great group of
boys,” said the class was well characterized by “their firm handshakes and their friendly manner.” He cited the lack of
interference with the orientation program by returning upperclassmen as a helpful factor. He also mentioned that hall unity, a very
important part of this class, was exhibited especially in the boys’ enthusiasm about the freshman intramural program. Explaining the low
number of freshmen, Dean Burts said that there are more returning upperclassmen than usual. On the negative side, Freshman Advisor
Bill Rikard mentioned that perhaps the orientation was a little too long this year. There are possible plans to combine
it with the “Y” camp next year. “Freshmen have been ready to go to class since Sunday morning,” he observed,
“and many were killing time in the pool hall waiting for the next meeting.”

Work Pace Lags

President D. Grier Martin announced the appointment of the final four members of a curriculum revision committee at a faculty
meeting this week. The four are Professors Joe Embry (French), Charles Ratliff (economics), Earl MacCormac (philosophy) and James G. Martin
(chemistry). Four other members of the faculty, Professors Locke White (physics), Frank Bliss (English), Max Polley (Bible and religion), and
Jay Ostwalt (psychology and education) were elected to committee membership after the curriculum study was proposed by Dr. Frontis W.
Johnston, dean of the faculty, early in April.

MAJOR OVERHAUL

The committee of eight members, plus Johnston, who will serve as chairman, plans to study the present curriculum and recommend
changes in what Dr. John Kelton, professor of psychology, has predicted will be a “major overhaul of the curriculum.” The
committee “has not even met yet,” according to Johnston, but “explorations have begun.” “As a committee, it will get under
way this fall,” he concluded. Johnston's original proposal grew out of the college's self-study report which was published last year
and the subsequent visit by representatives of the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities. When he presented the proposal, Johnston
said that all areas of the curriculum will be subject to study and possible revision.

CHECK REQUIREMENTS

He mentioned that major-minor requirements and graduation requirements in general will be examined with particular care. The committee will begin
work this fall and work throughout the academic year. Any changes will not go into effect before the fall of
1967, according to Johnston. The result will be that while a change in major-minor requirements could affect both the present
freshman and sophomore classes, any change in graduation requirements could affect only the freshmen.
