GILES SPLITS U (Photo Courtesy of The State and Columbia Record) PRIGHTS AT PC Wearies Toe As He Kicks Seven
PAT’s In 49-13 Romp

‘Cats Chill PC Festivities As Poole, Taylor Sparkle

The Wildcats evened their season record at 2-2 with a 49-13 victory over Presbyterian. By the end of the first
half, the ’Cat blitz had destroyed the PC Homecoming spirit that singer Barbara Lewis had built up the night before.

TOM COOK SPORTS EDITOR

DEAR SPORTS ILLUSTRATED:

You did it again last week. Once again the infamous Sports Illustrated jinx, which strikes terror in the hearts of
coaches and sports information directors alike, struck. This time it was Joe Willie Namath, “the biggest thing in New York
since Babe Ruth,” to quote Billy Sullivan, owner of the Boston Patriots. Before we examine the disaster wrought last Sunday
at Houston, let us examine the highlights of the SI jinx, which reads like the path of a tornado.

Just about this time in 1964, the St. Louis Cardinals of the NFL were sailing along on the arm of
quarterback Charlie Johnson and faced a tough game with the Cleveland Browns, a game which would go a long way
toward determining the Eastern Division champ. Well, you ran a nice story telling everyone how good the Cardinals were and
how they ought to win the division crown without working up a sweat. What happened? The Cardinals lost to the
Browns. Then they lost again. And again and again and again. In fact, St. Louis lost so many games after
you put the jinx on them that they barely finished at the .500 mark.

You say that is just an isolated case. My next piece of incriminating evidence concerns a small Presbyterian college for
men which had a pretty good basketball team. But they weren’t so good to rate being ranked number one in
the nation. Why, their own coach, who was always pessimistic, went a step further, guessing they might not win but
five games. But you really thought this school was the living end.

It was almost the living end for Davidson College when Sports Illustrated listed them as number one in the nation.
The students were dumbfounded, Lefty scoffed at it and SI became number one on the hit parade at Davidson. Nevertheless,
the jinx was at work. We had already beaten Wake Forest, but just two days after that infamous prediction appeared
at the Hub, Davidson was mauled by St. Joseph’s. We were killed. The Sports Illustrated kiss-of-death had struck again without
mercy.

There are more recent incidents which lowered your subscription total each time. How about that cover picture of the Astros’
Joe Morgan and Sonny Jackson? The Astros were in third place that week. Next week they were on their way
back to Metsville—the cellar.

Your latest application of the jinx was unforgivable, except in Texas. The Jets had already bombed the Oilers in New
York a few weeks ago and they were favorites to do so again—until Thursday when SI came out. The jinx!
Could it happen to a red-blooded American boy like Joe Willie? It could. New York was murdered. Namath threw four
interceptions and ancient George Blanda acted like he had found the fountain of youth.

Which brings us to the main point of our letter. Basketball is coming up soon. We know how you like
the ivy walls of our institution. We could have a very good team. Lefty is being a good guy this
year. He spoke to a group of freshmen the other night and not just to find a manager or a
cameraman. The situation is ripe for you to pick us high in your preseason polls. PLEASE DON'T PICK ON US
AGAIN THIS YEAR!

Would you believe we finally won a Southern Conference tournament? We made a lot of progress last year just being
‘The Best of the Rest.” We may have a better basketball team this year. We finally have a shooting guard
and slick Rod will again terrorize teams with his blinding moves. It would be nice to be mentioned favorably in
your basketball issue. We would appreciate that. Johnny Kilgo would get paid. Somebody might show up for the Wake Forest
game this year. But don’t go overboard. Pick UCLA and a lot of other good teams ahead of us and
then mention us. It’s not that we are ingrates, we just don’t want to get jinxed again this year.

IMAC ON RISE

One of the brighter spots of this fall at Davidson has been the emergence of the Intramural Athletic Council into
something more than just a Monday night meeting and a picture in the annual. Some of this improvement can be
attributed to the Athletic Department and new Intramural Director Sterling Martin. For the first time in countless years, there has
been someone in the Athletic Department interested in intramurals. But the main cause of the effectiveness of the IMAC is
the hard work put forth by its president, Jack Sherrill. Simple little things like renumbering the fields in some semblance
of order, furnishing THE DAVIDSONIAN with standings, leaving the schedule on a basis flexible enough to work around the weather
and announcing tournaments for the minor sports well in advance to promote at least a little effort to get in
shape for wrestling by someone besides the Phi Delts have made this year’s intramural program potentially the best in many
years.

“They were really fired up for the game,” said quarterback Jimmy Poole, “and they wanted to beat us as much
as anybody.” However, Poole’s consistent passing and Billy Taylor's powerful running proved too much for the Blue Hose. “Poole’s accurate
passing and good blocking by the interior linemen enabled us to establish a good running game," Coach Homer Smith said.
“Several different pass formations were successful in loosening up the PC defense.”

“We concentrated on option plans in the first quarter,” Smith said, “and then passes in the second and inside runs
for the remainder of the game.” “A flood pass to the right side worked well,” Poole said, “because they could
never cover the tight end. We knew the pass would work after the first few plays but that we wanted
to establish a good running game after we scored the first three touchdowns.”

“After we built up a secure lead,” Smith said, “we definitely called the plays with the score in mind. Mounting
scores have no place in college football and the only reason Poole went back to call signals late in the
game was because Billy Webb was injured and Billy Taylor had to play fullback.”

Smith praised the defensive line which he said “gave up few first downs after the first quarter.” However, he noted
that “the team let up late in the game and you should never do that.” But he added, “I was
pleased with the way things fell into place and the boys played the same as in the past three games
even though the competition was different.”

Freshmen Set Challenge

It may be a fact that 40 percent of the Freshman Class failed the Athletic Proficiency Test, but the derogatory
and downright nasty accusations that have been made by you about the Class of ‘70 have been uncalled for. Therefore,
to prove our superior athletic ability, we challenge the sophisticated Sophomore Class to an afternoon of athletic competition on Thursday,
Oct. 27, 1966. If the stupendous sophomores (Ha! Ha!) feel that they are qualified to accept this challenge, they are
requested to appoint three class representatives to officiate along with three representatives of the Freshman Class. The fields of competition
will include a basketball game, a swimming meet, a cross-country race, a volleyball game and a tug-of-war.

We shall expect to see you on Oct. 27.

The Class of ‘70

By DON SEWELL Sports Writer

Richmond’s hapless Spiders host Homer’s Henchmen tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. in a Southern Conference contest. Richmond, waist deep in a
losing season, has dropped its first five games, while the ‘Cats will be trying to extend the win streak they
started last week with their victory over Presbyterian. Playing under a new head coach, the Spiders have not yet been
able to stop the losing skid that ran a season last year and has reached through half of this year’s
schedule.

Coach Frank Jones, who got the head coaching job this year, came from Mississippi State where he was assistant coach.
Richmond's publicity director, Walt Drewry, said, “Coach Jones regards Davidson as the most underrated team in the Southern Conference. We
have great respect for Jimmy Poole and Coach Homer Smith’s whole offensive team. We realize that we will be the
underdogs this week.”

The Wildcats have their own problems this week. Injuries will necessitate several changes for this week's game at Richmond, Smith
said. Kerry Keith probably will not play and center Walter Greene will be moved to the defensive unit for part-time
duty. “Everyone who is able has to play,” Smith said. “Saturday's game was a critical experience for me because we
had to call time outs just to get 11 people on the field. Never before have I had a football
experience mean more than this one did.” The front four for Davidson tomorrow will be all sophomores—Jeff Pflugner and Sandy
Brenneman at defensive end; and Hank Strickland and Johnny Slaughter at tackle.With fullback Kerry Keith sidelined with an injury from
the PC game last week, Billy Taylor will fill in at fullback, while Johnny Walker will replace Taylor at tailback.
End Greg Cox will shift to the wing position. Smith made it clear that he is not expecting an easy
game at Richmond. “They’re improving each time they play this season,” he said. “They have a much better coach this
year and they expect some better football before their schedule is over.”

The ‘Cats have spent the week preparing their modified offense so that the rearranged backfield will be working smoothly for
Saturday. Bad weather, however, has hampered Spider drills. “Our preparatory practices this week have been hampered by rain,” Drewry said,
“but we hope that everyone will be strong. Our big trouble has been a great lack of depth. We need
a win really badly and we'll be working.” Smith stressed that Davidson will be working hard to win. His squad,
spirited after their big victory last week over PC, stands to tighten the conference race with a victory over the
Spiders. Richmond's record includes losses at the hands of such strong teams as Dayton, The Citadel, Mississippi State, VMI, and
West Texas State.

By GEORGE ROBINSON
Sports Writer

A deciding factor in last week’s 49-13 rout of Presbyterian College by the Wildcats was the outstanding play of junior
tailback Billy Taylor. An all-around backfield man, Taylor scored three touchdowns and gained 78 yards. He also quarterbacked a short
time in the final quarter. Coach Homer Smith said, “Billy was magnificent. He has never scrimmaged at fullback, but he
played with real poise. He executed his plays flawlessly.”

Playing his high school football in Kinston, Taylor quarterbacked the varsity for four years. During his senior year, the team,
ranked first in the state for a time, tied for the Northeast Group 3-A conference title. For his outstanding performance,
Taylor earned All-Conference and All-East honors during his junior and senior years. He was named to the All-State team his
senior year. Although he participated in track in high school, he stuck with football because he “always performed better in
it than in other sports.”

Taylor sparked the team against Presbyterian, competing at his best in the third quarter on inside running. “The fullback off-tackle
play was my best ground gainer. We moved the ball real well. They weren't stopping anything we ran,” he said.
John Kilgo, sports information director, said, “Billy is most effective on fullback runs straight into the line. He kicks, squirms,
and jumps for those extra yards.” Taylor's longest run of the day was an 18-yard gain. A 33-yard ramble was
called back because of a penalty.

In the East Carolina game, Taylor, playing at tailback, broke Pete Glidewell’s pass-receiving record by snagging 10 passes, mostly on
swing patterns. Taylor moved from his tailback position to fullback because Kerry Keith sustained a pulled muscle. He is also
slated to start at fullback against Richmond tomorrow night in Richmond. Describing Taylor's play against Presbyterian, Smith said, “This is
the kind of performance we will need to have a good season. More boys will be called upon to play
positions somewhat new to them, and I only hope that they do as well as Billy did.”

Looking back on the game, Taylor jokingly said, “I was glad we won because I had heard that we might
have to practice when we got back if we lost. I also wanted to get back to see my girlfriend.”
Viewing the remainder of the schedule, Taylor said, “I hope we won't lose another game. I think we are better
than anybody else we play. We have improved tremendously this year. Our offense is much stronger this season, and Jimmy
Poole is doing a great job.”

St. Clair Paces Whittlemen

Barry St. Clair, Davidson's cross-country captain, led the thinclads to a whopping 19-43 win over St. Andrews Wednesday on the
Davidson course. St. Clair broke his own four-mile course record of 21:59 with a time of 21:54. In spite of
the cool, damp air, the Davidson team made an outstanding showing. Besides St. Clair’s first, Mike Moats, Randy Phillips, Jim
Wall, Bill Hearn, and Fred Lowrance went on to take the third through seventh positions. Only a second by Joe
Smith of St. Andrews broke up the Davidson combination.

The Harriers turned in another strong showing against the Furman thinclads at Greenville, S.C. last Friday. Furman, 12th in the
nation last year, defeated the ‘Cats 22-33. Coach Heath Whittle commented, “This was a real good showing against such a
strong team. They had three boys back from their last year's conference champions.” Horace Poole and Jack Daniels of Furman
came in first and second while St. Clair, Moats, and Phillips placed third, fifth, and sixth over the four-mile course.
Davidson's harriers next meet VMI and East Carolina in a triangular meet at Lexington, Va. Wednesday.

The frosh thinclads ran their record to 5-1 with a close 28-29 win over Myers Park Tuesday. John Puckett of
Davidson, in a meet that was held in a cold rain, finished first with a time of 10:17 for the
two-mile Davidson course. Gerald Forrester and Willie Wilson of Myers Park took second and third. Dan Herd, Allan Pusey, and
James Puckett of Davidson came in fifth, sixth, and seventh. The freshmen also scored a 26-33 win over the Furman
frosh last Friday. The whole team put in a strong performance for the victory. They were led by John Puckett,
who placed first. The junior harriers next took on Brevard at Brevard yesterday, one of the strongest teams they will
meet this year, Whittle said. They will also accompany the varsity to Lexington to compete against the VMI and ECC
frosh.

Kittens Display Improvement

By JOHN HUGGINS
Sports Writer

Elaborating on the Wildkittens’ 17-7 victory over Carolina Military Academy last Saturday, Assistant Coach Dick Short said, “We added some
variations to the defense and worked hard on our offensive running attack. Apparently, it paid off.” “The pass defense did
a good job in the second half,” Short said. “Lynn Himes, Mike Culbreth, and David Branch helped by putting a
good rush on the passer. The pass blocking was so good that they got to our passer only once in
the 20 times we attempted to pass.”

The Cadets, playing before their homecoming crowd, received the opening kickoff but were held by the ‘Kittens’ defense. CMA then
punted to the Davidson 28. The Wildkitten offense took over and muscled its way 72 yards down the field to
give Davidson a 7-0 lead. After the Wildkittens’ first touchdown, both defensive units held firm until the Cadets’ passing attack
began to click late in the second quarter. They got to the Davidson 21 by connecting on a series of
short passes and scored on a long pass deep into the end zone.

After intercepting a Davidson pass, the Cadets were again on the move. Short passes, a penalty, and a bomb put
CMA on the Davidson one-yard line. But the hard-hitting Wildkitten defense knocked the ball loose on the next play and
Allen Hawkins pounced on it to halt the Cadets’ threat seconds before the end of the first half.

In the third quarter, the offenses were stalled while Davidson gained some field position by Terry Esterkamp’s booming punts. Davidson's
only threat was a long Hampton-to-Hannen pass called back by a holding penalty. Whit Morrow intercepted a CMA pass at
the end of the third quarter. In Davidson's ensuing drive, John Zaharov's tackle-bursting 15-yard run set up Ed Terry's field
goal from the CMA 20-yard line, which put Davidson ahead, 10-7.

Later in the fourth quarter, Davidson’s defense forced CMA to punt from their end zone. Esterkamp and Neal Dettmering partially
blocked the punt. Four plays afterwards, in a fourth-and-seven situation, Himes made a catch between two defenders to get the
first down. The next play Hampton hit Hannen with a 26-yard scoring pass. Terry's PAT made it Davidson by 17-7.
With time running out, Esterkamp intercepted a CMA pass and the Wildkittens ran out the clock.

Short said of the Wildkittens’ Oct. 28 game, “N.C. State has a really tough team with good personnel. It ranks
with Duke's. We have improved a great deal and I am sure our best effort can win the game.” There
were many outstanding performances by Wildkitten players last Saturday. Mike Kelly caught four passes for 32 yards. Hannen had four
for 61 yards. Hampton did most of the passing and ran for 48 yards on nine carries. Zaharov gained a
whopping 132 yards in 25 tries.

HOMECOMING

This is the weekend of all weekends to look your best. We specialize in good dry-cleaning and neatly laundered shirts.

JACKSON THE ANCHOR CLEANERS
ACROSS FROM GULF STATION

BILLY TAYLOR

SPECIAL! 15¢ OFF ON A Chicken Dinner with COUPON

It's Fun to Eat at tastee-freez
Mooresville

SPECIAL-15¢ OFF on a Chicken Dinner
THIS COUPON EXPIRES Oct. 27
One coupon good for a Davidson student and date.
