VOL. LV S

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 20, 1966

DAVIDSON STUDENTS MARCH ON WASHINGTON (See Page Two)

NUMBER THIRTY-ONE

16 Students Honored At Faculty Banquet

Sixteen Davidson students received awards last night at a faculty banquet honoring Professors Lewis B. Schenck, W. N. Mebane, and
E. A. Beaty, faculty members retiring after this year.

The David Halbert Howard Jr. Memorial Chemistry Scholarship was awarded to Chip Robertson, a junior from Richmond, Va. The $300
scholarship is presented annually to the student who shows a large degree of usefulness in some field of service related
to chemistry.

Junior Barry St. Clair of Princeton, W. Va., was the recipient of the Agnes Santelle Brow Scholarship. This grant is
made to a student who shows outstanding promise.

The A. K. Phifer Scholarship for a distinguished record in the study of economics went to James H. Rostan. Rostan,
a junior from Valdese, will receive a $450 stipend.

STOWE SCHOLARSHIP

Joe Gaddy was named to receive the C. T. Stowe Memorial Scholarship. The $450 annual award is made to an
athlete with better than average scholastic ability. Gaddy is a junior from Winston-Salem.

The George L. Gladstone Jr. Memorial Award, presented on the basis of high potential for future service, was awarded to
Bob Vance. Vance is a junior and a resident of Pineola.

Pack Hindsley, an All-Southern Conference football player from Beckley, W. Va., was presented the Tommy Peters Memorial Trophy. The award
is presented to the athlete who best exemplifies the Davidson spirit while participating in intercollegiate competition.

Drama Awards were made to Don Davis and Howard Bryan. Davis is a senior from Waynesville. Bryan, also a senior,
is from Cove City.

The Wall Street Journal Award went to senior L. J. Zoutewelle of Charlotte.

Harry McMullen, a sophomore from Washington, N. C., was the recipient of the ROTC Military History Award.

FRENCH AWARDS

Five awards were made to outstanding French students by the French government through the French Embassy in Washington, D. C.
Co-winners were selected for the most progress in French. E. M. Wilkinson, a senior from Sharon, S. C., and Jim
McLaughlin, a sophomore from Charlotte, were the recipients.

Michael Garvey, a freshman from Washington, D. C., was recognized for outstanding performance in the conversation and the composition of
the French language.

The award for outstanding performance in advanced literature was made to Hamp Morris, a junior from Geneva, Ala.

Senior John Webb was honored for the greatest contribution to French outside the classroom. Webb is from Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

The senior award to a French major went to Tom Peaden of Jacksonville, Fla.

Chaplain Terry To Give Baccalaureate Sermon

College Chaplain Will Terry will give the Baccalaureate Sermon for graduating seniors this year. After seniors complete the exams for
their traditional 12-hour second semester burden, graduation activities will occupy their time for the weekend of June 4-5.

Formal commencement exercises are scheduled to begin at 3:45 p.m. on Sunday as seniors march in for the academic procession
followed by the exercises that begin at 4 p.m.

College Chaplain Will Terry will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon at 11 a.m. A luncheon at 1 p.m. for seniors and
their parents will follow the service.

Saturday activities will include the commissioning of ROTC graduates in ceremonies at 4 p.m. At 5 p.m. the Davidson College
Male Chorus will perform a concert, which will be repeated at 8 p.m. A reception for seniors, parents, and friends
will be held at 9 p.m.

SELAM

With this edition, the 1965-66 DAVIDSONIAN concludes publication for the year. Publication will resume in the fall with the first
issue of the 1966-67 DAVIDSONIAN tentatively scheduled for Sept. 16.

Of Acceptance Replies

“The percentage of accepted applicants who have decided to come to Davidson," according to Admissions Director H. Edmunds White, “is
the lowest in three or four years.” As of May 17, 258 boys have acknowledged their acceptance, some of these
coming from the waiting list.

White noted, however, that this decrease seems to be the same in other schools comparable to Davidson. One reason is
the rising cost of private colleges; Davidson's tuition increased $100 this year.

Another possible cause of the decrease this year, White continued, is the new acceptance system with only two acceptance dates,
the early decision one in November and the regular one on April 14. Under the old system with four acceptance
dates, the admissions office often had to accept some boys without having access to their completed folders. The present system
has prevented this, but White feels that some boys not accepted until the later date may have chosen other schools
at which they were already accepted.

The most important factor exerted in a wider geographical area. The list of applicants from outside Davidson's geographical region is
larger than any previous year. White explained that as Davidson's national reputation increases, so do outside applications.

White commented that 100 of the 400 acceptances mailed April 14 were for applicants outside the Southeastern states. In the
Midwest, boys from Colorado, Nebraska, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, and six from Texas have acknowledged their acceptances. Nine boys will be
coming next year from Ohio, Illinois, and Indiana. So far there are 18 from New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania,
and seven from the states of Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire.

Who's Nothing Taps Noted Non-Achievers

As the end of the year approaches, it is time for the observance of one of the traditions of Davidson—the
Who's Nothing tapping. Unlike the members of other honoraries, Who's Nothing’s members are not noted for their honors and achievements,
nor for their dishonors. They simply haven't done anything.

This year's tapping is a fitting one. The co-presidents, George Brewer and Robert Lake, so voted because no one wanted
full responsibility, called a meeting several weeks ago. Of course, no one attended. Then, they forgot to set a chapel
date for the tapping.

Present members are Charlie Goodykoontz, next year's president, Warren Reed, Phil Hightower, and Tommy Hunter.

The new members include Walt Drake, ATO; Sam Cathey, Beta; Johnny Clark, Pika; Gene Shepherd, Pi Kapp; Edgar McFarland, Sigma
Nu, and Mike Smith, Sig Ep.

The KA's represented are Jim Houser, John Reynolds, Jack Kimble, and Henry Temple. Members from Kappa Sig are Hose Taylor,
Buddy Finch, Johnny Walker, David Brown, Pete Ort, Dan Hearon, Dick Snyder, and Dennis Nicholson.

Phi Delt members are Stu Perry and Hoyle Rymer. Charlie Lloyd, Mike Cummings, and George Piper represent Phi Gam. Sigma
Chi members include Ronnie Stone and Rocky Walker, John Barnhardt, Bill Alexander, Champ Covington, Paul Brown, Chet Davidson, Woody Efird,
and Daniel Goytia will be the members from SAE.

The Independents tapped were Richard Hodgin and Bill Norfleet. Faculty and administration members are Cop Linker and ‘Count’ Stacks.

Possible Big Name Entertainment Next Year

Davidson may get a taste of big name entertainment next year if students are willing to pay an admission fee
at Social Council functions.

Social Council Chairman Vince Foster and past Council Chairman Dan Campbell both agreed that an admission fee of one dollar
a head would enable the Social Council to hire big name talents such as The Supremes.

Foster pointed out that the Social Council receives about $20,000 to finance its activities. The remainder of the $30,000 social
fund is presented to the Union. Thus the Social Council can pay about $3,500 from its own pocket for each
of the six big weekends on campus.

If students pay the one dollar per person admission fee, the Council would be able to obtain entertainment desired by
the student body as shown by a recent popularity poll.

Foster was very pleased with the performance of the Social Council and its activities this semester, as was Campbell. Foster
was especially happy with The Bitter End Singers; he said that “even though the group didn't have a big name,
the Council knew they were good.”

Foster foresees an improvement in Social Council entertainment next year because of the popularity poll. Such an improvement, said Foster,
is “the goal of the Social Council.”

COMMENCEMENT SCHEDULE

SATURDAY, JUNE 4

4:00 p.m.—Commissioning of R.O.T.C. Graduates.
*5:00 p.m.—Concert: Davidson College Male Chorus.
9:00 p.m.—Reception for Seniors, Parents, and Friends.
*The concert will be repeated at 8:00 p.m.

SUNDAY, JUNE 5

11:00 a.m.—Baccalaureate Sermon.
1:00 p.m.—Luncheon for Parents and Seniors.
3:00 p.m.—Academic Procession.
4:00 p.m.—Commencement Exercises.Davidson College Male Chorus will present a concert. This program will be repeated at 8 p.m. A reception
for the seniors, their parents, and friends will be held at 9 p.m. Dr. John R. Cunningham, president emeritus of
Davidson, was scheduled to give the Baccalaureate Sermon, but Terry agreed to substitute for him when Cunningham suffered a heart
attack last week. He is now in satisfactory condition at Memorial Hospital. Mrs. Harmon Gillespie, assistant supervisor of dormitories, said
that the school will provide accommodations for parents and friends in Belk Dormitory at no cost as long as spaces
last. Seniors can reserve the spaces by coming by Mrs. Peter Nicholls’ office and requesting the rooms. Mrs. Gillespie warned,
however, that places are going fast. “We're already putting people on the third floor. The fourth floor is reserved for
the use of the Male Chorus. Of course, we do expect to have some cancellations.”

PRAM To Receive Grant Of $10,000

PRAM has received a $10,000 grant from the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation, THE DAVIDSONIAN learned today. The grant was made
during the first of the week, but official confirmation from the Winston-Salem-based foundation will not be forthcoming until next week.
In addition to the $10,000, the gift will pay the way for a $2,000 grant from the Richardson Foundation. PRAM
had been promised the Richardson grant on a challenge basis, contingent on the organization raising $8,000 from other sources. “This
pretty well puts us on top of things,” one PRAM official told THE DAVIDSONIAN. He explained that the grant would
give the organization a total of $16,850 in their drive to reach $20,000 for this year's activities. “In addition,” he
said, “we still have chances with several other foundations.” The expanded program will be sending 14 United States students to
South America for the summer. There will be eight Ecuadorian students touring the Eastern United States from August to October.

Freshman Camp Set For September 6-8

Freshman Camp will be held Sept. 6-8 at Camp Thunderbird, York, S.C. As last year, the camp will provide facilities
to house all incoming freshmen. In discussing the YMCA-sponsored camp, Don Carroll, in charge of next year's camp, says, “We
are not using a central theme because we wish to hit some major areas of campus life not so closely
related. Interest areas will be threefold—ethical and religious, practical and personal.” The main speaker will be Harry Smith, campus pastor
of the Chapel Hill Presbyterian Church, who will discuss the moral and religious questions that the freshman faces on the
college campus. His talk will highlight the philosophical segment of the program. The second area of interest will deal with
the practical side of college life. Such topics as how to study will be discussed. During this phase, the incoming
freshmen will have the opportunity to talk with different professors. The personal aspect of activities will provide time for the
boys to get to know different members of their class in a congenial atmosphere of recreation and fellowship. In addition,
there will be a program on the challenge Davidson faces. Bobby Lane will serve as program chairman for this year's
camp. The counselors will represent every phase of activity on the campus. They include the presidents of the student body,
the YMCA, and the College Union. Additional counselors will be the chairman and vice-chairman of the Honor Court, the vice-president
of the College Union, and the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

OUTLAW PINS SPRINKLE

Col. Frederic B. Outlaw presented the Command Leadership Award to David Sprinkle on ROTC Drill held Tuesday. Other awards which
were presented at that time were: the Dept. of the Army Superior Cadet Award to MS-I M. L. Cannon, MS-II
Dave Purnell, and MS-IV Jerry Blackstock; the Third U.S. Army Certificate to Jim Stokes; the Reserve Officer Association Award to
Jerry Blackstock; W. J. Martin, III, Medal to George McNab; the H. E. Fulcher Medal to Pack Hindsley; the American
Legion Medal to Chuck Mendenhall; the Sons of the Revolution Medals to Julian Prosser (Band) and Jim Furr (Honor Guard);
the Best Company Award to A Company (first semester) and E Company (second semester); the Military Excellence Award to MS-IV
Jim Fain; the Scholastic Excellence Award to MS-III Charles Taylor; the Meritorious Achievement Award to Jim Stokes and the Daniel
B. Woods Medal to Dick Lindsey.

Questionnaire Praises Humanities Program

One hundred and fifty juniors and seniors were given the chance to evaluate Davidson's two-year Humanities Program three weeks ago.
This week Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, chairman of the first-year program, released the objective results and a few tentative interpretations.
Only 50 of the students returned the six-page questionnaire. “Needless to say, the Humanities faculty was somewhat disappointed,” commented Rhodes.
“The evaluation would have been much more helpful with a higher percentage.” Every student at Davidson who has completed the
two-year program was mailed a copy of the questionnaire.

WOULD REPEAT

A full 70 percent of the students indicated that if they had it to do over, they would take Humanities
again. Ninety percent also said that they had recommended the program to other students. Forty of the 50 considered the
“carry-over value of this program for other courses” to be good or excellent, and forty-two said the course quickened their
intellectual curiosity. The students were equally divided over whether the first-year average daily assignment was reasonable or excessive, but an
overwhelming majority considered the second-year average assignment to be reasonable. For both the first and second-year programs, a large majority
thought the amount of required writing was reasonable. About 70 percent considered the balance between lectures and discussions for both
years satisfactory. Sixty-five percent voted in favor of changing professors for discussion groups only at the end of the semester.
Professors in the first-year program, with one exception, are presently changed at mid-semester. Also, sixty percent favored regrouping students in
discussion groups during the year. Presently this is not done in the freshman program. Several students indicated their desire to
add some study of music to the course.

MOST VALUABLE

Concerning the element which they considered most valuable, the students ranked “quality and breadth of reading material” first and “acquaintance
with a variety of professors” last. The students indicated that following the second-year program, they generally did have a sense
of the meaning and unity of Western civilization, and an appreciation for this cultural heritage. Several students mentioned a more
favorable reaction to the study of more recent events and books, especially because of their first-year background. Rhodes observed, “Some
students wanted more instruction on how to write; some wanted more creative writing; and some wanted book reports. Overall, the
students seemed to feel that they had gained a sense of the integration of knowledge, going beyond disciplinary barriers. Students
felt that on the whole they had become better acquainted with good reading and broad reading, and that they had
read some things which they would not have read otherwise.”

ANSWERS HELPED

Rhodes emphasized strongly, “We of the Humanities staff wish to express our genuine appreciation to those students who took the
time and trouble to fill out the questionnaires and turn them in. We especially appreciate how thoughtful, honest, and constructive
the comments were. In the long run, we feel that the personal comments of these students may possibly prove more
valuable than the objective answers.” Most of the professors in the Humanities Program have not yet had an opportunity to
read the questionnaires. Accordingly, Dr. Rhodes emphasized that he could only speak for himself and that his interpretations were tentative.

Q&C Will Appear On Next Thursday

Quips and Cranks will not arrive until next Thursday rather than today as previously scheduled, announced Editor Arnie Snider yesterday.
Annuals will be distributed on Thursday and Friday in the Green Room of the College Union. Students absent from campus
at that time should make arrangements to have their copy picked up.
