Athletic Scholarships | Prohibited

The College Athletic Conference, frequently mentioned at Davidson as an alternative to the Southern Conference and its subsidized athletics, is based entirely, according to its members, on student participation in athletics “because of interest in and enjoyment of the game.” No member schools are allowed to give athletic scholarships, and neither athletic department officers nor coaches are allowed any authority in determining the recipients of general scholarship aid.

Now in its fifth year of play, the conference includes Southwestern at Memphis, The University of the South, Washington and Lee, Washington University in St. Louis, and Centre College of Kentucky.

LIMITED BUDGET

The conference maintains competition in football, basketball, wrestling, swimming, cross-country, baseball, track, golf, and tennis. The conference attempts to sponsor as much intercollegiate competition as possible, within the restrictions of a limited budget according to a Washington and Lee official.

Founded in 1962, the conference brought together five colleges which had previously abandoned subsidized athletic programs. Washington and Lee, the last to begin a non-subsidized program, dropped subsidized athletics in 1954.

NEW MEMBERS

Additional members may be admitted to the conference upon application to the board of directors and its subsequent unanimous approval. There is no intention to limit membership along geographical lines, although four of the five charter members are considered southern institutions.

According to Walter Bryant, director of athletics at The University of the South, the system has proved a success at Sewanee. He pointed to Sewanee's undefeated football teams in 1958 (before the CAC was founded) and 1965 as evidence that a non-subsidized program could work in a major sport. Desubsidization did not mean de-emphasis on winning, he commented.

H. EDMUNDS WHITE In CAC

He also pointed to strong school spirit among both students and alumni as evidence of Sewanee’s success in the non-subsidized athletic program experiment. “I am certain,” he added, “that our alumni are 100 percent sold on our program.”

“The fact that this is true at Sewanee does not necessarily mean that it would apply to other institutions,” he emphasized. “We are not on a soapbox declaring the virtues of our way of doing things.”

“It is simply a matter of necessity with us," he continued, pointing out that the schools with which Sewanee competes probably would drop them if they offered any sort of grant-in-aid program to athletes. Financially, the system has not been successful, according to Bryant. He added, however, that the university did not expect it to be because of its relative seclusion and consequent inability to draw crowds to athletic contests.

WHAT PRICE GLORY? $25,000 Loss Last Year

Athletic Considerations Not ‘Out Of Line’: White

“In essence, we do not accept anybody we cannot be reasonably sure will be able to succeed academically here,” stated Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White. However, White also explained that athletes do receive some special consideration by the Admissions Committee on the basis of their accomplishments in what White termed the ‘non-academic area.”

“In evaluating any applicant for admission we evaluate first and most important his academic success and potential, as indicated by his high school grades, his College Boards, and his recommendations, insofar as they indicate his potential to do the work.

“However, for every applicant, we are also interested in what he has done outside of his schoolwork, how he has used his time."

“We will take people not so strong academically because we feel that they have something to offer to Davidson College in other ways.”

White affirmed that ‘special emphasis” is given to three factors in the evaluation of non-academic considerations: whether the applicant is the son of an alumnus, whether the applicant is a football player, and whether the applicant is a basketball player. He suggested nonetheless that the Admissions Office is not really “doing anything out of line” in giving such special emphasis to athletic achievement. He cited Princeton, Amherst, Wesleyan (Conn.), and Sewanee in support of this statement.

“I am reasonably sure that these schools are taking athletes who are out of line with their normal academic standards,” he said. “It is accepted policy.”

In regard to the compatibility of awarding full, four-year athletic scholarships at an institution which awards all of its other financial aid on the basis of the applicant's need, White conceded that the policy was definitely inconsistent. He added, however, that this was only “one of a number of inconsistencies” which are always involved in the award of athletic scholarships.

“Also, it is the price you must pay to compete" if the school chooses to attempt to compete with other schools which give athletic grants. In explaining the award of athletic grants, White suggested, tongue-in-cheek, that perhaps “there are different kinds of need. A school may give aid on the basis of its needs, as well as on the basis of an applicant’s need—a coach's need for a top player—or the need of alumni for a good football team.”

“There is the negative factor, in that some people think less of Davidson because of its policy of giving athletic grants." He suggested that some high school counselors, many other colleges, and even prospective professors consider Davidson's policy on this subject to be inconsistent with the college's academic standards and its general financial aid policy, as well as being “inconsistent with the general purposes of the college.”

NO BURDEN ON COLLEGE Teams Need Support

By BOB REID Assistant Sports Editor

The present policy of athletic subsidization is necessary to compete with other schools in the Southern Conference, and does not place a telling burden on the college or the general athletic program, a spokesman for the Davidson Athletic Department said this week.

“We give athletic grants-in-aid so we can compete with other teams around here,” Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott said. “This is the best way to draw good players we need to build a team.”

Scott noted that all other teams in the conference provide grants for athletes. Some even provide aid for so-called minor sports, such as track, swimming, and wrestling.

GOLF TEAM

“Some people point out that the golf team, which is in no way subsidized, won the conference title and finished fourteenth in the national tournament. Desubsidized teams can do well in some sports, but basketball and football are different,” Scott said.

Scott said that the college has two athletic budgets, one called the general budget, which provides funds for coaches’ salaries, the physical education program, equipment, and other related expenses. In addition, there is a game budget which pays for teams’ travel expenses and costs of putting on games here. Travel and game expenses for the various sports run about $18,000.

“Ticket sales from basketball games pay for basketball’s travel expenses and those of all other sports except football, which just about pays for its own through ticket sales,” Scott said.

$45,000

Scott said basketball sales also net $45,000 which is put into the general fund. Expenses in the general fund would be incurred even in a desubsidized program, Scott noted, since equipment, coaches’ salaries, and janitorial fees would have to be covered.

As a positive factor, White cited the large number of applicants “who initially hear of Davidson because of the basketball team. They don’t apply because of the basketball team,” he said, “but they would not have heard of us at all in a great many cases had it not been for the team.”

When asked to assess the relative positive and negative influence of Davidson's athletic program and policies on the number of applicants, White replied immediately that there is “no doubt” but that the positive influences are greater.

Report Checks Davidson Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN Report examines this week in detail the current controversy over subsidized athletics at Davidson. The Report views the subject from several positions, taking a look at the finance of subsidization, the effect of large-scale athletics on admissions, and a possible alternative to subsidized athletics, joining the College Athletic Conference.

In addition, Assistant Sports Editor Bob Reid has contributed an in-depth study of the benefits of subsidized athletics. Finally, THE DAVIDSONIAN publishes two letters concerning subsidized athletics that were received as letters to the editor.

By ED EMBREE Staff Writer

“There are two ways to run an athletic program,” said Athletic Director Tom Scott, “as an educational or as a commercial enterprise.”

“At Davidson, we adhere to the educational philosophy, and we appropriate funds on the basis that athletics are worthwhile and of benefit to the school,” stated Scott.

He explained that the athletic fund is divided into two categories: the general fund and the game expenses in addition to the grants-in-aid given to some of the athletes. This year there are 58 full athletic grants, 45 in the football department and 13 in the basketball department. These grants range in value from $1,825 to $2,135, with the difference being explained by the gradual increase in tuition and other costs.

Full scholarships are split by the football and basketball coaches so that this year $26,640 is being distributed among fifteen basketball players and $88,340 is going to 65 footballers. The office of admissions and financial aid is responsible for all of this aid. H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, stated that the Committee of Financial Aid makes the grants on the recommendation of the coaches who determine the basis for each offer. The admissions office then makes sure that the college lives up to the grant of promised aid to the boy and keeps the overallProcess in line with NCAA policy, said White. General and game expenses for the athletic department are met with funds which come out of the Living Endowment. The athletic department regularly receives 34 percent of the Living Endowment, but both the percentage of overall monies and the actual figure have risen according to Alumni Director Bill Bondurant. All monies received from gate receipts go back into the Living Endowment. The general fund, including salaries, offices, recruiting, travel to the games, equipment, and the band expenses, is $216,170 this year. Scott said that $15,500 has been budgeted this year for recruiting in football and basketball. He stated that because of Davidson's admissions standards it takes more looking to find a boy who can both contribute to the athletic program and maintain a suitable academic average. Approximately $200 a year is budgeted from the general fund for tutoring although Scott stated that last year only $140 was used. The Physical Education program is allocated $3000 to $3500 a year and the intramural program receives $1000. Scott emphasized the fact that both of these programs make use of the equipment and other facilities maintained by other budgets.

Game expenses involve tickets, travel, food, lodging, exchange guarantees, and ushers and is the only profitable segment of the budget. All the different sports together last year lost approximately $25,000, although basketball made $45,000, including $13,000 from its participation in the NCAA playoffs, which gave the game expenses category of the budget a profit of about $19,000 according to Scott. Scott reported that with the improved football team, season ticket sales increased and overall attendance at the games has increased. He also reported that despite the higher expenses, Davidson still made twice as much money by playing in Charlotte for the Furman game than was made by playing George Washington at Davidson. Fred Sackett, assistant to the president, and Bill Bondurant, alumni director, gave the history behind the policy of subsidized athletics at Davidson. Sackett stated that in the 1930s and '40s Davidson gradually moved into the granting of aid to athletes “because everyone in the conference was already giving grants-in-aid.” Until 1955 or 1956 the monies for athletic grants were raised in a separate fund drive by the “Wildcat Club," a group of enthusiastic alumni. At that time D. Grier Martin, then treasurer, succeeded in combining the Wildcat Club drive and the drive for general operating expenses into one drive for the Living Endowment.

The Davidsonian | OCTOBER 28, 1966

Alumni Opinions Vary

Dear Editor:

For some years now I have been worried over the admission standards at Davidson and frankly questioned whether too much emphasis wasn't being placed on college board scores and high school averages and too little on extracurricular activities. Articles from last week's DAVIDSONIAN such as your editorial “Double Standards” and Tom Thel’s letter concerning Davidson's athletic program are, if they are representative of majority thinking at Davidson, proof that something strange has happened to the average Davidson student, and I as an alumnus don't recognize him. I am not acquainted with the athletic contribution you or Mr. Thel make to Davidson teams. However, I do know that your fellow students who are participating intercollegiately are spending many hours of each day training and practicing to adequately represent you and your school. Should you not be actively competing, it would seem more in the Davidson tradition for you to offer your help free in a tutoring capacity to your classmates rather than to condemn the Athletic Department's effort to help them by hired tutors. I, for one, am thankful that Davidson's athletic departments are able to attract students interested in “competition” and get them by the Admissions Committee. Maybe that’s the reason there aren't lace curtains on all the dorm windows.

L. C. HITE
Class of ‘41
Florence, S. C.

Dear Editor:

The controversy swirling around re-examination of Davidson’s athletic policies I note with much interest. While a student at Davidson, I did some investigation into what was then termed “athleticitis.” The arguments for re-examination then seemed to fall into three areas.

Desirability: The payment of tutors for athletes out of school funds and the entire subsidization program for student athletes both point up one fact: Students on athletic scholarships are first and foremost employees of the school. Students on athletic scholarships have a double set of obligations and loyalties to the extent that they are, in effect, hired athletes, paid to play and play well, and only secondarily to seek academic excellence. That point leads into a consideration of why Davidson should spend so much time, energy, and money to build big-time athletic teams. Lowering of academic standards deliberately for prospective athletes because they are athletes has produced some interesting justifications. But the Visiting Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools took a very critical view of Davidson's commitment to big-time athletics—why don’t some of you persuade the Administration to show you their comments (contained in a secret report, never released to the general public)?

Cost: With sophisticated bookkeeping the actual costs of big-time professional athletics could remain a secret forever. The Administration (when I was there) said that the program was nearly self-supporting—I still have my doubts. But one can turn to page 135 of the Self-Study report and see for himself that in about twenty years the cost of athletic scholarships will be equivalent to the entire Living Endowment fund. Keeping this in mind, figure the cost of equipping 50 football players and keeping up the supporting athletic facilities. There is a tremendous expense for big-time and intercollegiate football and basketball teams. Is it worth it? And at what cost to Davidson's traditional goals? You decide. Another factor is the cold and brutal fact that to keep up in Southern Conference football, Davidson would have to double its now 35 football scholarships. I have nothing but praise and admiration for the great job that Coach Smith and the 30 boys in varsity football are doing. I’ve heard other coaches say that Smith is one of the finest young men in collegiate coaching. But even as fine a coach as Coach Smith can't win consistently against squads with twice as many players almost as good as ours.

Alternatives: One: Pull out of the Southern Conference and go independent—the problem here is there are very few other independent schools in the area. Two: Pull out of intercollegiate football and basketball altogether—as has done Emory University, a fast-rising educational institution in Atlanta. This is a step that will require much forethought. At any rate, I'm glad to see that there are other students concerned about Davidson's commitment to big-time professional athletic teams. It’s a major question and deserves everyone's careful consideration.

MIKE HARRINGTON
Class of ‘66
Atlanta, Ga.

ARCHER'S TEXACO AND WRECKER SERVICE
SOUTH MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N. C.
All Brands of Motor Oil
Telephone 892-9374
24-hour Wrecker Service
N. C. INSPECTION STATION NO. 9907
Former Operator of the Gulf here in Davidson