Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD
Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Superhorse And Co.

We are accustomed to leaving the commentaries on sports to our sports staff and to their usual weekly spread in THE DAVIDSONIAN. However, winning the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament made big history and headlines last weekend and prompts a hearty congratulatory note in this column.

The 1966 version of the basketball Wildcats, a predominately sophomore-studded outfit led by a real “superhorse,” was not supposed to equal the nationally ranked teams of the past two years, which had failed miserably in the regular-season finale. But to the surprise of many of its followers, this year’s bunch more than equaled the most famous teams Davidson has produced.

Dick Snyder, a “superhorse” if there ever was one and Davidson’s greatest athlete; Phil Squier, the team’s steadiest player and a real unsung hero; Rodney Knowles, a rangy monster who is the team’s chief backboard cleaner; Tom Youngdale, a potentially great player who can really play basketball—when he wants to; and Bobby Lane, spirit and determination personified and a team leader himself with his all-around good play, compose only the first half of a great squad of Wildcats. Ronnie Stone, George Leight, Pinky Hatcher, Cecil Clifton, and Jim Hyder complement the starters in more ways than one.

The usual zest and pride that goes with a championship was hidden this week in Davidson's traditional overbearing coolness. But we believe that the unemotional air on campus was just the anticipation of greater things to come. And the road to Philly is the big hurdle now to the top. Let's go, Wildcats!

Encouraging Signs

Two recent actions on the part of fraternities at Davidson are just the beginning of a new attitude which these groups must assume in order to justify their continued existence here. We refer to the open houses after Vespers and the cooperative buying effort which has all but been effected among the 12 organizations.

Although the attendance was slim at the three fraternity houses which entertained Sunday night, the future is promising in developing an intellectually stimulating atmosphere which seems to be allergic to the way of life on Patterson Court.

Even more encouraging in the fraternities’ efforts to prove their worth is the cooperative purchasing group which has been formed under the guiding hand of Tom Covington, assistant dean of students and fraternity liaison officer. Instead of buying in small, individual units, the fraternities have organized on a wholesale scale to purchase in volume quantities. A new Interfraternity Treasurers Council has been organized which has spearheaded the effort. The group, headed by Irvine Welling, has worked all year to get the idea off the ground and hopes to realize the workability of the plan before the end of the school year. Estimated savings on each fraternity's board bill next year will be nearly $1,000.

We look forward to seeing the second half of the report of the Social Life Evaluation Committee, which will deal with the present role of fraternities on campus and what their future role should be. It is significant that the committee not only will examine closely the present contributions of the Greek chapters but also will look to what these social groups should be doing in the years ahead.

College fraternities throughout the country are coming under close scrutiny even more, particularly with the changing social patterns in America. Davidson is no exception. We feel that the committee will consider the two recent achievements of the fraternities which should benefit the entire college community. Among its deliberations, the committee will also realize what has not been done, we trust, along with what must be done in the future to assure each student of the opportunity for a complete social life.

The Carolina Student

The ordinary, unemotional way of doing things has a way of playing second fiddle to the strange but exciting happenings when it comes to making the news. Because of this, very little has been said about the mature and sensible attitude which has characterized the student body at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill during the recent developments concerning this state's infamous Speaker Ban Law.

The time has been ripe during the past few frustrating months for a spontaneous, news-making demonstration spurred on by the short tempers and shortsightedness of some students. Yet, the demure thinking of student leaders at Carolina is definitely a credit to the large majority of college students everywhere, especially in light of the immature actions so often attributed to the American student.

The latest chapter in an embarrassing account for the state of North Carolina was written this week. The university’s board of trustees granted to the UNC administration final authority in handling invitations and appearances of individuals who would have been barred under the original speaker ban law. We feel that the sensible actions of the Carolina students while negotiations were underway toward modifying the initial ban have made state officials and political figures more willing to compromise on the issue.

Last week over 1,000 students sat through a three-hour meeting to approve a statement of principle and policy on campus speakers. After the meeting, the group walked quietly to the home of UNC President William C. Friday, who was presented with the statement by the students. Both Friday and Acting Chancellor J. Carlyle Sitterson expressed their appreciation to the students for acting in a responsible and mature manner. Later in the week, nearly 100 faculty members subscribed to a sizable advertisement in The Daily Tar Heel to recognize the student department. The statement read: “The undersigned members of the UNC faculty express their approval and appreciation for the encouraging manner in which the students of the University have assumed initiative and continuing responsibility for the protection of an essential part of American freedom, the freedom to speak. We hope that this may serve as an example to those who take their responsibility for the nourishment of democracy less seriously.”

The stigma of the 1963 law and the loathsome hand of political interference unfortunately still hangs over the situation at Chapel Hill. But the attitude and serious thinking of the student will stand long after the muttering of old politicos. And in this way, the Carolina students have held themselves up well.

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE

Assistant Editors
Managing Editors
PAUL MARION
Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK
News Editor
SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor
LINDSAY DAVIS
Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK
Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM
Photography Editor
TOM THEL
Photographers
BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS
LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER
Cartoonists
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Bruce Weihe, Grey Pash, Bob Travers, Carter Fussell, Kern Parker, Bill Seigler, Cameron Ferguson, Robbie Hooker, John Williams, Allen Webb, Billy Farr, Lindsay Davis, Bob Reid, Jim Marrow, Cliff Duke, David King, Chip Robertson, Yates Faison, and K. D. Weeks.

Dear Editor:

We are quite concerned over the spirit of much of the criticism that has been leveled at the Social Council recently. Admittedly, Midwinters was nowhere up to par, but this was due, to a large extent, to matters beyond the Council's control. We feel that the criticism expressed by Mr. Howard, Mr. Marrow, and others in last week's DAVIDSONIAN appears rather impulsive. These men evidently know absolutely nothing about the mechanics and complications inherent in the process of booking.

For example, the “Four Tops,” currently one of the most popular groups around, were booked in November for Saturday night of Midwinters; because of a broad “rider clause” which we considered unacceptable, the contract was returned to be revised. Their agent replied that this would be done as soon as possible and assured us our booking was airtight. Then while the agent was on vacation, the group made other plans and the agent was unable to produce. Then the valuable time of the last two weeks of January was spent idly waiting because another agent misinformed us as to the availability of Dionne Warwick. Then with only two weeks to Midwinters, Lloyd Price was the best thing available in our price range. This is somewhat typical of the type of complications one can expect to encounter in the booking process.

Also, many popular groups refuse to book far in advance (e.g., several months) as they speculate on the possibility of “booming” overnight—and often do. The situation at Midwinters was unfortunate; any further excuses are unnecessary.

The criticism commonly heard also tends to be a little selfish. As a representative group of the entire student body, the Social Council feels a responsibility to present a well-balanced program—one that has something to interest everyone and at the same time can be popularly received. It seems that too many students think that because the Social Council does not always have “something real big” that it is “hurting.” Mr. Hawk and others are apparently unaware of the financial restrictions laid down by faculty, students, and administration when the Council was established last year. The Council is not allowed to spend more than $18,000, the approximate size of the IFC's old budget, on the three dance weekends and two concert weekends.

Will Trotter Attacks Ideas Of Current ‘Stop NSA’ Leaflet

Several days ago, I happened by pamphlet-laden door. The STOP NSA leaflet I read through with occasional laughter, and then read through again with grimmer reactions. I contemplated writing a satirical parody of the pamphlet, but soon realized how impossible it is to satirize a document so mindless that it, in fact, parodies itself.

The issue here is not NSA—personally, I feel that organization to be rather trivial and I don’t really give a damn whether it flourishes or folds up quietly. But what is of concern is the fact that anyone with an IQ of more than 50 could possibly read something like this without feeling morally and intellectually outraged.

Agreed. God help us, that NSA Bull Conner for President,Yes—Lynchings? Castrations? Mob rule? 4: Condemned U.S. involvement in the invasion of Cuba. This grand, freedom-loving nation armed, financed—and militarily supported an outright act of invasion and aggression against a small nation which, no matter how loud the Bearded squawk, can never be the remotest threat to the U.S., economically or militarily, so long as we keep vigilant about such matters as missile sites. The U.S. ... armed aggressor. The CIA revealed as a quasi-autonomous, semi-Fascist body. The very savagery of the Cuban peoples’ resistance to our invasion reveals just how much faith they have in their revolution, and how little business we have trying to overthrow them. It was U.S. stupidity and prejudice that drove Castro to Russia in the first place. Condemn NSA for condemning our invasion of a nation which, however obnoxious to us, was at peace with us? Sorry, boys.

5: Encouraged labor organization among the migrant workers. Here we have a semi-literate mass of people, living—if it can be called that—on a bare subsistence level, rootless and outcast, who are exploited as few minorities and as no industrial workers are anywhere in the country today. To bring them to an awareness of their own dignity as human beings, to help them organize to resist the economic exploitation they are forced to endure, this, to my mind, is not only a most American policy but a socially and morally desirable one as well.

NSA is further criticized for urging a stoppage of, and I quote, “Military and economic aid to Communist nations.” Now, I defy anyone to point to a single avowedly Communist nation to which we are now giving military aid. Economic aid to the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia has won a bloodless victory for the common interests of the human race and done more to better relations between East and West than any move in government cold-war policy.

Sometimes it is honorable to be known by the number and qualities of one's enemies, and I shall doubtless win a few more with this concluding statement: the pamphlet’s real highlight, besides the idiotic birth control statement, is a blast at NSA for daring to urge non-recognition of frats and sororities which practice discrimination. Now, the very purpose of most fraternity rigamarole is just THAT—to discriminate. To keep the select group untainted by Liberals, Flits (read: intellectuals), and Socially Undesirables (read: Niggers, wops, kikes, dagos, spics, the poor in general). To pay a hefty fee in money and time in order that one may BUY his circle of friends, ready-made, and thus ensure that through his college life he will not be tainted by contact with people of substantially different tastes and ideas.

And, since NSA stands for the liberalization or outright abolition of frats, NSA is therefore un-American and Dangerous. This conclusion is in the pamphlet, backed up by a statement from that outstanding expert of sociology, the Executive Secretary of Sigma Nu. No... NSA doesn’t speak for all American students and it shouldn't state that it does. But deep inside, one wishes fervently to God that it did.

William R. Trotter
Davidson College

The $30,000 is supposed to be used by the Social Council to produce a more complete social program. This is in keeping with the concept, initiated by a defensive fraternity system last year in which the IFC would relinquish its social responsibility to a campus-wide organization. Behind this concept was the desire for a better social atmosphere at Davidson through the providing of more opportunity for social expression. The additional $12,000 is being spent by the Council and the Union in attempting to realize this noble goal. Some of these “extras” first semester were numerous combo parties on football and basketball weekends and a performance by Josh White on a weeknight. Second semester there are plans for an additional concert weekend, a week-long visit by a famous comedian, and an extra combo party or two.

Though we feel that the opinions expressed in last week's DAVIDSONIAN were unduly critical, we do believe that constructive criticism can be quite beneficial. The Social Council is wide open for any suggestions from all students for ideas that will strengthen the “traditional programs” and especially for creative ideas for experimental programs, such as the mid-morning breakfast; and it is especially desirous for support (i.e. attendance) of projects which are suggested.

Irv Welling
Dan Campbell
Davidson College

Johnson

Dear Editor:

The last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN carried a feature article on the college's involvement with Project Opportunity at Irwin Avenue Junior High School in Charlotte. I would like to furnish a bit more information about the Project and to expand some of the statements in that article.

As THE DAVIDSONIAN article stated, it is Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White who is primarily responsible for Davidson College's participation in this program. He has been connected with the project for more than two years, and from the beginning he has enjoyed the warm support of the Davidson administration. Any “pushing” by Mr. White has been directed toward the establishment of an active and effective committee of faculty members to implement Davidson's involvement with Project Opportunity.

Although the planned program for this summer will be the first full-scale undertaking by the college, Davidson has already made numerous contributions toward expanding the area of experience of the Project students. Several Davidson professors have spoken to classes at Irwin Avenue school. Project students have enjoyed the facilities of the Davidson campus and have been invited to plays, lectures, concerts, and athletic contests at Davidson. Last month the Fine Arts Committee gave 30 free tickets to Hal Holbrook's performance to Project students, and Dr. Tom Scott furnished them with 75 free tickets to the Davidson-NYU game in the Charlotte Coliseum.

If the planned summer program for Project Opportunity students is to be a success, the local committee will need the cooperation not only of the Davidson faculty and students, but also of the people of the town of Davidson, many of whom undoubtedly know much more about teaching junior high school students than does the average faculty member. The committee is confident that this help will be forthcoming from the Davidson community.

Norman Johnson
Instructor of History

The sweet taste of Conference tournament success is a welcome addition to an up-to-here very bleak semester. Sincere congratulations are in order to this year’s Wildcat squad, a group that gives true meaning to the word “team.”

HERE’S YOUR CHANCE

Within the next week, you will be given a chance to help Davidson in a very significant way. Each student will be asked to suggest people he knows who might be interested in becoming “friends of the college” through their financial aid. An idea born in the student body, organized by students, and directed by students, the Student Ford Challenge Fund Drive could be a very significant money-raising effort—if it has the support of every Davidsonian.

Each student will be asked to turn in a list of possible contributors who are neither parents of Davidsonians nor Davidson alumni. Personal letters and challenge fund brochures will be mailed to these people before Spring Break. During your Spring Break, or during a weekend before June, you will be expected to go by to visit with this person, to tell him personally what the College proposes to do with the Ford Challenge Drive money. Bill White, national co-chairman of the Ford Challenge Fund Drive, will address assembly on Thursday, and will tell students some of the “hows” of fund raising. In addition, descriptive and explanatory material will be made available to each student solicitor.

Possible “friends” could be the little old lady down the block, or your home town’s self-made man, or your long-lost Cousin Joe, as well as businesses, foundations, and civic clubs. If every student raised $100 for the college, our effort would gain us $100,000, to be supplemented by $40,000 in aid from the Ford foundation.

Gripers, here is your chance to stop simply complaining about Davidson and to get out and actually work to make the college a better place. It is a chance for all of us to ensure the increasing value of our Davidson diploma. There is nothing this school, using money well spent, cannot accomplish. Why don’t WE get out and help raise some of this needed money?

OLD GLORY... (DRIP, DRIP)

Is the ROTC department in the throes of a tremendous case of apathetic behavior? It certainly seems so, in light of its recent treatment of one of its campus responsibilities, the care of the American flag that flies at the north end of Chambers. At least three times in the month of February, the flag remained hoisted during inclement weather. One of these instances was during a swirling snow storm, another last Monday during the deluge of rain. The flag remained flying for 36 continuous hours one weekend in early February. Can’t someone be found, in the vast required manpower pool that operates out of Fort Belk, to discharge the simple duty of “respect to the colors”?

FUNNY FOR THE WEEK

A Baptist preacher converted a millionaire to the “faith.” As he was about to immerse the convert, the preacher turned to an aide and said, “I hope I've got a tither in my tank.”