PAGE FOUR
By BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

A FAIRY TALE...

Once, at a place not so very far from here in a day not so very long ago, lived a
white-legged, scrawny, little kid, a 98-pound weakling, the son of David Trusty—and, as his name escapes me now, I shall
refer to him as just that, David Trusty’s boy, David's son.

A quiet, studious fellow, David's son spent his days and nights pouring over the works of Chaucer, Plato and Moses,
and under the careful eye of his parents he learned to worship two heroes, Woodrow Wilson and Dean Rusk. At
times, however, when his parents were away (usually at church, for they were very devout), David’s son would venture outside
the walls of his huge white-columned brick mansion and walk down the street protected only by his knowledge of the
classics, the Bible, sciences and higher mathematics. Needless to say he was not very well protected. For every time he
ventured outside he would return beaten to a pulp, covered with cuts and bruises, with sand kicked in his face
and all the girls laughing at him.

And then it happened—his parents caught our downtrodden little hero as he crawled back home after one unusually bad beating
by the neighborhood bullies. Shocked by what they saw, the Trustys got together and searched mail order catalogues until they
finally found what they needed. Within a few days David’s son’s Charles Atlas kit arrived from Newport News, COD.

Ah, how diligently our hero worked. First he built up the left side of his body and convinced this was
enough to protect him he ran outside and straight away knocked out one of the nation’s biggest bullies. Unfortunately he
needed a bit more work on his right side because he was immediately trounced on by a local bully from
Catawba and then six more as he struggled home to improve his body a bit more. Back in his work-out
room he lifted more weights and sprouted new muscles and gained new confidence. Emerging with his new bod, David’s son
became a Robin Hood, Superman, Hercules, Lyndon Johnson all rolled into one. He no longer hid behind the thick brick
of his white-columned home, but ventured forth into the world, a champion of the oppressed, bashing the bullies that were
lying in wait for him. And the bullies fell, and the nation marveled at this paragon of virtue who proved
his kindness once a year in a senseless neighborhood free-for-all when he’d let the fellows who used to trounce him
bring back old times by beating up on him again.

Perhaps we should end our story here. A happy ending generally is in order for a fairy tale, but this
ending must be more grim and less Grimm. Alas and alack, I cannot say our hero lived happily ever after
or once he’d destroyed the biggest bullies in his neighborhood, he moved farther from home taking on bullies from anywhere,
on any terms, at any time. Alas and alack, I cannot say the poor and oppressed became his fans and
followers, ever marveling at his courage and bravery. For the nation scoffed and forgot his early courage. Instead of remembering
his early courage and thinking of him as the Cinderella, Robin Hood, and knightly-type creature he’d started out as, the
nation pictured him more as the two step sisters, the Sheriff of Nottingham, and the fire breathing dragon-type. And forgetting
his early courage, those he'd charmed at first began picturing him as a bully as bad as any he'd vanquished.
No one would give him credit for pummeling old ladies, beating up little boys, and bouncing new born babies like
basketballs being pounded into the shellac on the floor of his fancy new house—a glass and cement, modern structure with
a dome roof. And instead of being praised as he’d been earlier, David’s son was chastised by those who'd sung
his greatness in the past few years. Instead of a young, strong boy, the flower of American youth, David’s son
was called a bully by the very people he’d amazed with his early strength.

Perhaps he can regain his early popularity by taking on some more bullies and boys more his own size and
age. Or perhaps he will lose all his early popularity completely. For I am told that even last week another
David (not our hero’s dad) was hurling a rock into the eye of a Goliath. For another white-legged, scrawny, little
kid, a 98-pound weakling rose out of the sea somewhere in Maryland and stalked a new bully, striking him a
death blow within the very walls of his stately, shiny-floored mansion.

... WITH A MORAL

“I understand Lefty Driesell thinks it was a fluke that we beat him at Charlotte. With the schedule he’s got
it ought to be an accident whenever anybody beats him,” Wake Forest’s Jackie Murdock told a group of sports writers
last month in Winston-Salem. Perchance Murdock is right. But easy schedule or not tomorrow night’s game with West Virginia will
not be easy. Instead, it will be a chance for Driesell to show the nation’s skeptics his ’Cats are capable
of taking on and beating top teams. It will be a chance for Driesell to show the nation’s skeptics his
’Cats deserve a national ranking—and not the reputation of a bully that goes around beating up little boys.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BILL RADCLIFFE CAPTURES THE BALL FROM SNYDER
A Typical Shot Of A Sloppy Game IN CHRISTMAS TOURNEY

Look for West Virginia to employ their box-and-one defense against Dick Snyder and the Wildcats in tomorrow night’s 8 p.m.
clash at the Charlotte Coliseum. Any defense that can hold North Carolina’s Bob Lewis to 12 points in a game
and thereby beat the Tarheels has to have something going for it. And Wildcat star Snyder will probably get the
chance to test it.

Leading the young Mountaineers is 6-3 sophomore sensation Ron Williams, an elusive dribbler, fine playmaker, and good shooter, averaging over
20 points per game. Carl Head, a former junior college All-America and Most Valuable Player in the national junior college
tournament, provides another threat. Head is perhaps somewhat inconsistent, and his play may greatly influence the outcome. Others to see
a good deal of action include returnee guard John Lesher, who hurt the Cats in last year's tournament, guard Dave
Palmer, who was primarily responsible for stopping Carolina’s Lewis, 6-8 center Bob Benfield, and 6-6 sophomore forward Dave Reaser, who
scored 16 against Carolina.

Assistant Coach Terry Holland commented that West Virginia has good depth and size, but he emphasized their quickness. “We're going
to have to stop Head and do a good job against Williams to beat them,” commented Holland. “It’s sure going
to be a tough one.”

Tuesday finds the ‘Cats entertaining the Bulldogs from The Citadel at Johnston Gymnasium. As in years past, the Bulldogs are
a scrappy, quick team led...by fine guards and good outside shooters. One man to watch is guard Herwig Baumann, a
good shooter and according to Coach Holland, "watchable and always."

Stale 'Cats Settle For Third
By ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson's Wildcats came back from the Christmas layoff noticeably stale and fumbled their way to a disappointing third place finish
in the Third Annual Charlotte Invitational Tournament, as they lost to Navy, 65-60, and clipped Mississippi State, 72-60.

Favored to continue domination of the event with a third consecutive crown, the 'Cats ran into trouble on the first
night in the form of icy shooting and poor ball-handling. They jumped to a quick 4-1 lead, then closed up
shop and watched the Midshipmen operate. With less than two minutes gone, Chris Reddington gave Dick Snyder, already yoked with
two fouls, a fake and scooted in for an easy layup that started a two-minute spree in which the 'Cats
were outscored, 9-0. They managed to close up the gap to three, but then Navy center Jim Snook hit a
pair of looping 25-foot jump shots to begin a four-minute period in which Davidson could manage only two free throws.
The half closed with Navy leading, 35-26, and the reason was all too clear: The 'Cats had shot 31.3 percent
from the floor and had ten turnovers to the Middies' three.

The second half was a little better. Davidson put together strings of eight and six points and finally tied the
score, 51-51, at 5:24. It was 53-55 at 2:29, then Snyder came to the line with a one-and-one situation. The
usually dead-eyed Snyder bounced his first try in but missed the second; half a minute later he missed the first
shot with a similar situation. Meanwhile, Bill Radcliffe had hit for three points. Snyder hit two free throws, but Snook
broke the Wildcats' backs with a three-point play at 0:32. By that time, the Wildcats were in the consolation bracket.

Rodney Knowles had game highs of 24 points and 17 rebounds, and Snyder added 18 points, although he made only
three field goals. Phil Squier had 12 points.

The next night Davidson rolled to an easy 72-60 victory over Mississippi State's Bulldogs in a game marred by the
officials' petty foul calls. The lead changed hands five times and the score was tied eight times, but the 'Cats
led most of the time. With ten minutes left, Phil Squier tossed in two free throws and Snyder and Knowles
each dropped in jump shots, and the Wildcats were off. Knowles again led the scoring with 23 points, and Snyder
took second with 16. His output was far below his 29.1 average, but Knowles' performance lifted his average to an
even 20 points per game and earned him a spot on the All-Tournament team. Joining him were Reddington, Mississippi State's
Dave Williams, and Princetonians John Haarlow and Gary Walters, the tournament's outstanding player.

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The Christmas vacation brought Lefty and his chargers three victories in non-tournament action. Captain Dick Snyder led the assault over
Dartmouth, 93-74, Ohio University, 96-53, and William and Mary, 90-59.

Against Dartmouth, the Wildcats got off to a shaky start and trailed by eight points at one time. By halftime
they had pulled in front by 39-37, but it took an improved second half to put the game on ice.
Although they hit 67.5 percent from the floor and outrebounded the Ivy-Leaguers 45 to 24, the victory was marred by
twenty ball-handling errors. Snyder led the scoring with 19 and Knowles had 16. Tom Youngdale performed well after missing the
previous game and totaled 19 points. Senior Ronny Stone was the brightest spot of the night, scoring 14 points and
hauling down 11 rebounds.

Ohio was the next opponent to feel the force of Snyder's boys. The Ohio senior was unstoppable in compiling a
career high of 46 points on 20 of 26 field goal attempts. The team performance was easily the season's best
with Knowles adding 22 and Youngdale 13 points. Phil Squier, Stone, and George Leight excelled unselfishly in helping Snyder tie
Fred Hetzel's record of 20 field goals in one game. To top the show, Snyder held Ohio's top scorer to
seven points.

Lefty's roundballers bounced back from a disappointing showing in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament by crushing William and Mary and running
the season's record to 9-2. Another fabulous performance by Snyder resulted in 39 points on 13 of 15 field goals.
Driesell pointed out that the fine jobs of Bobby Lane and Rodney Knowles were not to be overlooked. While the
Spiders fretted over Snyder, Knowles and Lane were scoring 20 and 25 points respectively. In Lane's 25 points were nine
from the free throw line, where he shot 100%. In fact, he has hit 36 straight without a miss in
his college career. Lane's fine performance at the charity stripe gives him a shot at the collegiate record of 37
straight. The 'Cats are now 5-0 in the conference and 10-2 overall.

Spiders Mashed By Snyder, 'Cats

Looking a little weary from Tuesday night's capers, Coach Lefty Driesell recounted some of the 98-89 victory over Richmond. "It
was a tough contest throughout." Going on he said, "I was real pleased with the outcome, and our overall hustle
was real good." The Spiders' game strategy to stop Snyder fell apart in the second half. In spite of the
defensive efforts of Terry Burgess and Dick Balderson, who both fouled out, Snyder managed to escape with 38 points and
22 rebounds, both game highs.

La Roma — CHOICE
The Rendezvous in Charlotte at
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiane — Salads
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Open 'til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Do Not Miss Our Winter SALE
Reductions In Fine Traditional Clothing
Sportscoats Pants

a treat to the fans." Danny Moher, at 6-6, is good on the boards and has a good jump shot.
Dave Muller is also a fine outside shooter for 6-6 and is a big scorer for The Citadel. Doug Bridges,
a sophomore who played well against last year's freshmen, and John DeBrosse, another good ball-handler, round out the starting squad.
Were it not for a couple of dropouts, the Bulldogs would present even more of a threat. They lost one
man due to grades and another for disciplinary reasons. Both were expected to be team leaders this year. Holland stated,
"We expect to be tough from what we know of them. We know they'll put forth a lot of hustle."

RON WILLIAMS
West Virginia's Soph Sensation

Clothing For The Pace-Setting Traditionalist
John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE
Our 54th Year
