Harriers Head To Raleigh; State Meet Slated Monday

Davidson’s varsity and freshman cross-country teams go to Raleigh to run in the North Carolina State Cross-Country meet Monday. Duke,
N.C. State, Carolina, Wake Forest, St. Andrews, East Carolina, and Carolina College will also send teams to contend for the
state crown.

UNC will be particularly strong with harriers Mike Williams and Goodwin Truitt largely responsible for their success. In a meet
with ECC last week, Williams posted a time of 20:31.5 minutes over a four-mile course. Don Jayroe of ECC ran
the course in 20:40.

Davidson’s harriers will go into the meet with a 4-4 record after defeating High Point and Baptist College in a
triangular meet here Tuesday. Team captain Barry St. Clair again finished first among the Wildcat runners but ran behind Baptist’s
Larry Campbell, who broke St. Clair’s course record with a time of 21:32. Mike Moats, Randy Phillips, and James Wall
finished fifth, sixth, and seventh, respectively, for Davidson. Other runners who will run for Davidson include Colin Hudson, Bill Morse,
and Fred Lowrance.

Against state opponents, the Wildcat harriers have a 1-2 record. They defeated St. Andrews 19-43 but lost to East Carolina
18-39 and Wake Forest 18-38.

Freshman Runners Shine

The freshman cross-country team defeated the Baptist College freshman and Catholic High of Charlotte Tuesday in a triangular meet here.
The frosh harriers romped by Baptist 25-32 and Catholic 19-37 for their eighth victory of the year against two defeats.
John Puckett paced the harriers with a 10:16 time over the two-mile course to place first. Dan Herd trailed him
by five seconds and finished third overall. Allen Pusey finished sixth, and James Puckett came in seventh. Stagg Newman, Dave
Wasserman, and Jack Crumbly finished twelfth, fourteenth, and sixteenth respectively for the ‘Kittens.

The Pucketts led North Mecklenburg High School to the North Carolina High School Championship in cross-country last year. John Puckett
was the North Carolina High School Champion in cross-country and in the 880. He has finished first for Davidson in
all ten meets. Pusey attended Anacostia High in Washington, D.C., where he won the AAU two-mile and the 10,000-meter cross-country
last year. Herd helped Midland High School win the Texas State High School Championship last year. He also anchored the
sprint medley relay team which was ranked fourth in the nation last year. These four should brighten the Davidson cross-country
picture considerably for the next three years, Whittle said. The freshman thinclads have whipped Southern Conference foes Furman, VMI, and
East Carolina so far this season.

Betas, Cannon Keep Big Leads

By DANNY WHITE
Sports Writer

The Betas remained unbeaten and continued their domination of the IMAC flickerball competition this past week by bombing the Delts,
44-20. They had previously blasted the KA’s, 28-6. The two victories brought the Beta record to 9-0. The Betas combined
a fine running and passing game in smashing the Delts. Sam Cathey, Frank Bass, Joe Rice, Mac Otts, and Jim
Timmons all scored for the Betas. Frank Powell and Jack Sherrill also played a fine game for the Betas. The
Delts were led by Terry O’Hair, Ronnie Hunt, and Frank Murphy, who scored three TDs.

The Delts rebounded to smash the Kappa Sigs, handing the Sigs their third defeat of the season. The Delts led
only 18-10 at the half, but they completely smothered the Sigs in the second half. The final score was 38-14.
Brooks Sheldon, Wayne Rhodes, and George Leight starred for the Delts.

In other IMAC competition, the KA’s put down the hapless Indies, 32-12. The Indies were also beaten by the Pi
Kapps, 33-12. Sigma Nu walloped the SPE’s, 44-20. The Machis moved into a tie for third place with the Sigs
by beating the SAE’s, 20-12. In last week’s action, the ATO’s rolled by the Nu’s, 53-27, and the Machis clobbered
the Pi Kapps, 44-6. The Delts beat the Indies, 24-12.

IMAC STANDINGS
(Through Thursday's Games)
Beta 9-0
ATO 7-2
Sigma Chi 6-3
Kappa Sig 5-5
Phi Delt 5-4
KA 5-4
Phi Gam 4-5
SAE 3-6
Sigma Nu 3-6
Pi Kapp 3-6
Pika 0-9
SPE 0-9

FRESHMAN
Cannon I 6-1
East I 4-3
Cannon II 4-3
East II 3-4
Watts 0-5

Cannon I has all but clinched the freshman flickerball title. There were no freshman games this week. Only four games
remain on the schedule. Cannon I has been led during the season by Romey Fisher, Fred Kastner, Rick Barton, Steve
Roland, Rusty Mickler, and Wright Caughman. East I, tied for second place with Cannon II, is led by Charlie Brockwell,
Edgar Exum, Frank Gray, John Tolle, Rick Saunders, and Bill Bowman. Cannon II is led by Dick Young, William Brown,
John Huggins, Bill Shutt, Randy Jones, and Steve Hayes. Jim Nichols, Roy Stuckey, Lonnie Davis, Bart Walker, Paul Rothburt, and
Tommy Tendron have starred for East II. Hapless Watts has seen outstanding performances by Robin Murray and Bill Traxler.

Monday—Friday
The Hub
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

CONFERENCE FOOTBALL STANDINGS
William and Mary 3-1-1
East Carolina 3-1-1
George Washington 4-2-0
West Virginia 1-1-1
DAVIDSON 2-3-0
Furman 1-2-0
VMI 1-2-0
Richmond 1-2-0
Citadel 1-4-0

From Van Heusen’s 417 Collection
For the Pace Setting Traditionalist
The classic look with traditional styling means a Van Heusen “417 V-Tapered” shirt. Every detail is finely tailored to give
you a neat, natural look. From the button-down collar to the back box pleat — it’s complete authenticity for men
of all ages. You'll find a large selection of dress and sport shirts in a wide range of colors and
fabrics. 100% Cotton Permanent Press Combed Oxford 6.00

ALEC NEISLER HEADS
Happy Appy Falls, 2-1

The Davidsonian
November 4, 1966
Page Five

TOM COOK
SPORTS EDITOR
The Point After;
WANTED: A GUIDINGLIGHT

From a gym veiled by the cloud of secrecy come the reports that the Wildcat varsity was soundly trounced by
the freshmen Wednesday night, much to the chagrin of Coach Lefty Driesell. While not giving any weight to this report
(though it came from a reputable source) it seems to confirm opinions of some of us that something is missing
from this year’s edition of the “Darlings of Dixie Basketball,” to quote my journalistic friend in the gym, super-SID. Judging
from the scrimmage Saturday, it’s obvious that the intangible quality missing is leadership.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

‘CATS’ WINNING GOAL

Pembroke, Wildcats Tangle Tomorrow

Davidson’s soccer team will tangle with Pembroke tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. when the 'Cats host Pembroke. Last season the booters
whitewashed Pembroke 8-0. This year Pembroke may provide a few surprises for the Foglemen, since they downed St. Andrews, who
in turn whipped Davidson.

Wednesday saw the Foglemen survive an overtime to upset Pfeiffer 4-3 here. Wing Jim Marrow scored on a 40-yard boot
with 50 seconds left in the first overtime to edge out the Falcons. The ‘Cats jumped to an early lead
when Captain George Brown booted in a goal from the edge of the goalie circle. Marrow added another tally from
just inside the penalty area to give the Foglemen a 2-0 halftime lead.

In the third quarter, Bill Dutton connected to put Pfeiffer on the scoring charts. Marrow then boosted the Davidson margin
to 3-1 with a goal with a minute gone in the final period. Ross Hagstoz led the Pfeiffer comeback, scoring
first on a penalty kick with 6:30 minutes left, and then later with 2:50 on the clock, to send the
game into overtime.

“Brown played an outstanding game,” said Fogleman, “He followed Pfeiffer’s Brazilian player everywhere he went."

In their third win of the season, the booters downed a tough Appalachian team 2-1 last Friday. After a scoreless
first quarter, halfback Charlie Cameron tallied on a corner shot. Appalachian tied it up in the third quarter after a
fast break up the middle. Davidson's winning goal came in the final period when Alec Neister headed in a pass
from halfback Mac Fiddner. Fogleman praised goalie Kem Anderson as the game's outstanding player. “Anderson made 38 saves, ten of
which were really close,” he said.

Anderson managed to stop four penalty kicks in the game. On the first kick, he moved before the opponent made
contact, thus allowing a second try. The next time the ball was kicked before the referee blew the whistle. On
the final try, the ball struck the crossbar and bounced back onto the playing area, where the penalty kicker hoisted
the ball over the goal.

Upcoming games on the ‘Cat schedule include Belmont Abbey there Wednesday and Emory here next Saturday. Davidson will again play
host for the conference tournament Nov. 17-19. Defending their conference crown will be the West Virginia Mountaineers, who downed the
‘Cats in the finals of last year’s tourney.

There isn’t a Dick Snyder or a Fred Hetzel or a Terry Holland or a Bill Jarman this year. When
there aren’t any seniors on your team, the juniors must carry the burden of leading the sophomores. The one junior
who could have supplied the necessary guidance this year turned to other fields of endeavor. So there is a leadership
void. Hence the troika captainship which will clutter the center circle and outnumber the referees. But the idea of tri-captains
is sound because it gives any of these three, Rod Knowles, Tom Youngdale, or Dave Moser, the chance to move
up from this position to the real job of leading the team.

The history of Davidson basketball has included year in and year out the presence of a sparkplug who could get
the points in the clutch and draw superhuman efforts from his mates when it counted. That is what this year’s
team will have to have if we are to remain strong against the rigors of a tough schedule. (At least
we'll get outside the county a couple of times this year.)

Knowles came through in the clutch last year, averaging over 30 points a game in the NCAA playoffs. Quoting Lefty
in the Southern Conference propaganda: “He should be one of the best big men in the country.” He could be
the leader if he wants to be. The best-known of the cagers, he is the most experienced and will have
to carry the load that Dick Snyder pulled last year.

Moser is a rarity in Wildcat basketball circles because he will be the first pointman to shoot enough to be
considered an offensive threat since Driesell arrived. Whether he becomes the leader depends on whether the others fail to come
through. The Driesell system gives the ball to the pivotmen for the easy shot and hence, Moser will have to
take the shots because they won't come to him.

The player who may become the Dick Snyder this year is Wayne Huckel. Because of his manner of play, he
will foul, but he will get fouled. A Huckel in there could be the spark to ignite the big men
out of their complacency. A Huckel on the bench will help little.

The Varsity needs a leader. If that person identifies himself early in the season, the Davidson tradition will continue. If
he doesn’t, the five players out there will still win games, but not the big ones. Someone needs only to
take the initiative. And take it soon.

Get out from under this weekend. Fly someplace—for half fare on Eastern. Visit a friend in another town. See an
“away” game. Change the scene. Leave late, come back late, enjoy a long weekend—without cutting classes. Use your Eastern Youth
ID Card, or another airline's version. If you don’t have one—and you're under 22—you really ought to. To get your
Youth Fare Card, send a $3 check or money order, proof of age (copy of driver's license, birth certificate or
passport) to Eastern Airlines, Department 350, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, N.Y., N.Y. 10020. With your Youth ID Card, you can get
an Eastern ticket for half fare. No advance reservations are permitted. But if there’s a seat free at departure time,
after passengers holding reservations and military personnel have been seated, you can fly to any Eastern city in the United
States. And look down on all the drivers.
