FALL TO ABBEY AGAIN

Basemen Split With Citadel

Last Saturday the Wildcat diamondmen met The Citadel Bulldogs on “Gnat and Mosquito Field" in Charleston for a Southern Conference doubleheader. The first game saw Howard Bryan, the Big ‘Cat of the mound staff, handcuff the Bulldog bats for a 2-0 victory. Misfortune plagued the ‘Cat pitchers and batters in the second game and they fell, 9-0.

Bryan allowed seven well-spaced hits and kept the Bulldogs off balance at the plate as he pitched the first shutout by a Davidson pitcher in three years. Jim Hyder was three for four at the plate, and Dick Lindsey, Claude Owen, and David King had one hit each. The Davidson runs were scored in the fifth inning on wild pitches by Citadel pitcher Smitty Holland, who recorded 12 strikeouts against the ‘Cats.

SAD THING

The second game was a sad thing which saw Henry Wilmer run into control trouble in the third inning and allow four runs after he had pitched well in the first two innings. His control trouble might be attributed to the vicious mosquitoes sucking his blood, to the horrible odor which pervades all of Charleston, or to the sand blowing in his face. At any rate, Coach Tom Stevens sent out the call for a fireman and Charlie Elliott came on to retire the side. But the Bulldogs got two more runs in the fourth inning and three unearned runs in the fifth. Elliott was finally able to retire the side in order in the sixth. The ‘Cats’ bats, most of which were broken in the first game, had only four hits to contribute—two by Hyder, and one each by Lindsey and Jack Smith. Thus felleth the ‘Cats, 9-0, with Wilmer being charged with the loss.

ABBEY BAD NEWS

Tuesday afternoon at Davidson, Belmont Abbey brought more hard luck to the ‘Cats. Gene Bennett, who had pitched well for 8 1/3 innings, suddenly tired, as did the Davidson defense. The score was tied 3-3 at the start of the inning, but the Abbey pounded Bennett and reliever Bryan for eight runs, which resulted in an 11-3 lead, and the ball game. The team managed only three hits off two Crusader pitchers, singles by Hyder, Lindsey, and Owen. Coach Stevens expressed some displeasure at the way the team played the last inning and demanded immediate improvement. He said, “We just give too many ball games away. We kill ourselves much more than the other team ever could.”

FULL WEEKEND AHEAD

This weekend the ‘Cats travel to West Virginia to take on the Mountaineers, a team with an overall batting average of .322, and four hitters batting over .300. They also have a good RBI man in centerfielder Don Hetzel and two good pitchers in Vaughn Kovach (ERA: 0.32) and Jerry Meadows (ERA: 2.29). They are always tough, but, oddly enough, they have not scored a lot of runs this year. On Monday the team goes to William and Mary to play the Indians in the ‘Cats’ final road appearance of the year. The Indians are second in the conference and have surprised a lot of people this year. Coach Stevens has expressed the fear that a shortage of manpower could hurt the team on a long trip like this, but the ‘Cats are going to bow their necks and try to improve their 4-6 conference mark.

1966 SPRING FOOTBALL ROSTER

ENDS
Class Height Weight
Greg Cox Soph. 5-10 160
Pete Glidewell Jr. 5-9 185
Buddy Newsom Jr. 6-2 185
Claude Owen Sr. 6-2 185
Sam Rikard Sr. 6-1 195
Covey Carter Soph. 5-9 160

TACKLES
Lindsay Bishop Soph. 6-0 200
Sandy Brenneman Soph. 6-2 205
Lowell Bryan Jr. 6-4 220
Jeff Pflugner Soph. 6-4 210
Bill Randolph Sr. 6-0 210
Bill Richmond Soph. 6-1 200
Kit Thompson Jr. 6-3 205
Gary Waldron Sr. 6-0 210

GUARDS
John Giles Jr. 6-0 190
Tupper Morehead Jr. 6-1 200
Joe Murphy Soph. 6-1 205
John Slaughter Soph. 5-10 185
Dick Stoops Sr. 5-11 215
Hank Strickland Soph. 6-4 205
Bill Wood Jr. 6-3 199

CENTER
Walter Greene Jr. 6-0 190

LINEBACKERS
Joe Caddy Sr. 5-9 185
Ted Howell Jr. 5-11 175

QUARTERBACKS
Jake Jacobsen Jr. 5-10 165
Jimmy Poole Jr. 5-10 165
Hal Shaw Jr. 6-0 185
Rick Simonson Soph. 6-1 190

CORNERBACKS
Tommy Dews Sr. 6-1 175
Sam Gwynn Soph. 6-0 180
Lewis Homer Soph. 6-0 180
Dick Lindsey Jr. 5-11 195

BACKS
Tom Caldwell Jr. 6-2 180
Dave Fearnbach Soph. 5-10 190
Rena Gruber Sr. 6-2 180
Kerry Keith Soph. 5-10 190
Billy Taylor Jr. 5-11 185
Mike Thornton Soph. 6-0 190
Johnny Walker Sr. 5-10 180

Linksters Slide As USC Romps

In the words of Dr. Tom Scott, the Davidson golf team “got shellacked” as the University of South Carolina downed the ‘Cats Monday in Charlotte. Champ Covington was the low man for Davidson with a 79 and was the only Davidson player to shoot below 80. The final score of the Gamecock-dominated contest was 18½-2½. Dr. Scott spoke of the match as being “the worst of the year.” The ‘Cats were hampered by cold and rainy weather, along with the absence of George Leight, who will also miss the upcoming Wake Forest match. Scott said that it “was a pretty long course,” but that the match was “good for the weather.” This brought the Davidson record to 5-3.

A LITTLE CONFUSED

Scott Signs With Carolina; Driesell Looks To May 17

“We still expect Charlie Scott to show up at Davidson,” maintained Coach Lefty Driesell Tuesday night. “He was accepted, signed a grant-in-aid, and put down $100 as a binder. We just think he’s a little confused, but we expect him to come here. He is normally obligated to do so.” This was Driesell's comment after hearing Charlie Scott, under the suggestion of his coach, began visiting schools. For the past six months, Scott had signed an athletic grant-in-aid with the University of North Carolina. “I’ve been thinking about this a long time,” Scott announced. “It was really a question of choosing between North Carolina or Davidson. Several coaches have remarked that Scott could go man-to-man against any of last year’s All-Americans. Charlie Scott has been a familiar face around Davidson ever since February 1965, when he was the guest of the nation. He averaged 29 points and 13 rebounds a game. Smith then made the big play, foreman. “We just think he’s a little confused, but we expect him to come here. He is normally obligated to do so.” This was Driesell's comment after hearing Charlie Scott, under the suggestion of his coach, began visiting schools. For the past six months, Scott had signed an athletic grant-in-aid with the University of North Carolina. “I’ve been thinking about this a long time,” Scott announced. “It was really a question of choosing between North Carolina or Davidson. Several coaches have remarked that Scott could go man-to-man against any of last year’s All-Americans. Charlie Scott has been a familiar face around Davidson ever since February 1965, when he was the guest of the nation. He averaged 29 points and 13 rebounds a game. Smith then made the big play, foreman.of the coaching staff at the Southern Conference Tournament. "When I saw Charlie about two weeks ago, he seemed very eager about coming to Davidson. He always told me he liked Chapel Hill and the Carolina schools, but Charlie still said he wanted to come to Davidson."

Scott attended Wildcat basketball camp here last summer and scrimmaged daily with other members of the varsity. All-American Fred Hetzel commented that Scott was good enough at that time to start for Davidson.

"All this came as quite a surprise to me," remarked freshman Leon Perry, a friend of Scott. "It's things like this that make college coaching so ridiculous to me," lamented Driesell. "We had built our recruiting around Scott. If he was going to change his mind, he should have told us earlier."

Scott was accepted here on the Early Decision plan in November, and he subsequently signed a Davidson letter-of-intent. Later he signed a grant-in-aid with the Wildcats.

"We're still waiting until May 17 when the national letter of intent (the binding one) is signed," continued Driesell. "Until then, we're not worried."

Scott is generally regarded as the top cage prospect in the state and the fifth-best catch in the nation.

Davidson Sailing Team Comes in Second

The Davidson sailing team was edged out for top honors in the South Atlantic Inter-Collegiate Sailing Association Spring Championships at Norfolk, Va., last Saturday. Old Dominion College erased a ten-point lead held by Davidson going into the last round to win the regatta by a slim two-point margin. Because of a shortage in boats, each team had one idle race, and so the 'Cats had to sit and watch the blow being dealt in the final round.

Old Dominion, with Pete Walleo leading the onslaught, won with 67 points. Davidson followed with 65 and Duke with 58. The Citadel and the University of South Carolina tied with 53 each. William and Mary took sixth place with 49, followed by the College of Charleston with 29.

In the A Division for the 'Cats, skipper Joe Gardner and crew Bob Murphy, replaced later by Yates Fletcher, took two second places, one third, two fourths, and a fifth. Skipper Chip Robertson and crew Chip Bellamy finished first three times, second once, and third twice in the B Division.

Chip Robertson said that the Davidson team has by far the best record of any team in the Association. This was the first meet that the 'Cats have not walked away with, and in this case, they were "just pushed out." He added that home waters and familiar boats increased the Old Dominion chances.

All day tomorrow the 'Cats will host the S.A.L.C.S.A. Single-Hand Championships at Lake Norman. The winner will represent the Association at the national single-hand meet. Of the six competitors in the association, who have been selected on the basis of past performances, Davidson has two in competition for the championship.

Golfers Eye Championship

By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

On Sunday the Wildcat golfers will embark for North Carolina’s golfing paradise, Southern Pines, in quest of the school’s fourth conference championship. Every conference member, including the recently added East Carolina Pirates, will furnish six golfers for two days of medal play. The teams will compete over the 7,000-yard-long Country Club of North Carolina. This tough course will demand long hitting to break its par of 72.

Dr. Tom Scott, who coaches the golf squad in addition to his duties as Athletic Director, said, "I'll wager we won't see many sub-par or par rounds."

From the top ten places of a year ago, six men will return to tee up on Tuesday morning. For Davidson last year, Doug McKeever was runner-up medalist, while Joe Jelks placed seventh. Virginia Tech, now an independent, copped last year's top honors as Davidson placed second.

W. VA. STRONG

This fact, however, does not establish the Wildcats as pre-tournament favorites. West Virginia, which has not played Davidson this year, is given the nod by Dr. Scott, who stated, "They are supposed to have four terrific sophomores who came up and replaced upperclassmen. I'd have to rate us next, and then George Washington and The Citadel.

"I haven't seen West Virginia, and the only comparison is that we beat GW 4-3, and they beat them 6-1. But we've played this course before and they haven't."

The golfers will play practice rounds on Monday. Starting time for the first foursome on Tuesday—the first day of competition—will be 9 a.m. The groups are arranged on the basis of their average scores and team ranking as submitted by each school. Six men are entered, and at the end of the two rounds, each school counts the scores of its lowest four men.

Jelks plays number one and is averaging only 73 strokes per round. McKeever, Champ Covington, Johnny Giles, George Leight, and George Brewer fill out the line-up, with Walter Daniels the alternate. Covington and Leight are the second and third low scorers, although Leight has participated in only three matches.

CONSISTENCY CITED

Dr. Scott commented that "George has been hitting the ball well, even though basketball kept him out of several matches. Everyone, though, is capable of playing good golf. They have played consistently, and we have faced mostly ACC teams. Giles and Brewer had a bad spurt, but they’re coming up now.

"It is good that they play consistent golf. The best thing that can happen to you is to have all your golfers bunched up after the first day. That way you have a better chance to win more team points and not have to depend on one or two men."

Jelks reiterated Dr. Scott's confidence in the Wildcats’ chances. "We're pretty confident. Of course, we don’t know how tough West Virginia is, but I think everyone is hitting the ball well."

PASADENA NEXT STOP

Giles voiced the same opinion and added, "Everyone is looking forward to this. The winner will get to go to Pasadena, Cal., for the NCAA championships."

With this goal before them, the Wildcats seek their first title since 1960. They have placed second twice in the dry spell since then. They also captured the crown in 1954 and 1958.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Take your good time going

Fly half-fare on Eastern via Florida. Florida swings in the spring — but it really swings in the summer. Lower off-season room rates are in effect. And Eastern will take you to Daytona or Ft. Lauderdale or even Miami for half-fare. So take a detour and enjoy it on your way home. Or go home first and down to Florida later. Just use your Eastern Youth ID card, or similar card from another airline. If you don’t have such a card, it’s a snap to get one—provided you're under 22 and can prove it. For the specifics, stop by a Travel Agent or any Eastern ticket office. Once you have your card, you can get an Eastern Jet Coach seat for half-fare. You can’t make an advance reservation. But if there’s a seat available at departure time, you can fly to any Eastern destination within the continental U.S. Including Florida.