Che Bauidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Time For A Change

With the teams of Coaches Lefty Driesell and Homer Smith, Davidson's athletic fortunes have reached heights undreamed of 10 years ago. The basketball team has become a national power and the footballers, while still no major threat to big-time teams, are at least respectable and no longer the laughing stock of the Southern Conference.

A corollary of losing athletic teams is dissatisfaction and the accompanying call for changes of one sort or another. Before Coach Smith’s coming to Davidson in 1965, there was considerable talk of withdrawing subsidization to football, which had not had a winning season in years. Today such talk is unheard of; the question of subsidized vs. non-subsidized athletics is apparently a dead one.

But it's not dead. And the fortunes of one’s teams have nothing to do with the rightness of the situation. Either it’s right or it’s wrong for a school of Davidson’s type to offer scholarships to athletes solely on how well they throw a football or dribble a basketball. We happen to think that it’s wrong. And we hope that the trustees, when they meet next month, will take firm action on the situation to bring policies of the Athletic Department in line with those of Davidson’s educational aims.

In going to a non-subsidized program during a winning period, the college can say as a small liberal arts school that it’s wrong for a student to receive a full scholarship solely on athletic prowess. It's been the experience of several Southern schools, such as Southwestern and Sewanee, that superior competition forced them into non-subsidized programs; they were driven by necessity. Davidson has proved that it can compete with schools its size and even bigger. Now is the time, while we're ahead, to take the step. Why wait until we have the same type of team Davidson had in the early 1960s, when we will have no choice?

Athletics, at least in a school of Davidson’s size and type, are for the education of the student body, not for big business, as is the case in large universities. When athletic teams reach the big-time and become as successful as Davidson's have, they can easily come to dominate other, more important aspects of the academic life. Such a situation does not exist here, but it is entirely possible that it may come in the future.

As a small, liberal arts college, Davidson should concentrate on competing with other schools of its own size and type, fielding teams of students who play solely from an enjoyment of the game and a pride in their school, not because they're receiving $1,800 a year to play.

We are interested in seeing Davidson grow, as are the trustees. A progressive athletic policy would be a major step forward in making the college one of the outstanding liberal arts schools in the country, of which so much is heard.

A Vital Improvement

This week’s chapel speakers may not have indicated any significant improvement over past years, but the chapel environment has infinitely improved. The new J. Spencer Love Auditorium will undoubtedly be one of the most valuable physical improvements to the college plant for years to come (barring the possibility of a new library, of course).

Its designers have succeeded in constructing an auditorium that is functional, attractive and comfortable. It is in the expanded range of functions that the greatest benefit will come to the college. Only now is there a location with adequate seating for the entire student body that is suitable for such programs as full-scale theatrical productions and films. The large stage and improved dressing rooms would do credit to any theater, as would the new sound and lighting systems. Equally important are improved conditions for the audience — padded seats (without hymnbook racks, even), air conditioning, the absence of glaring sunlight.

But all is not well. One minor improvement would be to have at least some light on the speaker’s face, as well as in front and behind him. More serious is the defect that became painfully obvious during Tuesday’s assembly: The bell mechanisms emit a series of painful groans, to the embarrassment of the speaker. It seems there should be more subtle and equally effective ways of informing a speaker that his time is up.

Sunshine

This week’s ray of sunshine: Seniors worried about what to do Homecoming (if indeed anyone does) need worry no more. Your problems are solved. While others sleep Friday night off Saturday morning and while others watch The Citadel march to defeat Saturday afternoon, a number of more fortunate members of the Class of ’67 will be determining their future, in the form of the Graduate Record Exam. Apparently such a coincidence (?) is unavoidable. (With only three home games, there’s not much leeway in determining when Homecoming will fall.) But alas, remember you'll appreciate what’s left even more. A comforting thought.

But On The Inside

Anyone taking his first look at the 1966-67 reference catalogue might think a long-needed overhaul had been made. The new cover and altered format suggest change, but closer inspection reveals that this is as deep as the change goes. One could argue whether the external changes are an improvement; we happen to think not, though they may appeal to others. But it is senseless to undertake such an extensive project and leave the actual content of the book virtually untouched, particularly in light of the significant changes undergone at Davidson in the past years.

The most obvious inclusion is the defense of the vespers service. Copy for the book doubtless has to be made up in the spring, well ahead of publication, but at the same time, a change of such importance deserves special treatment in order to make the book correct. On page 45, one finds references to the Red and Black Masquers, which were just reorganized in Spring 1966. Likewise, reference to rush regulations are incorrect, and there are a number of minor inaccuracies, all adding up to a sloppy book.

The reference catalogue goes out to virtually every high school guidance office in the East and is often a high school senior’s main source of information about the college. The college would do well to put more into the content of next year's edition and concentrate less on its appearance.

Stop

Despite talk of the Industrial Revolution coming to Davidson (in forms such as the General Time plant), the town is still a hamlet, isolated from the mainstream of commerce in the area. Consequently, such devices as traffic lights serve no useful function, other than as a source of consternation for motorists who must often wait 20 seconds at a light, during which traffic is virtually nonexistent. Devices such as flashing caution and stop lights or even simple stop signs would function just as well as stop lights, without causing any traffic congestion.

Dear Editor:

Rev. Russell Montford gave an enjoyable and quick-witted address in chapel Monday. His somewhat satirical analysis of Playboy magazine kept his audience awake, and his quick wrap-up in favor of the traditional Christian ethic gave one time to get to Mary’s before third period.

However, I feel that in his address he was superficial and unfair in his criticism of the magazine. Certainly, if one reads only the advertisements, the all-too-present features on the latest fashion and the occasional story of liquors and cheese, he would come to believe that the editorial approach of Playboy was shallow and appealed to the less substantial values in society. However, if one reads the magazine with greater care, he finds that this is not true.

Playboy contains such additional features as the monthly “Playboy Interview." This feature, with its candid interviews of such figures as Timothy Leary, Dylan Thomas and Ralph Ginzburg, allows these men to bring their views before the public without unfair slant or bias.

Playboy does have its weaknesses. It is often guilty of attempting to build only an image. It also has its strengths, for it is one of the few national publications which are willing to promote or publicize a new or unconventional attitude or idea. This willingness to seek the truth even where it does not seem to conform to traditional or accepted beliefs has always been cherished as a virtue among men who esteem intellectual excellence. Perhaps if Rev. Montford would read further, he would join his Episcopal colleagues in defending Hef's bunny.

JOHNNY GRESHAM Davidson College

Change Requested In Library Hours

Dear Editor:

While I realize that there are many ailments and problems on this campus that most would consider more serious, one problem has reared its ugly head in these first weeks of school, a problem which weighs upon the heads of all. I refer, of course, to the Sunday library hours. Inasmuch as the Vespers farce has been ended, and inasmuch as Hattie’s is closed all day Sunday (as is the Anchor), there seems little for one to do on the day of rest other than spend one’s time in the library.

At the present time Sunday hours for the library are 2-5 p.m. and 8:30-12 p.m. This seems a bit anachronistic. Why not leave the library open between 5 p.m.and 8:30 p.m.? Of course, if such a move would mean that we would have to cut any part of our subsidized athletic program to obtain the funds necessary to keep the library open during these hours, I would have to withdraw my request. 

GEOFF SEAMANS
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

ORDAN

Everett Jordan, 

Malamud’s ‘The Fixer’ Echoes Russian Themes

A Review By SAM DARBY
Staff Writer

“I am in history, yet not in it. In a way of speaking I am far out. It passes by me. Is this good, or is it something lacking in my character? What a question! Of course lacking but what can I do about it? And besides is this really such a great worry? Best to say where one is, unless he has something in his life. He understood history and also because he had ideas to give it. Nobody can burn an idea even if they burn the man. On the other hand there was the activist, Jan de Witt, Spinoza’s friend and benefactor, a good and great man who was torn to pieces by the Dutch mob who were suspicious of him although he was innocent. Who needs such a fate?"

Is it that most Russians are lonely people or simply that so many books about Russians concern lonely people? Pasternak, Dostoyevsky, Chekov—they all wrote about men searching for an identity. One wonders if all Russians have the same longings. The quoted passage could be from any of the Russian writers, but it is from The Fixer, a new book by Bernard Malamud. The fixer is a Russian Jew who was imprisoned for a murder he did not commit. Yakov Bok is a sensitive man who gave up his religion in search of a historical identity. He was poor and lived by repairing things (thus the title) in an attempt to support himself and his wife. When she left him, he traveled to Kiev, hoping to learn about life and perhaps to prosper. Through a rather incredible sequence of events he became the manager of a brick factory in a non-Jewish sector of the city. When a small boy was murdered in a cave nearby, he was arrested and accused of killing the boy as part of a Jewish ritual. He then began his three years imprisonment in which he found a self-realization through injustice. The book ends triumphantly not because he was freed, but because he discovered himself. The theme is universal. In the very name Bok we find an allusion to Job. He did not have to be Russian or Jewish—he could have been a Puerto Rican living in the West Side of New York and the result would have been the same: the theme would still come through. All that is needed is a minor social being, the victim of social injustice. However, Malamud seems to be writing in the Russian tradition. From Yakov's search for identity to the tedious descriptions of his imprisonment, there are continuous echoes from the great Russian writers. His style has evidently not yet matured. Sometimes he handles words well, as when Yakov was thinking about his fate: “And from him to his daughter with the crippled leg was only one crippled step, and then another into the brickyard. And a crippled hop into jail.” But at other times Malamud presses his luck, as with “After his manacled march through the snowy streets, the mutterings of the crowd, and the terrible...” Fortunately his flights of alliteration are not numerous, and most of the book is written in straightforward prose. This book will not soar in popularity, but neither will it be forgotten. It is a contemporary work on an ageless theme that will be studied by generations to come.

By Olson

The Gospel According To John
By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

This Makes It Worth It

There comes a time when you really do know it’s worthwhile and that’s why it's important to stick with it. Few things strike us with the force that is held by one’s entrance into the final year of college. Everyone must approach the last year with mixed feelings which neither speak loudly enough to be clearly audible nor remain quiet enough to allow us to forget them.

BY THIS TIME we are aware of our capabilities and our limitations. Somehow setting the world on fire may not be quite as important as it once was. Or is it that we have forgotten? Have we forgotten the anticipation with which we embarked upon our college education, the drive, the desire? I think not. The senior has just become a little more realistic in his outlook. His drive and desire may be greater than ever before. But now the import of all his hopes and dreams is drawn into a much more concrete perspective than he has known. The change is a gradual one, but its impact may be very sudden. The considerations you, as a senior, must take into account are no longer to be held in abeyance with the hope you won’t have to decide in the end. Now you have to make your own decisions, and even deciding which graduate school to attend will bind you more than ever to your life’s vocation.

I WONDER how many of us realize what we leave behind? We no longer are allowed to place ourselves at the mercy of imagination and emerge atop a different dream every day. We have gone beyond the “you can never go home again stage.” The “Sophomore Slump” is behind us, and the era of argument and protest is gone with the junior year. What is left for the senior to keep him stirring and make his the best year of all? I think that the “senior attitude” is what is most important. This is a great part of what makes one’s college education so meaningful. When you have progressed this far things about the College assume a very different meaning, contrasting sharply the attitudes you once may have held about them. When you are a senior your lot is cast with Davidson College, and you begin to discover that it really is a pretty fine place to get an education. You see its problems, so many problems. Yet the problems are no longer something to sit around and gripe about or even get up and protest over. Now the problems are something to be concerned over. The concern must express itself in a search for some kind of solution in the area of one’s interest.

WE ALL RECOGNIZE that every place has its problems, and Davidson is no exception. But as seniors we are able for a moment to look beyond these disruptions to the potential and spirit of the place where we study. For once we begin to realize that the long hours of study, the short weekends and the failures and successes we have known are all a part of making us appreciate “the Davidson experience.” It is this concern and respect which makes us glad to be a part of Davidson College and at the same time recognize our indebtedness to it. Now we are able to point with real pride toward our College. We know finally that there is much we would change, but there is much more well worth retaining and being proud of. We know why “it was worth it” when a little extra effort (or maybe a whole lot) brought us a feeling of accomplishment. We know now why people are willing to spend their lives trying to make Davidson College a better place to get an education. We know why people are interested in coming back here after graduation for things like Homecoming. We know what it means to say with pride, “I go to Davidson.” More important, we know in our own minds that we have, at last, something of a very personal understanding of what constitutes this pride.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by students of Davidson College during the school year, except during examination periods and holidays.

Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BILL OLSON
BOB TRAVERS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL WATSON
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID
JOHN VISER

Photographer:
MIKE JOHNSON

Assistant Business Manager:
CHARLES BROCKWELL

Advertising Manager:
DANNY WHITE

Circulation Manager:
GEORGE ROBINSON

Contributors this week:
Bruce Weihe, Marvin Ellison, Al Varner, Bob Pyeatt, Carter Fussell, Cameron Ferguson, Bill Graham, Ed Embree, Rob Powell, Jim Cooley, Terry Sonnanstine, John Barber, Gary Sigmon, John Williams, Chuck Green, Frank Anderson, Joe Saunders, George Cretekos, John Frick, Sam Aycock, Lewis Lavine.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 219, Davidson, N. C., 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.