November 11, 1966 The Davidsonian Page Four

Morris To Assume Post At Mississippi

By BOB BUCHANAN
Staff Writer

The Rev. J. William Morris, rector of St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, will leave Davidson Nov. 28, to become the Episcopal
chaplain at the University of Mississippi, he announced this week. Morris said that he was very excited about the move.
“At Mississippi I will be part of a team ministry. There is an ecumenical movement on the campus with nearly
all denominations participating. All chaplains will have their offices in the same building and will all be working together.”

Although somewhat concerned about the race question in Oxford, Morris feels that a more desirable situation exists there than in
Davidson. “After the riots in 1962, the entire community, both white and colored, realized that something had to be done.
They are now doing it.”

Morris, originally from Cleveland, Ohio, received his BA from Duke University and attended the Episcopal Theological Seminary of the Southwest
in Austin, Tex. From there he came to Davidson where he has been for the last five and one half
years.

Over this period Morris said that he has noticed two big changes in Davidson College. The first concerns the student
body. “Davidson has become more sensitive to student pressures. As a result of this, the student body has become much
more responsible. More is expected of the students in the field of college policies, and the students have responded.”

Connected with this is Morris’ noticing a certain liberalization of the college. “Davidson has become much less provincial. It is
now freer; it has a more open atmosphere. Davidson is more aware of the nation and in turn, the nation
is more aware of Davidson.”

Morris thinks that the main difference between Davidson and Mississippi will be the size and diversity of the student bodies.

Debating Team Opens With Loss At Emory

Beginning their second season under Coach Ray McMillan, Davidson's varsity debaters competed last weekend in Emory University’s Peachtree Invitational Debates,
one of the largest tournaments in the South. The tournament recognized senior Greg Haynes as one of its top 10
speakers. Haynes and junior Tom Rhodes finished with a 4-4 record and ninth place in the point standings. Sophomores Fletcher
Hartsell and Jim Cooley, entering their first varsity competition as a team, could manage only two wins against six losses.
Rhodes, president of the Davidson Debate Club, remarked “toughest competition we have ever come up against.”

The freshman debaters opened their season with a novice tournament at Appalachian State Teachers’ College last weekend. The affirmative team
of Mac Hobby and Robert Pyeatt finished with a 4-2 record. Daniel Spencer and Peter Leo, debating negatively, won three
and lost three. McMillan indicated that he was “pleased with the freshman enthusiasm.” The novice team will travel to the
University of Georgia next weekend. The varsity teams, with Shep Johnston filling in for Haynes, will leave Thursday for another
tournament at the University of South Carolina.

Handbook Election To Be Held

Elections to fill the position of editor of the 1967-68 Wildcat Handbook will be held week after next. Two juniors,
Bruce Weihe and Bill Schmickle, have already filed for the position and were approved as candidates by the Publications Board
Monday afternoon. Opportunity for other interested students to file for the position are remaining open. Experience on the handbook's staff
is not a necessary qualification for running.

“The consensus of the board was that the editorship should not be limited to staff members, particularly for this particular
publication, since technical ability is not as much a requisite as it is for some of the other publications,” according
to Louis Lesesne, board chairman. Students interested in running for the position should contact the present editor, Alva Whitehead, in
time to have their names submitted to the board before its meeting Wednesday.

Price Rise Produces Activities Budget Hike

Increased costs of printing and engraving for student publications have resulted in a rise in the student activities budget, but
the extra cost will be paid from the regular college budget instead of by increasing the $25 fee charged students.
According to Robert A. Currie, college business manager and treasurer, the total amount requested added up to $27,291. This would
be $27.41 per student. However, only $26,175 was allocated. This amount is to be divided between THE DAVIDSONIAN, The Miscellany,
the Wildcat Handbook, Quips and Cranks, the Artist Series and the Student Council.

The budget shows a $1,500 increase from last year. Even though all the money requested could not be granted, Currie
commented that essentially everybody received what they wanted. Denied were funds for running a bus to Charlotte for social and
sports events. Currie said that the funds were refused, not because the committee in charge was unsympathetic, but because operating
the bus should not be part of the student activity fee. Currie also said that sometime in the future the
Artist Series and The Miscellany might be placed under the general college budget, as has been done already with forensic
and drama organizations.

Let's Dress up La Roma

The Concert Weekend. Let Us Help By Cleaning Your Clothes And Washing Your Shirts.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across From Gulf Station — Main St.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY

Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —

La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rdthat Date Ristoranti Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Plotting the directions of the new French theater, Dr. Wallace Fowlie, professor of French at Duke University, spoke informally to
students on Monday afternoon. In defining the new movement, Fowlie said that the estrangement of characters from the world is
one of the central themes of the new theater. “The refusal of the characters to carry on coherent dialogue” is
an important part of this alienation, Fowlie said.

Earlier Monday, Fowlie described the works of the major dramatists of the new theater, principally Eugene Ionesco, Samuel Beckett, and
Jean Genet, in a lecture during chapel period. Fowlie elaborated on these authors’ revolt from the use of accepted staging
techniques and the use of absurd situations and bizarre props. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Ex-Convict Tells Story Of Life’s Rehabilitation

Bill Sands, former convict and current rehabilitator, challenged the student body in Tuesday's chapel with his life and message. Receiving
a rare standing ovation from his listeners, Sands fascinated his audience for a full 40 minutes and afterwards at the
coffee hour. The story of his own life and the death of Caryl Chessman composed most of the speech.

Although the son of a California judge and enjoying the comforts of upper-class life, Sands was sent to reform school
at age 17 for armed robbery with an unloaded gun. At 19 he began serving two life sentences for “several
armed robberies, running gunfights with the police, and several assaults with intent to kill.” It took only 30 days in
San Quentin for him to witness his first prison murder. Not yet “con-wise,” he simply stood there, while 6,000 other
convicts, wise to vendettas of prison life, turned their backs. Being questioned about the identity of the killer, he delivered
his first and last prison quip: “It was some guy wearing a grey suit." Solitary confinement took the humor out
of him. When released he weighed 145 pounds, down from 206, had 33 broken bones, and had lost all his
teeth. Later he participated in a riot at San Quentin in which 50 convicts were machine-gunned. The National Guard could
not quell the riot, but one man, Clinton T. Duffy, could. This man, the new warden, changed the whole situation
for Sands by saying “I care.”

“I sewed up three life sentences in three years and 47 years of parole in two years,” Sands stated, expressing
gratitude for Duffy’s influence. “Chessman learned two things that need to be learned. He learned to face the truth and
to be compassionate,” Sands said. Sands concluded with an impassioned plea for the end of capital punishment. “It is up
to educated men like you” to stop the killing of men who can be rehabilitated, Sands said.

Out of prison, Sands enjoyed life but was still dissatisfied. Wanting to do something about inmates, he formed the Seven
Step Foundation, made up solely of convicts. The only member of the Foundation who has not been a convict is
Duffy. Being an ex-con, Sands can cross many barriers which hold up ministers and other counselors.

Sands ended his talk with a narration of his friendship with Caryl Chessman and of his death. Chessman, alleged perpetrator
of sex crimes, reveals certain failings of the prison system and what Sands attempts to communicate to convicts. Sands was
Chessman's cellmate for two years and became convinced that Chessman was innocent. “Anyone can tell you if his brother is
a sex deviate. I tell you Chessman was not,” Sands continued. Chessman in 1960 was a totally different man from
the Chessman of 1948. The state of California executed the same body and killed a different man.

STEAK 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. Phone ED 2-2414

This ad, with your Davidson student ID card, will entitle you to a 20% discount on pipe (only) purchases.

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL

Welcome Davidson Students to the GOLD MINE

* Prepared To Your Discriminating Taste
* Served with choice of baked or French Fried Potatoes, Gold Mine Salad, and Garlic Roll

DELICIOUS FLAMING STEAKS

SPECIAL! 15¢ OFF on a Chicken Dinner

Davidson 217 N. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N.C. Phone 375-9723

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted DINING AND DANCING 5100 N. Tryon St. Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

HOUSE

SANDWICHES & SEAFOOD PLATTERS From 59c to $1.39

GOLD MINE FLAMING STEAKS COLISEUM SHOPPING CENTER 3714 EAST INDEPENDENCE BOULEVARD

You have to see it... and taste it. Words can’t catch the flavor of Shoney’s Hot Fudge Cake. Two devil’s
food layers and vanilla ice cream with hot fudge and plenty of whipped cream. And a cherry on top. Devilishly
good.

Shoney’s

“Coca-Cola” and “Coke” are registered trademarks which identify only the product of The Coca-Cola Company.

Oh-oh, better check the punch bowl. Ice-cold Coca-Cola makes any campus “get-together” a party. Coca-Cola has the taste you never
get tired of. Always refreshing. That’s why things go better with Coke... after Coke... after Coke. Bottled under the authority
of The Coca-Cola Company by: Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Concord, Concord, North Carolina.
