Page Six October 14, 1966 The Davidsonian

DEPENDS ON CREATIVITY
High Grades Do Not Yield Success

Two recent surveys, one by a New York researcher and another by a team of University of Utah professors, have revealed that there is no direct relationship between high grades in college and professional success in later life. Dr. [name], director of student counseling at Davidson, replied that he was not surprised at the test findings. Dr. Eli Ginzberg of New York studied a group of 342 graduate students who attended Columbia University between 1944 and 1950. Their success was measured 14 years after the completion of their studies.

(Snalt Photo by Olson)

BOMBS A GO GO
Fred Ehler Says Blood Must Flow.

The findings showed that students who had graduated from college with high scholastic hopes were more likely to be in the "lower professional levels" than the average students. The University of Utah survey showed that there is almost no relationship between the grades a medical student gets and his later performance. One of the most common theories attempting to explain these findings is an overemphasis on grades which tends to destroy interest in learning for its own sake. Hight was asked to give his reactions and remarks to these findings and their relationship to Davidson.

The Project of the Americas program was to inform the American people of the conditions in Latin America. Fred Ehlers and his group of visiting Latin Americans presented the chapel program. PRAM is an independent student organization whose purpose is to increase inter-American understanding. It was founded by Fred Ehlers, a former Richardson scholar at Davidson. The first speaker, Patricio Pazmino of Ecuador, introduced the other members who were present. He said the purpose of the visit was to get to understand the Americans, and to get the Americans to understand us. They now apparently have a good idea about the American way of life because they have seen "exciting New York City," Greenwich Village, slum areas, and some colleges. He went on to advocate a better distribution of crops in his own country, such as not depending heavily on bananas. He said it would take 300 years to reach a stage equal to the present North American standard of living.

The next speaker, Leslie Brown, a Davidson junior, spoke on his stay in Ecuador. He said that he sympathized with their "Yankee go home" slogans and blamed these on the impressions that American tourists make on the people there. Brown said that he attempted to meet the people of all the elements of the local society there, including certain members of "houses of ill repute."

The last speaker was the international director and spokesman of the project, Fred Ehlers of Ecuador, a Richardson Scholar of two years ago. Calling himself a part of a generation of fear in which atomic bombs and the Go Go music go together, he proudly stated that Latin America is one of the most important areas of the world, and that the project of the Americas would tell America "who we (Latin America) are and what we want." He advocated the use of ideas.

Cumming Tells History Of Carolina With Maps

Dr. William P. Cumming received a request from the North Carolina Department of Archives and History to write a book on the development of North Carolina in maps. "The purpose first outlined," he said, "was that it be a children's book." However, Cumming found material which warranted changing it into a more scholarly work. North Carolina in Maps, published by the State Department of Archives and History in August, is a series of 15 selected maps which appeared between 1585 and 1896.

Cumming's interest in cartography covers a period of some time—since his honeymoon with Mrs. Cumming in London in 1933. "Mrs. Cumming and I," he remembered, "were walking down a London street when I noticed an old map of North and South Carolina in the door of a print shop." The map had a desert in western North Carolina and a large lake over most of western South Carolina. "I knew, of course," he continued, "that this was not accurate."

Burts Praises Success Of Academic Warning

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. this week praised the success of the academic warning system. Under the system, at each mid-semester and semester grading period, any student who fails to carry 12 hours and quality points is required to report to the office of the Dean of Students for consultation. Burts emphasized the contrast between the present program and the old system of "academic probation," which imposed certain restrictions on students having unsatisfactory grades.

"Academic warning," Burts said, "represents a very different philosophy from the old system of academic probation. Under the old system, a student carrying 15 hours could fail two courses, make two Cs and one B and still be all right as far as academic probation was concerned. Since the old restrictions have been eliminated, the major responsibility rests with the student. We say to the student, 'Your work is unsatisfactory for the time. We trust you will take whatever steps are necessary to remedy the situation.' This is more effective at mid-semester because then there is time to do something."

Burts added that in addition to a conference with the student, he can take "any other action that might be called for." He said that about half of his working time for the first two weeks was required for the initial conference with the 80-125 students who are normally given academic warning. Burts emphasized that action does not stop with the conference in his office. "We have counseled with the students to identify anything that's wrong and to eliminate the conditions causing this trouble. Some are referred to Dr. William B. Hight, Director of Student Counseling, some to the reading laboratory, and some to their faculty advisor. The whole emphasis is on what can be done to help the individual because we believe that Davidson has an obligation to him." He again emphasized, however, that the major responsibility was the student's. "We believe that every student here is capable of doing the work, or he wouldn't be here."

Davidsonian Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAIKOK
BOB REID

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photographers:
BILL OLSON
CAPLOGTALA
LLOYD HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
JAKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
EDWIN VIEER

Contributors this week:
Leslie Brown, Bill Graham, Carver Fussell, Tom Eddleman, George Robinson, Duke Overbey, Charles Elliott, Dan Sewell, Gus Duke, Danny White, Chip Robertson, Bob Dunham, George Creason, Louis Living, Rick Barton, Bob Buchanan, Marcy Bethune, Franklin Ames, Dan Graham, Bruce Wells, Woody Gleason, William Farca, Greg Sligo, Ken Hustlin, Tom Waverley, Johnnie Rowe, Robert Pyatt, Ken Cool, Marvin Eftson, Cac Gruen, Jim Coates, and Hayward Whitwell.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 210, Davidson, N.C., 28036.Many of those, of course, are not doing the work. The ones who need help the most are sometimes the most unresponsive to our efforts. The dean stated, however, that he was convinced of the effectiveness of the program despite its faults. "It is an effective program because it identifies those who need help and offers the help of the college to them," he said.

"My real purpose," Cumming continued, "in North Carolina in Maps is to represent the westward movement of the frontier as shown by the increased accuracy of maps."

W. P. CUMMING

"There's an old saying about two students," Hight said. "The boys who make A's become professors; the boys who make B's become managers; and the boys who make C's make money." Hight said these findings were not surprising because professional success does not demand the same things that academic success demands. He said that in college if the student follows the prescribed course there is little room for creativity; this is one of the failures of higher education. But the student can make a place for himself in life. "Academic success depends on how well you can follow. Success in later life depends on how well you can create," Hight emphasized.

He stated that in selecting boys for admission to Davidson, the admissions committee tries to select those who will fit in and succeed. He said that Davidson students will succeed because they are so highly selected. They do not present a true picture of the normal population of the average college. He cited several examples of past Davidson honor students who had achieved success in later life. Hight continued, "We don't seek out the high school rebel. Neither do graduate schools." "The students who excel find a niche for themselves because they are a 'fit in' group. The 'looser living' C student will go out on his own. He is less inhibited. He is not looking for directions to follow. He is freer to be more creative."

This was pointed out by Bett that people with good minds develop the faculty of handing back to the teacher what the teacher wants. But the rebel in the classroom will not consider this important. But in adapting learning to life, the rebel may be more successful. Hight agreed that there is too much emphasis on grades. "But what other basis do you have for judging," he said, "except for the common denominators such as the college board scores and the graduate record exams and law exams." Hight stated that in judging a boy's admission to Davidson, he would take the subjective view of a principal or teacher over the student's academic record. He said that you can't predict a student's success. The admissions committee knows nothing of the student's personality, his motivation to excel, his joy and enthusiasm for life, his competitive spirit, or his ability to regurgitate facts. "The Lord doesn't judge until the final day, and far be it from me to presume on his prerogative," Dr. Hight commented. "That's why I'm a counselor, I'm not a judge. I seek to bind up the wounds."

PRAM Explains Its Purpose

Instead of machine guns, though he later said the only way was a bloody revolution. The Project of the Americas contains 15 college chapters in the U.S. It plans on a $200,000 budget for next year. Its purpose is "to create a new American conscience" and to give an opportunity for student leaders to travel and come to understand other peoples before these leaders become leaders of their countries. The program has no relation to a government or church, being the only organization of its kind established and run by college-age young people. Ehlers went on to tell of his country, a country of immense wealth, yet misery. Many are illiterate in his country, disease is widespread, and many live practically under serfdom. His country has a tradition of "historical exploitation." He advocated "historical action," revolution which will bring justice paid for by blood and violence. He advocated wars of independence because he said democracy in Latin America is only democracy on paper. According to Ehlers this revolution will not violate election procedure, human rights, or freedom of the press, for these are "nonexistent." He didn't advocate these freedoms, but instead advocated a revolution against free enterprise, capitalism, and the status quo. His people aren't afraid of communism, but instead are "afraid of the present." Ehlers asked if the U.S. would help his bloody revolution or the present "exploitation." He said that the U.S. can't put out all the fires in Latin America, Asia, and Africa. What he wants is a "Latin America for Latin America," without the interference of "Washington or Moscow." Ehlers stated that liberty is just a name for two-thirds of humanity, and that he was going back to his country to fight. Although he had just stated that he didn’t want Washington’s influence in Latin America, he concluded with, "Here is my hand America, let us work together."

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristorante

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristorante
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. off Remount Rd.

SHONEY’S DRIVE-IN
Home Of The BIG BOY
Bring Your Date Here For Some of OUR FAMOUS STRAWBERRY PIE
10 Per Cent Discount to D.C. Students WITH STUDENT CARDS
FIVE LOCATIONS
800 E. Morehead
3400 Plaza
3701 E. Independence Blvd.
Franklin & New Hope Rd.—Gastonia, N.C.
1243 Cherry Rd—Rock Hill, S.C.
To Serve You!

Twenty-five ROTC Students To Get DMS Awards

Twenty-five seniors in the advanced ROTC program have been designated Distinguished Military Students, Maj. Robert N. Crittenden, ROTC Adjutant, has announced. Professor of Military Science Colonel F. B. Outlaw will present awards and certificates to the 15 Distinguished Military Students taking ROTC the first semester during drill October 18; the other 10 will receive their awards at the first drill of the second semester. A total of 783 students are enrolled in ROTC this year, the highest number ever enrolled at Davidson. All those chosen Distinguished Military Students will be offered a commission in the Regular Army. To qualify as a Distinguished Military Student, a student must be a senior who has been outstanding in ROTC the previous year, be in the upper half of his academic class and be in the upper one-third of his military class. He may elect a commission in the Regular Army or in the Army Reserve.

Distinguished Military Students for 1966-67 include Hobs Alina, Tom Brown, Jr., Joe Buffington, Sam Cathey, Henry Cochran, Norman Cole, Gary DeVane, Charles Edwards, Julian Fite, Scott Gabrielson, Rick Graham, Johnny Gresham, Joe Jelka, Rick Moore, Jr., Drew Morris, E.V. Joe Obenshain, Peter Ort, Mac Otts, III, Jim Ponce, II, Jimmy Poole, Bill Puckett, Bud Purcell, Bill Rukard, Jr., Charles Taylor, and Bill Webb, Jr.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Russell Stover Candies
Davidson, N.C.

The Hub
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Pipe Smokers
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe and tobacco purchases.
The Hub
131 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte
Phone 375-9723

Hold that crease? You bet it will, if the fabric is one of the great, new permanent-press blends of 2-ply polyester and cotton masterminded by Galey & Lord. For the new dimension in collegiate slacks, look to Galey & Lord.