Page Four September 30, 1966 The Davidsonian

Expanding Davidson Faces Housing Crisis

The housing shortage in Davidson, which has posed problems in the past, appears to be more critical this year than ever before. With the advent of hundreds of workers who will be hired by the new General Time Corporation factory, there could be a great increase in the population of Davidson, which is now just under 3,000 including students. There are simply no houses to meet this need and most of the new workers will have to live outside Davidson.

“Davidson is typical of a lot of small towns,” commented Robert A. Currie, college treasurer and business manager. “There is no one to meet the need for new houses. Most people here like to handle their own construction.

“It is hard to find rental houses, though, even in Charlotte,” he continued. “And the college is certainly not in the business of building houses to rent to anyone. We have enough trouble providing for all the faculty. The more houses others rent, the tighter it is on us.”

In elaborating on the faculty housing program, Currie stated that many years ago the college rented houses to all the professors. Because of an increased faculty, in 1955 the college loaned out money on the Morgan Loan Program to encourage faculty members to build their own homes. Due to the increase from 800 to 1,000 students in 1960, increased sabbaticals and foreign study programs for the professors and the annual retirement rate, the need for new houses presents itself every year.

“Last spring we built three houses, bought two and renovated one as a duplex,” stated Currie. “The new chaplain will have to rent a house in Cornelius temporarily, and at present we have no house for the new assistant business manager. Both these men will join the faculty very soon.

“We wish that some private capital would come into Davidson and help meet this housing shortage, especially by providing nicer units for the married students, but there appears to be little chance for this in the foreseeable future,” Currie said.

Richardson Scholars Introduced

The Richardson scholars introduced themselves to the student body in chapel Tuesday. Each student spoke briefly on his impressions of the United States and on his country. The scholars were impressed by computer dating, Americans’ warmth and understanding for tourists and the immense size of the country. The students also commented favorably on Davidson's student-professor relationships. Objections to Davidson included the lack of girls on campus and the school's drinking policy.

The students made a few remarks on their country’s educational, economic and political position. Of the 14 foreign students, 12 are on full Richardson scholarships, which were established in 1958. The program was originally directed by the late Dr. Bradley Thompson. Now, Dr. John D. Kelton is serving as advisor for the students.

The foreign students are Michael Gwilyn and Roger Ward from Great Britain, Henri Dardel and Francis Gayte from France, Takehiko Yokoseki and Susumo Takebe from Japan, and Ahmet Saracoglu from Turkey. Also, Wade Quinn from Nicaragua, Pablo Paez from Ecuador, Jan Gunning from the Netherlands, David Elisha from West Pakistan, Anders Lindhagen from Sweden, Gunnar Magnus from Norway and Jurgen Schlunk from Germany.

Discrepancy Discussed In Student Pay Rates

Questions have plagued the instigation of the new federally supported work-study program at Davidson. The main controversy concerns the varying pay rates now received by student employees. Holders of work-study jobs are being paid $1.25 an hour, while those employed in regular jobs receive $1.00 an hour.

In explaining these discrepancies, H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, pointed out several reasons for the difference between pay rates. First, White noted, under the work-study program, 90 per cent of the funds come from a federal grant, while the college finances the other 10 per cent. Under this agreement, the college is expected to set a minimum rate of $1.25 an hour to holders of work-study jobs. White also pointed out that while the work-study program is subsidized by the government, there is no other agency involved in the college's regular work program.

In justifying this difference in pay rates, White said that the new work-study program has made jobs available to every student with financial need that has not been met in other ways. Asked about the possibility of raising the rate of pay for regular jobs, he said that due to the addition of the work-study program, the college has already been able to grant, in most cases, a 33⅓ per cent increase over last year, but there were no plans for a further increase in the near future.

Trustees’ Role Called That Of Student Body

Workmen were busy this week expanding the facilities of the Business Office, to make room for Robert J. Stephenson, who will assume the job of assistant business manager next week. The office previously occupied by Business Manager Robert A. Currie is being cut into two, and the hall between the Business Office and the Bursar’s Office is being closed off to make still another office. The hall office is only temporary and will be opened again to pedestrian traffic in several months. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Student Council Seeks Extended Library Use

By BRUCE WEIHE
Staff Writer

Steps to keep the library and Union game room open on Sunday, as well as an addition to the Davidson recreational program, a scuba diving course, were presented at the Student Council meeting Monday night.

Tom Earnhardt, second vice-president, introduced his personalized recruiting system. In such a program, Davidson students would take an active part in drawing North Carolina and South Carolina students to Davidson.

In other business, Bill Watson reported on the scuba lessons, saying that William Wolff, an instructor from Charlotte, would handle the lessons held in the college pool. After initial beginners’ lessons, long-range plans call for proposed field trips. The program has been approved by Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director, and Wolff will handle his own advertising and furnish his own tank suits.

Student fees will be $18 for the one-month course with two lessons a week. Students will be responsible for their own masks, flippers and snorkel. Watson said that there will be a meeting Tuesday for all students interested in the course at 7 p.m. in the Green Room of the Union. Classes will probably begin Thursday, according to Wolff.

FIELD TRIP

Wolff plans to have a field trip after the course is over at a 40-50 foot deep spring near Statesville if weather permits. If the lessons are continued throughout the year, another field trip will be held in the spring. Wolff formerly taught a scuba class here in 1962, and now teaches at the Charlotte YWCA. Watson also reported that he hopes to have a judo-karate expert come to Davidson for a similar program.

SUNDAY CLOSING

Freshman Council Explained

Freshman Council listened to the opportunities available to it for planning social activities for the fall social calendar at its second regular meeting Wednesday night at the College Union.

Freshman Advisor Bill Rikard noted that the dates of Oct. 22 and Nov. 5 were available for freshman activities. Opportunities and resources for freshman activities were pointed out by Ben King, Peter Parrott, C. Shaw Smith and Tom Covington. They explained several traditional activities and suggested other successful activities used by past freshmen classes, telling the council that its creative efforts will determine the success or failure of the freshman year at Davidson.

Before adjourning the meeting, Rikard listed the six committees that will function within the Freshman Council this year. The committees are the social committee, transportation committee, orientation evaluation committee, athletic committee, rush committee and Freshman Parent’s Day committee. Rikard also read dates pertaining to freshman activities. He noted that the Freshman-Sophomore Field Day will be held Oct. 26 and that Freshman Parent's Day will be Nov. 12.

Peter Nicholls Explains Textbook Shortage

As classes resumed this year, many students found that they would be sharing textbooks for an indefinite period of time. Peter Nicholls, manager of the Student Store, blamed the textbook shortage on both a nationwide shortage and the problem of deciding how many books to order for each subject.

“Recent government expansion of funds into education,” stated Nicholls, “has led to the purchase of more new editions. Colleges which before could afford only older editions or second-hand books will no longer accept these books because of the government funds.”

Nicholls indicated that publishers and book binders have found themselves pressed to keep up their orders, and a large increase in the use of paperbacks in recent years has heightened the problem of which books the publisher should stock. Because of this shortage of textbooks, Davidson professors had to submit orders for books before registration. Larger enrollment than the professors expected in some classes resulted in the present textbook shortage.

Nicholls stated that shipments of books within the past week have alleviated much of the problem, but several orders remain unfilled.

Ensemble Presents Last Lawn Concert

The Wind Ensemble will present their second and final fall lawn concert at 4:30 Sunday in the Fine Arts Quadrangle. The program will open with “Intrada,” a composition for five wood instruments, by Pezelis. This 17th century piece will replace the usual opening march.

Other selections to be played include the “Prelude to Act III of Lohengrin” by Wagner, “The Light Cavalry Overture” by Suppe, selections from the “Mary Poppins” score by the Sherman brothers and “Spanish Flea” by Herb Alpert. Arnold Hindin, a sophomore from Winter Park, Fla. will be featured soloist in Von Weber's “Concertina for Clarinet.”In reply to many student complaints about the library being closed on Sundays, the council approved a resolution drawn up by Tom Earnhardt calling for the library to remain open from 2 p.m. until 12 midnight on Sundays. Thus far this year, the library has been closed from 5 p.m. until 8:30 p.m. during the previously required vespers service. Earnhardt also investigated the possibility of keeping the game room in the Union open on Sundays, pointing out that a “pool ball is just as good as a basketball.” Earnhardt said that if students can play tennis, handball, and basketball on Sundays, there is no reason to keep the game room closed. According to Earnhardt, Tom Covington, assistant director of the Union, will attempt to get the game room open if this can be arranged.

Rotary Scholarship Goes To Carroll
Don Carroll, a senior from Scottsville, Va., has recently been granted a Rotary scholarship to further his study in history next year at St. Andrew’s University in Scotland. Each year a number of Rotary scholarships for study abroad are granted to graduate students. Although there are no limitations as to subject majors, applications for these fellowships must be filed during the junior year of college. Currently, there are three Davidson alumni, all June graduates, studying abroad on Rotary scholarships: John Callender, now studying in Scotland; Decker Faw, now studying in England; and Bill Logan, now studying in Australia. Many Rotary scholarships are granted to foreign students for study in the United States. This year one of the Richardson scholars, Ahmet Saracoglu of Turkey, also holds a Rotary scholarship.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

SPOT BOX
The student-wide spot box, proposed by Bill Watson last week, was again discussed. It was noted that some faculty members may attempt to veto the program, and the council agreed that it would be best to get a representative sample as to initial faculty reaction concerning the spot box. Bill Rikard expressed that, “realistically, a lot of students aren't in favor of the program. Some students aren't too enthusiastic about having professors make up new tests." Watson answered that the “whole idea of college is to get an education, not spot a review cold" and estimated that about one-half the faculty would offer spots. Watson’s estimate was challenged by Mike Powell.

In other business, Julian Prosser proposed that the council press the faculty for an expansion of several departments, notably the Political Science Department. Prosser reported that this department has only two professors for the third most heavily-majored department at Davidson. Prosser and the council's Academic Scheduling Committee plan to discuss the matter with Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty. Finally, Prosser announced that a new member of the Fine Arts and Lecture Committee needs to be chosen to replace Bruce Hyslop, who transferred to Columbia University.

“You are the trustees of Davidson College. It was founded with you in mind," By ROBERT PYEATT Staff Writer a theologian Dr. Sam Hill said in chapel Monday. Hill, chairman of the Department of Religion at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, pointed out that students are trustees of the college in four ways. “First, we faculty members turn over our resources and skill to you. This is a gift entrusted to you. “Second, you are responsible for the college. You may give to it what you will, mold, shape, and direct it. You are trustees of our society's redemption. “The third role you sustain is as trustees of the corporate life of the college. Everything about the college affects you. You live with an honor system here. The presence or absence of an honor system and the way it operates says a good deal about a school. “Fourth, you are trustees of personal morality—your personal integrity. Make sure your morality is in line with your work. Morality often aims too low,” Hill said. “The foulest word in the English language is not a four-letter word. The foulest word in the English language is ‘nigger’ and comparable words,” Hill remarked in explaining how students are trustees of personal morality.

In further defining the role of trustees, Hill defined four types of student subcultures. The “fun culture" is made up of students out to make friends and have a good time. The “vocational” group is principally interested in learning how to make a living. The “intellectual” group lives in an issue-oriented world. The “social activist” group agitates for change. “Each sub-culture ought to challenge the others,” Hill commented. “They can complement each other.” The fun culture can bring a carefree atmosphere to the campus. The vocational culture can point out serious aspects of college life. The intellectuals are extremely necessary because we live in a rationalistic world. The activists can make a great contribution to student life, Hill said.

“The student body should have a role in the formation of academic policy. You have a responsibility to ask about academic policy,” he continued. “I don't know if there is a tide of alienation here. This is the difference between what you do and what you say. “It is deplorable that many students sit only halfway through classes. You are responsible not only to the classroom, but for it. Avoid the posture of passivity,” Hill emphasized. “Trusteeship has a way of being treated as an honorary institution. We faculty sometimes don't believe you are trustees. You don't either. “I grow depressed with students saying, ‘O.K., prof, tell me how things are.’ I prefer violence to passivity. Don't defer to, don’t adulate the professor. He doesn't deserve it,” Hill said.

Educational institutions, he continued, are being looked to as solvers of many problems in society. Society looks to the college. The government rates education second only to national defense in importance to the country. “However, I am wary of those who say education is a panacea for human problems," Hill remarked. “You had to come to college. In a sense, you were required to come. But what else in society holds such high promise?" he queried. “Remember Churchill's response when he became Prime Minister. He was relieved because this was the responsibility he wanted,” Hill concluded.

Computer Is Compiling Cut List For Chapel
“A cut stands as a cut,” stressed Gene Shepherd, head of the chapel monitors. According to Shepherd, there will be no disputing a monitor’s word concerning the assignment of a cut. Shepherd adds that the rules on sleeping and reading in chapel are in the Student Body Regulations. Enforcement is no different than in previous years. He said that instead of cut books, lists of cuts will be posted this year, probably on Wednesdays. This year the college computer is being employed to help compile cut lists. Joe Friebele, one of several students who help with programming the computer, says the computer will help reduce the time required to record assembly cuts. In one trial earlier this year, the job was completed in 15 minutes. Friebele, who works with the Alumni Activities Office, says the cut lists are kept by that office as a part of each student's permanent record. The present program is the beginning of an overall program to use the computer in aiding the entire campus administration.

Janitorial System Still Being Evaluated
It is still too early to evaluate the merits and shortcomings of the new janitorial system in the dormitories, said Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories. Under the new system, the janitors empty the waste baskets in each room and clean the bathrooms daily. The reduced number of janitors, however, makes it impossible for the janitors to make beds or clean the rooms except for a thorough cleaning once each week. It is this last point that has caused some complaint. But there are more reasons than the new janitorial system for the hectic conditions prevalent in some of the dormitories. When asked about this situation, Mrs. Nicholls commented, “This has been one of the most hectic openings I can recall. It is taking us so long to settle down. A good many things have contributed to this. The new janitor service is one. There has been a delay in obtaining the cleaning equipment for each hall. “All of the construction which has been going on has put a lot of dust in the air, and it has made the rooms dirty. I feel, however, that most of the students are happy with their rooms. “We have been so very busy here, but next week we will start to check the rooms to see how things are. I know that there is some unhappiness about the new janitor system, but I believe that it is too early to judge it.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at LAKESIDE INN
Old Fashioned Fish Fry
Complete Party Service
Rt. 115—1st Paved Road North of Fox Drive-In Theater
596-2711 — 344-2990 — 377-2701

This ad, with your Davidson Pipe Smokers ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
matron michel
217 N. Tryon St.
375-9723 Charlotte

La Roma Ristoranti
Spaghetti — Pizza — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

SHONEY’S DRIVE-IN
Home Of The BIG BOY
Bring Your Date Here For OUR FAMOUS STRAWBERRY PIE
10 Percent Discount to D.C. Students
FOUR LOCATIONS
800 E. Morehead
3400 Plaza
3701 E. Independence Blvd.
Franklin & New Hope Rd.—Gastonia, N.C.
1243 Cherry Rd.—Rock Hill, S.C.
To Serve You!
Phone 376-2576