The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

Curtis HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1963

Hours Fee Incongruous

The most amazing thing about agitation over the $15-per-hour-over-16-hours fee is that no one has become disturbed about it before.
The charge is incongruous, not only because of a number of peculiar situations that arise in its application, but because
of a basic inconsistency in the justification behind it.

ROTC courses cause the most inequity in the administration of the charge. The two hours per semester of Basic ROTC
do not count towards the hallowed 16-hour limit, but juniors and seniors in the Advanced ROTC program have the three
hours counted against them. The question arises as to why the basic course should not be included in a student’s
total number of hours when the advanced is. Immediately one will answer: “The basic course is required, while the last
two years aren’t.” So are Bible, English, math, language and other courses ad infinitum, required, but they’re certainly included when
the great tally is made. Is it possible, that somewhere, deep within the recesses of the hearts of the powers
that be, there lurks a feeling that required ROTC is contrary to the idea of a liberal arts education and
that they compensate by not making hapless freshmen and sophomores liable for the charge.

But before cursing the fate of being saddled with Basic ROTC, disgruntled underclassmen should stop and think—those not enrolled in
the basic course, for one reason or another, are trapped in a worse bind. Coupled with the current restriction on
freshmen taking 13 hours, that is, four academic courses, it is impossible for these unfortunate students to get through their
college career without exceeding the 16-hour limit at some time. If the justification for the charge is the extra expenses
forced on the college, why should not the Advanced ROTC hours be exempted as are the basic hours? Uncle Sam,
not the college, is footing the bill for the ROTC program and it works no hardship on the school’s expenses
for students to be enrolled in the ROTC program along with regular academic courses.

Not only does the charge introduce a number of inconsistencies in its practical application, it lacks any consistent philosophical justification.
After a student has paid his tuition, the only limit on his course load should be what he can responsibly
maintain. There is no justification for telling a student that his “education” consists of a set number of courses. The
Business Office has justified the charge on the grounds that “if you buy a tie, it costs extra.” If this
is to be the reasoning, why not charge students the general fee on the basis of how thoroughly they read
THE DAVIDSONIAN or the social fee on how many functions of the Social Council they attend, rather than a set
fee?

Time For Student Initiative

There has been no shortage of student gripes about every conceivable academic aspect of the college, most of which will
be considered in the upcoming years in the curriculum revision program. But it takes little initiative to bitch, and a
number of people are skeptical about how seriously students take their interest in the college’s academic life. Action by the
faculty’s Curriculum Committee so far would encourage many to think that the faculty puts little stock in student interest or
involvement in curriculum reform. Admittedly, the faculty failure to recognize a strong student voice will make student opinion less strongly
felt, but it should be cause for a renewed determination on students’ part to involve themselves in the study now
beginning, rather than a resignation to token participation.

THE DAVIDSONIAN will be undertaking in the coming week a campaign to raise money for use by the Student Council's
Curriculum Committee to undertake an independent curriculum study. The drive will serve a two-fold purpose. In the first place, widespread
student participation will indicate to the faculty that students ARE interested in what direction the study takes. Secondly, the funds
will give the committee the financial solvency and independence to undertake private projects, such as visits to other schools, correspondence
and bringing in speakers who are familiar with current thinking in educational circles. In asking for only one dollar from
each student, THE DAVIDSONIAN is attempting to encourage a wide student participation, as opposed to a vertical effort aimed at
drawing larger amounts of money from a smaller section of the student body.

Welcome, Scott

A welcome new member of the Davidson family will be arriving on campus within days. The Rev. Scott Woodmansee, new
college chaplain, will be filling a position that could well be one of the most significant of any at the
school. Success with experiments in new modes of corporate worship at Davidson will rest to a great degree on the
leadership and initiative of the college chaplain. We are confident Rev. Woodmansee will be a major force in guiding Davidson's
religious fortunes, not only in organized worship, but also in the other less tangible but no less significant aspects of
the college’s religious commitment.

The new chaplain will considerably ease the work of Davidson's chaplain emeritus, Will Terry, who since last spring has played
a dual role of pastor at the College Presbyterian Church, as well as serving as acting chaplain. Fortunately, Mr. Terry
has no intention of giving up contacts with students while relinquishing the chaplaincy. Davidson is fortunate to have the resources
of two such men in the significant period it is entering.

Cold Feet

The current issue of Time examines a “new” fad among the nation’s college students: socklessness. The article doesn’t go on
to explain its definition of “new”, but the distinct impression it leaves is that the author has never been to
Davidson. For one reason or another, students here have gone sans-socks for more years than the preponderance of the present
student generation has been here. It’s become something of a symbol of the “cool” Davidsonian. Dr. W. B. Hight once
remarked that “I can’t imagine anything worse than being a sock salesman in Davidson.”

The magazine offers several obscure suggestions for the acceptance of the naked foot, such as the esthetic (a third texture
between pants and shoes interrupts the natural harmony) and sexual (“hairs on the ankle look provocative”). Such answers leave us
cold. It’s perfectly obvious that the utilitarian motives of comfort and convenience, more than any abstract ideas, drive students to
socklessness. Time suggests that many students may have taken up the habit because “their socks are in the laundry bags.”
More likely, they never came back from the laundry.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Kendrick Denounces Davidson's ‘Gnomes’

Dear Editor:

A dirge has infected the Davidson College campus—a dirge that was severely attacked but nonetheless still runs rampant in our
(and I use this word loosely) society. This curse encompassing none but the periphery of humanity, none but the vilest
human beings, none but the tragedies of birth, the charlatans, the hypocrites, the swine, the scum off the vinegar vats,
none other than (and may God have mercy on their souls)—the gnomes.

Now some of you, particularly lower classmen, are probably wondering what is this manner of man (and I use that
word loosely), I refer to as a gnome. I will do my best to explain their mode of existence in
the following list of gnome characteristics:

IMPOSING BOOK

1.) A gnome studies at least 11 hours per day, devoting another seven to sleep. The rest of the gnomish
day is composed of attending class to which he usually carries an imposing book and note-filled satchel. This is of
course not to insinuate that all satchel-carriers are gnomes.

2.) The typical gnome is a “guck”; i.e., he spends several minutes after each class period asking his professor questions
to which he already knows the answer. This ingratiating, sycophantic process usually works because most teachers are oblivious to his
gnomish designs.

3.) The gnome is in bed promptly at 11:00 p.m. and insists vehemently that all other noise cease when he
retires.

RARELY DATES

4.) The gnome rarely dates because of the difficulty of finding anyone as pitiful as he. Also the problem of
communication arises because the gnome has difficulty in conversing in anything but intellectual terms.

5.) The gnome has absolutely no athletic propensity. He believes that the physical aspect of life is beneath his dignity.

College Administrations Resist Student Voice In Policy-Making

(EDITOR'S NOTE: In light of the current controversy on campus concerning student participation in college policy-making, THE DAVIDSONIAN prints the
following article from the Associated Collegiate Press. The author is Marilyn Swartz, ACP news analyst.)

Despite apparent administration concessions to demands for “student power" at colleges across the country, student protest has often resulted in
attempts to contain the activist energies; a few “leaders" are placed in token committee positions or merely “consulted when decisions
are made. But students are making their disapproval known.

It seemed that University of Michigan students would have an opportunity to affect high-level decisions when Regents authorized student advisory
boards for the President and Vice Presidents in a meeting October 21. The committees were originally proposed by students, and
any student is eligible for membership on the five- to eight-man boards. When asked what the effect of the new
boards would be, Vice President for Student Affairs Richard Cutler said, “Some students who are members of advisory groups may
understand administrators’ problems.”better . . ." That could be translated, “If you can't lick ‘em, let ‘em join you.” At
the same meeting, however, the Regents provoked strong doubts as to whether students would actually have more say in affairs
of the university. The Regents voted Cutler sweeping powers over non-academic conduct. He was granted:

—“ultimate authority” over students' extra-curricular life;
—authority for an “immediate and comprehensive review” of all student regulations;
—power to review existing regulations of Student Government Council; and
—power to establish necessary interim regulations until the “immediate and comprehensive review” is completed.

In conducting the review of all student regulations, the Regents said Cutler should consult “academic, student, and staff authorities.” No
one knows, however, how much Cutler will consult. Mark Killingsworth, Michigan Daily editor, charged that the Regents’ move gives Cutler
“something close to dictatorial power.”

Some schools have refused students a voice altogether. When the retirement of Goucher College President Otto Kraushaar was announced this
year, students wanted a voice in the selection of his successor. They intend to sample student opinion on the qualities
necessary for the Goucher presidency, but their attempts may be to no avail. They have already been told by a
member of the President Selection Committee that students cannot pass “mature” judgment. Not to be daunted, editors of the student
newspaper are demanding representation on the committee. Professor Kenneth Walker retorted that the need for secrecy is endangered with every
additional person.

There are times when faculty and administrators are “very generous” in giving students a voice. At Iowa State College, a
committee was formed including the faculty, one administrator, two members of the community, and last, but perhaps least, two students.
What will this impressive collection of people do? They are to determine the adequacy of channels of communication, which involves
preparing a communications chart.

Students make a variety of demands on their administrations. They protest infringements of academic freedom, tyrannies of the grading system,
and inequities of their social regulations. They demand a voice in these decisions, but concrete victories have come in minor
matters. On many campuses, it is a year for the chart-makers.

“Quo Vadis,” THE DAVIDSONIAN’s bi-weekly guest column on national and international issues, will appear again next week when Junior Geoff
Seamans analyzes the recent national elections. Any student desiring to contribute to “Quo Vadis” should contact Louis Lesesne, Bob Travers,
or Kern Parker.

Aspects of life have no place in our society, thus the gnome’s body is completely degenerate. He has marked difficulty
in carrying his satchel from class to class and in climbing the steps to the library.

6.) When a term paper is assigned, the gnome scurries to the library and checks out all the relevant books
so that the rest of the class has no chance to use them.

NO BORROWING

7.) The gnome cannot stand for one to borrow his notes. He usually claims that someone else has them or
that he left them at the library.

8.) His weekly entertainment consists of a rollicking time at Hattie’s, drinking Country Club in quarts and being obnoxious in
general.

9.) The gnome's extra-curricular activities consist of sitting on the front row at Open End, picking his beard, smoking his
pipe, and asking irrelevant questions. Some gnomes prefer to merely throw frisbees on Chamber's lawn instead of hurling invectives at
the Union.

NOTES VS. HISS

10.) The gnome's approval of a chapel speaker is signified by his taking notes, whereas his disapproval is voiced with
frequent hissing.

11.) The gnome is considerably upset when either an athletic contest or a concert (especially Rock and Roll, which the
gnome detests) is audible at the library.

12.) The gnome applies for scholarships at every graduate school, knowing full well that he is hurting the chances of
others applying for the same scholarships. This is, of course, after the gnome has decided where he really wants to
go; because of his superior academic record, he can go.

AGAINST DRINKING

13.) His voting record on campus includes a vote against on-campus drinking and for the continuation of Vespers.

14.) The gnome never cuts class or overcuts chapel. In addition, the gnome has never received a parking ticket at
Davidson College—a next to impossible feat.

15.) The gnome takes a shower approximately once a month, thus his room always smells bad.

Underclassmen hear me out (for you seniors that recognize these gnomish characteristics in yourselves, I'm afraid it's too late): Study
the above characteristics and if you recognize any or all of them in yourselves, do something about it. Please help
me stamp out the gnomes from the Davidson campus.

BILL KENDRICK
Davidson College

Helm Indicts Laxity In Facilities Repair

Dear Editor:

Everyone else seems to be making a mule of himself by complaining about one thing or another, so I thought
I'd join the crowd.

In case any freshmen, sophomores, or anyone else who has used the swimming pool recently has noticed a layer of
fog over the pool or has noticed frostbite developing on his feet while walking across the deck, it’s because the
heating system is not working (brilliant deduction). Bet you don't know why it's not working.

If you guessed because the heating system hasn't been turned on or because the system is broken, you guessed right.
Do you know why the above situation exists? If you guessed the grounds committee hasn't fixed the system (rotten pipes
which run under the floor of the pool, lower gym, and wrestling room), you're right again.

Do you know when the leaky heating system was discovered? Would you believe last spring? Now that you know why
and how long the pool has been exceptionally cold, I'm sure you’d like to join me and the rest of
the swim team in offering our sincere congratulations to the grounds committee for acting promptly, over the summer, to repair
the heating system in the pool area so that we who use the facilities will be kept warm and healthy
over the cold winter months. Congrat . . . (just can't do it)—(cough, sniff, cough).

JOHN HELM
Davidson College
