PAGE SIX

Two Seek Chairmanship || KENDRICK, FOSTER

Election of the chairman of next year’s Social Council will be held Tuesday. The two candidates for the office are
juniors Vince Foster and Bill Kendrick. Both Foster and Kendrick gained experience by working on the Social Council this year.
Kendrick served as chairman of the arrangements committee, and Foster was publicity chairman and a delegate to the Block Booking
Conference in Raleigh.

Kendrick is a pre-med major from Monroe. He is a member of Kappa Sigma and the IFC. He is the
business manager for the Wildcat Handbook and a member of the D Club. Foster is a psychology major from Hope,
Ark. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the Business-Economics Association, and Young Democrats.

This is the first of the student body elections to be held this year. Current Social Council Chairman Dan Campbell
explained that the reason for the early election was to give the new chairman more time to gain experience for
next year.

VINCE FOSTER

Foster

EXPERIENCE. My primary qualification for the office of Social Council Chairman is the experience I have gained (1) by serving
this past year as publicity chairman for the Social Council, and (2) as a Social Council delegate to the Southern
Block Booking Conference held in Raleigh earlier this month. There, through lectures, discussions, and meeting with agents, I gained an
understanding of the mechanics of booking, the legality of contracts, and other techniques that will help the Social Council avoid
booking and contracting difficulties such as were encountered in preparation for Midwinters.

BLOCK BOOKING. This technique involves two or more colleges booking the same entertainment on consecutive dates at a reduction in
price. Used at Raleigh, this method enabled the Davidson Social Council to save several hundred dollars on the Spring Frolics
and Spring Concert entertainment. I propose that this technique also be used within Davidson.

COMMUNICATION. I feel there should be better communication and understanding between the student body and the Social Council. Therefore, the
techniques and problems of booking, prices of various entertainers, and the proposed budget should be explained and presented to the
student body through an assembly and/or THE DAVIDSONIAN.

POLLS. I feel the Social Council should reflect the student body tastes, wants, and expectations by the entertainment it contracts,
and I propose an increased use of student body polls to determine what the student body wants in the line
of entertainment. These polls should indicate not only the type of entertainment but also the preference of particular artists and
types of functions desired.

DRINKING. I personally feel that the student body should be allowed to drink at Social Council-sponsored events. However, I think
the Social Council should use its influence and direct its efforts to have this approved only if supported by a
student body vote and only for the events designated by the student body.

OBLIGATIONS. The office of Social Council chairman is a very time-consuming one. Since I have no other extracurricular obligations now
or next year, I would devote my full time to this office. I feel that I have the desire and
willingness to serve and the experience necessary to fulfill the position of Social Council chairman.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1966

Drama Dept. Readies Second Major Play

BILL KENDRICK

Kendrick

I cannot promise the Beatles and the Stones back to back in concert, but I can promise a great deal
of time and effort toward producing a full social program designed to meet the needs of our student body. Considering
always the less than unlimited funds of the Social Council budget, I still believe we can provide some of the
best talent available as was done in part during the past year.

As far as my plans for the progress of Davidson’s social life, I very strongly advocate drinking at Social Council
functions off campus. These off-campus affairs, especially those on “off weekends,” with some of the best available combos, could take
some of the burden off fraternities in planning their social calendar by eliminating the necessity of planning an excess of
“off-weekend” parties, and could provide Independents with a part of the social life that the college itself has definitely lacked
in the past. In addition, if fraternities desired an after-party, the talent would already be available and could be booked
for a later hour at a reasonable price.

I plan to center the talent provided for the student body around student body needs. This could be accomplished by
continued use of student body polls and by the utilization of a permanent Social Council suggestion-box to be placed in
the Union lobby. The suggestion-box would provide the student with an outlet for his gripes and “pet peeves” about a
past weekend and enable him to make suggestions for improvements or new ideas for forthcoming weekends.

I would also plan to publish the expenditures of the Social Council and the money remaining in much the same
way as the Student Council publishes its minutes. This would enable every member of the student body to know exactly
how his money is being spent. I will do everything in my power to bring about these ends.

PETER NERO Plans Social Council-Sponsored Visit

Drama, Pianist Slated For Concert Weekend

A concert by world-famous pianist Peter Nero and the Drama Department's production of Tennessee Williams’ “The Glass Menagerie” will highlight
Davidson’s Spring Concert Weekend on March 12. The Nero concert will be held at 3 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium, while
the drama production will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The weekend is a joint project of the Social
Council and the Drama Department.

Peter Nero is “somebody we've been trying to get for years,” according to Dan Campbell, chairman of the Social Council.
The 30-year-old Nero has been described as “an entertainer, a warm, easy-to-watch-and-listen-to, all-around performer who combines those three magical ‘T’s’
— talent, technique, and taste.” His music appeals to both jazz and classical enthusiasts. Nero has performed throughout the world
and is well known through concerts, records, television, and movies. Among his many honors is his selection as the first
American performer ever invited to appear at the Grand Gala du Disque in Amsterdam.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

Tennessee Williams’ The Glass Menagerie will open Wednesday, March 9, in Hodson Hall as the Drama Department's second major production
of the year. The play involves a confused but inspired woman, Amanda Wingfield, who is desperately trying to cling to
another time and place. Though at times foolish in her illusions, there is much to admire in Amanda.

LAURA WINGFIELD

Laura Wingfield, her daughter, crippled by a childhood disease, exists in separation from the world of reality and is almost
a part of the world of her own glass animals. Tom Wingfield is Amanda's son who is trying desperately to
break away from home but must act without compassion toward his mother and sister if he is to do this.
Jim O'Connor is a gentleman caller, a lone visitor from the world of reality.

DAVIDSON CAST

For the Davidson production, Amanda will be played by Mrs. Daniel D. Rhodes; Laura by Mrs. Sterling Martin; Tom by
Bill Wiseman, a senior from White Plains, N. Y.; and Jim by Walt Drake, a senior from Wenonah, N. J.
Rupert T. Barber Jr., assistant professor of Drama and Speech, will direct the play.

“I think this play is one which should be produced once in every generation of college students,” Barber commented. “It
is a play with which people who are just at the stage of breaking away from home can find much
to identify.”

The Glass Menagerie contains a great deal of Williams’ own early life. It is staged in a flat in St.
Louis similar to the one in which he lived. His sister also owned a glass menagerie which, Williams once said,
“came to represent in my memory all the softest emotions that belong to the recollection of things past.”

“There is some of Tom in every young person of his age, and there is some of Amanda to be
found in everyone’s mother,” remarked Barber. “I think this is one of Williams’ best plays and even after some flaws
are discovered in it, it remains exciting to work with.”

OPENING

The Glass Menagerie first opened in Chicago in 1944 and on Broadway three months later. Williams was awarded the Drama
Critics’ Circle Prize for 1944-1945 for the play. The production will be open to the public and to students through
Friday, March 11. On Saturday, March 12, there will be a special Spring Concert Weekend performance at 8:15 p.m., open
to students and their dates only. Advance ticket reservations are being taken in the Drama Department office in the Cunningham
Fine Arts Building. Adult tickets are one dollar and student and date tickets are 50 cents each.Designed by Robert Williams,
assistant in the Fine Arts Department, and built by senior Howard Bryan. Mrs. Peter Van Egmond is in charge of
costume coordination. (By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

College by the Council offering the entertainment. It books for concerts and dances to the fraternities, Lingle Manor, and any
other campus organization at a reduced rate. The result would be a savings in money for both the organizations and
the Social Council, and thus would enable the Council and the organizations to book more and better entertainment.

UNDERSTANDING. I feel there should be more cooperation—

(Photo by Lesesne)

HANSFORD EPES CRITICIZES “FORM OF COMMITMENT”
At Left Is Moderator M. R. McMillin

4 Faculty Members Explore Nature Of College Commitment
By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Assistant Managing Editor

Conceived by Reverend Bill Morris “to get people to talk about these things,” the first of a series of debates
was held at St. Alban's Church Wednesday afternoon with an overflow audience. About 70 students and faculty members sat in
on the debate as Dr. Louise Nelson and German instructor Hansford Epes tried to prove “the present form of Davidson's
Christian commitment is at odds with its stated aims of the ‘quest for truth’ and unlimited ‘adventures of the mind.’”
On the negative team was Dr. Anthony Abbott and Assistant Professor Charles Lloyd of the English department.

ATTITUDES
In his opening statement, Epes noted that commitment is “found in attitudes,” and presented the Church's failure to take a
stand on integration and emphasized its effects through the hesitation of the Davidson Trustees to plan for desegregation as late
as 1960. “Truth is not necessarily found at 7:30 on Sunday nights away from the Church,” he said, but he
emphasized that trivia is being used as the form of Davidson’s Christian commitment. Basing his point on a recent comparison
of Washington and Lee, an independent university, and Davidson seniors, Epes noted the W. and L. seniors were found to
be more religious than the Davidson seniors.

PRESUPPOSITIONS
Abbott began his dissertation with three presuppositions. He noted the historical relation between the liberal arts and the Church. Abbott
stated his belief that the relationship should continue, and the form it should take should be the form it essentially
takes at Davidson now. On the question of whether a liberal education can be a Christian education and vice-versa, he
gave both questions a “qualified yes.” He said a Christian will seek the truth everywhere, and further explained God desires
that our faith be tested in the arena of truth. “Our commitment does not destroy freedom but pushes it further.”

DANFORTH REPORT
Of the three types of Christian colleges according to the Danforth Report, the “defender of the faith college,” the “non-committal
college,” and the free Christian college, Abbott listed Davidson in the last category. With its freedom of inquiry, its clarity
of direction, and its climate of non-pressing commitment, Abbott noted that Davidson's form of Christian commitment was essentially correct.

Dr. Nelson said, “A college with a Christian commitment must enable its highest products of living to cope with the
issues of the times.” She noted that freedom is not an end in itself, but is a means to giving
expressions to the Christian commitment. Davidson, she stated, “must equip its product with a creative, methodical, analytic mind.”

SHELTERING
She presented evidence that the Davidson product is sheltered in the form of trustee, administration, and society policies. Restrictions on
hiring policies in the Bible, psychology, and philosophy departments either now in effect or in the process of being enacted
were introduced by Dr. Nelson. She stated that the administration has good intentions, but that the library is not adequate
for “adventures of the mind,” and the continuance of inept practices through tradition was hurting our form of commitment. “Brain-dulling
courses” and traditional pedagogical techniques have contributed to making Davidson's form of Christian commitment “the result of the need to
form a crutch.”

Introducing himself as “cantankerous,” Lloyd proceeded to attempt a one-man defense of the “historic Christian faith.” In a prolonged question
session, Abbott and Lloyd were the targets of most of the inquiries of the audience, including a point-blank question from
Dr. Philip Secor concerning the value of required worship as a faith developer. Near the end of the session, Dr.
George Abernethy suggested another debate of this type to examine the financial, religious, recreational, and social variances of Davidson's students
from the college’s Christian commitments.

NOMINATED for work on a Starring a crutch.

Academy Awards
Nominated “BEST ACTRESS OF THE YEAR”
Nominated “BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS”

CHICKEN
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Daily Food Specials
TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
Eat Under Tropical Palms
TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE

ROOMMATES: THEIR CAUSE AND CURE
You’d think that with all the progress we have made in the education game, somebody would have found a cure
for roommates by now. But no. Roommates remain as big a problem today as they were when Ethan Mather founded
the first American college. (Contrary to popular belief, Harvard was not the first. Mr. Mather started his institution some 100
years earlier. And quite an institution it was, let me tell you! Mr. Mather built schools of liberal arts, fine
arts, dentistry, and tanning. He built a lacrosse stadium that seated 200,000. Everywhere on campus was emblazoned the stirring Latin
motto CAVE MUSSI—“Watch out for moose.” The student union contained a bowling alley, a weighing machine, and a sixteen-chair barber
shop.)

(It was this last feature—the barber shop—that, alas, brought Mr. Mather’s college to an early end. The student body, being
drawn chiefly from the nearby countryside, was composed almost entirely of Pequot and Iroquois Indians who, alas, had no need
of a barber shop. They braided the hair on top of their heads, and as for the hair on their
faces, they had none. The barber, Tremblatt Follicle by name, grew so depressed staring day after day at 16 empty
chairs that one day his mind gave way. Seizing his vibrator, he ran outside and shook the entire campus till
it crumbled to dust. This later became known as Pickett’s Charge.)

But I digress. We were exploring ways for you and your roommate to stop hating each other. This is admittedly
difficult but not impossible if you will both bend a bit, give a little. I remember, for example, my own
college days (Berlitz ’08). My roommate was, I think you will allow, even less agreeable than most. He was a
Tibetan named Ringading whose native customs, while indisputably colorful, were not entirely endearing. Mark you, I didn’t mind so much
the gong he struck on the hour or the string of firecrackers he set off on the half hour. I
didn’t even mind that he singed chicken feathers every dusk and daybreak. What I did mind was that he singed
them in my hat.

To be fair, he was not totally taken with some of my habits either—especially my hobby of collecting water. I
had no jars at the time, so I just had to stack the water any-old-where. Well, sir, things grew steadily
cooler between Ringading and me, and they might actually have gotten ugly had we not each happened to receive a
package from home one day. Ringading opened his package, paused, smiled shyly at me, and offered me a gift. “Thank
you,” I said. “What is it?”

“Yak butter,” he said. “You put it in your hair. In Tibetan we call it gree see kidstuff.”

“Well now, that’s mighty friendly,” I said and offered him a gift from my package. “Now you must have one
of mine.”

“Thank you,” he said. “What is this called?”

“Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blades,” I said.

“I will try one at once,” he said. And did.

“Wowdow!” he cried. “Never have I had such a smooth, close, comfortable shave!”

“Ah, but the best is yet!” I cried. “For you will get many, many smooth, close, comfortable shaves from your
Personna Blade—each one nearly as smooth, close, and comfortable as the first!”

“Wowdow!” he cried.

“Moreover,” I cried, “Personna Blades come both in Double Edge style and Injector style!”

“Sort of makes a man feel humble,” he said.

“Yes,” I said.

We were both silent then, not trusting ourselves to speak. Silently we clasped hands, friends at last, and I am
proud to say that Ringading and I remain friends to this day. We exchange cards each Christmas and firecrackers each
Fourth of July.

© 1960, Max Shulman

The makers of Personna® Stainless Steel Blades who sponsor this column—sometimes nervously—are also the makers of Burma Shave.® Burma Shave
soaks rings around any other lather and is available in regular or menthol. Be kind to your kisser; try some
soon.
