AROUND THE HORN

SC Foes Awake; ‘Cats In First?

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

When the smoke cleared Saturday from Southern Conference gridiron battles, the Wildcat “Dirty Thirty” emerged as kings of a jumbled
conference hill. With East Carolina and William and Mary grinding out a 7-7 tie Saturday, the 'Cats are now the
only Southern Conference team sporting a victory in the family. If the ’Cats can polish off feeble Furman tomorrow night,
Homer can again sing the praises of his 33 Mycenaean mashers to anyone who watches television at 11:45 Sunday morning.

All the experts pegged East Carolina and William and Mary to settle the question of kingpin of the Southern Conference
last Saturday as the two powerhouses met in Williamsburg, Va. But it looked like William and Mary Coach Marv Levy
forgot to dress out his offense, as the Indians chalked up only 145 yards on the attack. A 95-yard punt
return by defensive specialist Chip Young in the second quarter put the Indians on the scoreboard, while ECC halfback Mike
Ellis grabbed a punt and raced 75 yards in the third quarter to even up the ball game.

Meanwhile, West Virginia managed to give Duke a few anxious moments before the Blue Devils remembered they were in a
ball game. The Mountaineers took an early game lead, as end John Mallory snagged a 55-yard scoring pass from quarterback
Tom Digon. But the Blue Devils roared back, as defensive end Bruce Wiesley intercepted a Mountie pass and galloped 21
yards to score. Fullback Jay Calabrese plowed over the goal line twice in the second quarter to give Duke a
20-9 lead at the half. Quarterback Al Woodall and halfback Dave Dunaway both scored on long runs to make it
a blue day for the Mounties. Mountie halfback Steve Edwards’ 12-yard TD run in the third was not enough to
save the day, as Duke came out on top 34-15.

Meanwhile, in Nashville, Tenn., Vanderbilt, perennial joke of the SEC, smashed The Citadel 24-0 before a hometown crowd which danced
in the aisles, overjoyed that the Commodores had managed to win a game. Junior quarterback Gary Davis scored twice from
the one and John Gamble scampered 98 yards on a pass interception to break the back of little Citadel. A
44-yard field goal by Fred Klaass rounded out the scoring.

Closer to home, Furman fell to strong Parsons 20-6, while Richmond dropped one to Dayton 28-0. VMI edged Villanova 14-13
to round out the conference schedule. All conference teams will see action tomorrow, with Davidson meeting Furman at Charlotte, The
Citadel battling Richmond, East Carolina hosting Northeast Louisiana, George Washington meeting Virginia Tech, and VMI committing suicide at Roanoke against
Georgia. West Virginia will host William and Mary to cap the conference festivities.

After the Point After (Continued from Page 6)

Mountaineers’ roster, he had the following ad inserted in several local West Virginia and Maryland newspapers:

MORGANTOWN, W. Va.—Help wanted: one goalie. Should be big, able to move quickly. Some experience necessary. Apply, Greg Myers, soccer
coach, West Virginia University, Morgantown, West Virginia.

But fairy tales always come true. One Terry Crabtree, a sophomore at Potomac State College, saw the insertion and eventually
solved the Mounties’ problems after being wooed by Myers in the proper manner. The rich get richer and the poor
get poorer.

ONLY ONE NAME PLAYER

Davidson has played only one game, but the experts are so thrilled with the ’Cats that one of their number
has been picked to the first all-star team of the season. Jeff Pflugner, 'Cat offensive tackle, rated a starting center
slot on the fourth annual Charlotte News Southeastern All-Name team along with such “name” players as Billy Shadnagle of LSU,
Gusty Yearout of Auburn, and Haven Kicklighter of Georgia Tech.

In announcing his selections, News sports editor Ronald Green said: “Some are born stars, some achieve stardom thrust upon them...
the man with the right name can emerge from the crowd... It must, by all means, be unusual.”

Davidson can be proud of its first student-athlete to win All-Southeastern honors this year. Could this be our first All-American?

In other honors won by Wildcats, Jimmy Poole was named Back of the Week by The Charlotte and was named
Associated Press Back of the Week in the Southern Conference. Pete Glidewell was named AP conference Lineman of the Week
behind Don Taylor of VMI. Winning honorable mention by the Observer for their performances last Saturday were Glidewell, John Giles,
and Ker Keith. Keep working fellows. Work a little harder or change your name and you can be as famous
as AEE RIESE AT.

POOLE FOLLOWS GLIDEWELL BLOCK ON OPTION PLAY

Four Best Hands on the Team Glidewell Catches Record

BY DALE DURHAM
Sports Writer

“It was a tremendous thrill,” end Pete Glidewell said after breaking the school record for most passes received in a
single game Saturday against George Washington. “I didn’t realize how many passes I had caught until the game was over.”
Glidewell, who played his first game at end Saturday, hauled down nine passes from quarterback Jimmy Poole to break the
old record of seven set last year by Bill Rikard.

“I wasn’t surprised at the victory,” Glidewell said. “The team was trained hard and was physically and emotionally ready. Now
that we've won a game, we have a more optimistic outlook for the season.”

Glidewell, a 20-year-old junior from Reidsville, was moved to his tight end slot from halfback this year, to take advantage
of what Coach Homer Smith calls his “exceptional pass catching ability.” Last season he racked up more than 100 yards
in a single game against Wofford.

“Playing end is a lot rougher.

Freshmen Praise Sports Program

After two weeks' exposure to Davidson athletics, most freshmen have been favorably impressed by what they have seen, according to
a poll taken this week by THE DAVIDSONIAN.

“I like athletics here,” said Fred Kastner of Cary. “There seems to be more spirit and enthusiasm with the team
here than back at high school.”

George Sproul of Staunton, Va. agreed with Kastner, “I think it's just great. There's a lot of spirit and everybody
seems interested in sports.”

One freshman gridder, who asked that his name not be used, said he liked the way Davidson tries to balance
sports with education. “It's like big-time athletics and big-time education,” he said.

Not everybody was so complimentary of the program. One freshman said he resented what he called “preferential treatment given to
athletes.” He cited the better quality and quantity of food and campus status which, he said, athletes enjoy.

Most of the freshmen interviewed said they thought living among athletes helped increase interest in sports. “When you live in
the same dorm or hall with the athletes and get to know them, you get more personally involved in the
games,” said one freshman.

The freshmen interviewed all approved of the theory of intramurals, but regretted that no satisfactory program has been established yet
for them. Several freshmen suggested establishing a bowling league so that students too small to play major sports might have
a chance to compete in an intramural or intercollegiate league.

CHARLIE SCOTT

Charlie Scott, bright elusive butterfly from Laurinburg Institute, said this summer he based his decision to dump Davidson for UNC
largely on the influence of Carolina's Assistant Coach.Assistant Basketball Coach John Lotz. Scott, who averaged more than 27 points a
game last year and was wooed by cage coaches throughout the country, told a reporter from the Greensboro Daily News
that Lotz impressed the superstar with his manner and sincerity. “Coach Lotz came to see me, we talked, and he
said this: Regardless of whether I decided on Carolina or not, he wanted to speak to me as a Christian.
That meant a great deal to me.” The 6-5 New Yorker, who coaches say may be as great as Goose
Tatum or Meadowlark Lemon, was a familiar face on the Davidson campus for more than a year, as the coaching
staff wined and dined him, and managed to get him to sign a conference letter of intent. But with only
a few weeks before the deadline for national letters of intent, which are considered binding, Scott announced his plans to
play for Carolina. “Before the past basketball season began, I visited Davidson,” Scott said, “and saw some of their games
during the season. But in March I visited Carolina. What impressed me about Carolina was that at Chapel Hill you
find all types of people. At Davidson there was only a certain high-class element. In this world, you have to
learn to live with all types. So, as far as I was concerned, Carolina would provide me a better all-around
background.”

Glidewell said, “There is a lot more contact on every play.” Glidewell said his favorite pass pattern is the throw-back,
where he can get away from his defensive man any way he likes.

THE DAVIDSONIAN September 23, 1966 Page Seven

PROSPECTS GOOD

Cross-Country Coach Heath Whittle predicted his team will do better this year than last. “We have better prospects this year,”
said Whittle. “Barry St. Clair, Mike Moats, Randy Phillips, Dean Cromartie, Fred Lowrance, Colin Hudson, Jim Wall, Bill Hearn, John
Morse, and Ed Van Deman all are looking very good.” Morse is the only returning letterman from last year's team
which finished low in the conference, recording only one victory, a 21-34 defeat of High Point College. This year, Whittle
said, Davidson is pre-ranked fifth in the Southern Conference. The harriers will launch their season Oct. 5 when they battle
the Wake Forest thinclads at Winston-Salem. Whittle said that neither team is expected to be in “prime shape.” Whittle declined
to predict Davidson's chances in the state meet in Raleigh in November because, he said, the presence of Duke and
UNC makes such a meet unpredictable. This year's schedule includes three matches at Davidson against The Citadel, St. Andrews, and
a dual meet with High Point and Baptist College. The conference meet is to be held at Greenville, S.C., in
mid-November.

141 Freshmen Fail Test

Approximately 42 percent of the participants from the class of 1970 failed to muster enough points to pass the physical
abilities test held during Orientation Week. According to Davidson’s Athletic Office, only 141 of the 241 freshmen who took the
test totaled 290 points or more, the passing requirement. Said Heath Whittle, assistant director of athletics, “More boys failed the
test this year than any other class since we have been giving it.” No new records were established in any
of the categories, which consisted of the standing broad jump, dips, bar snap, 100-yard dash, softball throw, and football punt.
One freshman, who asked to remain anonymous, said, “I feel that our class as a whole might be composed of
a little too much intellect and not enough physical training—possibly due to the increased academic standards here.” Sophomore Tom Baker,
who served as a starter for the 100-yard dash, ventured his opinion. “The freshman class,” he said, “has its share
of the outstanding athletes, but it’s somewhat out of proportion beyond that, with more than normal of the unathletic type.”
The class of 1970 averaged 302.07 points per man for the test, scoring a total of 72,798.8 points. Those who
failed to pass the minimum standard of 290 points are required to remain in a fundamentals class for the first
quarter or until they can improve their score to 290 or better.

Scott said he is eager to play under Carolina Head Coach Dean Smith, because “he is a man who has
also greatly impressed me. There is something more important in life. That’s why Coach Smith and Coach Lotz have meant
so much to me.” Scott plans to study business or pre-med at Carolina.

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 percent discount on pipe (only) purchases at
Michel’s, 217 N. Tryon St., Charlotte. Phone 375-9723.

Spaghetti — La Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti. BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY — Parm — CHOICE STEAKS
— La Roma Ristoranti, 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd., Charlotte, N.C. Phone 376-2576.

Half-price to college students and faculty: The Christian Science Monitor. The Monitor selects the news it considers most significant and
reports it, interprets it, analyzes it—in depth. It takes you further into the news than any local paper can. If
this is the kind of paper you would like to be reading, we will send it to you right away
at half the regular price of $24.00 a year. Clip the coupon. Find out why newspapermen themselves read the Monitor—and
why they invariably name it as one of the five best papers in the world.

I am enclosing $____ (U.S. funds) for the period checked. [] 1 year $12 [] 9 months $9 [] 6
months $6

Name: _______________

Street: _______________

City: _______________

State: _______________

Zip: _______________

College student: ____

Year of graduation: ____

Faculty member: ____

The Christian Science Monitor, 1 Norway Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02116
