The Davidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY
Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.
Louis Letson Editor-in-Chief
Hawk Business Manager
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Hasty Decision

You can say what you want, Davidson is not bound by tradition, and the place certainly isn't reluctant to undertake change. As a matter of fact, it appears that on occasion change may be undertaken simply for change's sake. The faculty open house system has been changed again, after only one venture into the first alternative adopted. The faculty’s “Religious Committee,” as the pro tempore group has been dubbed for lack of a better name, has determined that after the last Sunday in October, faculty members will no longer open their homes to students in general. Instead, professors will be encouraged to invite students encountered in classes and in other activities to their homes at a time specified by the professors. The program will be tried through the months of November, December, and January.

Not only are there a number of objections to the projected framework—there is some doubt as to the wisdom of undertaking it without giving the current scheme an opportunity to prove itself. Prospects for the campus-wide open houses, something like the old after-vespers open houses, were encouraging: 47 faculty and administration members agreed to hold open house during October.

Overextension

There are evidences that excesses in Davidson's social life may be running toward extremes. Admitted deficiencies in the availability of on-campus activities on weekends forced in 1965 the formation of the Social Council to take over entertainment functions previously administered by the Interfraternity Council. The Social Council, using funds from the newly established student social fee, was to fashion a more complete framework of social activities for the entire campus.

But last weekend's activities, complete with two bands, indicate the campus may be reaching a saturation point in planned activities. There were scarcely 50 dates at all Saturday's activities, a ridiculously low number. The planning and effort, to say nothing of the money, that accompany such activities, are not justified when the student body demonstrates no more interest than this.

The concept of a suitcase college has its positive aspects. To wish for its opposite extreme is absurd—no one should be expected to stay within the confines of Davidson every weekend, when few students have any better time to get away. Nor should the Social Council try to encourage such a development.

Occasions such as last weekend create a somewhat awkward situation: There's not enough activity to justify a student’s bringing a date from any place farther than Charlotte (not that we have any objection to any of the numerous institutions for ladies from which Davidson gentlemen ordinarily date in Charlotte). But such medium-sized weekends result in limitations on an ambitious student's social life.

The Social Council occupies an integral place on the campus. But by stepping into an over-ambitious program and attempting to sponsor entertainment for every weekend, it could possibly restrict its very effectiveness.

Deferred Opportunity

At a school where 70 percent of the graduates go on to grad school, and the remainder ordinarily immediately enter one of the armed services, it's sometimes difficult for seniors to acknowledge the fact that one day school will be out and they'll be faced with the unattractive prospect of looking for a job. Davidson offers one of the best placement services of any school in the country, yet it faces more than its share of problems, caused primarily by most seniors’ lack of any immediate interest in work. The number of students who have signed up for placement this session is pitifully low.

Few students are aware of the benefits that may eventually accrue to those taking advantage of the placement service now. When a man, out of college for several years, begins searching for work, his prospects will be boosted immensely should he already have a record on file, begun during his undergraduate years. Not only is taking advantage of the service beneficial to the individual, it will also help to improve the quality of the service as a whole. Having a large number of seniors going through placement makes the service more attractive to prospective employers and consequently widens the range of available jobs.

Personnel connected with the placement service, both in the College Union and Student Counseling Office, are willing to go to any length to make the program effective. Prospective graduates should shake off the robe of listlessness and do the same.

Religion, 1966 Style

The period of public mourning over the death of God seems to have passed: a big thing in religious symbols is now a Yellow Submarine, the Holy Trinity has become a quartet, and the Alleluia Chorus requires an electric guitar. Needless to say this is the Year of Our Lord—1966, B.C.—B.C. being, of course, Beatle Century. The Western world is hearing the first cries of worship this week: ‘John not Jesus.” And as is true of most deities, the popularity of the current idols is suddenly dubious.

Obviously when John Lennon—the Beatle sitting highest on Mount Olympus—announced some weeks ago that “the Beatles are more popular than Jesus,” he undoubtedly thought that he was merely stating fact. It seems, however, that at that point he had incited a cult. Long worshipped but never officially sanctified, the Beatles began somewhat unobtrusively in a place called the Cavern in Liverpool, England. The whole set-up was not much unlike the manger scene where Christ made his first appearance 2,000 years before. People came and kind of stared—both at the infant Christ and later at the singers. Other similarities cannot be easily overlooked either. Both Christ and the Beatles were fated for destinies with the stars, both performed miracles (the Beatles being able to turn docile, apathetic, teenage girls into screaming beasts), both experienced surging popularity and large followings only to find themselves eventually called blasphemers. Both Christ and the Beatles knew they were doomed... rock and roll and religion are fickle. The Beatles have been waiting for “their downfall" for several months now. Both have witnessed angry mobs. It may not be long before fanatics are throwing rocks at the Beatles instead of kisses.

Significantly, the Beatles even have a Gospel of their own. Twentieth century communication has enabled the singers to reach thousands without the aid of loaves and fishes. Their words are immortally inscribed on discs... Lyrics such as those of Nowhere Man and Eleanor Rigby are as didactical and thought-provoking as the sermons of Christ. And why shouldn't the Beatles become the successors to Christ? They're alive, enthusiastic, current, and palpable. Besides it's just as easy to say “John, Paul, George and Ringo'' as it is to say “Father, Son and Holy Ghost."
—Collegiate Press Service

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Driesell Argues For Subsidized Athletics

Dear Editor:
In answer to your editorial last week entitled “Double Standard”, I feel this needs answering. I have purposely stayed out of the argument of subsidized athletics here at Davidson College because I feel that everyone knows how I feel. I could write at length on what subsidized athletes such as Bill Jarman, Terry Holland, Fred Hetzel, Don Davidson, Barry Teague, Charlie Maroon, Paul Griggs, Dick Snyder, and Ronnie Stone have contributed to Davidson College. These men, I believe, are some of the outstanding alumni that this school has produced and all of them were subsidized athletes for their four years at Davidson.

In your article you referred to the lowering of admission standards for athletes, and quoted me as saying "The taller they are, the lower the standards.” This is a standard joke: Tell it on the speaking circuit to get a laugh, and it usually works.

COLLEGE BOARDS

You may be interested to know that the subsidized basketball players that are in our student body here at Davidson have average College Board scores of 578 verbal, 663 math, for an average total of 1241. Their average rank in class is 151st out of 384 making them in the top 38.41 percent of their high school graduating class. Another statistic of interest is that in my six years at Davidson every basketball player that has been on full scholarship has graduated from Davidson College at the end of his four years. We have never had a basketball player to flunk out of school. Likewise, we have never had a basketball player expelled from school.

The five boys in the freshman class that are receiving financial aid have average College Board scores of 534 verbal, 639 math, for a total of 1173. Their average rank in class is 90th out of 480. Last year our varsity and freshman basketball squads had a GPA over 1.8 average for both semesters.

FINE ATHLETES

We also have had some fine athletes that have participated in basketball at Davidson that were not on scholarship and made outstanding academic records, such as Danny Carroll, who was president of the student body and a Rhodes Scholar. The vast majority of our athletes have gone on to graduate schools, or will go to graduate school after completing their military obligations.

I will admit that I have secured tutors for several of these boys but, probably to your surprise, the boys that have used the tutors most were the better students. We in the Basketball Office are extremely concerned about the academic progress of our athletes and check their grades and cuts periodically and...in- surting pressure on them to try to be good students. In my six years at Davidson, I do not believe that we have ever spent over $100 per year for tutors, but we have a budget allocated for that.

“TOP TEN”
I am quite proud of the fact that in the past four years we have been ranked in the “Top Ten” basketball teams in the country twice and in the "Top Twenty" the other two years. I am also quite proud of the fact that we have two former players now playing in the National Basketball Association and that we have produced two All-American players. I am equally proud of the fact that our gate receipts over the past four years have paid for all of our expenditures, including tutorial services, our 12 grants-in-aid, coaches' salaries, travel and recruiting expenses, equipment, etc. However, I am prouder of the type of young men that have made up our basketball squads over the past six years. They have not all been leaders, but I believe that all of them always have been gentlemen and a credit to Davidson College, on and off the court. I don't believe that you have to worry about Davidson having any double standards for athletes. Every Admissions Committee in America, including Princeton, Pennsylvania, Yale, etc., gives a boy credit for activities outside of the classroom. Athletics is a strenuous and time-consuming activity and if a boy is a great athlete and can contribute something to his college by his athletic feats or feats such as being an outstanding debater, musician, etc., he will get a break from the Admissions Committee.

VERY PROUD
I can proudly hold my head up and brag that I am very, very proud of every athlete that I have recruited in the past six years to come to Davidson, and to date, we have had a lot of success in the classroom and on the court. We are working even harder to try to inspire our boys to achieve even higher goals in the classroom, and we hope to bring the National Basketball Championship to Davidson College within the next four years. You can knock my coaching, but you had better not knock my boys, because for six years their record on and off the court has been outstanding. I'm quite proud of all of them, and I believe most Davidson Alumni are proud of our former and present athletes and athletic program. Let's support our athletes and cheer them on to victory instead of criticizing them. They work hard and earn every penny of aid they receive!

CHARLES G. DRIESELL
Head Basketball Coach

Fools’ Names
Associate Editor

And Fools’ Faces

On Being Small Time
My last column, on September 30, was on the subject of student participation in the determination of college policy; basically I am in favor of increased student representation, with voting privileges, on all of the major committees of the faculty. The only major committee which I exclude is the Executive Committee for it only meets on demand, and a student may appeal to it whenever necessary. There was more included in the column but through a vicious goof which no one will acknowledge, the last two paragraphs were omitted when the column was finally printed. Therefore, I want to point out that I am in agreement with Lewis S. Feuer’s statement that “no matter how much responsible student self-government emerges, it still remains true that a modern university (college) cannot be a republic of equals. It is based on one essential presupposition — that knowledge and wisdom are cross-generational, that the elders have something to transmit." I quoted Feuer in order to appease the apprehended censure of the faculty and administration; but at the same time I ask my fellow students: Shall we overcome?

In the ten days since that column was published, I have not personally heard one word of comment, pro or con, on the proposals contained in it—not from students or faculty. There are several conclusions which one might draw from this sort of reaction: Nobody read the column; those people who did read it did not think it worth commenting on; the readers are not concerned with the subject generally. For a variety of reasons, I hesitate to draw any of the specific conclusions above, but I tend to lean toward the last one. Why? Because it seems to me that most people at Davidson just don’t think it will ever happen; voting student representation on these committees is simply not within the realm of the possible for most of the members of this community. This limited conception of the possibilities ahead reminds me of a similar problem which many social workers encounter when working with children from underprivileged environments: The children do not think in terms of becoming anything more than a mill worker or a janitor because they have never personally known anyone who has risen above this socio-economic level; the social workers find that they must remove the child’s limited conception of possible life goals before they can ever get the child to strive toward more ambitious goals; it is a matter of learning.

In some ways it seems to me that we of the Davidson College community suffer from the problem of having impoverished goals in certain areas. I am constantly reminded that we seek to be the best so and so or to have the best such and such in the South. We seem unwilling to recognize the progress being made in various areas of the higher education scene in this country; we appear to be trying to remain untouched by the massive socio-economic revolution swirling around us; we have never personally known anyone who has achieved higher goals than our present status, and thus we do not aim any higher.

Surely someone will insist that I be more specific as to what areas we have impoverished goals in or in what area we are failing to recognize educational progress. It is not my purpose at this point to be specific; perhaps before I can be more specific in such an area as increased student participation in policy decision making, we must try to remove our limited conception of possible goals. I don’t think that there is any particular process necessary to remove these limited conceptions; there are many ways: Widespread awareness of the problem will help. We must learn to think in new ways with different quantities. I will welcome any comments any of you might have. Finally, for those people—faculty and students—who need a succinct statement of the preceding, I offer the following: DON’T BE SMALL TIME — THINK BIG!

By EDWARD DWELLE