The Davidson library contains 115,000 volumes and is increasing at a rate of approximately 10,000 volumes a year, according to
Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library. It was, however, only in 1959 that the total number of books
added per year reached 5,000; since that time the rate has doubled. Part of this increase has been due to
a grant from the Duke Endowment. Dr. Davidson stated that President D. Grier Martin was able to secure this grant
for the college library two years ago. The grant, amounting to $40,000 a year, doubles the purchasing budget of the
library. Now in the third year of the grant, Davidson said that next year the college should be able to
increase the number of volumes above the 10,000 per year mark, since in the past much of this money has
gone into buying much-needed expensive research sets.

BOOK CAPACITY
The actual capacity of the library in storage of books is approximately 100,000 volumes above the present 115,000; however, actual
operating volume can include only about 55,000 more books. If this figure were ever reached, there would have to be
a new library building, Davidson commented. The most remarkable improvement in the library has been the increase in budget, according
to Davidson. When Martin was installed in 1958, the total budget for the library, which includes all salaries, cost of
repairs, etc., was only $43,000. By 1964-65 this budget had increased to $135,000. This is an increase of 313 per
cent in the library budget. Davidson assured THE DAVIDSONIAN, “If the percentage of increase in the next five years is
as high as in the past five years, Davidson should be able to hold her own with the best colleges
in the nation, north or south.” An increase of this size in the next five years would place the annual
budget at around $500,000. The library also subscribes to approximately 800 periodicals, including gift subscriptions, but this total does not
include annuals which are considered serials and government documents.

IMPROVEMENTS
Although a new library is planned, improvements have been made during the past year to the present structure. Most notable
was the shifting of books in the library in order to make the top story in the Babcock Wing available
for use. All of the books (all 115,000 volumes) had to be moved so that new books could be moved
in and the order of the books kept correct. Space for new books has been opened in all parts of
the library by the rearrangement.

RELIGHTED ROOM
Also over the summer, the reserve room was relighted, two new audio-visual machines were added to the microfilm room, and
three new offices have been opened on the first floor of the Babcock Wing. Davidson concluded that the administration does
not want to spend too much more on the building since the new library is being planned.

By BILL SEIGLER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A comparison of Davidson College library facilities with those of other schools reveals many shortcomings as well as some strong
points, according to last fall's Self-Study Report and various Davidson professors. In a comparison of libraries with 28 other liberal
arts colleges that compare to Davidson in size and scholastics, the Self-Study Report ranks Davidson last in number of books
and near the bottom in other categories, despite its endowment which ranks in the top half of the other colleges.
For example, Kenyon College with only 630 students and less than half of Davidson’s endowment, has a 165,000 volume library,
compared with Davidson’s estimated 121,000.

BELOW AVERAGE
The report also shows Davidson far below the average of these schools in the number of periodicals, library expenditures per
student, and percent of college budget allotted for the library. Suggestions in the report include increased expenditures for books and
journals (specifically asking for 25,000 books and 125 journals more each eight years), starting plans for a new library, a
larger staff, and more and better-lighted seating and carrel facilities. Several strengths were noted in the library. For example, the
open stock system makes finding books easier and more leisurely.

EXCHANGE SYSTEM
The library maintains an efficient exchange system with other colleges. The college is also buying many new books; 1,500 were
bought last month according to Miss Della Shore, library cataloguer. Another strong point, noted in the report, is the help
available from the library staff. Dr. Frank Bliss, associate professor of English, commented, “The library does a fine job with
the facilities it has. We simply need more facilities.”

WANT MORE WORK
Bliss also noted a change in the attitude of students toward their studies, “More students are more serious about education
than in the past, wanting to do more work. They must have access to a greater number of books and
periodicals,” he said. “We have the responsibility of having books on hand both for bibliographical purposes and the ‘browsing’ needed
in the pursuit of learning.” The needs for library expansion will become more evident with the expansion of the honors
program and the new curriculum, Bliss continued.

CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT
Bliss, who has taught at Princeton, noted the differences.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
SHONEY’S DRIVE-IN
Home Of The BOY
Bring Your Date Here For Some of Our Famous Strawberry Pie
10 Per Cent Discount To D. C. Students
Three Locations
800 E. Morehead
3400 Plaza
3700 E. Independence Blvd.
Franklin and New Hope Rd. — Gastonia, N. C.
To Serve You!by both students and faculty between that library and the Davidson one: “Of course Princeton is better, but
we're coming. We're moving in the right direction, beginning with its student and graduate library, in fact, to move rapidly.”
Some of the possibilities he listed for the new library include an improved microfilm room, greater record possibilities, microcards, paintings,
and a poetry and other special interests room. “The new library should be exciting,” he concluded.

By MASON STEPHENSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

An expanded staff and a book capacity of about 600,000 volumes are included in the plans for Davidson's new library
which tentatively will be built within the next eight years. Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, said that
although a site for the new building, which was recommended in last fall's Self-Study Report, has not yet been selected,
he has already planned the architecture for the library. Davidson hopes that the front of the building will be a
rotunda, modeled after the Jefferson-designed Rotunda at the University of Virginia. This part of the structure will be in the
neo-classical architecture typical of the rest of the Davidson campus.

BLOCK STRUCTURE

Behind the rotunda, his plans call for a “University of New Mexico rear” consisting of nothing but a block structure
without windows. This building will be “artificially lighted, heated, cooled, and cleaned,” according to Davidson, and will have a capacity
projected at approximately 600,000 volumes. The inside will be as drastic a break with tradition as the “New Mexico rear.”
Tentatively planned are faculty study carrels, departmental seminar rooms, a doubling of the library staff including the addition of a
rare book curator, an archivist, and an increase in the reference staff.

CULTURAL EXHIBITS

The rotunda front will serve as an exhibit room featuring cultural exhibits of art and writing which would be of
interest to the entire college community. Commenting on the chances for the building of this new library within the very
near future, Dr. Davidson stated, “Considering the president we now have, it is almost definite.” The types of carrels in
the new library will range from the closed type for faculty and typing to the open type which is currently
in use in the library. Davidson said that seating for one-third of the student body is generally considered adequate.

CROWDING

In the present library, there are 162 carrels and seating space in reading rooms for 200 students. However, Davidson added
that although this provides study room for well over the one-third minimum, it is unsatisfactory since there is a great
deal of crowding because space is not utilized as effectively as possible. As undergraduate libraries go, Dr. Davidson said that
the seating at the library is well ahead of most, for Davidson provides far above the average number of carrels
for individual study.

PRESENT NEEDS

In listing the present needs of the library, Dr. Davidson said that the solution to most of the library’s problems
will be included in the construction of the new library. He added that the seminar rooms in the basement are
too small and too crowded, but improved seminar facilities are planned for in the new structure. Further, he commented that
the microfilm and audio-visual department needs expansion since it has been outgrown. Two new audio-visual machines have been added, but
this crowds the present available space. But the library's greatest need is to increase the number of volumes in the
library. Each department in the school is given a budget with which to purchase needed books and the library also
has a general fund from which to purchase books.

NEW BOOKS

The types of books purchased depend upon the department and what it orders. Dr. Davidson said that the library staff
provides the professors with lists of recommended books for undergraduate libraries. Recently, a list was provided by the University of
Michigan, and in the past, schools such as Harvard have published them. He further stated that many times when examining
inter-library loan requests, he finds requests for books which the library should definitely have, and he adds them to the
next order out of the library’s general fund.

In regard to the report of the Self-Study Committee and the visiting committee from the Southern Association of Colleges and
Secondary Schools, Davidson commented, “I was much pleased with Dean Jack Dalton of Columbia University, chairman of the visiting committee
for the self-study, and I am in complete accord with his recommendations. His visit was of great benefit and inspiration
for the library staff and committee.”
