Expanding Population, Industry Characterize Past Dozen Years
By CARTER FUSSELL Staff Writer

During the past dozen years, Charlotte and Mecklenburg have been engaged in continuous growth, a fact that Charlotte Chamber of Commerce officials said: “Charlotte is growing so fast we don't dare print a skyline picture on our city map.”

Charlotte’s population growth rate from 1956-1966 has been 68 percent while the county has grown 48 percent over the same 10-year period, according to Mrs. Kay Abbott, researcher at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. This has given Charlotte a population of over 2 million people within a 25-mile radius and has placed it in 15th place among the largest urban regions of the country.

COUNTY GROWTH

In 1950 Charlotte's population was 134,042 as compared to this year's population of 250,000. At the same time Mecklenburg County has grown from 197,520 to 325,000. During this time school enrollments for the county increased 65 percent from 45,279 to 74,913, according to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education. This growth has not resulted in an idle population as employment has risen 37 percent from 98,300 in 1956 to 144,860 in 1966.

In the last two years and nine months, 133 new firms have moved into Charlotte, employing 4,989 persons. This has resulted in a 93 percent increase in retail sales from $238,390 in 1956 to $461,413 as an estimated figure for 1968. In addition to a terrific growth in consumer buying, Charlotte’s 110 percent increase in wholesale business has allowed it to account for more than half the entire wholesale business for North Carolina. Charlotte does three times more wholesale business than any other city in the two Carolinas, more even than Birmingham, Miami, Richmond, or the entire state of South Carolina. According to Mrs. Abbott, these sales amounted to $2.8 billion last year versus $1.3 billion in 1956.

Charlotte maintains connectivity with the rest of the world through an active Douglas Airport that served over one million travelers last year. The paid boardings from Charlotte last year increased to 573,321, a 103 percent increase over the figure ten years ago. In other areas of transportation, Charlotte is one of the largest truck and air traffic transportation areas in the Southeast being served by more trucking lines than any city in the two Carolinas. Postal receipts have grown for Mecklenburg County from $4,672,160 in 1956 to $10,984,715 last year. The New Yorker magazine designated Charlotte as one of America's 40 trading areas for quality merchandise.

Contrary to general student opinion, Davidson and the surrounding section of Mecklenburg County have shared favorably in this growth. The present population of Davidson is 2,603, including the students of the college. Population figures for 1950 were not available.

TOTAL ASSETS

A survey of total assets of the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company gives an indication of the economic growth of the community. Total assets have increased over 330 percent from $2,845,498 in 1950 to $10,579,594 in the third quarter of this year. William H. Jetton, vice president, said “We have been pleased with the general growth rate of the bank over the last 10-15 years, but especially pleased with the last year. If a bank can hold its own in a period of tight money, you're doing well and we are still above last year’s total. We have tried to take care of local loan demands through the years, but in this period we just can't stick our necks out on long-term real estate loans.”

Charlotte ranks 33rd in the nation in value added by manufacturing exceeding that of Atlanta, Birmingham, or Toledo. Davidson is beginning to share in Charlotte’s industrial growth.

DOUBLED EMPLOYMENT

Carotex opened a plant in Davidson in 1961 and hired 25 people. Within the last six months, they have doubled the size of their plant and now employ 80 persons with an anticipation of employing 90-100 in the next few months, according to John Thomas, plant manager. Reeves Brothers, Inc., opened their Cornelius plant in 1960 with a maximum employment of 200, according to Ronald Hager, personnel manager. In 1965 they opened their second plant at the cost of one million dollars and now employ 570 persons.

With the opening of Lake Norman in 1963, Davidson and the area have been growing rapidly. William Bryant of Lake Norman Properties, Inc. says that of the 22 developments his company maintains around Lake Norman, 80 percent of the lots have been sold. These developments have 70 one-half acre lots each.

Professors Anticipate Effects Of New Factory

Near the end of one of the several Davidson streets that run mysteriously down into Lake Norman, a large brick building is being constructed that could fundamentally alter the socio-economic structure of this college-oriented community. The General Time Corporation is building a plant there that will employ more than 600 workers when operating at full capacity and will require over 50 executives. Division personnel moved into their offices Monday. Production should begin on a small scale within two weeks, according to James Smith, production planner and buyer for the firm, which is relocating its Athens, Ga. operation in Davidson.

The most obvious potential effect is the economic one, with the introduction of a new employer into the Davidson economy who will pay beginning wages of $1.40 per hour, far above the minimum wages now being paid by the college. Dr. Louise Nelson, assistant professor of economics, was cautious in predicting sweeping economic change. She suggested that there would be some upward pressures on both wages and the cost of living in the area. “There should be no pronounced effects,” she said. “The increased productivity is the question.” Miss Nelson emphasized the side effects that would result from the plant, such as an increase in general purchasing power and expansion of business in Davidson.

Dr. A. G. Griffin, also an economics professor, was more definite, predicting an immediate impact on the employment situation which would result in a shortage of labor. He asserted that the lower end of the wage scale would have the opportunity to move up as a result of the increased demand for unskilled labor. The college “may have to raise wages,” especially for its service employees, he commented.

College Business Manager Robert A. Currie was cautious in evaluating the effects of the new firm on the college, saying only that “as long as wages and salaries continue to go up, it will affect the cost to the student.” He explained that the college tried to pay the competitive rate in the area, and that General Time had probably set its wage scales on the same basis. It was the consensus of the people interviewed that the new plant would generally be good for Davidson. “I can’t think of any adverse effects on the college,” Nelson said. She suggested that the top executive level who would move to Davidson would offer the college a new area of contacts who would be interested in the welfare of the school and would help to spread the “fame” of Davidson. The students would also benefit from both contact with the new executives and from a new awareness of the non-academic world. Dr. Charles Lloyd, assistant professor of English, agreed that the new plant would have a beneficial effect on Davidson. “It is...gaod Lo he diversified, to have more than one source of income,” Lloyd said. “Davidson was nice before this, but one thing is certain, all things must change.” He pointed out the increase in purchasing power and the rise in real estate values as the most obvious immediate advantages.

Asked why General Time had chosen to locate the new plant in Davidson, a representative of the firm who has had to move to Huntersville theorized, “I believe that they must have closed their eyes and pointed at a map.” He was quick to point out the proximity to Charlotte and that the firm “likes to locate in college towns,” however. Nelson suggested that the attraction of the fertile “Piedmont Crescent” had brought General Time to Davidson.

Regarding 1540 lots on the lake, Mr. Bryant says, “Most of the choicest property has been sold — mostly to people from Charlotte and Mooresville, though people from all over this section have bought lots.” He says that the announced opening of Interstate 77 has increased buying on the Highway 21 side of the lake.

TIGHT MONEY

Water view lots sell for $795 to $1695 while waterfront lots sell from $2900 to $4900 depending on the degree of development as to paved streets, sewage, and water. “Tight money has kept many people from completing building plans during the past year,” Bryant explained.

Along with the lake, the Davidson area has grown in recreational facilities with the Robert E. Lee River Boat, Out Rigger Harbor, and numerous marinas that have opened in the last 10 years. Hattie’s is perhaps the one establishment in the county that has experienced a recent increase in business. “Our business has been about the same for all the 17 years we've been here. I guess the only difference is that when students came up here 17 years ago, they used to hide behind the doors.”

Labor Supply Foremost Reason For Area Industrial Expansion

By BRODIE BROWN
Staff Writer

The available labor supply was the foremost reason for moving General Time's automotive clocks factory from Athens, Georgia to Davidson, according to Athol Webb, division manager of Industrial Engineering, who was in charge of the move to Davidson.

SECOND FASTEST GROWING AREA IN COUNTY

Twenty-two Housing Developments Surround Lake Norman and New Interstate Highway To Require Rezoning in North Mecklenburg

ONE OF THE MAJOR CATALYSTS TO THE AREA

Growth Prospect Good In North Mecklenburg

North Mecklenburg County with the construction of a new Interstate highway, the development of Lake Norman, and several new factories should experience significant growth in the next few years, according to Jerry Hendricks of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. This week’s DAVIDSONIAN Report delves into the prospects for the north end of Mecklenburg County and looks at aspects in which the town of Davidson and the college will be involved. Staff writer Brodie Brown talked with officials of General Time, whose nearly-completed plant is the most significant recent addition to Davidson’s industrial complex. Carter Fussell interviewed the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce to get a perspective of the growth of the entire county. To look at the General Time plant from another point of view, staffer Tom Peddicord talked with several professors to get an assessment of what changes the plant will bring. Bill Graham also talked with the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce to get an overall picture of what are the factors in the growth of the North End.

NEW PLANT CENTRALLY LOCATED IN SOUTH

Convenient Power Supply and Transportation Draw General Time

“The plant in its present size will employ 318 people, and thus far we have had no problem because of the many applications which we have received,” said Webb. This plant was formerly located in Athens, Ga., along with another of General Time's plants. Each of these plants needed expansion, and the labor market in Athens was almost saturated. One of the plants has therefore absorbed the other plant's employees it needed expansion, and the new Davidson plant has been built to specialize in movements for automotive clocks. Because of the importance of the movements for automotive clocks, the Division Headquarters was established in this new plant, which also provides a central location for the Southern Division. Another factor in this selection was that there is no competition for the plant here, and there is very little competition at all except for foreign competition. The site of the plant, located beside Lake Norman, was instrumental in the decision too. The plant purchased 47 acres of land from Duke Power Company. The assured power supply and cooperation of Duke Power has enabled the plant to progress very rapidly. Davidson’s nearness to Charlotte and all the services which Charlotte has to offer fostered the decision to locate in Davidson, according to Webb. Benefits such as good communications, power supply, transportation, and shipping are all important to a plant the size of General Time. “Our shipments from the north reach Charlotte in one day,” stated Webb, “but it takes four days to reach Athens.”

Residential sites on Lake Norman are especially attractive to plant personnel, but present housing has created some problems. Hendricks based his opinion on statistics which depict rapid growth in the past few years and indicate similar growth for the future. He especially pointed to population figures for Mecklenburg County. The population of the county (excluding Charlotte) in 1960 was 272,111; the estimate for the present time is 325,000.

NEW PLANTS

Hendricks predicted growth of industry in the county and pointed to new plants built in the area by Industrial Dynamics and General Time. “One of the major catalysts to the area,” said Hendricks, “will be the completion of I-77. Already Lake Norman is the second fastest growing area in Mecklenburg, falling behind only southeastern Charlotte.” He added that the completion of the new Interstate will require a rezoning of most of the land north of Charlotte. This rezoning will specify which areas will be used for housing and which for industry. Plans for this are underway.

RESEARCH PARK

Another part of the Chamber of Commerce's plans mentioned by Hendricks was a project calling for a Charlotte research park. “Ideally,” Hendricks said, “this park would be located between Davidson and UNCC. This strip of land would be reserved for industrial and research use and would hopefully provide an attraction for the types of people employed in research.”

Bill McIntyre of the Charlotte Mecklenburg Planning Commission commented on the plans for Lake Norman, “In 1963,” he said, “the Planning Commission presented a comprehensive study on developing the lake area. It recommended plans for convenient location around the area, commercial and resort development, and a setting aside of land for a county park.” McIntyre added that the Board of County Commissioners declared the plan unfeasible because of lack of funds. “And no new ones have been made,” he added.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Mr. Webb mentioned the

FOREIGN SERVICE careers

Ambassador Olcott Deming, Foreign Service Officer will be on campus tonight to discuss career opportunities. A film, “In Search of Peace,” will be shown, 9:00 MORRISON ROOM