The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Another New Challenge

Certain students grossly displayed their ineptitude at demure thinking in this week’s referendum when less than one-third of the student body voted to repeal the drinking rule from the Student Body Constitution. What is so astonishing is not that the drinking rule was taken off the books, but that no other regulation was repealed at the same time. After nearly one-half of a semester of extensive debate on the merits of the Student Body Regulations, only 45 per cent of the student body marked ballots in Tuesday's voting, which was marred unfortunately by an abortive referendum held last month. (Notwithstanding, the freshman class, or approximately 25 per cent of the student body, did not vote this week.)

The very regulations which should have been smitten from the record were left untouched. Provisions against gambling and hazing no longer belong in the Student Body Regulations. Gambling is not prevalent and has always been an ambiguous term of reference through the years. Furthermore, hazing belongs under the supervision of the Interfraternity Council and not under student body rules as a whole.

Perhaps the unique debate in Monday’s assembly is excuse for the bungling in the balloting. The arguments welled solely on the drinking rule question and did not mention the other provisions. Perhaps the lack of proper publicity and usual reminders on the voting day explains the sparse turnout of voters and, therefore, the doubts as to the true reflection of student opinion on this matter. We could dwell on various other speculations concerning the preparations for the voting.

Instead, we are inclined to believe that the greatest shortcoming of the entire matter is the unprecedented vote on the entire body of Student Body Regulations. The idea of submitting the whole body of rules periodically to a vote of the students is closely comparable to placing the general statutes of a state to a vote of the people every generation.

Nevertheless, the student body drinking rule is no more; so, what does the future bring? College administrators were noticeably quiet this week, but whether stunned or embittered remains to be seen. Faculty members, having spent much of their meeting time this year discussing the drinking rule, should be loath to begin another semester on the subject. Furthermore, we can see no justification for immediate action on the part of the faculty, assuming the continuation of the current bearing of the student body.

Therein lies the true significance of the one vote that decided the outcome of the referendum. The continued good conduct of students reflected in their matureness and overall demeanor will undoubtedly be measured closely in the future by the administration. No roadblocks, no dormitory checks, and no breath analyzers have been placed into operation since the results of the voting were announced, and we can foresee no such steps, considering the prudence of both faculty and students.

The 301 votes pushed an added measure of responsibility on each student; for, as long as the faculty regulation remains in effect, there is actually no provision for initial jurisdiction by students in this area. Also, there is a definite need for a clear understanding among the administration, the faculty, and student leaders under the new circumstances. Any unnecessary delay in effecting such a mutual interpretation of the situation through the Student-Faculty Coordinating Committee may prove to be a rather unfortunate one.

Every student now has the challenge to uphold even more strongly his position in the community on campus and the opportunity thereby to accept even greater responsibilities in the future.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK
Associate Editors
Assistant Editors
Managing Editors
News Editor
SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER
Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Copy Editors
Photography Editor
TOM THEL
Photographer
CHIP PURVIS
Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Yates Faison, Bob Reid, Mike Mooty, Joel Keys, Cliff Duke, Jim Marrow, Don Sewell, Steve Brown, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen, Bob Schofield, Ron Snow, Price Cameron, Bob Travers, Mason Stephenson, John Williams, Bill Seigler, Mike May, Craig Wilson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

What's Ahead? by Lingle

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Junior Calls For Students To 'Assume Responsibility'

Dear Editor:

The results of the voting on Tuesday's Referendum show a lack of thought and understanding by the Student Body. Now that all students are equally responsible for enforcement of the Student Body Regulations, the purpose of the Referendum was to eliminate unnecessary and unenforceable rules. By retaining the rules against gambling and hazing, we have defeated the whole purpose of the Referendum.

The gambling regulation is unnecessary because one person's gambling neither infringes on his fellow students’ rights, nor disrupts the workings of the community. Gambling is no longer considered immoral and it is illogical for students to be duty-bound to prevent it.

Hazing is associated with fraternity programs and should be enforced by the IFC. The fact that it is not enforced now detracts from the enforcement of the whole system of Honor and Student Body Regulations. It seems odd that we kept these while repealing a drinking rule which might have some logical justification. Its absence could possibly lead to excess noise, damaging of property and, then, stricter enforcement by the College. The fact is, however, that the rule is repealed. We now have a chance to show that we are mature enough to handle ourselves without it. We have been saying for a long time that we can assume responsibility without ‘paternalistic’ rules. Let's make the best of our chance.

Paul Marion
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

RICHARDSON SCHOLAR

Foreign Student Relates First American Christmas

By STEN LOFGREN
Richardson Scholar

This was the first Christmas I had ever spent in a foreign country—it was a very interesting one and I do not think that any country could have made me feel more at home at Christmas time than the U. S. Of course the weather was a serious set-back as far as Christmas feelings are concerned—in Sweden, where I come from, snow is one of the most important ingredients in Christmas. All in all this has not been what I think of as a traditional Christmas—a Christmas spent at home in my family. I spent it with another of the Richardson Scholars, Juergen Ewald from Germany. We bought a car together. (Have you seen a white ‘54 Pontiac, probably slightly reminding you of a graceful swan? That's ours). We put more than 1,400 miles on that car during the Christmas recess, and we had no troubles.

Our first goal was Huntington, W. Va. The First Presbyterian Church in Huntington had organized an international house for foreign students. It was all free and very well organized, you could come and leave when you wanted. The whole thing was a great success for the organizers—expecting 20-30 when they started, they received about 190 all in all during the holidays. On our second day in Huntington we met an American boy who invited us to stay in his home, and we did for three days, still partaking in the program organized by the church. One day we made a trip north following the Ohio River and visited Ravenswood, where we had been invited by a friend of mine, Bo Hartley. We stayed at his home on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day and had a great time. When we left it was like leaving a family of our own.

We then went to South Carolina by way of Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee, going over the Smokies at dawn. It was wonderful to see the sun rise among the mountain peaks. In South Carolina we stayed in our roommates’ homes, I at Tom Craig's outside Spartanburg and Juergen at Woody Cleveland's in Columbia. We both enjoyed ourselves very much, and I am sure that I speak for both of us when I say that we now know what American hospitality means, that we made a lot of friends during our trip and last, but by no means least, that we met many charming Americans of a kind that is all too scarce at Davidson: Girls.

‘PLAYBOY’ POLL

Survey Finds Student Opposition To Johnson

While a large majority of U.U.S. college students and their faculty agree that President Lyndon B. Johnson will be re-elected to a second term, but the students favor a Republican candidate, according to a survey conducted by Playboy Magazine one week after the election of John V. Lindsay as Mayor of New York City. The survey conducted on 2,000 campuses shows that a majority of the students—55 percent—would vote for a Republican candidate in 1968, yet 66 percent of the 200 faculty members would prefer a Democratic candidate. Despite their preference, however, 91 percent of the students agree that a Democratic candidate would win the election. Eighty-six percent concede the election to Mr. Johnson while five percent think Sen. Robert Kennedy of New York might win. Among the faculty sample polled, 95 percent believe that the Democratic party will again be victorious, and only one percent of these believe it will be someone other than Mr. Johnson.

The Playboy survey also asked, “Since American males are eligible for the draft at the age of 18 and are serving their country, should the legal voting age be lowered to 18 years in all states?" Only 55 percent of both the students and faculty agreed that this should become law. The principal reason offered by the survey’s respondents against the lowering of the voting age was that intellectual maturity is more important than physical maturity.

Of those students who chose Republican candidates, 11 percent cast their ballots for Barry Goldwater, 10 percent for New York Mayor-elect Lindsay, nine percent for Gov. William Scranton of Pennsylvania, and the remainder for Michigan Governor George Romney, former Vice President Richard M. Nixon, Gov. Mark Hatfield of Oregon, and Gov. Nelson Rockefeller of New York. Among the students who prefer the Democratic party in 1968, 29 percent chose Mr. Johnson as their favorite candidate; 12 percent, Sen. Kennedy; two percent, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey; and one percent, Gov. George Wallace of Alabama. Among faculty members who prefer a Democratic candidate, 48 percent selected Mr. Johnson as their favorite; nine percent, Mr. Humphrey; and six percent, Sen. Kennedy.

Nine percent of the Republican-oriented faculty members chose Gov. Romney; seven percent, Gov. Scranton; six percent, Goldwater; five percent, Nixon; four percent, Lindsay; one percent, Gov. Hatfield; and one percent, Gov. Rockefeller. Out of the nine percent of students who believe a Republican candidate might emerge victorious, Governors Romney and Scranton, Goldwater, and Lindsay—each are conceded a five percent chance. Two percent of the faculty thought Nixon might be a winning candidate, while one percent said Gov. Romney had a chance.

The survey determined that 76 percent of the student respondents will be eligible to vote for the first time in the next Presidential election and that 98 percent of all those eligible students say that they will vote in 1968. The survey is based on responses from a representative sample of approximately 1,000 students from all classes, ages, and backgrounds who serve as a permanent “sounding board" on questions of current interest. Another permanent panel of 200 faculty members—one representative of each campus, comprising a wide variety of educational fields—has been polled. The survey also reflects opinions from campuses on a regional basis—in the East, Midwest, South, Southwest, and West.

GENTLEMEN DON’T BELIEVE they should enforce a conduct rule they don’t accept—does this surprise anyone? Throwing out the on-campus drinking ban from the student body conduct regulations makes the student’s position a little less hypocritical, though perhaps still rather inconsistent. Though a recurrent problem here, the social consumption of alcohol in and around Davidson has already been decided by the social customs of mid-20th century American society. Give another decade and even Davidson will have a tavern on Main Street (and open bars in Charlotte). But with any major social change, the transition process involves a difficult and often bitter period of hard feelings. So here we are now. There doubtless will be considerable sentiment in the faculty and trustees for retaliation against the students. Part of their anger comes from being put in a bad political situation, part from feelings of betrayal and frustration—part from sheer unwillingness to see that student action (at least on this issue) is forcing the college, step by step, to recognize certain facets of 20th century Americana. I hope this retaliatory sentiment can be avoided in favor of a gradual solution, best for all concerned. Repealing what the faculty and trustees considered concessions in the drinking rules, hiring extra guards to make drunk-a-meter tests or search rooms and car trunks, banning fraternity parties: these actions will do little except increase ill-will and consequently very bad publicity for the school at a critical time.

Imagine how potential donors and large foundation officials would consider a campus where a virtual state of war exists between administration and students, complete with frequent searches and harassment and resistance by the students, newspaper headlines. I fear this more than I care about either a wet or dry campus. All parties involved must now make some moves to save face. The move for the administration probably will be to announce in no uncertain words that it will enforce with severe penalties the faculty regulations—then to do nothing that isn’t already done (except now handle cases themselves). Then the best move for the students would be to accept this situation quietly. Why? Because this campus is no more going wet than Hattie’s Cabin Tavern is going dry, as long as the administration considers on-campus drinking a crime. The student responsibility now is to keep matters from getting out of hand and to accept any reasonable faculty dicta on the situation. Let the transition period be gradual, reactionaries and radicals hushed, and the results will be conducive to all: the trustees and administration can still claim the campus is dry, the students are not responsible for enforcing unacceptable (and unenforceable) rules, and the entire matter will be kept out of the newspapers.

EVER SLEPT THROUGH A REVIEW? The Faculty Regulations state that permission to make it up will be granted by the Dean of Students’ Office only when the absence was due to circumstances beyond the student’s control. Sleep is not considered an adequate excuse. These regulations are enforced very haphazardly by the individual faculty members. I conducted a spot poll of about fifty students with these results: eight men, seven different professors involved, took make-up reviews without any consultation with the Dean’s Office; three students who had missed reviews went through the Dean’s Office and two of them were denied permission to retake the review. All the absences involved were from sleeping through the scheduled review period.

These regulations are there to protect the faculty members from student exploitation. There has been some student resentment about these regs on two counts: first, that once or so in a college career a man might oversleep a review purely by accident; second, that such men are unduly penalized by a grade of zero. In the first place remember that it is the student’s responsibility and his alone to show up on time for any scheduled hour test—to find out when and where it is, make certain he is awake, and show up on time. This responsibility cannot be ducked. In the second place the faculty regulations do not prescribe a specific penalty for missing a review. A spot check of five professors (none of whom were reported as not enforcing) showed unanimous agreement that such an occurrence would not automatically fail a student whose work was otherwise acceptable. In most cases they indicated that the grade would be affected by from half-a-letter to a whole letter. Practically speaking this is usually an equitable solution. But there are still some problems that remain: haphazard enforcement and the fact that some professors do record and average a zero in such circumstances—a penalty too harsh for anyone except a repeated diver. Yet the matter of a grade for a course rests with the individual professor anyway. And it would be a bad precedent for the faculty to dictate (in effect) a grade to a professor. But if all these cases were handled through the Dean of Students’ Office, then it might enable the Dean to be able to recommend (unofficially of course) something more than a zero for sleeping through a review in first-time, legitimate cases.

PARKING FACILITIES is a very minor problem here, contrary to popular opinion. There is room to place all 400 or so cars somewhere within five minutes walking of any place on campus. But there is not room to put 400 or so cars all at once in back of Belk or by the library or in the fraternity court. This is hardly surprising, since the campus is not a shopping center. It takes five minutes to walk anywhere on campus, no matter where one’s car is parked. By comparison at Carolina it can take twenty minutes to get where one is going from where one parks. There is no problem of adequate parking facilities, but there is a problem of lazy students.