Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

No Magical Powers

We heartily concur in the faculty's approval of the recommendations of the Social Life Evaluation Committee this week as a significant step in the college's concern for the well-being of every student.

There are certainly no magical powers in any set of proposals, including those that concern the social life of the Davidson student body. By the same token, the seven recommendations of the Workman committee may not hold the panacea for every shortcoming in this area. They do represent the willingness on the part of forward-looking students and faculty members to alleviate a problem that has been conveniently overlooked for so long that no totally amicable solution is to be seen.

The peculiar nature of fraternities throughout the country makes even the slightest adjustment seem totally unbearable for their members. It is unfortunate, then, that a system that has served the needs of a majority of Davidson students so well through the years must be forced to accept changes of which it does not wholly approve. It is even more regrettable, however, and a poor reflection on the majority of students who enjoy such advantages that no attempt has been made heretofore to provide such opportunities for the remainder of the student body.

Therein lies the cause for the distaste for such belated adjustments and for the fraternity man’s sudden clamor. Also, it is reason enough for a slow and temperate approach to the problem, a solution for which cannot be found overnight, as we have pointed out before. The alterations which were made this year in the social life have proved themselves in the better adjustment that freshmen could make to campus life as a whole.

We do not foresee the achievement of a perfect situation next year or the year after that. But, if the positive effects of such adjustments as were made for this year can be felt in the immediate years ahead, the continued and determined effort that has characterized the current study of this campus blight can erase the unglorified ignorance that has endured for so long in this area.

Kennedy Puts His Foot In

Senator Robert Kennedy is in a remarkably poor position to charge, as he did Tuesday, that there is “confusion” in the Administration over war aims in Viet Nam. Senator Kennedy’s own peace prescription is hardly a model of clarity. Does he, for example, advocate negotiating formation of an interim coalition government with the Communists, in advance of any elections? His Saturday statement indicated that he did (giving the Communists “a share of power and responsibility,” he said then, “may come about through a single conference or many meetings, or by a slow undramatic process of gradual accommodation”). Or does he, as he seemingly tried to suggest Tuesday, only advocate accepting this if it comes about as the result of free elections? The difference is crucial.

Mr. Kennedy’s original basic argument was that offering “unconditional discussions” is not sufficient: that we have to offer enough in advance of a conference to tempt the Communists to attend, with the implied promise of more once the negotiations begin. And yet it is difficult to conceive what more we could offer, beyond the share in a South Vietnamese government that he held out. He referred Tuesday to the Laotian experience as an example of a coalition that worked. True, Laos has not been completely swallowed up, and its Premier, Souvanna Phouma (originally a Soviet nominee), has learned enough from his experience to have become anti-Communist. But what the Communist Pathet Lao did, once they had their agreement, was to keep the territory they held, refusing government forces entry, to accept a share in the national government and to continue fighting to take over the rest of the country. The fighting, as a matter of fact, is still going on, aided by North Vietnamese troops. It hardly provides an auspicious model.

The original Kennedy statement was a remarkable document, balancing proposals that would appeal to the Left with muted warnings against the pitfalls in those proposals—but giving no indication of how the pitfalls could be avoided. There must, for example, be protection against “sudden and violent upheaval.” It will require “enormous skill and political wisdom to find the point at which participation (by the Communists) does not bring domination or internal conquest.” These are among the things the war is about. Basically, the U. S. war aims are perfectly plain and have been often stated: to thwart North Viet Nam’s effort to take over the South by force. Such critics as Senator Fulbright and Walter Lippmann refer to this as a demand for “unconditional surrender,” which is a remarkably loose use of a phrase which has acquired a precise meaning. There has never been any suggestion that North Viet Nam submit to occupation; implicit in all the United States has said is that the future status of the indigenous South Vietnamese Communist forces would be negotiable. Senator Kennedy now solemnly warns that Hanoi could not accept “a settlement which leaves in the South a hostile government, dedicated to the final physical destruction of all Communist elements.” No one suggests annihilation of the Viet Cong as part of a peace settlement. What is necessary, if an honorable settlement is to be achieved, is one which guarantees independence, self-determination and—not least—security for South Viet Nam.

The trouble, unfortunately, is that these are precisely what Hanoi intends to deny the South, and the more encouragement the “peace bloc” gets from Americans of Mr. Kennedy’s standing, the more Hanoi is encouraged to hold out for total victory.

—New York Herald Tribune

Wasted Effort

The delivery this week of the long overdue Alpha Phi Omega Directory prompts us to renew a plea we have made earlier: The APO should make arrangements so that the directory can be delivered within the first week of the first semester. There is no reason why the information necessary for the book cannot be compiled over the summer as well as it can during the first semester. Even when delivered at its earliest scheduled time, in the past, the date was always well into the first semester, when much of the usefulness of the book has been wasted. With rush postponed until the second semester, there will be no need to wait until the start of school to obtain such information as pledges of fraternities. Should the APO distribute its directory promptly at the beginning of school, there would be no need for THE DAVIDSONIAN’S campus directory, a makeshift device which makes no claim to replace the utility of the APO's booklet. The best thing that can be said about the newspaper's directory is that it is printed at the first of school, and with the APO’s cooperation even this advantage can be transferred so there will be no useless duplication of time and effort.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Associate Editors

Assistant Editors

Managing Editors

Assistant Managing Editor

TOM COOK News Editor

SAM BOYTE Feature Editor

HEYWARD CARTER Copy Editor

CHRIS HAWK Sports Editor

BILL BRIGGS
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Assistant Sports Editor

ARCH McCALLUM Assistant Copy Editors

Photography Editor

TOM THEL Photographers

BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists

LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager

BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager

Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Bob Reid, Yates Faison, K. D. Weeks, Bill Richmond, David King, Cliff Duke, Don Sewell, John Williams, Ron Snow, Cameron Ferguson, Robbie Hooker, Billy Farr, Bill Graham, Joe Beard, Price Cameron, Grey Pash, Mason Stephenson, Bill Seigler, Al Varner, Lindsay Davis, Mike May, Toby Watt.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

‘A PATCH OF BLUE’

Critic Applauds Acting Of Negro And Blind Girl

By WILLIAM TROTTER

A Review

When I was invited to attend a screening of A PATCH OF BLUE, I went with mixed feelings. Reviews of the film had left me with the impression that it was one of those “good idea” pictures which start well and hold a lot of promise, but soon degenerate into soap opera. The story of the love between a blind, tormented young white girl, and a compassionate Negro is plainly a “message” film. When a director is trying to convey a message of this nature, he may easily fall into the trap of sentimentality which has ruined a host of films.

I expected to be mildly entertained by the film, if not frankly bored by it. I came away deeply moved. To be sure, there are moments (one can almost see a superimposed sign: “Author's Message” flashing on and off in a corner of the screen), when the dialogue becomes heavy and borders on the mawkish. But, for this reviewer, these moments are not important beside the tremendous emotional impact of the movie, the obvious love and sincerity shown by director, actors and cameramen alike.

The story is simple. A youngBlind girl who lives in a squalid and violent tenement apartment with her vicious mother (portrayed with a vengeance by Shelley Winters) and her besotted grandfather, is befriended by a young Negro, played by Sidney Poitier. He alone, of all the people she has known, believes in her, is tender to her, and finally, loves her. The rest of the plot is predictable enough, but I cannot label it cliché because of the rare sensitivity of its treatment. The film sparkles with splendid acting. At last, Sidney Poitier is freed from playing the Uncle Tom meets Sammy Davis type roles he has been given for so many films; he plays his difficult part with restraint, tremendous professional skill, and complete insight.

The discovery of the picture is Elizabeth Hartman who portrays the blind girl. This is her first film, and she has already been nominated for an Academy Award on the strength of this single role. The only thing similar which comes to mind is Patty Duke's performance of the young Helen Keller in THE MIRACLE WORKER (before Patty Duke sold out her fine talents to become another bad teenage singer). Miss Hartman is a radiant, slender, altogether fresh and wonderful actress. She plays an enormously difficult part with flawless style and complete identification. (To better master the role, she wore special lenses during the filming which actually made it impossible for her to see.) She is magnificent; by far the freshest and most exciting star to appear in American cinema in a long, long time.

A PATCH OF BLUE succeeds in telling a beautiful story well. It is not pretentious, it is not at all profound—God save the mark. It is, perhaps, not art. But I have the deepest of sympathies for anyone who cannot find something in a beautiful story, well and sensitively told. See it.

by Hill

Library Facility Needs

(Editor’s Note: The following, from the records of the Library Committee of thirty years ago, shows the timeless need for improvement of library facilities).

Davidson College
Department of English

TO THE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE:

The members of the Library Committee feel that we are charged with perhaps the greatest responsibility carried by any committee, in connection with the intellectual and development of the students of Davidson College. On every college campus, the library is expected to be the center for reading, for study, for investigation where the student may readily find the material he seeks, a comfortable place in which to work and a stimulus to greater intellectual endeavor.

The committee is gratified that provision is being made for additional well-trained assistance for the coming year, that will aid in making the contents of the library more readily available for student and professor. However, no matter how much the personnel of the library staff may be increased, the contents of the library can never be made available to a satisfactory degree, until far more working space and equipment is provided. The shelves of the library are now crowded though occupying most of the floor space of the building. The question constantly arises, “Where can we find room for more books?” But a library is primarily a workshop for large numbers of students, not just a place to house books. We of the Library Committee recognize every day that we are in serious need of half a dozen times as much work-space and equipment as we now have. Until more facilities are provided, we feel seriously handicapped in making the library the center of the intellectual activities it is expected to be.

The library committee is therefore appealing to the President and to the Trustees to let no other line of material development at the college take precedence over a new and far larger library building. We can think of nothing else by way of celebrating the 100th anniversary of the founding of the college that would so encourage students and faculty in their mutual endeavors in things intellectual, as a Library building adapted to the needs of our enlarged student body.

For the Library Committee,
Henry T. Lilley, Thos. W. Lingle.

Nine Tails:
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

THE CONTINUING SQUABBLE over whether students must pay extra to see their own team play is an aspect of a continuing problem: the role of big-time athletics in the educational process. The overemphasis on strong football and basketball teams at many colleges has led to a disease called “athleticitis.” Its chief characteristic is the maintenance of an intercollegiate athletic program principally for the enjoyment of the alumni and their friends, rather than for that of the student body involved. Davidson today is showing signs of developing athleticitis. Having spent three years as head manager of Wildcat football teams (with a partial athletic scholarship), I have been disturbed by certain trends now accelerated.

THE FIRST SYMPTOM OF ATHLETICITIS is an undue proportion of student time required by coaches. Any sport (particularly football and basketball) requiring from three-to-six hours-per-day (six days per week) participation is taking entirely too much time from the student's intellectual development. The reason coaches require so much time on football and basketball (and other sports) is laudable enough in itself: a desire to excel. Yet to whose primary benefit is this time required? The intellectual development of the player or the prestige of the institution? When a coach requires players to practice on Sunday as happened in football here this fall, the whole business has gone entirely too far.

One highly-regarded athlete who quit one of the major athletic teams reportedly made this comment: “I don’t mind working long hours for the team. But that coach wanted me to sacrifice my whole college career to his team.” A man holding an athletic scholarship leads a double life, that of student and that of college employee. And subtly the emphasis is placed on his role as a college employee, paid to play and paid to play well. Money is being invested in him, not on his intellectual potential, but on his ability to play football or basketball. Then it is little wonder that he honors his athletic commitment before his scholastic goals. The blame for this situation should be placed not on the player, but on the individuals who force him into this position.

THE SECOND SYMPTOM OF ATHLETICITIS is the control of athletic policy, wholly or in part, by sources and individuals outside the immediate college community. There is a rumor that says the football and basketball coaches receive one salary from the school and another from members of the Wildcat Club. Recruiting funds are likewise reported to be guaranteed by these individuals. Divided salaries produce divided loyalties. If this rumor is true, then certain of our athletic coaches are subject in part to the wishes of men outside the college administration. Theoretically the Athletic Committee of the Faculty is “authorized” to determine all policies regarding intercollegiate sports and scheduling. In reality this committee has little authority, as evidenced by Dr. Scott's bland comments in last week’s THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Who does control Davidson College’s athletic policies? Maybe Dr. Martin, apparently certain trustees and their friends, certainly not the faculty, the one group closest to the students. This is another sign of oncoming athleticitis.

A THIRD SYMPTOM OF ATHLETICITIS is an undue portion of the yearly budget going to intercollegiate athletics, to the detriment of other college needs. Davidson’s Living Endowment, supposedly coordinating fund raising for all college activities, originally stipulated that 34 percent of this fund would go toward athletic scholarships. But that agreement was worded so that a certain number of athletic scholarships are guaranteed, with the regular college budget absorbing the tuition increases. Now an amount equal to 50 plus percent of the Living Endowment goes for athletic scholarships. Each increase in college fees will mean more jolts for the regular college budget.

The administration seems strangely reluctant to disclose just how much big-time athletics do cost the school. Public budgets (such as the one in the Self-Study Report) include place salaries, traveling expenses, stadium maintenance and some equipment expenditures under any category except that of athletics. I suspect that an amount equal to one-third of Davidson's entire annual budget may be going exclusively for big-time football and basketball teams. I wonder how many alumni would contribute as enthusiastically to the Living Endowment if they realized most of it goes only for athletic scholarships.

At a time when a new library, improved dorms for the frosh, and more money for new educational equipment are vitally needed, so much money just for nationally ranked athletic teams seems a little inconsistent with Davidson’s educational aims.

THE EXTENT OF OUR COMMITMENT to intercollegiate athletics is one that should be discussed in full. I have brought out only a small part of the entire story. I favor restoring to the faculty the authority to decide athletic policy—such is the situation in the Big Ten Conference. Our faculty, being the closest group to the students, should have at least an equal voice with outsiders in determining our athletic policies. And let the college administration explain to the Ford Foundation and alumni why it is necessary to divert so many of their contributions to big-time athletics at the expense of many more urgent educational needs.