WEATHER REPORT
Mostly sunny and somewhat warmer this afternoon and tomorrow. Clear and cool tonight. Sunday will be partly cloudy and cooler.
High today 72. Low tonight 40.

VOL. LVI Homecoming — The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1966

DWELLE GIVES FEMALE ADVICE (See Page Two) NUMBER SEVEN

PRAM Sets Program To Attract Members

The need for new members in an expanded cultural exchange will be the topic at the Project of the Americas
membership program at 9 Thursday night in the Green Room of the College Union. Open to all students, the program
will “emphasize how the expanded exchange will enable increased student participation in helping better relations between the Americas,” according to
PRAM Secretary Bill Williams. Featured in the program will be a discussion and slides on the past achievements of PRAM
and plans for future expansion. Dr. Philip Secor, assistant professor of political science and faculty advisor to PRAM, will also
discuss the significance of the project in the two years since it was first begun on the Davidson campus. Last
year PRAM carried out an exchange program in which 15 U.S. students went to Ecuador and Bolivia and eight Ecuadorians
returned to the U.S., each for two months. This year there are plans to extend the program to Mexico and
Peru, increase the number of participating U.S. colleges and universities from 15 to 40, set up PRAM chapters on these
campuses and begin plans for next summer when each of the chapters will sponsor exchanges. Other plans include the establishment
of PRAM-sponsored speaking tours, scholarships for study at foreign universities and cultural exchanges such as that of folk groups.

Girls Examined

THE DAVIDSONIAN Report this week looks at the question of subsidized athletics. For a report on the financial aspects of
the problem, the pros and cons, two opposing letters from graduates of the college and a look at athletics' effect
on admissions policies, turn to page three. Managing Editor Bob Travers and Assistant Managing Editor Kern Parker planned and directed
the report.

For Gala Homecoming

Exuberance broke through a sky that had been cloudy for almost a week Friday and the sun shone to welcome
over 700 girls to Davidson for Homecoming, 1966. The unaccustomed femininity brightened the campus and set the stage for “the
best Homecoming entertainment ever” with Davidson vs. The Citadel, the Righteous Brothers and Dionne Warwick in concert. “All we're hoping
for now is that it won't rain Saturday,” Mrs. Peter Nichols, supervisor of dormitories, remarked as she made final preparations
for the weekend deluge of temporary residents in Belk and Richardson dormitories. Homecoming Queen candidates will be judged by a
faculty committee composed of Dr. Thomas Clark and Dr. and Mrs. Antony Abbott Friday night and will be crowned at
halftime Saturday by Nanette Minor, Miss North Carolina. The Righteous Brothers concert in Johnston Gymnasium will begin at 8 p.m.
Friday night, followed by a combo party featuring “The Manhattans” in the Morrison Room of the Union beginning at 10:30.
Saturday Davidson's Wildcats tangle with The Citadel in the annual Homecoming gridiron contest. At 8 p.m. Dionne Warwick will appear
in concert in Love Auditorium, followed by a combo party in the basement of Chambers with “The Entertainers.” An outdoor
folk concert with David, Della Rosa, and Brooks at 1:30 a.m. on the baseball field and a Hungry D supper
club breakfast from 2 to 4 a.m. in the Union will conclude the organized festivities. The only cloud on the
horizon is for some seniors who will be taking the Graduate Record Examinations Saturday. “This is the best entertainment we've
ever had at Davidson and probably the best for years to come," Vince Foster, Social Council Chairman, commented. Over 3,000
students and alumni are expected at the Homecoming luncheon to be held on the lawn in front of the Union
from 12 until 2 p.m. Saturday, according to alumni activities coordinator Bill Bondurant. Highlighting the alumni activities will be the
installation of National Alumni Association officers, including Dr. Hugh Verner of Charlotte, president; Sam Hemphill of Hickory, president-elect; Gen. Brooke
Allen of Washington, D.C., vice-president; and Louis Hart of San Antonio, vice-president. Another special feature will be the fortieth reunion
of the 1926 state champion Wildcat football team. Students’ identification cards will be checked by policemen at both concerts, Foster
said. He reported that tickets to the Righteous Brothers concert are selling well on campus but sales are slow outside
the campus.

Trustees Finish Autumn Meeting

The college trustees wound up their fall meeting today. Much of the meeting was expected to be concerned with procedural
matters, since the trustee bylaws were just revised during the May, 1966, meeting. They were also to receive letters from
each of the 12 fraternities indicating compliance with the non-discrimination policy set by the board earlier. The policy bans any
discrimination on the basis of race or religion. The trustees were also to hear proposals for the replacement of the
vespers service, which was suspended for a two-year trial period at the May meeting.

DIGGING FOR A DATE

Due to a suggestion made by the Freshman Council, the Class of ‘70 has been busy for the last two
weeks getting the campus spruced up for their dates this weekend and for the returning graduates of other classes. The
freshmen voluntarily gave a short period of their time digging up weeds and trimming grass back from the sidewalks. (Staff
Photo by Olson)

Extra Hours Charge Will Not Be Dropped

Little chance exists for revising the practice of charging an additional $15 per semester hour for all hours over 16.
“It’s just like buying a suit of clothes," said Myron McGill, Bursar of the college. “If you buy a tie,
it costs extra. There has to be a limit somewhere or else things get out of balance.” The need and
justice of this system has been questioned by Julian Prosser, junior Student Council member, who has circulated petitions opposed to
the practice. Prosser finds three main fallacies in the system. The first is that “since freshmen are allowed to take
only 13 or 14 hours, they should be allowed to take these additional hours up later at no additional cost.
“Furthermore, since the Department of the Army finances the entire ROTC program, the third and fourth years of ROTC should
not be included in the 16-hour limit.” Finally, “since Davidson seeks toproduce the well-rounded student, it is somewhat out of
character with this spirit to set a limit for the number of courses a student may take without being penalized."
Currie stated that it was much fairer to charge only the 140 students taking over the limit than to charge
the entire student body. Prosser expects to have over 500 signatures on his petitions which urge that a student be
allowed to take as many hours as he wishes.

Three Recognized

STEVE BALES
RICK ALTEMOSE
CHIP ROBERTSON

Great Issues Speaker Proclaims ‘New Left’

“For many years the word ‘left’ was a bad word in this country, even before McCarthy,” began Dr. Daniel Berman
in a chapel speech Monday on the revitalized role of the “New Left” in the U.S. A professor of political
science at American University, Berman came to Davidson as the first of the YMCA Great Issues speakers on the topic
of “The Social Revolution in the U.S.”

Berman contributed the decline of socialism in the U.S. early in the century to communist scares in the country, beginning
with the Russian Revolution and continuing through the New Deal and World War II. “The result,” Berman continued, “was that
the socialistic spirit on campuses was killed.” People became contented with the status quo.

The fire of the New Left began in the late ‘50s with the civil rights movement and has been fanned
by the growing displeasure with American policy. The civil rights conflict acquainted people “with new channels of unconventional political action.”
It was this point that Berman believed to have enchanted college students, because in its wake came the interest revival
on the nation’s campuses. The “Freedom Now” slogan of the civil rights movement will, according to Berman, be a living
issue until “the second class citizenship ends.” And the movement will become more and more radical. “The same whites,” he
said, “who look back to the good old days of Martin Luther King’s leadership did not support him when he
was the leader.” The new left will become the leader.

The recent upheaval of protest against the administration’s foreign policy is also a matter of concern of the New Left.
“The American people,” he pointed out, “gave Johnson a mandate to move on a foreign policy that would be an
antithesis to Goldwater's.” When Johnson switched his stand, however, and embarked on a course similar to that of Goldwater, the
“American political process failed because the voters had been ill-represented.” The New Left then demands unconditional withdrawal of troops from
Vietnam. “Negotiation is not acceptable.”

The notion that we are always right, said Berman, is a common fallacy in American thought: “Many peoples will not
accept our method of self-determination.” “It is the belief,” he went on, “of the New Left that our intervention in
civil wars will do more harm than the civil wars themselves.” The cause of the trouble, Berman asserted, is that
the President has let his ego get out of proportion. “He has become inflexible.”

Berman's New Left is already firmly entrenched with plans for a long-range policy after an initial doctrinaire position. It is
“gravitated toward pragmatic socialism and not Marxism” with “policies made for the benefit of society, not for the maximizing of
profit.”

By Phi Beta Kappa

Seniors Receive Honor

Three Davidson seniors have been elected to membership in the Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity. These boys will be initiated
into the fraternity sometime in early December:

Rick Altemose, a psychology major from East Stroudsburg, Pa., is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Eta Sigma, freshmen
honorary fraternity, the Eumenean Literary Society, and the International Relations Club. He holds National Merit and McConnell Scholarships.

Steve Bales, a chemistry major from Monroe, N.C., has held W. A. L. McKeithen, Dana, and Burlington Scholarships. He has
served as president of Phi Eta Sigma and treasurer and president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity. He is
a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, and has served as scholarship chairman and recording secretary of Sigma
Chi. He was also the outstanding MS-I cadet his freshman year.

Chip Robertson, a chemistry major from Richmond, Va., has served as commodore of the sailing club, secretary of Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, and president and secretary of Delta Phi Alpha. He was chairman of Stimulus in spring, 1966. He is a
member of Pi Kappa Phi, Phi Eta Sigma, the Wind Ensemble, and the Wildcat Band. A recipient of the Howard
Chemistry Award, he is doing independent research in chemistry this year.

Election to Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest of the American Greek letter societies, is generally considered the highest recognition of
scholastic achievement.

Three Members Added To Faculty

The selection of the faculty committee which will draw up a faculty constitution and revise the by-laws has now been
completed. Chosen by President D. Grier Martin are German Instructor Hansford Epes, History Professor J. A. McGeachy, and Bible Professor
Daniel Rhodes. They join Assistant Philosophy Professor A. B. Brinkley, Philosophy Professor George Abernethy, Assistant Economics Professor Louise Nelson, and
Assistant History Professor W. Brown Patterson, who have been elected by the faculty.

Faculty procedure has not been changed in many years. The self-study report and the enlargement of the faculty indicated that
change was needed. Matters to be changed will probably include the order of business, re-evaluation of committees, and a revamping
of the operational structure. The faculty expects these changes to provide better coordination among the faculty, facilitate business procedure, and
make the faculty position on campus issues clearer.

The recommendations of this committee are tentatively scheduled to be approved by the Trustees in May so that the new
constitution and by-laws can go into effect for the year 1967-68.
