PAGE FOUR

Jazz, Comedy, and Rock 'n Roll Set for Midwinters

By DICK DAVY
THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966

OFF-CAMPUS PARTY PLANNED
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Jazz, comedy, and rock 'n roll will set the tempo for Davidson’s Midwinters, Feb. 18-19. The Social Council has already booked the Ramsey Lewis Trio, comedian Dick Davy, and the Collegiates Combo for Friday night. Chairman Dan Campbell was planning this week to sign one of “several good possibilities” for Saturday's gaiety.

Although some of the activities are still on the planning board, Campbell predicts that Davidson’s second major dance weekend will be “real big.” On Friday night, the Ramsey Lewis Trio and Dick Davy will appear in concert from 8 to 10:30, followed by fraternity parties and a combo dance in Chambers’ basement featuring the Collegiates Combo from Greensboro. Afterwards, from 2:30 to 3:30, a breakfast will be served in the Union for $1 per person.

Saturday afternoon is “still a bit hazy," but Campbell mentioned the possibility of on-campus activities in the Union. A rock 'n roll dance at the Lake Norman House of Music will highlight Saturday night. Campbell and two other members of the Social Council attended a booking conference this week to sign the group, which Campbell promises will be in the “one to two thousand dollar range of entertainment.” Maps pinpointing the House of Music, about 15 minutes from the campus, will be available, and a bus will run back and forth for those without transportation.

In addition, Campbell said that the new management of the Union is tentatively planning a buffet or restaurant-type supper for Saturday. He also said that the Union will probably be open following Saturday night’s dance. The concert Friday will offer an experienced, well-known trio and a comedian.

Deep Snow Batters Davidson But Fails To Interrupt Classes

By MASON STEPHENSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The South's worst winter storm in years struck the Carolinas last weekend during the semester break, but “neither the rain, sleet, snow nor gloom of night” caused the cancellation of classes on Monday.

According to a local newspaper, “the governors of Virginia and Maryland declared a state of emergency and air, bus, and rail travel was halted in the northern tier of the South.” Approximately five inches of snow fell in the Charlotte area on Saturday on top of the remaining snow from the previous storm. On Monday, the mercury hovered on both sides of the zero mark in this area and dropped to -29 degrees on Mt. Mitchell. Temperatures were low throughout the South with snow on the ground in many of the states. In Atlanta, the low for Sunday was two below zero and snow covered northern Alabama and southern Mississippi.

On Sunday, almost all airports north of Charleston, S.C., were closed, and after the airports were opened, reservations were virtually impossible to secure. Bus and rail travel from Baltimore south through Virginia was halted due to the terrific drifting across the highways and railroad tracks and switches. On Sunday, the Pennsylvania Railroad canceled all trains south of Baltimore and Southern Railway was not operating into or out of Washington.

CLASSES PROCEED

When Richard C. Burts, dean of students, was questioned concerning the problem of cancellation of classes in bad weather, he said that it was dependent upon circumstances. For example, “if two feet of snow fell this afternoon, classes would not be postponed because a great majority of the students were here. But if just before Christmas holidays ended, two feet fell, then it would be a different situation since very few students are on campus.” It depends on the number of students here, Burts explained.

Burts reported that he received about 35 phone calls on Sunday about the resumption of classes on Monday, but the decision was made to hold classes due to the large number of students already on campus. He stated that no systematic polling has been made on attendance but that in his own first period Monday class, 17 out of 21 students were present. However, Dr. W. P. Minter, associate professor of political science, stated that attendance for his first period class was significantly lower.

CAMPUS NOTES

Clark, Marion Win Scholarship Awards

Billy Clark and Paul Marion recently won the annual scholarship leadership awards presented by the National Kappa Sigma Scholarship Committee. Clark and Marion received $150 and $75 respectively as part of the award. The scholarship-leadership award is competitive and is based on academic excellence and outstanding extracurricular achievements.

Clark is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, president of the Senior Class, president of Kappa Sigma, and was recently chosen as a Rhodes Scholar. Marion is president of the Junior Class, managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and has served on the editorial staff of the Wildcat Handbook.

Pianist Ruth Laredo will be presented in a free concert at 4 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 13, in Hodson Hall. Miss Laredo was chosen to represent the U.S. in the first annual exchange program of the International Federation of Jeunesses Musicales in 1963, and appeared in over 30 concerts in France and Italy under their auspices. She has appeared as soloist with the American Symphony Orchestra, the Philadelphia, the Detroit Symphony, and in recitals in New York, Washington, Baltimore, and other American cities.

Comedian Fred Smoot was unable to appear here this week due to television commitments. Smoot’s appearance was to be the first in a series of “Candlelight Cabarets” at the college. Smoot had made a verbal agreement to perform twice a night for four nights, but he became unavailable when “The Wackiest Ship in the Army,” a television show to which Smoot is under contract, “froze” the members of the show because of option renewal possibilities.

Davidson and Queens Colleges were hosts to some 150 alumni directors and public relations directors at the District III Conference of the American Alumni Council Jan. 29-Feb. 2. Among speakers addressing the conference were former North Carolina Governor Terry Sanford, Furman University President Gordon Blackwell, and William B. McGuire, president of Duke Power Co. Special guests were Alan W. McCarthy of the University of Michigan, American Alumni Council president, and George J. Cooke of Washington, D.C., the Council's executive director.

The Department of Fine Arts will again offer an evening studio art class beginning Monday. The class is designed for amateurs at all levels of interest and experience who wish to expand and explore their creative abilities and talents. Beginners will be encouraged to take part in special instruction in the techniques of drawing. Advanced members of the class can choose their own areas of interest. The class meets each Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Senior Bobby Austin is one of eight North Carolina college students who has been selected to receive Reynolds Scholarships for study at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine. The scholarship program, sponsored by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, will provide each recipient $14,000 during his four years of medical school. In addition, the foundation will supplement the internship salary of each scholar during his fifth year of medical education, providing him an income of $5,000 for that year.

Austin, who will receive the BS degree in June, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Austin of Monroe. He is a Dana Scholar, a Dean's List student, a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta and Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternities, and Pi Kappa Alpha.Period class on Monday was “rotten.” Only one-third of the students were present for the class.

MAINTENANCE ADJUSTS
Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, said that his department “has been doing what it can.” Just as the college experimented with a leaf machine earlier this fall, the maintenance staff is trying out a “snow blower” on the walks this winter. Meetze also said his department was using chemicals and shovels as in the past. “There are different types of snow. On the icy types, chemicals are used, but when it is falling, there is not much to do until it stops.” Shovels were issued to the janitors in order to clear the approaches to the different dorms on campus in “Operation Shovel Brigade.” Meetze said that the walks were better this year, but he is still not satisfied. Another problem, he said, is the entrances to the different buildings on campus where ice forms easily. He said that the snow blower did not work well in the fine powdery snow which fell during the weekend, but on the usual snow for the Carolinas, the blower will do the job. “We don’t have enough snow to become really proficient at clearing it,” Meetze concluded.

It appears that the Davidson “gentlemen” are acting more gentlemanly this year in contrast to previous years. The maintenance department has had to replace fewer windows broken during snowball battles.

Signed-After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott
Fredericksen
Martin
S. Scott
Bondurant
Holland
McGill
Stroud
Burts
King
Minter
Wolf
Covington
Lloyd
Mrs. Nicholls
Workman
Daggy
Marrotte
Richey

Registrar Eyes Late Teachers
Changing schedules, dropping classes, and arranging easy courses can often necessitate a long wait in the Registrar's Office. While standing there awaiting your turn, have you ever glanced over at the right wall and seen the cardboard chart taped to it? A squint and perhaps a craning of the neck reveals that it is a list of professors’ names followed by several small squares. The squares are colored either black or red. The title reveals that the chart is a record of which professors are prompt about turning in their grades and which are slack in their duty.

Registrar Hengeveld responded with a chuckle when asked about it. “We've been posting those charts for several years now, and we've had a lot of fun with it.” He explained that there is no requirement for the chart, and that professors are not penalized for being late in turning in their grades. “It's purely psychological,” Hengeveld continued, “sort of a game.” The chart was originated as an effort to get grades in to the registrar on time and thus to the students sooner. “In most cases,” he remarked, “it has worked very well. The squares are marked black for ‘on time’ and red for ‘late.’ Not many professors let the red squares mount up.” Another incentive is that the registrar suggests that the deans and the president come by every once in a while and take a look at the chart, “just to check up.” The practical advantage of the system is that it makes things easier for the registrar. The grades get in sooner, for one thing, and he can predict, on the basis of the patterns over the years, which professors will be late and which will be on time.

The Ramsey Lewis Trio, “The Gentlemen of Jazz,” is perhaps the most entertaining jazz trio in the country. A lively remnant of the Clefs, a seven-piece dance band from Chicago, the Trio still has a large following in the Midwest. The group has appeared in festivals and concerts all over the country, including several college appearances, and has cut five albums and a number of singles.

Dick Davy, a 32-year-old Arkansas hillbilly, who got his start in a Greenwich Village coffee shop, made his first professional engagement last fall. Since then, Davy, a schoolteacher of delinquent boys and a veteran of the picket lines, has appeared on television and in several nightclubs. He made his first album in November. Called a “young Will Rogers,” Davy directs his dialogue toward city folk and current controversy.

VESPERS SPEAKERS
Feb. 6 The Rev. John Oliver Nelson, director of Kirkridge, Bangor, Pa.
Feb. 13 The Rev. Howard G. Hageman, minister, The North Church, Newark, N.J.
Feb. 20 The Rev. Will H. Terry, chaplain, Davidson College.
Feb. 27 The Rev. Harold M. Warehime, professor of Christianity and Society, Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, Louisville, Ky.
March 6 The Rev. Fred J. Denbeaux, professor of Biblical History, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass.
March 13 The Rev. Will H. Terry.
March 20 The Rev. John S. Brown, minister, Ginter Park Presbyterian Church, Richmond, Va.
April 10 The Rev. William Muehl, professor of Practical Theology, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
April 17 Musical Program.
April 24 The Rev. John A. Redhead, minister, First Presbyterian Church, Greensboro.
May 1 The Rev. Carl R. Pritchett, minister, Bethesda Presbyterian Church, Bethesda, Md.
May 8 The Rev. Carlyle Marney, minister, Myers Park Baptist Church, Charlotte.
May 15 The Rev. Dan McCall, minister, Brevard Presbyterian Church, Brevard.
May 22 The Rev. Will H. Terry.

Lettermen To Appear For Charlotte Concert
The Lettermen are coming to Charlotte for a concert Feb. 8. The trio is scheduled to perform at Oven's Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. The group is noted for their vocal styling which combines the best of harmony and solo parts. The Lettermen are Tony Butala, Jim Pike, and Bob Engemann, who will present a program of folk and popular songs. The Lettermen have appeared at more than 350 colleges throughout the country. Their albums number among the million sellers. The group has toured the nightclub circuit where they have presented some vocal impressions and instrumental numbers in addition to their singing. Tickets for the concert are now on sale at the College Union.

NOTICE
A limited number of positions on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff are available to interested freshmen or upperclassmen. Anyone interested in news reporting or feature writing should contact News Editor Sam Boyte or Feature Editor Hoyward Carter or any member of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff.

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW! STEP OUT FRONT
Don’t look now. But a keen machine called Toronado has designs on you. Out to get you with front wheel drive that puts the traction where the action is! Extra stretch-out room for six. (Flat floors, you know.) Full-view side windows. Draft-free ventilation. Front and rear seat belts, back-ups and a raft of other standard safety etceteras. Like we say, Toronado has designs on you. Or is it the other way around?

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW! STEP OUT FRONT
’66 TORONADO • NINETY-EIGHT • DELTA 88 • DYNAMIC 88 • JETSTAR 88 • CUTLASS • F-85 • VISTA-CRUISER • STARFIRE • 4-4-2
OLDSMOBILE GREAT CARS FROM THE TORONADO TO THE 4-4-2. SEE YOUR LOCAL AUTHORIZED OLDSMOBILE QUALITY DEALER TODAY!