The Davidsonian Page Six November 18, 1966

YRC Speaker Explains Republican Victories

Dick Barnwell, defeated Republican candidate for Congress in the Sixth District, spoke to the Davidson Young Republicans Wednesday night on
the outcome of the election and the future of the GOP in North Carolina. Barnwell, who was defeated by incumbent
Horace Kornegay by less than 2200 votes in the election, pointed to the significant effect on future legislation due to
the Republican victories on the national level as well as in North Carolina.

The Republican gains, said Barnwell, were due to the fact that the electorate "was fed up with federal and Great
Society encroachment on things like property rights." He called the northern liberal leaders against the present civil rights movement because
of their leadership and support of legislation which has resulted in property encroachment and the breakdown of law and order
as illustrated by the recent riots. Other reasons for the Republican gains were a protest against the rising cost of
living and the present administration's use of a "no-win policy" in Vietnam, cited Barnwell.

Barnwell said that there were problems in North Carolina for the GOP but that great strides had been made as
the result of the last election. Newly-won gains in county and municipal elections and additional seats in the legislature plus
the election of James Gardner to the U.S. Congress give the North Carolina Republican Party a broad base for the
future.

Barnwell graduated from Davidson and is a former president of the Davidson Beta Theta Pi chapter. While here he roomed
with Dr. Samuel D. Maloney, Professor of Religion.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

‘FED UP’ Dick Barnwell Analyzes Vote

The Fraternity Social Chairman's Association has been recently organized to promote better coordination of social events at Davidson. Members of
this association include the social chairman of each fraternity, the social chairman of Lingle Manor, the chairman of the Social
Council, and the social director of the College Union. The purpose of this association is to...

Debaters’ 7-9 Score Shows Improvement

The Davidson debaters improved over their showing at Emory University two weeks ago by posting a 7-9 record at the
University of South Carolina Debate Tournament last Thursday through Saturday.

Regulations Board Demands End To Property Destruction

By BOB DUNHAM Staff Writer

“We are seeking the cooperation of the student body in our effort to stop this needless destruction of property.” So
spoke Paul Marion, chairman of the Student Regulations Board, in reference to the removal and abuse of fire extinguishers from
dormitory halls. This problem, according to Marion, is the prime concern of the board at this time. Although it is
considering other violations of student regulations, the board wishes to correct this problem before it becomes more serious.

Marion pointed out that there have been increased incidents of burnings in the halls this semester. This coupled with the
removal of the extinguishers presents a dangerous situation. “The Davidson Fire Department is on a volunteer basis; consequently, any fire
which might break out on campus could possibly spread out of control before equipment reached the scene of the fire.
The extinguishers offer the only prevention against such an occurrence.”

“The chance of a serious fire breaking out is slim,” he said, but he added, “it is best to play
it safe, and be prepared for the improbable.”

Marion stated that the investigation committee for the Student Regulations Board has checked into the repeated abuse and removal of
the extinguishers, but that they have received little cooperation from the rest of the students. To stop the problem the
committee plans to select people on each hall to report any missing extinguishers and to prevent further removal or abuse.

In addition, Marion stated that Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, will bill individual residents on each hall in which
damage occurs. He pointed out that tampering with the extinguishers and/or burning in the halls are student regulations violations and
will be treated as such, under the regulation concerning destruction of property.

Stewart Seeks Action By Church For Negro

Churchmen who have too long neglected their duty to the Negroes and the poor must now take over at the
saturation point of anti-poverty laws and civil rights laws, according to yesterday's chapel speaker, the Rev. Bill Stewart. Stewart, minister
at Seigle Avenue...

Candidates Present Platforms

Mooly

Because it is often the incoming freshman’s first introduction to what Davidson is “really” like, it is important that the
Wildcat Handbook be of the highest possible quality. It must inform the freshman about what is expected of him in
all areas of campus life. In short, the purpose of the Handbook is to facilitate the adjustment of the incoming
student.

The first prerequisite for a good Handbook is accurate copy. The Student-Body Constitution and Faculty Regulations must be brought up
to date and the more important points clarified. In this regard, I would reprint, as a section of the Handbook,
the Honor Court's pamphlet on the Davidson honor system. This pamphlet, which includes a brief history of the honor system
and explicit definitions of honor offenses, would thus be available to all students in a booklet which is more likely
to be read and kept.

The copy should also include a revised list of faculty addresses and phone numbers, an improved map of Charlotte, showing
the most direct route to Queens, and a corrected list of the dorm phones of girls’ schools in the immediate
area. The social life section should include a description of places to go and things to do in Charlotte (restaurants,
clubs, theaters, etc.) and what the freshman can expect to spend where. Information concerning car rentals and approved places to
keep girls on dance weekends should be provided.

The ’67 Handbook might well give a more extensive description of activities open to freshmen through the College Union and
the intramural athletic program. An additional section concerning academics would be immediately helpful to the freshmen. In working as a
hall counselor, I discovered that one of the most pressing problems facing the new student is that of course selection,
especially with regard to the language requirement. A description of the course options open to the freshman would at least
allow him to give this important area some consideration before he reaches campus.

Because the ’66 Handbook costs approximately $600 less than its prescribed budget, it is safe to assume that the ’67
Handbook could be greatly enlarged in scope with regard to size and content, number of pictures, and cover printing. These
suggestions are indicative of my desire to make the Wildcat Handbook a publication of the highest quality.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Head Photographer:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Joe Jones, Tom Wheatly, Bruce Weihe, Ed Embree, Ken Cool, John Barber, Marvin Ellison, Franklin Anderson, Kenneth Hamilton, William Farris,
Bob Dunham, Robert Pyeatt, Jim Cooley, Gary Sigmon, Dale Durham, Danny White, Charles Brockwell, Charles Elliott, Rick Saunders, Cliff Duke,
K. D. Weeks, Don Sewell, George Robinson, Lewis Lavine, and George Cretekos.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.The text has
been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ly stands as an adequate guide to the tangible aspects of Davidson—the administration, regulations, and sports, for example. However, there
should be a clearer presentation of the intangibles of Davidson, stating how Davidson lives up to its reputation as a
“small, liberal arts college,” how its social opportunities can be utilized, and how Davidson compares with other schools in its
general atmosphere and outlook. I believe that the Handbook should present the explanations for the present situation at Davidson, so
the freshmen can realize before they get here what awaits them. Instead of stating that Davidson is a church-related institution,
the Handbook should first answer whether Davidson realistically is church-centered. Concerning academics, the Handbook should investigate the current course evaluation
study of the faculty and the Student Council. Also, there should be a look at the academic requirements, relating to
their effect on graduate school entrance, transfer requirements, and major requirements. There could be a section on fraternities that not
only mentions what fraternities have chapters at Davidson, but also points to the role of fraternities—whether that role is changing
and, if so, in what direction. In these ways, I feel that the undercurrents causing a turnabout in the traditional
Davidson atmosphere could be better explained to the incoming freshman before he arrives on campus. There are a number of
specific changes I would like to see in the Handbook. Since the freshmen are on their own first semester, a
fold-out map of Charlotte should be included, containing a marked route to Queens, plus locating the Coliseum, Memorial Stadium, and
several restaurants and nightclubs where Davidson students gather. A map of North Carolina with the major schools pinpointed could also
be added. Phone numbers of girls’ dorms should be placed in one section, marking the numbers of freshmen dorms and
listing the phone rates to the various schools. If the administration could assign room numbers earlier in the year, I
would like to add room numbers below each Davidson freshman's picture to aid in rush. The format and layout of
last year's Handbook were excellent, and I would therefore not alter the general presentation. Basically, what I hope to accomplish
would be in stressing a challenge to the incoming class of 1971 to improve upon the existing situations.

Reverend Stewart of Avenue Presbyterian Church in Charlotte based his talk on the Belmont Park area in Charlotte, which has
been infiltrated by Negroes to such an extent that whites are moving out as fast as Negroes move in. The
cause of this problem both here and in the Piedmont Court area is, according to Mr. Stewart, “the white power
structure in Charlotte.” He went on to say that there are three main types of segregation in Charlotte: economic, geographical,
and racial. Stewart went on to say that the youth had begun to lose hope in the possibility of changing
the present structure because society is now just a means by which men use each other. The present structure of
society is “dog eat dog (in which) the survivor gets the top of the totem pole.” The function of the
church is now to provide a chance for religious, economic, and social involvement in society for the underprivileged. Our middle-class
church, though, “doesn’t know these people, (and) they don't trust us.” Stewart believes that what is needed is church-state cooperation,
despite the fact that this would violate the principle of separation between church and state. This principle, Stewart claims, has
been a “factor in continuing segregation.” In a coffee hour in the union after chapel, Stewart went on to say
that he has seen “inactivity in the past two years in the Negro community” and has come to understand the
“attitudes of the power structure itself.” He claimed that the “civil rights movement is dead because it no longer deals
with human integrity, the anti-poverty program is dead, and we may have reached the saturation point in legislation, (and so)
now someone must take the initiative to put (human rights) in action... This is the role of the church... Pronouncements
on paper don’t mean much, (but) money and action do.”

Sophomore Shep Johnston filled in for Greg Haynes, a speaker award winner at Emory, as the teams were rearranged for
the tournament. Tom Rhodes and Fletcher Hartsell finished with a 4-4 record and wins over Navy, Mercer, Washington and Lee,
and Georgia. Johnston and Jim Cooley finished 3-5. Their wins came over Georgia and over two different Mercer teams. A
tie debate with William and Mary went down as a loss and kept them from also breaking even. Emory University
assumed the spoiler's role for the Davidson team. Each of the two Davidson teams faced an Emory team twice, and
all four decisions were awarded to the more experienced Emory squads. Cooley had the highest individual point total for the
team with 179 points in eight rounds of debate. The varsity squad has a three-week lay-off in which to prepare
for the Dixie Classic Debate Tournament at Wake Forest College December 1-3. A finish in the top eight at this
tournament would merit an invitation to the University of Chicago’s Tournament of Champions in March.

Delco Dry Charge BATTERIES “For Fresh Starts” Simply Say Delco” Ask For Davidson Discount CHARLOTTE BATTERY CO. 1308 Central Ave.
375-3258

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414

Social Chairmen Unite To Co-Ordinate Events

The Fraternity Social Chairman’s Association’s stated mission is “to assure cooperation among the social organizations and to promote efficiency in
the operation of social activities affiliated with Davidson College.” Andy Beard, social chairman of Beta Theta Pi, stated that this
association provides “a means of communication” between the fraternities. The Fraternity Social Chairman’s Association is in the process of compiling
a central file which would include information such as places for parties, ratings of combos, and the names of major
booking agents.

ODK To Feature College President

Walter R. Coppedge, president of the College of Charleston in Charleston, S. C., will speak in chapel Tuesday at the
fall tapping of Omicron Delta Kappa. ODK is a national honorary fraternity recognizing juniors and seniors who have demonstrated leadership
in various fields of campus endeavors. Only seniors are tapped during the fall ceremony. Coppedge will speak on “Time and
a Liberal Education.” A native of Mexico, Coppedge attended Davidson before transferring to the University of Mississippi. He received one
of the original Woodrow Wilson grants and studied at Princeton. He subsequently received a Rhodes Scholarship and studied at Oxford
University.

STUDY IN SOUTHERN FRANCE

A University year in Aix-en-Provence under the auspices of the University of Aix-Marseille (founded 1409).

EUROPEAN AREA STUDIES FRENCH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE (courses in French University exclusively) ART AND ART HISTORY SOCIAL SCIENCES MEDITERRANEAN AREA
STUDIES

Classes in English and French satisfying curriculum and credit requirements of over 280 American Colleges and Universities. Students live in
French homes. Total costs equivalent to those at private universities and colleges in the United States.

Write: INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES (founded 1957) 2 bis, rue du Bon Pasteur AIX-EN-PROVENCE, FRANCE Telephone: France (Code 91) 27.62.39
or (Code 91) 27.69.01

Davidsonians and Guests! Congratulations and best wishes. Have an exciting Concert weekend. Natural Shoulder Shops TATE-BROWN'S CHARLOTTE THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN—126
S. TRYON ST. COTSWOLD — WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER
