BEHIND THE SCENES OF NEWSPAPER LIFE (See Page Three)

VOL. LV

ROTC Announces Officers

Jerry Blackstock will assume command of the ROTC Cadet Brigade at next Tuesday's drill. Serving on his staff for this
semester are Jim Hollandsworth, executive officer; Dave Powell, adjutant; Britt Snider, intelligence; Bill McGuire, operations; and Dave Townsend, supply. Commanding
officer of the First Battalion will be Pack Hindsley. David Meschan will serve as battalion executive officer as well as
battalion adjutant. Others on the staff are Arnie Snider, intelligence; Pinckney Whitson, operations; and Cam Harkness, supply. The Second Battalion
will be commanded by Dave Sprinkle with Sam Gibbs doubling as executive officer and adjutant for the battalion. Others on
the staff are Johnny Little, intelligence; Bob Slaton, operations; and Jim Beachum, supply. Assuming posts as company commanders are Jim
Rollins, Company A; Jim Kopp, Company B; John Adams, Company C; Arnie Goodstein, Company D; Steve Smith, Company E; Pete
Caldwell, Company F; Bill Burch, Band; and Dick Short, Honor Guard.

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Faster than a bullet? More powerful than a speeding locomotive? Able to leap tall buildings in a single bound? No,
our hero can do none of these unreal deeds because, unlike the comic character endowed with the above “super-powers,” he
is not fictitious. He is real. His home—Gotham City, U.S.A. His powers—great natural physical ability. His purpose—to put an end
to crime and violence. His identity—Batman!!

Here at Davidson, Bruce Wayne, alias the Masked Wonder, Batman, and his loyal sidekick Robin, Boy Wonder, have become a
vital part of the week's activities. From every campus television set—whether in the Union or along Patterson Court—the deeds of
this Winged Marvel shine forth every Wednesday and Thursday night. His hushed fans grasp every word, breaking out of their
reveries only to cheer loudly his almost unbelievably heroic actions. But then, to his many fans, nothing Batman does is
unbelievable. To fight for law and order he has assembled the most efficient collection of crime-fighting tools in the world.
His batbelt alone is an arsenal of justice. His laboratory, his batcar, and his disguise as wealthy millionaire playboy Bruce
Wayne are all part of his power against the denizens of the underworld. The underworld contains: The Joker, the Penguin,
the Riddler, and countless other crafty culprits haunt its depths, striking suddenly at society, calling forth again and again the
Scourge of Crime and the Boy Wonder. What would Gotham City do without its number-one citizen? Without Batman, Gotham City
would probably be sacked, looted, and generally devastated within a couple of weeks. Without Batman, Davidson College would probably return
to the old, humdrum, middle-of-the-week life it suffered before the appearance of our Super Hero. As it is, fans eagerly
await each middle-of-the-week episode with more expectation than for a Homer Smith football game. Most of them come a half
hour early so they can once again see their hero's exploits in last week's episode on a different channel from
the current week's drama. Even the professors have been affected by Batman. Most embarrassedly decline comment when asked their opinion
on the Winged Wonder or when queried as to their favorite Super Villain. Some, like Dr. Malcolm Lester, who learned
Batman was the cause of a time change in his History Honors course, are merely beginning to learn of our
hero's power.

The cause of Batman's popularity has been debated a good deal since his first bout with crime on channel 8.
It has been attributed most often to the fact that our hero is “half-camp, half-kid,” or, to put it another
way, he is so ‘kid’ that he's “camp.” For the uninitiated, that means that the show is so very, very
bad it's good... or as one of the Caped Crusader’s Batfans would say, “It's Batastic!”

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966

Committee Advocates
(Cartoon by Holladay)

NEW CAMPUS SCORNS SUPER-POWERS
Batman Depends On Human Powers In Fight Against Crime
Batman Captures Fancy Of Campus TV World

Following are the recommendations of the Social Life Evaluation Committee, which will be submitted to the faculty Tuesday. (See adjoining
story):

1. That the 1966-67 freshman class will live in freshman dormitories and take part in freshman intramurals for the entire
year.
2. That the 1966-67 freshman class eat in College Union both semesters.
3. That fraternity houses be off-limits to freshmen after 7:30 p.m. Monday-Friday. The Dean of Students office may make exceptions
to this rule when it seems appropriate.
4. That the Administration be asked to declare a moratorium on any increases in the fraternity housing fee until September,
1968.
5. That the faculty formally express its feeling that the new Social Council has made a significant contribution to life
on the campus and recommends that its work continue.
6. That a student-faculty committee be given the responsibility to ensure that a superior level of food service is maintained.
7. That the 1966-67 formal rushing take place after the first semester of the 1966-67 school year.
8. That contact between freshmen and upperclassmen during the first semester be unrestricted with the following exceptions:
A. That no unauthorized upperclassmen shall be in freshman dormitories after 7:30 p.m. Monday-Friday.
B. That no freshmen shall be in fraternity houses after 7:30 p.m. Monday-Friday.
9. That the Interfraternity Council submit to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and Social Life by March 1, 1967, a
workable plan whereby every freshman desiring a bid gets one. This plan would go into effect for rush during 1967-68.
We would place on the nature of this plan only the restriction that in such a system every student shall
be given the opportunity of remaining a pledge for at least one year with the ordinarily permitted house and eating
privileges of the house.

The proposal, one of a series of recommendations which would bring sweeping changes to the present rush structure, was revealed
to fraternity presidents and members of the Interfraternity Council in a meeting this afternoon. The Committee, chaired by Dr. W.
G. Workman, professor of psychology, will present its ideas to the faculty Tuesday and ask for approval of the proposals.
Other proposals would act to postpone the formal rush period, while at the same time liberalize restrictions on informal rush.
The recommendations ask that formal rush be delayed until the conclusion of the first semester of the year 1966-67. At
the same time, restrictions on contact between freshmen and upperclassmen would be almost completely removed, with several exceptions: after 7:30
p.m. on week-nights, upperclassmen will not be allowed in freshman dorms and freshmen are not to be in fraternity houses,
if the recommendations are approved. The committee also recommended that freshmen eat in the College Union and participate in freshman
intramurals both semesters. In addition, it expressed approval of the work of the new Social Council and urged that it
should continue its work. Actual implementation of the plan to assure all interested freshmen a bid would be left up
to the IFC, with the only restriction being that each individual concerned would be granted the opportunity of remaining a
pledge for at least one year. According to the recommendations, such a plan would not be operative next year but
would go into effect during the year 1967-68.

The Social Life Evaluation Committee was formed last spring at the request of the faculty. Faculty and administration members appointed
by President D. G. Martin include Chairman Workman; Dr. A. S. Abbott, assistant professor of English; Dr. S. D. Maloney,
associate professor of Bible; Hansford M. Epes, instructor in German; Chaplain Will Terry; and non-voting member Tom Covington, assistant dean
of students and fraternity liaison officer. Student members are seniors John Burks, George Kuykendall, and Paul Simpson and sophomore Tom
Earnhardt. The committee has met several times weekly since September to study problems of the social life of the Davidson
student. “Most of the problems,” explained Epes, “are involved with much more than simply the fraternity system. We have, however,
tried working within the framework of the fraternity system to come up with plans which show promise of ameliorating these
problems.” A number of groups, including the Freshman Council, Social Council, IFC, and fraternity treasurers, were invited to express their
opinions to the committee during the semester, Workman said. In addition, each fraternity submitted, as a unit, a statement on
its position on the role of fraternities in the overall structure of life at Davidson. Though Workman admitted that it
would be foolish to expect that a complete solution to the Davidson student's social problem had been found, he expressed
hope that the proposals would be approved by the faculty, as a forward step in improving the social atmosphere on
the campus.

MIDWINTERS PLANS PARTIALLY SET (See Page Four)

NUMBER SIXTEEN

D. G. MARTIN

AAC Elects Martin Treasurer

President D. Grier Martin was recently elected treasurer of the Association of American Colleges at their 52nd annual meeting in
Philadelphia, Pa. As treasurer, he automatically becomes a member of the Board of Directors. The AAC is the foremost association
of college presidents in the United States. The AAC, an organization of liberal arts colleges, primarily private and church-related, coordinates
projects among its members.members. It deals with the particular needs of its members and initiates new types of programs (such
as the Humanities program at Davidson). It is divided into several divisions which do research on various projects. The new
chairman of this organization is the Most Rev. James P. Shannon, president of the College of St. Thomas in Minnesota.

No Election Planned To Fill Council Vacancy

The vacancy created by the departure of Student Council Second Vice-President Chuck Matthews will not be filled until the upcoming
student-wide elections, it was decided Monday by the Student Council.

Matthews, studying this semester in Washington, D.C., will return to Davidson next fall. According to the Student Body Constitution, Matthews’
unexpired term should be filled by a special election. “However,” stated Bill Council, student body president, “since there is such
a short period (less than two weeks) between a proposed special election and the regular elections, there is no reason
to fill the term by election.”

Arrangements were made for the distribution and collection of student body questionnaires to be handled during chapel on Thursday. These
questionnaires concern ideas on Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday schedules, and exam and review regulations. The faculty reaction to the new student body drinking
regulations was also discussed. Council voiced that the faculty, “although pledged to a dry campus, would probably take no extreme
action unless serious disturbances in the dorms and grounds arose.”

Discussion on other actions, such as the method of selecting future chairmen of the social council, and the Kuykendall petition,
was postponed until next week's meeting. The Kuykendall petition, entailing a revision of Honor Court procedures, will be worked on
by the Student Council in conjunction with the Honor Court. A student body vote on the petition will probably be
held within the next few weeks.

J. O. Nelson To Be Vespers Speaker

Dr. John Oliver Nelson, professor of Christian Vocation and director of field work at Yale Divinity School, will be the
guest speaker at Vespers Sunday and at chapel the following day. Dr. Nelson, a native of Pittsburgh, received his BA
from Princeton University, his BD from McCormick Theological Seminary, and his PhD from Yale University.

A noted clergyman as well as educator, he has served on a number of commissions for the National Council of
Churches and the Presbyterian Church. At the present time Dr. Nelson is president of Kirkridge, Inc., Bangor, Pa.; corporator of
the Presbyterian Ministers’ Fund and a member of the National Board of the YMCA. Dr. Nelson is the author of
a number of books including America Inherits Religion, Look at the Ministry and Protestant Religious Vocations. He served as editor
of The Intercollegian Magazine from 1943 to 1950 and also edited The Student Prayerbook.

Three Changes Asked In Honor System Setup

By MIKE POWELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Three major proposed changes in Davidson’s Honor System and in the structure of the Honor Court will be presented to
the student body in Tuesday's chapel. The changes are in the form of three proposed amendments to the Student Body
Constitution. Official voting by the student body has been set for one week from Tuesday.

The first proposed amendment states that Article V, Section 5 of the Student Body Constitution shall be changed to read:
“Trial procedures shall be determined by the Honor Court and made available to the student body. This shall include an
investigation committee of three members elected by the Student Council and a defense advisor elected by the student body who
shall perform their duties as prescribed in the Honor Court procedure.”

“ORDINARILY”

The second states that the word “ordinarily” shall be inserted in the Honor Code, Article VII, Section 5, so that
this article would read: “Every student found guilty of violating any section of this Article shall ordinarily be dismissed from
the college.”

The third proposed amendment reads as follows: Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution shall be deleted as it now
reads and shall be replaced by an article which shall read: “The purpose of the Honor Court shall be to
encourage and maintain the honor of the student body. Since Davidson strives to be a Christian college and thus recognizes
both a concern for understanding and compassion as well as for justice and honor, the Court shall implement its purpose
through instilling in the student body an awareness of the basic principles of honor, through administering the Honor System, and
through enforcing its decisions as it sees fit in the light of each individual case.”

DISCUSSIONS

The three proposals are the result of discussions which have been taking place among members of the Honor Court and
the student body since before Christmas. Also influential in the proposals was a petition presented to the Student Council during
the first days of January by a group of 51 Davidson students. This petition was read to the entire student
body at that time, but George Kuykendall, organizer of the petition, agreed at that time to postpone voting on the
petition until second semester so that freshmen would be eligible to vote.

In the interim the Honor Court codified the proposals they had been discussing and after discussion with Kuykendall combined their
proposals with those contained in his petition to form the three proposed amendments to be presented Tuesday.

Concerning the final proposals, Kuykendall told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he believes the changes in his proposals recommended to him by
the Honor Court proposals will carry out the purposes of his recommendations, but in a better way. Jim Stokes, chairman
of the Honor Court, said of the three new proposals: “I think this is a significant improvement in the (Honor
Court) procedure since it takes the investigative function out of the hands of those who make the final decision on
an honor offense.”

To complete their proposals, the Honor Court has detailed the duties of the new investigative committee and the defense advisor.
Pending student body approval of the first proposed amendment, the following duties and specifications for the new officers will be
added to the Honor Court trial procedure:

“An investigation committee separate from the Honor Court, which shall be composed of two seniors and one junior shall be
elected from the student body each year by the Student Council. This committee shall investigate all violations of the Honor
System and the Student Body Regulations which are reported. The committee shall designate one of its members, to be called
the investigator, to present the facts of the alleged violation to the Honor Court if a trial is necessary. The
investigator shall function solely as a witness. The investigation committee shall consider whatever information it may gather as strictly confidential.

“A defense advisor separate from the Honor Court, who shall be a senior elected by the student body, shall inform
the accused of his rights before and during a trial and shall see that these rights are maintained. The defense
advisor shall have the privilege of questioning any witnesses in order that all information in behalf of the accused may
be presented. The defense advisor shall leave the courtroom during recesses.

“A committee, which shall be composed of the three members of the investigation committee, the defense advisor, and the chairman
of the Honor Court, shall determine if the evidence of a violation of the Honor System or Student Body Regulations
warrants a trial.”

Administration Vows To Enforce College Drinking Regulation

By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The college administration intends to enforce the faculty's drinking rule despite its repeal from the student body constitution, according to
President D. Grier Martin. The rule, which has been adopted jointly by the faculty and trustees, states that “no student
shall consume or be under the influence of alcoholic beverages” while he is on the Davidson campus (including the town
of Davidson) or on the Lake Campus. This rule, however, does not prohibit keeping alcohol in the locked trunks of
student automobiles.

Students also are prohibited by this rule from possessing or being under the influence of alcohol while attending any function
off campus which is sponsored by the college or in which students representing the college are participating.

“I want to be sure there is no genuine ignorance about what the situation is,” commented Martin. “Restrictions are still
in effect. As long as we have these regulations, we intend to enforce them.”

The feelings of several faculty members concerning the change voted by the students shortly before exams was that there would
be little practical change in enforcement of any prohibitive restrictions. Dr. Louise Nelson, assistant professor of economics, commented that the
change makes little difference since there had never been very much student enforcement of the drinking rule except by Honor
Court and Student Council members. “Within the bounds of good taste, I don’t think where the alcohol is kept is
a question at all,” Miss Nelson commented. “I do not think it realistic that students enforce a strict version of
a drinking rule.

“I think,” she continued, “that the gentlemanly conduct clause can cover offenses related to drinking, and I do think the
students will enforce the gentlemanly conduct rule.”

“I think it’s a healthy thing if the students are going to govern their affairs that they make rules they
believe in and are willing to enforce,” commented Dr. Philip Secor, assistant professor of political science. “On the other hand,
I think the faculty has a right to make rules governing student conduct,” he added. “The change which the students
have made tends to clear the air; I don't think the question of faculty and administration enforcement will come up
at all unless there are incidents which embarrass the college,” Secor concluded.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts voiced his disappointment with student repeal of the drinking rule. Commenting that the rule
had been “a fine part of student outlook at Davidson,” he added, “I don't think the change will make any
practical difference.”

He stated that some problems with vandalism resulting from student drinking have developed, pointing out that this creates a conflict
concerning whether offenders should be tried by the Honor Court for destroying college property or by the faculty for being
under the influence. Burts said he believes that student leaders should make an attempt to enforce the rule respecting damage
to college property since the referendum was supposed to express student opinion concerning which rules they wished enforced.
