Page Six September 30, 1966

The Davidsonian

Fraternities Act To Remove Racial Discrimination Rules

By ED EMBREE Staff Writer

All but one of Davidson's social fraternities have complied with the Board of Trustees’ anti-discriminatory clause. Official compliance with the clause, due Sept. 1, has been received from the national organizations of 11 fraternities. The remaining fraternity is expected to comply in the near future, reported Fraternity Liaison Officer Tom Covington.

Covington said that the sole delay has been caused by the illness of one of the top national fraternity officers who has not been available to sign the necessary statement.

The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life, acting on the recommendation of a Student Council Fraternity Evaluation Committee of students and faculty, proposed to the faculty meeting of April 13, 1965, the acceptance of a clause which stated that fraternities would have to give official satisfaction to the college by Sept. 1, 1966, under penalty of removal from campus, that all Davidson students are eligible for initiation.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts reported that the clause was the outgrowth of the Student Council committee which recommended the clause in both the majority and minority reports to the faculty committee. In December of 1964, as the faculty was studying the report, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill took similar action with its fraternities. Dean Burts stated that “the Carolina action probably had some bearing on the faculty action. We would have done it anyway, but it did give us support in our action.”

Following faculty approval of the clause, the Board of Trustees also passed the clause “with little dissent that I know of,” said Burts. Dr. W. F. Workman, chairman of the faculty committee which studied the proposal, stated that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 probably did not change anyone's opinion, although the civil rights movement probably did influence some of the faculty.

When asked what prompted the initial student-faculty recommendation, Burts responded that there were two factors. “It seems to be a ‘sign of the times’ with colleges and universities from all parts of the nation requiring such compliances from their fraternities. Also, Davidson was concerned with the problem of admitting students who did not have the opportunity to fully partake of all the benefits of Davidson College life.”

Covington stated that all the fraternities have been very cooperative in complying with the clauses. “Generally alumni on the national level,” he said, “have resisted such changes while the active chapters have genuinely tried to adapt to changes.”

Although the Davidson alumni were active in the fraternity question in 1965, there has not been any reaction to this specific clause. Bill Kendrick, president of Kappa Sigma, stated that his fraternity has never had a discriminatory clause but that all initiates of the fraternity have to be “acceptable to initiated members of the chapters.” Vince Foster explained that the same “socially acceptable” clause applies to Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Foster said that the only discrimination in the history of the fraternity was in its early years when the discrimination was directed toward “Yankees.”

Sigma Phi Epsilon President Scott Gabrielson stated that until five years ago there was no written discriminatory clause in the national constitution but there was a “strongly suggested” discriminatory practice. However, since 1960 there has been no written or informal clause. Tom Brown, president of Pi Kappa Alpha, stated that in 1961 the fraternity repealed the white clause in the constitution which left the fraternity with no discriminatory clauses. He reported that the change “was made in anticipation of administrative pressure on local chapters.”

Joel Williamson, president of Sigma Chi, reported that his fraternity has never had a discriminatory clause regarding race, religion, or national origin although the national fraternity officers, the alumni, and active members have “the privilege of balling any member of the fraternity.” Phi Delta Theta President Brooks Sheldon stated that until 1964 the only clause was one of “social acceptability.” At the '64 convention a “waiver bylaw” was passed to allow chapters under pressure to comply with administration demands. The Davidson Phi Delt chapter received notice of a waiver which implies local autonomy. At the 1966 convention, this socially acceptable clause was voted out and with another similar vote at the next convention, the clause will be completely eliminated.

In a prepared statement from the national office, the Kappa Alpha Order stated that it amended its constitution to allow the Davidson Chapter “to select its members without discrimination as to race, religion, or national origin.” Sigma Nu at Davidson has been freed from its national discriminatory clause by a “Membership Qualifications Waiver with Honor,” stated Jim Rostan, president. Rostan added that he has been assured by his national offices that no pressure will be applied to adhere to the national clause. At the 1966 convention of Sigma Nu, a motion by the Duke chapter to completely delete the clause was defeated by a slim majority. As a result, both the Duke and Bowling Green chapters are in danger of suspension by their respective administrations.

Pi Kappa Phi “has complete freedom to select members without regard to race, religion, or creed,” quoted Paul Curlee, president, from a letter to the college. Heretofore, the Davidson chapter had a waiver from the national discrimination clause, but this clause was repealed unanimously in the 1966 general convention. Curlee stated that, faced with the loss of 26 out of 55 chapters due to administration pressures, initial opposition from Southern chapters to the proposal was overcome.

Beta Theta Pi Vice-President Johnny Jeter reported that “to his recollection” the fraternity has never had a discriminatory clause and has had no problems concerning this question. Julian Fite, president of Phi Gamma Delta, stated that his fraternity used to be restricted to Caucasian persons of Christian persuasion, but the only restriction now is that the National Executive Council has to pass on all pledges. Approximately one fourth of the chapters have been granted dispensations when the school requires it, which puts the chapters (including the Davidson chapter) in a situation of “local autonomy.”

Alpha Tau Omega President Gary Devane stated that the 1966 general convention completely deleted the white-Christian clause from its constitution, giving each chapter local autonomy regarding membership. Devane reported that a third of the chapters would have been “kicked off campus” if the constitution had not been changed. Over half of the Southern chapters voted for the change while the chapters in the Midwest were generally opposed to the change.

Ratliff Discusses Work With Pakistani Students

Teaching students who at first strongly objected to the lecture-discussion method of instruction was one of the many experiences recalled by Davidson Economics Professor Charles E. Ratliff Jr. of his past three years in Pakistan. Ratliff, who had been asked to work in Pakistan by the Methodist Board of World Missions, was a Christian missionary and a professor of economics at Forman College in Lahore, Pakistan. His main purpose was to help set up MA courses in economics at Forman, which is an affiliated college of the University of Punjab. Besides teaching courses, he also advised students.performed research, wrote articles for publication, and gave lectures at the Finance Service Academy. “I was pleasantly surprised,” commented Ratliff, “that as a foreign missionary, I had the opportunity to do so many different things. I was, however, somewhat distressed at the lack of motivation among the students. I guess I went there with the naive idea that students in underdeveloped countries would be highly motivated. 

“Most boys with a chance for higher education,” he continued, “come from a very privileged, wealthy class of people. Since 81 percent of the people in Pakistan are illiterate and few get even a secondary school education, there is little way to sift through the boys and pick the most intelligent for college work. 

“The students were unfamiliar with the lecture-discussion method of teaching and at first objected strongly. They were used to memorizing facts and giving them back on tests. At the last, however, they began to realize that I was trying to teach them to think and appreciated it greatly.” 

The high spot of his trip, he explained, was a seminar on economic and commercial development sponsored by the Methodist Agricultural Extension Service and the Catholic Church. People from USAID (a government agency), from private foundations, from the Peace Corps, and from various church groups discussed what each is doing to help the economic progress of Pakistan. This discussion enabled each group to understand the work and ideas of the others.

MISSION WORK EXPLAINED
Dr. Charles E. Ratliff Tells About His Experiences In Pakistan.

Davidson Benefactor Will Speak Tuesday
Charles A. Dana, a noted Davidson financial benefactor for whom the Dana Science Laboratory is named, will speak to the student body at next Tuesday’s chapel. The purpose of the assembly, according to Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations, is to introduce the industrial magnate, politician, and philanthropist to a new generation of Davidson students. Dana has contributed the Dana Science Laboratories, the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, and the Charles A. Dana Scholarship Fund. Other colleges to which he has made contributions include the University of Toledo, John B. Stetson University, Guilford College, and Indiana Technical Institute. A man of many talents, Dana began his career by obtaining a BA and a master's degree in law from Columbia University. He worked in the district attorney's office in New York and later won a seat in the New York legislature. He became a prominent member of the Republican Party, during which time he worked with Charles Evans Hughes, later chief justice of the Supreme Court. Dana also managed one of Theodore Roosevelt’s campaigns.

GOP Office Seeker To Appear On Campus
John A. Wilkinson, Republican nominee for the North Carolina State Legislature from the five-county district comprising Beaufort, Washington, Hyde, Tyrrell, and Dare counties, will speak Wednesday in the Green Room at 7 p.m. to the Young Republicans Club and Thursday morning in chapel. A resident of Beaufort County, Wilkinson is presently a lawyer in Washington, N.C. where he serves as special consultant to Texas Gulf Sulphur. Wilkinson was Republican nominee for Congress in 1940 and for the U.S. Senate in 1948 when he led the state ticket. He has been a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1948, 1952, 1960, and 1964. Presently he is a member of the State Central Committee.

Although foreigners are not allowed to teach Bible courses in the Islam-dominated country, Dr. Ratliff was allowed to hold a voluntary chapel. “On many other occasions,” he added, “students would come to me with questions about Christianity. In this way, I was able to help many students understand our basic religious beliefs.” Commenting on his stay, Ratliff said, “I received more benefit than I gave, I am sure, both professionally, individually, and religiously. It was both an interesting and a profitable experience. The people there made us feel very much at home and invited us to come back.”

ANY ROOM FOR DESSERT?
During the first weeks of school, lunchtime has seen trays pile up as students in the cafeteria finish eating faster than cafeteria workers can move the empty trays away. (Staff Photo by Olson)

D. Grier Martin Cites Progress
President D. Grier Martin challenged the students to fulfill with a “great national purpose” the potential contained in the school's progress in an address yesterday at the presentation of new members of the faculty and administration. Quoting a former Davidson student, Woodrow Wilson, Martin said, “What good is a private college or university unless it is serving a great national purpose?” Martin pointed with pride to the progress Davidson had made in attracting quality faculty and students and to the improved compensation the school is able to give its teachers. He announced that Davidson ranks first among colleges in the South in the average compensation paid to the faculty, and fourth in the South among all colleges and universities. Saying that the provision of adequate financial resources for the educational program is a large part of his own job, Martin gave a general breakdown of the annual income of the college: $924,993 in student fees, $124,000 from the endowment income, and $473,000 from trust funds and friends for $201,000, foundation gifts for $253,000, and church support for $64,000. But he emphasized that the school attracts some other funds because it is church-related. The largest single source, he said, was the Ford Foundation challenge grant which thus far has paid $940,076. In addition, the college has raised $2,984,587 in gifts and pledges in its effort to fulfill the terms of the Ford grant.

ALL LABELS AT DISCOUNT
Folk — Rock ‘n Roll — Classical Jazz — Comedy — Country
RECORD CITY DISCOUNT
105 W. Trade St. On The Square—Downtown

HIGH INCOME JOBS ON CAMPUS
Get a high paying job on your own campus. Become a campus representative for over forty magazines, American Airlines, Operation Match, etc. and earn big part-time money doing interesting work. Apply right away! Collegiate Marketing, Dept H, 27 E. 22 St., New York, N.Y. 10010.

Swingline
Divide 30 by 44 and add 10, you have a TOT Stapler that staples eight 10-page reports or tacks 31 memos. This is the Swingline Tot Stapler variety, book store! Get it at any stationery store!

V-Neck Pullover Sweaters by COX-MOORE, LORD JEFF, VAN HEUSEN
Your choice of luxurious colors and fit only full fashioning can impart — in superlative 100% imported lamb’s wool and 100% alpaca. Come Select Yours Today.