Page Four December 2, 1966 The Davidsonian

Jackson’s New Mural Shown By Fraternity

Senior Herb Jackson, whose paintings have been placed on the Union’s walls, has completed a mural at the Alpha Tau
Omega house. “The mural,” said Jackson, “is very difficult to paint for several reasons. It is painted on such a
large scale that the painter must consider the presence of people in the room, how it will appear to them
from near or far away, the lighting in the room and other external factors.” Because such a fast-drying paint must
be used, the artist has to be positive in his approach and must have a general idea of what he
wants to paint. There is, however, no thematic content in the mural. “The mural has no name because I find
names very confusing and limiting. I give my paintings names only because it is more convenient in handling them. Because
a painting is its own entity, it should be able to exist on its own merit,” Jackson said.

Jackson further explained the stages he has gone through since he began serious painting nine years ago. He began with
landscapes and still scenes, then portraits. He next tried interpretations and now does restatements. Apologetic for having to speak in
artistic language, Jackson explained that restatement means that he creates a new entity by restatement of form. His paintings find
meaning in their own existence. As chairman and sole member of the Union Art Committee, Jackson is now displaying in
the College Union several paintings by Miss Laura Grosch, a senior at Wellesley College. This is the second show of
paintings which has been presented in the Union. The exhibit will remain on display until Christmas. The first show consisted
of several paintings done by Jackson himself. A review of his works from 1962-1965 is now on exhibit at Wellesley
College. In trying to characterize the work of Miss Grosch, Jackson explained that she is a symbolist painter who has
been influenced by three trends in art: German expressionism, primitive folk art, and art nouveau. Her symbols are very personal,
not universal, and it is not often easy to determine the meaning. Both these painters plan to attend graduate school
in fine arts next year. Miss Grosch’s paintings on exhibit at the Union are on sale at prices ranging from
$50 to $150. Jackson said his paintings usually sell for $50 to $500.

HERB JACKSON RECENTLY COMPLETED PAINTING “The Mural Is Very Difficult To Paint...” (Staff Photo By Olson)

COMING SPEAKERS

Doolin To Red China

Headlining next week's chapel speakers will be Dr. Dennis Doolin, one of the YMCA's Great Issues Speakers for this semester.
Doolin, who comes from the Hoover Institute at Stanford University, is currently an advisor on Far Eastern affairs in Washington.
In keeping with the YMCA's general topic of social revolution, Doolin will give an objective analysis of Red China in
chapel Monday. On Tuesday, Roger Conklin, naturalist, lecturer, television personality and author, is scheduled to speak on “The Challenging World
of Inner Space.” Acclaimed by audiences and the press alike, Conklin has been a frequent guest on the television shows
of Jack Paar, Johnny Carson, and Mike Douglas. He has traveled throughout the U.S. and abroad and has made over
100 appearances a year while serving as director of public relations at the Seaquarium in Miami for nearly 10 years.
Thursday's speaker will be the Rev. Dan Duraway, associate minister at Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. He will present a
summary of the thoughts of Teilhard de Chardin, a Jesuit theologian who wrote The Phenomenon of Man, concerning evolution and
theology.

ODK Taps Six New Members

Five Davidson seniors and one faculty member were tapped in chapel Nov. 22 for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary
leadership fraternity. ODK membership is awarded to those who have exhibited meritorious leadership in campus activities: scholarship, athletics, social and
religious functions, publications and forensics, dramatics, music, and other cultural activities. Membership in ODK is Davidson's highest leadership award. Walter
R. Coppedge, president of the College of Charleston, Ecumenical Institute Captures Tenor Of 20th Century Society

By MIKE BATES Staff Writer

Eight Davidson students returned Monday from a weekend at Chicago’s Ecumenical Institute. They were not the same students who left
the previous Wednesday. The Institute’s program consists of two parts: one is the training of laymen and clergymen on weeknights
and weekends; the other is their Fifth City project, a development program for the Negro ghetto around the Institute. Eight
Davidson students, a Duke Divinity School student, and one clergyman made the trip. Those attending were Frank Goldsmith, Dave Hardeman,
Bob Howard, Bobby Lane, and Robert Pyeatt. Also attending were Paul Schneider, Jim Shackleford, Mike Bates, Don Davis of Duke,
and the Rev. Paul Lowder, pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church. The trip was sponsored by the Davidson Methodist Student
Fellowship. Opinions about the Institute varied, but all were impressed by the radical commitment and total dedication of the Institute's
staff. “I had never seen anything like it before,” commented Howard, and several other students added their agreement.

MOOD DEFINED

Lectures and worship forms attempted to define and capture the new mood of the 20th-century man. This man’s comfortable illusions
about a safe and happy world have been shattered. Because he has faced...

SOUTHERN FRANCE

A University year in Aix-en-Provence under the auspices of the University of Aix-Marseille (founded 1409).

EUROPEAN AREA STUDIES FRENCH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE HONORS PROGRAM (courses in French University exclusively) ART AND ART HISTORY SOCIAL SCIENCES
MEDITERRANEAN AREA STUDIES

Classes in English and French satisfying curriculum and credit requirements of over 280 American Colleges and Universities. Students live in
French homes. Total costs equivalent to those at private universities and colleges in the United States.

“SEMESTER PROGRAM IN AVIGNON” “SUMMER PROGRAM IN AIX-EN-PROVENCE”

Write: STUDY INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES (founded 1957) 2 bis, rue du Bon Pasteur AIX-EN-PROVENCE, FRANCE Telephone: France (Code 91)
27.82.39 or (Code 91) 27.69.01non-being. He can now affirm being. He affirms positively the way life is, and this affirmation
frees him to live his life significantly. His question becomes not "Who am I?" but "What shall I do?", for
he experiences an ocean of possibilities for living his life.

WORSHIP

A morning worship at 6:30 a.m., which most of the delegation found strange at first, was held in an unheated
gymnasium. The Institute staff continually rocked rhythmically back and forth during the service, and persons who had worshipped previously at
the Institute joined them. A “dance of joy” involving a rock and roll-like hand clapping was another unusual part of
the worship. A staff member later explained that the Institute is continually experimenting in new forms of worship; the rocking
and the clapping were attempts to involve the total person in the act of corporate worship.

In the second lecture, there was a continual emphasis on the sentence, "To live is to die, and to die
is to live," which the Institute considers the heart of the New Testament. Short papers by Bultmann, Tillich, Bonhoeffer, and
Niebuhr were discussed during the weekend. The Institute's work is almost entirely supported by contributions from individuals, but none of
these donations are used for staff salaries. The staff is entirely self-supporting. Their salaries from weekday jobs are pooled and
each family draws upon the common fund according to the size of the family.

STUDENTS IMPRESSED

Concerning the staff at the Institute, Lane said, "I was most impressed by their commitment. Their commitment seemed to me
to be very nearly total, and their lives reflected it in every aspect. This commitment presented and presents both a
threat and a challenge to me." Goldsmith added, "No one came away from the weekend with a neutral reaction, for
they never claimed they weren't going to be offensive. They appear to me to have the real essence of what
any religion ought to have. Their ideas are certainly not denominational, and they seem to me to present life the
way it is for everyone in the 20th century," Goldsmith concluded.

Buy now for Christmas!

Charleston spoke on “Time and a Liberal Education” at the tapping ceremonies. Tom Brown, from Blacksburg, Va., is majoring in
history. He is president of Pi Kappa Alpha and vice president of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity. He is also
a Distinguished Military Student, a battalion commander, and a member of the Scabbard and Blade. A member of the Philanthropic
Literary Society, Brown is also a staff member on the Wildcat Handbook.

Gary DeVane, from Merritt Island, Fla., is a pre-med major, president of Alpha Tau Omega, and a member of the
Investigations Board of the Honor Court, Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med fraternity, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity. DeVane is
also an ROTC Distinguished Military Student and a freshman hall counselor.

Tom Frist, an English major from Mobile, Ala., has been secretary-treasurer of the Student Council, president of the Freshman Council,
and is a member of the YMCA Cabinet and president of Beta Theta Pi. Frist spent his junior year abroad
studying in Montpellier, France.

Herb Jackson, from Raleigh, has a double major in German and art. He is scholarship chairman of Alpha Tau Omega,
a member of the Student Curriculum Revision Committee, Stimulus, and Art Committee chairman of the Union Board. Jackson is also
a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and Eulina. He spent his junior year in Marburg, Germany.

Jimmy Poole was an all-conference quarterback this year for the Davidson football team. He is secretary of Phi Gamma Delta,
a member of the D Club, and a participant in interfraternity basketball. Poole, a psychology major, is from Charlotte.

Philip Secor, professor of political science, received his AB from Drew University, and MA and PhD degrees from Duke University.
Secor is advisor to PRAM and a participant in Stimulus discussion. He was born in Mt. Kisco, N.Y., and grew
up in New Jersey. Before coming to Davidson, Secor taught at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania.

FABULOUS DINING

International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
MAIN ST.
Davidson, N.C.

Are you sure today is homecoming?

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
CONCORD, NORTH CAROLINA
