FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1966

Champs To Face Tough Slate

TENNIS HEAD HARRY FOGLEMAN Loosens Up For Season

BILL BRIGGS Sports Editor

Last weekend ashes were all that remained from the glowing hopes that burned after Davidson romped by Rhode Island and
moved into the “Big Time” at Raleigh. Davidson was undoubtedly the tournament’s pushover. Only the mercy of opposing coaches made
the score look like a respectable romp; in reality, what we “played” was not basketball; what we “participated in” was
no contest. We played 20 minutes of basketball. Ten at the first of the first half of each game. The
rest of the time we were a clown, drawing far more laughs from the fans in Reynolds Coliseum than cheers.

This was a long basketball season, obviously too long. It was hard to argue with anyone in Raleigh who saw
us play; hard to argue we were worthy to play on the same court with Duke, St. Joe or even
Syracuse, but harder to argue that Davidson had not quit; that Davidson had not wanted to win in the first
place, or that Davidson had not poured gasoline on themselves so they would burn hotter and faster and make blacker
ashes. We stunk in the tournament. Still, it was a long basketball season and, although we must look back on
it through dirty glasses, we should not crucify yesterday’s gods for a moment of hell.

CHAMPIONS WITH A CROWN

This was the year Davidson was to fall from the top. Without Fred Hetzel and Co. last year’s powerhouse was
supposed to crumble and crack into a pile of useless, young powder-puffs. Few people in October would have predicted that
Lefty Driesell could mold a group of young, raw-talented sophomores around Dick Snyder and do better than finish second in
the conference to West Virginia. Few people in October would have predicted that the Rodney Knowles, Bobby Lane-led sophomores of
this year could fashion a 21-7 record. Three years ago the Hetzel, Don Davidson-led sophomores combined with two seasoned stars,
Terry Holland and Bill Jarman, to earn one less win and a 20-7 mark. Three years ago these sophomores whom
we have bronzed in our brains since then, could not do what an even more inexperienced team did this year.
Two years ago, then last year, these sanctified graduates failed, despite overwhelming odds favoring their success, to do the same
thing this year’s underdogs did do.

For the third straight year Davidson won the regular season Southern Conference crown. But this year, unlike the past we
can wear our crown proudly without the taint of failure in the Southern Conference finale farce. Driesell has earned his
fourth straight Southern Conference coach of the year award. With this year’s sophomores and Snyder, undoubtedly the conference’s top player
and a runaway choice for the Southern Conference player of the year, Driesell has molded another championship team. It is
a shame we have grown fat and tired of winning and become apathetic to success. But student apathy cannot deny
the success our ten-man team earned this year. In fact, it became another obstacle they overcame time and time again
— until the last when they were finally engulfed by the eight-armed colossus that pervades our campus.

Despite its ending this year’s team was a champion. It showed us this by beating our apathy and our heritage
of defeat, as well as our rivals in February’s tournament. And though we look through dirty glasses at this year,
we should have looked through even dirtier glasses last year, and the year before. Even the dirt on our glasses
cannot hide the flashes of brilliance they showed us. Even the dirt in our glasses cannot hide their crown, we
wear.

THE DAVIDSONIAN NETTERS TO OPEN MONDAY

By YATES FAISON Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s defending Southern Conference tennis champions open their 1966 season Monday afternoon against Amherst College on the Davidson courts. Coach
Harry Fogleman predicted a challenging but promising season, calling this year’s “probably the hardest schedule the school has ever had.
We play Illinois, a Big Ten power; Toledo; Harvard; Clemson and Presbyterian, all for the first time. All have fine
players and excellent teams."

Asked to list his top men, Fogleman named captain Bill Council, Esmond Phelps, Dick Hurd, Pete Parrott, Woody Faulk and
Woody Cleveland. He added, “The rest are challenging, trying to get up in there.” Fogleman said that he planned to
keep 12 men — "probably too large a squad, but there are so many of equal ability.”

Amherst College provides what Fogleman calls “a good home opener.” Following that match, the ‘Cats take on Swarthmore College on
Wednesday and East Stroudsburg State, a teachers college in Pennsylvania, on Thursday. Not much is known of the strengths of
these two squads. Kalamazoo, next Friday’s opponent, is defending Michigan small college champ.

On the tough schedule confronting his team, Fogleman commented, “This is all part of

IMAC Plans, As Action Bogs Down

The IMAC will continue action after the spring break as the basketball teams attempt to round out their schedules. At
the moment only one team has completed its 12-game season. According to Jack Sherrill, IMAC president, the annual swimming meet
will be held on the 23rd and 24th of this month. After the break the wrestling meet will be held
as soon as possible. Sherrill also plans to have the softball schedule ready for the opening of the season. Volleyball
and tennis will start later in the year.

According to the results that have been turned in to Sherrill, only six teams have played any games at all.
The top team is the ATO’s with a 9-1 record. The Phi Gamms are close behind at 9-2. Other teams
and their records are the Kappa Sigs at 4-1, the Independents at 5-4, the Betas holding with a 6-6, the
Pikas with a 3-8, and the Sig Eps at 1-8. Sherrill also expressed regret that some of the games were
not recorded with him, partially due to the postponement of several games and in some cases due to the fact
that the teams have not required anyone to report the games.

BASEBALL BOSS TOM STEVENS “The Season Outlook . . . A Big Question Mark”

Wildcats Crushed! In Raleigh Action

By SONNY GRAVES Davidsonian Sports Writer

Having won the Southern Conference Tournament for the first time in its history, the Davidson Wildcats journeyed to Raleigh seeking
new prey. Certainly the Orange of Syracuse would go along. But they did not. In fact, nothing went along. The
‘Cats went out as patsies; so did the cheerleaders, and the fans, especially the alumni who failed to cheer from
their good seats. All went out with only a flicker. For ten minutes Friday night all went as planned, but
then Syracuse spurted and the cause was lost. The margin of defeat continued to mount until Fred Lewis, the Orangeman
coach, filled the court with subs. Then the 'Cats blossomed at last but Lewis had taken action about 10 points
too late. The final score 92-76 was no indication of the game. Again Saturday night the Davidson boys started out
in a close game. But the same mysterious events of the night before reoccurred. St. Joseph's romped to a victory
in the consolation match. For two nights in a row Davidson had stayed close to their opponents until near the
end.End of the first half. As both Syracuse and St. Joseph's pulled away, the ‘Cats seemed to give up. Rodney
Knowles’ performance was the only redeeming factor for the team as his 53 points were high for the tournament.

It is as good a schedule as we could have—one or two big-name schools from about every section of the
country, and you can’t ask for more than that in the way of scheduling. And we also have six conference
matches this season.”

Despite the toughness of the schedule, Fogleman is quite optimistic. “We're in much better playing condition this year than we
were at this time last year. The building of the new hard courts has helped greatly and has permitted us
to have about three weeks extra practice.”

The new courts, according to Fogleman, are a big asset to the overall tennis program at Davidson. Before this year,
the weather had played an important part in the progress of the team, but now the team can play immediately
following bad weather and even throughout the winter months. Things are looking up for the varsity squad as everything seems
to be in excellent condition for the opening of the season. Prospects seem excellent for successfully defending the conference crown,
taken narrowly last year over George Washington.

Hot Golfers Get By K. D. Off To Fast Start
WEEKS Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s golfing six walked away with top honors in Monday’s four-way meet and barely missed a victory over Carolina in
their Tuesday match. For the second time in the four-year duration of the Myrtle Beach Dunes Club four-way meet, the
linksmen outshot The Citadel, George Washington, and Furman. A school record for low best-four scores was set at 304. Joe
Jelks led the charge with a hot 70 and took medalist honors from the tourney field. Behind him were John
Giles with 75, Champ Covington 79, and George Brewer 80. George Washington's Lou Rubino was second low with 74.

“Jelks will receive a trophy for being medalist and the team will receive one also,” said Coach Tom Scott. Teamed
against one player of each school, Giles and Jelks beat all three; Brewer was 1-2 and Covington, 2-1.

Against UNC, the golfers took even fewer shots to get around the course, and at the nine-hole turn, the ’Cats
were in the lead. But when the last foursome came in, the scores ended 10-8 with Carolina on top. “We
should have beaten them,” commented Covington, “and they were ACC Champions last year. We have a potentially great team ourselves.”

Jelks won from Jack Thompson 2½-½, Giles beat Brook Caree 2½-½, Covington lost to Brooks Carter 2-1, Doug McKeever lost
to last year’s ACC medalist John Baldwin 2-1, Brewer lost to Steve Robbins 3-0, and Walter Daniel lost to Dick
Van Luven.

The next match is Tuesday with N.C. State at the Raleigh Golf Association course.

PAGE FIVE

BILL COUNCIL Number One Fogleman?

Tracksters Open With LR And HP

Davidson entertains Lenoir Rhyne and High Point on the cinder track tomorrow afternoon at two o'clock. The meet will count
as two dual meets, run simultaneously. With a similar meet being staged next Wednesday at Wofford, involving Lenoir Rhyne and
the Cats, Coach Heath Whittle hopes to notch four victories prior to spring break.

Saturday’s participants competed last year, with Davidson sprinting to a comfortable win on its way to a 5-1 season. However,
Coach Whittle rates this squad as slightly weaker due to graduation losses. He feels that the chances for this year
“may be determined on Saturday. I’m hoping for something like a 6-2 record.”

Captain David Brown will lead the Cats’ cindermen this spring, entering the high hurdles, broad jump, triple jump, and pole
vault. In other field events, Bill Kendrick is a standout javelin thrower, and John Fagg and Randy Randolph toss the
shot and discus. In track events, the ’Cats are strongest with Brown hurdling, Andy Little running the mile and two-mile,
and Steve Gill in the 880-yard run. Whittle expects Gill to lower the school mark in this event soon.

Considering the team effort, Whittle feels that the sprints are the main shortcoming. Bob Myers, John Flowers, Charles Gorham, and
Buck Coyne are sophomores who will help the team over a difficult schedule which features meets with Wake Forest and
The Citadel, the Davidson Relays, and the Southern Conference meet.

LOSE TO PFEIFFER, 4-3 Unearned Runs Kill Batmen

Five errors cost the Wildcat basemen their season opener to Pfeiffer by 4-3, Wednesday. The Falcons scored three times on
errors and wild pitches. “Those errors just killed us," sighed Coach Tom Stevens. “Each one seemed to come at just
the wrong moment. Our hitting was off too, but those errors put the game out of reach.”

The ‘Cats grabbed a first-inning lead when David King connected for a double to drive in the first run. But
when the Falcons got their turn, it was all over. Pfeiffer sent two men to the pads on two hits.
A pair of errors and a wild pitch brought them home. An error, stolen base, and a wild pitch cost
Davidson another score in the third, with Falcon Bob Gulledge’s homer in the eighth putting the game on ice.

Tommy Clayton led the ‘Cat battery with two hits, with King, Paul Brown, and Chet driving in runs. “The season
outlook is a big question mark right now,” remarked Stevens. “We're going to have to rely heavily on our sophomores
to come through. Of course, we hope our All-Conference men, Howard Bryan and Jim Hyder, will have a good season.”

“Baseball is the kind of sport that lets a guy have a great season one year and just flop completely
the next. That makes predicting a season pretty much guesswork,” continued Coach Stevens. “Our pitching might make the difference this
season. We've got two sophomores and three juniors right now. Buddy Durham probably has the most experience, but we are
hoping for big things out of Henry Wilmer and Charlie Elliot, too.”

The ‘Cats play their first home game Saturday at 2 p.m. in a return bout with Pfeiffer. Then on Monday
and Tuesday, they will host U.Va. for two games.

Time To Weatherize Your Wardrobe

Come browse and see the new warm weather clothing and accessories.

Half-Sleeve Shirts
Dacron-Worsted Slacks
Dacron-Cotton Slacks
Bermudas
Swimwear

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and tobacco. Maison Michel has
the largest pipe selection of domestic and imported briars, as well as imported tobaccos. This ad, with your Davidson ID
card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel
217 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
375-9723

And all that is fitting for the Pace Setting Traditionalist.

Use Your Charge Account
Mooresville
