Georgetown Ends Ban On Campus Drinking

By Collegiate Press Service

A rule prohibiting drinking in dormitories has been unexpectedly reversed by Georgetown University. Officials said the new policy, which allows
all men to keep both beer and hard liquor in their rooms, was designed to help students develop personal responsibility.
According to Rev. Anthony J. Zeits, director of student personnel, authorities who have studied the campus drinking issue have concluded
that “the formation of young men is facilitated when they are given the freedom to choose whether to use or
not to use alcoholic beverages."

Georgetown officials also said the move was made to end the pretense of enforcing an unenforceable rule—a primary consideration, according
to several students. Studies of other colleges which allow liquor on campus have shown that “most students do not overindulge
when allowed to have alcoholic beverages in their dormitories,” Father Zeits emphasized.

The step taken by Georgetown is a surprising one, according to Gerry McCullough, news editor of the student paper. McCullough
said the drinking decision was handled quietly. The Student Council discussed the issue with administration officials last year. The newspaper
knew nothing of the proceedings until the matter was settled, McCullough said. For the past four years, McCullough added, student
leaders have been trying to liberalize Georgetown's policies. Dormitory curfew regulations have also been relaxed this semester, he said.

Department Staff Picks Play Cast

The Department of Speech and Drama has announced the cast for Oliver Goldsmith's She Stoops to Conquer, which will be
presented Nov. 10, 11, and 12 in Hodson Hall. Rick Lonon will play the lead, Charles Marlow, and Rawley Turner
will play Hastings, Marlowe's friend. Marvin Sparrow plays Tony Lumpkin, the step-brother, and Tim Gailey, the father. The female lead,
Kate Hardcastle, is played by Miss Patsy Whitley and is joined by Mrs. Joseph Crawley as Miss Constance Neville.

Robert Williams, instructor in art, is designing the scenery, while Mrs. Rupert Barber, wife of the director, is designing the
costumes. Other members of the cast include: Lyn Montague, John Ferguson, Bill Graham, Clay Ford, Bill Waldrop, Emerson Bell, Jim
Bowman, Jim Evans, Woody Gleason, Athley Kline, Neal Martin, Mrs. Hurd Bradford, and Miss Lizabeth Bradford.

By J. G. MARTIN

Secor D Inspired by a “Cornelius assistant minister, Class of '16," Dr. Philip B. Secor, assistant professor of political science,
spoke in chapel Monday on the role of the individual in modern-day politics. His talk was marred by student interruption
near the end of the speech. Beginning by defining politics as the way of obtaining and maintaining power over other
people, Secor developed the thesis that the common ground of most modern political systems is the self-centeredness of man. He
then classified several ages by the forces that performed “the art of politics.” The age of reason, he maintained, demanded
that a political system must gain and hold power.

Abel Works On Manual Exposing Drug Abuse

"It's just like writing a term paper,” senior Mike Abel said about his work this summer compiling a manual for
the state of Pennsylvania on the misuse of drugs. Abel, from Wrightsville, Pa., was employed this summer by the Department
of Justice of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to aid in the publication of “a manual for college and high school
administrators dealing with the problem of misuse and abuse of drugs by students at the college and high school levels."

A drug scare in the Philadelphia area two years ago, he continues, prompted the Departments of Justice, Education, and Health
to investigate drug abuse in the state. Pennsylvania Governor William W. Scranton took the initial step and got the program
organized. Questionnaires were sent to 141 college presidents asking for suggestions as to what the state could do. In addition,
questionnaires were sent to some 150 experts in the field, psychologists, and psychiatrists, asking advice.

GOP HOPEFUL

Chemistry Professor Enters County Race

“Let's get on with it.” With this slogan, Dr. James G. Martin, associate professor of chemistry, is campaigning for the
office of Mecklenburg County Commissioner. As a Republican, his name will be on the Nov. 8 ballot with a full
slate of five Republican candidates opposing the incumbent Democratic commissioners. “It looks very good,” Martin said of his chances, “and
the entire slate should do very well.”

The major issue which he will develop in the campaign, Martin said, is a clarification of the level of responsibility
the commissioners have toward the public schools. The commission, which has maintained the same level of taxes for four years,
has increased county welfare and administrative services and has responded arbitrarily to important school board requests, he asserted.

Martin has spent much of the summer researching the school system. He will soon publish “The Martin Report,” a study
of trends and levels of financial support, organization, and curriculum, with a comparison of the county schools with other southeastern
systems of comparable size. He pointed out that the education issue is closely tied to the issues of tax levels
and revenue sources. The county receives full benefit of local tax money applied to the schools, whereas only 58 cents
of each tax dollar sent to Raleigh from the county for schools returns here. The Mecklenburg school system, the nation’s
45th largest, has great potential for advancement, and this advancement can be most effectively begun and maintained, Martin stated.

Weekend’s Activities Featuring Bluegrass

Square dancing as well as a combo party will highlight this weekend’s entertainment. After a spaghetti supper in front of
the Union, two combo groups, Scottie and the Flames and The Bluegrass Ramblers, will play from 8 p.m. until 12.
Ben King, Union social chairman, said that “with these two bands, there ought to be entertainment for everyone.”

Last weekend a folk group, David Fore, Henry Whitfield, and Doug Pratt won the $25 first prize in the Social
Council's hootenanny. The group presented several selections during the intermission of the Ian and Sylvia concert. Fresh from a recent
appearance at The Cellar in Charlotte, The Flames will perform on a stage in front of Chambers. The lead singer
was with The Embers a few years ago, and “the group's reputation is well known,” King commented.

The Bluegrass Ramblers were at Davidson for a concert weekend party last fall. “More people were at this square dance
than at the combo party,” King added, and “these five men could play just about anything you asked for.” Bales
of hay will be set up in the north parking lot of the Union to give square-dancing enthusiasts room to
dos-a-dos. Peewee Davis, who leads the group, wrote King and said, “It sure makes me feel good to know that
the folks at the college liked the Ramblers that well. You can count on us to be back... we sure
enjoyed ourselves at the college last year.”

The Freshman Social Committee has planned the supper from 5:30 until 7:30 p.m. and for 80 cents “all the spaghetti
you can eat” will be sold.

STEP Begins Project For Tutoring Students

The Student Tutorial Education Project, a student tutorial organization recently initiated here, is currently engaged in setting up its program
for the coming year. The directors of STEP, an outgrowth of the YMCA tutorial program, are planning a much-expanded program
which will include not only tutoring but also community organization work with teenagers and other special activities, according to director
Marvin Sparrow.

Emphasizing the tutorial aspect, the project will consist mainly of local college students working with students in the Davidson and
Cornelius elementary schools. The group will stress “creative tutoring,” an approach which attempts to encourage initiative and independence among students,
Sparrow continued. STEP is involved in an extensive drive to find students interested in tutoring.on the best ways to solve
the problems. The manual, entitled "About Drugs and Drug Abuses: A Guide For High School and College Officials In Dealing
With the Use and Abuse of Drugs by Students," Abels says, "provides what the questionnaires said they needed - major
information on drugs which are most subject to abuse by students, what they are, their medical uses, and how they
are abused.” Judson E. Ruch, Special Deputy Attorney General, who was in charge of the programs writes, “We regard Mr.
Abel's manual as excellent, and leading psychiatrists and educators in Pennsylvania have expressed their enthusiastic approval. While there is a
great need, no other state has published anything similar to it. The organization and composition are exclusively Mr. Abel's.” Abel
worked in cooperation with Smith Kline and French Laboratories, a leading drug concern, compiled results of the two questionnaires and
explored extensive magazine and newspaper files on the subject. Abel says, “We hope this will just be a start of
an extensive educational program concerning drugs and drug abuses. We tried to get a start so it will be incorporated
in the curriculum of high schools to educate the student to the abuses before they are faced with the temptation.”

Featured in Chamber Concert

The first Chamber Concert of the 1966 season will be held Monday in Hodson Hall. Featured in the concert will
be a selection which will use a prepared piano. The “prepared” piano is one in which screws, bolts, toilet tissue,
paper clips, and other items have been woven into the strings to produce a sound relative to that of primitive
music. This technique was developed by John Cage, whose music will be used. The concert will be a two-part program.
“Quartet No. 1” by Giachino Rossini will be presented by John Taylor, Sam Johnson, Tony DeBruun, and Leonard Tyson. This
selection is in three movements written for the Flute, French Horn, Bassoon, and Clarinet. Also featured will be Ashton Trice
presenting his composition “Cantata,” which consists of music by Cage and Erik Satie and dialogue written by Trice. Two readers,
a prepared piano, a piano, and a metronome will be used in this selection.

SHONEY’S DRIVE-IN
Home Of The BIG BOY
Bring Your Date Here For Some of OUR FAMOUS STRAWBERRY PIE
10 Per Cent Discount to D. C. Students WITH STUDENT CARDS
FIVE LOCATIONS
800 E. Morehead
3400 Plaza
3701 E. Independence Blvd.
Franklin & New Hope Rd.—Gastonia, N. C.
1243 Cherry Rd.—Rock Hill, S. C.
To Serve You!

power in a just manner, that only the wise should be put in power. With the coming of the age
of faith, the emphasis switched completely. Power and justice became identified with moral and natural stability. Justice was the work
of each person in society; all men should do their own part. The will of the ruler was just; therefore
just power always emanated from established authority. Having established these fundamentals, Secor proceeded to characterize the modern political age. He
stated that contemporary political power does not come from established authorities but from man himself. Justice, Secor emphasized, has become
a physical and earthly stability, placing political power in the creative intellect of man. The goal then becomes not some
transcendental social good, but security and stability. Secor differentiated some modern political systems by showing how they created stability. Marxism,
for example, tries to create economic stability; the Marxist criticizes the individual of the West because he sees this security
only in its political sense. Secor pointed out that the current political crisis is the result of an over-emphasis on
the self of man, rather than the bipolarization of the world’s political power. As he began his conclusion, he was
interrupted by the clapping of several members of the student body. Secor then dismissed chapel before finishing his closing comments.

Sunday Night Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students from 8 to 10 p.m. this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Percy (at Crittenden Epes Home)
Johnston
Epes
Minter
Regen
Outlaw
White, L.
Patterson

Students Will Attend Ecumenical Institute

A group of Davidson students will visit Chicago's Ecumenical Institute during Thanksgiving recess. The trip to the Ecumenical Institute for
a weekend conference, sponsored by the Davidson Methodist Student Fellowship, is open to all interested persons. The institute was founded
in 1954 by the World Council of Churches. Basically, it is a center for research in new approaches to human
problems in today's scientific, secular, and urban society. A large part of the institute’s work is in training laymen to
be vanguards in modern society. This training takes place in intensive weekend conferences. The intensity of the pedagogical methods used
at the conferences has caused controversy, especially among traditional churchmen who are shocked by the ideas of the radically committed
staff members of the institute. There will be no charge for transportation, and costs will be held to a minimum.
Interested students should see Mike Bates.

Deferment Tests Slated Next Month

Applications for the Nov. 18 and 19 College Qualification Test for draft deferment are now available in the student counseling
office. A test bulletin, distributed by the testing organization, advises that a student register early for the test. In this
way, he stands the best chance of being assigned to the date he desires. Because of the possibility of being
assigned either date, the student must list a testing center for each date. The test will be administered at Davidson
on either or both test dates depending on the number of students who register.

BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
THE CELLAR
OPEN NIGHTLY

Behind Conder Soda Shop
TASTEE FREEZ
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Small and Large PIZZA
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
MOORESVILLE

FIRST SEMESTER 1966-67 EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

Wednesday A.M. Third hour classes Monday, Wed., Fri. Jan. 18 P.M.
Thursday A.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wed., Fri. Jan. 19 P.M.
Fourth hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat.
Friday A.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wed., Fri. Jan. 20 P.M.
Saturday A.M. Fourth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 21 P.M.
Monday A.M. First hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 23 P.M.
First hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat.
Tuesday A.M. Fifth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 24 P.M.
Wednesday A.M. Second hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat. Jan. 25 P.M.
Thursday A.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41 Jan. 26 P.M.
Third hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat.

Ecuadorians To Speak At PRAM Assembly

Chapels featuring the Project of the Americas, Economics Professor Charles E. Ratliff's experiences in West Pakistan and the “courage of
a college student” are slated for next week. On Monday, Fred A. Ehlers, a ‘64 Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, will
narrate PRAM's program. Two members of PRAM, one a South American student and the other a Davidson student who went
to Ecuador this summer, will compare life in the United States with that in Latin America. Tuesday, Assistant Professor of
English Anthony S. Abbott will present a revised version of a program presented at Freshman Camp at the request of
the college chaplain. This program attempts to demonstrate some of the traits of courage that a good student needs. Ratliff
will compare some personal observations of education in the United States and Pakistan Thursday including teaching methods, motivation of the
student, and the honor system. During the past three years Ratliff helped establish a M.A. program at Forman College in
Lahore, Pakistan.
