TOM COOK SPORTS EDITOR The Point

CRUSADE TO CHARLOTTE

So we lost to a team we should have beaten Saturday. Of course, it hurts to lose anytime, but what
hurt just as much was sitting on those splinters called seats at Hoey Charlotte American Legion Memorial Stadium. (Whew!)

And just because you felt down in the dumps after the "Football for Fun Bunch" or the "Filthy Forty," depending
on which side of Coach Bob King's mouth you are standing, put their "pro-style" sophomores in action, you could look
across the field at the 10,500 plus empty seats and muse, "In a hundred years what difference will it make?"

Perhaps the powers-that-be had reasons to anticipate a respectable turnout in Charlotte, but once again Charlotte showed that the Davidson
football team is not the "Darlings of Dixie" as super-SID John Kilgo has labeled Driesell's dribblers. The game drew 8,300
persons, or just 300 more than the capacity of Richardson Field, the home of splinterless seats. Because of the low
rent of the Charlotte stadium, Athletic Director Tom Scott says we made some money, but we didn’t have to call
Wells Fargo to tote it to the bank.

The absence of spectators on the other side reduced the effectiveness of the lighting system, giving the effect of a
concrete wall with screaming Baptists painted on the side. Actually, the only good thing about playing in Charlotte last weekend
were those Furman majorettes, who beat anything of that type Davidson could put on the field. Football players reported that
the field itself was not the showplace of Charlotte due to the treadings of four high school teams the night
before.

Scott says Homer Smith wanted to play in Charlotte in an attempt to attract a wider following. Doubtless there were
people there Saturday who would have not trudged down I-77 to the Den of the Wildcats to view the game
under typical college football conditions. The poor attendance could not be blamed on poor weather or television competition like the
ill-fated Carousel Bowl on Thanksgiving Day last year. Scott laid some of the blame on the large amount of interest
in the Carolina-State game. But nevertheless, the main reason only 8,300 persons showed up Saturday was because of the steady
diet of top high school football two nights a week plus the belief that Davidson football is about as exciting
as the Johnson C. Smith Golden Bulls.

Davidson will have to prove itself and prove itself again before Charlotte fans will ever realize that college football does
not have to be on the boob tube or played hundreds of miles away to be good entertainment. They finally
figured it out with basketball and they may eventually decide that going to Davidson football games is more than a
pleasant trip to the country when the television breaks down.

Charlotte basketball fans stayed away from the Coliseum after we lost our first game last year, but they finally returned
just in time to see us knock off West Virginia. If Davidson drew only 300 more than the capacity of
Johnston Gym at the Coliseum, the gym would get a lot more use than it does now. Why not the
same for football? Charlotte people will come only when they are sure of having something to talk about at church
the next morning to match the guy who watched "Gunsmoke."

Let’s stay at home for our home games and be content to leave sunny Saturday afternoons to watch our classmates
mutilate the nice young men of other institutions. We may not have a parking problem out here like the big
leagues, but at least we won’t be forgotten like we were in Charlotte. And we won't have to visit the
hospital to get the splinters removed from our bottoms.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

GLIDEWELL HAULS IN TD TOSS But Not Enough To Win

Gambles Backfire On ’Cats As Furman Pulls Out Win

Two late extra point gambles, engineered by Head Coach Homer Smith, were unsuccessful as the Purple Paladins of Furman set
back the Wildcats 28-26, in the Southern Conference game played Saturday in Charlotte.

Smith had this to say about his extra point decisions: "We were playing to win. In the Southern Conference, where
one team is likely to be unbeaten, a tie is no good. We took a couple gambles and lost."

The first decision came following Kit Thompson's touchdown in the fourth quarter. With the score 21-20 in favor of Furman,
Smith elected to try for the two-point conversion. The attempt was no good and the 'Cats still trailed.

With only 1:42 minutes remaining in the game, Johnny Walker carried in another Davidson score. Again Smith decided to try
for two. Once more Poole's pass was unsuccessful and the Dirty Thirty had to be content with a momentary 26-21
lead.

The lead was short-lived as a desperation passing attack was set in motion by the Purple Paladins. Davidson had not
had time to feel comfortable with its lead before Furman pushed across the deciding score. It took the Paladins only
four sideline passes to move the ball 80 yards for the touchdown.

IMAC Expands Frosh Program

"The freshman intramural athletic program," said IMAC President Jack Sherrill, "has been expanded to include all nine sports played by
the fraternities."

Freshmen have been organized into five teams on a dormitory basis. In flickerball, each team will play every other team
twice. "We hope that the fraternity champion will be able to play the freshman champion in each sport," said Sherrill.

After the first week of flickerball action, East 1 emerged as the team to beat. East I rode the passing
talents of Charles Brockwell for

Wildkittens Kick Off Slate As Duke Invades Friday

Davidson's Wildkittens launch their most ambitious season Friday against the Imps of Duke University at Richardson Field. Kickoff time is
2:30 p.m.

Coaches Bobby Brown and Dick Short feel they have the material to match the schedule with the largest freshman squad
in the last three years. Brown said, "We are out to break the tradition of freshman teams just winning one
game. This bunch won't settle for that."

Brown has such potential standouts as end-linebacker Mike Kelly, "Athlete of the Year" in Mecklenburg County last year while at
North High; Neal Dettmering, three-sport standout for Fayetteville, Ga. last year; and Terry Esterkamp, a member of the All-Cincinnati, Ohio,
defensive team.

Brown said no definite line-ups have been determined for the Duke game because "we have been practicing everybody at everything."
He said, "It will be tough but we will have to settle on our starters this weekend so we can
polish everything up next week."

With about the same number of squad members as the varsity, Brown said the aim of the freshman team is
to let everyone play as a learning process. "We are playing to win, but we want to play so that
in a year everyone can help the varsity program with the things they learned here."

Currently, three frosh are engaged in a fierce battle for the quarterback spot on the team, Brown said. They are
Gordon Slade, Garth Hampton, and Terry Miller. Of the other high school signal callers on the team, Dettmering will man
a tight end or play defense, Ken Crews is working as a defensive halfback and Dave Fisher is dividing time
at wingback and safety.

In John Zaharov of Richmond, Va., Brown has a heavy-duty fullback and linebacker, but injuries have plagued his progress. Brown
is deep in running backs with speedster Ken Hill, Glenn Praay, Carl Salter, Joe Kilpatrick, and Cooper Brantley, who, Brown
said, looked very good in a scrimmage last week.

Working at defensive back is Whit Morrow, smallest man on the team at 150 pounds and perhaps the fastest, Brown
added. At spread end, the frosh will count on Lynn Himes, 6-3, 185, and George Hannen, 6-1, 185 pounder from
Durham.

Center will be manned by Mike Culbreth, who played in the Shrine Bowl in Charlotte last year, and Bill Gammon
from Reidsville. Guards who have stood out in practice so far, Brown said, are David Branch and Allen Hawkins. With
only four tackles on the squad, Brown has moved Esterkamp, who had been out with a separated shoulder, to that
position.Many years next sition as well as another former end, Garrell Nicholson. Among the other tackles, Dave Thompson has recovered
from an early injury and is ready, and Joe Carr of Wilson played in the Shrine Bowl last year. On
Duke, Brown said he knew little about them, but that Trainer Tom Couch received a letter asking for 44 beds
for the team from the Duke trainer, and that one Duke varsity player told a television announcer that Duke had
one of their best freshman teams in years. “We will probably be the underdog, but I think it will be
a great game,” Brown said.

Catlett Becomes Wildcat Aide

W. Gale Catlett, former assistant cage coach at the University of Richmond, has been named assistant head coach here, Head
Coach Lefty Driesell announced this week. Catlett, who replaces Warren Mitchell who resigned to become head coach at William and
Mary, will assume coaching duties and help with recruiting, Driesell said, and “anything else to help Davidson win the national
championship some day.”

A 45-0 romp over Cannon II Tuesday. Early in the first half, Brockwell rolled out around right end and sprinted
18 yards into the Cannon end zone. East added two more touchdowns before the half on passes to Bill Cockrill
and Edgar Exum. In the second half, Brockwell and flanker John Tolle continued the attack with scoring aerials to Exum,
Frank Gray, and Dale Durham. A strong defense held Cannon to two first downs.

Cannon I survived a strong second half showing by Watts and won 26-20. Cannon displayed a strong running and passing
attack, led by quarterback Romey Fisher and Ed Bartle, who caught three touchdown passes. Watts trailed 20-6 at the half
but roared back and almost pulled the game out in the last half. Bill Traxler caught two scoring aerials for
Watts.

Poole had a good first half, hitting on eight of 10 passes, two of them for touchdowns to Bill Taylor
and Pete Glidewell. In the final quarter, it was a pass to Kit Thompson and a run by Johnny Walker
for the ‘Cats' scores. The final, and what appeared to be the winning touchdown, was set up by a crucial
fumble recovery by Lew Homer. The Gurkha defensive unit did not withstand the pounding of Furman’s ground thrusts or the
passes thrown by their sophomore quarterback Clyde Hewell. Smith said that the squad will go over the mistakes of the
game thoroughly in practice before their next game with East Carolina. Some changes and much work are in store for
the defensive team during the preparation for the Pirate game next Saturday at Greenville.

Foglemen Boast Spirit, Point Toward Big Season

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

Coach Harry Fogleman this week predicted a “real good season” for his varsity soccer team, which he rated “as good
as we have ever had.” “We don’t have any real outstanding stars this year,” he said. “But we do have
about 18 or 20 very fine ball players who have more spirit than I have ever seen on a Davidson
soccer team.” Fogleman was especially pleased with his sophomore players, who he said have been challenging the nine returning lettermen
for the starting positions. “These sophomores have been really pushing the lettermen and stirring up a lot of competition on
the team, which I think is very good. Some of these newcomers will be playing a lot of soccer this
season.”

The Foglemen kick off their season tomorrow against Furman on the Paladins’ home field. Furman launched its season last Saturday
with a 5-1 loss to Pfeiffer, a team Fogleman described as “one of the best in the state.” “Pfeiffer has
a tough team with a good defense. Furman must be good or they wouldn’t have scored against them.”

The fullback post is the weak link this year, Fogleman said. “We lost both fullbacks last year, and that hurt
us badly. Saturday we will probably start Willie Edmonds and Joe Norton back there. I expect them to do a
good job, but I just don’t have any depth at that position.” Fogleman said he plans to shift center halfback
and team captain George Brown to a defensive role, dropping him deeper into the backfield to help offset any possible
weakness at fullback. Also at halfback will be senior letterman Mac Fiddner. Fogleman said he is still undecided between Harvey
Newman, Geordie Lang, and Ben Martin for the remaining halfback slot.

In the forward line, Jim Marrow will start at center, said Fogleman, with John Flowers and Bobby Lanier at the
insides. The wings are “still up in the air,” Fogleman said, with Peach Coleman, Charlie Cameron, Roger Duttweiler, and Greg
Simmons jockeying for the starting spots. Anchoring the goalie box will be John Barnhardt, with Kem Anderson and Harry Hamil
in reserve. Barnhardt and Anderson have both lettered.

Fogleman said he plans to substitute heavily this season, using about 20 players each game. “We may even rotate the
starting line-up with each game. We have so much talent in some positions that we can start players in some
games who did not start in others.” Most of the 28 team members have developed good ball control, Fogleman said,
but proper heading techniques must be developed. “Our biggest weakness as a team is heading,” Fogleman said. “Other than that,
I’ve been very pleased with the team’s ball control.”

Fogleman predicted that Pfeiffer and North Carolina State would provide the booters with their toughest competition. The Foglemen add Erskine
and North Carolina Wesleyan to their schedule this year, which terminates with the conference tournament here Nov. 17-19.

Harriers Launch Season At Wake

Davidson's varsity and freshman cross-country teams will open their season against Wake Forest Wednesday at Winston-Salem. Wake Forest, who placed
third in the state meet last year, should provide tough competition, Cross Country Coach Heath Whittle said. They are led
by John Hodson, who placed second in last year's state meet, Jim Hope, and Grange Ancarrow. The Deacons also have
several boys coming off of the strong freshman team of last year, Whittle said.

The varsity cross country will open its home season against The Citadel Friday afternoon on the lower soccer field. Whittle
reported that Davidson's varsity team is “coming along nicely.” Barry St. Clair, the only senior on the team, has been
elected captain and will lead the thinclads for the year. Whittle also commented, “The freshman team is looking unusually good
this year. They are led by John and Jim Puckett, Alan Pusey, and Dan Herd. Other promising freshmen are David
Wasserman, Stage Newman, and Dick Young. This team could be a potential state champion.”
