Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1966

To A Gradeless Society

Last spring Chuck Matthews, then a candidate for student body president, basing his platform largely on academic issues, called for the institution of a pass-fail system, allowing every student to take one course in which he would receive credit but no grade. Such a program, considered by many to be radical, has its fault not in its extremity but in its timidity. If the idea is valid, then why should it not be extended to all courses, rather than only one? At a number of progressive schools, the idea of grades is being thrown out the window, in the interest of a purer form of education.

Much of the impetus for such changes is born in the Viet Nam war and the demands it has created on the Selective Service System for cannon fodder. The arbitrary means of determining a student's draft status by his rating in class has many students running scared, and consequently a draft-shy student is wary of any course that, while intellectually stimulating, is punitive gradewise.

But while the draft situation is responsible for bringing the issue of grades to a head, it is not (or should not be) the reason for the ultimate decision to completely do away with grades and the rank-in-class system. The entire grading framework is repulsive to the idea of education. The president of Haverford College, which recently decided to do away with rank-in-class lists, has said that a student’s choice of courses, within requirements for his degree, should be based “only on the potential intellectual value and interest of the course.” Other Haverford officials have voiced the fear that potentially good students are being encouraged, by the class rankings, to attend less competitive institutions.

This summer, at a conference of the U. S. Student Press Association Congress, Paul Lauter, of the American Friends Service Committee, mentioned grades. “No way around it, we need them,” the students around him responded. And Lauter’s constant reply was “Why?” We need some basis for measuring achievement. “Why?” So the school, the student and others can see how well the student is learning. “Why?” We need them to do many things, they replied. Such things as getting into grad schools and feeding corporations’ IBM. We ‘need’ them, Lauter concluded, for extrinsic, rather than intrinsic reasons. And every school retains grading because that criteria survives in other social institutions. Paul Goodman has suggested that institutions should administer their own tests. “Why,” he asks, “should Harvard professors do the testing for corporations and graduate schools?”

The grading system is a disruptive force in the educational process. By eliminating the structure, the Curriculum Committee has an opportunity to give students a chance to prove themselves and to gain a greater degree of maturity and individual responsibility.

It's That Time Again

It has come time for THE DAVIDSONIAN’s traditional rail against banal student body behavior during chapel. Monday’s chapel prompts this year’s editorial. But things are different this year. The traditional editorial previously has, while castigating the student body for its rudeness, admitted the inferior quality of speakers. While nobody, but nobody, deserves the full treatment from the student body, those that get it usually come as close to deserving it as anybody could. Professor Berman deserved no such welcome as that customarily reserved for aspiring politicians from eastern North Carolina. An articulate scholar, his main sins seem to be that he offended some of the less critical student minds and that he spoke two minutes past the prescribed 30-minute limit.

A constant student gripe is the lack of quality chapel speakers. Yet when a reputable speaker dares venture into Love Auditorium and then receives a reception such as Professor Berman received Monday, he'll never come back. What’s more, he’ll tell others and they won’t come the first time. If the North Carolina Republicans can’t make it at Davidson, and if the radical left can’t make it at Davidson, then who can?

Documents In Trouble

A potentially valuable source of reference matter is presently sitting dormant in Grey Library, virtually unused, and all because of a lack of organization and cataloguing. The library, an official depository of government documents, has devoted virtually the entire basement area to storing these documents. Yet, little has been done in past years to arrange them in any sort of logical order. The numbers assigned by the government cataloguers are missing from Davidson’s documents. Instead, they have been simply stacked on the basement shelves. If one is fortunate, he can eventually locate a document by browsing through the shelves. But even browsing isn't always the answer, for not all the volumes are located in the basement — somehow, some have found their way into the stacks.

There are presently two students working at cataloguing the government documents, but they are fighting just to keep their heads above water, for it’s a problem to even keep up with the new acquisitions. One of the students estimates it will take two to three years to complete the cataloguing task, at the present rate. Provisions need to be made to boost the personnel in the government documents section and to eventually hire a full-time cataloguer and procurement official.

The Booming Press

Who says newspapers are in trouble? So what if the New York Herald Tribune and the Atlanta Times have folded? So what if the New York World American can scarcely get together with its union workers to start publication? While social critics bemoan the loss of competition and lack of diversity in editorial opinion, the town of Davidson is experiencing a mushrooming growth in journalistic ventures. What began as a spark in the mind of an aspiring sixth-grade journalist at Davidson Elementary School has boomed into a two-way duel for school readership.

It all began when John Winkler, in Mrs. Gibson’s class, began working independently to produce a class newspaper. Mrs. Gibson, in the enlightened tradition of a free scholastic press, encouraged her students to work on the paper but took no actual part in its production. And so, two weeks ago, the first edition of The Davidson Times was born.

The paper featured stories on a class debate, a club merger, a class trip and a preview of upcoming class elections. All very low-key, all uncontroversial. But the fat was in the fire. Members of Miss Thompson’s class, the other sixth-grade class, put out their journal, known as Nosdivad, featuring a story about a playground fight and another about Miss Thompson falling down on the playground. “Not many teachers just go out and fall down,” Editor Graham Smith explained later.

This was too much for the Times group, so Vol. I, No. 2 appeared Wednesday, complete with a biting editorial attacking Nosdivad’s techniques. Editor Winkler, calling attention to the spaces between the Nosdivad’s lines, is obviously a member of the New York Times “cram it all in” school of journalism, while the Nosdivad staff subscribes to the modern white-space school of thought. The Times even indulged in a little Communist hunting — “The name Nosdivad sounds Russian,” the editorial said. Mrs. Gibson, despite her liberal views on freedom of the press, was somewhat miffed at not having “guided” the students — it went to press without her ever having seen the sheet.

Despite the strong words, all is at peace. “No matter how much we oppose them, competition is in good American taste,” The Times’ editorial concluded. And Nosdivad? They’re going to keep publishing, but just ignore their competition. “We don’t feel we have to write anything in reply,” Editor Smith commented.

Kazantzakis’ New Book ‘Fools’ Reinterprets Jesus’ Life

A Review By SAM DARBY Staff Writer

“Jesus seized her, threw back her head and kissed her on the mouth. They both turned deathly pale. Their knees gave way. Unable to go further, they lay down under a flowering lemon tree and began to roll on the ground.”

It is unfortunate that the few people who know Nikos Kazantzakis think of him as the author of Zorba the Greek. He is a remarkably sensitive intellectual whose genius lies in his ability to relate conceptions and ideas to his own values. The translator, P. A. Bien, says that The Last Temptation of Christ is “the summation of thought and experience of a man whose entire life was spent in the battle between spirit and flesh.”

REPRESENTATION

The book is a representation of the New Testament in a logical framework. Jesus is a hypersensitive young man, who, in the midst of a very potent national heritage, is plagued by what he thinks is the voice of God. Mary, his mother, is an unhappy woman whose husband was struck by lightning just after they were married. Joseph is a paralytic vegetable. Mary Magdalene is driven to prostitution by love for the cowardly Jesus, and Judas Iscariot is a sincere Zealot who in the end brings the Romans at Jesus’ command. The facts of the story are not changed — they are simply re-interpreted by Kazantzakis.

The culmination is reached when Jesus is on the cross. He faints and dreams of marriage and the good life that he never had the courage to pursue: work and love, a wife and children. He dreams that into this worldly paradise comes the apostle Paul preaching the gospel of the Resurrection. Jesus says to Paul that the whole story is a lie because he himself is this Jesus of Nazareth and neither dead nor resurrected. Paul on the other hand says it does not matter: He is preaching the essence of truth and the secular facts make no difference to him. In the end he leaves and Jesus awakes to find himself about to die on Golgotha.

NOT A COWARD

“A wild indomitable joy took possession of him. No, no, he was not a coward... No, he was nailed to the cross. He had stood his ground honorably to the very end; he had kept his word. The moment he cried ELI ELI and fainted, Temptation had captured him for a split second and led him astray. The joys, the marriages and children were all lies... All were illusions sent by the Devil. His disciples were alive and thriving. They had gone over the sea and land and were proclaiming the Good News. Everything had turned out as it should, glory be to God!

“He uttered a triumphant cry: It is accomplished. Everything has begun.”

One might say that Kazantzakis has re-written the New Testament to suit his own needs. It would be a mistake, though, to think of The Last Temptation of Christ as an explanation of those non-logical portions of the New Testament or as an evangelical appeal, or a plea or anything else but one man’s affirmation of faith.

Davidson's ‘Little World’ Compared With Marburg

DearEditor: I'd appreciate the printing of a couple of my snide, little Marburgy-type comments that I once thought flowed from another portion of the anatomy than the heads of Junior Year Abroad students. The problem is that these comments gushing from Dr. Abbott's sandal-wearing, hairy intellectual radicals are essentially valid from the point of view of a European student. The atmosphere here among a large majority of students is unbelievably different from that of the vast majority of Davidson students. They work here under a system of virtual freedom. They study and think in line with their freedom. Their concern for themselves, their goals, and their world is bred from their freedom, and it is genuine, serious concern. They can't mock Davidson's little world because they can’t understand it. As products of that little world, we in Marburg can only mock because we know as Davidson students (who have read the paper cover to cover for the first time this year) that serious criticism isn’t read. We also stand in a position between the Davidson student and the free university student. From the latter's position (which we are definitely trying to reach), there is very little on the Davidson student scene serious enough to warrant anything but derision. Our opportunity to be really constructive is when we resume membership in the "little world" our senior year. The problem is that we probably won't want to (resume membership) after tasting the fruit of real academic freedom and responsibility, and thus will we be as hairy, thonged, caustic, and otherworldly as the last two groups. Sort of a new twist to "the love" in which the freed man says to hell with the shadow watchers. Then, of course, we might grow up some too. But while I'm in metamorphosis, I'd like to get my licks in. So far this year, Davidson has produced a great deal more poignant and far-reaching controversies and progressive movements than in years gone by. I'm forced to admit that Davidson students’ new awareness surpasses anything here in Marburg. At the present time, we German students have nothing more important to discuss than the probable disruption of West Germany's coalition government and a possible radical readjustment of German policy towards De Gaulle and away from the United States. Let’s face it, picking the U.S.’s pocket and De Gaulle's nose just doesn't come close to a real nitty-gritty battle over the song ‘Dixie.’ There are also here in Germany no new progressive groups like the CSA. Instead of combining the forces of different groups of people with different ideas to work together for different goals, the activist groups here are still diversified. They're too busy and too anti-forward moving to see the value of coming together, sitting around a table, and talking... and talking... and talking. With such unprecedented strides somewhere, I must praise the Davidson Student Body for keeping the format of THE DAVIDSONIAN in line with that of Mad Magazine. I anxiously await further issues.

HOLMES ELEAZER
Marburg, Germany

Theft Endangers Honor System

Dear Editor: Last year I was a bright-eyed freshman, who believed all I heard about the honor among Davidson students and the high reputation they had in this part of the state. It seemed that my beliefs, though unrealistic and foolish, were justified. My room was unlocked all year; my billfold and watch were always sitting on my desk. On more than one occasion I found I.O.U.'s on the desk next to the billfold, but in the entire year, neither money nor anything else in the room was taken. It made me proud to think that a group of students could live together honestly and honorably. This year, however, my ridiculous bubble was broken. I was shaken and alarmed by Alva Whitehead's report of increased stealing. Was this Davidson? I didn’t want to believe it. Then last Friday, my billfold and watch were left alone for one class period — one of the few times this year. When I returned, there was no watch and an empty billfold. Believe it or not, I was so out of touch with reality that the loss of the money and the watch did not injure me so much as the realization that I could no longer trust some of my classmates. It doesn’t seem fair that I should have to mistrust many of them because of the misdeeds of a few — one unknown in particular. Somebody doesn’t belong here; because of him, an entire honor system is in jeopardy.

MICHAEL LAPLANTE
Davidson College

Subsidized Athletics Inspire Local Poet

Dear Sirs: Come gather round students wherever ye be, While I tell you the tale of proud ol’ D.C. A school that with great envy grew green As it watched other schools during football years lean, And decided at last in a decision pathetic To drop education and subsidize athletics. They scored 69 points their very last game, But it's really a shame, their IQ's the same.

DAN MOMBREA
Davidson College

By EDWARD DWELLE
Associate Editor

Name And Fools’ Faces

The Care And Grooming Of Women

FOR MANY GENERATIONS there has been a crying need for a handbook, written in plain English, telling men how to handle and domesticate and get along with their little two-legged friends, women. This writer is no bookish theorist, so in what follows, he will deal with methods that have got excellent results, not only in breaking and training women, but in their care, grooming, feeding, shipping and showing. Fortunately, there are many types of women to choose from. A few of the more important, mentioned in order, are: Show types, working, sporting, toy, great dames, lap setters, mixed breeds, and broads.

I. SHOW TYPES: Man’s selective crossing has so developed the beautiful hybrid that the utilitarian qualities have been almost wholly sacrificed for a handsome and elegant appearance. The points of the international grand champion may be accepted as standard. To wit:
1. HEAD: Perfectly level, whether it is 3 p.m. or 3 a.m.
2. COAT: Plenty of fur, mink, sable, ermine. The more she can get the higher she rates.
3. EYES: Heavily beaded and on the lookout.
4. TEETH: She brushes them twice daily, and sees her dentist, or somebody, every night.
5. GAIT: No rickets, but plenty of rackets.
6. NECK: A less ready necker than many other types, but the neck should be present.
7. LEGS: And how!
8. DISPOSITION: Ornery.

II. SPORTING TYPE: Outdoor and indoor. A fancy, fast-stepping creature, deservedly popular with sportsmen. Not docile, but gifted with a clean sense of fun. The established characteristics are:
1. HEIGHT: There is a wide latitude. Only see that she is racy and reachy and well up in the pastern.
2. ANATOMY: Flat-sided rather than sprung. Fiddle fronts are to be discarded.
3. FLEWS: Permissible, but the more discriminating do not go in for flewsies.
4. COLORATION: All color eligible, from a warm suntan to the heaviest of midnight rouge.
5. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS: Strong, well-formed hands for gripping the mashie or tennis racket, and a good firm bend to the drinking arm.

III. TOYS: There are two distinct phases of this variety — the true toys and the would-be’s. The purebreds are small and frisky and silky to the touch. The would-be’s run more to avoirdupois, and are still trying to play around on a broken archness. All of them have a great willingness to be made much of and may be picked up with impunity. Unfitted for work, but fine for a workout. The better ones have a good, firm step.
1. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS: Compact, neither stilty nor cloddy, lively, merry, amusing.
2. FAULTS: Too easily stolen. The lap setters, strictly speaking, belong in this class. These little creatures are extremely gentle and affectionate. Their distinguishing points are:
1. BODY: Supple and prehensile for climbing and clinging, with a pronounced tuck-up.
2. TRAITS: Sociable. They adapt themselves to almost anybody.
3. POSTURE AND ACTION: Scandalous.
4. FEET: This type, like a ladder, is safer when it has both feet on the ground.

IV. WORKING TYPE (rough and smooth): If you love your home and old house slippers, try this one. A hardy, rugged in-and-outer with lots of stamina and bottom. Probably the root stock from whence all the other varieties sprang. Nice and friendly to have around. Soon learns to know your whistle and footstep and voice over the telephone. In the good old days she used to hoe the corn and make the Johnny cake. Some of them still knit and darn. She is strictly one-guy gal. Her main drawback is she sometimes gets confused as to which is the guy. A collateral species of the above genus is the noctambulists or nightworkers. These are the broads. They are adventuresome and hate being tied up at home, and are found in numbers upon our broad highways.

V. FEEDING: Don’t let her forage for her own meals. It is a mistaken kindness to overfeed her. Also, you may want to count her ribs. If she seems dull and lacks ambition, try putting a little gin in her drinking water. Don’t let her take meals from outsiders, intruders, and suspicious characters in general. Don’t allow her to eat a lot of sugar and starches and fats, and then sprawl out for a snooze. There is no pose less becoming than adipose.

VI. EXERCISE: Take her for a romp every evening. If you don’t, someone else will.

VII. GROOMING: Give her some clothes. She’ll look dressier if she has some clothes. Or, if she won't accept things to wear from a gentleman, give her a book or some flowers. They often look very cute with only a book and some flowers. There is nothing that makes a pet more nervous or fidgety or downright miserable than cockleburs. Pluck them out and teach her to keep out of the bushes.

VIII. BREAKING AND TRAINING: When you agreed to take her on, she probably promised plenty. But what do promises amount to? Your smart handler simply smiles and starts in working on her. But don’t be rough or mean about it. It is so futile to hit a tender woman with a club. The majority of them respond very readily to a pat or two and a few coaxing whispers. Or, if you’re stuck with one of those stubborn and unfeeling babies, you have two courses of procedure:
1. Whang her with a folded newspaper or the flat of your hand.
2. Grow a beard and shove off for a kindlier climate.

In planning the lessons, make them quick and entertaining. You wouldn’t want to bore her, would you? When she pleases you, go ahead and pat her. Or toss her a fish. As soon as you have her housebroken, it will be reasonably safe to take her out. As long as you keep her at heel. But don’t forget our great cities are full of heels. Do not permit her to jump up on strangers. One way to break her of this untidy habit is to jerk the strangers out from under her.