LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Kendrick Postulates ‘Absurdities’

Dear Editor:

This morning, as is my habitude, I retired to my room with a flagon of vintage port and the daily
newspaper to greet the day. Although I was somewhat chagrined to discover that I had picked up THE DAVIDSONIAN instead
of Le Monde, I decided to make the best of it and hearken unto the news and editorial voice of
the Davidson College student body. Lifting my eyes from Mr. Magnus’ amusing cartoon, I skimmed Mr. Kendrick’s letter. Thinking (an
occupational hazard of the Junior Year Abroad program) about Mr. Kendrick’s theses (and I use this word loosely), I realized
what “manner of man” wrote this tirade. This can best be shown by careful consideration of the converses and implications
of its main points.

(1) A gnome studies 11 hours, sleeps seven, and attends classes the rest of the day. Passing over the stylistic
exaggerations this assertion contains, one gains the impression that study, especially intensive study, is suspect. After all, what did the
gnome come to Davidson for if he wanted to study?

(2) The gnome asks sycophantic questions after each class, and the professor is taken in. Following this, one would think
that the non-gnome never questions because:
(a) He knows the answers.
(b) He is afraid of appearing a “suck”.
(c) He hasn't followed the lecture well enough to ask a reasonably intelligent question.

Mr. Kendrick repeats the threadbare assertion that a professor, regardless of his personal study experience, his association with other students,
and his native intelligence, is easily fooled by even those as repulsive as gnomes. I detect less observation in this
than sour grapes.

(3) The gnome retires at 11:00 p.m., and unreasonably insists that noise of volume sufficient to penetrate his room's walls
be checked. This infuriating trait infringes on the non-gnome's right to play Mary Wells as loudly as possible, sing along,
and pound on his friends’ doors. One immediately deduces that the dormitory administration, the student regulations, and the security forces
are willing tools of the international gnomunist conspiracy.

(4) The gnome rarely dates because he can't find anybody as pitiful as he is, or because he can't communicate
in less than intellectual terms. Resisting the temptation to infer that the non-gnome has no trouble in finding someone as
pitiful as himself, one sees that the gnome inexcusably flaunts his reading and education by using words that express his
thoughts more clearly and exactly.

(5) The gnome has no liking for and does not participate in athletics. Aside from the petty-mindedness of scoring someone
for not liking the things he likes, I wonder if Mr. Kendrick feels that physical strength is necessary in our
society now, or in the future, at least in the occupations most Davidson students (besides the pre-pro ball majors) are
preparing for? It would also be interesting to hear the over-crowding complaints from the mens sana in corpore sano group
if all gnomes used the athletic facilities.

(6) When a term paper is assigned, the gnome takes out all relevant books before the rest of the class
has a chance to use them. First, I feel that it is a rare occurrence for a professor to assign
the same topic to an entire class. Second, what is the athletically inclined, physically fit non-gnome doing while the “degen...

Ungentlemanly Criticism Uncovers Jealousy

Dear Editor:

At last we know what is meant by the well-known categorization of this college's students as “Davidson gentlemen.” And at
last we have found a clear-cut example of this “cool” Davidsonian. Witness the letter to the editor of this paper
from Mr. Bilt Kendrick. Now that we are aware of the above we can get to the task of “stamping
out” all who do not fit this category.

Of course I am being sarcastic; therefore I shall quote freely from page 349 of G. W. Allport’s The Nature
of Prejudice. “The easiest idea to sell anyone is that he is better than someone else. Snobbery is a way
of clutching at one’s status... “By turning their attention to unfavored out-groups, (snobs) are able to derive from the comparison
a modicum of self-esteem.”

Maybe Mr. Kendrick’s problem is that he is afraid that the objects of his derision are getting more out of
their college education than he is. Maybe Mr. Kendrick is forgetting that we are all human and we all have
the right to live the way we want without being subjected to the kind of ungentlemanly criticism which he has
levied upon us.

JORDIE LANG
Davidson College

Social Council Requests Better Audience Conduct

Dear Editor:

Since Homecoming we have heard many comments, both good and bad, concerning the Righteous Brothers' Concert. The Social Council feels
that these comments are fine for after the concert, but we also feel that during the concert the audience should
refrain from interjections such as “get off”, “shut up”, “sit down”, and the perennial hiss.

There are several good reasons for our feeling this way about the unnecessary “noise” at concerts.

1.) It ruins the concert for those who have paid to see good entertainment without audience participation. A rude audience
is only hurting itself because an insulted performer is never at his best.

2.) Even though the hiss is an acceptable mode of expression around Davidson, outsiders such as the Righteous Brothers are
appalled by it, and refer to the Davidson audience as “the rudest bunch” they have ever seen, much less played
before.

3.) It is discouraging for members of the Social Council to work so hard for what we feel is a
great concert, only to see the Righteous Brothers cut half of their act because they are literally afraid of remaining
on stage too long.

4.) This unfavorable audience reaction hinders us in booking other top talent. Already reports have been received from other agents
who have already “heard all about” our student body.

5.) We feel that hissing makes an audience, if nothing else, look perfectly ridiculous to outsiders.

We can do nothing else but ask your cooperation in making the remainder of our concerts as successful as they
should be in every respect.

THE SOCIAL COUNCIL
Davidson College

B.C., ‘ever Notice. How SOMETIMES THE WATER IS UP To HERE,.... WHILE OTHER TIMES ITS ONLY UP To HERE.

THE CELLAR
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop

ART IN THE ROUND

Abstract composition within the circular field is the art form of Victor Huggins, examples of whose work appeared recently in
the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

Curriculum Change Vital To Davidson's Program

Dear Editor:

Davidson College has reached a fork in the road which will decide her future. In one direction lies the smoothly
paved road of mediocrity and tradition (i.e., being good, but not nearly the best). In the other direction lies the
road—unpaved, of course—toward a new and more mature concept of learning which could establish Davidson as a leader in higher
education.

Davidson has everything that is necessary for building a program at which other institutions would turn as green as their
ivy. She has a student body which is longing for a modern curriculum, professors who can ably present it, and
the material resources with which to make it a reality instead of the dream that it now is.

In the German university exists the state of pure academic freedom for which we are often told a liberal arts
college (Davidson?) strives. The German student selects the number of courses for which he feels he can do the work
and doesn’t have to worry about paying an extra tax if his desire or need for extra courses is above
a set limit, or if...he didn’t have a certain “projected average” when he entered. He attends class not because he
has only one cut left, but because he wants to learn. Since there are few tests or grades (there are
none in the larger lecture classes, but in the smaller seminars a final exercise, Klausurarbeit, or term paper, Hausarbeit, graded
on a pass or fail basis may be required), the student is left to work according to his own desire
and initiative. The student prepares himself for an exam (also pass or fail) given every three or four semesters which
determines his right to continue studying, and for the final (Abschluss) exam which usually comes after eight semesters of study.
If this free system works in a university, why wouldn't it work as well or even better at Davidson? Davidson
has an advantage which universities (German and American) and the majority of American colleges have lost at the undergraduate level
and that is the small size of her student body which enables close contact between students and professors and a
vital exchange of ideas and concepts on a personal level. If a new curriculum means trying new ideas, hiring more
professors (or replacing a few professors?), expanding course offerings, and the use of seminars as the main class unit, then
that is what must be done if Davidson wants to be counted among the top colleges of the future. Davidson
has reached the fork. Let's be bold enough to make the decision which will make other colleges look to Davidson
as a leader and as a goal in modern education and not vice versa. The time is now or never.

BOBBY MYERS
Marburg, W. Germany

SPECIAL! 15¢ OFF on a Chicken Dinner
DEC. 17-10

SPECIAL-15¢ OFF on a Chicken Dinner, THIS COUPON EXPIRES

gnome is scurrying to the library? Third, even if the non-gnome loses the Hare-and-Tortoise race to the library, it is
not possible for the gnome to keep out the necessary books longer than two weeks if the non-gnome puts in
a request for them. I feel the situation Mr. Kendrick describes only occurs when the non-gnome wanders over to the
library a few days before the paper falls due. (7) The gnome never lends his notes out. Shame, shame. The
gall of those gnomes! Not only do they attend class, but they actually take notes and listen, and even ask
questions to clear up points! And if that's not bad enough, they refuse to pick up hitchhikers and share their
ill-gotten spoils. I fear that I'm being excessively Aesopian, but this one reminds me of the Ant and the Grasshopper.
(8) The gnome’s weekly entertainment consists of drinking quarts of beer at Hattie's and being obnoxious. Come now, Mr. Kendrick!
Surely you must admit that the only difference in this area is that the gnome only worships Bacchus weekly, whereas
the non-gnome is somewhat more frequent! Or is that your criticism? (9) The gnome’s extra-curricular activities consist of (a) asking
irrelevant questions at Open End, or (b) throwing frisbees on Chambers Lawn. Perhaps (a) is explained by two observations: the
non-gnome, as his definition emerges in this letter, is rarely present at Open End, and, when present, he feels the
gnome's questions are irrelevant because he does not understand them (cf. Kendrick’s thesis No. 4 (b)); (b) I am grieved
to taint two hitherto unblemished reputations with gnomishness, but I, even I, saw our own beloved President and Fraternity Liaison
Officer throwing the object described in the very place mentioned. Yea, the hand of the Gnome doth lie heavily upon
Israel. (10) The gnome approves of a chapel speaker by taking notes, disapproves by hissing. This assertion is unacceptable to
any empirical observer, because the non-gnome is (1) not present (cf. No. 14), (2) asleep (cf. No. 3), or (3)
cramming for his next class; and thus unable to gather evidence to support this contention. (11) The gnome is upset
when he hears noise from a concert or an athletic event in his library den. This contention also fails for
lack of evidence, since (unless Kendrick himself is Unclean) its author has never been in the library during one of
the aforementioned events. (12) The gnome applies for scholarships at every graduate school, hurting non-gnomes’ chances. Again the repugnant nature
of the gnome is shown. Not only has the gnome unfairly studied for four years, but he actually expects to
take advantage of his work! The reports on overcrowded graduate schools, with no surety of acceptance regardless of record have
apparently not reached Mr. Kendrick, who with his non-gnome colleagues would have the gnome consult them about to which graduate
schools he may apply. (13) The gnome favors non-drinking on campus and compulsory Vespers. It is difficult to reconcile this
contention with Mr. Kendrick's No. 8, on the inebriety of gnomes, or No. 1, on their using every spare minute
for study. I suggest that Hattie’s does not offer an example of Academian quiet, and the gnomes who vote against
bringing Hattie’s home have this in mind, although I remain unconvinced that they are a majority. I challenge Mr. Kendrick’s
statement that gnomes vote for compulsory Vespers, and feel that he must have had certain pre-ministerial students in mind, who
count it as lab. (14) The gnome never cuts class, chapel, parking ticket. Again the non-gnome bias against attending class
is evident, and again a contradiction arises because chapel obviously offers needed study time, unless the speaker happens to offer
some promise. But then, cutting chapel on the basis of need or speaker poorness is alien to non-gnomes, who do
it as a social grace (Tea-Time at Mary’s). (15) The gnome bathes once a month, and his room smells bad.
Really, Mr. Kendrick! If you had surveyed the janitors instead of cutting this invective out of whole cloth, you would
have discovered that it is precisely your “gnomes” that maintain their rooms, effects and persons in cleanliness and order. If
the state of the room next to you offends your sensibilities to such an extent that you must publish the
fact, I cannot conceive of your entering the gym, as you imply you do. Underclassmen, you now see that two
can play Mr. Kendrick’s game, and also, I trust, how worthless and insubstantial his form and content of argument are.
The “gnome” he describes, if taken in all his 15 unlikely attributes, is a schizophrenic of whom there may exist
one; if the contradictions and absurdities Mr. Kendrick postulates are removed, he is the European student. If what Mr. Kendrick
advocates can be drawn from what he is against, the non-gnome emerges as a “student” against study, class attendance, professional
contact, careful preparation; and for noise after 11:00 p.m., dating intellectual equals conversant in four-letter terms, collective academic preparation, insensibility
in chapel and Open End, a 100% bidding system of graduate school acceptance, and receiving parking tickets. Underclassmen and upperclassmen,
if you recognize any of the traits of gnomishness or non-gnomishness in yourselves, it’s because you're normal. If you recognize
all the traits of gnomishness, you've got an enemy (Mr. Kendrick); if you recognize all the traits of non-gnomishness, you've
got a bad case of Fraternity Mentality.

JOHN FEUCHTENBERGER
Montpellier, France

Use Your Charge Account
