= . (Staff Photo by Olson)

STUDENTS, FACULTY USE COLLEGE'S IBM COMPUTER

The Computer Does Everything From Bidding Bridge To Checking Attendance

Improvements In Union

The College Union has undergone several physical changes recently in an effort to provide more efficient service for students and
visitors. The most noticeable change is the removal of a wall and the relocation of Mrs. Carol Cook's desk. She
will serve as receptionist and provide information for students and visitors. Behind the desk is a new office that will
be used for student activities. This will house the office for the presidents of the Interfraternity Council, Union, and Social
Council.

Tom Covington, assistant Union director, has a new office next to that of C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union.
Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, says that the partition for both of these offices are "Houserman partitions which
are moveable and easily relocated when need for them changes."

Meetze said this is the second time renovations have been made in the Union. Further plans include the building of
bookcases and the addition of louvered shutters on all the windows. Blinds and shades are being designed for the Morrison
room "that will be cheaper and easier to maintain over the long haul," according to Covington. "This is about all
we can do with the money available."

In discussing the present state of the Union, Covington said with the exception of the auxiliary dining room and the
lobby, the Union provides a pleasant atmosphere. The eyesore in the Union is the dining area opposite the snack bar
that Covington describes as "Davidson's intensive care unit." It has recently been improved by the addition of senior Herb Jackson's
painting and is scheduled to be painted as soon as labor is available. He would like to create in this
area a place where students and faculty could meet for coffee or lunch, engage in invigorating conversation, and get to
know each other better.

The biggest problem the Union faces is space utilization. Covington said "more meetings than ever are being held in the
Union." There is a lack of storage space and one of the upstairs dining areas is being used for storage.
The first priority need, when additional money is available, is to redecorate the upstairs lobby. The students should have their
own area in which to watch TV and read magazines instead of this "noisy area where there is constant activity."
This area is one where prospective students and dignitaries are brought and should be more attractive, according to Covington.

By JOHN BARBER
Staff Writer

"The computer here at Davidson is for use by the students as well as by the administration," stressed Dr. Jerry
Roberts, assistant professor of mathematics and faculty supervisor of the computer facilities. Roberts added that the computer, an IBM 1620,
is used at present about half the time that it might be used. According to him, the college requires a
minimum of instruction for a student to obtain a license for using the computer.

There are a number of students working without faculty supervision on various projects. Generally, the only real profit has been
experience, but as Roberts noted, several recent graduates have found such experience useful in getting into graduate school.

Junior Ron Dougherty has programmed the computer to bid bridge hands. He has programmed it to bid and rebid by
either opening or responding. Dougherty commented that since he has taught the computer to bid he has changed his own
bidding method. Steve Lee, also a junior, has programmed the computer to harmonize figured bass lines and compose 17th-century chorales
in the German style. He says he is working toward complete four-part counterpoint.

A student may take any of three courses, Math 21, 43, or 44, to qualify for a license to use
the computer. Previous training, however, may be sufficient. Located in the same area of the Chambers basement, the computer is
adjacent to a separate data processing system, where punch card records are kept. This system is the one school officials
are using most at the present. This summer Roberts plans to evaluate possible uses of the computer for the administration.
Robert Stephenson, a new member of the business office, will also try to find future programs for both the computer
and for students from 8 to 10.

Griffin Labban Hopkins Kaylor Lloyd McGeachy IFC Toc

SCUBA INSTRUCTOR EXPLAINS

William E. Wolff Outlines Diving Procedures For Class

Scuba Diving Students Learn Proper Methods

Scuba diving students are learning the techniques of the sport, in classes sponsored by the Student Council. These classes are
conducted by William E. Wolff, a former scuba instructor at the YMCA in Charlotte. Two classes are held weekly, on
Monday and Tuesday nights. So far there have been two class sessions of the eight-session course. The first covered, among
other things, regulators (one-hose, two-hose, etc.), calculation of the amount of air left in a tank, and charts on how
long a person can stay down without getting the bends. The second covered the process of decompression, or coming up
out of the water from the higher pressures of deep water to lesser pressures nearer the surface. Snorkel and tank
sessions and lectures vary the course.

The scuba classes have the approval of the Athletic Department, so the group will use the college pool for its
water sessions. After the course is completed, the class will dive in a spring near Statesville if weather permits. Since
the students will be familiar with the basics of skin and scuba diving, they will then be ready for open
water diving with an experienced person. Members of the Davidson class may become members of the Scubateers, a club consisting
of interested graduates of Wolff's program. The club will participate in open water dives in the spring and fall of
next year. In this way, the program continues.

Classes here are conducted on strictly an interest basis. The cost is $18, and students are expected to furnish some
basic equipment, a mask, fins, and snorkel. Bill Watson, Student Council representative, is handling all membership recruitment.Interfraternity Council coordinated plans
for fraternity Homecoming activities in its weekly meeting Tuesday night at the College Union. The council announced that President Grier
Martin would crown the Homecoming Queen. Fraternities were asked to submit pictures of their candidate for queen for publication in
THE DAVIDSONIAN. IFC President Mike Booe urged the fraternities to announce Homecoming weekend parties and to specify whether they are
open or closed to non-members. He warned members of the IFC to see that all parties were registered in keeping
with IFC rules. Booe also told the council that the fraternities should note that the special social weekend curfew is
in effect. This curfew allows the parties to continue until 5 a.m. Saturday morning and 3 a.m. Sunday morning. According
to the council, tickets will be issued for parking on the wrong side of the fraternity drive during Homecoming. Also,
one-way traffic rules will be enforced.

Two Problems Plague Plans For Eating Club

Plans for establishing an eating house for Independents are still in the elementary stages, according to Joe Obenshain, Senior spokesman
for the Independents. There are two major problems. First, out of seven students on a committee studying the purpose of
an eating club, all but one have graduated or left Davidson. Therefore, the primary concern is to reorganize the committee.
Last year’s chairman, who transferred from Davidson, also has not yet returned the questionnaires in which he collected student opinion
concerning the proposal. With a new student committee and the final results of the questionnaire (over 90 students indicated positive
interest to join such a club), the Independents will be prepared to approach the administration of Davidson with evidence of
student concern. Obenshain said that there would be no eating house before next year at the earliest. The college must
give permission to hire an architect to design the house. Then the administration will be able to approach the financial
problem. Last year there was much controversy over the split in the academic and social life at Davidson. Many students
thought that one studied in the Chambers Building and played in the Union or in fraternities. With the proposed eating
house, Obenshain seeks to “integrate the various activities of student life - both social and intellectual.” The establishment of a
house, he said, in which a number of students can eat, learn, and entertain, would permit a more unified and
freer individual life.

YMCA Will Present Berman As Speaker

Dr. Daniel Berman, professor of political science at American University in Washington, D.C., and the first YMCA great issues speaker
at Davidson this year, will speak on the “New Left in the United States” during chapel period Monday. Berman received
his AB degree from Rutgers University, AM from the University of Wisconsin, and his PhD from American University. He is
the author of two textbooks used in political science courses at Davidson: A Bill Becomes A Law: The Civil Rights
Act of 1960 and A Bill Becomes A Law: Congress Enacts Civil Rights Legislation. The main theme dealt with by
the YMCA Great Issues speakers this year is the social revolution in the United States. The other two speakers are
Dr. Dennis Doolin, Red China analyst from the Hoover Institute of Stanford University on Dec. 5, and Dr. Kenneth Boulding,
University of Michigan economics professor, author of The Meaning Of The Twentieth Century on Jan. 4 (tentative). From 3 p.m.
to 4 p.m., Berman will give an informal address followed by a discussion in the Morrison Room at the Union.

Sunday Night Open House

The following professors will hold open house from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. this Sunday night: Marrotte, Stroud, Nicholls, Welsh,
Polley.

Freshmen Plan Several Activities

The Freshman Council, through its class projects, is trying to stimulate class spirit and unity within the Freshman Class. At
its meeting Tuesday night in the Union, the council proposed several activities that would indirectly develop this sense of unity.
One project set up for Friday and Saturday night is the showing of the film, “The Cincinnati Kid,” in the
Union at 50 cents per person. Another major project is the proposed pre-Homecoming campus clean-up. This clean-up on Thursday and
Friday afternoons will cover the campus and will supplement the efforts of the crews, who regularly police the grounds.

Other items brought before the council were a proposed means of freshman transportation, a possible mixer with Salem, and an
orientation-evaluation questionnaire.

Data Processing Systems

Stephenson comes to Davidson with a background of experience with processing systems. Part of his job is concerned with devising
programs for any task not already mechanized with the aid of these systems. One problem here, emphasized Dean of Students
Richard C. Burts, is that of coordinating the various questionnaires and forms used inside or outside of the campus to
eliminate repetition. Student reaction is also a factor, but Burts found a large part of the student body enthusiastic about
such programs as computer dates for freshmen mixers.

Advertisements

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

COLLEGE RESTAURANT
SPECIALIZING IN
STEAKS
SEAFOOD
PLATE LUNCHES
Main St. Davidson

THE CELLAR
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
Never Over $1.00 Cover
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Behind Conder Soda Shop

“TIRES OUR SPECIALTY”
W. T. “Bill” Gurley
ESSO SERVICE
Main and South Streets
Phone 892-9304
GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

SLACKS and more SLACKS
by HAGGAR
HUNTER HAIG
CORBIN
FARAH
7.00 to 24.00
And an outstanding group of school and casual slacks in permanent-press
7.00 8.00 9.00
Come get yours

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Come To Us For Your HOMECOMING FLOWERS!
Cornelius, N.C. Flowers
Phone 892-8856 today. Open a Charge Account
John Mock & Son
Mooresville—Only 6 Miles North

THE GALLEY RESTAURANT
WHER-RENA MARINA
FEATURING:
SEAFOOD
STEAKS
CHICKEN
PIZZAS
SHORT ORDERS
REASONABLE PRICES
PLUS DISCOUNT TO DAVIDSON STUDENTS
AVAILABLE FOR AFTER-PARTIES
HIGHWAY 73 WEST
2 MILES OFF U.S. 21
WHER-RENA MARINA
DINE OVERLOOKING LAKE NORMAN
