PAGE SIX

Should the powers that be here at Davidson ever decide that a few horticulture courses are needed to boost the
curriculum, the right man for the job would be none other than Dean Frontis Johnston. While outwardly assuming the role
of dean of the faculty, Johnston has been surreptitiously transforming himself into a botanist of no mean talent. Whether this
is to train himself for a professorship in the aforementioned horticulture department, or to have something to fall back on
when he retires is not known. At any rate, as soon as THE DAVIDSONIAN learned of Dean Johnston’s sub rosa
activities, it immediately demanded an interview with the dean on this earthy subject.

The dean claims that he first became interested in growing boxwoods and azaleas about five or six years ago and
camellias about three years ago. Since then he has rooted so many plants that both his greenhouses are overflowing. He
estimates his total worth in greenery at about 1,500-2,000 plants with many varieties.

Johnston built his first greenhouse entirely by himself. About 300 square feet, it soon proved inadequate for his needs, and
he was forced to branch out into another larger greenhouse which he built from pre-fabricated sections. With all of this
equipment he was in a position to really experiment with his plants. Having taught himself the basics of rooting and
culture, he attacked the thornier problems of grafting and improving his blooms. This latter he does, at times, by adding
to his blooms giberellic acid, a relatively new chemical which sometimes greatly increases the size of a bloom or plant
(what do you think changed the Jolly Green Giant from an asparagus to a herbaceous Paul Bunyan?). By this method
he has produced such interesting results as camellia blooms seven inches in diameter.

Now that Johnston has mastered the art of horticulture he finds himself with an overflow of blooms of all types—mainly
camellias. As a result, he is all too happy to give away all anyone may want; in fact, he would
be relieved if someone would take some off his hands. This presents a perfect opportunity for housemothers to install a
little beauty in the houses during these dreary days, and for students to impress their dates with a beautiful, but
free, camellia corsage.

Johnston has no certain plans for his greenhouse ventures in the future, but he may enter a show or two
this spring. THE DAVIDSONIAN wishes him good luck in his future horticultural activities but hopes it is a long time
before he leaves his post in the administration department for greener pastures.

JOHNSTON HOSES HIS ROSES
Rooted Plants Overflow Greenhouse

A series of vocational guidance tests for sophomores will be administered Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the basement of Chambers.
The tests are the same as those which in past years have been given only to seniors, according to Dr.
W. B. Hight, director of the Student Counseling Service.

Those sophomores who desire to take the tests must sign up in Hight's office. There will be no charge for
the tests, which would cost around $200 if taken commercially. The total of seven tests includes two mental ability tests
to be given in the afternoon and five other tests which are to be self-administered, one each day for five
days. These five tests include three interest tests and two personality tests.

This battery of tests began as a guide for student placement, but the program enlarged when seniors who were not
going through placement asked to take the tests. Last year Hight tested several sophomores to see if the testing program
would be worthwhile. The results proved successful, so this year the tests will be made available to all sophomores.

Scholarship Finalists Arrive For Weekend

Forty-two high school seniors are participating in Davidson's annual scholarship weekend this week, according to Bob Orr of the Admissions
Office. The finalists who are here for interviews concerning the awarding of competitive scholarships will be hosted by students, most
of whom are previous scholarship finalists.

The weekend's program began Thursday night with a coffee for hosts, finalists, and members of the Scholarship Committee. Interviews with
the committee and tours of the college facilities will take up a large part of the schedule. There will be,
however, much free time in which the finalists can talk with students and faculty or audit classes of their choice.
The program will officially end tomorrow with a luncheon, at which the winners will be announced.

CAMPUS FLOATS IN PLATFORMS

The abundance of candidates’ mimeographed platforms caused the campus to be literally engulfed by the innocuous writings this week. More
than a proportionate share found themselves in showers, as campus heads, serving as popular gathering places, were singled out to
get the brunt of the platforms. (Staff Photo by Thel.)

To Present Ensemble

The Artist Series Committee will present “I Solisti Veneti,” a string ensemble from Venice, at 8 p.m. next Friday in
Chambers Auditorium as the last attraction in its current series. Solisti Veneti, acclaimed throughout Europe as one of the most
extraordinary ensembles of our time, is composed of 16 instrumentalists. The conductor is Claudio Scimone, who teaches special master classes
for chamber groups at the Conservatorio Benedetto Marcello in Venice. The ensemble was founded in 1959 by a group of
young musicians who were connected not only by common studies at the conservatories of Venice, Milan, and other cities, but
also by a common desire to explore and perform the vast repertory of Italian music from the 17th and 18th
centuries.Week in May as part of this year’s Fine Arts Festival. “This play is exciting and difficult," Barber said, “and
there are plenty of parts available for students.”

Elections (Continued From Page One)

and Padua but also by the fact that they were born in the Venetian region. There were two exceptions in
the voting. In yesterday’s runoff, K. D. Weeks was eliminated, leaving Randy Bridges, Harry Hamil, and Johnny Durham in the
running.

However, the American violinist Ronald Valpred, who had finished his violin studies at the Venice Conservatory, and Randolph Shackelford, the
harpsichordist, who is a native Carolinian. For their Davidson program, I Solisti Veneti will be heard in Vivaldi's “The Four
Seasons” (complete concerti “Spring,” “Summer,” “Autumn,” and “Winter”) with violin soloist, Piero Toso.

Bill Rikard led voting for freshman advisor with 52 votes. A runoff was held today between him and Gary DeVane.
Eliminated in yesterday's voting were Rich Graham with 24, Chris Hawk with 23, and Gordie Mueller with 13. Voting will
begin Monday for class representatives to the Student Council.

Interested Sophomores

Hight pointed out that this is a special battery of tests for a special purpose “to reveal information enabling a
boy to gain insight and to help him to make an honest appraisal of himself.” By taking the tests early
and making an appraisal of the results with the aid of the Student Counseling Office, the student may benefit during
his college career from the insights he gains.

Another advantage in taking tests in the sophomore year is that the same tests can be taken again in the
senior year. The comparative results may then be used by the Student Counseling Office as an additional guide for placement.
When the results of the sophomore tests have been compiled, students will be notified. If so desired, a student may
plan a conference with Hight which may be helpful in appraising the results of the tests.

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1966

Full Financial Picture

Expenditures for weekends and for events sponsored jointly with the College Union have accounted for the major part of approximately
$19,300 spent so far this year by the Social Council. Figures released by Irv Welling, treasurer of the Social Council,
showed $16,256 spent on weekends and $2,256 spent on events sponsored jointly with the Union. Welling told THE DAVIDSONIAN that
he believes “the money has been well spent.” “It is hard to realize all the problems and all the details
involved in putting on a year's social activities,” Welling continued.

As examples of other expenditures necessary during the year, Welling listed administrative expenses (stationery, postage, etc.), $50; telephone, $193; printing,
$165; Quips and Cranks, $90; and expenses of members of the Social Council attending the area booking convention, $177. “Davidson
books entertainment at rock-bottom prices, lower than the prices for the same entertainment at other area schools due to the
influence of C. Shaw Smith, director of the Student Union,” Welling said. “Mr. Smith knows many agents and is able
to get about the best available deals,” Welling continued.

In the category of major weekends, the Social Council spent $3,608 on Homecoming activities and $4,373 on Midwinters. Concert weekends,
with such entertainment as the Four Preps and Peter Nero, accounted for approximately $6,000 of the Social Council's expenditures. An
additional $2,557 was spent on minor weekends of combo parties, refreshments, etc. Behind the actual entertainment for each weekend are
many other expenses such as labor (running spotlights, setting up stages, etc.), refreshments, security police, and publicity. The Social Council's
financial standing for the remainder of the year is excellent, according to Welling.

Figures Released On Ford Campaign

A total of $1,848,637 has now been tabulated in advance gifts and pledges for the $7,700,000 Ford Challenge program, according
to a report from Walter L. Lingle Jr., of Cincinnati, national co-chairman for major gift solicitation. This represents an $847,337
increase over the $1,001,300 total announced in December, according to a message from Lingle read at a Charlotte-Mecklenburg Davidson dinner
at Nixon's Steak House last night. The event was one of a series of such dinners which will be held
in over 30 cities in connection with the general canvas of Davidson alumni, parents, and friends which will be held
between now and June 15.

The Hub

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

New titles in The Modern Library:

A JOHNSON READER—Edited by E. L. McAdam, Jr. and George Milne. A broad selection of Samuel Johnson's works, with notes
and introductions by the editors.

SHORT NOVELS (Vol. II) by Leo Tolstoy. The eight short novels completed in the years following the appearance of War
and Peace. (An Original Selection)

New Modern Library Titles for Spring $2.45 each

DOCTOR FAUSTUS by Thomas Mann. A modern version of the Faust legend is the narrative successor to The Magic Mountain.

THE HINDU TRADITION—Edited by Ainslie T. Embree. An exploration of the essential meaning of the Hindu way of life. (An
Original Selection)

Current Favorites:

SELECTED WRITINGS OF TRUMAN CAPOTE Truman Capote

THE SOUND AND THE FURY William Faulkner

ABSALOM, ABSALOM! William Faulkner

AS I LAY DYING William Faulkner

THE TRIAL Franz Kafka

GO DOWN, MOSES William Faulkner

THE PLAGUE Albert Camus

New Modern Library Giant and Current Favorites: $3.95 each

ULYSSES James Joyce

THE LEATHERSTOCKING READER by James Fenimore Cooper. (Including those parts of several novels which pertain to that memorable fictional character,
Natty Bumppo.)

WAR AND PEACE Leo Tolstoy

THE STUDENT STORE Davidson College
