FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Faulk Receives Award

Steve Faulk, freshman tennis prospect, has been named top athlete in New Orleans. Coach Harry Fogleman was informed that Faulk had been chosen. Faulk was recently a finalist in the Sugar Bowl tournament. He was selected for the award over all other athletes in New Orleans. This was a tribute to Faulk, as many of the former recipients have been much older. Faulk has been in contact with the committee in order to arrange for transportation to New Orleans later this month to attend a banquet honoring him and the other outstanding area athletes. (Staff Photo by Purvis)

ERIC NICHOLS PLIES TRADE
Grapples In Practice With Lowell Bryan (On Bottom)

IMAC Opens Year Lazily

The IMAC basketball action has found itself plagued by post-holiday laxity. Of the 16 games scheduled since the Christmas break, only six were played as scheduled.

The week has held three surprises. The Pikas’ success, the Independents’ victory, and the Betas’ near-victory were notable. The Pikas attributed their phenomenal improvement to a newly organized (7?) ‘scrambled eggs’ team. It is patterned after the Marquette team that failed to win against the Wildcats. The floor leader, incomparable, inscrutable, Muldoon Briggs, said, “The scrambled eggs team is designed to go when the game gets tight and help the first team out of trouble.”

The Pikas roared by the Nus, 42-27, and whipped the SAE’s, 52-25, as a barefooted Muldoon played courageously on the hardwood. Mark Brown poured in 31 points to lead the Independents to a 66-64 upset over the KA’s. The game was termed as the Indies’ finest effort of the year.

Undermanned Matmen To Play Host

The Davidson matmen meet Emory University in Johnston Gym Thursday in an attempt to even their record at 2-2 for the season. The ’Cats have beaten Furman this year, while losing to UNC and VMI.

The varsity has been weakened this year due to lack of experience in several weight classes.

2-1 Record By K. D. WEEKS Davidsonian Sports Writer

Eric Nichols, termed by his teammates as a great competitor and untiring worker, has led the Davidson grapplers to a 1-2 record early in this season. Nichols, team captain for the wrestlers, has a 2-1 record of his own which could easily be 3-0. Conquering his 177-pound Furman and VMI opponents in the first two matches, Nichols carried a wrist injury into the third match which he normally would have taken.

Nichols, leader in campus affairs as a member of the Honor Court, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and Who's Who, is praised by wrestling coach Charlie Parker as a fine leader on the mats. “One thing that makes him valuable to the team in addition to his ability is his tremendous leadership. He is enthusiastic, loyal to the team, and works as hard or harder than any other wrestler. That is what makes him so good.” Parker goes on to say that Nichols has improved more in four years than anyone he has seen.

It was another teammate that was quick to mention that “Nichols was suffering from additional injuries on his leg and shoulder, and had no business out there.”

When asked of his opponents, Nichols has trouble remembering them. “I try to get them in and out of my mind as fast as possible,” he quips. Of Nichols, his roommate Barry St. Clair commented, “I know Eric works hard, he comes in tired after the normal hour and a half practice. His goal is to be conference champ and he should win the championship, he’s a great competitor.”

Tar Babies Whip ’Kittens, 93-65

Davidson’s Wildkittens, reassembled after the Christmas holidays, ran into a hot-shooting North Carolina freshman team on Tuesday and absorbed their second loss of the season, 93-65.

Exhibiting little offense, Davidson fell far behind in the first half. Paced by Dick Gruber and Bill Bunting, the highly-touted Tar Babies rang up a 48-22 lead.

However, the Wildkittens clawed their way back with a better second-half showing, led by Greg Simmons, a 160-pounder, Brian Pittman, 177 pounds, and Rusty Clark. Crosswhite held the Tar Babies’ leading scorer ten points below his average with his defensive play against towering Rusty Clark.

In the next week, before exams, the Wildkittens will face three opponents. Gardner-Webb brings their best team ever to Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow.

The hapless Betas came within two angstroms of beating the Phi Delts. The game was extremely close until the final minutes when Beta efforts at the foul line failed to gain the victory. The final score was 44-39.

In other games, the Pi Kapps beat the SPE’s and Cannon B scored by...the margin of a sin. night in a preliminary to the classes. The middleweights are promising freshmen. Said now, “whipped East A in the freshman single field goal.” Coach Terry Hol- Davidson-West Virginia tussle where there should be more wrestlers than any other division, has the least number of experienced wrestlers. 

The Citadel will put a scrappy hustling ballclub on display at Johnston Gymnasium on Tuesday. Some outstanding wrestlers this year are Joe Buffington, who wrestles in the 123-pound division, and heavyweight Lowell Bryan, both of whom have a record of three wins against no defeats. 

The Wildcat swimmers host a strong team from the University of South Carolina Tuesday afternoon. “South Carolina has one of the finest teams in the nation,” commented Coach Stevens. “They had a crack freshman team last year, and as a result, most of their stars are sophomores,” added Stevens. 

Leading the Gamecocks will be British Empire champion John Marrato of Australia. “This boy can swim any event,” remarked Coach Stevens, “but I believe they plan to use him in the 50-yard freestyle.” Opposing Marrato in that event will be sophomore Tom Irons, whom Coach Stevens believes holds the school record in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:24 minutes. Davidson enters the meet with a 2-1 record, sinking Wake Forest and The Citadel while losing to Virginia. According to Coach Stevens, “I've been rather pleased with the team so far. The boys have been working real hard to get back in shape after the Christmas break.”

Dean Cromartie, a 123-pounder, and 152-pound Rick Travilla were also exceptional wrestlers. 

Coach Parker says, “The Freshman team is probably the best freshman team as a whole that I've ever had.” There are several outstanding yearling wrestlers on the team this year. Kerry Keith, the Virginia High School State Champion, wrestles heavyweight but only weighs 177 pounds. Colin Hudson, 123 pounds, was the runner-up for the Virginia state title in his weight division.

Nichols Captains Grapplers

Nichols will probably stay in the same class he has been in, although there is a possibility of his dropping ten pounds and wrestling in the class one bracket lower. “We need him in the 177-pound class, but might change him by tournament time,” commented Coach Parker. Parker was optimistic about Nichols’ chances of taking the conference championship in the tournament. Before that, there will be one match in January and five more in February.

WAYNE HUCKEL DRIVES FOR EASY BUCKET

Freshmen Flash Scores In Recent Action

The newest Detroit sound comes from a combo called 4-4-2. Rocket Action Car! TORONADO + NINETY-EIGHT + DELTA 88 + OLDS. Up-tempo all the way. With a 400-cube V-8 and 4-barrel carb to carry the lead. Heavy-duty front and rear suspension to smooth the beat. Acoustically tuned twin pipes to modulate the sound. And red-line tires to keep the whole score on track. That’s 4-4-2. Try about four bars today. It’s your kind of music! LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW! OLDSMOBILE 4-4-2.