FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1966

FC Discusses Plans For Area Conference

Plans for the Southeastern Interfraternity Conference and Greek Week were discussed at the Interfraternity Council meeting Monday night. The conference
will be held March 31-April 2 at the University of Tennessee, Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, described the conference as
“an information exchange among interfraternity councils in the Southeast. It will be similar to the National Interfraternity Conference, but on
a smaller scale," Covington added. Such topics as co-op buying and fraternity status on campus will be discussed. Representatives from
national fraternities will be present as resource personnel. The IFC plans to send five members.

David Westfall, IFC Greek Week chairman, announced several recent plans for Greek Week. A banquet is planned Monday night, April
4, to start the week. William LeClere, executive secretary of Chi Psi fraternity, will be the guest speaker. Sigma Phi
Epsilon has tentatively scheduled its Pledge Class Regatta for Friday afternoon, April 8. It was announced that pontoon boats will
not be allowed this year. “At the present time no other definite plans have been made,” Westfall added. “We hope
to have some specific activities outlined within the next few weeks.”

The general feeling concerning the first fraternity-faculty open houses Sunday night was that they were generally a success. “We thought
that it was real good,” commented Tom Brown, Pi Kappa Alpha representative. “Both the students present and the faculty seemed
to enjoy it a great deal. We were a little disappointed, however, that there was only one student there who
was not in our fraternity.” The participation of students seemed to be confined to the individual fraternity's members. The IFC
emphasized that all members of the student body are invited and encouraged to attend these fraternity open houses.

Mrs. Abernethy Shows Paintings

An exhibition of paintings and drawings by Helen M. Abernethy will be displayed in the Cunningham Art Center during the
month of March. This is the second showing of Mrs. Abernethy’s work at Davidson. In a previous showing for the
faculty wives club in the College Union, the local artist displayed a group of still-lifes and sketches.

Mrs. Abernethy, whose husband is philosophy professor Dr. George Abernethy, was at one time a commercial artist in Chicago and
has taught art in the public schools of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Indianapolis, Ind. She served as Associate Professor of
Art at Barber-Scotia College in Concord. The local artist received her B.S. degree from the University of Wisconsin and her
M.A. degree from the University of Chicago. She has studied at a number of art schools, including the Chicago Art
Institute and the Art Students’ League in New York.

Open House After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
- Abbott
- Bernard
- Bondurant
- Covington
- Dagey
- Fredericksen
- Holland
- Houchens
- King
- Lloyd
- Marrotte
- Martin, S.
- McGill
- Minter
- Nichols, Mrs.
- Richey
- Scott
- Stroud
- Wolf
- Workman

‘THE GLASS MENAGERIE’

The glass unicorn symbolizes the production of Tennessee Williams’ “The Glass Menagerie,” which will be presented by the Department of
Drama Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of next week. Performances will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Tickets are now
on sale for the Saturday night performance which will be presented for students and dates in conjunction with the Social
Council weekend.

Davidson Debaters Journey To Duke, L-R

Davidson's varsity and novice debate teams will participate in tournaments this weekend. The varsity tournament will be held at Duke
University. Two teams of varsity debaters will compete: Mike Mooty and Tom Earnhardt composing one team, and Greg Haynes and
Tom Rhodes composing the other. Competing in this tournament will be teams from all over the Eastern seaboard and the
Midwest.

Davidson debaters Charles Eakes and Fletcher Hartsell, and Jim Cooley and Shep Johnston will participate in the L-R tournament. Teams
mainly from the South will participate in this tournament. Coach McMillin was hesitant to express his opinion about the teams’
chances. He emphasized, “This is the teams’ first year of competition, and they are still developing their talents in competitive
debate.”

Wednesday Deadline Set For Election Filing

Wednesday midnight is the deadline for filing for the Honor Court, Student Council, YMCA, student body offices, cheerleaders, and freshman
advisor. Lee Fanning, chairman of the Elections Committee, said that few notifications were in, but that he expected the majority
of them just before the deadline.

Students wishing to run for office should first go to either Fanning or Bill Logan and sign a statement to
agree to conform with campaign procedures. They should then pick up a stencil for their platforms. The content of the
platform is entirely up to the candidate, as long as he uses no slanderous or derogatory remarks. The stencils should
be returned to Fanning before 6 p.m. Thursday, so that they can be submitted to Thom Blair of the statements
committee. After the platforms are approved and printed, the copies will be returned to the candidates sometime before 9 p.m.
Friday.

If a student needs to use an absentee ballot, he should sign his election card and bring it to Fanning’s
room sometime before elections. The election cards will be distributed in chapel Thursday. The only change in this year's election
procedure is the time of voting for the YMCA president. This voting will be postponed a day so that students
will have time to hear presidential candidates’ speeches before they vote.

Area High Schools Debate In Tourney

The first annual Wildcat High School Debate Tournament was held at Davidson last weekend, with 15 schools in the state
participating. Lee Edwards High School in Asheville and Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem tied for first place. Davidson debate coach
Ray McMillin was pleased with the turnout, which he termed about “average for such a tournament.” He added that he
hoped that the tournament could be made an annual affair.

On April 6 Davidson will host the District Playoff for the North Carolina Forensic Union of high schools. This tournament
is sponsored by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.This year, Bill Taylor is in charge of ballot printing,
Alan Johnson is in charge of ballot counting and Bill Logan is in charge of publicity.

ELECTION SCHEDULE

Monday, March 7
Chapel. Explanation of procedures.

Wednesday, March 9
Filing deadline for student body offices, Honor Court, freshman advisor, Student Council, defense attorney, and cheerleaders. 6 p.m. Deadline for
stencils of platforms.

Thursday, March 10
Voting for student body vice president and secretary-treasurer, Honor Court and editors of Quips and Cranks and Miscellany. 7:30 p.m.
Forum for student body president candidates.

Monday, March 14
Voting for student body president and DAVIDSONIAN editor. Runoffs for Honor Court and student body vice president and secretary-treasurer.

Tuesday, March 15
Voting for cheerleaders, College Union president and any runoffs.

Wednesday, March 16
Chapel. Speeches by YMCA president candidates. Voting for YMCA officers (except president), freshman advisor and any runoffs.

Thursday, March 17
Filing by candidates losing in previous election for defense attorney and Student Council representatives.

Friday, March 18
Voting for YMCA president and any runoffs.

Monday, March 21
Voting for Student Council representatives and defense attorney. Any runoffs.

Tuesday, March 22
For Ford Grant Money with him during spring break. He noted that campaign officials were aware that many students would
not be home during spring break, but added, “The campaign runs through June 30, which should give everybody time enough
to get it done.”

By KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student leaders and administration officials this week launched a “Student Challenge Fund" campaign which will give Davidson students a chance
to collect $250,000 of the $5 million the college needs for the Ford Challenge Grant. A student committee, headed by
Joe Jelks and composed of leaders from each fraternity and the Independents, met for dinner Wednesday night to set up
the campaign organization. The object of the campaign is to contact potential donors who are not associated with the college
in any formal capacity and who would therefore not be contacted by the regular campaign drive. The committee hopes to
raise the $250,000 by June 30. The Ford Foundation will give Davidson 40 percent of whatever the students raise.

“NEW FRIENDS”
The basic plan of the campaign is as follows: Each member of the student body will be furnished with a
card, on which he will list the names and addresses of five potential “new friends” of Davidson. The students will
return these cards to the alumni office by March 15 and the college will mail the potential donors a letter
from President D. Grier Martin and explanatory literature about the college and the Ford Challenge Fund. During spring break the
students will contact all those people whose names they gave to the college and will hopefully secure a pledge from
them. Each student will be furnished with literature about the college and the Ford Challenge Grant which will enable him
to discuss the fund drive intelligently with the potential donor.

W. L. Bondurant, director of alumni activities, stated that students should contact their parents or alumni in their area and
ask for information about people in their area who might be willing to contribute. The student should then write the
potential donor, Bondurant said, and set up an appointment with him during spring break. Bondurant expressed optimism that the campaign
will succeed. “$250,000 is reaching high, but it can be done. Fifteen years ago students raised $80,000 for the swimming
pool in Johnston Gym. Our goal is a lot higher than that this time, but we think that it is
possible for the students to reach it. We have noticed that students can often make progress in fund-raising drives where
alumni can’t.” He noted that a pilot student fund-raising committee raised $3,000 during Christmas vacation. “This campaign will give the
students a chance to participate in Davidson's effort to compete with the finest men's liberal arts colleges in the country,
not just in the South,” Bondurant concluded.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 662-3681

GASKEY & NEILL FLORIST & GIFTS
383-385 N. Main St.
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

The novice tournament will be held at Lenoir Rhyne College in Hickory. Coach Ray McMillin will send two teams of
novice debaters.

La Roma Spaghetti Rendezvous in Charlotte
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
— Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
1840 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576

GO! GO! GO! GO with the ’Cats to Philadelphia! GO with them all the way! GO the right way with
new Spring and Summer clothing from Tate-Brown’s. We have the winners:
GANT SHIRTS
WEEJUNS
CORBIN SLACKS
SPORT COATS AND SUITS BY MADISONAIRE
COLLEGE HALL
HUNTER HAIG
THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN—126 S. TRYON STREET
COTSWOLD — WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER

The “in” thing to do is catch Olds 88 Swing Fever. So here. Catch! You're now a candidate for an
Olds 88, one of the most formidable machines ever to touch rubber to road! Delta, Dynamic and Jetstar 88—eleven Toronado-inspired
models in all—ready to rocket you into spring. Each comes on with standard safety items like windshield washers, back-up lights,
more! So buckle up (seat belts are standard, too) and take the cure! At your Oldsmobile Dealer’s!

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW! STEP OUT FRONT in a Rocket Action Car!
