ba = The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LeSine
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

Chen Hawk
Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1966

Recognition For Sailing

For more than two years, Davidson's sailing team has competed as an integral part of the college’s sports scene. They
meet all the criteria that would qualify a team for a varsity sport. Yet, the Athletic Department refuses to recognize
the team as such. Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director, has based his objections to recognition on the grounds that the
team does not meet certain nebulous eligibility requirements, and that the team does not compete on an intercollegiate level.

The question of eligibility involves one of whose standards one uses. Sailing is not recognized by the Southern Conference as
an intercollegiate sport; consequently, the team cannot compete on that level. Instead, it belongs to a separate organization, the South
Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association. The campus sailors meet all the eligibility requirements for competition in that organization. But though Dr.
Scott has not yet pointed to such a requirement, the team has agreed to meet Southern Conference standards if it
will help them gain recognition. They have agreed to comply with the distinction between the two groups: the Southern Conference
ban against allowing freshmen to compete.

It has also been claimed that the sailors have no coach, another requirement of the Southern Conference. Given, no member
of the Athletic Department works with them, but they do have a faculty sponsor who works with them at their
weekly practices and functions as a coach. There have been other varsity sports under the direction of faculty members, as
members of the ROTC Department now coach the rifle team.

The objection based on a lack of intercollegiate competition has absolutely no basis. The team competes with all the members
of the SAISA, including Duke, College of Charleston, University of South Carolina, The Citadel, William and Mary, and Old Dominion.
Now going into its third year, the team is well established. Approximately $500 of the Athletic Department's budget each year
goes to the team to defray costs of competing in meets. Such financing is itself a tacit admission of the
role the sailors play in the college's sports program.

Last spring, the D Club endorsed the idea of allowing the team to be classified as a varsity sport and
be eligible to receive varsity letters. When members of the team have demonstrated their stability and interest—a genuine seriousness for
their sport—the least that can be done is for them to be recognized as legitimate, not a bastard sport.

Hollins Setting Pace

As Davidson gradually steps into the area of curriculum reform, another small Southern liberal arts college is preparing to implement
a sweeping curriculum change that could well serve as an inspiration to Davidson. Hollins College is instituting changes that will
put the emphasis of education on individual initiative and responsibility. In allowing flexibility and diversity, Hollins is demonstrating its confidence
that its students possess the maturity expected of college students at an above-average school.

Required courses are being virtually abolished, with the only necessary course being a humanities program for freshmen over a 12-week
term. Instead of requiring specific courses, students must choose a distribution from four different disciplines: the humanities, social sciences, natural
sciences, and the arts. The humanities program undertakes no such vast ideal as attempting to explore the entire Western Civilization—rather,
the small (five to 13 members) classes study a particular problem in history or some public issue.

A second drastic change is the three-term structure, consisting of two 12-week terms and one four-week term. The short term,
which falls between the two longer ones, will be devoted to some individual project, with no regular academic work interfering.
There aren’t even any requirements of what form the individual project will take. It may be poetry, a research paper,
involving library work or field trips to do on-the-spot work. The oft-mentioned pass-fail system will remove any academic pressure that
might interfere with the work. Students can undertake projects that a letter grade might otherwise discourage. Unfortunately, Hollins did not
see fit to extend the pass-fail system to the regular academic work that students undertake in the 12-week terms.

One particularly valuable aspect of the new curriculum will be its de-emphasis on departmental lines. The independent project need not
be in the student's major. Focusing on a single problem forces students and professors alike to examine the situation from
a number of different viewpoints. In undertaking the two-year curriculum study, Hollins was guided by the basic philosophy that students
should undertake as much individual responsibility for their own education as soon as possible. Hence the flexibility in required courses,
for freshmen as well as upperclassmen.

A number of similarities exist between Hollins and Davidson: Both are small Southern liberal arts colleges, with a generally recognized
stature in academic fields. Though differences in situation may make specific application of Hollins’ innovations impractical here, most important is
for the college to share the verve, enthusiasm, and daring needed for significant, far-reaching improvements to be made.

SYNTHESIZING IDEAS OF THE TIMES

PRAM Reveals Power Of Student Action

Quo Vadis? Latins judge "gringos" by Hollywood films, flashy embassy limousines. Fred's idea was to show to each of the
Americas the true nature of her sister continent—and do it through a United States. If the U.S. does not wake
up, it will completely lose the goodwill of Latin America. In his speech, he tried to drive home the actual
power students can wield toward reform. Opportunity and need for reform exist; it is for the student to decide whether
to seek reform responsibly, irresponsibly, or not at all.

This article is written with a two-fold purpose. In the first place, it is a commentary on the role of
the student, both his actual and his possible role, within society. Secondly, it is an explanation of the ideas and
ideals motivating Fred Enlurs, the founder of the Project of the Americas.

First, the role of the student. I believe the fact is indisputable that the student class within a nation represents
by far the greatest percentage of the nation's intelligentsia. (The term “intelligentsia” is used here to designate all those who
are participating in some facet of the educational process.) The students within a society are therefore almost by definition a
force tending toward change. They are the ones who have the opportunity to scrutinize the present age with the most
critical eye; generally, they are divorced from the confines of an everyday routine and hence represent a unique perspective.

REVOLUTIONARY

While the student is generally a revolutionary, however, he also exemplifies two side effects of that malady. First, he is
an idealist; second, he is impressionable. As a result, his judgment may not always be perfect; yet I would suggest
that this fact is not an evil per se, for a country stands to gain more by forcing itself to
react whenever a student group acts.

Up until the last paragraph, we have been looking at the student’s possible, or historical, role within society. Then we
discussed some general aspects of actual student activity within the U.S. Now let's view briefly the actual role of the
student outside this country; students in other areas of the world play a much more active part in the day-to-day
affairs of their nations than American students do. Recently in Sweden, students organized and operated all their classes for a
period of several weeks when Sweden’s 20,000 teachers went on strike.

ACTIVE PART

Thus we find students playing a far more active role outside of the U.S. In Latin America, the student’s prerogative
to act for change receives perhaps the greatest recognition by society at large. Most Latin University campuses are officially sanctioned
as the domain solely of the student; police are forbidden to trespass on this domain. Perhaps it is as a
result of this fundamental freedom to act that the Latin American student is in general a more mature and concerned
individual than his American counterpart. An example of such a student is Fred.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

Entors, an Ecuadorian who came to Davidson College as a Richardson Scholar in 1964. Appalled by the total lack of
understanding that exists between the U.S. and Latin America, Fred determined to act. The U.S. views Latins as basically lazy,
irresponsible.

Campus Moral Code Lacks Consistency

The more we accommodate ourselves to plain things, and the less we indulge in those artificial delights which gratify pride
and luxury, the nearer we approach to a state of innocency.
Matthew Henry (1662-1714)

THE TIME HAS COME for the college to do some blue sky thinking in conference to the moral stature of
its students, an area that has heretofore been largely passed over in favor of the transitory benefits reaped from the
intellectual sphere. For who would deny an individual's moral turpitude is one significant, indeed, possibly even more so, than are
the intellectual qualities? For the intellect needs control, while moral fiber will enable a man to live a truly full
life, which is indeed the purpose of a liberal education.

Some steps have already been taken in the direction suggested by the 17th Century sage quoted above. The nucleus consequence
of his quote is that the college restricts its students from indulging in any sort of luxury, consequently enabling the
student to approach a state of "innocency."

REGULATIONS ALREADY in effect are far from being restrictive enough, nor do they touch enough students. At present, the sole
restriction is that students receiving scholarships may not maintain cars on the campus, in town, or in the area. Such
a restriction is reasonable, it is said, for the automobile is a luxury and not a necessity (a conclusion itself
open to question). But if it is reasonable that scholarship students be denied luxuries, on the basis that their and
their parents' meager resources do not allow them, why deny them more? While hundreds of scholarship students are living beyond
their means, indulging in goods and pursuits that could not by any stretch of the imagination be classified as necessities.

TAKE, FOR EXAMPLE, the item of clothes. No one denies the functional aspect of clothes, but certain students go far
beyond the consideration of utility and purchase clothing on such irrelevant bases as how it looks and what quality it
is. To eliminate such discrepancies, restrictions should be imposed that, while acknowledging the necessity of a minimum level of clothing
owned, should prevent anyone from wastefully indulging their money on luxurious clothes. Obviously, the first step would be a limit
on the quantity of clothes possessed. Enough shirts to get through the week and several pairs of khakis would be
permissible.

student media, After much discussion then, the Project of the Americas was formed with the specific task "to create a
new American conscience." During its two-year existence PRAM has done amazing things: tens of thousands of dollars have been raised
in its support; more than 30 students have participated in PRAM's exchange programs; PRAM chapters continue to grow on Latin
and U.S. campuses.

THREE THINGS

What has made PRAM a success? Perhaps three things: PRAM continues to be student conceived, organized, and operated; PRAM insists
on complete non-affiliation with any government or other group; PRAM believes in the importance of personal dialogue and opinion. This
last is an important factor. When Latin students observe a debate over Santo Domingo where some PRAM volunteers support U.S.
intervention and others oppose it, they realize the true nature of the U.S. student. They gain in understanding. Such is
the underlying philosophy of PRAM, viewed within the context of the basic student situation. About six weeks ago Fred Ehlers
returned to the U.S., again under the auspices of the Richardson Foundation, in order to help raise funds for the
organization he founded.

CHAPEL SPEECH

On one day he gave a speech during chapel, a speech wherein, in true PRAM fashion, he outlined his personal
opinions about the potential power of students of the Americas toward solving the vast problems confronting this hemisphere. Fred stated
that if the

The Gospel According To John
By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

'CHRIST CLIMBED DOWN' by Lawrence Ferlinghetti

Christ climbed down from His bare Tree this year and ran away to where there were no rootless Christmas trees
hung with candy canes and breakable stars
Christ climbed down from His bare Tree this year and ran away to where there were no gilded Christmas trees
and no tinsel Christmas trees and no pink plastic Christmas trees and no gold Christmas trees and no black Christmas
trees and no powder blue Christmas trees hung with electric candles and encircled by electric trains and clever cornball relatives
Christ climbed down from His bare Tree this year and ran away to where no intrepid Bible salesmen covered the
territory in two-tone Cadillacs and where no Sears Roebuck creches complete with plastic babe in manger arrived by parcel post
the babe by special delivery and where no televised Wise Men praised the Lord Calvert Whiskey
Christ climbed down from His bare Tree this year and ran away to where no fat handshaking stranger in a
red flannel suit and a fake white beard went around passing himself off as some sort of North Pole saint

And Davidson, having its Christian orientation, would be obligated to allow each student to maintain one set of clothes suitable
for church attendance.

NOT ONLY SHOULD LIMITS be imposed on the quantity of clothing; certain standards as to quality should be imposed. Say
goodbye to the Gant shirts and Corbin slacks from Rush Wilson and Tate Brown; say hello to Belk's shirts and
work pants that meet the utility test as well as the other. The luxury-necessity principle would also enter an individual’s
social life. We know that companionship with the opposite sex is a necessary part of growing up, but females must
be found within a distance that won't limit the student's spending an excessive amount of money.

OBVIOUSLY, the Davidson Gentleman's contact with the opposite sex would be limited to those found at such nearby institutions as
Queens, Cabarrus County Hospital, and the Mooresville What-a-Burger. An unsavory thought, admittedly, but palatable at least when one considers that
trips to Converse and Sweet Briar are a luxury no sane boy can afford. For additional items such as clothes
and dating, where the difference between necessity and luxury is one of degree, scholarship students would be required to register
their activities with the Office of the Dean of Students, where decisions would be made as to where to draw
the line.

Other areas are not so ambiguous — the black-and-white line can be drawn in activities such as choosing of classes.
Scholarship students would naturally be prevented from taking the Humanities course, for by going through the regular English-History Bible cycle,
they can save as much as half the cost of the books.

LIKEWISE, FRATERNITIES would be off-limits, for the monthly dues go to no activities that can be justified as necessary for
a student's education. Even the scholarship holder's family is not exempt, for it is on the family's situation that the
judgment of need is made. This would result in such measures as families being forbidden to have automobiles unless necessary
for their jobs; for the American transportation industry is developed to such a high degree that automobiles can no longer
be justified as necessary, even for a family.

When such a program is carried out for the scholarship holders, and the administration sees that, indeed, the bad boys
are approaching undreamed of levels of innocence, perhaps arrangements will be made to extend such provisions to the student body
as a whole, and virtue will reign unchecked on the Davidson campus.

crossing the desert to Bethlehem Pennsylvania in a Volkswagen sled drawn by rollicking Adirondack reindeer with German names and bearing
sacks of Humble Gifts from Saks Fifth Avenue
Christ climbed down from His bare Tree this year and ran away to where no Bing Crosby carolers groaned of
a White Christmas and where no Radio City angels ice-skated wingless through a winter wonderland into a jingle bell heaven
daily at 8:30 with Midnight Mass matinees
Christ climbed down from His bare Tree this year and safely stole away into some anonymous Mary's womb again where
in the darkest night of everybody's anonymous soul He awaits again an unimaginable and impossibly Immaculate Reconception the very craziest
of Second Comings
