TROTTER ATTACKS NSA CAMPAIGN (See Page Two)

VOL. LV

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1966

(Staff Photo by Thel)

SPOILS OF VICTORY LIE IN CORNER OF WILDCAT DRESSING ROOM
Net-Adorned Trophy Almost Forgotten As Campus Looks Ahead

Ticket Controversy Remains Unsolved
By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor

College President D. Grier Martin remained unwilling to comment this week on the current basketball ticket controversy, in which Athletic Director Tom Scott has designated the President and administration as the authorities enabling the ticket office to charge students for admission to Coliseum basketball games.

Despite Scott's assertion to THE DAVIDSONIAN two weeks ago that the President approved in November his proposal to charge students for games in February, a policy not made public until February, and that the only source of authority in ticket arrangements is the administration, not the Faculty Athletic Committee, Martin declined to support or refute the ticket policy, choosing only to issue a statement through his office that “he is certainly aware of the situation and is hoping to do something about it this spring."

Dr. Paul Marrotte, chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, stated to THE DAVIDSONIAN previously that although the faculty committee cannot set ticket prices, the committee over the past three years “has approved the schedule and the number of games at the Coliseum in return for the granting of good seating and free admission to students while school is in session.”

The jurisdiction dispute should be partially clarified at the faculty meeting Tuesday, when a Trustee report, entitled “An Analysis And Clarification Of The Duties And Responsibilities Of Various Agencies Of Davidson College For The Physical Education Of The Student,” will be presented to the faculty.

The report assigns to the college president and the Trustees ultimate responsibility for athletics, designates the role of the Athletic Council as advisory, and lists as the responsibilities of the Faculty Athletic Committee the following:
“a. They shall ascertain and approve the eligibility of students engaged in intercollegiate athletics.
b. They are to work with the Director of Athletics and approve the schedule for intercollegiate contests.
c. They shall serve in a liaison capacity between the Athletic Department and the faculty.”

This clarification was requested by the faculty committee two years ago and drafted by the Trustees last spring.

Dr. Marrotte this week expressed confidence that the ticket matter will be settled in meetings this spring, “with an equitable solution for all parties concerned.”

The dispute on location of seats for students is no longer an issue, as Scott has indicated his willingness to THE DAVIDSONIAN that students’ Coliseum seats next year be located in center sections of the circle and mezzanine, with no seats in the balcony, the end zones or the poorly located sections D, E, K and L, which are the corner sections of the Coliseum.

NUMBER TWENTY

Victory Steals Onto Campus
By ARCH McCALLUM
Davidsonian Asst. Sports Editor

It had happened. It had really happened. The long overdue Wildcats had finally won the Southern Conference Tournament. A triumphant Lefty Driesell and his charges had cut the nets from their fastenings. Jubilant Davidsonians and proud Charlotteans pushed their ways onto the playing surface. People had shouted and clapped and cheered. When it was over, some just sat back and relaxed with satisfied grins on their faces.

Lefty even lit up a long, green stogie.

On Saturday, Feb. 26, 1966, at 10:15 p.m., the Charlotte Coliseum was pure bedlam; it was a madhouse of not-quite-sure-it-was-really-true Wildcat lovers.

As for the village, the home of the new champs, remarkably little was changed. There was no celebration Saturday night or Sunday or any other time. There was no honking of horns, no toilet paper-festooned trees and no noise in the dormitories. It was a typically dead Davidson weekend.

Several Charlotte newsmen came to town Sunday, apparently expecting to find the place half-burned down from the celebration. They found nothing. Not even the fourth floor of East Dormitory had gone to the trouble to put out so much as a sign of congratulation.

Pictures, Stories (See Pages Four and Five)

For two years the community—college folk and townspeople alike—had prepared for this moment. For two years banners had been hoisted across Main Street and in shop windows. Enthusiasm had been unquenchable and a confident expectancy had pervaded the atmosphere. For two years the banners and enthusiasm and expectancy had melted into the dreariness of cold Friday nights.

Mrs. Belle Banks, news editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette, explained why the town had apparently been oblivious to the coming tournament. “Word got out that Lefty didn’t want any of the fanfare as in other years,” Mrs. Banks said. “That's why there wasn’t any banner across the street or any signs in the windows. He didn't want anything that would associate this year with the two prior ones.”

Meanwhile, the campus was gloating quietly about the victory. The same calmness that had followed last year's defeat was everywhere apparent, despite the exciting finish of the sophomore-dominated squad. There was much more interest in the future than in the Cats’ recent accomplishments. Such faraway and unheard of teams as Rhode Island and Connecticut assumed paramount importance.

Immediate plans were made for the long trip to Philadelphia to see the team perform in the first round of the NCAA Eastern Regionals. Bill Bondurant, Director of Alumni Affairs, announced plans to charter buses, one leaving Sunday and one on Monday, for the Monday night game in Philadelphia.

“We've received around 25 inquiries from alumni about the buses. We also hope to take the pep band and as many students as want to go. Alumni response to the sale of tickets has been outstanding. They've sold about 400. Most of the alumni are going by plane or train.”

As the time draws nearer the pitch is becoming feverish. Asked about student feeling toward the tournaments, Pete Glidewell commented, “I'm excited. This is a new experience for this place; people really don't know how to feel.”

It’s 15 days until the night in College Park, Md., where the national champion will be chosen. Who knows? Maybe there’s a chance yet for some bonfires and horn-honking and toilet paper-festooned trees.

Petition Compels NSA Referendum

MARION'S Faculty May Eliminate Spring Frolics Classes

The faculty Academic Scheduling Committee recommended this week that Saturday classesDuring Spring Frolics weekend next month be eliminated. Paul Marion, student representative to the committee, made the proposal to the group after noticing that this semester had one extra day of classes scheduled. Marion received the endorsement of the Student Council Wednesday after mentioning the idea to them. “The committee was very receptive to the idea,” Marion stated after the meeting yesterday. The committee’s suggestion will go to the faculty for approval next week at its March meeting. Dr. John C. Bailey Jr., a member of the committee, pointed out that the recommended change was not setting a precedent for the years ahead. “We approved the change this year only because of the extra day of classes which appeared in the schedule for this semester,” he stated.

The committee also discussed money will be spent second semester than during the first, according to Foster. The block booking technique is one method which Foster hopes will bring some bigger features to the campus. The block booking technique works by having at least two schools in the general area book the same groups for consecutive appearances. This enables each school to have the act at a lower price than for a single, isolated appearance. Foster emphasized that he wants “entertainment more representative of student body tastes.” This is to be the primary goal of the Social Council. This April, before Spring Frolics, a student body poll will be conducted to determine the entertainment most desired for Homecoming next year.

RESERVATIONS EXPRESSED
Officials Support Social Life Changes

Faculty’s action to the trustees; state and national government and assistant dean of students. “They were passed in an effort to alleviate certain problems which exist in the whole area of fraternity affairs.” Dr. W. G. McGavock, who last year chaired the Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life Committee of the faculty, pointed to the provision for second semester as a big improvement. He also noted that there is little or no faculty opposition to freshmen eating at the College Union for the entire year. This proposal was originally made some years ago by President Emeritus John R. Cunningham. All three mentioned the air of experimentation that surrounds the approval of the recent proposals. “It is a difficult thing to be sure how far to go in changing what has been better than similar systems in other institutions,” Martin explained. “I think there has been a considerable amount of surprise that Davidson is making changes in a system that has apparently worked well.” “I feel that this is another step in a process of experimentation that we hope is going to lead to the best possible system,” McGavock summarized. He pointed out that the changes made last year have answered certain questions concerning such areas as the academic involvement of freshmen during the first semester. He said he is confident that the changes made this year will no doubt answer more questions about the situation. “We've simply got to experiment and see whether we are right or wrong,” McGavock concluded. Covington echoed these sentiments when he said, “If we find in the future that these are not the best solutions to the problem, I hope the faculty will be as willing to consider alternate approaches.”

When asked about the possibility of trustee intervention into the faculty action, Martin said that he would have to report the possibility of eliminating all Saturday classes, scheduling spring holidays to include Easter, and holding first semester examinations before Christmas holidays. The whole idea of the academic schedule is being studied by the Curriculum Committee, according to Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston.

JOE BEARD
YAF Chairman Attacks NSA
By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Last night the Student Union was the scene of a much livelier than usual Open End discussion. The speaker was Tom Huston, national chairman of the Young Americans for Freedom, law student at the University of Indiana and author of the pamphlet “The NSA Myth,” recently circulated on the Davidson campus. Huston appeared on behalf of the National Stop NSA Committee, a group set up to promote the abolishment of the National Student Association on member campuses. Schools in this area which Huston claims to have persuaded to withdraw from NSA include Duke, UNC-G, and Pfeiffer College. Huston gives as his reason for advocating the abolishment of NSA on American campuses the fact that NSA does not have the right to represent the student community for which it claims it speaks, and that, furthermore, it does not represent this community faithfully. It cannot represent the student political concerns, says Huston, because “there is no such thing as student political consensus. NSA operates on an enormous assumption that it represents the consensus of opinion of American students.” According to Huston, the NSA was set up to provide student leadership for its member colleges, but it has turned out that “student leadership in this country has been totally ignored by the NSA.” Most of the proposals brought up in NSA conventions have a purely political basis, voted on by student representatives who are poorly informed, for the most part, on the issues under discussion. This is in opposition to the NSA Constitution which states that the NSA will not devote its time to influencing legislators, he said. But in 1964-1965 a full 25 percent of the NSA resolutions called for the NSA “to influence the legislature at the national level.” This, claims Huston, is clearly a clause put in the NSA Constitution as a dodge on paying taxes as a political organization.

“Thus the student at Davidson, and at any other member schools,” Huston suggested, “should ask himself first if he agrees with the positions of the NSA which they claim represent the students of the schools which are members, positions such as abolishing the House Un-American Activities Committee and withdrawing recognition from national fraternities with a discriminatory clause.”

Council Sets No Date

The student body will vote in a referendum next week on whether Davidson should remain a member of the National Student Association. Joe Beard, representing an ad hoc committee opposing continued affiliation with NSA, presented to the Student Council Monday night a petition calling for a referendum. Student Body President Bill Council set no definite date for the vote, but said it would be held next week sometime, probably Tuesday or Wednesday. Dave Lewis, a sophomore and a primary organizer of the “Stop NSA” Committee, stated that the main point of the movement was to save money. Lewis said that “NSA is neither representing nor benefiting the student body.” According to Lewis, dues to the association are $50 yearly, “and its merits are questionable.”

POWELL

At the Council meeting, Dave Powell voiced his opposition to such an early referendum since “the (Stop NSA) Committee would have great momentum, and results of such a referendum might not be a true, or even fair indication of student opinion.” Powell also mentioned that Chuck Matthews, student body vice president currently studying in Washington, was an ardent advocate of NSA and should be consulted before any referendum is held. Council said that Matthews had already been contacted. Beard also reported plans for the Open End discussion, held last night, at which Tom Huston, chairman of the national Stop NSA Committee, spoke.

VESPERS

In other Council proceedings, a statement concerning Vespers alterations was presented by Jim Timmons, chairman of the Student Council Committee on Religious Life. The statement presented two proposals meant to strengthen the Vespers program. The first proposal was to cut the Vespers requirement in half, thereby ensuring capable speakers. Secondly, it was suggested that the number of Vespers and chapel cuts be combined to remove the compulsory nature of church attendance. Timmons reported that he has attempted to contact President D. Grier Martin about the statement. Timmons plans to present the proposals to the Faculty Religious Life Committee at an upcoming meeting.

ELECTIONS

Lee Fanning, chairman of the Student Council Elections Committee, announced that students needing absentee ballots should come by his room.