PAGE THREE

BURIAL OF THE DEAD

He finished his fifth as he downed the last drop of beer and shuffled out of the blinking lights to
watch the midnight train dodge empty cans. It was spring. And the night air against his ankles, the cool breeze
on his forearms, the sting of afternoon sun that lingered on his nose told him dead winter had finally been
buried and new life was being reborn for another one-year eternity. In a minute it would be tomorrow and he
would celebrate its coming by laying his madras-lined mind down to dream.

A year ago he gulped down another last drop and watched another midnight train but it was still the same.
A year ago he was sockless, sleeveless, and sunburned. Next year it would be the same. Yet this year he
might dream of the buried past that was last year’s new life. This year he might look back through tonight’s
empty brown bottles and remember in his slumber what he could not conjecture a year ago. The raspy Saturday-night voice
he had earned at a Davidson football game, a basketball player barbers had brought, a conference crown of gold, not
thorns... Or the bleary-eyed little girl who played his own hollow-laughing game at Homecoming, or the blind date Midwinters that
drowned herself in a flood of fantasies...

Close your eyes, you slick stud, you. Close your eyes and sleep so that you can see tomorrow’s light through
a red spider web, spun in tonight's lights. But the gong has sounded. Not the metal ring of an iron
disk, but a different gong with a different ring. The thunking of tennis balls against catgut rackets, a starter’s pistol...
Though it might not shake your marrow, it still signals an end as well as a beginning. The crack of
leather against ash, this is your gong. This buries me with the past — for next week Behind the Lockers
becomes memory, not conjecture. Another new life will be born on this page and before he is buried, like I,
of a one-year eternity, he will know the meaning.

JIMMY POOLE SOARS
Action In Saturday’s Meet

Wildcat Cindermen Take Wins In Two Meets!

Coach Heath Whittle's track men chalked up two victories this week in three-way meets as they defeated Lenoir Rhyne and
High Point on Saturday and Lenoir Rhyne and Wofford yesterday. Randy Randolph was high point man for the Wildcats on
Saturday as he scored points by earning a first place in the shot put, a second place in the discus,
and a fourth place in the javelin. Bill Kendrick set the pace in the javelin.

SKIP WAITE RAPS ONE
(Staff Photo by Purvis)

Horsehiders Still Lose To Pfeiffer 5-2
EVEN RECORD AT 2-2

Diamondmen Bomb U. Va., Meet Keydets Tomorrow

The Wildcat baseballers face a full slate of spring break games with a 2-2 record after playing a doubleheader with
VMI tomorrow. The ‘Cats chalked up two wins over the University of Virginia, but were treed twice by tough Pfeiffer.

Davidson opened its season with a 4-3 loss to Pfeiffer, March 16. In the return bout Pfeiffer rolled the ‘Cats
to the tune of 4-2. The nine from Misenheimer exploded in the second inning to chalk up two runs on
the scoring charts. They scored again in the third and ninth innings to hand the ’Cats their second loss. Bryant
Hinnant and Skip Waite led the ‘Cat batters with two RBIs.

The battered ‘Cats then tangled with the Cavaliers from U. Va., and registered twice in the winner's column. Seven was
Davidson's lucky number as the ‘Cats ruled their guests 7-2 on Monday and 7-1 the next afternoon. Buddy Durham pitched
for the winners the first game, with Henry Wilmer doing the honors on Tuesday. The ‘Cats committed only two errors
each game against the Cavaliers, against four each tilt against Pfeiffer.

Tomorrow will be the season opener for the Keydets, who will bring a young, inexperienced team. All Southern Conference basketballer
Charlie Schmaus will be back at third base, with former All-Conference ace Dee Hartman manning the right field slot. According
to Coach Fred Kelley, “Our success will depend on the pitching. With only a five-man pitching staff and seven doubleheaders
there will be a real strain.” The Keydets will be missing pitcher Ruben Terry and shortstop Dennis White. Also missing
from the roster will be fireballing righthander Percy Sensaburg, who batted over .300 last year but struck out with the
books.

Saturday the ‘Cats head south for a six-game tour. Davidson opens with Georgia Southern Saturday in Statesboro, Ga. The 'Cat
nine then moves to Deland, Fla., for a doubleheader with Stetson. The Hatters of Stetson boast eleven returning lettermen, which
includes last year's entire infield. On March 30-31 the ‘Cats meet Florida Southern, one of the strongest teams in that
state. Leading the champions of the Florida Intercollegiate Conference will be pitcher Bruce Aitken (0.63 ERA), a Little All-American hurler
from Jacksonville. Anchoring the infield will be All-Conference selections Frank Oletavec at short, Ron Sabatini at third, and Bill Mowbray
at second.

Leading the outfield will be Fred Mayer, who was seventh in the nation in stolen bases last year, and veteran
Eddie League. Davidson will wind up the tour in St. Petersburg April 1, against Florida Presbyterian. The Tritons boast six
returning lettermen, including ace hurler and cleanup batter Maury McDonald. McDonald may see action as a right fielder also. Other
lettermen assured of starting positions are Chris Frost at shortstop, Mike Watson in centerfield, and Mike Culberth in left.

The ‘Cats will resume their home slate April 4 with a doubleheader here against George Washington.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)

DOWN AMHERST, SWARTHMORE
By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This year's edition of the Wildcat tennis team opened on a sound note by downing Amherst, 5-4, and Swarthmore, 9-0.
The Amherst match went down to the wire with Dick Hurd and Geordie Mueller winning the deciding match in their
third set. Another important contribution came from Bill Council and Peter Parrott, who twice fought back from match point to
post an important victory in the number one doubles match.

Coach Harry Fogleman related, “We knew that Amherst had a fine team, but this was the first time we could
play them due to rainouts in the past years. They were much like us--good depth but without the big nationally-ranked
star.” Coach Fogleman added that he hoped to continue the fine relationship between the two schools, “but we also hope
they don’t make it sorough on us.” He singled out Council and Hurd as playing “their usual fine game” and
commended the team, saying that they all did an exceptional job. He said that there “was a question for a
time as to what we would be like because we lost so many boys last year, but we are coming
along nicely.” The final score for the meet was 88 for Davidson, 47 for High Point, and 46 for Lenoir
Rhyne.

Yesterday's contest in Spartanburg was not so easily won as Davidson was tied with Lenoir Rhyne, 55-55, with only two
events remaining. However, one of the events was the 2-mile run, which Andy Little won in the time of 10:26.
Little, the big man for Davidson, had earlier won the mile in 4:41, which kept Steve Gill and Fagg in
contention. Injuries to John Hustle and Esmond Phelps, who “had his usual trouble in hitting the ball too hard,” were
partly to blame for the closer score. Davidson ended up with 68, Lenoir Rhyne with 55, and Wofford with 47.

Woody Faulk was very impressive in his first varsity match, and Parrott “played a good doubles match with the clutch
points when we needed them.” Woody Cleveland was somewhat off his game due to an injury and a slight cold.
The ‘Cats were unbeatable in their shellacking of Swarthmore. Swarthmore tennis coach Ed Faulkner, who coached the American Davis Cup
team in 1964 and has helped present national stars Ashe and Pasarell, commented on Davidson tennis, “I was very much
impressed with Davidson's caliber of tennis and with the facilities here.” Coach Faulkner added that the quality of the Davidson
tennis program was “way above” their conference and that he observed it with admiration.

Davidson's golf team will play in the largest golf tournament ever entered by a Wildcat team. The Davidson sailors crushed
South Carolina on Saturday in their first inter-collegiate competition of the spring, taking the first three races of a best-of-five
series. Skippers Tom Kirtley, Ben Reeves, and Chip Robertson started the match for Davidson with Yates Fletcher, Bob Murphy, and
Chip Bellamy crewing for each of them respectively. Joe Gardner took the helm for the final two races with Reeves
replacing Murphy as crew. The victory was a team effort, and despite the fact that the ‘Cats finished 1-2-3 in
each race, the points were divided almost evenly between the three Davidson boats. Kirtley, Robertson, and Gardner each piloted his
Jet 14 to a win. The USC entry was piloted by Gordon Small, Robert Tindal, and Andy Card. Small, a
high finisher last fall, was held to fourth place. The win followed a triumph the previous week over the Lake
Norman Yacht Club. The ‘Cats place their undefeated record on the line at The Citadel Spring Invitational Regatta Saturday at
Charleston.

Davidson's golf team will go to Cape Coral, Florida, for the Invitational Golf Tournament, March 31-April 2. The tourney will
feature teams from eighteen colleges and nine states. Among the schools participating will be Florida, Florida State, Miami, Duke, Wake
Forest, Columbia University, Princeton, Louisiana State, and Purdue. Carrying Davidson's chances to the links will be Joe Jelks, Doug McKeever,
George Brewer, John Giles, Walter Daniel, and George Leight. The seven-man squad will be facing a tough endurance test as
they will play 18 holes on the first day, 36 holes on the second, and 18 on the final day.
The team’s coach, Dr. Tom Scott, commented on the coming tournament, “This will be the toughest match Davidson has ever
had. The boys have been playing well in defeating George Washington, Furman, The Citadel, N.C. State, and barely losing to
UNC. We hope to make a good showing for Davidson at Cape Coral.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine — OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

“Coke” and “Coca-Cola” are registered trademarks.

Fuzzballers Net Two
The team played East Stroudsburg State today and will play Kalamazoo tomorrow in preparation for their annual spring trip to
Florida. Eight boys, Cleveland, Council, Faulk, Pinky Hatcher, Hurd, Parrott, Phelps, and either Mueller or David Jennings, will make the
trip. Jacksonville provides the ‘Cats’ first opposition. Coach Fogleman calls them “a real fine team” and with good reason. Their
number one man is a former nationally-ranked junior, and the number five man is one of the best players in
the St. Petersburg area. Rollins has had strong teams in the past, but Coach Fogleman relates that “they are much
stronger this year.” The two matches with Rollins are perhaps the big ones of the trip. Likewise, Columbia has a
much better team than in years past. The ‘Cats close their spring trip on April 2 against Hope, a Presbyterian
school in Michigan, whose team was weak last year. “We'll get a chance to see them play beforehand, anyway,” Coach
Fogleman reported.

Upon finishing their Florida trip, the ‘Cats get a brief rest before playing Harvard on April 7. “The Amherst coach
told me,” said Coach Fogleman, “Harvard has the best team this year that they've had. They have so many to
choose from that they carry two squads. The number one team will be coming here.” Coach Fogleman summed up the
coming trip with his “philosophy” on it: “I think this trip will do us a lot of good with all
the competition there. We're looking forward to the competition, and I know that by the time we return, we will
have jelled into a fine tennis team.”

(Staff Photo by Olson)
COUNCIL RETURNS AGAINST AMHERST

La Roma — CHOICE
Rendezvous in Charlotte at
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Ristoranti
STEAKS —

Cramming Clowning Pubbing
Mr. Wrangler taste you never get tired of... always refreshing. That's why things go better with Coke... after Coke... after
Coke. Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by the COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD, Concord, N.C.

PERMANENT PRESS
Shirts and Slacks of FORTREL® and cotton
From dawn to discotheque they’re really with it... Permanently pressed 50% Fortrel polyester and 50% cotton make Mr. Wrangler your
best buddy from early classes to just-one-more-frug at midnight... and they’re guaranteed for one year’s normal wear. They stay like
new forever. In a full range of colors and styles. SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE FOR FAMOUS MR. WRANGLER SHIRTS &
SLACKS or write Mr. Wrangler, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10001
