PAGE FOUR b THE DAVIDSONIAN

By CLIFF DUKE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson, its drive for national prominence ambushed by successive losses in the enemy camps of Wake Forest and West Virginia, now faces two stern tests of its championship mettle. Within the next five days, the Wildcats will meet challenges hurled at them by eastern powers NYU and St. Joseph's, and within these days Davidson's true strength will be exposed.

’Cats To Meet

Stan McKenzie, though, has been the real workhorse—tallying 22.5 points while picking off 12.8 rebounds per contest. Bruce Kaplan and Richard Dyer are also averaging in double figures while a pair of sophs—Charlie Silen and Gary Witrock—share the pivot position. Although the Violets’ report card shows failures in seven games, three were decided by a total of six points. They defeated West Virginia 104-91.

Wednesday the Hawk flies in. That would be St. Joseph's, the highest-ranked team to oppose the ’Cats this year. Starters on this wrecking crew are all too familiar to Davidson—last year’s ’cats left the Palestra shorn of their lofty rating by virtue of a 77-64 licking.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966

Everyone is back from that team, and this year they have blasted their way to a 15-4 record, paced by a relentless pressure defense. They are led by Matt Guokas, a 6-5 playmaker with tremendous talent, and Cliff Anderson, a 6-4 center who consistently outrebounds taller foes. Other starters have been Tom Duff, Billy Oakes, and either Marty Ford or Chuck McKenna. St. Joe was considered the best team in the land before consecutive road losses to Brigham Young and Wyoming. Nevertheless, the eighth-ranked Hawks will provide the sternest test the Wildcats have faced.

Bigtime Competition In Visits By NYU And St. Joseph's

This will be true because both teams possess fine individuals, good records, and the poise to cope with the “friendly” atmosphere of Charlotte Coliseum—battleground for the critical testing period.

Thus, these five days will measure Davidson's contention for Southern Conference laurels and national honors.

NYU launches the first wave of the invasion tomorrow night. The Violets, coached to post-season tournament berths in six of the last seven years by Lou Rossini, will seek a reversal of last year’s game in Madison Square Garden. In that contest, Fred Hetzel and Co. posted a hard-fought nine-point win. This metropolitan university owns a considerable basketball heritage, being enriched currently by a band of small but quick scrappers. The four returnees from last year all sport flashy double-figure credentials, led by Mal Graham's 25.9 average.

Local Cagers Get Lethargic Wins Over Soldierboys And Arachnids

By BILL RICHMOND
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Under the leadership of good job. It was a good game.” On Tuesday night, before a sellout crowd at Johnston Gym, the ’Cats put on a poor showing against a quick University of Richmond team, although the result was the same. Looking

Even Snyder, whom his teammates call Daddycat, proved to be a poor father, scoring 24 points and fouling out with two minutes left in the game. Both Knowles and Youngdale had preceded him, and it was only

The Spider's Tom Green had 27 for the scoring honors in spite of the fact that Snyder was guarding him. Guards John Moates and Spike Welsh contributed greatly to the cause. Moates scored 14, and Welsh, 13.

Freshmen Roundballers Beat Duke, Scare Carolina In Hectic Week

By YATES FAISON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Putting forth their greatest effort of the season, the Wildkittens came close to pulling off back-to-back upset victories. Brilliant team play beat Duke’s Imps Saturday, 87-84, and threatened to catch undefeated UNC, before bowing, 80-76.

“The boys did a real great job,” commented Coach Terry Holland. “In the Duke game, we played well in the clutch down to the wire. We made the free throws and got the ball when we needed it. We got the second shots and hit the boards well. It was a team effort.”

“Against UNC, we played a good game despite a few costly mistakes. We did well rebounding despite their tremendous height advantage. Our defense did an excellent job. Although they got 80 points, most came from foul shots at the end. Our scoring attack was again balanced.”

Holland pointed out that no single player was responsible for the great team spirit and that spirit had been high throughout practice. He praised individually all the boys who played in the two games.

“Rocky Crosswhite did a great job defensively on Steve Vandenburg and Rusty Clark. Dave Moser contributed a steady floor game. Wayne Huckel helped in the scoring and on defense. Mike Spann worked inside, drawing a lot of fouls. Mike O'Neill did a good job on the boards and in scoring. Mike Dickens did a good job when Crosswhite got into foul trouble.”

O'Neill paced the Wildkittens over Duke with25 points and contributed 16 against Carolina. Wayne Huckel pumped in 22 versus Duke and 18 in the UNC game. Spann and Moser each had 16 against UNC, Spann adding 19 against Duke. Clemson provides the next opposition, followed by Charlie Scott and his Laurinburg teammates on Saturday and Tuesday, respectively, at the Coliseum. Although not too much is known about the Tigers, Coach Holland calls them “a pretty good club, having given South Carolina a good game. They'll have a lot of scholarship boys and another Mahaffey.”

The Laurinburg game provides a perfect natural—Charlie Scott performing against his future teammates. The one thing that people do not realize about this team is that Scott is not their only threat. Paul Rencher averages close to 30 points per game. And if that’s not enough, all the other starters are in double figures.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
WAYNE HUCKEL READIES FOR DRIVE
In Tuesday's Kitten-Tar Baby Contest

THREE-YEAR LETTERMAN

Porter, losing streak, the longest since 1962, by beating a quick, hustling VMI quintet, 97-84, Saturday. The game was close until the last few minutes, but the ‘Cats, having a day to lick their West Virginia wounds, played a loose, relaxed style of ball. Davidson led by only five at the half, but midway in the second period Dick Snyder hit six points in 95 seconds to break open the game. After that, the game was never really in doubt, although the Keydets managed to pull within three before the gun sounded.

Although Snyder hit 14 of 22 from the floor and had a total of 33 points for the night, it was his teammates that carried much of the load, something that did not happen in the West Virginia game. Rod Knowles, Tom Youngdale, and Bobby Lane all scored in double figures, with Knowles and Lane scoring 19 while Youngdale added 16. Not to be forgotten were Phil Squier and Pinky Hatcher. Both controlled the ball well, and both played excellent defense. Hatcher did a particularly good job as he came from the bench to replace Squier, who sustained a bruised shoulder in the rough action under the boards.

The Keydets’ Charlie Schmaus, who scored 31 points for second honors, with the aid of guards Jack Kemper and Robin, 18 and 23 points respectively, kept the game “interesting.” After the game, Coach Lefty Driesell, visibly relieved, said, “I thought that everyone did a glumly at the final score, 80-74.” Driesell said this of the game, “We won it, that’s the main thing. But we didn’t look too pretty doing it.”

It was through the second-half effort of Squier that the evening was saved. Squier accumulated 18 points with most of them coming in the second stanza. The ‘Cats are now 15-4 for the season and are 10-1 in the family, while Richmond is 8-10 overall and 6-7 in the conference.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
A LANE LAYUP (ALSO BLURS PHOTO)
‘Cats Win 15th, 80-74

Meet Me At

Stone Gives Wildcats

THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT

According to Coach Lefty Driesell, “If we wrap up this season on a winning note, a lot of credit will have to go to Ronnie Stone.” Although not a starter, the 6-3 senior from Kernersville has lettered every year so far in his varsity career. As a sophomore, he alternated at the guard spot on Davidson's nationally-ranked team, scoring 73 points and snagging 33 rebounds. Last season, Stone accounted for 71 points and 41 rebounds.

“Ronnie has been one of our top reserves for the past three years,” remarked Driesell. “He is a dependable ball handler with good height, speed, and a good shooting eye. And he’s tough on the boards. We can always count on him for a good performance whenever we need him.”

Headquarters For Pizza and Italian Spaghetti
Mooresville, N. C.

MOOR LANES

Lefty has needed the talents of Ronnie Stone several times this year. When a leg injury grounded Bobby Lane for four games, Stone filled the gap. He led the team in rebounding against Dartmouth and Ohio with eleven grabs each game. Commented Driesell, “Stone was instrumental in defeating VMI.” Against the Keydets, Stone popped in 15 points and did well on defense. He brought the ‘Cats from behind in the second half with a turnaround jump shot and a layup, and helped put the game on ice with a 12-point explosion in the second half.

Ronnie Stone learned his basketball at Kernersville High School near Winston-Salem. He lettered in all three major sports, but his favorite was basketball. Stone lettered on his high school cage team for three years, averaging 20 points a game as a senior. “Academic standards attracted me to Davidson,” explained Stone. “I was especially interested in the excellent pre-med program.” After graduation, Stone plans to study dentistry at Chapel Hill.

PRO SHOP SNACK BAR JUKE BOX
Open 7 Days A Week
Dial 664-1653

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
MIKE O'NEILL MAKES A FAKE

Kittens Nearly Upset Carolina's Giant Freshmen

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
RONNIE STONE FIRES FREE THROW
‘Cats’ Ace In The Hole