PAGE FOUR

APA To Sponsor Visit By Guttman

Dr. Norman Guttman, professor of psychology and director of graduate studies in psychology at Duke University, will speak on campus
April 20-21 as an American Psychology Association Visiting Scientist, according to Dr. W. G. Workman. Each year the APA sponsors
specialists to visit schools with fewer than six psychology professors.

On Wednesday night, April 20, Guttman will give his main lecture, "Human Behavior as Interpreted by Learning Theory," beginning at
8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union. Guttman's two-day stay on campus will include a series of addresses
and informal discussions, including visits to some psychology classes and a meeting Thursday afternoon with all interested psychology students. At
this meeting, Guttman will provide information about graduate studies in psychology. With the proposed expansion of the laboratory facilities, Workman
commented that Guttman "will go over our present lab space to examine it and help us to see our needs
for the future."

— By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

"This is Radio Davidson, 50,000 microwatt voice of the Piedmont, now resuming broadcasting activities for the day. Radio Davidson, AM
and FM, comes to you at unassigned clear channel frequencies of 875 kilocycles and 93.8 megacycles respectively, with a power
of 30,000 microwatts AM and 50,000 microwatts FM."

Radio Davidson? Everyone has heard about it unless he lives more than 100 or so feet away from the middle
of Belk Dormitory. That's where the mighty transmitters are located. It's also where Radio Davidson's owner, nurse, engineer, and number
one fan, sophomore Steve Coover, lives. Asked about the broadcasting range of his tiny transmitter, Coover bragged, "It'll go over
to Chambers through the air. That's FM. We mostly broadcast FM because the AM doesn’t go as well through layers
of concrete and plaster."

Not content with ordinary broadcasting, Coover and his cohorts, mostly Mason Stephenson, have taken to stereo programming. "We can transmit
by running two channels and transmitters, one on FM and one on AM. We get quite good reception. It’s planning
on using two FM signals since AM transmission is so poor. They will make it much better."

Coover takes credit only for the mechanical aspect of the operation. "Mason is my announcer," he insists. "I guess you'd
consider me to be just an engineer." When questioned about the programming angle, Stephenson said, "We've had some good programs.
Bill Andrews preached a darn good sermon. During exams several people came on some guy's on the hall, broadcasting some
stuff to them."

One might wonder how such an unregistered transmitter has avoided the long arm of the Federal Communications Commission. Coover is
quick with his assurance that there is no danger, however. "These are quite legal," he said, "FCC approved equipment."

"So remember folks, tune in sometime. That's 875 kilocycles AM and 93.8 megacycles FM on your radio dial."

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The scholarship program for vocational training among underprivileged families in Charlotte was selected to receive the YMCA Gift Fund this
year. The student body voted Monday after chapel to donate the annual gift to this cause. During chapel period, students
heard proponents of three potential recipients of the money. Cesar Andrade, Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, spoke first for PRAM, which
received the fund last year. Andrade opened by producing a shrunken head, straight from the Amazon jungle. "For millions and
millions of people in the United States, this is the image of the Latin American people. You may have it
yourself. It might be that you have the right image. If not, PRAM will help you to correct it. PRAM
gives the opportunity for personal contact between students of the Americas."

The next speaker, Davidson junior Kent Autrey, was an advocate for the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn.

Producer, Film To Come Here

Film Friends will present an underground movie, The Brig, on Wednesday in Hodson Hall at 8 p.m. Jonas Mikas, the
author, director, and producer of this film, will introduce his film. Afterwards, he will answer any questions about this film.
Prior to the evening showing of The Brig, Mikas will informally discuss films in general at 3 p.m. in the
College Union.

Mikas is also a practicing journalist. He is the founder of Film Culture, a magazine which he now edits. In
addition, Mikas writes a weekly column in the Village Voice in which he discusses films of special and more general
interest. Mikas has made several trips to speak at colleges and universities, but this is his first trip south. The
Brig is about sadism in a prison camp, and like most underground films, it is characterized by a freedom of
expression. Mikas, who came to America in 1949 from Lithuania, specializes in underground films.and did imitations of some professors. We've
played tricks because the signal has to go to Lyn, N.Y., where several Davidson students have worked in the past.
After giving a brief history of the church since the turn of the century, Autrey told how the neighborhood had
become a “ghetto of crime, prostitution, narcotics and in general lack of personal initiative and pride.” The congregation “realized that
they would have to begin to reach out to these people.” He finally pointed out the need for money to
keep the church’s various projects going, particularly those designed for children.

The last speaker was Walt MacDonald, a 1964 Davidson graduate and now a social worker in Charlotte. He began by
emphasizing the only thing that the poor and underprivileged have in common is their economic status. In other respects such
as personality and ambition, the poor cannot be typed. He commented in detail on one case in which he had
been involved. A young Negro mother whose husband had deserted the family was given the opportunity for vocational training which
enabled her to change her whole life and that of her children. MacDonald pointed out that the economic advantages of
such training are enormous. The increased spending and tax payment pay for the cost of education many times over.

Vespers To Feature Emory Choral Group

The Emory Women’s Chorale will be featured in a musical program at Vespers this Sunday night. This group was organized
in 1954 with the threefold purpose of providing a musical outlet for Emory women, furnishing musical entertainment both on and
off the campus, and promoting the university through these activities. From its first formal concert at Emory in 1955, the
Chorale has extended its performances throughout the South and East, completing successful engagements in Washington, D.C., Annapolis, and many of
the major cities of this area.

Dr. William Lemonds, the director of the Chorale, is an outstanding conductor, organist, and lecturer. He has studied at Westminster
Choir College, the Pius X School of Liturgical Music, and the University of Chicago. He founded the Cantata Singers and
conducted the annual festivals of music of Brahms (1957), Bach (1958), and Handel (1959). Because of their long and tedious
rehearsals, they are sure to provide an excellent and diversified program of listening enjoyment, according to Dr. Plott of the
Music Department.

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966

Students Vote To Use Fund for Charlotte Scholarships

In New York City, Mikas runs the Film-Makers’ Cinematheque. Here he attempts to provide an audience for the films of
individual authors and producers who might otherwise never have the opportunity to show their films publicly. This provides an outlet
for film-makers who could not afford to show their movies through the normal channels or who could not hope to
gain the support of a major film-making company because of the avant-garde nature of their films.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub

Have fun during Spring Frolics. You'll always have more fun dressed properly for the occasion. That means in authentic traditional
styling from Tate-Brown’s. After Six formal wear. Hunter Haig, College Hall and Madisonaire clothing. Gant shirts. Corbin slacks. New “Tiger
Tan” Weejuns. Make Tate-Brown’s your home away from home. Free parking at all 3 stores. Use your charge account. Use
our telephone. Cash your checks.

Natural Shoulder Shops

TATE-BROWN'S

CHARLOTTE

THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN—126 S. TRYON STREET

WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER

COTSWOLD

FABULOUS DINING

International Cuisine

OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

We set out to ruin some ball bearings and failed successfully.

TIRES OUR SPECIALTY

W. T. “Bill” Gurley ESSO Service

Main and South Streets

Phone 892-9304

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

The Bell System has many small, automatic telephone offices around the country. The equipment in them could operate unattended for
ten years or so, but for a problem. The many electric motors in those offices needed lubrication at least once
a year. Heat from the motors dried up the bearing oils, thus entailing costly annual maintenance. To stamp out this
problem, many tests were conducted at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Lubricant engineer George H. Kitchen decided to do a basic experiment
that would provide a motor with the worst possible conditions. He deliberately set out to ruin some ball bearings by
smearing them with an icky guck called molybdenum disulfide (MoS₂). Swock! This solid lubricant, used a certain way, actually increased
the life expectancy of the ball bearings by a factor of ten! Now the motors can run for at least
a decade without lubrication.

We've learned from our “failures.” Our aim: investigate everything. The only experiment that can really be said to “fail” is
the one that is never tried.

Bell System

American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies

There’s a 1-in-33 chance you'll have a mentally retarded baby. Here’s how to lower the odds. Write for the free
booklet from the President's Committee on Mental Retardation, Washington, D.C.

Published as a public service in cooperation with The Advertising Council.
