Davidsonian Sports Page Five

Sigs Bombed

October 14, 1966

The Kappa Sigs, the Yankees of flickerball, dropped their first game in five years, and only the second in the history of the sport, as they fell to the ATO’s 33-26, last Fri. The perennial champs had won 45 games in a row stretching back to 1961 prior to the defeat. Sparked by Dave Hardeman and Dave Jennings on offense and a team effort on defense, the Taus outclassed the Sigs from the start. “We were ready for them and we thought we were going to win before the game started,” said Hardeman. “Our mental approach to the game was the deciding factor.” The Taus scored the first three times they had the ball and the Sigs had to play catch up for the entire game. “Our success at the first of the game boosted our morale,” added Hardeman.

TEAM EFFORT

Tau Coach Gorf Birkhead attributed the victory to team effort. “Everyone played a great game. The rush of the defensive line combined with the fine pass coverage by the defensive backfield kept the Sig offense at a standstill for most of the game,” said Birkhead. Hardeman's passing and Jennings' receiving were the highlights of the Tau offense. Jennings caught four touchdown passes and Hardeman was able to post at will. “Our offensive halfbacks, Cecil and Vanes Hughes, played their finest games,” said Hardeman. The Taus gave much credit to the Sigs, "They played like real competitors and they didn’t ever give up. That shows the calibre of team they have," said Birkhead.

ALL NOT LOST

In the Sig camp all was not lost. “We have not given up and we still have hopes of winning the championship. We now are hoping that the Betas will beat the Taus and then we will beat the Betas,” said Sig Joe Jelks. Sig Coach “Hands” Hearon attributed the Sigs' downfall to Hardeman's passing. “He was able to complete the long pass on many occasions and that really hurt us.” Hearon added that on three of the Tau's touchdowns there were lapses in the defensive backfield. “We made too many mistakes and they cost us the game,” said Hearon. The Tau victory over the Sigs focused attention on the upcoming game between the Betas and the Taus. “The season will depend on our game with the Betas,” said Birkhead. “Right now, we are the only undefeated teams, so our game will probably settle the championship.”

In other games this week, Thursday through Wednesday, Sigma Nu took two victories, a 19-6 win over the SAE’s and by forfeit by the Independents, who have yet to flex their flickerball muscles; the Betas moved to the top of the heap with three victories, 32-0 over the busy Nus and forfeits from the Indies and the Pikas. The Phi Delts beat the Gams, 12-7; the Pi Kapps beat the SPE's, 6-0; the Machis blasted the Gams, 40-28; and the SAB's downed the Pi Kapps, 21-12. In fresh action, Cannon II downed Cannon I, 19-14; East I bombed Cannon III, 33-6 and East II, 33-0; Watts, 12-0; East I, defeated Cannon II, and Cannon I tipped East II, 12-7.

BUT DUKE PREVAILS, 40-17

Roger Duttweiler (L) and John Flowers Screen Wesleyan Opponent

HALFBACKS CLEAR BALL

Cats Eye Comeback

Booters Bounce Wesleyan, But Fogleman Not Pleased

Despite being hampered by numerous injuries to key personnel and a glaring lack of practice, the Davidson soccer team booted its way past North Carolina Wesleyan Wednesday afternoon by a 3-1 count. The victory was the second in a row for the Wildcats following an opening game loss to Furman. Sophomores Jim Marrow and Greg Simmons provided the offensive spark for the Davidson hooters, with Marrow scoring twice and Simmons tallying once.

Concerning the overall contest, Coach Harry Fogleman said, “Honestly, I thought we did play poorly against them. Things were not going well at all.” Fogleman blamed injuries and afternoon science labs for hampering the team’s efforts. “With so many boys having labs on every afternoon, not everyone can be there. In fact, only 12 were out the other day, and 22 are necessary for practice. This makes it very rough on teamwork,” he explained. Concerning injuries, Fogleman stated that center-forward Bobby Lanier and beside John Flowers are doubtful starters in the Cats’ next match, and reflected what starting goalie Kem Adeeso, sustained by an infected knee, had yet to dress for a game.

Faculty, Freshmen Face Each Other Next Week

The second annual Freshman-Faculty Games will be held next week, culminating with volleyball and softball games Friday at 4 p.m., intramural director Sterling Martin said today. Competition will be held in handball, golf, and tennis during the week at times convenient to the participants, Martin said. Speaking for the volleyball and softball teams of the faculty, Maj. Harold Fraley said, “Last year, the faculty whipped the frosh in the vicinity of 40-6, which is unheard of in softball circles. In light of the freshman class' scores in the PE test, we anticipate an easier game. Our Dynamic Duo of Max Polley and Dave Kaylor will again be the most dangerous sluggers.” Some of the unsung athletes who will represent the faculty are Professors Anthony Abbott, Marroite, John Kelton, John Hopkins, Norman Johnson, and Dean Richard Burts plus M/Sgt. Paul Poteat and capitalist Peter Nicholls.

Brown Lauds ’Kitten Start

By CHARLIE ELLIOTT
Sports Writer

Despite the fact that the Wildkittens were on the short end of a 40-17 score, Coach Bob Brown said, “We were pleased that a Davidson team stayed with and hustled to the end with a Duke team. Naturally we were disappointed in the score, but we were pleased about many other things from that game.” Davidson took the opening kickoff last Friday, but could not move. They exchanged punts with the Blue Imps and moved the ball rather well for a while, but the Duke defense tightened and Torry Esterkamp punted to the Duke 26. It took 11 plays for Duke to score, relying primarily on their fine tailback Pete Schafer and fullback Don Baglien. Then the ‘Kittens started to move. Quarterback Garth Hampton, fullback John Zaharov, halfback Ken Hill and end George Hannen moved the team 71 yards in seven plays for the tally and Ed Terry tied the score at 7-7 with 14:25 left in the second quarter. The key play in the drive was a brilliant diving catch by Hannen of a Hampton pass on the Duke two. Duke’s second score came with 8:27 left in the half as wingback Mike Fitzpatrick cracked off tackle for three yards. Davidson countered with an 11-yard field goal by Terry, brother of Jim Terry, recent Davidson graduate who holds the Southern Conference record for 47 consecutive extra points. Ed had a total of three PATs and one field goal for the game. Duke took the kickoff but the ‘Kittens defense, led by David Fisher, Whit Morrow, Cooper Brantley and Neal Dettimering, held, and the Blue Imps had to kick. Again the Davidson offense stalled and Esterkamp had to punt them out of a hole. This time he hung his foot in the ball for 70 yards, and the Duke safetymen were dumbfounded as the ball sailed over their heads. But the Duke offense, ahead 13-10, had not been affected by the punt. QB Greg Wuerstle unveiled a terrific passing game. He threw to Schafer and wingback Marcel Courtillet with amazing accuracy, often hitting receivers covered by two or three men. A change in quarterbacks saw Dave Trice come in and throw a 24-yard bomb to Schafer in the end zone. The PAT put Duke ahead 20-10 at the half. The second half was much the same type of game, the main difference being that the ‘Kittens began to show more poise, to hit harder, and to show Duke that they really wanted to play football. But Duke was here to play, too. Baglien bulled his way three yards for a score at 7:35 of the third quarter, and the score was 27-10. The ‘Kittens once again tried to solve the Duke defense, but had to give up the ball. Brantley got a hand on the kick and the ‘Kittens got the ball on the Duke 23. An intercepted pass kept them from driving into the end zone. Duke drove 90 yards in 20 plays for the score on a Trice-to-Courtillet pass which covered 41 yards. Four minutes later the Blue Imps struck again and led 40-10. But the ‘Kittens began to put on a display of heart and led by theBrilliant passing by Gordan Blade, the coaching of Mike Kelly and Hanmer, and the bull-like running of Gabarnv, they scored with 1:29 left in the game, this time on a 21-yard pass to Kelly. Brown said, “The boys are convinced that they can beat a good team and will be ready for Carolina Military this Saturday at CMA's homecoming. CMA is big and tough, and they use an open offense. This is when one defensive slip can beat you. But we'll be ready."

There were several outstanding players for the Wildkittens. Hanmer caught 6 passes for 143 yards, Kelly had nine for 71 yards, Zaharw carried nine times for 85 yards. His replacement, John Barnhardt, injured an arm against Wesleyan, and Harry Hamil had to step into the breach. Coach Fogleman cited the play of six halfbacks, all good ones, as being “almost all holding up together.” The starters are George Brown, team captain, Bayard Miller, and Mack Fiddner. Their substitutes at this demanding position are Geordie Lang, Bob Pryor, and Cata Schimmel.

This afternoon the Wildcat hooters ventured to Laurinburg for a match against a very strong St. Andrews team. The next match for the Foglemen is scheduled for Wednesday against undefeated (3-0) Pula. Fogleman said both teams would be favored over his booters, but that the Wildcats would put forth a better showing than they have in the past.

By GEORGE ROBINSON
Sports Writer

Against PC Gridmen

Tomorrow afternoon the Wildcats travel to Presbyterian to try to even their season record at 2-2. Kickoff time is 2:30 p.m. So far this season Presbyterian has beaten Frederick College and Elon, while losing to Lenoir Rhyne and Wofford. They have won 10 of their last 11 home games and will be out to avenge last year's 35-0 opening game defeat at the hands of the Wildcats. Davidson holds the edge in this rivalry with a record of 12 wins, 11 losses, and two ties. Coach Homer Smith said, “Their greatest strength is the fact that they really want to beat us. This is their Homecoming game, and we are their biggest opponent.” This is the second of five homecoming games in six weeks in which Davidson will play.

Leading the Presbyterian charge will be co-captains Jim Johnson, Joli Monk, and James Smith. Sophomore quarterback JBL Kirkland, rated by Smith as a good passer, will run the varied T offense.

Sailors Scuttle South Carolina For First Win

Davidson's sailors found Southern waters more friendly last weekend, as they easily topped their first conference foe, South Carolina, by 3-1, in a meet held Saturday at the Davidson Lake Campus.

In the first race of the three-out-of-five series, the Wildcats started Ben Reeves, James Lee, and Chip Robertson as skippers with Bob Murphy, Bob Albee, and Tom Kirtley crewing. The ‘Cats dominated from the start and finished 1-2-5 for the win. The second race looked like a replay except that this time the Davidson sailors finished 1-2-4. With two of the necessary three races already won, the Wildcats began making substitutions. Chip Bellamy replaced Robertson, but this time the ‘Cats did not fare so well. Although they still took the first finish, a foul disqualified one of the Davidson boats, allowing USC its first race, and Davidson led two races to one at the midday break.

After lunch, the sailors made a further change with Tom Kirtley moving to the skipper's position with Yates Fletcher crewing. Once again the ‘Cats had a boat disqualified at the first mark, and it looked as if USC had another race. But the two remaining Davidson boats were able to move up during the second lap around the triangular course to take first and third, which gave Davidson a 1/4 point edge over USC and its necessary third win. This win entitles Davidson to attend the fall championships to be held in Charleston, S.C., Nov. 10.

Harriers Outrun Bulldogs, 24-33

Davidson's Wildcat harriers added a victory to their record last Friday on the home cross-country course, trimming The Citadel 24-33 in the Southern Conference event. Sterling Martin, assistant coach, described individual winner Barry St. Clair as “a strong runner and a fine team leader. He should do well this season.” Sophomores Randy Phillips and Mike Morris gave Davidson second and fourth places respectively. The Wildcats' record is now 1-1. The next varsity meet was against Furman this afternoon in Greenville, S.C. Coach Heath Whittle said, “I was very pleased with our running against Citadel. Furman’s ability remains to be seen. We're told that they will be helped by several junior college transfers. It will be a tough meet, but we hope to be strong.”

Tuesday the harriers will host St. Andrews College of Laurinburg in a meet on the Davidson course at 4 p.m. Meanwhile, the freshman team added a victory and a loss to their slate. Saturday, Finrgrave Prep School handed the ‘Kitten runners a 21-38 lashing. This fine high school team finished with three runners breaking the existing two-mile course record. The winner ran the distance in 10 minutes flat, eclipsing the old record by a considerable margin. Tuesday, the frosh fared better as they dealt a 22-35 defeat to Wingate Junior College. Fine times were turned in by each of Davidson's first four place winners: John Puckett, Dan Herd, James Puckett, and Allen Pusey.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

team-racing |: Kirkland's primary receivers will be Smith, a two-year letterman, Johnny Bankhead, and Richard Read, who also handles the place-kicking duties. At running backs, Johnson, Dan Eskstein, and all South Carolina fullback Sam Williams will see most of the action. Presbyterian’s secondary appears to be a weak point, as they have no experienced players and lack depth.

Davidson has made a number of player changes due to injuries. The defense suffered a blow last week when Tupper Morehead sustained a knee injury requiring surgery. He will be out for the rest of the season. Four defensive starters will miss the game due to injuries. They include linebacker Joe Gaddy, halfback Jake Jacobsen, guard Morehead, and end Buddy Newsome. Cliff Hugner and Hack Strickland will fill in for Newsome and Morehead, respectively. Linebacker Lewis Homer, tailback Billy Taylor, and offensive guard Joe Murphy are also injured. Greg Cox will replace Taylor, while Lowell Beyon will start at Murphy’s guard position.

Smith rated Presbyterian on par with Furman, although not as strong as East Carolina. He said, “Our team gets better every time we practice. We did things we have never done before against East Carolina, and I look for more improvement in the Presbyterian game.”

Tumble In Fall To ECC

By DALE DURHAM
Sports Writer

Quarterback Jimmy Poole, hitting 40 percent of his passes, set two Southern Conference records in the 30-7 loss to East Carolina Saturday. He broke the pass completion record with 40 completions and the league pass attempt record with 50 attempts. Commenting on the new record, Poole said that he was pleased but that he would much rather have won. He attributed his performance to excellent pass protection and to the success of several roll-out type passes. He said, “Our most successful play was off the belly series where the fullback would fake into the line and catch a quick pass over the middle.”

“We came to the game prepared to throw,” Poole emphasized, and “we moved the ball real well.” He added, “We played a lot better than the score indicated because we gained 300 yards in total offense.” Coach Homer Smith said that Davidson made a ‘gallant’ effort and that “we were not outfought.” He said, “East Carolina likes to intimidate their opponents, but they did not do that to Davidson.” Smith admitted that Davidson had been “whipped,” but emphasized that “we had to play a catch-up type football game because ECC established a three-touchdown lead early in the game. In order to change the momentum of the game, we had to gamble,” Smith continued, “and they converted our mistakes into touchdowns.”

Although ECC scored points, Smith was not unhappy with the defense. He said, “We planned to stop their ground game and successfully did so in the first quarter. They beat us with a finesse type of football by employing several daring pitchout plays.” Poole agreed, adding, “We were not overpowered by them but we were fooled by a few fancy plays.” Smith also said that Davidson had poor field position only a few times during the game and the ECC punter did a good job in keeping us in our own territory.”

The Purist
An Original by Sero

There is only One Purist ... conceived by Sero ... made only by Sero. We are flattered that competition is making their version of the Purist. To be copied is to be honored. But like a great painting, there is only one original. And so it is with the Purist button-down by Sero. Every intricate detail in quality shirtmaking goes into the making of the Purist. Nothing has been overlooked. The finest fabrics ... exclusive patterns ... proportional tapering ... the seven-button front ... single needle stitching ... box pleating ... these form the basic anatomy of the Purist by Sero. The Purist stands alone in the traditional belt. Copy as they may, there is only one Purist ... conceived by Sero ... made only by Sero.

WHITE OXFORD ... 6.50
COLORS ... 7.00
HERRINGBONES ... 8.50

Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist