Che BDavidsanian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

LOUIS LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

About-Face

The re-interpretation of North Carolina’s ABC laws by the state attorney general’s office raises some interesting questions for the Davidson student. On the one hand, the Mecklenburg ABC Board considers a dormitory room a home, and consequently the only place a student may legally store liquor. On the other hand, the faculty rules state that the only legal place for liquor storage is in a car trunk, which is off-limits, according to the attorney general’s ruling.

Basically, the confusion can be attributed to a complete about-face by the attorney general’s office from a 1961 interpretation of the 1923 Turlington Act: passed while even the sale or possession of liquor was forbidden by a constitutional amendment. When the faculty instituted the trunk rule last year, it did so under the understanding that possession of liquor outside of the home was entirely within the law.

Obviously, the most reasonable solution to the problem lies in a repeal of the law by the state legislature. But at the very earliest the lawmakers will have to wait until next year. In the meantime, the next most desirable plan of action lies in a test case to be taken to the State Supreme Court. Such a ruling, no matter what the outcome, would serve to at least clarify the issue. As the situation now stands, the attorney general’s decision has no legal standing and is accepted by custom only.

It appears that, due to the long-standing acceptance of the old interpretation, there may be a good chance of a court ruling overturning the attorney general's decision. A suit has already been filed to stop enforcement, though its exact status is uncertain. At any rate, the announcement that county police will begin enforcement of the law today seems to hold little application to the Davidson student. As long as he is reasonably discreet, there seems to be no immediate need for student alarm or faculty action before the situation has been clarified in one way or another.

The New Look

Two separate events this week have pointed to what may be the “new look” in the Davidson fraternity system. Both the report of the Social Life Evaluation Committee and the speech at the IFC’s pledge banquet placed responsibility for modernizing the system squarely on the shoulders of the fraternity system. At the same time, both statements called attention to the positive role that fraternities play here and expressed an optimism in the system’s future.

To most Davidson students, conditioned to the idea that all representatives of the Hill are anti-fraternity, the Committee’s report will come as a pleasant surprise. The positive approach to the fraternity’s position on campus and reluctance to place complete blame on fraternities for campus social and intellectual problems is commendable. To the casual reader, the report might almost appear to be a commendation to the system.

But the lack of any specific proposals should not mislead the reader into thinking the system has escaped any responsibility for improving both itself and the campus as a whole. While the committee was somewhat vague as to what it expected of fraternities, it was morally and legally right in calling for a new orientation. While it defended fraternities’ right to be primarily social groups, it called for a broadening of their scopes. The central place of fraternities on campus makes it imperative that they also be willing to assume certain responsibilities in campus life.

The mere existence of such a report, asserting the positive contributions and integral position of the fraternity on this campus, is in itself encouraging to us, and the report should spur fraternity men on to taking the initiative in reforming the fraternity system. The committee’s report is proof that the system does have friends on the faculty and administration who are willing to work to bring about a viable social system for the entire campus.

The speech by William LeClere Monday also revealed an unusual twist, but from a different angle from the report of the Social Life Evaluation Committee. The idea of a professional fraternity man, speaking at an IFC-sponsored function, commenting that “maybe what you need is a lousy rush” to make fraternities face up to their needs for revitalization seems almost comical.

It is encouraging that the fraternities themselves, at least to a certain degree, are facing up to the need for an inner reform. The response to Mr. William LeClere’s talk, in the form of questions and comments from the audience, indicates that some fraternity men are indeed thinking seriously about the problem. Perhaps pledges, with only six weeks of exposure to fraternity life, will begin looking for means of improving the system and looking beyond the rut described by Mr. LeClere as “keg, combo and collections of couples.”

Hour Of Reckoning

Elsewhere in this issue, Registrar F. W. Hengeveld reports that a rash of professors’ turning in grades late caused mid-semester reports to be sent out considerably later than usual this year. While we cannot condone such a lack of promptness on the parts of our professors, we can report that a system of delaying grades until the end of the spring holidays is a vast improvement. One of the bleaker aspects of the yearly respite has been the traditional explanation to concerned parents of a failure to obtain the expected academic excellence. Mercifully, this year, such an explanation was unnecessary.

Our only suggestion to the registrar would be that he forewarn us in the future that grades will be late, to prevent the daily ritual of having to be the first member of the household to the mailbox. Such foreknowledge would save endless hours of agony spent in wondering exactly when the hour of reckoning will be.

JOHN BAILEY
ARCH McCALLUM
PAUL MARION
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Managing Editors

CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER
ROBBIE HOOKER
LINDSAY DAVIS
RICK MILDNER
Associate Editors

Managing Editors
News Editor
Feature Editor
Copy Editor
Sports Editor

TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editor
YATES FAISON
Photographers
BILL OLSON
GEORGE PURVIS
Cartoonists
LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY
JACK LINGLE
Assistant Business Manager
BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager
MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributions this week: Ron Snow, Charles McEwen, Billy Farr, Kent Gladstone, Toby Watt, Frank Fleming, Jim Cooley, Ed Embree, Bruce Weihe, John Williams, Bob Schofield, Dick Richards, Dick Spencer, Don Sewell, Bob Finlayson, Joel Keys, Larry Norfleet, Dave King, Chip Robertson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Spring Holidays Bring Hopes, Regrets

Spring break has ended. The hope is that we can now return with a refreshed attitude that will allow easy completion of the year’s work. The longest “no break” stretch of the year is over, and you can breathe a contented sigh from the smug security of a vacation which allowed plenty of time to get all back work finished and even offered the chance to get a little ahead.

But we must be careful: spring break also opened the season of procrastination when it is generally in order to do anything to keep from opening the books. The long days make it easier to get a lot of outside work done (especially at the lake campus), and there is always the prospect of another summer with something different (even if it is only ROTC summer camp) that will occupy our thoughts and cause our minds to wander. We all have questions as to the value of spring vacation and if we don’t, we should.

BETTER THINGS

The week of spring vacation brings promise of better things to come. Anyone who isn’t behind in his work by this time is either a freshman who still believes he has to keep up in everything in order to pass or a second-semester senior who really doesn’t have that much to do anyway.

The winter lull after first semester exams has been a good exercise in how to get behind without really trying because nothing is new; the days are lousy; the end of the year is a long way off, and there doesn’t seem to be much future to anything, least of all the school work. The only realists in the spring are those who take off from the books and forget them for a week.

LEAVE BOOKS

There is something about the psychology of vacations that promotes a marked antipathy between student and studies. I wonder how long it will take most of us to know that we might as well leave all our books right here on campus and really “blow it out” on weekends and vacations? There is a question of intellectual honesty here which the season forbids discussing. By this time of the year we have taken books with us on every vacation except semester break. How much does anyone get done over vacation? No one will admit doing anything, and those that do give some semblance of an answer have usually read every bit of one paperback novel which had already been half completed before vacation began.

INCONVENIENT VACATION

A little thought can easily bring one to the realization that a week-long vacation, especially in the spring, is the most inconvenient length vacation conceivable. Two days or three weeks are obviously much more acceptable, and in this day of great intellectual foresight (or is it hindsight?) continued rethinking of old ideas, the longer period would seem most suitable. Only while looking forward to a spring vacation of two days or three weeks can a student be entirely realistic and honest in making his plans. A week for a vacation is unsatisfactory because it causes the student to fool himself and others miserably.

FLORIDA OR NASSAU

If we were given a two-day spring break, then no one would try to do any studying. All books could be left on campus with a clear conscience, and by careful planning of class cuts you could still get all the way to Florida or Nassau and back in just as much of a run-down condition as you are able to develop in a week. There would no longer be the added pressure of the stacks of books on the desk at home each time you go to your room to change.clothes for another date. (After all, you had to go home to write that term paper). Two days on the beach allow you to meet almost as many girls as you can in a week, and this amount of time denies you most of the problems which can crop up after a week of mixed-up dates.

GUILT FEELINGS

Compared to a two-day vacation, a week is just too long. In a week-long vacation, you cannot count all the spare time that you'll have, and you even find that you can spend an entire day doing what you wish to do. Then the guilt feelings arise, but they are not great enough to cause you to tackle the ominous stack of books. It is even easy to spend such a day or a week of such days without getting anything done except reading four or five pages of history before falling asleep. Concentrated study is impossible, and remorse only arises after the return to campus. The entire week is spent in delusions of how much time there is left. At the beginning, it is amazing how long the days are and how much you can plan to do those last few days. By the end of the week, the days are so short that there really isn’t any point in beginning anything new. The pressure from the omnipresent ominous stack of books is not even great enough to get you out of bed before ten in the morning to get a little work done. Resolutions don't work either. On vacation, anything, even visiting New Friends For Davidson, is preferable to study.

Smith Points To Shortcomings In ‘Work-Week' Vespers Theory

Dear Editor:

One of the arguments which has been advanced in defense of the present system of Vespers is that it requires students to come back to the campus on Sunday evenings. Thus students have time to do a few hours of work and get a good night's sleep before Monday classes.

Speech Changes Mark World Without Accent

Men always have paid too much and too little attention to their own and others’ speech. Back in the days of the Judges, forty and two thousand Ephraimites were slain when they “could not frame to pronounce” the word Shibboleth aright. Peter was recognized as a Galilean because, as one of his accusers said, “thy speech betrayeth thee.” And King Lear warned Cordelia, “Mend your speech a little, Lest you mar your fortunes.”

There are lands (England for example) where too much attention may be paid to one’s accent. There are others (America, for example) where too little often is paid. While Shaw's “Pygmalion” reflected the first, we sometimes wonder whether a similar play might not have its good effect in the United States—particularly when we note the spread of the hideous flat “o” (resulting in ahrange juice, cup of cahfee, and Rahls Royce).

Now from England comes word that “the best English accent is no accent at all” (of course, this is an impossibility: everyone without exception speaks with an accent and in dialect). Both upper- and lower-class accents are said to be tending toward a middle meeting ground. Radio, television, wider economic opportunities, and better education are said to be responsible.

In the United States, a growing number of universities, colleges, and institutions are working to eliminate those peculiarities of Negro speech which are found to be a serious barrier to economic and cultural advancement. All these changes are doubtless inevitable and may, on the whole, be for the best. But we cannot help regretting them a bit. When we are told that such-and-such an actress is from Alabama and then find that her soft Southern accent has been trained away to a nonregional standardization, we confess to disappointment. Or, when we heard T. S. Eliot, a product of St. Louis, out-Oxford Oxford, we could never suppress a feeling of wonderment.

Eugene Field wrote: “I like the Anglo Saxon speech With its direct revealings...” Today's question is: How far should we seek to hide those revealings?

Christian Science Monitor

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but must request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

The basic point of the argument is that Vespers helps to maintain a work week of adequate length. There is an important distinction between the amount of work one does and the amount of time spent doing it. It seems to me that it is the responsibility of the faculty to see that students do a certain amount of work, and that the work be of a certain quality. They can do this by making proper assignments, giving writs, reviews and exams, and requiring papers. Their real power to see that enough good work is done resides in the grade book, and in their personal influence upon students.

On the other hand, given the work to be done, it is the responsibility of the student to decide how much time he must spend in doing it, and when this time will be. Students should be required to do the work—not to spend six days doing it or to do it on Sunday evenings, as the work week argument for Vespers attempts to do. But that is not all the work-week argument attempts. It also seeks to bring students back to campus for a good night's sleep before classes. To do this, Vespers is not enough. We must also have rules that students be in bed by midnight with the lights out—not only on Sunday but on all other work nights. Then they must be required to go to sleep. Clearly, the consistent application of this argument shows it to be absurd.

It seems to me that this argument about the work week camouflages the real issues in the Vespers debate. The primary issue is whether Davidson is to have a religious program which is really effective. Will the values and beliefs for which the college stands be presented to students in the most attractive, persuasive, compelling way possible? Another question is whether the college will give students the freedom to witness by their actions whatever they may come to believe as a result of their education at Davidson. I hope the question will be decided on these grounds, and not because of much less valid and important considerations.

Murray Smith
Davidson College

UNREAD NOVELS

But let us consider the more taxing three-week alternative to the one-week vacation. Here you could take with you the usual amount of books which includes a term paper, all assignments which are overdue, the short paper due the week after you return, and those two novels you had been putting off reading. For one week you would be allowed to really enjoy yourself free of the cares of the ominous stack of books. (In the spring when you have three weeks you can forget an ominous stack of books for one week.) Then, after completely running yourself ragged, you could return to a normal week of convalescence (the equivalent of the week after spring break under the present system). In this second week, you could perfectly plan your work for the remainder of the semester and even begin an attempt at diminishing the number of books to be covered, either by doing the work or deciding it could wait until you get back. (It is important to keep in mind that there is one entire week after this in which anything left undone can be completed.)

RECUPERATION GODS

After this second week which, in all intellectual honesty, you knew would be pretty well sacrificed to the “gods of recuperation,” you should be prepared to finish that first novel. This is the one that was already half completed when you got home. At this point, you can return to school refreshed in the belief that you had a well-organized and unhurried spring vacation. Even the three-week vacation has its problems where studies are concerned, but at least it allows more time for organizational purposes for the completion of the semester's work. Like so many other things of our day and age, we can see that the one-week spring break is an outmoded thing of the past. Must we cling to such vestiges of an age gone by when we can use our newly acquired knowledge to choose a more suitable length of vacation, one which meets the needs of the day? We search for honesty and consistency today. Why do in one week what can be as effectively done in two days or even three weeks? (The latter I find somewhat more acceptable as it does contribute to the idea of the “study-oriented" vacation which is so popular today.) Whatever the length of vacation, we know that anything left undone will get done sooner or later, and well, we work better under pressure anyway. We all know there are two full months of class days left. Plenty of time. It’s that kind of season.

‘63 Grad Views Campus Religion

Dear Editor:

On a recent missionary journey to Davidson, during the heat of the Vespers boycott movement, I was goaded into an examination of the religious situation on campus. Here are a few observations and comments.

1. Compulsory Vespers is self-defeating in that it promotes corporate blasphemy instead of corporate worship. The preacher is outvoted 231 to 1 (if attendance is that good), and God gets the black ball. However, this is an indictment of the students and not God, or the goals of the college.

2. Students passionately protest for Freedom FROM religion with no intention of using their Freedom FOR anything. Expelling one demon from the house creates a vacuum which will suck in seven other demons worse than the first. “and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first.”

3. The students still live in the 19th century theologically: i.e., they either attack and reject or desperately cling to a 19th-century brand of Christianity.

4. The only effective witness made on campus is by students to fellow students. The campus is immune to faculty and imported preachers.

5. Students who neglect private devotions commit spiritual suicide.

Bob Scales ('63)
Columbia Seminary
Decatur, Ga.