Page Six
September 22, 1967
Sher Mavidsenian

Today’s Student Activist Is Usually From Liberal, Affluent Family

ED. NOTE: The following is reprinted by permission of The New York Times News Services.

By JOHN LEO

NEW YORK — Who is the student activist—the collegian who demonstrates or organizes for civil rights, against the draft or
the Vietnam war, or for more student freedom? Psychologists and social scientists, operating independently on various campuses and with varying
research methods, agree on this portrait: Activists as a group are more intelligent, less prejudiced and psychologically more stable than
nonactivists. Religion is not important to them, but social issues are, particularly those that do not involve their own direct
personal interests.

Most activists come from relatively affluent middle-class liberal Democratic families. Their parents tend to be highly educated, come from recent
immigrant stock, are permissive in child-rearing and have closer effective relationships with their children than the parents of nonactivists.

Many Are Jewish

A disproportionately high number of activists are Jewish. Very few are Roman Catholic. Activists are slightly less alienated than nonactivists,
and no more in rebellion against parental ideas and authority than the rest of the student body. (“Hippies” and “beats”—the
fully alienated students and nonstudents with whom the activists are often confused—are found to be in rebellion against parents, particularly
their fathers.)

Referring to eight studies done at the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Chicago and Pennsylvania State University,
Dr. Joseph Katz of the Institute for Study of Human Problems at Stanford University said: “The amazing fact is that
the results of all these studies converge, that they do not contradict each other in the major findings.”

In a 55-page monograph prepared for the U.S. Office of Education and just released, Katz wrote that student activists “tend
to be more flexible, tolerant and realistic; less dependent upon authority, rules or rituals for managing social relationships.

“In their values, activists tend to be concerned with self-expression, intellectual orientation, sense of community with and responsibility for their
fellow men, while the nonactivists tend to be more success-oriented, self-denying, conventional, competitive, self-controlled, foresighted and orderly.”

He added that findings of close emotional and intellectual ties between activists and their parents “put into question the ‘conflict-between-generations’
theory that has been advanced as one explanation of the activity protest.”

Dr. Kenneth Keniston, professor of psychology at Yale University writes in an article prepared for a forthcoming issue of the
Journal of Social Issues: “The higher the student’s grade average, the more outstanding his academic achievements, the more likely it
is that he will become involved in any given political demonstration.” He said that parents of student protesters include large
numbers of liberal Democrats plus an unusually large scattering of pacifists and socialists. If the parents are religious, he added,
they tend to be connected with the more liberal denominations such as Unitarianism, reform Judaism or the Religious Society of
Friends (Quakers).

The high Jewish representation, also noted by Keniston, was ascribed by many researchers to a Jewish tradition of high social
and intellectual commitment.

In his study of a University of Chicago sit-in involving class ranking and the draft, a sociologist found that grandparents
as well as parents of protesters were disproportionately highly educated and not new arrivals to high social status, compared with
families of nonactivists.

“Socially Fortunate”

Commenting on this and other studies, Keniston wrote: “In brief, activists are not drawn from disadvantaged, status-anxious, underprivileged or uneducated
groups. On the contrary, they are selectively recruited from among those young Americans who have had the most socially fortunate
upbringing.”

Surveys varied on the question of participation of Republican students. One study found no Republicans at all in a Chicago
sample, while the study at Berkeley found that 13 percent of demonstrators were conservative Republicans and 10 percent liberal Republicans.

Activists tend to be a small minority even on the most protest-prone campus. Nevertheless, researchers report that they have a
wide impact. Studies show that activists tend to study the humanities, particularly the social sciences, and to avoid career-oriented education,
particularly business and engineering. Activists are depicted as flexible, antidogmatic, democratic and relatively unimpressed with personal achievement.

ORCHESTRAL VOICES PRACTICE
Welsh, Kombrink Ready For Winter Concerto Premiere

‘New Action Union’ Plans More Fall Flicks, Hungry-d

By ED EMBREE
Managing Editor

Programs ranging from the return of the Fine Films Series to an expansion of the Hungry-d Restaurant are included in
the fall schedule of B. A. Aiken's “New Action Union.”

The College Union has resumed this year its Fine Films program including major motion pictures from throughout the world. Calle
Mayor, a Spanish film, will initiate the series September 28 followed by Eclipse, an Italian film directed by Michelangelo Antonioni,
on October 26. A French movie written by Jean Cocteau, Les Enfants Terribles, will be shown November 30 and on
January 4 the Russian film, A Ballad of Love, and an experimental film, Lot in Sodom, will be shown.

John Lipfert, chairman of the Union Coffee House (UCH) committee, plans to include professional entertainment in his schedule of six
performances this semester. He also said that he hopes to exchange talent with area schools for some programs.

Club (Continued from Page One)

Membership would be open. Fees, Anderson said, would be equivalent to a fraternity’s dues and board. The club hoped last
spring for a new house somewhere on the campus, but in light of expenses—Workman said a new furnished house would
cost about $10,000—the faculty committee recommended renovating Lingle Manor.

“Later on, if things worked well, we could build,” he said. “I definitely think there is room on this campus
for both restricted groups and open groups,” Workman said. “For some, a campus club would meet their needs far better
than a fraternity with its ritual, exclusiveness and folderol.”

A small mixer with Sullins and Sacred Heart for October 7 has been added to the fall entertainment schedule, said
Charles Cameron, Union social chairman. Cameron is also working closely with the Social Council in planning after-parties, late-night informal concerts
and breakfasts for Homecoming and the two concert weekends this semester. The annual Union Christmas Party will be held December
14 and feature “The Fabulous Five” combo.

Jens Bjerre will present a film-lecture program on Red China October 27 as part of the Union Travel Committee's program.
Tom Alison, chairman of this committee, has also planned a film-lecture on skiing for November 15 as well as a
skiing trip this winter and a trip to the Bahamas for spring vacation.

Among some of Andy Clay's “great all-time flicks” for this semester are Moll Flanders, Georgy Girl, Von Ryan’s Express, Sink
The Bismarck and The Trip.

“The Pickle Brothers,” a Marx-brothers type comic trio with experience on the Ed Sullivan Show and Kraft Summer Music Hall,
are slated for a week-long appearance on the first Hungry-d the week of October 16-21. The second Hungry-d will run
October 30-November 4 featuring Leanda. This young part-Indian folksinger was selected by the State Department to represent the U.S. in
a world competition this summer in Poland.

The Hungry-d, brainchild of College Union Director C. Shaw Smith, began two years ago as a restaurant with a floor
show by comedian Fred Smoot. Working with Fred Weintraub and Brian Sennett of the Fredana Management Co. in New York,
several interested people who work with student activities have expanded his original idea into a Coffee House Circuit including over
60 colleges and universities.

In October, David F. Richey, assistant professor of music, and his wife will be featured in a piano and violin
concert jointly sponsored by the Music Department and the College Union.

The Union is also in the process of a self-evaluation in which ideas for new and improved programs are being
gathered from surveys, old files, suggestions, and professional publications, said Smith. Smith added, however, “Nothing substitutes for the student or
professor who has positive, but unexpressed ideas and suggestions.”

Davidson World Premiere Site For Professor’s New Concerto

Davidson College will become the site of a world premiere this winter as music professor Wilmer Welsh presents his new
“Concerto for Voice and Orchestra” in January.

Welsh’s most recent concerto uses the solo voice as if it were another instrument in the orchestra. “This is truly
a virtuoso piece,” said Welsh of the first movement. “The soloist must sing continuously for almost the entire 30 minutes
of the piece. It is very taxing.”

The composer has written the concerto especially for Miss Ilona Kombrink, whom he met in Charlotte last year at the
premiere of his oratorio “Joseph,” in which Miss Kombrink soloed. Miss Kombrink, a member of the music faculty of the
University of Wisconsin, again will be featured as the soloist with the Chicago Little Symphony at the January premiere. Thor
Johnson, director of the Chicago Little Symphony, will conduct the performance.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

Inadequacies of our present facilities. Brown Castigates Calls VC ‘Most Honest’ an on GEORGE BROWN By FRANKLIN ANDERSON Assistant Managing
Editor “I think the President and Dean Rusk are wrong, and I have a right to say so,” said Democratic
Representative George E. Brown to an applauding student body in assembly yesterday. “Both of them were wrong,” he commented, this
time referring to former Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and Secretary of State Dean Rusk, “and we're paying the
price of it, to the tune of 100 thousand American casualties.” Speaking of the President, Nationals (Continued from Page One)
one which, in the national representatives’ judgment, “offers reasonable promise of providing substantial alleviation of the problem of the unbid
without the dangers to the fraternity system inherent in all total opportunity (compulsory assignment) arrangements, or mandatory affiliation plans... .”
A meeting of fraternity presidents and Interfraternity Council Chairman Gus Cochran was called last Thursday night by Phi Gamma Delta
President Gary Peklo to consider the implications of the resolution. The fraternity presidents and Cochran met again on Tuesday evening
to discuss the matter with Fraternity Liaison Officer Tom Covington and Dr. William Workman, chairman of the faculty committee on
the College Union, Fraternities, and Clubs. Rector of the Interlochen Academy of Music, will conduct the Little Symphony. Like “Joseph,”
the concerto has a Biblical background, taken from the Song of Solomon. Welsh agrees with Biblical scholars who interpret the
Song of Solomon as either a wedding song or a mystical expression. The music, therefore, may either have sexual connotations
or be interpreted as a mystical union between God and the soul. Welsh prefers that the latter interpretation apply to
his work. “I see the soul as passive, therefore feminine,” says Welsh. “In the first movement the soul becomes aware
of the presence of God but doesn't know how to get through to union with him. Thus there is a
feeling of tension and a sense of incompletion.” The second movement completes the unity with a series of “ostinatos” or
repetitive drives in a rhythmical pattern. The third and final movement begins, “What is your beloved more than another beloved,
oh fairest of women?” Welsh interprets this movement as the attempt “to describe what union means. There is a feeling
of fulfillment and ecstasy, progressing Council To Print New Handbooks In a special meeting today, the Student Council voted to
publish a Student Organization Handbook. The 15-page pamphlet will include the officers of various campus organizations, Honor Court and Student
Council members, various committee members, the Student Body Constitution and a calendar of important campus activities. The publication, to be
known as the Student Organizations Handbook, will be financed through various sources and is designed “to fill an information gap,
especially for the freshmen,” according to Council President Tom Earnhardt. Bruce Weihe, Ben Cannon and Peter Hobbie were appointed to
assemble material for the pamphlet. “It should be ready in about two weeks,” according LBJ, Brown said that after the
1964 election, Johnson “adopted Goldwater's policy, and Goldwater became a peace candidate.” Elected to Congress in 1963, from the 27th
Congressional district in California, Brown has opposed U.S. policy in Vietnam for three years. Pointing to an inability and lack
of desire to fight the war on the part of the South Vietnamese people, he said that the only solution
would be to totally Americanize the war. “The most honest people in Vietnam are the Viet Cong,” continued Brown as
he cited corruption within the high command in Vietnam and the consequently high 15 percent desertion rate of the troops
as reasons that Americans will have to fight the war alone. The Viet Cong will execute a man who steals
a chicken, he explained, but within the past three years there has been a 100 percent turnover in the Vietnamese
generals, who then leave for exile with a fortune in stolen funds. Brown attributed the current predicament in Southeast Asia
to policies formulated under Dulles. to Earnhardt. The council also adopted today a resolution to send to the Publications Board,
specifying certain changes which should be adopted in future editions of the Wildcat Handbook. Among these changes are an earlier
date for election of an editor, a definite deadline for the submission of all copy to the editor, and a
council of publications officers, one from each major campus organization, who would check the copy to assure that all material
concerning their organizations had been submitted. Bill Watson was appointed to draw up the proposal. Details of the changes would
be left to the Publications Board. The Council also approved a new seating arrangement for Charlotte Coliseum basketball games. It
includes the soft folding chairs on both sides immediately behind the teams, four similar rows on both ends and a
special section higher up. through a period of excitement, and at the close going through a stagnant timeless peak.” As
the concerto ends the soul is prepared to meet any earthly chagrin that may come. The union with God is
permanent. The evenly pulsating music is accented with varying degrees of force to suggest a flow of emotions. A sense
of continuity is achieved by repeating the first vocalizations of each movement at the end with the French horn. Welsh
has rehearsed only informally with Miss Kombrink. Full rehearsals with the Little Symphony are scheduled for this fall. wear’ Pi
Kapps Capture Scholastic Title Pi Kappa Phi took over the lead in final fraternity averages for the 1966-67 school year.
The Pi Kapps turned in a 1.904 final average to top the second place Pikas, who pulled a 1.852. The
all-student average for the year was 1.71. The senior class average was 1.901. FRATERNITY Pi Kappa Phi Pi Kappa Alpha
Phi Delta Theta Sigma Nu Sigma Phi Epsilon Sigma Chi Beta Theta Pi Phi Gamma Delta Kappa Alpha Alpha Tau
Omega Kappa Sigma Sigma Alpha Epsilon Second semester 1966-67 1.861 1.904 1.672 1.852 1.754 1.756 1.740 1.748 1.726 1.737 1.608
1.716 1.596 1.706 1.597 1.680 1.569 1.658 1.548 1.643 1.467 1.502 1.394 1.421 Four Professors Cited For Service County Commissioner
James G. Martin and three other Davidson College professors were cited in Charlotte Thursday night for their contributions to society
and to their fields of endeavor. Davidson College alumni in Mecklenburg and Union counties presented plaques of appreciation to Martin
for his work as chairman of the Board of Mecklenburg County Commissioners; to Anthony S. Abbott for his book “Shaw
and Christianity”; to William T. Lammers for his studies of water and of water pollution, and to Wilmer H. Welsh
for his composition of the oratorio “Joseph.” Martin is a member of the college's chemistry department; Abbott, English; Lammers, biology;
and Welsh, music. Since Welsh was unable to attend, his wife Constance, who wrote the libretto for “Joseph,” accepted the
plaque in his behalf. Faculty, YUCA Combine To Aid College Libraries The Davidson College YMCA combined efforts with members of
the faculty last summer to provide nearly 1,000 books for three colleges, two in Japan and one in North Carolina,
which needed larger libraries. The project was mainly the result of the work of Dr. William P. Cumming, professor of
English. Cumming had been informed last November of the need for books at a new women’s junior college in Seki,
Japan. He was contacted by a personal friend, Rev. James A. McAlpine, a Davidson alumnus and chairman of the board
of trustees of Seibi Gakuin, a school in Gifu, Japan. The school was trying to establish a junior college branch.
The college had been informed by Japanese authorities that it could not receive accreditation unless it fulfilled a quota of
10,000 volumes in the school library by the fall of 1967. McAlpine had some hope that Cumming would be able
to help, and he was. A few months after McAlpine's request, Davidson's professors had to move thousands of their own
books from the Chambers Building because of the remodeling. Cumming sent notices to the members of the faculty asking them
to donate some of their books to Rev. McAlpine's school. He also hoped at the same time to help another
Japanese college in need, Shikoku Christian College, as well as Barber-Scotia College in Concord. By the end of the academic
year, faculty members had donated nearly 1,000 volumes, which Cumming and his wife sorted for shipment to the three different
schools. Sunday Night Open House The 578 books were destined for the two colleges in Japan, and several hundred more
for Barber Scotia. The biggest problem Cumming had was finding a way to send the books to Japan. He discovered
that it would cost over $175 to ship them himself. But, with the aid of the Presbyterian Church United States
Board of World Missions, Cumming learned of a Presbyterian women's group in Baton Rouge, La., that could send the books
for only 13 cents each. The College YMCA donated the funds necessary to cover the shipping costs. The homes of
the following professors will open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students
on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Kaylor
