Page Four May 19, 1967 The Davidsonian

Library Seeks Books

Tom Earnhardt echoed in Chapel Thursday the plea he made to the Student Council Monday night for students "to please return the books which are now missing from the library." The books to which he referred are the more than 400 books which are now missing from the library without having ever been checked out. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, Director of the Library, is very upset over the absence of these books even though about 100 have been turned in during the past week. Dr. Davidson has extended the period in which students can return the books.

In other Student Council action Monday night, Earnhardt announced that minutes of the Student Council meeting will be available in the Union for those interested.

Sunday Night Open House

The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Stroud
Brinkley
McGavock

Davidson Native New Professor

Dr. Thomas P. Harrison, native of Davidson, will return to the college next year to take a visiting professorship in English. Harrison's father, Thomas P. Harrison, was professor of English here from 1895 to 1908, and later became dean and provost.

DAVIDSON’S NEW RED-LIGHT DISTRICT

Because of the crowded traffic conditions which result during the times when shifts are being changed at a local mill, a stoplight had to be installed at the intersection of the access road to U.S. 21 and a small street leading out from the mill. However, instead of switching to a blinker-light operation at other times, the light continues to plague traffic along the access road. (Staff Photo by Olson)

COORDINATION NECESSARY

Officers Base Decisions On Funds, People

ED. NOTE: This is the last of a series of three articles about the decision-making process at Davidson.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Copy Editor

Money and people are the basic concerns of the Treasurer and Business Manager, and the Director of Public Relations and Development. The mechanisms for the operation of the financial and business programs of the college are under the supervision of Robert A. Currie, treasurer and business manager. In the structure for decision making, the Treasurer and Business Manager reports directly to the President. The Offices of the Bursar and the Director of the Physical Plant come under his direct supervision. In addition, such operations of the college as the laundry and the bookstore are associated with the business office.

Currie pointed out that his job is "basically divided into two sections: the financial operations as opposed to the day-to-day operations of the college." As treasurer, Currie is responsible for receiving and disbursing moneys from and to a number of different offices. As business manager, he must look after the financial needs of the college: its endowment, its building programs, and its overall business operations. Major decisions for the investment of funds must come from the Board of Trustees, Currie said. For instance, the recent decision to change investment counsel was initiated by the trustees. Currie carried out the details of this change, which involved some portfolio changes.

In addition to his handling the investment of funds, Currie prepares the operating budget for the college. He balances budget requests with his estimates of the income of the college for the coming year. Currie is involved with decisions of "give and take." In summary, Currie, along with the President and the Board of Trustees, decides who gets how much.

Currie pointed out the coordination that must go on between his office and that of the Director of Public Relations and Development. In applying for the grant from the Ford Foundation, the projected budget for 10 years was prepared. Currie and his staff prepared this budget through 1974-75. After that, the college development office started fund-raising plans.

Coordination is the keynote for Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development. "It's difficult to separate public relations, alumni activities, and development. They're all closely related," Sailstad said. Under the revised structure of the college, the Director of Alumni Activities and the Director of Public Information report directly to Sailstad’s office. In turn, the Director of Public Relations and Development reports to the President.

"All that is of interest and benefit to the college is publicized," Sailstad indicated, when talking about the public relations matters. "This office does not say what the endowment and expenditures for the (physical) plant will be, but it does make recommendations," Currie said.

The planning that went into the current Ford Challenge campaign reflects the second type of decision that Sailstad must make. Securing money for college development is part of the job of being director of development. Careful planning accounts for a program of fund raising that "doesn't fluctuate," according to Sailstad. The strategy, so to speak, was mapped out in advance.

In the area of public relations, Sailstad has a favorite project: education. Sailstad used as examples the Executive Weekend, a refresher course in the liberal arts for businessmen, and the Davidson Seminar program for ministers. In another aspect, there are projects for the advancement of the college as a liberal arts center for its area. By keeping alumni and patrons within a 100-mile radius informed about art, drama, and music programs at Davidson, the college can entertain "guests" who "add zest to the intellectual life of the college," as Sailstad put it.

Decision making at Davidson, in summary, is far from being a one-man project. Ultimately, final decisions are made by the Board of Trustees.Angle of his job. Trust but decision making. In March of each year, requests are sent out to all departments,” Currie said. “This office accumulates all budget requests and then prepares the actual budget, which must ultimately be approved by the Board of Trustees.”

In an interim step, all budget requests from academic and student affairs offices are first turned in to the respective deans who, after some consultation and perhaps some cutting, turn in the requests to the business office. The trustees must make the final decision on business.

Davidsonian Staff

The publication of the Davidson College Bulletin serves a double purpose. In one sense, the bulletin is a public relations publication; in another sense, the bulletin serves a publicity function. Although the alumni office does the work of putting the bulletin together, Sailstad emphasized that there is a more highly structured process than simply having the trustees make all the major decisions. That body is itself influenced by decisions and recommendations from the President and the four major administrative offices. The trustees are simply at the pinnacle of the pyramid of the college's corporate structure provided for making decisions.

The structure for decision making is unchanging. It is the decisions themselves, made by administrators operating within this structure, that can be dynamic and creative. The decisions and the men that make them, not the structure itself, are important to the functioning of the college. After all, an organization is no better than the men who compose it.

Charlotte imposed tighter attendance requirements for North Carolina State University in Raleigh. A professor of English at the University of Texas for many years, Harrison has written numerous books and articles on Elizabethan and 17th-century literature as well as on ornithology. His "They Tell of Birds: Chaucer, Spenser, Milton, and Drayton" is the authoritative book on the subject.

Although many of his writings relate to Spenser and Elizabethan dramatists, the range of his publications extends from the Middle Ages to the 19th century in both English and foreign literatures. Dr. George Labban, who studied under Harrison at the University of Texas, commented: “Professor Harrison's courses on Shakespeare and Spenser were the highlights of my academic program at Texas. His scholarship and his skill in teaching provided for me a truly inspiring experience. Davidson College is to be congratulated for having him come to the faculty.”

Next year Dr. Harrison will teach elective courses on Shakespeare and seminars on Spenser, Donne, and Shakespeare.

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
Storage For Students’ Winter Clothes — Free Mothproofing
MAIN ST. Davidson, N. C.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Assistant Managing Editors: NAT HEYWARD, FRANK ANDERSON, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Sports Editor: MIKE JOHNSON
Assistant Sports Editors: JACK WELLMAN, DON SEWELL
Circulation Manager: DANNY WHITE
Advertising Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Mark Wingate, Lewis Lavine, Ben Garrett, Bob Stubbs, Charles Elliott, John Mack, Cliff Duke, Rocky Crosswhite, Chuck Green, Mac Hobby, John Williams, Carter Fussell, Woody Gleason, Bill Graham, Allen Lewis, Bill Spencer, Danny Coltrane, Marvin Ellison, John Barber, Joe Jones, Bill Cockrill, and Bob Buchanan.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Subscribe now to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Don’t miss a single issue next fall.

THE DAVIDSONIAN SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Name:
Address:
City:
State:
Zip:
— I enclose $4.00
— Bill me at $4.50

Mail to Circulation Manager
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036