Page Four November 17, 1967 The Davidsonian

FRUSTRATION NOTED

Orators Capture Trophy

Gary Cash and Grey Mason posted a 5-1 record to win first place in affirmative debate at the University of
Georgia Novice Debate Tournament last weekend. Davidson finished fourth overall in the tournament. The negative team, Gil Terriberry and Joe
Smith, won four rounds and lost two. The College of William and Mary won the tournament, which included 29 novice
debate teams from throughout the South.

“This was a tough tournament,” debate coach Ray McMillin said. “I'm very pleased with the novice team’s performance. This is
only their third tournament of the year.”

Varsity debaters are preparing for their next tourney, Nov. 30-Dec. 2. The Dixie Classic at Wake Forest will feature teams
from throughout the eastern United States. Tom Wheatley and Mac Hobby, together with Fletcher Hartsell and Windy March, will represent
the varsity debaters at Wake Forest. The novice team members take only one side of the debate topic at their
tournaments, while varsity debaters are required to debate both sides.

“The varsity should be well prepared for the Dixie Classic,” said McMillin. “The experience we gained at Emory two weeks
ago has helped us and we've expanded our research.”

EARL’S PEARLS

(Staff Photo by Fonvielle) MacCormac, Maloney, students discuss mad society.

Chaotic City Layouts Show Man Has Lost Style In Life

By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

“Man has lost his style of life,” Dr. Earl R. MacCormac said Tuesday. MacCormac, associate professor of philosophy, spoke at
Sigma Alpha Epsilon on the topic of “Order and Society,” the second discussion in the fraternity’s “Blow-Up ‘67” series.

MacCormac contrasted the order found in the ancient Mohenjo-daro civilization of the Indus Valley of Pakistan and the chaos resulting
from the conflict of various modern orders of society. He showed several slides of Mohenjo-daro and of scenes in the
U.S. to illustrate his lecture. The slides depicting the plan of Mohenjo-daro showed that the city streets were oriented to
the points of the compass. “The idea was that if you can capture the orientation of the cosmos in the
orientation of your city streets, you can control the chaos outside the city,” MacCormac said.

MacCormac then showed some aerial photographs of Boston, Mass., and, pointing out the chaotic organizations of the city streets, asked
“If you were an archaeologist from the year 3,000, what kind of order could you get from that?”

“The questions I'm trying to raise here are, first, ‘is modern society madness?’ and secondly, ‘how does order arise in
a society?’” MacCormac said. “The conflict in our society is due to the different purposes of the orders,” MacCormac said,
referring to the fact that economic, political, recreational, and social purposes in different “orders” produce the chaos characteristic in modern
life.

During the discussion period that followed MacCormac's lecture, Dr. Samuel D. Maloney, associate professor of Bible and Religion, said “We're
victims of our own technological progress.” MacCormac replied, “Exactly. I agree. This may say something about technological progress.”

“Not until we capture the meaning of life will we be able to re-order our lives,” MacCormac said in conclusion.

Student Council Drops Evaluation

The course evaluation forms which were used both semesters last year by many faculty members will not be provided this
year by the Student Council. After recommendations from Sam Darby and Clay Ford that the service be discontinued because it
is “relatively useless,” the council voted Monday to abandon the forms.

The council also continued discussion on the purpose of the Committee for Evaluation of Rules and Punishments and elected Mike
Carroll, Woody Faulk, and David Clemmons as non-council members of the committee.

After John Williams presented a report recommending that the evaluation forms be shortened and used again this year, Darby and
Ford argued that those professors who wanted to have their courses evaluated could provide their own forms. They said that
the student response was poor last year and that a recent survey among faculty members was inconclusive. They intimated that
much of the council's work in this area was being wasted.

After the council voted down the forms, Bill Watson recommended that a letter be sent to all faculty members explaining
in detail why the council was discontinuing the service. President Tom Earnhardt and Darby drew up the letter.

Earnhardt suggested that the committee on rules and punishment might consult several faculty members to help in preparing their report.
He recommended that the final draft of the report be presented not only to the faculty Student Discipline Committee but
also to the Board of Trustees.

Watson, chairman of the Student Body Regulations Court, recommended that a letter be sent to the court's Investigating Committee “reprimanding
them for their failure to fulfill their duties and asking them for a better job in the future.” Watson said
he has asked the committee to investigate several matters and has received no report on any of them.

STAMP IT! IT’S THE RAGE

POCKET RUBBER STAMP, 4” x 2”. Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage
or handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed.

MOPP CO.
P. O. Box 18623
Atlanta, GA.

Additional Basic Course To Aid Science Majors

Grants given by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation last spring have made possible a unified introductory course to be offered
by the science department to potential science majors. A committee charged with planning the program stated that the course would
be completed in five terms and would include the material now covered by Biology 11-12, Chemistry 15-16, and Physics 13-14.

In a report, Dr. A. A. Wolf, assistant professor of physics, said that a student “may drop the course after
the first term with no penalty if he changes his mind about majoring in science,” and that if he did
so, he would “thereby have filled a part of his natural science requirement.”

COX-MOORE

Fine Lambswool Sweaters in all the wanted colors. Get yours today — PLUS FREE MUSTANG TICKETS. Auto to be given
away Tues., Nov. 21st.

John Mack & Son
Our 55th Year — Mooresville

Three Discuss Leadership

By JIM LEE
Staff Writer

Two members of the college administration and a professor agreed that at least some potential leaders here never develop. Jim
Terry, assistant dean of students, Dr. William Hight, director of student counseling, and Dr. W. G. Workman reached a consensus
in their opinions in general, but each mentioned different peripheral matters relating to student leadership and frustration.

Terry said that he believed Davidson upperclassmen had displayed a genuine interest by effectively filling positions of leadership on campus.
He pointed out that although only a limited number of students can obtain these positions, leadership can be and isdisplayed
by other members of the student body in other ways. Terry pointed to student participation on the Blue Sky Committee,
student presentation of such events as the “Why War?" series and the “Blow-Up ‘67” programs sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon
as cases illustrating his point. Terry said that he realized that at Davidson the exceptionally capable student constituted the norm
rather than the exception. He said that instead of being frustrated by the competition, many, but not all, Davidson students
have responded to the challenge.

While a student may have been a leader in high school, he comes to Davidson and realizes that he is
in a much more competitive situation, where his performance comes under the close scrutiny of the students. The result is
the development of a “cool” attitude, Hight said. The student attempts to make acceptable grades while giving the appearance of
exerting very little effort in doing so. Hight said that all elected campus leaders do not have the ability to
lead effectively. However, a part of campus student activity is maintained by capable non-elected leaders, he said.

Workman made a clear distinction between academic and extracurricular achievement. He said that in high school there normally is a
correlation between the academically successful and those capable of assuming positions of authority. Since all Davidson students have intellectual ability,
leadership must be based on other criteria, Workman said. To many students, Workman said, learning has become a means rather
than an end—they are primarily motivated by a desire to receive recognition and reward for learning, rather than by the
desire for learning for its own sake. In respect to the development of leadership, he said that some students were
frustrated but that they probably would not exert themselves more at a less difficult college.

Program Features 3 Choirs

A three-choir concert of modern church music this evening climaxed the opening day of Davidson's eighth annual Convocation of Sacred
Music. The concert, held this evening in the college church, featured members of the Trinity Presbyterian Church choir of Charlotte,
the Queens College Choir, and the Davidson Male Chorus. Directing the group was Alec Wyton, past president of the American
Guild of Organists. His anthem, “The Vision of Isaiah,” was one of the presentations in the concert. The convocation will
continue tomorrow morning with a workshop on “New Ideas in Church Music,” to be led by Wyton. This will include
a reading through of new works and a discussion of electronic music, serial music, and other modern techniques with recorded
examples.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

FOOTBALL FOR SHUT-INS

At next Saturday’s football game while you are sitting in your choice student’s seat behind the end zone, won't you
pause and give a thought to football's greatest and, alas, most neglected name? I refer, of course, to Champert Sigafoos.

Champert Sigafoos (1714-1928) started life humbly on a farm near Thud, Kansas. His mother and father, both named Walter, were
bean-gleaners, and Champert became a bean-gleaner too. But he tired of the work and went to Montana where he got
a job with a logging firm. Here the erstwhile bean-gleaner worked as a stump-thumper. After a month he went to
North Dakota where he tended the furnace in a granary (wheat-heater). Then he drifted to Texas where he tidied up
oil fields (pipe-wiper). Then to Arizona where he strung dried fruit (fig-rigger). Then to Kentucky where he fed horses at
a breeding farm (oat-toter). Then to Long Island where he dressed poultry (duck-plucker). Then to Alaska where he drove a
delivery van for a bakery (bread-sledder). Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen lakes (ice-slicer). Then to Nevada where
he determined the odds in a gambling house (dice-pricer). Then to Milwaukee where he pasted camera lenses together (Zeiss-splicer). Finally,
he went to Omaha where he got a job in a tannery, beating pig hides until they were soft and
supple (hog-flogger).

Here occurred the event that changed not only Champert’s life, but all of ours. Next door to Champert's hog-floggery was
a mooring mast for dirigibles. In flew a dirigible one day, piloted by a girl named Graffa von Zeppelin. Champert
watched Graffa descend from the dirigible, and his heart turned over, and he knew love. Though Graffa’s beauty was not
quite perfect—one of her legs was shorter than the other (blimp-gimper)—she was nonetheless ravishing, what with her tawny hair and
her eyes of Lake Louise blue and her marvelously articulated haunches. Champert, smitten, ran quickly back to the hog-floggery to
plan the wooing. To begin with, naturally, he would give Graffa a present. This presented problems, for hog-flogging, as we
all know, is a signally underpaid profession. Still, thought Champert, if he had no money, there were two things he
did have: ingenuity and pigskin. So he selected several high-grade pelts and stitched them together and blew air into them
and made for Graffa a perfectly darling little replica of a dirigible.

“She will love this,” said he confidently to himself and proceeded to make ready to call on Graffa. First, of
course, he shaved with Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. And wouldn't you? If you were looking to impress a girl,
if you wanted jowls as smooth as ivory, dewlaps like damask, a chin strokable, cheeks fondlesome, upper lip kissable, would
you not use the blade that whisks away whiskers quickly and slickly, tuglessly and nicklessly, scratchlessly and matchlessly? Would you
not, in short, choose Personna, available both in Injector style and double-edge style? Of course you would. So Champert, his
face a study in epidermal elegance, rushed next door with his little pigskin dirigible. But Graffa, alas, had run off,
alas, with a bush pilot who specialized in dropping limes to scurvy-ridden Eskimo villages (parachuter). Champert, enraged, started kicking his
little pigskin blimp all over the place. And who should walk by just then but Jim Thorpe, Knute Rockne, Walter
Camp, and Pete Rozelle! They walked silently, heads down, four disconsolate men. For weeks they had been trying to invent
football, but they couldn’t seem to find the right kind of ball. They tried everything—hockey pucks, badminton birds, bowling balls,
quoits—but nothing worked. Now seeing Champert kicking his pigskin spheroid, their faces lit up and as one man they hollered
“Eureka!” The rest is history.

Speaking of kicks, if you've got any about your present shave cream, try Burma-Shave, regular or menthol.
