Gresham Reveals Statements Favoring Liquor On Campus
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

Senior John Gresham, a member of the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life, revealed a number of favorable statements toward the idea of a wet campus in a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week. Gresham, along with other members of the subcommittee, interviewed Assistant Dean of Students Robert Ward of Amherst College and Dean of the College Leroy Greason of Bowdoin College several weeks ago. Gresham also talked by telephone with Assistant Dean of Students Joseph Wilson of Duke University. All three of the institutions have so-called “wet” campuses. The Amherst and Bowdoin campuses have been wet for some 30-40 years, Gresham indicated. Amherst still retains a rule against consuming alcoholic beverages at official college-sponsored functions.

A new rule permitting consumption of alcohol within dormitories and fraternity houses went into effect at Duke in the fall of 1964. The new rule does not permit drinking in public buildings or carrying drinks outdoors on the campus nor does it allow any drinking at the women’s campus. Both Ward and Greason failed to see drinking as an issue on their campuses. It had been permitted for such a length of time that they considered the situation as “the way things operated,” Gresham stated. They admitted that some problems arose, he commented, but there was “no real abuse.”

Gresham further pointed out that both institutions were skirting state laws which allowed no drinking until age 21. The two deans seemed to feel that the colleges were tacitly encouraging students to drink on campus by not passing rules against it to correspond to state regulations. Both indicated, Gresham related, that Davidson had the potential for a much more realistic situation since state laws allow consumption of beer and wine at age 18.

Assistant Dean Wilson was specifically asked by Gresham if there had been any noticeable change in student conduct since the new rule went into effect. Gresham quoted Wilson’s answer as follows: “Yes, very much so. Student conduct on campus is 100 percent or more improved... this is one of our happiest rules.” Wilson further commented that there have been fewer disturbances and less damage in dormitories because the rules provide that the seriousness of an offense be compounded if alcohol is involved. Though Wilson recognized a little different situation at Davidson, Gresham stated, he was still quick to point out other advantages of the wet campus. Student expenses for parties were greatly decreased because there were a lot more on-campus parties. Many of these groups have faculty members over for cocktail parties or have them over for sherry and discussions. That has been a delightful side effect of the changes in rules, Gresham quoted Wilson as saying.

Drinking Rule Changes: No Damage
Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories at Davidson, was questioned this week as to whether there had been any increase in damage to the dormitories since abolition of the student rule against drinking last spring. “I honestly don’t think so,” Mrs. Nicholls replied. There might have been a slight increase in damage, she later indicated, but she said that a correlation between abolition of the rule and the increase in damage, if there was any, could not be made. She did note, however, that there “seems to be less of a sense of responsibility.” She was especially concerned about an increased amount of burning done by students and the increased danger of serious fires caused by students tampering with fire extinguishers.

NO CORRELATION
May 5, 1967
Page Three

Voitures Suivront Circuit Du Rallye
Plans for tomorrow's road rally with instructions in French (Staff Photo by Olson)

ON WITH RULE
Mrs. Nicholls Appraises Dorm Damage

Charter, Adviser Sought By SSOC
Students forming a chapter of the Southern Student Organizing Committee on campus are seeking a faculty adviser and plan to secure a charter from the Student Council, according to Frank Goldsmith, chairman of the group. SSOC is a southern student activist group. Its activities have been primarily in the fields of civil rights and labor. The Student Tutorial Education Project and SSOC are independent organizations, STEP co-chairman Jordie Lang emphasized. STEP does not necessarily support SSOC.

The stated goals of the organization include:
—"Accomplishment of a completely integrated society, and the rise of full and equal opportunity for all.
—"An end to personal poverty and deprivation.
—"An end to ‘public poverty’ which leaves us without decent housing, schools, parks, medical care, and communities.
—"A democratic society where politics poses a meaningful dialogue, and where each man has a voice in the decisions that affect men's lives.
—"A world working toward the easing of the tensions of the cold war with positive emphasis on peace and worldwide understanding.
—"An end to man’s inhumanity to man.”

The preamble to the SSOC constitution states that SSOC is a distinctly Southern movement, and that the South possesses valuable traditions, in both

LOOKING A GIFT HORSE IN THE MOUTH
Senior gift to the college, a mural painted by senior Herb Jackson. The price for the piece of art which covers one wall of the College Union is $500. The seniors hoped to pay Jackson for his creation by raffling a gift certificate to a local men’s store this morning. The mural has stimulated controversy over its artistic merit although the feeling toward it seems to be warming as students get used to it. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Representative Discusses Republican Strength In '68
The Honorable R. K. Ingle, a member of the North Carolina House of Representatives, was the guest speaker at Wednesday's meeting of the Young Republicans Club. Ingle is a representative from Forsyth County, Winston-Salem, North Carolina. His talk centered around two topics: the major issues that have faced the state legislature during the past year and the prospects for the North Carolina Republican party in the 1968 state elections.

Cited as the chief concerns of the legislature were education, the brown-bagging law, and the East Carolina College problem. In education, Ingle said the problem is that North Carolina is facing a shortage of teachers. He did not view brown-bagging as a partisan issue. Rather, he saw it as a factor determined mainly by the nature of local counties. He thought the ECC question to be a very difficult one for any politician to handle.

Looking ahead to 1968, Ingle foresaw a real opportunity for the Republican party to make significant gains on a statewide basis. “The Republican party in North Carolina has a real solidarity and is greatly concerned about the interests of the state,” he said. He expressed the view that the Democrats have been worried over the past year and have consequently had to organize under a majority leader for the first time in a long while. Ingle felt that the Republican party has now become the action

Union Films Committee To Offer Swedish Film
The film “One Summer of Happiness” will be presented by the Union Fine Films Committee next week. “This is a good film which can be enjoyed merely as entertainment although it has more for those who want it,” said Joe Jones, chairman of the Fine Films Committee. It will be shown Thursday at 8:15 p.m. The Swedish film is a love story which has won the Grand Prix of the Cannes Film Festival and Special Award of the Berlin Film Festival, Jones said.

Speaking of the films being planned for the continuance of the program next fall, Jones said, “The success and quality of our program will largely depend on the student interest.” He explained that five films will be shown next fall. Tickets will be available on a season basis at reduced rate. The admission for “One Summer” will be 75 cents. The program will aim at international representation inthe films it will show, according to Jones. His committee will seek films of universal appeal as well as artistic merit. party in North Carolina while the Democrats have become the reactionists. He observed that during the past year Republicans have frequently introduced bills that have been killed in one way or the other by the Democrats. The ideas in these bills, noted Ingle, have subsequently been picked up by the Democrats and reintroduced in their own bills, many of which have been passed. Thus, he said, the Democrats seem to be reacting to Republican initiative. According to Ingle, Republicans are really going to have to “do their homework” because of the strong opposition offered by the Democratic party. The YRC appointed the following committee chairmen: Roger Duvall, Campaign Committee; Robert Bryan, Program Committee; Charlie Sandlin, Membership Committee; and Joe Beard, Publicity Committee. These chairmen will make any necessary committee appointments in the near future. Dr. James Martin was once again voted as the club's advisor. A resolution backing Governor Ronald Reagan of California for the 1968 Republican party’s candidate for the Presidency was sent to committee.

Gurley Art Lovers Buy Students’ Paintings

More than $500 worth of paintings changed hands Friday as art lovers got the opportunity to buy “good art cheap and bad art cheaper” at the annual College Union art auction in the College Union. The art auction was one event in the Fine Arts Festival held here last weekend. Herb Jackson, a senior fine arts major, termed the event a great success. It certainly was for Jackson, in any event, for he made more money than any of the other artists whose works were auctioned. According to Jackson, a large percentage of the paintings were sold. The highest price paid went for Ken Autry’s “Three in Sitting,” which sold for $41.

ESSO MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS PHONE 892-9304

Gas up for the weekend and play Tigerino and win like Mrs. Janice Holl, a $100 winner.

THE CELLAR OPEN NIGHTLY BANDS — WED., Show ID Cards 300 E. Morehead St. Charlotte FRI., SAT., SUN. Never Over $1.00 Cover Behind Conder Sede Shop

strike - black and white cultures, which will enable southerners to make a unique contribution to a truly democratic America." Several Davidson students will attend a statewide conference this weekend at Buckeye Cove concerning SSOC organization and considering proposals for action. This will be the first SSOC chapter in North Carolina. There is an affiliated group at UNC. Lynn Wells of Greensboro and Ann Schunior, state SSOC coordinators, have met with the Davidson group.

“Unfair labor practices” are three representatives of the Textile Workers Union Of America (TWUA) said at an Open End Monday night. They cited instances in which the management of the mills has refused to allow the check off and further have refused to bargain in good faith. Several Davidson students have joined workers on the picket lines at the Cone Mills Salisbury plant for the one week which began Sunday night. Approximately 70 percent of the workers are staying out of the plant for the strike. “The right of unions to exist under legal protection is firmly established in the States," Peter Brandon, state TWUA coordinator, told the 20 students in attendance. “The unfair practices of Cone Mills are clearly violations of the law. Cone has made the ‘business decision’ to fight in the courts rather than deal with the union.” TWUA staff representative Jim Renfroe explained several of the practices which the workers are protesting, including the “stretch out,” where personnel are discharged and work loads are increased. He described efforts at filing grievances with the National Labor Relations Board and the extent of litigation with Cone Mills. P. H. Crooks, president of the TWUA local at the Cone Salisbury plant and a textile worker there, told about working conditions inside the plant where the workers are seeking improvement. “The heat is tremendous in parts of the plant,” he said, “It is 120 degrees at times. The company could do something about this, but it won't.” One student stated that the owners of the company had put their capital and work into the company and that they should be able to do whatever they wanted to with the company. “They can do what they want to with the company,” Brandon replied. “But they do not own the people who work there. These people have the right to bargain collectively with their employer. They also have the right to withhold their labor if their employer will not recognize their rights.”

PROFESSIONAL PILOT TRAINING IN JUST 17 WEEKS

Be ready for Airline or Commercial Employment. Commercial - Instrument - Multi Engine-Instructor * FAA approved Flight & Ground School * Individual personal attention * All new equipment and facilities * Write for free brochure * Financing available AVIATION ACADEMY OF NORTH CAROLINA, INC. Raleigh-Durham Airport 919-833-6656 — Box 200 Morrisville, North Carolina 27560

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone 332-2414

SUMMER WORK STUDENTS - TEACHERS

Full time work June, July, August. Part-time work available rest of year with established international company. No investment. Highly sophisticated, dignified product, known throughout the world. Enjoy Your Summer And Earn — Over $200 Weekly — For personal interview call Mr. Marrafy at 377-4973 or 377-4974, Charlotte, N. C.

DACRON® AND WORSTED SPORT JACKET in cultured colors and patterns

College Hall has added culture to the classic colors and patterns. In new Dacron® and Worsted lightweight, wrinkle resistant, three button authentic traditional sport jackets for men of all ages. In the collection: Plaids, Stripes, Checks and Solids to take you about town and country, DACRON® AND WORSTED $49

RUSH WILSON, LTD. DAVIDSON, N.C.

Explains His Activities

right to withhold their labor if their employer will not recognize their rights.”