ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT

With this one shot, THE DAVIDSONIAN pays its tribute to the sun with its annual sunbathing picture. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Pledge Programs Completed As Greek Week Approaches
By BRUCE WEIHE
Staff Writer

Pledge programs of the 12 Davidson fraternities are now drawing to a close, 2 months after the freshmen were engulfed by brotherhood. One of the more basic trends of the pledge programs over the past few years has been away from hazing. This, together with a few service projects and discussions, has marked a rather unexciting period of pledgeship.

SAE pledge trainer Ed Armfield stated that his fraternity aimed to “get completely away from the hazing aspect and aim to establish a stronger relationship between the brother and pledge through other activities.” This same attitude was voiced by Ben King of Kappa Sigma, who said that “initiation into the fraternity, and a policy definitely against hazing are being stressed.” King also mentioned that Kappa Sigma is on probation for a hazing violation last year.

Several pledge classes have already undertaken some service projects during the semester, while others have planned projects for Greek Week. Jim Reinoehl, pledge trainer of Sigma Phi Epsilon, said that the Sig Ep pledges had collected for the Heart Fund on Heart Sunday (Feb. 18) and are planning on working later at the Alexander Home in Charlotte. “We've tried to stress that the fraternity is not only a social organization but also should have an integral function as an aid to the college and community.”

Sigma Chi pledges have had projects aiming to serve the community during the semester. They raised over $160 working at various businesses in Mooresville in a special Orphan’s Scholarship Program. This money will be used to aid a student from Barium Springs with college expenses. Pledge trainer Clay Ford said that “the pledge program was aimed at giving each pledge ample opportunity to develop in all four phases of college life: intellectual, physical, spiritual, and social. Any activities the pledges participated in were not things they had to do for the sake of doing something, but were worthwhile projects.”

Jim Timmons of the Betas, whose pledges have visited the children at the Gastonia Orthopedic Hospital several times, felt that everyone, pledge and active alike, has his own idea of what the pledge program should accomplish and therefore saw no general purpose. “Some think it's pretty worthwhile, but others think it is meaningless.”

Most of the other fraternities limited their pledge programs to discussions on fraternity and campus issues, and stimulating pledge unity and spirit. Bill Oelrich of the Sigma Nu’s reported that they had held discussions on the relative values of the ball system and planned one on next year's rush system. Oelrich said that the pledges took an active part in the discussion, which serves to adapt the pledges to the fraternity more easily.

The Pikas and Pi Kapps also stressed constructive pledge programs, aiming to have the pledges better understand the workings of the fraternity and to know the members themselves. Don Carrell, Pika pledge trainer, said they had a series of discussions taking a “critical look at the pros and cons of the fraternity system.” Pi Kapp Bill Walker said that his pledges will be expected to carry out a service project during Greek Week.

The KA pledges under Pinky Hatcher as pledge trainer have also benefited from a program stressing unity and preparation for brotherhood. “They should do things together and not just be together,” Hatcher remarked, “and be active not only in the fraternity but all over campus.”

Phi Gamma Delta pledge trainer Tod Horne said that his pledges have been working on fraternity committees which have made them better understand the fraternity itself. Cecil Harrell Clifton of the ATO’s reported that the pledges have taken part in a discussion of “The Problems of Communication” led by Will Terry.

The fraternity members themselves have been largely left out of the pledge program. One member said that “a big problem with the pledges is that we don't know what they're doing. The only ones who know are the pledges themselves and the pledge trainers.”

Davidsonian Fete Slated Tuesday

The annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet will be held at 6:30 p.m. on April 13 in the Wildcat Room of the College Union. J. A. C. Dunn, a reporter for The Charlotte Observer who has recently returned from Vietnam, will be the featured speaker. His topic will be the mechanics of news coverage in Vietnam. Every member of last year's staff has been invited to attend. The O. Grier Martin Award, annually presented to the outstanding beginning reporter, will be made at the banquet.

Stresses Need For Alcohol Discussion

“Much will be known in the next few weeks as to how we are going to deal with the alcohol problem,” said Rick Harrell, a leader of the Presbyterian Church committee which sponsored the Alcohol Forum last week. Harrell stressed a need for a solid understanding on the part of the students and faculty. He said, “The next step will be a deeper discussion in smaller groups. The forum has served its purpose. Now we must be educated more thoroughly to the problem.

“The purpose of the forum,” he continued, “was to awaken and to educate the community to the problem. The forum was presented as an honest approach to all aspects of the problem. I think it did a good job in accomplishing these things.”

Harrell stressed that the purpose of the Presbyterian Church was only to awaken the community, not to find a solution. Now it is up to the students to continue. He said that the church will probably sponsor small discussions. He thought there would soon be a request for a student poll and that such a move might be made through the Student Planning Committee if enough interest is shown. “This is necessary to inform the faculty about the students’ beliefs,” he continued.

“There is a general dissatisfaction with the alcohol situation as it now stands,” Harrell went on. “Nobody would dispute that the general desire of the students is for a liberalizing of policy, however individuals may define ‘liberal.’”

Harrell saw a great deal of interest among the freshmen especially. He hinted that they might be instrumental in bringing about a solution. “Several faculty members showed aLot of interest in the problem,” he said. He declined to name them but pointed out that these professors were n- [FC Banquet, Regatta, Field Day Next Week. Plans for Greek Week were the major topics discussed at both the Interfraternity Council meeting and the pledge trainers’ meeting. 

To Challenge Concepts Of Business

Charlotte businessmen are going to give Davidson students a chance to challenge the basic concepts of the marketplace in panel discussions to be held in Charlotte on April 28. Dr. E. F. Patterson will join the president of Springs Cotton Mills, three other businessmen, and instructors from Queens, Johnson C. Smith University, and UNCC for two panels that will examine topics such as the ethics of business, the relationship between business and government, and labor relations. The Higher Education Committee of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce is presenting the morning program and luncheon in an effort to integrate the four area colleges into the larger Charlotte community. 

Student Body President Tom Worship Service Sets Moravian Love Feast

The Moravian Love Feast will be held at the Voluntary Worship Service in Lingle Chapel from 5:30-6:30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 19, according to Sam Woodmansee, college chaplain. The Rev. Henry May from the Moravian Church of Park Road in Charlotte and several members of his congregation will present the program. At the Love Feast, coffee and Moravian buns will be served. “This is not a sacrament, however,” said Woodmansee. “They feel that eating together emphasizes the importance of the fellowship of Christians.” The Wednesday night service, sponsored by the YMCA, is a program in experimental forms of worship. Earnhardt, who helped plan the program, commented, “This will be an excellent opportunity for those students who protested the labor policies of a southern textile mill last week to actually confront the president of such a company.” Pete Gilchrist, who is coordinating the program for the chamber, has requested that interested students sign up at the College Union by April 18 so final arrangements can be made at the White House Inn.

At the pledge trainers’ meeting Wednesday, it was announced that Greek Week will officially begin at 5:30 p.m. Monday with a steak dinner on the lawn near Chambers. A highlight of the week will be the field day on Friday, followed by the traditional regatta on Lake Norman on Saturday. Under the rules set up by the IFC, fraternities are now allowed to spend more than $10 for their boats for the regatta. The representatives voted to have all activity end at 10 p.m. each day. At the IFC meeting Tuesday night, the council adopted for Greek Week the same rules that were in effect last year. Rules state that all activity must be of a “constructive nature.” In other business, John Lambert of Sigma Nu was elected as the Social Council representative for the IFC.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING PIZZA and BEST SPAGHETTI

Among other participants in the forum, “Many students desire more rights, but we must see whether they will show the responsibility necessary for a liberalization of rules,” Harrell said. He thinks that the students’ sense of responsibility will be an important factor in the resolution of the drinking problems.

The Davidsonian April 14, 1967 Page Three

Holy Angels Nursery To Get YMCA Gift

Davidson students voted to donate this year's annual YMCA Gift Fund to the Holy Angels Nursery Home in Belmont, for the care of retarded children rejected by their parents. Three choices for receiving the $1200 collected this year were presented in chapel Tuesday. Kay Gary of Charlotte described the work of the nuns at Holy Angels since the home's beginning 11 years ago. No diocesan or foundation funds support this organization and with the backlog of demand, the need for financial support is urgent. 

For the fourth time in the last five years, Davidson has won a plaque for having the highest percentage of contributors in the Red Cross Blood Drive.

Williams To Present Solo Trumpet Recital

Dr. Grier Williams, associate professor of music, will present a trumpet recital on Sunday at 4 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The recital will be a program of music for piano, trumpet, and strings. First on the program will be two baroque works showing the contrast of timbres of instruments. One will be a sonata by Purcell for trumpet and strings; the other a concerto for trumpet, two oboes, and strings. Also on the program will be a modern work for trumpet and piano, “Legende” by Enesco. Other compositions—including works by Mozart, Bitsch, and Hindemith—will be presented later in the program. Appearing in the recital with Dr. Williams will be string and reed accompanists, Mrs. Anita Bultman, a pianist from Charlotte, and Steve Barden performing on the oboe.

Gurley’s ESSO Main and South Streets Phone 892-9304 GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND AND PLAY TIGERINO FOR CASH!

If she doesn't give it to you... —get it yourself JADE EAST

Colognes, 6 oz., $4.50 After Shave, 6 oz., $2.50 Deodorant Stick, $1.75

The Piedmont Carolinas Red Cross Blood Drive Committee has awarded the plaque to Davidson every year but one since 1963. In 1965, Mitchell College in Statesville won the award. The organization which wins the award for five years can retire from competition. Davidson’s contribution has annually been around 66 percent.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristorante BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristorante Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Solids. Stripes and window panes! Meticulously tailored in the typical Gant tradition. From $7.50

NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS DOWNTOWN — THIRD FLOOR COTSWOLD SHOPPING CENTER. WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER