March 17, 1967 Page Four

She Davidsanian

Lawing Characterizes Idea Of Holy Spirit

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Illustrating with a personal experience, he said that the Holy Spirit is like the next-door neighbor who stayed with him
as a little child when his parents had to leave suddenly. Again, he compared the Holy Spirit to the provision
made for loved ones through life insurance. The Holy Spirit would, “in a sense, continue a broken relationship.” It is
in this sense of relationship, according to Lawing, that the Holy Spirit is meaningful, for he continues a broken relationship
between God and man.

Making fun of the “private eye” idea, he criticized those who “make man a fugitive,” constantly running from the all-seeing
pursuer, the Holy Spirit. Others, he said, think of the Spirit as “the benevolent ghost of ‘Christmas Present,’ although with
much less character. The spiritual manifestation of the Great Society, he winks at our sinfulness and pronounces judgment with tongue
in cheek,” Lawing continued.

What the Holy Spirit really does, said Lawing, is to “proclaim the reality of God's action toward us.” Most people
think of the Holy Spirit as either “the great private eye in the sky” or as “Casper, the friendly ghost,”
said the Rev. L. H. Lawing in chapel Monday. “If the Holy Spirit is as crucial as we are told,”
said Lawing, Brevard College dean of men, then why is it that “we feel no particular need for the Holy
Spirit?” Explaining that what Job needed was the Holy Spirit to enter into a relationship with God, rather than a
face-to-face encounter with God himself, Lawing went on to characterize two common misconceptions about the Holy Spirit.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

Text Of Proposals To Be Presented

Dear President Martin:

The report which is contained herein is being turned in to you as a letter in order that it might
receive your utmost personal attention. We, the undersigned, are a group of students who are vitally concerned with the present
state and future welfare of Davidson College and are convinced that we must express our concern in order that you
and other members of the administration, trustees, and faculty may be moved to action.

Our report is not meant to be comprehensive, but it is meant to be representative. We have purposefully not dealt
directly with matters pertaining to the library, the faculty, or fraternities, as we think these areas have received adequate attention
elsewhere. Moreover, we realize that other committees have said and will say what is said here, but we think it
is important that a wholly-student-oriented group make some independent recommendations. The report attempts to deal with current policy and practice
and to make critical and constructive recommendations for minimal improvement. These are the absolute minimum steps which the college must
take in order to face the future adequately and to maintain our educational standing in an increasingly complex world.

You should also know that while each of us might place our personal emphasis more on some aspects of this
report than others, we all agree, in principle, with the whole report. Thus, urging your immediate attention to the matters
considered herein, we present our report:

ACADEMICS

The quality of the present academic program at Davidson must be improved in several areas: the social sciences, the arts,
addition of a work-study program, course presentation, and the intellectual atmosphere of the program generally.

1. Davidson needs a bolstering of the role that the social sciences play in the education of a Davidson student
by:
a. Hiring more political science and sociology professors, since these are the most understaffed social science departments.
b. Creation of an interdisciplinary social sciences course similar in mechanics to the Humanities program.

2. Davidson offers no major in drama, and its two-man Fine Arts Department cannot offer a comprehensive program in painting,
sculpture, and graphics. We need a teaching staff of at least two art historians, each with a specialty in another
art discipline, one instructor in studio, in charge of sculpture and painting, and a fourth instructor, maybe a visiting professor,
for specific duties. An art gallery would add a greater interest to the arts program; the College Union building should
be used for such a gallery and for all the visual arts, thus leaving more room in Hodson Hall for
the performing arts. A writer's and a painter's residence program are greatly needed; they may stimulate more interest in creativity
on campus and spread this creative spirit to other academic disciplines.

3. Experience with and understanding of the world outside the college and the development of a sense of independence and
self-confidence are important aspects of a liberal education. The highly structured pattern of education at Davidson and the isolation from
the non-academic world often hinder student growth in these areas. The college must create a “work-study” or “cooperative education” program.
Under such a plan, a student would be allowed to work off-campus at jobs for extended periods of time (usually
six months or longer) while officially enrolled in the college. It should emphasize the value of involvement with a community
quite different from the student’s home background and the personal growth of the student through such contact. The return of
these students to campus should add new dimensions to discussions and can help prevent the stagnation of the academic community.

4. The traditional course must gauge the size of its enrollment according to its scope. Lecture courses should be unlimited
as to size. The size of discussion courses should approximate the “professor-student ratio.” There must be articulate delineation of course
scope. More extensive use should be made of syllabus and bibliography handouts. Emphasis should be on methodology rather than on
description. Professors should present their bias directly.

5. Davidson has a notable lack of cultural and intellectual events. The entire “educational system” must be reevaluated. There must
be considerable stimulation: artists in residence, more visiting lecturers, more informal student-professor gatherings such as the current “stimulus discussions,” and
more cultural events. There must be a revision of the present teaching and grading methods, which require a student to
devote too much time in “busy work” thus detracting from his extra time for cultural events. A student should not
be punished but rewarded for his intellectual interests outside class. The faculty and administration should respect the maturity of the
students and concentrate their efforts in helping them to grow intellectually.

ADMINISTRATION

It is our conviction that Davidson must be steered into its future; it must not drift. We feel that there
is a definite present need for more dynamic, personal leadership on the campus, and to this end, we recommend the
following revisions in administrative policy and composition:

1. In general, we believe that there should be a more effective promotion of dialogue between top positions in the
administration and the students. The administration should be more responsive to the power of its offices and should provide the
impetus for change. Areas of responsibility should be more carefully defined. The present state of affairs effectively allows administration figures
to pass the buck, thereby preserving the status quo without assuming responsibility. There is an overwhelming need for some diversity
of opinion and orientation in the administration. There should be at least as many non-Davidson graduates as Davidson graduates in
the administration. We are overly inbred.

2. The college needs another full-time, professional administrative officer to fill the position of Provost. Such a person should be
able to fill the vacuum in educational leadership created by the present overload on the President and on the Dean
of the Faculty. Such a person should be able to mediate between the faculty and the administration and communicate with
the student body, perhaps in a weekly assembly for questions and answers. He should be someone with whom students could
personally identify. We suggest that he be a non-Davidson graduate.

3. There is an immediate need to centralize all non-academic and non-athletic aspects of a student's affairs in the Dean
of Students Office. The Dean should be able to formulate and enforce all non-major administrative policy regarding students. He should
be able to maintain a high degree of rapport with students.

4. The principal aim of the Office of Admissions should be to constantly strive to increase the heterogeneity of the
student body by bringing to matriculation a larger number of persons of differing racial, geographic, and socio-economic backgrounds than those
presently enrolled. There should be a large enough number of these persons so that they do not feel isolated in
the student body. In order to implement this heterogeneity, we suggest personnel

B. A. AIKEN
HOBS ALLAN
COTTEN ALSTON
KEM ANDERSON
BILL ANDREWS
ED ARMFIELD
JOHN BAILEY
FRANK BASS
MIKE BATES
WESTRAY BATTLE
KARL BECK
DAVID BELL
CHIP BELLAMY
HUCK BERRY
RALPH BLAKELY
SAM BOYTE
TOM BROWN
STEVE BRUCE
SUMNER BULLARD
CECIL CLIFTON
GUS COCHRAN
DAVID COFFEY
WAYNE CRUMWELL
SAM DARBY
BILL DOGGETT
BOB DUGGER
ROGER DUTTWEILER
EDWARD DWELLE
TOM EARNHARDT
BILL FARR
JULIAN FITE
TOM FRIST
DIRK GALBRAITH
FRANK GOLDSMITH
JOHNNY GRESHAM
BUZZ HARDIN
W. KEN HAYES
NAT HEYWARD
LOU HILL
STEVE HUMPHREY
HERB JACKSON
JACK JACKSONIn the Admissions Office be increased so that one staff member may be regularly traveling on recruiting trips all
over the country, in much the same way the Athletic Department recruits.

ATHLETICS

In recent months Davidson's Athletic Department has received a great deal of varied criticism. We are here attempting to consolidate
this criticism so that members of the administration, faculty, and Athletic Department may know the causes of student dissatisfaction and
the general form of the solutions we desire.

1. The athletic program neither answers nor seeks to answer the needs of the student body as a whole. Instead,
the facilities, financial resources, and coaching staff are devoted to an entirely too small minority of the student body. Little
or no instruction at all is offered in non-varsity sports. Instruction and facilities should be made available on a regular
basis in a wide variety of athletic activities, especially in those sports which may be participated in after graduation, such
as golf, squash, tennis, and water sports. The Athletic Department should provide a physical education program for all students, not
an athletic program geared primarily to the needs of a few varsity athletes.

2. We are opposed to allowing the Athletic Department the prerogative of designating the recipients of financial aid. All forms
of financial aid must be awarded through the regular scholarship program. Outstanding athletic ability should be regarded as an attribute
which better qualifies an individual for acceptance into Davidson but not as the sole justification for financial aid. The practice
of awarding athletic scholarships, without consideration of need, must be stopped. We maintain that Davidson cannot afford to buy prospective
athletes, suitably train them, and still provide an athletic program which serves the needs of the entire student body. The
practice of recruiting what are, in fact, professional athletic teams prevents the Athletic Department from serving the majority of the
student body and is not congruent with the essential purpose of Davidson College.

3. Although in the past athletic publicity has enabled many people to learn of the college and its educational program,
at present the excessive publicity is harmful because it puts pressure on the college to produce better athletics rather than
better education.

4. The Athletic Department must be considered as any other academic department, including being under the jurisdiction of the faculty.
It should become a more integral part of the school and have its major expenditures reviewed by all concerned. The
faculty should be made aware of the activities and potentialities of the Athletic Department.

STUDENT LIFE

The social situation of the Davidson student needs reform. Our immediate concern is in four areas: dormitory life, a coordinate
college for women, counseling, and the College Union facilities.

1. The student attitude is affected by living quarters. The dorms, our homes for most of four years, have inherent
in their design and fixtures no other purpose than "the storage of students when not in use." To make dormitory
life more tolerable we need:
a. New dorms to replace Watts, Cannon, and East.
b. Interior alterations in the remaining dorms to provide suites, lounges, and hall kitchens.
c. Room furnishings of some style other than "late Salvation Army." The "chicken coop" design is not beneficial, and myriad
other schools have rejected it with good results.

2. A coordinate college for women should be established at Davidson. The presence of women would educate the Davidson man
whose present treatment of women is often impolite, though mannered, impersonal, and, unfortunately, sometimes cruel. Women should be an integral
part of life, not an extracurriculum. Until this college can be established, regular visiting hours during which women would be
allowed in the dorms must be instituted.

3. The counseling office needs men and money. It needs an increased budget for counseling, two or three additional trained
counselors without teaching loads, and a full-time clinical psychologist.

4. We need a new College Union with expanded facilities and a more creative outlook. Specific needs are:
a. Suitably furnished, semi-private student lounges for entertainment of women.
b. Separate reading rooms, projection rooms, seminar rooms, and lecture rooms.
c. A dining room large enough to facilitate dinner theaters and after-dinner dances.
d. A Rathskeller in the dining room for the service of beer and wine.
e. Provision of living quarters for visiting scholars and other visitors.

THE REV. L. H. LAWING
STUDENTS SIGNING REPORT:
JOHN McGUIRE
DUNCAN McRAE
WAYNE MANGUM
RICHARD MARTIN
LYN MONTAGUE
MIKE NORRIS
JOE OBENSHAIN
JULIAN PROSSER
BEN REEVES
HARRY CARR
WAYNE RHODES
DON CARROLL
DE RODGERS
ANDY CLAY
JIM ROSTAN
CHARLES SKINNER
SAM SMITH
PHIL JONES
JORDIE LANG
LOUIS LESESNE
DON LESLIE
DAVID LEWIS
JOHN LIIPFERT
CHUCK MATTHEWS
PAT MULLEN
WILL NORMAN
GEORGES NZONGOLA
TIM ROTHERMEL
KEN SCOTT
BILL SEIGLER
JIM SHACKLEFORD
GEORGE B. SHAW
FRANK SHEPARD
ART SLAUGHTER
MARVIN SPARROW
CHARLIE STEEL
DAN SWEET
TOM THEL
BOB TRAVERS
JAMES TURNER
CHARLIE VICK
CHIP VOGAN
SKIP WAITE
BILL WATSON
CARY WHITE
JIMMY WHITE
JIM WILSON
CECIL WOOTEN

College Ranks High With Med Schools

Davidson College ranks No. 1 in the Southeast in percentage of applicants accepted by the nation’s medical schools, a recent
survey indicates. According to information published by the Association of American Medical Colleges, 70.6 percent of the Davidson students and
graduates who applied to medical schools were accepted. This means Davidson ranks No. 7 nationally. Rice University was highest with
85.1 percent. Duke University was scored at 59.2 percent, followed by Emory University with 54.7. The survey was based on
the total number of applicants in 1964-65. The percentage of acceptance for present Davidson seniors is higher than 70.6 percent,
noted Dr. W. O. Puckett, chairman of the Biology Department.

Poet Declines Offer For Artist Residency

Davidson's attempt to get an artist in residence for next year has failed. Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston revealed that
poet Donald Davidson had been asked to come to the Davidson campus next year, but that he has declined because
of problems concerning his health and schedule. Davidson, professor emeritus at Vanderbilt, was associated with the Fugitive group of poets
during the 1920s. This group of Southern-oriented poets included Davidson, John Crowe Ransom, Allen Tate, and Robert Penn Warren, among
others.

"This is not a new idea around here," said Johnston. "If funds are available in the future we would like
very much to have an artist in residence. We have requested funds for this purpose several times in the past,
but we have never been able to receive these contributions."

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
MAIN ST.
Davidson, N. C.

With Spring Vacation almost here, RUSH WILSON, Ltd. has a fine selection of swim suits, bermudas, and short sleeve shirts
for those trips to Florida and the Bahamas. Come in today and take your pick of solids, stripes, or plaids
for your trip.

RUSH WILSON, Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.

if she doesn't give it to you... — get it yourself!
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 12 oz. $8.80
Cologne, 6 oz., $4.80
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.80
Deodorant Stick, $1.78
Spray Cologne, $3.50
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00
SWANK, NEW YORK © SOLE DISTRIBUTOR

Sunday Night Open House

The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding
open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Brinkley
Woodmansee
Stroud

Good Humor

These Colleges Had Students With Even Higher Earnings:
MICHIGAN STATE $172.18
UNIV. OF BUFFALO $147.78
ST. JOHN'S UNIVERSITY $157.96
LOLA UNIV. (CHICAGO) $148.81
UNIV. OF GEORGIA $148.81
UNIV. OF MARYLAND $218.18
UNIV. OF PENNSYLVANIA $162.50
UNIV. OF MICHIGAN $208.18
UNIV. OF FLORIDA $167.85
UNIV. OF CONNECTICUT $170.16
UNIV. OF MISSOURI $101.55
PURDUE UNIV. $120.00

No experience needed. You are fully trained and work on routes with proven high earnings. Nothing to invest... everything you
need is supplied free.

HOW TO QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW
1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver's license and be willing to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

REGISTER NOW
Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to show you Good Humor’s folder explaining the job and to
schedule you for our campus visit.

INTERVIEW MARCH 23

An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)
