‘Cats, Huskies To Pair Off In Intersectional Battle
By JAMES ROLAND
Sports Writer

The Davidson Wildcats, hoping to improve their season record of two wins against four losses, will invade the Yankee Conference tomorrow in an intersectional battle with the University of Connecticut Huskies. It is the first encounter between the two teams and will be played in Storrs, Conn.

“This is good intersectional competition,” said Davidson Coach Homer Smith. “I'm glad to see us visit other strong conferences. The Yankee Conference is one of the stronger conferences in that area. They have a lot of talent to choose from.”

Connecticut is 2-2 for the season. Their wins were over Vermont and Maine, and their losses were to Yale and Massachusetts. The Huskies rely strongly on their quarterback, Pete Petrilla, for much of their offense. He is the strongest rusher for Connecticut, Smith said, and he is an accomplished passer. “He's the key factor in their offense,” Smith added. Petrilla’s favorite target is George Crisp, a split-end who has caught 75 percent of the team’s completions.

“In comparison, they put more stress on their running attack, much more than we have in the past,” said Smith. “We have always had a strong passing offense, with Jimmy Poole, who now leads the nation in pass completions. But we need a rushing offense to complement our passing. The winning offense is always one with integrated passing and running.”

ALFONSO CARILLO LEADS ATTACK
Ecuadorian is key man in booter offense.

Poole Leads Passers In National Rankings

Davidson quarterback Jimmy Poole became the number one passer in the nation this week, according to a report released Tuesday by the NCAA's National Collegiate Sports Service. Poole has completed 102 out of 173 forward passes for a total of 1,063 yards and a .590 completion percentage. Terry Stone of New Mexico ranked second with 100 completions in 220 attempts for 1,364 yards.

Poole also ranked fifth in total offense, having executed 233 plays for 1,077 yards. Sophomore quarterback Mike Phipps of Purdue led the nation in total offense, chalking up 1,243 yards in 190 plays. He replaced Stone, last week's leader, who is second with 1,180 yards in six games.

The only other Southern Conference player to gain national ranking was East Carolina’s Butch Colson, who was ranked ninth in rushing offense. The 5-10, 197-pound sophomore has carried the ball 142 times in six games for a total of 587 yards gained. O.J. Simpson, Southern California's top ground gainer, led the nation in rushing yardage. Simpson, star-rusher on Southern California’s unbeaten, untied, top-ranked Trojans, has rolled up 987 yards in 180 carries so far this season.

For the Connecticut game, split-end George Hannen, who caught two touchdown passes against Presbyterian, has been moved to tailback to replace injured Billy Taylor. Fullback Kerry Keith, who was injured against PC, will again be at full strength, Smith said.

“Connecticut has a bigger football program than Davidson does, on the whole,” Smith said. “We have had no common opponents, but they are not considered as tough as Citadel. They should be about the same size and strength as the Richmond team. I think it will be a competitive game.”

By DOUG HAYNES
Sports Writer

Davidson’s soccer team battled two teams through overtimes this week and scored ties in both games to bring the season record to 3-1-3. Wednesday Davidson met Belmont Abbey here and fought the visitors to a 1-1 deadlock. Both teams’ offenses lagged through most of the first half. Late in the first half, the ‘Cat offense began to click, but the Abbey defense held Davidson scoreless through the first half. The ‘Cats took several shots, all of which were blocked by the Abbey’s goalie, whom Davidson Coach Harry Fogleman described as “the best I’ve ever seen.”

Then in the second half, the Abbey scored after Davidson goalie Jeff Plainer was injured. Belmont then held Davidson until the final minutes of the game, when ‘Cat forward Alfonso Carillo, a Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, scored on a penalty kick. The game ended after a scoreless double overtime.

“This is the best game we've played all year,” Fogleman said. “We had a lot of shots but their goalie was always there.” Members of the team agreed. “We were passing a lot better and had shorter and closer shots,” said inside forward Bill Horton. “Alfonso and Simon Bell (a Richardson Scholar from Great Britain) played their usual fine games. Roger Peterson helped out by beating his man around the wing several times.”

Observers gave halfback Cliff Patterson credit for sparking the Wildcat defense. Patterson, a sophomore from Chapel Hill, played aggressively during the game, making several tackles and passing well.

Last Saturday the ‘Cats traveled to Charleston, S.C., to meet the Bulldogs of The Citadel. Davidson cruised on top for most of the game, until a Bulldog forward booted in a goal in the final period to deny the ‘Cats a win. Carillo led off the scoring in the first half, booting in two goals for the ‘Cat effort. Bell then added another in the third quarter to give the ‘Cats their final point. The game ended in a 3-3 tie. Davidson tried to wear down the Bulldog team by freely substituting throughout the game.

Citadel Staves Off Passing In 28-7 Romp Over DC

The Citadel secondary stared off Davidson quarterback Jimmy Poole’s passing attack and blitzed the ‘Cat defenders with a lightning offense last Saturday to quell Davidson's hopes for victory. The score was 28-7.

Davidson's first touchdown came in the second quarter, when Poole scampered around the right side for the TD. Poole’s run capped off an 87-yard drive, which was sustained by passes to Greg Cox, Pete Glidewel, and George Hannen. Although Davidson threatened many times during the game, The Citadel's defensive secondary was able to cut off ‘Cat drives in key plays.

The Bulldogs led off the scoring late in the first quarter, when halfback Jim McMillan fired a pass to flanker Gene Hightower in the end zone. Davidson scored to tie the game up, but then The Citadel came back when halfback Jim Isaac intercepted a Poole pass at the Bulldog 41 and returned it to the ‘Cat 39. McMillan scored from the three for the Bulldogs’ second touchdown.

INTERCEPTIONS DECISIVE

State Freshmen Demolish Wildkitten Eleven, 35-12

North Carolina State's freshmen snared three ‘Kitten aerials and scored off each intercept to clobber Davidson's freshmen, 35-12, in Raleigh last Friday. After a low-scoring first half, the State defense came alive in the third quarter to put the game on ice. The Wolfpack led off the scoring with a pass play in the second quarter. Later in the quarter, the ‘Kitten offense rolled through the State defense for the first Davidson score. The TD came on a pass from halfback Bob Niebauer to end Mike Mikolayunas.

With the exception of State’s third-quarter explosion, the game was marked by rugged defensive play and short-gain runs. Both teams scored only twice in the rest of the quarters. ‘Kitten Coach Bob Brown praised Davidson's overall effort. Except for the third quarter, the ‘Kittens played well, he said, against a school whose upperclassmen are ranked fifth in both wire service polls. Brown said over-aggressiveness was one of the ‘Kittens'major problems, since the Wolfpack exploited this to fake out Davidson defensive backs. The ‘Kittens offense clicked well too, he added, especially in the fourth quarter. But Davidson was never able to shake off the bad effects of the third quarter and mount enough scoring drives. Davidson did score once in the final quarter, however. State’s freshman squad was a balanced, well-disciplined team which was skilled in both offense and defense. The Wolfpack held tenaciously against a Davidson threat in the first quarter, and again in the fourth quarter held the ‘Kittens to short gains. State was able to hold ground in key plays, such as third and fourth down plays. Davidson's best penetration came in the fourth quarter, Brown said. Brown seemed especially pleased with Davidson's defense, which held State remarkably well through most of the game. The ‘Kittens only home game will be at 2 p.m. tomorrow when Davidson meets Carolina Military Academy. The freshmen have traditionally defeated CMA, which is a prep school rather than a four-year college, like most of the ‘Kittens’ opponents. However, CMA usually has a couple of postgraduates, who are as old and experienced as the ‘Kittens, on their squad. Poole, who is now rated as the number one passer in college football, threw the pigskin 40 times for 26 completions and 266 yards. ‘Cat sophomore Gordon Slade played some during key situations, but the young quarterback completed only two of seven passes for six yards. Davidson Coach Homer Smith said he used Slade because he is harder than Poole to intercept. Davidson garnered 21 first downs to only 12 for the winners. The ‘Cats confined themselves mostly to an aerial game, gaining only 33 yards on the ground. The Citadel reversed this, passing for only 36 yards while running for 283.

BOOTERS STRUGGLE WITH ABBEY FOES

Davidson’s Roger Peterson fights for ball possession. Fogleman Battle Belmont, Citadel To 1-1 Deadlocks In Week’s Play

Davidson’s booters began the year like a ball of fire, rushing over the first three opponents by wide margins. A welcomed change from last year’s poor season, the team registered wins over Erskine, Methodist, and North Carolina Wesleyan. But as competition grew stiffer, the ‘Cats fell into a slump and have not won in the last four games. Davidson will have a chance to get back on the winning trail tomorrow when they go up against Pembroke here. The booters then face Pfeiffer there Tuesday, North Carolina State here Friday, and Duke there the following Monday.

NCAA Punt Rule Brews Cauldron Of Controversy

By ROCKY CROSSWHITE Sports Writer

The new NCAA punt rule, inaugurated this season by the association’s rules committee, has stirred up a wave of controversy among coaches throughout the nation. Many coaches believe the rule, which prohibits the five interior linemen from crossing the line of scrimmage before the ball has been punted, is detrimental to football, while others feel it livens up the game. Before this year, linemen on the kicking team were free to run downfield to cover punts as soon as the ball was snapped. Now only the backs and ends may rush the receiver before the kick. The rules committee reasoned that this change would encourage receivers to return the ball rather than signal for a fair catch.

Several coaches, including West Virginia’s Coach Jim Carlen, have criticized the new rule vehemently. In an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week, Carlen said, “I was against the rule when it was made and after five games I am even more against it.” Carlen rejected the idea that the rule makes the game more exciting. “Kicking out of bounds or in the stands can hardly be considered exciting.” Carlen also said he saw more exciting punt returns last year. “A minority changed the punt rule last year,” Carlen added, “and I certainly hope there is enough resentment against it so it is changed next year.”

But several coaches support the rule. Mary Levy, head football coach at William and Mary said, “I hope the rules committee sticks by the rule.” Levy said he believes the same coaches who want to retract the new punt rule also want to move the goal posts up to the goal line, where they are in pro leagues. “These coaches who object to this rule are offensively minded and use their objection to the rule as a smoke screen to hide their real feeling about advantages for the offense,” Levy said. The new rule will encourage the need for a good kicking game, he said, and this will be good for football.

Frank Howard, head football coach at Clemson, is not as outspoken about the rule as Carlen, but he said, “I hate to see this rule take away the chance for any glamor the offensive linemen have to be a standout for the crowd by leading the pack down the field after the ball carrier. This rule takes this away.” Howard said he feels the rule was not needed. It gives the advantage to the superior team because the inferior team ends up punting more often, he argued. “The rule makes our punt returns so inconsistent, and even though we average about ten yards a return, it doesn’t add that much to the game.” Howard said. Clemson ran back a punt for a touchdown against Georgia this season, but Auburn did the same thing to Clemson the following week.

The main objection to the rule seems to be that it causes more injuries because it gives the defensive backs a chance to double block on the few offensive men coming down the field. Carlen said two of his best players were injured in the Syracuse game on punt return plays and are out for the season. “Five men were blocking on two of our players,” he said, “and one boy received a severe concussion while another had his left arm broken.” Levy said he has not seen any evidence of increased injury due to this new rule. “Clemson has been lucky,” Howard said. “So far we haven't had any injuries on the punt returns.”

GET YOUR EVENING SNACK at the NEW WILDCAT DEN! We specialize in PIZZAS, DELICATESSEN FOOD, and FRIED CHICKEN, with our special APPLE CIDER to wash it down. All of this in the restful atmosphere of the Den!! For those who are unable to come over, we will have dorm delivery, as long as your order is in BEFORE 11 p.m. (There will be only one delivery per night, at first). For dorm delivery, there will be a $0.25 service charge.

“SEE YOU AT THE DEN”