Page Four January 6, 1967 The Davidsonian

Nationwide Protest Against ROTC Continues

ED. NOTE: The following article is reprinted from The Christian Science Monitor.

Protests against college ROTC (Reserve Officers Training Corps) are like brush fires: they're hard to put out. For the past
10 years, they have posed problems for academic firemen on campuses across the United States.

In 1959, a University of California freshman, Fred Moore, rather than take compulsory military science, went on a hunger strike.
After a petition was circulated by students, Moore was admitted to classes. Significantly, Moore's father was a colonel in the
Air Force. He said he supported his son's actions. In 1962, after other protests and a decision by the armed
forces to discourage compulsory ROTC programs, the University of California dropped the requirement.

At the University of Wisconsin, the regents voted, after a series of student protests in 1959 and 1960, to conditionally
eliminate ROTC as a requirement for admission. The conditions of the decision were that all entering freshmen take a six-week
indoctrination course in military science (but without drill) and that enrollments in advanced military science remain at 75 percent of
the 1959 level. So far, the compromise is working.

Back in 1957, two conscientious objectors found they couldn't enroll at the University of Maryland unless they took ROTC. They
sued and lost the case. Six years later, however, at the encouragement of the Pentagon, the university made the program
entirely voluntary.

In Ann Arbor, University of Michigan antiwar students protest with a sense of humor. They occasionally schedule a "Peacemakers Ball"
to coincide with the ROTC's annual "Military Ball." Minor eruptions have occurred this fall at...

ED. NOTE: The following article is taken from the Duke Chronicle, Duke University.

Many colleges and universities throughout the nation have been influenced by discussions on the merits of an "experimental college." Although
the term has meant something a bit different in each case, most of the institutions have discussed the advantages of
a freer, more personal framework for the intellectual community, in order to stimulate thought and develop more fully the potential
of the students and faculty.

Two universities having instituted "experimental colleges" are the University of California at Santa Cruz and Princeton University.

Santa Cruz completed its first year of operation in June. This pilot college last year enrolled 652 students. At Santa
Cruz, "small lecture courses will be avoided as much as possible, but in the early years some are inevitable," according
to the college’s booklet, Academic Plan. The booklet further states that "seminars will be employed to focus groups of six
to 15 students on inquiry and investigation. Tutorials will be restricted to advanced work in the students’ specialized field."

The college has resident faculty members from principal academic disciplines. According to the Academic Plan, "the proximity and shared interests
of faculty and students within the colleges should make their atmosphere more intellectual and more adult than that of the
usual residence hall."

NO GRADES

The emphasis in the experiment is on independent study and interdisciplinary courses. The students only take three courses per quarter.
The grades used at present are "pass" and "fail," but their continued use is presently being debated by the college's
academic senate. A faculty member considered the "first year at Santa Cruz to have been most promising in the development
of superior students who worked on their own for knowledge, not for grades."

At Duke University, a faculty member is proposing that an experimental college be set up there. In this proposal, the
faculty member quoted from "A Letter to the Undergraduates" by Bradford Cleveland, taken from The Berkeley Student Revolt. Cleveland questions
the system presently used in most universities. According to Cleveland, "as an undergraduate you receive a four-year-long series of sharp
staccatos: eight semesters, 40 courses, 1,500 to 2,000 impersonal lectures...

"If you don’t cheat you are forced to perform without time to think in depth, and consequently you must hand
in papers and exams which are almost as shameful as the ones you cheated on... You perform but when do
you think?" Cleveland continues.

PRINCETON

At Princeton University, about 50 faculty and students are enrolled in an experimental college this year, according to the Oct.
8 issue of the New York Times. They set up the college in rebellion against "an educational system that they
feel is 'fixed and rigid'," according to the Times. The college is not residential as the one at Santa Cruz
and concentrates on innovation in curriculum.

Daniel Altman, the leader of the experiment, told the Times that "mostly, the experimental college is concerned with change and
waking up 'our sleepy university'." The college offers six seminar courses so far. Altman wrote in the college's statement of
position, "When the process of learning becomes fixed and rigid, when the teacher becomes the grade-dispensing authority and the student
the note-taking subordinate, when a course is defined by a fixed amount of knowledge transmitted in formal lectures given in
fixed hours... education has become no more than an empty ritual in which individuals are prisoners of traditional roles."

Bill Bondurant Vacates Alumni Director’s Post

The college is now interviewing possible replacements for William L. Bondurant, who recently resigned as director of alumni activities to
practice law in Charlotte, according to John Ouzts, assistant director of alumni activities. Bondurant has set up practice with Jim
Richards, a 1960 Davidson graduate.

A graduate of the Duke University Law School, Bondurant served as assistant director of admissions in 1962 and was director
of alumni activities from 1962-66. While he was alumni director, he also served as legal advisor to the college.

While a student at Davidson, Bondurant was president of Beta Theta Phi and Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternities. He
was president of his senior class at Duke Law School.

During his term as alumni director, he published Davidson's first alumni directory since 1928 using the IBM data processing equipment.
Ouzts said that, to his knowledge, this was the first time that a computer has been used for that purpose
in the United States. He was also among the first alumni directors in the nation to have all of a
college's alumni ZIP-coded, according to the alumni office. He was jointly responsible, with Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations
and development, for...

"He has been particularly imaginative and helpful in keeping the Ford Challenge Program on schedule. One of his major contributions
has been in carrying forward our program for continuing education for alumni," Sailstad continued. This is a program of short
refresher courses in the liberal arts for business executives and professional men.

Tuesday Drill Is A Part Of The Academic Requirements

IS A COLLEGE JUSTIFIED IN REQUIRING STUDENTS TO TAKE ROTC?St. Lawrence College, N.Y.; Marietta College, Ohio; Ohio Wesleyan University, Del.;
and Middlebury College, Vt. An official at Duke University says that although no protests have yet broken into the open
there, subterranean rumblings are beginning to be heard. A loud protest has, however, surfaced at Boston University. In its first
issue of the school year this fall, the student newspaper, BU News, featured a column-length editorial and several pages of
news stories criticizing ROTC at BU. ROTC officials reacted swiftly, defending their position and charging the newspaper with slanting its
news coverage. Out of the flurry of charges and counter-charges may come faculty action. The university is currently in a
self-study program. One of the recommendations of a faculty group is expected to be that military science be denied academic
credit. Whether such a suggestion would be accepted is uncertain.

CRITICS

ROTC critics fall into two camps: those who want to deny military science academic credit and demote it to an
extracurricular activity and those who want the corps off the campus altogether. Both camps include students, professors, and administrators. Many
of them are involved in other antiwar activities. Some are new to the political uproar on campus. Both camps agree
that:

— Some military-science courses aren’t proper meat for an academic institution. Frequently named are marksmanship and “leadership laboratory” — close-order
drill.
— Neither ROTC professors nor military-science courses go through regular academic channels before being approved at a university.
— Because ROTC professors are paid by the military, and not by the university, and because course content is prescribed
by the military, the university has no control over ROTC.
— Military-science courses represent a militaristic point of view and offer no presentation of possible alternatives to military force.
— Since the university must be a “universal” institution, in order to remain academically free, it should neither support nor
accept support from any government. This includes, say the critics, providing free classroom and office space for ROTC.
— Military-science instructors frequently do not have the same academic credentials other faculty members are required to have.
— Military-science instructors too often are transferred away from ROTC duty before they have a chance even to become accustomed
to a teaching routine.

Some opponents of ROTC charge that when a university declares ROTC persona non grata, defense grants tend to disappear at
the same time. Not all the ROTC critics agree on this, though, and even the accusers admit it is hard
to prove. When asked if he had heard of any such pressure being brought by the armed forces, one ROTC
spokesman pooh-poohed the idea.

The supporters of ROTC are not restricted to the ranks of the military. At Boston University, one of the corps’s
best friends is Dr. Erazim V. Kohak, a philosophy professor. Dr. Kohak charges that underlying all the arguments against ROTC
“is the question of whether we really approve of armies at all.” He contends that in today's world a military
establishment is necessary to maintain peace and freedom. Dr. Kohak defends the practice of giving academic credit for ROTC courses
on the same basis that academic credit is given for any professional course — broadcasting, education, theology. “We’re not out
to build a military society,” he says. “But we do have the problem of training military officers and at the
same time keeping them with a basically civilian outlook. ROTC is ideally suited to this.”

NEW PROPOSAL

Dr. Kohak sees the “universal institution” concept of the university as impractical idealism. It would be wonderful, he says, to
have a truly universal academic institution. But in many parts of the world, this is impossible. He contends that to
maintain the academic freedom enjoyed in the United States and the free world, the political structure must be supported. And
the political structure, he argues, is protected by the military. Dr. Kohak is not total in his support. He says
the university should have more academic control over some military-science courses. The tools for control are there, he says, but
they have never been used. “It would be interesting,” says Dr. Kohak, “to submit a military history course to the
history department for approval. It would be interesting to see the reaction of the Army if the course were rejected.”
Dr. Kohak agrees that the military should retain control over strictly military course material. He admits that in this area
the Army knows better than the university what an officer needs.

RIGHT KEPT

Military-science courses are, in fact, outlined by the armed services. But Boston University maintains the right, as do all schools
with ROTC units, to reject any proposed subject material. ROTC instructors, too, are under the nominal control of each university.
They are military officers, assigned to ROTC for an average three-year tour of duty. They are paid by the armed
forces, not by the university. The services submit dossiers on one or more candidates. The university can disapprove all of
them if it so chooses. Col. Mario T. Villanti, who has charge of the military-science program at Boston University, also
says ROTC instructors are as well prepared as their counterparts in other academic fields. He himself has a law degree
and is a member of the Massachusetts Bar Association.

ORIGINS

ROTC grew out of the Student's Army Training Corps, which was established shortly before the end of World War I
to help provide men for that effort. Until recently, many land-grant colleges had compulsory four-year ROTC training for all male
students. Some, however, have now cut the requirement back to two years. Many have dropped the compulsory feature altogether. All
ROTC cadets—those either under the compulsory or volunteer program—are trained in two-year units of study. Around half of those who
complete the first two-year unit do not go on to the second, or advanced, course. Most of those who do
complete the four-year course are eventually commissioned as officers in one of the armed forces. Some semesters, cadets spend as
much as half their time each week in military science. Other semesters, a cadet may be required to spend very
little of class time in military courses.

Given the student-protest atmosphere on most campuses today, anti-ROTC flare-ups can be expected to continue. But the ROTC concept appears
firmly entrenched in the nation's educational scene. As a voluntary subject, it is likely to be around for some time
to come.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

PRINTS, from stock
CARDIGAN SWEATERS from stock, $6.50, now $4.95
GREETING CARDS from stock, 25c — Now 15c
SCHEDULE CALENDARS from stock, 34c — Now 20c

STARTING MONDAY JANUARY WHITE SALE? NO! (We'll skip that!) BUT A Selection of PAPER BACKS ½ Price

...½ price, for raising money to match the Ford Foundation grant. Under his direction, the United Appeal exceeded its goal
for Davidson by 200 percent. “He is one of a long line of Davidson alumni who have served their alma
mater with high distinction,” said Sailstad.

THE STUDENT STORE
Davidson

HATTIE'S
“Just up the road...”
