Community Developing Unique Housing Tract
By JAMES LEE
Staff Writer

In a program developed over the last two years, the town of Davidson is making it possible for local low-income families to find adequate housing at a substantially reduced cost. Davidson’s Community Relations Committee believes it has found the solution to what has been considered a pressing problem in recent years by developing a unique housing tract, according to H. Burling Narramore, President of Bridgeport Fabrics, Inc. of Davidson, and chairman of this committee.

Narramore said that various schemes were considered early in 1966 in hope of finding a truly workable solution to the problem of urban growth in an area whose real estate prices are surprisingly high, but whose residents’ incomes are usually low. The committee decided to develop a nonprofit corporation which would purchase and develop land within the town as a subdivision. It was decided lots would be sold at the cost of the land plus its development.

The Farmers Home Administration agreed to supply long-range loans to all buyers who could meet a few simple qualifications. In February 1966, Davidson Community Development, Inc. was established. Thirty-three acres of land on the western edge of town were purchased from Duke Power Company.

Actual construction of the tract began earlier this year and has not yet been completed. The development will have full sewage, water, and electrical facilities, and later, fully paved streets. There are plans for 73 lots, each about half an acre. Twenty-one have already been bought and construction on several houses has begun. The lots cost around $1000 each. The owners who qualify for the Farmers Home Administration loans will be able to borrow enough to cover the cost of the land and home; they will repay at an interest rate of 5 percent for a period of up to 33 years.

Narramore pointed out that buyers would have to buy with the intention of building their own homes. This is to prevent property speculators from buying lots and then raising their prices. Also, builders will have to construct homes of at least $8,000 in value. This minimum was set in order to maintain the appearance and value of the area in general. He said those who could afford to build in the development would in most cases leave the better dwellings of the community available for the still poorer residents whose present homes are barely adequate. Therefore, he feels the entire community will benefit from the project.

THE CLEAN-UP CONTINUES
A bulldozer is still at work clearing out weeded areas. Davidson’s Clean-Up Campaign aims to improve the town’s appearance and health conditions.

Student Spends Summer Organizing Community
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

While most Davidson students are openly impatient to abandon the campus for the summer months, junior Joel Keys stayed behind last summer to work with VISTA in the community. Although working in several areas, Keys concentrated on community organization. He characterized his job as going into an inactive community, socially and politically, and “trying to get people to think for themselves.”

Explaining how he did this, Keys said that the first step was finding out what people think is wrong. This step was not difficult, he commented, but inspiring the people “to do something about their gripes was another situation.” Davidson residents decided that a clean-up program was needed to alleviate health problems being caused by mosquitoes. After clearing their own property, the group of citizens presented to Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson a petition requesting that owners of vacant lots be required to clear them, in order to prevent the further breeding of mosquitoes.

Keys emphasized that he did not lead the clean-up campaign, but rather tried to encourage citizens to consider their problems and the possibility that they could solve them for themselves. The residents wrote the petition, distributed it, and presented it themselves, Keys said.

Keys also worked at developing a tutoring manual for STEP, the YMCA-sponsored student tutorial program, which assists elementary school children, and in distributing college scholarship information. He was assigned to VISTA’s Youth Educational Services in Durham. YES offered to pay Keys to head STEP in Davidson, but he declined the proposition.

JOEL KEYS - Community organizer

By KERN PARKER and BOBBY AMBROSE

Since early summer, the town of Davidson has been clearing fields, spraying for mosquitoes, and carting off trash, but Mayor F. L. Jackson maintains that no clean-up “campaign” is underway.

“It’s not a campaign in the usual sense of that word,” Jackson told THE DAVIDSONIAN. “It’s just a routine part of the town of Davidson’s work. We want to build a residential town,” he said, “and that involves keeping our streets and premises clean. We’re just getting to work on a few problems we have wanted to solve for some time.”

The major problem which the town is trying to correct is that of fields densely overgrown with underbrush which serve as breeding grounds for snakes, mosquitoes, and rats. In a letter mailed to Davidson’s property-holders this summer, Jackson requested that each citizen be responsible for cleaning up his own premises. Jackson offered the town’s assistance in clean-up activities to any property-holders who had difficulty in getting the work done, but warned that the town would feel free to clean up the premises of any uncooperative residents and send them a statement for the cost.

Jackson noted that a group of Davidson citizens from the Negro community was also aware of the health hazards posed by the overgrown fields. This group presented a petition to Jackson requesting that something be done about the situation. By the time the petition was submitted, Jackson said, earth-moving equipment was already at work cleaning some of the overgrown areas in the Negro community.

“We would be less than frank,” said H. Burling Narramore, president of Bridgeport Fabrics, Inc. of Davidson, and chairman of Davidson’s Community Relations Committee, “if we maintained that the interest...of the citizens has nothing to do with our clean-up program. The petition alone did not bring about the town's cur-

University Aids Tenants During Housing Shortage
By DON HOYT
Staff Writer

Duke and Columbia Universities typify the varying attitudes educational institutions take toward the town around them. Duke responded to riots in Durham this summer by offering 326 units of housing to relieve the shortage, in sharp contrast to Columbia, which is evicting tenants in order to make room for a $200 million expansion. According to The Reporter magazine, Columbia has evicted about 3,500 New York residents since 1940, and the institutions which surround it, including Union Seminary and Riverside Church, have evicted a like number. Duke, however, reacted to local problems with a three-part program, which involves selling 224 units of married student housing, withdrawing options on 102 other units and turning the options over to the Durham Housing Authority, and selling 25 acres of property for recreational use.

This page explores the various ways students are affecting the Davidson community, and the ways the community is itself putting on a new face. It also presents two other “town and gown” attitudes.

The land-clearing equipment is still at work in the community. Mayor Jackson said that there was no expected finishing date, noting that keeping a town clean is a continuing process. “We're trying to cooperate with the citizens in this clean-up program,” Jackson said. “The group from the Negro community told me that rats were developing into a problem over there. We immediately secured materials to get rid of the rats and reminded the group that rats can't live where they can't get food from open garbage pails or scattered rubbish.”

Jackson emphasized again that the city’s clean-up efforts should not be termed a “campaign.” “We wanted to get started on this last year,” he explained, “and even sent out letters to five residents warning them to clear off their property. But we didn't have sufficient funds, so we started again this year. We set aside funds in our 1967-1968 budget especially for this clean-up work.” Jackson stressed the point that no discrimination had been exercised with regard to which citizens would be required to clean their property. “We treat each of our citizens alike,” he said.

A federal agency, VISTA, worked with the Negro community in preparing the petition to the Mayor. Mike Norris, the VISTA representative currently working in the community, made this statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN: “The mosquitoes are still a problem. The feeling of the community people seems to be that not enough spraying was done. What has been done is good as far as cleaning up is concerned, but more definitely needs to be done. Not all the property that needs to be cleaned up has been cleared.”

According to Jackson, the bulk of the heavy work so far has been for the A.M.E. Zion Methodist Church, and is not yet completed. Jackson also said the town plans to clean up some brush along Mock Circle Hill.

PUTTING ON A NEW FACE
House-painting is part of the project.

Tutorial Program: A Big STEP In Local Children’s Education

Over 80 Davidson students have joined STEP this year, an increase of 25 over last year. STEP, or Student Tutorial Education Project, is designed to help local elementary school students who come from culturally barren environments, and therefore lag academically. “I’m very pleased with the increased response from students this year,” said Bobby King, head of the program. “Judging from the enthusiasm shown at the initial meeting Monday night and the tutor training sessions, STEP’s work should have a definite impact on the community.”

Because the essential problem of those being tutored is their environmental background, tutors must try to improve the tutee’s self-image by providing him with success experiences, according to Robert Pyeatt, a STEP tutor. The basic problem is not less intellect, he said, but less opportunity, for on non-verbal I.Q. tests the tutees do as well as those who do better on verbal I.Q. tests. The main weakness seems to be in reading, and in this area the tutors help. But just as essential seems to be getting to know the tutee as a person and a friend, winning his confidence as a step toward maturity, Pyeatt said.

Of the tutees, about a fourth are white and the rest Negro. Twenty-two attend school in Cornelius, the rest in Davidson. The program involves field trips for the tutees, who are under the direction of Bob McKellar, and enjoys assistance in community work under the direction of Mike Norris and Bobby Lane. Of the tutors, 26 are sophomores and 25 juniors, together composing 60 percent of the group. There are 16 freshman tutors and 14 seniors. Group leaders include Jim Bailey, Rick Harrell, Vernon Odum, Mike Payne, and Pyeatt.

STEP was founded about a year and a half ago by Norris, Jordie Lang, and Marvin Sparrow. It has grown to become one of the largest campus organizations. Tutor training sessions this week dealt with problems the tutor may encounter and methods for solving them. STEP groups will meet about once a month to discuss their tutees’ strengths and weaknesses and their own successes.

For the first time, STEP has an extensive library of tutoring aids and materials. Most of the materials deal with improving reading and verbal skills and creative tutoring techniques. Creativity is emphasized in tutoring. Since most of the tutees are on a second-grade reading level, this is one of the main areas of concentration. Comic books, hot rod magazines, or newspaper sports pages may stimulate the tutee’s interest. Such techniques as taking a field trip and writing about it give the tutee creative expression.

STEP, although an independent local organization, is affiliated with Youth Educational Services, a North Carolina group that operates tutoring programs throughout the state. YES supplies pamphlets and resource materials. Joel Keys, who worked in Davidson for YES this summer, compiled a basic tutoring manual designed especially for the disadvantaged Davidson community. It contains detailed instructions for tutors on becoming the tutee’s friend, providing him with success experiences, and thus improving his self-image.