A PRESIDENTIAL PORTRAIT ‘See Page Three! VOL. LVI HOMECOMING Among the Homecoming guests here last weekend were South Carolina Gov. Robert McNair and Mrs. McNair, who came up to see their son, a member of the Presbyterian College football team, in Saturday's game. (Staff Photos by Weems). DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1967

Council Voices Changes Asked

GUESTS During halftime, South Carolina’s first couple got a hand of welcome from President D. Grier Martin.

The college literary magazine, which pulled out of the Publications Board last year, may rejoin the board. Meeting last Friday, the Board of Advisers of The Miscellany tentatively decided to rejoin the Publications Board, provided that the advisers' control over the editor's election would be retained in the new set-up. According to the plan adopted at the meeting, the Board of Advisers would continue to make nominations for editorship of The Miscellany. The student body would elect the editor.

Program To Lose Support Of Richardson Foundation By BOB DUNKAM News Editor

The Richardson Foundation has announced plans to withdraw its financial support from the Richardson Foreign Student Program at the end of this school year. A similar program, using funds from a different source or sources, will probably be initiated at the end of the year. The announcement marks the end of the program which has brought approximately 125 foreign students to Davidson during the last 10 years. Over $200,000 has been spent for the program, one of the largest ever initiated by the foundation, over the 10-year period. In announcing the conclusion of the program, Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president, said that the administration had foreseen the end of the program and that the college had received sufficient notice of the plans. Bondurant added, however, that the college does plan to continue a foreign students program. “The college believes in the idea of having foreign students studying here,” he said, “and we plan to continue the practice in the future.” “We are currently in the process of seeking other financial sources for the program.” John Kelton, faculty adviser to the Richardson scholars, said that the college had been hoping for several years that the foundation would continue its support. Kelton said that the Richardson Foundation had developed this program, like many others, as a pilot program, with the intention of withdrawing support once the program had developed. The program was established at Davidson in 1958 by the Richardson Foundation and the Mary Lynn Richardson Fund of Greensboro. Up to 16 scholarships, for one year of study at Davidson, have been awarded each year to qualified male students from foreign countries. The scholarships have provided the entire cost of tuition, fees, room, board, laundry, plus an allotment for textbooks. The scholarship grants for this year total approximately $2,300. In addition, students are given a grant of $300 for travel in the United States during the summer following their academic year at Davidson. Kelton said that he hoped that the new program will operate much like the present one. He said that perhaps the only change in the new program would be in the name of the program and its source of funds.

Two Seniors Campused For Drinking Violations By CHUCK GREEN Staff Writer

Two Davidson seniors have been campused by the Faculty Committees on Student Discipline for violations of faculty drinking rules. The faculty committee, which met Tuesday and Wednesday to hear the cases, restricted both students to the town of Davidson until Nov. 22, the start of the Thanksgiving holidays. One case involved violation of the rule against drinking on campus, the other, the rule banning the possession of alcoholic beverages other than in the locked trunk of a car.

Up ‘n’ Coming Saturday, October 21 10 a.m. Soccer Davidson vs. The Citadel 2 p.m. Football Davidson vs. The Citadel Monday, October 23 10 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium 8 p.m. Movie Tuesday, October 24 Morrison Room Don't Make Waves 10:30 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium Sam Summerlin 7 p.m. Movie Wednesday, October 25 11 a.m. Visiting Scholar AP Reporter Morrison Room Martin Science Building Howard Eves 4 p.m. Soccer Soccer Field Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey 4 p.m. Cross Country Greenville, N.C. Davidson, VMI, ECU 7 p.m. Movie Morrison Room 10 p.m. Open End Union Lobby Dr. T. A. Williams Thursday, October 26 10:30 a.m. Chapel 7 p.m. Movie Love Auditorium Morrison Room

According to Committee Chairman John Hopkins, the cases involved a “low degree of violation.” Other members of the committee are W.O. Puckett, T.B. Logan, S.D. Maloney, and R.D. Kaylor. The first violation occurred the night of Oct. 9, when a campus security officer discovered bottles of liquor in the glove compartment of a parked automobile. The faculty committee took away the student’s car privileges in addition to campusing him. His restriction to the town began Monday, after he had had a chance to take his car home. The second violation occurred last Friday, when a security officer caught a student holding a can of beer as the student got out of a car in the parking circle behind the south end of Chambers. The campusing of the second student began yesterday.

Police Nab Youth In Laundry Theft

A 16-year-old juvenile home escapee charged in connection with last month's robberies of the College Laundry now faces additional charges for a third robbery of the laundry last Sunday night. The youth, whose home is in Huntersville, has been charged with one count of breaking and entering and one count of larceny for the latest of three robberies, which police say netted about $225 and one shirt. Davidson police said yesterday that the youth, who escaped from the Juvenile Detention Center last Saturday afternoon, had been returned to the center. He now faces a total of 13 counts of breaking and entering and larceny and three counts of housebreaking. A preliminary hearing for a 16-year-old Mt. Mourne boy charged in connection with the first two robberies is scheduled Tuesday morning in Mecklenburg County Recorder’s Court. The elder youth's $300 bond was reduced to $100 by the Recorder's Court Judge yesterday after a discussion with the boy’s lawyer, but the boy had not posted bond late yesterday and was still in the Mecklenburg County jail. According to Davidson police, the person who robbed the laundry Sunday night tore out a basement window on the building's back side and entered the laundry through its boiler room. The thief made off with a single knit shirt and about $225 from the office of Laundry Manager C.W. Stacks, police said. Police said they found the money when they arrested the younger youth at a friend's house in the Mt. Mourne community early Sunday morning. The money, they said, has been returned to Stacks. The first two robberies occurred on the nights of Sept. 24 and 26, when thieves made off with over $40 and some $300 worth of clothes.

In other business, the resignation of Co-Editor Ted Witter was announced. A senior, he had cited lack of time due to his honors work in English as the chief motivating factor in quitting. Senior Buddy Newsom was appointed co-editor.by The Miscellany's board of advisers along with Winter last year, becomes editor-in-chief. Winter will continue to serve as associate editor. The literary magazine was pulled out of the Publications Board last year by Editor Charlie Vick in an effort to become financially independent and to establish control by the Board of Advisers over the selection of the editor. The advisers agreed Friday, however, that The Miscellany should rejoin the Publications Board because it "is supported by the college community." Membership would also make The Miscellany eligible for the Publications Board's reserve fund, established to help publications that overspend their budgets. The Miscellany’s rejoining the Publications Board would require both the approval of the board and an amendment to the by-laws of the Student Body Constitution. Student Body President Tom Earnhardt said this week that the change would probably face no other constitutional blocks. The first issue of The Miscellany is being planned for December, according to Newsom. He said that the first issue would be 120 pages with a format similar to last spring’s issue. The magazine will have a slightly different format in the spring.

BUDDY NEWSOM
Miscellany editor

Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

BIBLE PROFESSOR TURNS SCULPTOR (See Page Six)

NUMBER SIX

Regret Over Blue Sky Delay
Letter Endorses 1968 Deadline

A letter expressing "concern over the delay in the implementation of the Blue Sky curriculum" was drawn up by Student Council members today and presented to Frontis W. Johnston, chairman of the Blue Sky Committee, and President D. Grier Martin, chairman of the College Finance Committee. The letter emphasized that "this program is vital to maintaining Davidson's leadership among the nation's liberal arts colleges" and urged that "every effort be made to meet the deadline" for implementation officially set for next fall. Action by the Student Council was prompted by the Board of Trustees’ decision to postpone, at least tentatively, implementation of the new curriculum.

Council To Push Housing Search
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Complaints raised by married students in a recent Student Council poll have prompted the council to investigate further the possibility of providing low-rent apartments for these students in the future. The council has delegated President Tom Earnhardt to discuss this idea with college Business Manager and Treasurer Robert A. Currie and organize a report to present to President D. Grier Martin and the faculty. Earnhardt said the report will summarize the views and ideas of the married students and also include such facts as the proposed number of apartment units, location, and rent. Earnhardt said he envisioned the project as being financed by the college as a long-term investment or by the government on a long-term loan. He said the housing could eventually be paid for through the rent in the same way that fraternity houses are paid for through the fraternity housing fee. The poll of married students stimulated such action because the majority of students indicated they would like to live near other married students and would take advantage of such housing.

In other action, Earnhardt announced an invitation Davidson received to send two delegates to a conference on Vietnam at Texas A&M in late November. He said speakers representing both sides of the issue would attend the conference. Peter Hobbie said the U.N. Model Assembly would be the first week of April, as previously announced. The council also decided to disband the Committee on Open Dorms because the Student Life Committee is presently considering the plan for the proposed Residence Hall Association, which includes such a proposal in its constitution.

CIRCUIT RIDERS
Banks, Matthews, and Smith wait for discussion.

Poetry Circuiter Finds ‘A Good Place To Read’

"Poets on the circuit are always spreading the news around that Davidson is a good place to read," said William Matthews, one of four reading poetry here Wednesday. Russell Banks and Newton Smith are graduate students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Charles B. Wright is an associate professor of English there. All were representing the North Carolina Poetry Circuit. Smith said, "I enjoyed it immensely. Unfortunately, some of the faculty were asking rather sophisticated questions, which seemed to inhibit some of the students." Smith, Matthews, and Banks are editors of the literary magazine Lillabulero. "We do it ourselves," said Matthews, "We edit it, print and distribute it ourselves, and we have no financial support. It is sold by subscription to anyone who wants to buy." In discussing the group's poetry, Wright said, "We do not represent any particular school of poetry." The poetry circuit is an organization which sends groups of North Carolina poets around to read to audiences in the state. Presently the organization’s offices are at North Carolina State University in Raleigh. Matthews also said that he enjoyed the reading. "It seemed to be a very responsive audience." "It was real nice to read sitting down. You know, we usually have to stand behind a podium while the audience sits down there and kind of glares at us," he added.

Although the Board accepted in principle the major tenets of the proposal, it decided to hold off on formal approval for financial reasons. The Student Council letter follows letters sent to President Martin by Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, associate professor of philosophy, and other professors expressing the same concern over the apparent decision to wait at least another year before putting into effect the new curriculum. Drawn up last spring by a committee consisting of faculty, administration, and students, the Blue Sky proposals include a three-semester academic calendar, discontinuation of compulsory ROTC, establishment of an honors college and a non-Western program, and introduction of Achievement examinations at the end of the sophomore year. Although most people concerned with the program seem to be pleased with its basic innovations, the real concern is how the program can be financed, both now and in the future. "The college simply cannot afford to do everything it would like to," said college Business Manager Robert A. Currie, "and what we must determine now is whether or not the Blue Sky program is economically feasible next year."

The Student Council letter urged the Administration to make "every effort... to revamp the present budget and to secure additional funds to establish the Blue Sky curriculum next year, either in total or in part."

Sky Not Falling, Yet...

Bobby Lane, student member of the Blue Sky Committee, said this week he was "disappointed but still hopeful" that the program can be instituted in the near future. Other members of the committee were reluctant to comment on the trustees’ postponement of the implementation of their proposals until Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty, makes an official statement next week. The dean will be out of town until Monday. It is Lane's feeling that the greatest expense in establishing the program would be in the reduction of faculty teaching loads and that the trustees want to be sure the college can finance the program. Physics Professor Locke White Jr., another member of the Blue Sky Committee, said, "The Blue Sky Committee has not yet heard anything to make it give up hope that the proposal will be, or that its efforts have been, wasted."