Che Davidsonian NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C. SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief PAGE TWO BILL WATSON Business Manager FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1967 Dollars And Sense Last spring at Antioch College a closed meeting of the trustees of that institution was disrupted when 50 students marched in and refused to leave. This year the trustees there consulted student opinion before and during their meeting. Last spring at a meeting of the Davidson College Coordinating Committee, a group representing faculty, administration, and students, Student Body President Tom Earnhardt suggested to President D. Grier Martin that the trustees consider the idea of consulting student body opinion before they made their decisions. President Martin said that he thought the trustees would be in favor of the idea and that he would see about implementing some arrangement whereby students would be able to present their ideas. So yesterday and today, without all the bother of a major protest, Davidson students have managed to exercise a good bit of influence over trustee decisions. And one trustee jokingly remarked at lunch today that for the first time since he had been a trustee he had gotten to meet real, live, flesh-and-blood students. Looking back over the results of this student influence, it seems that it caused no startling revolutions. It helped dissuade the Committee on Religious Life and the Church Community from reimplementing required worship attendance. Also, it helped the trustees to decide to implement the fraternity presidents’ extended rush plan. Student influence failed to persuade the trustees to place the new library across Concord Road from the present site, a position that was heavily favored in a student body poll last spring. However, if this is a loss for student influence, we cannot see it as a major one. The trustees seem overly concerned with the danger to students in crossing Concord Road to go to the library, but the trustees’ site will also be convenient to students and a building there can be designed so as to be quite attractive. The big loss of course came in the trustees’ decision to delay implementation of the Blue Sky Committee's proposals. Money is always a sore point for the small, private, liberal arts college. A noted educator has been quoted in the national press as saying that a large number of these institutions would soon be passing away because of their inability to support themselves. Davidson has been fortunate in having President Martin direct its fund-raising efforts. We can only express gratitude for the tremendous job he has done in raising capital to support the school in the cut-throat field of seeking foundation grants. His job in successfully meeting the Ford Challenge Grant requirements deserves the highest praise. But the delay in implementing the Blue Sky proposals makes us wonder whether it is money or creative education that will provide the best way for the small, liberal arts college to survive. Actually, if the aim of such a college as Davidson is only to survive, it is hard to see how it will be able to do so in the world of modern education. In a world where the large state university is nipping at the heels of the popularity of the small private college, it pays to be leading the pack instead of tagging along behind. The results of a college self-study two years ago showed that Davidson needed an excellent library to retain its present reputation and worth. Supporters of the college led by President Martin rose to meet this challenge, and we feel certain that the library will eventually be built. Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president, estimated today that a $5 million increase in Davidson’s endowment would be required to support the new ideas of the Blue Sky Committee. In the face of this large financial commitment, the trustees decided to wait until they could be more certain of the necessary funds to get to work on implementing Davidson's first major curriculum revision in 40 years. It is to their credit that they agreed to a called meeting to consider the Blue Sky ideas as soon as the college felt it could support them financially. This would seem to indicate some measure of agreement with the ideas. The thing that is not to their credit and which represents the loss to the faculty and to the rest of the college is that they were not able to come up with some plan that would get the college started into the needed curriculum revision. While we wait for the funds to support the entire program, we hope that we do not find the college slipping down closer to the jaws of those state universities that threaten to take over the field of college education. Escape To Boredom Davidson weekends are usually billed as an escape from the familiar monotony of study. The freshman emerges like a groundhog to view his date realizing that, unlike the groundhog, he cannot burrow back into the earth if his date appears to be a more literal representation of that species. Sophomores are resolved to have fun this year at big weekends regardless of the lambasting they took in the blind date vortex which, incidentally, ends with the confident junior’s knowledgeable choice of a date before the rush began. And the senior enters the big weekend also confident and with expectation but often a little bored. The reason for this boredom is obvious: of all the institutions at Davidson, big-weekending is probably the most unoriginal, repetitious method of entertainment known to students. The end result on Sunday afternoons is the same for the dateless as the dated. One is shot down by his date and feels defeated, empty, and cheated. The other does the job himself kamikaze-style, homing in from a weekend of over-rated concerts, typical fraternity parties, too much liquor and too little sleep to his wipe-out on Sunday afternoon. There he tries desperately to rid himself of his date before his social image ends not with a bang (having shot the proverbial wad earlier) but with a decidedly uncool whimper. Blind dates make for many a wretched weekend, but we think too often four years of typical weekending make for a pretty tiresome time by the senior year also. Too often concerts featuring a group that may appeal to only a portion of the student body on the basis of one or two recordings become the focal point of the weekend. But what we really oppose is the simple monotony of concerts for big weekends. Fortunately, Homecoming offered tonight a stay of execution or an escape from the “escape” in the person of Miss Russell, who though she may not be psychotic, psychedelic, or soulful, may just add some variety. Still, we believe a Davidson weekend could be more original and just plain more interesting if we could offer a more varied program of “big weekends.” Weekend symposia offer a chance to get to know and perhaps even talk to your date about some topic of interest slightly above what brand you and she smoke, drink, and associate with. But we realize that all of this cynicism is probably wasted. We fear that the idea of varying from typical big-weekending will continue to take the back seat in the Davidson gentleman’s mind to all that good old Joe College hell-raising that so many of us conclude with a sigh of, “Well now that’s done; and I'm glad it’s over.” Scorekeeping In case anyone is keeping score each time the old dead mule of a dry campus is kicked, we would like to record one more blow. The National Council of Churches has endorsed a government-sponsored study which recommends that the consumption of alcoholic beverages be denied the glory of prohibition by bringing it out into the open. The report contrasts the low number of drinking problems among the American Jews, 90 percent of whom drink, with the higher incidence among Anglo-Saxon and Irish-American groups. According to an account in The Charlotte Observer, the attitudes among the latter groups “... often include complete prohibition of alcohol and resulting guilt associated with drinking, as well as placing drinking occasions in a glamorous light or in the ‘forbidden fruit’ category, and drinking capacity as a test of masculinity.” The report notes that these groups have the highest incidence of alcohol problems in America. We wonder how much good the Presbyterian teetotalers of the college are doing by giving to drinking the luster of rule-breaking. We also wonder how much time will pass before the formaldehyde of unobserved rules drains out to let the old dry campus mule rot away to its deserving end. “Our New Discovery.” THE STUDENT SPHERE Council Program’s Aim Is To ‘Inform, Inspire’ By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer The Student Council may not send people on trips which take them around the world, but it is certainly giving interested students a chance to travel and serve the school at the same time. Among these Council-financed programs which involve travel are the Student Recruiting Program, the Student Exchange Program, and the Educational Planning Program. In my last column I focused on the Student Exchange Program. This week I would like to discuss the merits of the Educational Planning Program, conceived more than a year ago by the current president of the student body, Tom Earnhardt. “In talking with the guidance counselors at several high schools,” said Earnhardt, “I realized there are several limitations imposed on their position which make their jobs exceedingly difficult. The large number of students they are responsible for and the timidity of students to talk with them limit the amount of guidance students receive in planning their future.” The Educational Planning Program is designed to aid these counselors by helping high school students make the transition from high school to college or whatever they may enter after graduation. Davidson students visit high schools in groups of two or three and present an assembly program of 20 to 30 minutes in which they discuss the influx of new ideas and new living conditions with which the sheltered high school student will be confronted upon graduation. Each program is geared to the level of the student body in the school visited. If 78 percent of the student body usually goes on to college, Davidson students discuss particularly the practical aspects of visiting a college, how to choose a college, and what to expect as a freshman. If only 40 percent usually attend college, they do not dwell on college opportunities but discuss the importance of decision-making and emotional maturity in the period following high school. “The program is partly information and partly inspiration,” said Earnhardt. “It originated as a service project, but there are certain obvious fringe benefits which result. “Because the program is carefully prepared and usually interests the students very much, especially since it is unique to Davidson College. It thus furnishes an indirect form of student recruiting.”and a good means of public relations.” The Admissions Office must agree wholeheartedly because they have agreed to finance the program jointly this year with the Student Council. The budget for the program is almost twice its $750 budget of last year. The program began in October last year when students began to visit small high schools in North Carolina. Soon they were invited to visit the larger high schools in Greensboro and Winston-Salem, and in the spring students made trips to Atlanta, Richmond, northern Florida, and the Nashville-Memphis area. Bo Perry and Mike Carroli will head the program this year. According to Perry, 10 or 12 students are already lined up to make trips, although letters have not yet been sent to high schools. Letters are initially sent asking the schools if they wish to participate in the program. The primary qualification of a Davidson student is superior ability as a speaker, although each student is carefully trained concerning the purpose of the program.

Looking Backward
By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Inordinate Proportion

Among my numerous perverse habits can be counted the practice of occasionally reading the Davidson College Reference Catalogue. While I grant that the structure is sometimes confused, and the style often pedantic, I nevertheless submit that the publication offers an abundant field for the study of that particular form of humor known as irony. I assume that the Davidson catalogue differs slightly, if at all, from the efforts of other schools in this profusion of irony, irony being defined as a pack of half-truths.

I suppose that to term the catalogue description of Davidson College a pack of lies is to confuse the outright lie with the half-truth, the distorted view, and the mistake from ignorance. Therefore, it may perhaps be unfair to compare, for example, Davidson's statement of Christian commitment with the existence of a college-sponsored military establishment, although such a comparison does make a good cartoon. Attempting to be fair, I seldom bother with commenting on the more self-congratulatory passages, instead concentrating on less subjective contents such as the listing of faculty members by department. This is done in the belief that indeed, truth is often stranger than fiction.

One of the curiosities I have come upon by so reading the catalogue is the relative size of the departments. One would expect the Bible Department to be fairly large, in view of the twelve-hour requirement and in view of the fact that Davidson’s “binds” to the Presbyterian Church “have remained close and strong.” Such an expectation is not doomed to disappointment: the department has six members. One would also expect the history and English departments to be of more than average size, considering the number of students majoring in each. And so they are, each larger than the mean, with eight and eleven members respectively.

However, I personally was unprepared for the discovery that the truly significant, important departments lie outside what is generally considered the realm of academic endeavor. I refer to the departments of military science and physical education. The military science department boasts six members, making it the equal of the Bible department, and larger than any of the language departments except English. Further, one must keep in mind the fact that faculty members on sabbatical from their departments are still included as members, while the MiliSci Saigon sabbaticals necessitate severance of ties with the college.

But the size of Davidson's military establishment pales before the magnitude of the physical education complex, which boasts no fewer than thirteen members. This makes the department larger than any of the other departments at Davidson. Consider further. Each of these departments has enviable teaching and office space. No other department at Davidson has a building and grounds to itself as does the physical education department and no other department has a floor and a half to itself as does the military science department.

I contend that not enough use is being made of this situation. The physical education department is the largest in the college; the military science department is of more than average size. The facilities for these departments’ activities are ample. Therefore, it behooves the college to immediately establish a major in each of these fields, to expand the course offerings in each of the departments, and to plan for the development of graduate programs in physical education and military science in the not-too-distant future.

Free Discussion Vital During War

ED. NOTE: This is the second of a series of four articles excerpted by permission of Random House Inc. from The Arrogance of Power, by U.S. Senator J. William Fulbright, D-Ark., Copyright, 1966, by the author.

Freedom of thought and discussion gives a democracy two concrete advantages over a dictatorship in the making of foreign policy: it diminishes the danger of an irretrievable mistake and it introduces ideas and opportunities that otherwise would not come to light. The correction of errors in a nation’s foreign policy is greatly assisted by the timely raising of voices of criticism within the nation. When the British launched their disastrous attack on Egypt, the Labor Party raised a collective voice of indignation while the military operation was still under way; refusing to be deterred by calls for national unity in a crisis, Labor began the long, painful process of recovering Great Britain's good name at the very moment when the damage was still being done. Similarly, the French intellectuals who protested France’s colonial wars in Indochina and Algeria not only upheld the values of French democracy but helped pave the way for the enlightened policies of the Fifth Republic which have made France the most respected Western nation in the underdeveloped world.

It has been in the hope of performing a similar service for America on a very modest scale that I criticized American intervention in the Dominican Republic and that some of my colleagues and I have raised questions about the wisdom of American military involvement in Vietnam.

The second great advantage of free discussion to democratic policy-makers is its bringing to light of new ideas and the supplanting of old myths with new realities. We Americans are much in need of this benefit because we are severely, if not uniquely, afflicted with a habit of policy-making by analogy: North Vietnam's involvement in South Vietnam, for example, is equated with Hitler's invasion of Poland and a parley with the Viet Cong would represent “another Munich.” The treatment of slight and superficial resemblances as if they were full-blooded analogies—as instances, as it were, of history “repeating itself”—is a substitute for thinking and a misuse of history. There is a kind of voodoo about American foreign policy. Certain drums have to be beaten regularly to ward off evil spirits—for example, the maledictions regularly uttered against North Vietnamese aggression, the “wild men” in Peking, communism in general, and President de Gaulle.

Free and open criticism has a third, more abstract but no less important function in a democracy: it is therapy and catharsis for those who are troubled by something their country is doing; it helps to reassert traditional values, to clear the air when it is full of tension and mistrust. There are times in public life as in private life when one must protest, not solely or even primarily because one’s protest will be politic or materially productive, but because one’s sense of decency is offended, because one is fed up with political craft and public images, or simply because something goes against the grain. The catharsis thus provided may indeed be the most valuable of freedom's uses.

While not unprecedented, protests against a war in the middle of the war are a rare experience for Americans. I see it as a mark of strength and maturity that an articulate minority have raised their voices against the Vietnamese war and that the majority of Americans are enduring this dissent, not without anxiety, to be sure, but for the moment at least with better grace and understanding than would have been the case in any other war of the twentieth century. It is by no means certain that the relatively healthy atmosphere in which the debate has been taking place will not give way to a new era of McCarthyism. Critics of the Vietnamese war are being accused of a lack of patriotism, and these accusations are coming not only from irresponsible columnists but, with increasing frequency, from the highest levels of government. This situation is likely to become worse.

In Mark Twain's novel The Mysterious Stranger a benevolent and clairvoyant Satan said the following about war and its corrosive effects on a society: “There has never been a just one, never an honorable one—on the part of the instigator of the war. I can see a million years ahead, and this rule will never change in so many as half a dozen instances.

“The loud little handful—as usual—will shout for the war. The pulpit will—warily and cautiously object—at first; the great, big, dull bulk of the nation will rub its sleepy eyes and try to make out why there should be a war, and will say, earnestly and indignantly, ‘It is unjust and dishonorable, and there is no necessity for it.’

“Then the handful will shout louder. A few fair men on the other side will argue and reason against the war with speech and pen, and at first will have a hearing and be applauded; but it will not last long; those others will outshout them, and presently the anti-war audiences will thin out and lose popularity.

“Before long you will see this curious thing: the speakers stoned from the platform, and free speech strangled by hordes of furious men who in their secret hearts are still at one with those stoned speakers—as earlier—but do not dare to say so.

“And now the whole nation—pulpit and all—will take up the war-cry, and shout itself hoarse, and mob any honest man who ventures to open his mouth; and presently such mouths will cease to open.

“Next the statesmen will invent cheap lies, putting the blame upon the nation that is attacked, and every man will be glad of those conscience-soothing falsities, and will diligently study them, and refuse to examine any refutations of them; and thus he will by and by convince himself that the war is just, and will thank God for the better sleep he enjoys after this process of grotesque self-deception.”

Past experience provides little basis for confidence that reason can prevail in an atmosphere of mounting war fever. We must try nonetheless to bring reason and restraint into the emotionally charged atmosphere in which the Vietnamese war is now being discussed. Instead of trading epithets about who is and is not giving “aid and comfort” to the enemy, we would do well to focus calmly and deliberately on the issue itself, recognizing that all of us make mistakes and that mistakes can be corrected only if they are acknowledged and discussed, and recognizing further that war is not its own justification, that it can and must be discussed unless we are prepared to sacrifice our traditional democratic processes to a false image of national unanimity.