SOME YOU WIN...

‘Cat End George Hannen Clutches Pass Tightly

Four Lettermen Return - Wildcat Fuzzballers Boast Davis Cupper

Pson’s tennis team, as fall practice began last Tuesday, boasts a former Davis Cup player and four returning lettermen. Hatcher,
a senior, was the number two man and conference champion in his division last year. Hearon is also a senior.
As a junior, he held the number three position and was a finalist in his division of the conference playoffs.

George Berner, a Richardson Scholar from Helsinki, Finland, is expected to help the team a great deal during his one
year at Davidson. He has represented his country in the men’s doubles and the mixed doubles finals of the Davis
Cup matches. Berner is an excellent doubles player. He should be one of our top players, coach Harry Fogleman said.

Lettermen returning from last year’s Southern Conference champions are Sam Hatcher, David Hearon, and David Jennings. Jennings played in the
number six slot and won his division in the conference playoffs last year. Woody Faulk, who was the number six
man two years ago, returns after a year of study in Germany where he did not play tennis. “I expect
Faulk to get back in shape and play well,” Fogleman said. “He is a good competitor who should help us.”

Prospects Bright For Swim Team

The return of five lettermen, led by senior captain Eddie Beach, and several good freshman prospects, make this year’s swimming
outlook much brighter than last year. Coach Stevens said some swimmers were already working out on their own. “One of
our big problems is that boys come back from vacation without having had enough practice,” Stevens said.

Smith’s To Face Paladins

By JIM CROUSE Sports Writer

After losing its season opener with Virginia Military Institute last weekend, Davidson’s youthful football team will travel to Greenville, S.C.
tomorrow to battle Furman’s Purple Paladins. The game, which begins at 8 p.m. in Sirrine Stadium, is the 37th encounter
between the two Southern Conference rivals. The Paladins eked out a 28-26 victory over the ‘Cats last year in a
thrilling aerial barrage that was decided until the final moments of play.

Since the Paladins who engineered last year’s defeat—quarterback Clyde Hewell and end Robbie Hahn—are back, Davidson coach Homer Smith has
been working to tighten the sophomore-laden ‘Cat defense, which yielded 46 points to VMI. The ‘Cats’ sophomores, who numbered many
in their defensive secondary, failed to stop VMI’s ice-cold passing attack. Long practices marked by hot hitting drills should better
prepare the defensive unit physically, the coaches hope.

“Our defensive backfield play completely broke down Saturday,” Smith said. “But those players involved are not to be pointed to
any more than those who lost the fight in the interior line. We lost that game physically.”

Randy Jones, a sophomore newcomer, is expected to help the team very much. The Foglemen have won the Southern Conference
title the past three years and hope to be a top contender for the crown again.

Smith said he has a great deal of respect for Furman’s team, dubbed ‘The Football For Fun Bunch’ by Paladins
coach Bob King. Pointing to Furman’s record, unblemished after two games, Smith said the ‘Cats will have to be much
improved in order to defeat Furman. The Paladins polished off Mars Hill 42-0, and edged Mississippi College 15-6. Smith said
his coaching staff has scouted Furman twice and was impressed by the Paladins’ performance.

Furman’s athletic program is enjoying a building program, Smith said. “We must get our defensive backfield problems solved before we
go to Furman,” Smith said. “Furman has an outstanding passing attack, though it is mainly a running team. It is
unusual to find a team that has such a fine passing game.”

With Hahn and Hewell, dubbed ‘The Flea’ and ‘The Fly’ by their teammates, returning, Furman should have a polished aerial
attack. Hewell, who stands 5-10 and weighs 160 pounds, connected on 81 of 157 passes for a school record of
1,096 yards. Hahn, 5-9 and 170 pounds, caught 26 passes for 535 yards and seven touchdowns. Both are juniors. Furman’s
Coach King will be relying on the running talents of fullback David Neely, a 5-10, 175-pound junior from Atlanta, and
halfback Johnny Talkington, a 5-9, 180-pound senior from Washington.

By DANNY WHITE Assistant Sports Editor

The big question concerning Davidson’s youthful grid team as it returned to the grind of practice this week was what
would be the effect of the inexperience of the sophomores on the squad. The answer came last Saturday in the
form of a painful 46-21 defeat by Virginia Military Institute. Homecoming quarterback Bobby Bishop made a riddle of the Wildcat
secondary, completing 11 of 16 passes for 269 yards to keep the youthful ‘Cats off balance. Bishop was named Southern
Conference Offensive Player of the Week for his heroics against the Wildcats.Va It Player for last year’s, according to coach
Tom Stevens. “Freshmen are eligible for varsity competition and there are two or three that can really help us,” Stevens
said. Returning lettermen are Eddie Beach, Joe Frieble, Bobby Vagt, Laurie Eckman, and possibly Larry Davidson. “Eddie is our leader
on the swimming team. He has studied swimming, knows the fundamentals of every stroke, and teaches every summer,” Stevens said.
Practice for the meet with Virginia begins Oct. 15. However, opening Dec. 1. “The chance to swim daily,” he said.
“We have to start conditioning all over again. Swimming is the toughest sport physically. I hope that the swimmers will
get some of the credit they deserve for the work that they do.” Stevens was cautious in his estimate of
the team’s performance this season. However, Beach was more optimistic. “I'm really pleased with the interest and enthusiasm shown thus
far. With hard work and determination, this year’s team will be the best in Davidson's history."

Kelly Is Benched For Five Weeks

Sophomore end Mike Kelly has been benched for about five weeks because of injuries, coach Homer Smith has announced. The
6-4, 195-pound starter received a fractured ankle sometime earlier in the season, although the time of the injury is not
known. He had been bothered by leg pains and had not responded to treatment, Smith said. Kelly, who graduated from
North Mecklenburg High School, was considered one of Smith's prime recruits when he entered Davidson last year. During the ‘Cats’
season opener last week against VMI, Kelly caught five passes for 45 yards and played both offense and defense. He
alternated between split end and flanker. Davidson faces contests with Furman and East Carolina during Kelly's absence. Smith said he
will probably use junior Greg Cox and sophomore George Hannen for wide receivers in tomorrow’s battle with Furman. Senior letterman
Dick Lindsey will be called on to hold down Kelly's defensive slot. In other football news, The Charlotte Observer sports
department picked the Paladins to top Davidson tomorrow. Five of the Observer's nine sports writers picked Furman to win, while
the rest sided with the ‘Cats.

VICTOR AND SPOILS

Roger Clark of Hendersonville shops through a table of cakes for his pick of the goodies after the 35th annual
cake race Monday. Clark paced his classmates over the 1.7-mile course with a time of 10 minutes and 10 seconds.
(Staff Photos by Weems?)

The Wildcats’ defensive problems were evident as VMI combined its passing and rushing attacks to 546 total yards. Davidson played
as many as eight sophomores in its defensive alignment at one time and the inexperience showed in the lop-sided score.
The ‘Cats offensive attack, supporting four sophomores in the starting line-up, put in a better effort to produce points, good
enough to win most games. Jimmy Poole, last year’s SC Co-Player of the Year, completed 16 of 32 passes and
two TDs. Poole’s backup at quarterback, sophomore Gordon Slade, completed four of six passes for 64 yards and one TD.
The Wildcat offense, however, could not match the VMI attack, although both teams had the same number of bombs thrown
by ‘Bishop in the second half. One went for 66 yards, another for 40 yards, and a third for 37
yards. Smith also blamed the Wildcats’ conditioning as a major factor in the outcome of the conference battle. “We lost
the game physically,” said Smith bluntly. Smith's proposition that the Davidson defensive secondary completely broke down is attested to by
three long passes thrown by ‘Bishop in the second half. One went for 66 yards, another for 40 yards, and
a third for 37 yards. The Wildcats were also hampered by the loss of starting center Buddy Newsom, who dislocated
a shoulder in the first period. Newsom will miss this week's game with Furman and will be replaced by junior
Sandy Brenneman.

INTRODUCTION TO SCUBA

A Short Course in Scuba Diving To be offered on Davidson campus. Eight sessions--three in classrooms, five in pool. Textbook
and scuba equipment furnished with course, students furnish own masks, fins, and snorkel. $18.00. Last year’s students may now sign
up for local diving trips. A Fascinating Sport. For full information inquire at Green Room, Student Union. Tuesday, September 26,
7:00-9:00 p.m. Or call Charlotte 333-5475 (Day) JA3-4762 (Night). The Scubateer System of Diver Training W. E. WOLFF 1012 Sedgefield
Rd. Sedgefield Rn. Charlotte, N. C. 28209

Electric - Supplies and Repairs on Radios, Record Players, etc.

WITHERS ELECTRIC Main Street Davidson

We Repair Shoes Expertly! McKISSICK’S SHOE REPAIR Main St. Davidson

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students) with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on
pipe (only) purchases. This ad 217 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. 28202

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE “just up the road”

THE VILLAGE STORE Davidson, N. C.

Compliments of M & M SODA SHOP

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST CO. Serving The Students Of Davidson College for over fifty years MEMBER F.D.I.C.

VMI Backs Answer Year’s Big Question

The ‘Cats offensive attack, supporting four sophomores in the starting line-up, put in a better effort to produce points, good
enough to win most games. Jimmy Poole, last year’s SC Co-Player of the Year, completed 16 of 32 passes and
two TDs. Poole’s backup at quarterback, sophomore Gordon Slade, completed four of six passes for 64 yards and one TD.
The Wildcat offense, however, could not match the VMI attack, although both teams had the same number of bombs thrown
by ‘Bishop in the second half. One went for 66 yards, another for 40 yards, and a third for 37
yards. Smith also blamed the Wildcats’ conditioning as a major factor in the outcome of the conference battle. “We lost
the game physically,” said Smith bluntly. Smith's proposition that the Davidson defensive secondary completely broke down is attested to by
three long passes thrown by ‘Bishop in the second half. One went for 66 yards, another for 40 yards, and
a third for 37 yards. The Wildcats were also hampered by the loss of starting center Buddy Newsom, who dislocated
a shoulder in the first period. Newsom will miss this week's game with Furman and will be replaced by junior
Sandy Brenneman.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

CLOTHING John Eck & Son Mooresville, N. C. Campus Reps: Andy Beard - D232 Charlie Gorham
