SSOC Continues Peace Activities
By JOHN PANCAKE
Staff Writer

The Davidson chapter of the Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC) is doing just what its name implies.

Leonda Will Sing At The ‘d’

Folk singing, light, and color will highlight the College Union’s first Hungry d coffee house of the year. The coffee house, which will run Tuesday through Saturday evening, will feature Leonda, a part-Cherokee folk singer. She will present two shows nightly, at 8 and 9:30, except on Friday, when she will perform after the Artist Series production.

Leonda has appeared recently at the Newport, R.I., and Philadelphia, Pa., folk festivals. This past summer, she toured Poland on request of the Department of State. The native North Carolinian accompanies herself on guitar.

In addition to Leonda, the Union plans to show films, described by Union vice president Ed Embree as “campy.” The Union will serve coffee, tea, and delicatessen items. Doors open at 7:30 each evening. Waitresses will serve during the last three evenings. Admission for the shows is $1. Reservations can be made at the Union desk.

The chapter has organized student participation in the recent march in Washington, D.C., in conferences on the war in Vietnam and on the problems of the Southern city, and in a peace vigil. Activities planned by the chapter for the future are programs in which speakers will present views on conscientious objection to the draft, draft resistance, and community organizing techniques.

The Davidson chapter was organized to aid union organizing activity in the state last spring, but the group has been forced to shift its emphasis this year because there has been little union organizing in the state this fall. Geoff Seamans, president of the group, said that this has resulted in fewer activities by the chapter than had been anticipated last spring.

Seamans said, “SSOC is not a political organization and does not, as an organization, take part in electoral campaigns. Therefore, on the campus, our activities consist mainly of providing information and providing an organization through which the individual member may take action. The main benefit thus far has been to the individual member,” he said.

Cary White, senior SSOC member, said, “Our activities haven't been as numerous this year as we had planned, but with increased membership and better organization, we hope to accomplish much more in the future.”

(Staff Photo By Fonvielle)

E(x) - M—E(X) ...

Dr. Howard Eves, professor of mathematics at the University of Maine and author of several textbooks, lectured Wednesday at 11 a.m. in Martin Science Hall and at 4 p.m. in Dana Science Building. He was brought to campus through the Piedmont University Center.

Shakespearean Comedy Second In Artist Series

The Shakespearean play, A Comedy of Errors, will be presented Nov. 3 as the second presentation of the Artist Series for the year. The play will be presented by members of the American Classical Theater, a non-profit organization which has its headquarters in Atlanta, Ga. The group has been touring the United States and Canada, giving presentations at colleges and universities. The play will be staged in Love Auditorium. Curtain

Brinkley Defines Freedom, Other Needs Of Students
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

“No college or university which is fulfilling its function can be unconcerned with its students’ off-campus activities,” Dr. Alan B. Brinkley said.

Brinkley, associate professor of philosophy, entitled his address “You've Been Had, Man, If You Signed Away Your Freedom When You Filled Out the Application.” He was the first in a series of lecturers sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon in its program, Blow-Up ’67.

In his address, Brinkley compared the closed society of a college or university with a world culture. He said that the educational society is a miniature of the world society with the same need for individual rights and freedom.

Brinkley said that students need the freedom to explore, to work out an ethical standard instead of passively accepting the moral standard of a society which is largely unconscious. Students need to do this in order to prevent a nuclear war and create a world culture. “We don't need ideals to die for, we need values to live for,” he said.

The Berkeley riots occurred because the students there felt that the educational system was designed to create passive, dependent students. They were not encouraged to find reality for themselves but were forced to accept the professor's view of reality.

Brinkley said that the function of education is to produce leaders who will force society-as-it-is to confront society-as-it-should-be. The educational process must provide students with stamina so that they will not be overwhelmed by society. “A liberal education should be a liberating education,” Brinkley said.

The college should be trying to make the students independent of the institution, since a dependent student tends to accept the status quo. The student needs to have the time to consider alternatives so that he can formulate the values which he will live by. These values can then be integrated to form a world view which will determine the student's future actions when he attempts to change society.

The college community should be a place for exploration and experimentation of ideas. “A college should be more like a volcano than a placid goldfish pond,” Brinkley said.

Sacred Music To Be Featured

The Davidson College Music Department has announced its plans for the eighth annual Convocation of Sacred Music, to be held Nov. 17 and 18. The convocation seeks to provide a colloquy for educators, church musicians, clergy, and laity interested in a better understanding and appraisal of the importance of sacred music.

Keynote speaker for the convocation will be Alec Wyton, a composer of hymns and past president of the American Guild of Organists. He will address the gathering on the topic, “Where is Church Music Going?” and will direct a workshop on new ideas in church music.

Davidson faculty member, Dr. Alexander J. McKelway, will address the group on “Modern Theology and the Church Service.” Another lecture, “Jazz in Worship,” will be delivered by Loonis McGlohon, a jazz pianist and music director of WBT Radio and Television stations in Charlotte. Friday eveningA concert will be held in the college church. It will be directed by Wyton and will feature the combined voices of the Trinity Presbyterian Church choir, Charlotte; and Queens College Choir; and the Davidson College Male Chorus. Tickets for the convocation may be purchased from the Music Department. However, the experimental freedom of a college may be limited by outside pressures if the students become too active. It is in drawing the line on student action that problems occur, and it is here that students need some guarantee of certain rights. Brinkley said that the courts have changed their stand. The former stand was that a student gave up his constitutional rights when he enters a private institution. There is now a movement of organizations like the National Student Association to formulate a Student Bill of Rights. Brinkley emphasized that students need certain rights in hearings on violations of college regulations. Such rights as the right to face one’s accusers, the right to an advisor, the right to present one's own witnesses and to cross-examine the prosecution's witnesses, and the right to a speedy hearing need to be guaranteed. Also, procedures on admissibility of evidence and procedures for lawful search must be set up. During the discussion that followed, Brinkley expressed concern that the activists are disenchanted with the establishment. He said that he felt that disenchantment causes many to give up a chance to lead a more useful life. He said that a student should actively work to change society, even though he may be defeated in the attempt. Violent action should be resorted to only after all other alternatives have been exhausted. Brinkley, a Blue Sky subcommittee member, was asked about his reaction to the postponed implementation of the Blue Sky proposals. Noting the presence of President D. Grier Martin, Brinkley expressed disappointment but understanding of the trustees’ action and referred the question to Martin for further answer. Martin explained that while the implementation of the program would cost initially about $240,000, an endowment of at least six million dollars would be necessary to sustain the program. In light of the present financial problems of the college and the campaign in progress to raise an additional two million dollars for a new library, Martin felt that the trustees had to apply present and expected funds to other programs. The time is 8:15 p.m. Student tickets may be obtained at no cost at the College Union desk. Date tickets cost $1.

The Davidsonian
October 27, 1967
Page Three

Social Life, Other Issues Confront New Committee
By JIM GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

The Faculty Student Life Committee (SLC), established last spring, has begun its study of campus issues and campus social life. The primary purpose of the committee is to promote the welfare of students by examining campus issues and providing a general overview of all campus social life. Headed by Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, the committee consists of six faculty members and three students. Faculty members on the committee are Dr. R. D. Kaylor, Dr. J. B. Stroud, Dr. William G. Workman, Dr. Thomas A. Williams, Dr. A. A. Wolf, and Norman Johnson. The student representatives are Tom Earnhardt, President of the Student Council; Bill Andrews, senior class representative; and Randy Phillips, junior class representative. Bill Andrews said that though the Student Life Committee is broader in scope than many other committees, it does not have any special powers. “We have the prerogative to take up any subject which might need analysis,” he said. Establishing the committee’s scope is now the group's hardest problem. With many phases of student policy covered by previously existing committees, it is difficult to keep from overlapping. In fact, one of the SLC’s most important jobs is finding problems of student life and referring them to other faculty and Student Council committees. The Residence Hall Association is currently the committee’s most important project. Providing student government for the residence halls, the association covers not only the physical aspect of the living quarters but also the social aspects. Informally approved by the Student Council and faculty, the new plan was given tentative approval by the Board of Trustees last spring. With the stipulation that all arrangements remain flexible, the SLC has full control over this experimental project. The members of the SLC have also urged more student representation on faculty committees, especially where there are presently vacancies on the committee. Future plans for the committee include a study of the married student housing situation, recently investigated by the Student Council. This study has no definite goal but is designed to present a clear picture of the problem so that the committee may decide upon a future course of action.

Decision Still Pending On Vacation Extension

A decision on the proposed calendar change to extend the Christmas vacation one day, Jan. 2, has been temporarily delayed by questions of procedure. The proposal, which normally would be acted on by the faculty Academic Scheduling Committee, has been passed on to Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, due to a change in the status of the scheduling committee. The committee has assumed the status of an advisory group with the authority to make only recommendations to the Dean of the Faculty. Johnston will decide whether the question will be decided by the faculty Executive Committee or by another designated committee. The decision on procedure will be made at an early date with an announcement of the action taken on the calendar change made soon after that time.

I sang my harp on the sun's deck
Here at the water in the cool unblossomed year,
And the light notes clung at my hair roots
Like bird cries gathering.
All the day's time leaned
Into lengthening shadows
And moments clung like fresh leaves
On water. Wind crossed the pond
Leaving stripes and crosses
As though it rolled and cast down,
Cast down its shape for vision.
Wisteria hung for lavender
In a blossom of perfume,
And on the stone a toad
Settled in sunlight.
Is this saturation of senses enough?
Living together between a time frame,
We creature and non-creature
And I among them.

Susan McCord

To communicate is the beginning of understanding.