Page Four September 29, 1967 The Davidsonian

HERE TOMORROW
‘Cats Face Toughest Test Against ECU
Smith, Gridmen Prepare For Tilt
By ROCKY CROSSWHITE
Sports Writer

Davidson's sophomore-laden gridders face the toughest test of their career tomorrow, when they go against the Pirates of East Carolina University at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium. Coach Homer Smith rated the game as the toughest of his Davidson career. “If we win this game Saturday,” he said, “It will be the greatest football victory Davidson has had in a long time.”

Smith said East Carolina is a well-balanced team that is highly skilled in every way. “There is nothing in the game they (East Carolina) don’t do well. They are aggressive defensively, very strong, and they are coached by one of the realest football coaches I know.” Some football seers have predicted Davidson has as much a chance of beating East Carolina as it would of defeating the Green Bay Packers. “We are going to have to play as hard as we can or we are dead, and then again we will have to do something extra,” Smith said.

East Carolina has looked as tough as pre-season polls predicted. They opened their season by clobbering William and Mary, whom some sports writers considered one of the best teams in the conference. The score was 27-7. The Pirates then battered Richmond, 23-7. Both games were played away from East Carolina’s field at Greenville, N.C., and most people feel winning on the road is the test of a great team.

East Carolina runs the single wing and is one of the few teams in modern football to employ this formation. The single wing uses a seven-man line with a blocking back, fullback, tailback, and wingback. The chief advantage of the single wing is that a team can run a variety of plays from it, while the main disadvantage is the distance between the center and backs—about three yards.

Piloting the Pirate attack will be quarterback Nelson Gravatt from Burkeville, Va. Anchoring the fullback slot will be Butch Colson, a 197-pounder from Elizabeth City. Last week the sophomore back compiled 127 yards in 28 carries against Richmond's Spiders. At tailback will be Neil Hughes, who ran for 106 yards in 18 carries and passed for another 40 yards last week.

In face of the Pirate threat, Smith and his assistants have been trying to iron out a few weaknesses and prepare for what they call “our toughest game.” “Of course, you must adjust to the different offense,” Smith said, “but we are not going to make any drastic changes in our game.” East Carolina has been well scouted, Smith said, and the team is familiar with the Pirates’ offense.

Smith said he was encouraged by the performance last week. “Jimmy Poole played one of his greatest football games,” Smith said. “This year Kerry Keith has been running better than ever before,” according to Sports Information Director John Kilgo. “The 295 yards gained on the ground against Furman is better than any Davidson team has done in a long time.” Davidson defeated Furman last week 45-22, offsetting a loss to VMI in both teams’ season opener.

Walter Greene, All-Conference candidate and defensive middle guard, will return to his position tomorrow. Greene was injured earlier in the season. Hank Strickland, a 6-3, 211-pound junior, will be moved from tackle to middle guard on defense, while Jeff Pfluger and Gary Hemric will man the tackle slots.

Shouldering Into The Job
HOMER’S CHARGES PREPARE FOR PIRATES
Gridmen Get In Shape For First Home Game Of Season

Line Play Batters Paladins
Davidson's offensive line bullied and battered Furman’s front five Saturday and gave the ‘Cats the deciding advantage in their 45-22 walloping of the Paladins last Saturday. “The offensive line made the difference,” Coach Homer Smith was quoted as saying. “They pushed Furman all over the field.” The linemen, led by Sandy Brennaman, Dave Thompson, Terry Esterkamp, Kit Thompson, and Lowell Bryan, teamed up with backs Kerry Keith and Ken Hill to give Davidson's ground attack enough steam to grind out 295 yards, 230 more than the ‘Cats gained two weeks ago in their loss to VMI.

Keith, who personally oc...

Keith Sparkles At Furman
KERRY KEITH “Honor For Team”
By JIM ROLAND
Sports Writer

The victory last week over favored Furman was definitely satisfying to junior Kerry Keith, but the award of Southern Conference Player of the Week probably came closer to repaying his efforts. The 5-10, 182-pound fullback from Falls Church, Va., set a new school record for the most carries in a game with 31. His 100-yard rushing total was 65 yards short of the personal rushing total set by Steve Smith in 1964. Keith scored two touchdowns within 15 seconds and broke loose for a 60-yard run from scrimmage in the second half, thus qualifying him for the honor.

Keith, however, claims the award was “an honor for the whole team.” Keith added, “What do you do when the line opens up for you? You can just run through.” And run through he did, improving the Wildcats’ ground attack from 65 yards against VMI to 295 against Furman. “Keith's performance against Furman proved to be the epitome of a tough team effort,” said Co-captain Walter Greene. Keith agreed with Greene that the team had prepared for the game. “After killing each other in practice all week,” he said, “we were ready to practice on somebody else.”

Football has occupied much of Keith's time since entering school. He gained his initial experience on a grammar school team at age eight, and since then he has worked against much competition to become one of the best in each of the levels in which he has participated. He played high school football in Pennsylvania and then in Virginia, where he was an All-Metropolitan linebacker for the Washington, D.C., area.

Last year, as a sophomore, Keith carried the ball 177 times for 282 yards and an average of 3.7 yards per carry. To date, he has carried 15 times for 228 yards and a 4.9 average. He has caught one pass for 12 yards, and...‘He has scored three touchdowns,’ Coach Homer Smith, commenting on Keith's college ball playing, said, “Keith is a tough athlete and makes steady improvement. He is the best-conditioned man on the team." Keith’s conditioning is the result of a rigorous schedule. After football in the fall, he will turn to wrestling in the winter. He is now a conference champion wrestler. Keith claims that wrestling improves his football abilities by adding speed, agility, and aggressiveness. Keith, who is majoring in Business, enjoys sports, especially football. “It's fun when you're winning,” he said, “There's a lot to learn from losing, but winning helps everything fit into place.” Evaluating the Davidson football team, Keith says that it is “a good team all the way around, stronger than last year's.” Although the upcoming game with East Carolina is considered one of the toughest on the schedule, Keith predicts that “if we play together as we did against Furman, we should win.” Whatever the result, Kerry Keith will figure prominently for the Davidson Wildcats.

DURABLE PRESS SLACKS
@ Navy
@ Beige
@ Tobacco
@ Char-Brown
$5.98
THE VILLAGE STORE
Davidson, N.C.

...counted for 161 yards, was named Southern Conference Back of the Week for his performance. Sophomore Ken Hill added 88 yards. The ‘Cats looked sluggish early in the game. The Paladins' offensive attack rolled over the defense for two TDs early in the game and gave the Paladins a 14-0 lead late in the half. But late in the second quarter, the ‘Cats began to roll, as quarterback Jimmy Poole led his team 60 yards in 11 plays. A pass from Poole to end George Hannen set up the first score. Hill then scampered over from the ten to put the ‘Cats on the board. Keith then plunged over for the second goal. On the extra point attempt, Furman drew a personal foul. The call resulted in another penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct. 

The ‘Cats then kicked from the Furman 30-yard line. An onsides kick gamble paid off as Davidson recovered the ball on the Paladin 18. A few plays later, Keith powered over from the one to give the ‘Cats a halftime lead. Davidson defensive back Whit Morrow picked off a Furman aerial to set up another score, which came when Keith powered over on a pitch-out. John Giles added three points with a field goal in the third quarter, and a fourth-quarter sneak by Poole climaxed the ‘Cat scoring. The win Saturday avenged a 28-26 loss to Furman in Charlotte last year when the Paladins cut through a depleted, exhausted Davidson defense to eke out the win in the final moments of the game.

SALE RECORDS
1. e 100 of Each
Davidson
THE STUDENT STORE

Stasavich Vows Few Surprises
By JIM FREEMAN
Sports Writer

East Carolina Coach Clarence Stasavich promised a few surprises for the ‘Cats tomorrow, including a brand new offense and a much-improved backfield. “We will be using a new offense,” Stasavich said, “we have used a new offense in every game so far.” Stasavich added that he does not expect his Pirates to do much passing, a feature which may be encouraging to the Wildcats’ youthful defensive secondary. The ‘Cats secondary allowed VMI quarterback Charlie Bishop to pass his way to the Back-of-the-Week Award a few weeks ago, but the ‘Cats backs had improved enough to throttle Furman’s passer Clyde Hewell. Stasavich praised his defensive unit which he said has developed “far beyond expectation.” He also lauded his tailback Neal Hughes, a 165-pound senior from Asheboro. Earlier this season the Pirate coach said he foresaw some problems at the tailback slot, but as the season progressed Hughes’ play changed his tune. Throughout their first two games (with William and Mary and Richmond) the Pirates, who use the single wing formation, remained a running team. In their opener with William and Mary, which was dubbed by some sportswriters as the conference ‘Game of the Season,’ the Pirates picked up only 32 yards passing but had a ground bag of 233 yards. Fullback Butch Colson, a sophomore from Elizabeth City, came in midway of the first half against William and Mary when starter George Gay suffered a broken leg. The sophomore sub chalked up 133 yards in 23 carries to establish himself as a serious threat to any defensive line. The end spots are currently Stasavich's biggest headache, he said. “The end play has been satisfactory but not outstanding. They have dropped a few passes but have blocked pretty well.” Sparking the end play will be Jimmy Adkins, Paul Schnurr, Joe Teslo, and Bob Withrow. Stasavich, who was elected to the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame and runner-up for the national small college coach of the year in 1960, also praised the kicking. “Our kicking has improved with the addition of (Don) Tyson and (Billy) Wrightman, who averages 39.7 yards a punt.” When asked how he rated Quarterback Jimmy Poole, Stasavich replied, “He will be a good test for our defense. Last year he gained considerable against us and we will be watching him.” One of those watching will be sophomore Lackie George Wheeler, a defensive standout who recovered a fumble and intercepted two passes against Richmond. Wheeler, conference defensive player of the week, will be among those Stasavich will be counting on to put the pressure on Poole. “This weekend may prove very trying for Wheeler,” Stasavich said. Although the Pirates are generally favored to win tomorrow, Stasavich is still maintaining a cautious front. “They (the ‘Cats) are a real good football team,” he said. “They have a good offense and are well drilled.”

OPEN KITCHEN

CORFAM* TASSELS
1318 W. Morehead
TRADITIONAL WING TIP
Here they are, new ideas in the Phi Bates classic tradition. These handsome tasseled wing tips are fashioned in Corfam®, that marvelous new man-made upper material that is lightweight, comfortable, and easy to care for. Come in today for a real treat.
$25.00
"Dale's Trademark
Bush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N.C.
Greenville, S.C.