Page Four October 6, 1887

The portion of Interstate 77 nearest Davidson, originally scheduled for completion by October 15, will not be finished until sometime in January, State Highway Commission sources said. The section from Charlotte to Statesville is planned for completion in about two years. Contractors are Asheville Construction Company of Asheville and Crowder Construction Company of Charlotte.

The Davidsonian

CONSTRUCTION CREEPS ALONG I-77

Anna Russell To Headline Artist Series Performances

Anna Russell will open this year’s Artist Series with her performance here on Oct. 13. Five performances, ranging from the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra to Shakespeare to a two-performer dramatic presentation, will highlight the series.

Miss Russell is a lampooner of operatic masterpieces. She is the composer of her own works such as “Schreechenrauf, the aria to end all Wagnerian arias.” The London-born performer writes, composes, and arranges all of her own special material. Miss Russell studied opera and gave the opera a try professionally before she turned comedienne.

After a year’s lapse, an Artist Series performance is again included in the Homecoming weekend activities.

On Nov. 3, the touring American Classical Theatre will present Shakespeare's “The Comedy of Errors.” According to a brochure, the group is “a non-profit company dedicated to the encouragement and development of the arts.”

The world premiere of “Concerto for Voice and Orchestra” will be performed Jan. 15 by the Chicago Little Symphony and soloist Ilona Kombrink. The musical work is by Wilmer Welsh, associate professor of music.

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, with violinist Edith Peinemann, will appear Feb. 8. Their program will include Wagner's funeral march from “Gotterdammerung” and “Time-Span No. 2” by George Rochberg.

The last performance of the series on Mar. 20 will be “A Wilde Evening with Shaw,” a stage dramatization of the lives and wit of Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw. Originally directed by the late Sir Cedric Hardwicke, the program is now being performed by Richard Gray and Miss Mayo Loiseau. Both appeared here last year in a similar program.

ROGER CLARK . . . beating victim

Roommates May Influence Educational Performance

ROBERRY CLAIMS PAID

Students’ Losses Replaced

About $200 in claims has been paid to students who lost clothing in last week's robberies of the College Laundry. Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks said Wednesday that the college had paid all claims to 17 students and would continue payment as additional claims were made.

Youth Charged In Clark Case

By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

A Mooresville youth has been charged with assaulting freshman Roger Clark on Sept. 25. The attack occurred about 10 p.m. on Main Street between the post office and the college church. According to Clark, friends of the youth returned to the campus on Sept. 26 and were cornered by students and campus and town police. Members of the group revealed the boy’s name. Jim Terry, assistant dean of students, declined to disclose the name of the boy charged in the warrant. Monday Clark signed a warrant for a charge of simple assault. The case will be heard in Mecklenburg County Recorder's Court.

Terry said that Clark did not have student insurance but that he did have other insurance which would pay part of his expenses in the accident. Clark underwent surgery at a Charlotte hospital for a broken nose. His glasses and watch were reportedly damaged in the scuffle.

Episcopal Church Hopes To Get Minister Again

St. Alban's Episcopal Church in Davidson expects to obtain a priest by Jan. 1, according to Thomas S. Sadler, the church's senior warden. The church has not had a minister since December 1966, when the Rev. Robert Morris accepted a call to a position in Mississippi. Until June of this year, Dr. W. Brown Patterson Jr., associate professor of history, who is an ordained Episcopal minister, served as the priest at St. Alban’s. He left to study in Cambridge, England on a leave of absence. Since his departure, the church has had the services of visiting ministers. Several ministers from various parts of North Carolina have officiated. Despite the assistance it has received from these sources, the church's activities have been limited. Recently, the church was unable to hold a scheduled communion service due to the lack of an ordained priest.

Fund Drive Reaches $2500

Over $2500 has been raised so far in the YMCA fund drive, YMCA President Dick Lindsey said. Eventual goal is $3000. Over $1000 has been contributed by the freshman class, with 100 percent contributing on several halls. “We are grateful to all those who gave,” Lindsey said, “and especially to those who helped with collection.”

The $3500 YMCA budget includes several special programs in addition to club expenses. The Y purchases materials used by STEP, Stimulus, and the scouting program, as well as providing speakers for the Great Issues program. The Y also pays transportation expenses for Davidson students working in local churches.

Monday—Friday Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA

WANTED: Men and women to trainfor civil service examinations. We prepare men and women age 18-55, no experience necessary. Grammar school education usually sufficient. Permanent jobs, no layoffs. Short hours, high pay and advancement. Stay on present job while training. For a list of jobs and salaries send name, address, phone number and time at home. If rural, give directions to home.

The laundry is covered by both fire and theft insurance, Stacks said, and it will file a claim with its insurance company as soon as the total losses have been determined. Davidson police, who are investigating along with the Mecklenburg County police and campus security officers, said today they had turned up no leads. The robberies occurred on the nights of Sept. 26 and 28. Police said the thief or thieves entered the laundry through windows on the east side. The robbers “knew what they wanted,” according to Stacks. Most of the shirts taken were ban-lon knits, he said, and the trousers were of “high quality.” In addition to the clothing, the thieves took a partially empty crate of soft drinks and money from the cash register. They got about $28 on the first night and $27.25 on the second, Stacks said.

By Intercollegiate Press

ROCHESTER, N.Y.—Do college roommates affect each other’s academic performance? For certain groups of students, the answer is yes, according to a study on Roommate Choice and Academic Achievement recently conducted by Robert A. Pierce, instructor in psychiatry at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and clinical psychologist in the university’s Student Health Service. Colleges and universities tend to regard the provision of housing facilities for their students as a service—perhaps more for parents than students—rather than as an educational tool, Pierce says. However, housing arrangements do appear to have educational implications, according to his survey of two groups of students and their roommates. He found that the students in the fall semester of a class in introductory psychology tended to achieve at a level similar to that of their roommates, but that there were differences when the group was broken down by sex and by class. For the overall group, only men’s achievement levels were significantly related to those of their roommates. Broken down by class, however, the survey showed that freshmen, “who are for the most part arbitrarily assigned to each other, tend to accommodate their level of achievement to that of their roommates.” Among upperclassmen, who are free to choose their roommates, it appeared that “men choose roommates who achieve similarly to themselves... while women seem to pay no attention to this at all.”

Repeating the study with the spring semester class and their roommates, Pierce again found that the overall group tended to achieve at a level similar to that of their roommates, as did the freshmen. “But the findings that upperclassmen match their levels of achievement even more closely to that of their roommates, or choose roommates of similar achievement levels, was not borne out in the second study,” he said. On the basis of his findings, Dr. Pierce concluded that “among certain groups of students, school achievement correlates positively between roommates” and that “overachievement” probably accounts for a fair portion of this effect. (An overachiever was defined in the study as a student whose class standing at the end of the semester or of the academic year was higher than his ability as measured by College Board scores.) The latter conclusion was based on the fact that of the roommate pairs whose achievements were most similar, nearly half showed mutual overachievement, rather than mutual underachievement, “convergence” (the brighter student underachieved and the less bright student overachieved), or “divergence” (the brighter student overachieved and the less bright student underachieved).

Senior Watches Rioting, Studies Culture In China

“Hong Kong is every bit as exotic and mysterious as the travel posters claim,” said George Shaw. A Davidson senior, Shaw studied last summer at the University of Hong Kong. Shaw was part of a group of 20 American students sponsored by Florida Presbyterian College. The group flew from San Francisco on June 26, stopping for nine days in Taiwan and then heading for the University of Hong Kong. Shaw, a history major, took a course in Chinese culture and a seminar on contemporary China. All courses were taught in English.

Rioting broke out while Shaw was in Hong Kong. There was a border clash on July 8 in which five British border guards were killed by the Red Chinese. A group of leftists bombed some of the transportation lines. For two nights the British declared an 8 p.m. curfew on the city. The bombing soon quieted down and peace returned to Hong Kong. Shaw said that “the riots were generally overplayed in the American press.” Despite the rioting, Shaw said that the people of Hong Kong were very friendly and courteous. He met many youths of the city at the university’s library and the Hong Kong equivalent of a student union. Shaw said that eating with chopsticks was fun. While in Hong Kong, he enjoyed such Chinese dishes as century egg, beggar’s chicken, and Peking duck.