ARAN o ‘a y 3 (Staff Photo by Weems)

BRYAN ORBITS DISCUS

Sets Pace In IMAC Meet

Delts Rip Foes In IMAC Meet

By CHARLES BROCKWELL
Sports Writer

The Phi Delts crushed all opponents in the IMAC track meet held Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons. Led by Wayne Huckel, Tony Orsbon, and John Fagg, the Delts managed to grab three first-place finishes and place in everything except the 220-yard dash and the low hurdles. Huckel scored six points by virtue of a first in the broad jump and a fourth in the 100-yard dash. Orsbon and Fagg each scored five points while placing in two events. Dave Moser and Wayne Rhodes grabbed the other first-place finishes for the Delts—Moser in the 660 and Rhodes in the high jump.

The Phi Gams finished a distant second as Tom Caldwell put forth a strong performance, scoring 10 points with firsts in the 100 and the 220. The Fiji relay team also coasted in with the best time. Mike Dickens heaved the shot over 47 feet to lay claim to a first place for the Machis. He tied Joe Rice of the Betas for second in the high jump. Rick Mildner and Bill Bryan also got first places for the Machis. Eddie Rice managed to grab individual honors for the day, as he totaled all the Kappa Sig’s points, scoring one first and two seconds. He set a new IMAC record for the 440 with a time of 53.5 seconds, eclipsing the old mark set in 1959 by two-tenths of a second.

Although failing to have a first-place finisher, the Betas proved strong in several events and finished fourth in the meet. Sam Cathey and Bill Taylor scored well in the 100, 220, and low hurdles for the Beta cause. The SAEs edged the ATOs for fifth place on the performance of Harry Bishop, who placed second in the 1,320-yard run and fourth in the 660. Robert Dean scored five of the Tau's points with a first in the 1,320. Bob McKellar and Steve Brown did the scoring for the SPEs, while Tom Baker and Bob Pickens led the Pikas. Bruce Banderbloemen and Kirk Reed were the only ones for the KAs who placed in the scoring.

100-yard dash: (1) Caldwell (Gam) — 10.8 (2) Rice (Sig) (3) Cathey (Beta) (4) Huckel (Delt).
1,320-yard dash: (1) Dean (ATO) — 3:38.9 (2) Bishop (SAE) (3) Hunt (Delt) (4) Vanderbloemen (KA).
Low hurdles: (1) Mildner (Machi) — 14.6 (2) Taylor (Beta) (3) Carter (SAE) (4) Rhymes (Gam).
440-yard dash: (1) Rice (Sig) — 53.5 (2) Davis (Gam) (3) Orsbon (Delt) (4) Brown (SPE).
220-yard dash: (1) Caldwell (Gam) — 24.1 (2) McKellar (SPE) (3) Cathey (Beta) (4) Reed (KA).
660-yard dash: (1) Moser (Delt) — 1:32.9 (2) Rice (Sig) (3) Crosswhite (Delt) (4) Bishop (SAE).
Half-mile relay: (1) Gam — 1:41.6 (2) Delts (3) Beta (4) Machi.
Shot put: (1) Dickens (Machi) — 47-10½ (2) Baker (Pika) (3) Fagg (Delt) (4) Newberry (Gam).
Discus: (1) Bryan (Machi) — 128-9½ (2) Fagg (Delt) (3) Ray (Beta) (4) Murphy (ATO).
Broad jump: (1) Huckel (Delt) — 19-6½ (2) Orsbon (Delt) (3) Rhymes (Gam) (4) Pickens (Pika).
High jump: (1) Rhodes (Delt) — 5-8 (2) (tie) Rice (Beta) and Dickens (Machi) (4) Sheldon (Delt).

Falcons Hit ’Cats In Diamond Debut

The Wildcat baseballers traveled to Misenheimer Wednesday to play the first of two exhibition games with Pfeiffer's Falcons. The ‘Cats round out their exhibition schedule here Saturday in what will be the first game on the Wildcats’ new diamond. Buddy Durham, Gene Bennett, and Charlie Elliott saw mound duty for the ‘Cats, as Coach Tom Stevens decided to let his senior moundsmen have the first game of the season. Each team will use three pitchers Saturday in an effort to let everyone have some game experience before the season opens officially on Monday. The ‘Cats host Virginia Monday and Tuesday. The first conference games are in a doubleheader here next Friday against West Virginia.

Gene Bennett looked especially sharp on the mound for the ‘Cats in his three-inning stint. Most of the few mistakes which were made were the result of not having played for a long time, and nearly all would have to be classified as mental rather than physical errors. Other bright spots for the ‘Cats, who vow, “We'll win our share this year,” were Frank Murphy, whose speed should be a great asset; Jack Smith in centerfield, who also has good speed; big Hank Strickland, who will be one of the finest catchers around this year; and several others. Once the team gains some confidence, the ‘Cats could be tough this year. Stevens announced that the new field would be equipped with an electric scoreboard and a public address system and that the whole works would be dedicated in a formal ceremony on May 6.

Netmen Eye SC Replay

By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

In an effort to repeat last year’s Southern Conference championship, Coach Harry Fogleman’s fun-loving netters set out to open a rugged schedule here at 2 p.m. Tuesday against Northwestern, one of the top Big 10 teams. Fogleman was cautious in predicting the plight of this year's squad, but he did concede that “we'll have another winning season. We are pretty strong all the way down the line, and I think that we can win the conference on our depth.”

Esmond Phelps will rate the No. 1 slot in Fogleman’s tentative two-game lineup. Playing behind Phelps will be Sam Hatcher, Dan Hearon, captain Peter Parrott, Geordie Mueller, and Dave Jennings. “Hatcher and Phelps are playing better than last year,” remarked Fogleman. “I would say Hearon and Jennings are the most improved.”

The most striking loss is the absence of Steve and Woody Faulk. Steve transferred to Tulane, while Woody left for a year in Germany. “Woody was playing wonderfully,” said Fogleman. And referring to brother Steve, he added, “Since tennis is a non-subsidized sport, we lost one of our best potential players to a school that gave him a scholarship.”

The consensus of the team is that the season will be tough but that they have the team to meet it. “We've got a rough schedule,” said Hatcher, “but we have the potential to do well with it. We'll really have to play our best in a few matches.” Parrott added that he expected a harder schedule than ever before. “It's a long schedule. We'll have to have a better balanced team than in the past, which I think we have. This year we get a chance to play some Big 10 schools and can get a look at what tennis is like outside of the conference.” Phelps said he thought the season would be more challenging but he was looking forward to the lid-lifter. “The whole team.”

Cannon I Racks Freshman Field

Cannon I completely dominated the field events in the freshmen division of the IMAC track meet to grab first place. Pat Mullen and Steve Butler both managed to win one event and place in another, Mullen winning the shot put and Butler the discus. Tommy Norwood gave the team some balance by pulling out a victory in the 1,320-yard run. Another big man for Cannon I proved to be Scott Davis, who placed second in both the broad jump and the high jump and third in the 440.

The greatest individual performance was given by Whit Morrow, who led Watts with firsts in the 220 and 440 plus a second in the 100-yard dash. Carl Salter added to the glory of Watts by running first in the 100 ahead of Morrow and by throwing the discus well enough for fourth. East II lost second place to Watts by a single point despite the fact that Glenn Praay won the broad jump and Ken Hill the high jump. Hill also managed to place second in the 220 and third in the 100. Mike Culbreth showed his strength in the field events, grabbing second, third, and fourth-place finishes. He and Steve Hayes, who finished behind Norwood in the 1,320 and fourth in the high jump, led the Cannon II aggregation to its fourth place finish. Pierce Irby and Davis Liles, scoring in the shot put and broad jump respectively, gave East I its only points of the afternoon, as they placed a distant fifth in the meet.

100-yard dash: (1) Salter (W) — 10.35 (2) Morrow (W) (3) Hill (EII).
1,320-yard run: (1) Norwood (CI) — 3:47.3 (2) Hayes (CI) (3) Walker (EII) (4) Herring (EII).
Low hurdles: (1) Kilpatrick (W) — forfeit.
440-yard dash: (1) Morrow (W) — 54.2 (2) Bartle (CI) (3) Davis (CI).
220-yard dash: (1) Morrow (W) — 24.0 (2) Hill (EII) (3) Berry (CI).
660-yard dash: (1) (EII) — forfeit.
Half-mile relay: (1) CII — forfeit.
Shot put: (1) Mullen (CI) — 47-8½ (2) Butler (CI) (3) Irby (EI) (4) Culbreth (CI).
Discus: (1) Butler (CI) — 124-11 (2) Culbreth (CI) (3) Mullen (CI) (4) Salter (W).
Broad jump: (1) Praay (EII) — 19-10¾ (2) Davis (CI) (3) Liles (EI).
High jump: (1) Hill (EII) — 5-8 (2) Davis (CI) (3) Mickler (CI) (4) Harp (CII).

Runners Begin In Double Meet

By DON SEWELL
Sports Writer

Davidson's varsity cindermen get the outdoor track season underway with a double meet against High Point and Wofford here Saturday. The meet begins at 1:30 p.m. with the field events, followed by the track events at 2. The meet will be scored as two separate meets—not as aTriangular match. “I will be disappointed if we do not win both meets,” said Coach Heath Whittle. “I have a much stronger and better-balanced team this year than last.” Bill Randolph, Tom Baker, Roane Cross, and Tom Newberry will throw the shot in Saturday's meet. Randolph placed fourth in the Southern Conference indoor meet, and Whittle expects him to win the event. Bill Bryan, John Fagg, Phil Ray, Cross, and Randolph will throw the discus, with Bryan the top threat. Bill Kendrick and Randolph are entered in the javelin. Assistant coach Sterling Martin commented that Kendrick is a potential conference champion in this event and that he should do a strong job Saturday. Greg Cox and Lou Hill are Davidson's entrants in the broad jump and the triple jump. Both are good in the triple jump event and they could provide a one-two finish in the event. George Rogister, Tony Orsbon, and Cox will be doing the high jumping for the Wildcats. Bill Blackstock is the only Davidson contestant in the pole vault. “Our team is especially strong in the field events. We should be able to win a great many points in those events Saturday," added Whittle. Tom Caldwell and Cox will run the 100-yard dash for the ‘Cats. Caldwell has been doing well in practice and has a good chance to win the event. Caldwell and Charles Cameron will enter in the 220-yard dash. Eddie Rice, Mike Moates, John Flowers, and Bill Davis will run the 440. Rice, the strongest Davidson contender, is expected to finish well in the meet. Barry St. Clair, an outstanding cross-country runner last fall, has a good chance to win the 880. Randy Philips will be carrying the distance load alone Saturday. Philips is entered in both the mile and the two-mile runs. Rogister will run the high hurdles and the 330 intermediate hurdles. Cox will join him in the 330-yard event. A team consisting of Caldwell, Cameron, Rice, and Cox will run the 440 relay for Davidson. Flowers, St. Clair, Moates, Davis, or Rice will compete in the mile relay. Whittle commented that he does not know much about the strength of either of Saturday's opponents. He added that his team should be in comparable condition because this will be the first outdoor meet for all three schools. Neither High Point nor Wofford has indoor facilities. Whittle concluded, “All in all, I am expecting a good performance to start off a good season.” Hill, he said, “is out to repeat our Southern Conference championship.” He added that he especially liked the trips. The Wildcats will face solid roadblocks in addition to Northwestern, Harvard, Clemson. Rollins and Presbyterian offer the toughest test outside the conference. The stiffest opposition within the SC should come from George Washington, The Citadel, and Furman. After the Northwestern match, the netters face Dartmouth, Kent State, Randolph Macon, and Purdue on subsequent days here before setting out on the Florida swing during vacation, which includes Florida Southern, Rollins, Jacksonville, Hope, and Emory. “The Southern Conference might be a dog-fight,” cited Parrott. “George Washington and The Citadel have some strong sophomores. But the addition of Dan Hearon will be a big boost to us, especially his exemplary sportsmanship.” The culmination of the tennis slate will be the conference tournament to be played at Furman May 8-10. The Wildcats racked up a perfect score in last season’s tourney.

IMAC RESULTS
Phi Delt 34
Phi Gam 22
Sigma Chi 18½
Beta 13
Kappa Sig 11
SAE 6½
ATO 6
SPE 4
Pika 4
KA 2
Pi Kapp 0
Sigma Nu 0
Independents 0

FRESHMEN
Cannon I 35
Watts 24
East II 23
Cannon II 15
East I 3

The Davidsonian
March 17, 1967
Page Five

(Staff Photo by Olson)

FOGLEMAN TIPS TOP SIX ON FORM
Phelps, Parrott, Hearon, Hatcher, Jennings, and Mueller Listen Initial Match Runaways Exhibit Golfers’ Strength

By GEORGE ROBINSON
Sports Writer

The Davidson linksters gave strong support to predictions of another top season when they solidly trounced The Citadel, GW, and Furman in a four-way match Monday at Myrtle Beach, S.C. The Wildcats enjoyed margins of 17½-½ over The Citadel, 17-1 against GW, and 13½-4½ over the Paladins in completing their conference requirement. With all but three men returning from last year’s Southern Conference championship squad, the Davidson golf team will be a strong favorite to repeat their previous performance. Senior captain Joe Jelks, juniors Johnny Giles, George Leight, and Bruce Vanderbloemen, and sophomores Cary Hite and Mike Spann are expected to lead the attack. Seniors Walter Daniel and Tucker Laxton, junior Tucker Dalton, and sophomore K.D. Weeks will add depth to the squad. Dr. Scott said, “We have a better-balanced team this year, and we will be a strong contender, favored to win the title again.” Last year the linksters dominated the tournament, sweeping the first four places and drubbing second-placed William and Mary by 21 strokes and third-placed West Virginia by 32 in the 36-hole medal play. The above two teams will provide the toughest competition this season, Scott predicted. During spring break the linksters will compete in the Cape Coral Invitational Tournament in Florida. This tourney features such outstanding teams as defending champion Florida, Florida State, Louisiana State, Purdue, Columbia, Princeton, North Carolina, Duke, and Wake Forest. The Wildcats will play their home matches at the Charlotte Country Club and Quail Hollow Country Club. Working under a real handicap, the linksters have no course of their own like some conference schools and can practice only two days a week at the Mooresville Golf Course. Dr. Scott expressed a need for more freshman players to fill out the freshman squad. All interested frosh should fill out an eligibility slip which can be obtained in Dr. Scott's office.

Matmen To Visit Nationals

Seven members of Davidson's strong wrestling team will represent the school in the NCAA national championship wrestling tournament next weekend at Kent State University in Ohio. The grapplers will be setting out to break the string of defeats suffered by Davidson wrestlers at the nationals. No wrestler from a ‘Cat squad has ever won a match in that tournament. The event is an open tournament with any qualified NCAA wrestler eligible to enter. Coach Charles Parker expects around 300 of the best collegiate wrestlers in the nation to participate. Such wrestling powers as Oklahoma, Oklahoma State, Michigan State, Maryland, and Iowa will be present. “We are looking forward to going,” commented Parker. “We will be taking some good boys who will be doing their best. But primarily, we are making the trip for experience in the national tournament.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON CHARLOTTE BLVD.
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414

217 N. Tryon St.
Pipe Smoker
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
maton michel 375-9723 Charlotte

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1818 W. Morehead

Sailors Swamp Devils To Face Lake Norman

In their first regatta of the spring intercollegiate racing series, the Davidson Wildcats sailed away from Duke. It was an impressive win for the ‘Cats. With each school sailing three of Davidson's Jet 14's, Davidson took the three-out-of-five series with a 3-1 score. After dominating the start of the first race, the three Davidson boats finished one-three-four for an easy victory. Davidson skipper Tom Kirtley took the first followed by Duke's Walters, Davidson's Chip Robertson, Davidson's Jim Lee, Duke’s McChesney, and Duke’s Nauta. The second race was another win for Davidson. Robertson took the first for the ‘Cats followed by Kirtley in second and Lee in fifth place. At this point Davidson began to make substitutions. Ben Reeves and Bob Murphy replaced Robertson and Chip Bellamy. In the third race, a foul at the next to last mark disqualified one Davidson boat, which otherwise would have brought about the margin of victory, so Kirtley’s second and Reeves’ third were not enough as Davidson registered its only loss of the day. In the fourth race, Robertson and Bellamy replaced Lee and Bob Albee for Davidson. Rounding the weather mark, Davidson held two-three-four, but on the downwind leg, the three Davidson boats spread out and blocked off the wind to the leading Duke boat enough that Robertson was able to overtake first place before the leeward mark. Robertson held this position the second time around the triangular course to finish first, followed by Reeves in second and Kirtley in fifth. This gave Davidson the necessary third race and the regatta. This weekend the sailors go to defend the “Warm-Up Cup" title against the Lake Norman Yacht Club.

The ELK’S RESTAURANT
Now Operated Under New Management
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas
Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course