To H. Edmunds White, “we ordinarily might not have.” Mike Bates, a special editorial correspondent, begins a four-part examination on page three of the proposed draft of a faculty constitution by explaining the significance of the document if it is adopted.

Publication Race
Juniors Sam Boyte and Tom Cook have filed as candidates for editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and juniors Kirk Reed and Lindsay Davis will run for editor of Quips and Cranks. Elections will be Thursday.

Boyte, a history major from Winston-Salem, is currently managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He has previously been a sportswriter, assistant sports editor, and news editor. He has participated in Stimulus, student recruiting, intramural sports, drama productions, and advanced ROTC. He has written sports and news and done desk work on the Charleston, S.C. News and Courier.

Cook is a history major from Perry, Ga. A member of Pi Kappa Alpha, he is currently sports editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and has previously been a sportswriter and assistant managing editor. He has served as a student representative to the Davidson Athletic Council, is the only student member of the Southern Conference Sportswriters Association, and is taking advanced ROTC. He has worked as a police reporter and desk man on the Macon (Ga.) Telegraph and as assistant circulation manager of a Memphis weekly.

Davis is associate editor of the annual this year. Calling for “an annual that is not stereotyped, but new, different, and representative of our class and college,” Davis suggests in his platform that “the candidate must present himself as one who has the interest, the organizational ability, and above all the originality to make an annual interesting and representative.”

Reed is a McConnell Scholar from Columbus, Ga. He is vice-president of Phi Eta Sigma and has served on Quips and Cranks as sports editor and classes editor. Reed's platform calls for one-third to one-half of the annual to be devoted to informal pictures and the reinstatement of sports action pictures. “In short,” says Reed, “a book that is permeated with life and that tries to capture in pictures and words the unique personality of the 1967-68 Davidson community.”

Epidemic Not Result Of Food
Food poisoning has been ruled out as a possible cause of last week's epidemic, according to Dr. James B. Woods, college physician. The illness which struck the campus last Thursday was attributed to the Union food at supper by many students. Wayne H. Shroyer, district supervisor of the food service which operates the Union cafeteria, said that 50 or 60 samples of the food served were turned over to the Mecklenburg County Health Department. According to Shroyer, health officials said that the samples revealed no harmful bacteria, and that the cause was “probably an airborne virus.” Shroyer conceded the possibility “that one pan of food became contaminated after it was ready to be served.” However, he maintained that “this was not a case of food poisoning.”

“The only difference between virus and food poisoning is the way in which it spreads,” said Woods. “With food poisoning, it hits everybody at once and is over.” A few were sick before Thursday, according to Woods, and then the avalanche came Thursday and Friday.

On page six, News Editor Robbie Hooker looks into the admission policy which is designed to accept athletes and sons of alumni whom, according to H. Edmunds White, “we ordinarily might not have.”

Featured This Week
A proposed constitution for the faculty and the Admission Department's point system designed to admit borderline applicants are examined in this week’s DAVIDSONIAN, which also features a page devoted to letters attacking the editor’s advocation of desubsidized athletics.

Earnhardt, Hunt, Prosser, Watson To Seek Presidency
Elections Thursday For Student Offices
Ten candidates had announced their intention of running for one of three student body offices before THE DAVIDSONIAN’S Wednesday night deadline. Four rising seniors, Tom Earnhardt, Ron Hunt, Julian Prosser, and Bill Watson, announced their candidacy for the presidency of the student body. Bayard Miller, Mike Dickens, Fletcher Hartsell, and Bobby Vagt will run for vice-president. Freshmen Mac Davis and Sam Darby have indicated their plans to run for secretary-treasurer.

Speeches by the presidential candidates will be made in chapel on Wednesday. On Thursday, elections will be held for student body officers, publications editors, and defense advisor to the Honor Court.

All four vice-presidential candidates are participants in some kind of varsity competition. Dickens, a McConnell Scholar from Fayetteville, is a member of Sigma Chi and PRAM in addition to participation on the varsity basketball squad. Miller, presently serving as secretary-treasurer of the Student Body, is from Gainesville, Fla. and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He was president of the Freshman Council last year, won a letter in soccer this fall, and is also a McConnell Scholar.

Also seeking the position of vice-president is Fletcher Hartsell, a sophomore representative to the Student Council from Concord. He is also vice-president of the Debate Club, a member of the varsity debate team, a participant in STEP, and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Hartsell won the Outstanding Debater cup in 1966 and participated in the State Student Legislature.

The fourth vice-presidential candidate is Bobby Vagt, a native of Naugatuck, Conn. Vagt is presently a member of the IFC Judicial Board and publicity chairman of the Social Council. He is the IFC representative of Pi Kappa Alpha and also community service chairman of the fraternity. He won a varsity letter in swimming this year.

Mac Davis is running for secretary-treasurer of the Student Body after serving as president of the Freshman Council this year. A native of Jacksonville, Fla., he is also a member of the freshman swimming team. Davis’ opponent, Sam Darby, is from Roanoke, Va. He is a staff writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN, chairman of the Union Open End. Additional activities include participation as a YMCA hall discussion leader and freshman representative to the Residence Hall Committee.

The position of defense advisor to the Honor Court is being sought by Tom Rhodes, a junior from Lynchburg, Va. Rhodes is president of the Debate Club, a member of the Student Council's Educational Planning Committee and chairman of the Student Council Gym Project, and a member of Sigma Chi. During the 1966-67 debate season, Rhodes was the highest scoring varsity debater.

INSTITUTIONALIZED RACISM
‘Whites Get Land; Blacks, The Bible’
By GARY SIGMON
Staff Writer

Popular hysteria over Black Power is just one more evidence of the institutionalization of racism in Western civilization according to the view of George Ware, a Student Non-Violence Coordinating Committee campus coordinator who visited Davidson yesterday. He said that throughout the history of Western civilization there has been a people who have said “what's happening” and then tried to change and control other people. He gave as an example the white people infiltrating Africa. “When the white man first came to Africa, the black man had the land and the white man had the Bible. Now the white man has the land and the black man still has the Bible,” he claimed.

SNCC’s Role Justified
By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

SNCC's advocation of Black Power is the best way to give to the Negro the rights he deserves as a human being and as a builder of the U.S., claimed George Ware yesterday afternoon. Ware sees, as a fundamental problem in his organization's fight, the incapability of American society to condemn itself. “The S.N.C.C has condemned it for the way it has treated black power,” he announced.

He feels that most of S.N.C.C.’s efforts need to be directed toward organizing blacks. Although a number of separate civil rights groups are currently at work, he pointed out that there seemed to be no necessity in their unification since their work is being concentrated in different areas. Ware was associated for six years with the S.N.C.C. while it proclaimed a doctrine of “non-violence” but he now rejects this method of “appeal to man's moral conscience” as having failed. He indicated that the S.N.C.C. woulduse any legal means to achieve its aims and he emphasized the effectiveness of political and economic channels. Although Negroes number approximately one-tenth of the population, he claimed that because of certain areas of concentration they could potentially control thirty congressional seats. S.N.C.C. voter education and registration have been designed to work toward a fuller use of black voting power.

TOM EARNHARDT
BILL WATSON
JULIAN PROSSER
RON HUNT

Presidential Stands Set

Three members of this year's Student Council and an Honor Court member will face off Thursday for the Presidency of the Student Body. First Vice President Julian Prosser, Second Vice-President Tom Earnhardt, Junior representative Bill Watson, and Honor Court Recorder Ron Hunt will address the Student Body during chapel Wednesday before elections the following day.

Earnhardt advocates a consistent number and quality of Artist Series performances and lectures as well as adequate publicity and greater financial support for them. The Educational Planning Program and the Student Recruiting Program should both be expanded, he contends. Other proposals include better dialogue between students and alumni through student programs at alumni and trustee meetings, subsidization of the Student Store for the purchase of non-textbooks, and representation for the newly proposed Residence Hall Council on the Student Council.

Hunt is advocating a five-point program which includes an increased student voice, particularly through the Blue Sky Committee, a better student exchange program and continued curriculum revision. He has called for reevaluation and revision of the Freshman Orientation Program, and emphasized that the Student Council must be “a motivating force within the Student Body rather than an elected group which merely meets once a week.”

Prosser’s platform places major emphasis upon changing and directing the development of college policy. He has outlined a cabinet-type set of advisers to the Student Body President who would probably be the student representatives on faculty committees and the establishment of student committees which would correspond to certain faculty committees and would pursue problems especially important to the Student Body. Prosser wants to continue utilizing the newspaper in arousing student opinion and to stimulate student awareness and involvement through hall discussions on specific problems.

Emphasizing the Student Council's failure to provide effective leadership during a crucial period of change, Watson is calling for the replacement of the Council by a campus government in the form of a Student Government Association. This association would consist of an Executive Committee, a Student Senate, nine standing committees, and a “College Meeting.” The Executive Committee would propose programs, the Senate would seek to implement them, and the standing committees would exert influence on corresponding faculty committees. The College Meeting would take place once a month and would be an open discussion between the College President, the two deans, and the student body.

Election Procedures Outlined; Dates Picked

Honor Court elections will be held March 14, and YMCA officers, freshman advisor, and cheerleaders will be chosen two days later, according to John Fagg, chairman of the election committee. Student Council elections and run-offs will end the three-week period with the final election on March 21 and the run-off the following day. Polls for all elections will be open from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the lobby of Chambers. Absentee ballots must be obtained in room 02 of Richardson Dorm at least 24 hours before the election. Filing must be done in Richardson 02 for offices by Sunday midnight before the week in which the election for that particular office takes place.

A recent change made by the Student Council makes it unnecessary for a member of the Honor Court to resign in order to run for a student body office or defense advisor, although the Honor Court post must be surrendered if the other post is won. An additional change requires that all cheerleaders stand for re-election each year. Old cheerleaders must nominate themselves with Fagg instead of through the squad itself.

Posters which were employed by several of the candidates in last week's Social Council and Union Board election were used after special permission was granted by the election committee. According to Fagg, no such posters can be utilized in the remaining elections.

Bloc Voting Prohibition Reaffirmed By Council

By BOB DUNHAM
Staff Writer

Student Council Monday night voted down a proposal by senior Louis Lesesne that the Student Council By-Law prohibiting bloc voting be dropped. The motion, which had been tabled at the previous meeting until members could study student reaction, failed by a vote of 8-5, with one abstention, just short of the two-thirds vote required for passage.

The vote came after a lengthy discussion on the possible results of the removal of the law. The center of this discussion was the role of a party system on campus, one of the possible outcomes of the move. The rule in question is section two of the by-laws, paragraph k, which reads: “Open discussion of candidates and issues is encouraged. However, organized solicitation and combines or efforts to encourage bloc voting or vote swapping along organizational lines shall be illegal. Any financial support of any candidate in any form whatsoever shall be illegal. The penalty for violation of any of these rules shall be the loss of voting privileges for all individuals involved and a fine of from $50 to $100 levied against all organizations involved.”

As revised the rule would have read: “Open discussion of candidates and issues is encouraged. However, any financial support for any candidate in any form whatsoever shall be illegal. The penalty for violation of this rule shall be the loss of voting privileges for all individuals involved.” This rule as proposed would still prohibit well-organized parties.

The discussion on the proposal brought out several different viewpoints on the merits of the party system on campus. Lesesne stated that although he was “certainly not advocating a party system,” he thought that the system might be a “good thing for Davidson.” One council member pointed out that there had been many changes made in election procedures, which do not coincide with this rule. Another stated that the proposed changes could make for “much more lively elections.” Council President Chuck Matthews advocated the party idea.

Athletic Issue Shunned

Until facts and figures concerning the issue could be presented, Student Council members decided to abstain from approval of a resolution for the approval of subsidized athletics Monday night. Both sides on the issue claimed to have “the facts” concerning the effect of subsidized athletics on the college. However, there was a considerable difference in the “facts” which each side presented.

John Fagg said that according to his sources, it would cost more to run a non-subsidized athletic program than the subsidized program now in progress. Opponents to subsidized athletics on the council stated that their sources revealed just the opposite. William Rikard, one council member who favored the subsidized program, backed up Fagg’s argument. He also stated that there were numerous misrepresentations in a letter which appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN last week which recommended the removal of subsidized athletics from the Davidson program.

George Ware

people are a group rendered powerless by the white man, “not because we're lazy, or have rhythm, or eat watermelons.” Ware remarked that Negro ghettos become slums because the black people don't own the businesses and establishments. Thus all profits go out of the ghetto into the pocket of the white owner. As an example of institutional racism he compared the death of four girls in a church bombing in Birmingham to the death of more than three hundred Negro babies due to a lack of medical facilities in the same town. The first act was an act of individual racism, but the second is what he calls institutional racism. The problem facing the Negro is how to fight this system. Education, the normal means of attaining success, is kept from the Negro, he said. Although the average level of education in the United States is the tenth grade, white people expect the Negro to surpass this to be accepted. “We must be supermen to be accepted and even then some refuse to us," Ware stated. But Ware was determined in his attitude of perseverance. “If the white Americans decide to play Germans, the Negro Americans will not play the Jews.”