The Davidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1967

A Warning

As the lack of a clearly-delineated decision-making process becomes more apparent at Davidson, the role of the college newspaper must become a more active voice for desired improvements. The past few years have seen the student body here realize its right and potential for influence, just as students have at other schools across the nation. Steps have been taken towards realization of this potential—with both positive and negative results.

Positively, these steps have resulted in more effective articulation of the interests of motivated individual students and of the student body as a whole. On the other hand, students, as well as an increasing percentage of the faculty and administration, are becoming more aware of the fact that the decision-making process at Davidson seems to be largely just a buck-passing process. It is also apparent that the exact route along which that buck is passed is indeed a very foggy road, the course of which is hidden to all but an experienced elite who sit in the driver's seat.

In the light of these conditions, the need grows for what might be called an institutionalized informal focus of articulation of college interests. THE DAVIDSONIAN as “The News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body” can serve this purpose in at least two important ways.

The first reflects the most superficial meaning that can be attributed to that slogan which appears on our nameplate. The paper can act directly as an open forum for students, faculty, alumni, or for anyone who is concerned enough about an issue to take the trouble to express himself in a letter to the editor. All letters are printed in as complete a manner as the limitation of space will allow. The fact that this is using the most superficial meaning of that motto does not mean that it is any less of a valid function.

The interest articulation function of the paper can be carried out in another way that is at the same time more individual than the idea of the open forum and more collective. This function is found in the area of the editorial positions taken by the newspaper. These decisions are relatively individual in the sense that they are not the result of polling the opinions of the entire student body. They are more collective in the sense that the basis of these decisions is not the interest of one individual, or of a small group, or even of the entire student body. Instead, editorial decisions are based on one desire that should unite all elements which are connected with the school: the basic desire to improve the status of the college.

This desire may seem so basic and so general that no effective decisions could spring from it. It is true that any sort of editorial campaign amounting to no more than a general urge for “Improvement” would be ineffective. Instead, this basic premise must be used as a scale with which to evaluate the stand to be taken on a given issue. Having reached such a decision, the paper then has the opportunity to take advantage of its position as the only comprehensive news source available about the college on a weekly basis.

Of course, no one would be conceited enough to believe that all people to whom this college is important stand outside their doors on every Friday evening anxiously awaiting THE DAVIDSONIAN. But it can be assumed that the paper is actively read by those who are most deeply concerned with the improvement of the school and who have the power necessary to implement improvements.

If anyone feels the need for a warning about what sort of philosophy will guide the operations of THE DAVIDSONIAN for the next year, then this is it. There are enough secretaries around the college who are getting paid to limit themselves to publishing announcements. For students to spend the necessary time and effort to put out an excellent newspaper, they must feel that their purpose is more than that, although that too is an important function of their work. The fact that the newspaper does have the most public voice in advocating means of improving the college is a convincing argument for expanding that effort.

Moral Education

The Alcohol Forum held on the past two nights has been an excellent idea, the partial success of which is immediately apparent. Although the effort cannot be called a complete success until it is seen whether the enthusiasm generated is lasting enough to bring about a solution to the college rules problem over consumption of alcohol, the fact that the forum brought discussion between the faculty and students may be even more important than what panel members said.

From the statements made by faculty members at last night’s program, objections to a “wet” campus seem to boil down to the maintenance of favorable study conditions on campus and to the role which the college should play in educating students to deal with what may be called a current moral problem in American society. Those who base their objections on the latter point seem to be concerned over what was called the growing tolerance of public drunkenness in our society, and the problems suffered in connection with individual cases of problem drinking. Dr. George Abernethy made a significant point in stating that it is not enough for a school to educate its students to deal with what is admittedly a drinking society by having them learn how to drink. It should be readily apparent that many of the problems of a drinking society can be handled effectively by non-drinkers and that the college should certainly not have required drinking.

The position thus far is sound. However, when the argument goes on to become a defense for the present faculty rule against the consumption of alcoholic beverages on campus it breaks down. The reason that it does is that the present policy has no basis for claiming to deal more effectively with this educational task than would a policy of required drinking. All that the faculty does now is prohibit drinking on campus. This is just a rule, not an educational process. The rule is actually irrelevant to educating students to deal with whatever problems do arise in a drinking culture. To term the rule irrelevant is to put it in its most favorable light because sound arguments can be used to show that the rule is more harmful than irrelevant. The harm stems from the often repeated, but still true, fact that it imposes an unrealistic situation.

The unrealistic aspect of that situation is not that it enforces an unnaturally dry atmosphere. Because of their close contacts with students, the faculty should be aware that students do drink in dormitories to a certain extent, even if a few Trustees and parents may not realize the fact. The unrealistic aspect is that it puts drinking in a context where it is supposed to be socially “illegal,” a situation that does not exist in the “sophisticated” environment from which students come and to which they return on leaving college. As all of the panel members admitted, the pressures of society are to drink. While the laws of North Carolina do not allow open bars or even “brown-bagging” right now, the state has recognized the popular acceptance of drinking alcoholic beverages by legalizing the sale of such products at least on the basis of local county options. The North Carolina laws are among the most conservative in the nation, but those of the faculty go even beyond them. The North Carolina laws at least do not prohibit the most civilized expression of the custom which is drinking in one’s home. The faculty, however, is doing exactly that, as a student’s dormitory room must be considered his home even though it does lack the aspects of civilization that are to be found in the environment from which most students come. Until the faculty rules do accept this sort of realism, they cannot effectively educate students about the moral problems that can stem from alcohol in our society.

ODD EASTER SERVICE

‘Smash-In’ ‘Be-In’ Are ‘In’ In New York

By MIKE NORRIS
Feature Writer

Easter Sunday in church? For the hip of New York the scene is Central Park's Sheep Meadow. Daffodils to the early morning arrivals. Bring a lunch or just mooch off others. Dress will be creative. Smash-ins to be held during the morning. Music? Live, including bongos, flutes, guitars, and 50-gallon steel drums. Balloons are provided. Girls? Yes—hot, nice, or strange. Most are friendly. Support the UFC (United Fruit Company) and smoke a banana. Festivities begin at sunrise and continue until after sunset.

Seven Easter morning in Central Park and I wander lonely as a cloud until some chic (sharp) wanders over, hands me this daffodil, kisses my cheek, and whispers “Love” in my ear. ‘Sure, baby, anytime,” I told her. And the Be-In was on. I began eating one of my two oranges when this clod in filthy clothes came up and told me, “I wouldlike an orange.’ I gave him one. He devoured it in seconds, threw the peel on the ground, and walked off. I stood there for a minute. Then some fellow walked up and handed me half of his loaf of French bread.

The word of Banana Hymn

‘Reflections’ (Ed. note: This poem was forwarded to THE DAVIDSONIAN by Dr. Alan Rhodes of the chemistry department of Cleveland State University. It has been reprinted in several newspapers as a protest against Vietnam and war in general.)

Why should you worry or give a damn
About what happens in Viet Nam?
Why is it any of your concern
If men and women and children turn?
Only a pacifist, saint or fool
Believes in stuff like the Golden Rule...
You know the answer—you know it well—
“This is a war and war is hell!"

Yes, war is hell for the men that fight,
the day was Love, and the motto must have been, “It's good to give.” Many people had brought food to share for breakfast and lunch. A few had brought bananas and grass to share—sparingly—for a mid-morning smoke. Most of the early arrivals gathered on a large rock overlooking the meadow. A few just lay around on blankets making out. Two multi-colored signs proclaiming their messages of “Simply Wonderful” and “Mush” were hung from a tree. One cat with the flaps of his WWII flying cap pulled down over his ears was resting in another. The whole hillside smelled of incense which had been purchased for 50 cents a pack at Village button stores and passed out to the crowd. The wind was blowing, so people began to fly kites. Some cat in a red army helmet with “LOVE” written across the back began to organize a smash-in. In this group activity, the participants join outstretched arms to form a gigantic circle. When the man in the red helmet blew his whistle, everyone ran headlong into the center, hugging one another and chanting “Love.”

Around 11, a number of cops showed up, thus sending the hippies into a mild frenzy. Action taken included bombardment with daffodils, the formation of mobs screaming “Love,” or the most beautiful action of all—the random selection of some poor cop wandering alone in Sheep Meadow to become the center of a gigantic smash-in. Attire for the day included top hats, miniskirts, and old Army uniforms. Many people had pasted small metal reflectors to their foreheads. Spiderman showed up complete with net webbing hanging from his armpits. In the afternoon, two men wearing suits made from strips of paper made an appearance. Girls with painted faces and miniskirts wandered throughout the crowd passing out jellybeans. Later, a man showed up with helium-filled balloons, for free or 10 cents—you paid if you felt like it. Balloons were tied together and bananas (whose inside peeling can be dried and smoked to produce a cheap marijuana effect) were sent floating out over the city. (One can only wonder how long it will be before the Narcotics Bureau files charges against the United Fruit Company.)

Impromptu music groups grew up everywhere. Their repertoires ranged from blues to folk, rock, and psychedelic.

On Vietnam

“This is war and war is hell!"
Try to project what your thoughts would be
If you left your home as a refugee:
Try to imagine the sense of fear
When the napalm scatters and flames appear...
What kind of feelings would it inspire
If you watched a child with its flesh on fire?
Could you find words for the pilots above
Who boast about morals and Christian love?
War is a gamble played with Fate
Where the stakes are high and the hour is late:
War is the writing seen on the wall
Pawns on a chessboard, brown and white: all...
It's time to worry and time to care,
War is death in a sea of mud
To the sound of bullets and stench of blood:
War is madness told as the truth,
Torturing women and crippling youth...
But you know the answer—you know it well—
Which threatens to come and engulf us all...
It's time to pity and time to share;
And see ourselves in the other man’s place,
It's time to consider the Human Race
Richard I. Briggs

One of the most popular groups included three bongos, a couple of guitars, a flute, and a three-foot model of a banana. Its repertoire was repetitious banana eulogies set to a psychedelic calypso beat. And so the day went. The Be-In grew from a hundred hippies to several thousand. TV cameras came and went. A large wooden cross was erected and decorated with balloons and daffodils. An altar-like construction was made from orange peels, popsicle sticks, and dirt. Hippies came and went. Some were really beautiful, enjoying a sunny day in the park by giving away whatever they'd brought with them. A few—a very few—were following the motto of “Give me.” For them, the hippy doctrine is only a justification of taking advantage of everyone else. The sun finally set and the last of the crowd wandered off. On 72nd Street, the hippies drifted home, reminding one another of the next major spring social rite—the April 15 demonstration to end the war in Vietnam.

Looking Backwards
By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Simply Out Of It

Paul Goodman’s The Community of Scholars, in which he analyzes what’s wrong in American higher education today and formulates some specific proposals to achieve what he thinks would be (and has been in the past) the proper role of a college, makes for interesting reading. Not everything he says is original, perhaps not all of it is even wise, though a large portion seems so to this participant in the knowledge mill. Much of what he says is predictable to anyone familiar at all with Goodman: he calls for the virtual abolition of an administrative structure. Goodman’s ideal is a small community of students, who are apprenticed to a group of professional scholars and workers (e.g., lawyers, doctors, businessmen) to train for civilization. There are no teachers per se, but only professionals who, in their devotion to their vocations, possess an intense desire to impart their knowledge to the young. So far, Goodman sounds like a one-man Blue Sky Committee. Artists-in-residence, a freer academic atmosphere, a relevant curriculum are all goals of most liberal-minded people concerned with the future of Davidson College.

However, Goodman realizes the necessity of library facilities, of cultural and social outlets, and the like. Facilities which are generally provided through the money-raising efforts of an active administration and in the context of a fairly sizeable university. Since he is attempting to rid his ideal college of both administration and size (and thereby return to an earlier era in the history of higher education), Goodman is faced with a problem. He finds a solution by locating his ideal either near a large city or at least a large university (although not under such a university's administrative jurisdiction). Obviously, this is not a final solution, depending as it does on an institution which Goodman would just as soon see extinct. However, he does not claim finality for his solution, viewing it instead as simply a beginning in an attempt to restore to higher education its proper functions.

Goodman does not even consider a college in a rural environment. Here is where I believe Davidson’s greatest problem lies. No matter how much the academic rules are liberalized, no matter how much the curriculum is made relevant, no matter how many artists-in-residence we get, the problem still remains. Davidson College is simply out of it. Not only is it rural, but it is Southern rural. Not only is it not near a major city, it’s not near any kind of academic community. Davidson must have strong administrative leadership to raise the tremendous amount of money necessary for any semblance of culturally relevant intellectual activity in such an isolated environment. Yet, such an emphasis on administration works to the detriment of the college, by turning it away from its proper functions. One result is the professional athletic spectacle: because the program (theoretically anyway) provides money and publicity, some find it invaluable to the college. Yet to me, it is obvious that such a program is also detrimental to the basic educational goals of Davidson.

In my view, for Davidson to survive as a reasonably good college, it must (in the not-too-distant future) choose either to relocate, or (and this is perhaps likelier) to embark on a program of expansion, such as the establishment of co-ordinate colleges, thereby creating the university environment while retaining a certain amount of smallness.

I gratefully acknowledge the aid I received from Sumner Bullard in deciding on a name for this column. Of course, it was taken from the title of the famous nineteenth-century utopian tract and social commentary of Edward Bellamy. I hope in this way it reflects the content of the column. The relevance of the title to any commentary on Davidson College written by a person trained in the Davidson tradition is, I trust, obvious.