| A ad HOLMGREN ILLUSTRATES POINT Visiting lecturer Harry D. Holmgren points out an equation illustrating his physics lecture, “Photographing
the Nucleus,” night. Holmgren’s visit to Davidson was sponsored by the American Association of Physics Teachers and the American Institute
of Physics. At the University of Maryland, Holmgren is director of the Cyclotron Project of the Department of Physics and
Astronomy. Thursday night he spoke on the topic “Nuclear Astrophysics,” under the sponsorship of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity.
(Staff Photo by Olson)

Coffee Houses Expand, Employ Fresh Talent
By MARVIN ELLISON
Staff Writer

Realizing the need for good entertainment on campus, schools across the country are joining the college coffee house circuit, which
began last year at Davidson. “This idea has been with C. Shaw Smith for a good while,” commented Peter Parrott,
College Union president. “Working on the premise that good talent does not mean necessarily expensive talent, we consistently get good
performers while these new names have the chance to play audiences around the country,” Parrott continued.

Before Smith, director of the Union, began to work out details for the circuit two years ago, he realized that
good talent could be booked for reasonable fees, but also that the students themselves would have to generate interest on
campus for these performers. Although few agents or managers offered encouragement at the Block Booking Conference in Raleigh in December,
Smith decided to go ahead with the idea. Fred Smoot, a comedian without a big name, appeared several times at
Davidson's Hungry I last spring, and the enthusiastic response he received encouraged Smith to find other schools to join the
circuit.

“Since Fred Smoot opened the Hungry I,” Parrott said, “eight colleges have joined in with us, and more than 40
others have shown definite interest.” Fred Winetraub, manager of the Bitter End in New York, “screened nine acts for a
group of college representatives who went to New York last summer to see the talent and work out a tentative
‘circuit,’” Smith added, and “the idea has caught on tremendously.” Jake Holmes, at the Hungry I last week, was the
first act on the circuit this year and has played three of the eight participating colleges and universities. After performing
at Duke, Holmes has been asked to play in concert there for their ‘Joe College’ weekend this spring. Steve Gillette,
who has sung with Ian and Sylvia, will be at Davidson later this year. Smith remarked that “schools have been
making inquiries, and the agents, once opposed to the idea, are now writing to add more talent to the circuit.”
“With the support of the students,” Parrott commented, “we hope that this new way of bringing entertainment to the campus
will develop more and more.”

YRC Asks That Flag Be Put In Auditorium

A committee from the Young Republicans Club has been appointed to talk with the administration about whether and when an
American flag should be displayed in Love Auditorium. The committee, appointed by President Joe Beard, is headed by freshman Bill
Schaffer. According to Beard, no action has been taken by the committee and none is anticipated by him until the
controversy of the American flag in the Feb. 8 chapel has subsided. Beard also commented that the putting up of
that flag “had nothing to do with the YRC.” The action was taken by himself and another student, Ron Dougherty,
who is not a member of the YRC. Though the club was not responsible for this action, Beard stated that
the general sentiment of the club was that there “should be a flag up there all the time as there
is in all auditoriums.” This was the reason for the creation of the committee and for the appropriation of $50
by the club to purchase a permanent flag and flag-holder, he explained.

Rawley Turner, ‘68, Succumbs In Roanoke

Rawley Turner, class of 1968, died at his home in Roanoke, Va., Feb. 9. Turner had dropped out of school
in November, after suffering severe leg pains. An English major, Turner was active in drama productions on campus. During his
freshman year, he was assistant to the director of the Chairs and also played the role of the Orator. His
sophomore year he played the part of Billings in An Enemy of the People. The same year he was in
the scene painting group for Green Grow the Lilacs, and he appeared in a workshop production of It Should Happen
to a Dog.

Loflin Receives Morehead Grant

A 1964 Davidson graduate has been named one of three Morehead Law Fellows for 1967. Tom Loflin, of Hendersonville, will
enter the law school at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on the fellowship valued at $2,500 a
year, plus tuition and fees, for each of the three years there. While at Davidson, Loflin was feature editor of
THE DAVIDSONIAN and held a Dana Scholarship. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He
has just returned from a tour of duty with the U.S. Army in Vietnam and is presently working with the
Greensboro Daily News. The first three Morehead Law Scholars entered UNC last September. Murray Smith, ‘66, was one of the
recipients then. The other two 1967 recipients are graduates of Duke University and UNC-CH.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SECOND SEMESTER 1967

May 24 (Wednesday A.M.) Second hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 24 (Wednesday P.M.) Fourth hour classes Tue., Thurs., Sat.
May 25 (Thursday A.M.) Sixth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 25 (Thursday P.M.) Fourth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 26 (Friday A.M.) Third hour classes Tue., Thurs., Sat.
May 26 (Friday P.M.) Third hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 27 (Saturday A.M.) First hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 27 (Saturday P.M.) First hour classes Tue., Thurs., Sat.
May 29 (Monday A.M.) Fifth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 29 (Monday P.M.) Second hour classes Tue., Thurs., Sat.
May 30 (Tuesday A.M.) Third hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 30 (Tuesday P.M.) First hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.
May 31 (Wednesday A.M.) First hour classes Tue., Thurs., Sat.
May 31 (Wednesday P.M.) Fifth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.

By Collegiate Press Service

The debate over the use of LSD continues on numerous college campuses, and it takes place on many different levels.
One aspect of the LSD controversy is the drug's supposed ability to provide religious experience. Timothy Leary, one of the
early researchers on LSD at Harvard University, has founded a religious cult based on the drug experience. He calls it
the League for Spiritual Discovery (LSD). Speaking last week at the University of Oregon, Leary suggested, “When you turn on...
you go... out of your mind. And when you go out of your mind, you come to your senses, you
resurrect your body, you discover that you are two billion years old.” In this manner, Leary, who was dismissed from
Harvard for his drug experiments, said, the individual who takes LSD is linking himself with the stream of life since
the beginning of existence. During a mid-January speech at Stanford University, Leary advised students to found their own LSD-based religion.
“Everyone of us has to be his own Moses, his own Galileo, and work out his own system with Caesar,”
Leary stated. “The kingdom of God is within your own body.”

Another January speaker at Stanford, Dr. Allen Cohen of the University of California at Berkeley, disagreed with Leary's analysis of
LSD’s spiritual powers. Cohen, who at one time worked with Leary, charged that LSD is a “fake.” A 30-time user
of the drug, Cohen claimed LSD “did not develop me spiritually and had no application to everyday life.” Cohen said
the drug, which he stopped taking a year and a half ago, leads to “spiritual egotism with users extending egos
rather than transcending them.”

Another debate over LSD centers around its reported ability to stimulate creativity. A Stanford University study by Drs. Willis Harman
and James Fadiman reported recently that, “given appropriate conditions, the psychedelic agents can be employed to enhance any aspect of
mental performance.” The subjects of the experiment produced a new conceptual model of a photon, a design of a linear
electron accelerator beam steering device, a mathematical theorem regarding NOR-gate circuits and several innovations in architecture and design. The report
states, “The psychedelics appear to temporarily inhibit censors which ordinarily limit the mental contents coming into conscious awareness.”

AFTER-EFFECTS

A study by John C. Lilly of the Communication Research Institute, Miami, claims that LSD frees man's “human computer” from
many limitations. The study suggests that LSD gives individuals the opportunity to look at themselves comprehensively.sively, allowing for serious introspection
not normally possible. Other reports disagree with these findings, and there is a conflict over the side effects of LSD
use as well. Food and Drug Administration officials claim that at least five per cent of individuals using LSD experience
serious psychological after-effects. Estimates from other sources range upward from one per cent. The question is battled over in a
number of journals and theoretical papers published in recent months. A draft of an unpublished study done recently at a
large Midwestern university comments, “Scientists measure and have explanations for the actions of many drugs on such observable indices as
the heart and respiratory rates, the level of various chemicals in the blood and the secretion of enzymes.

“In contrast, the subjective changes produced by a drug can be ascertained only by asking the subject, in one way
or another, how he feels,” the report states. “To be sure, one can measure the drug's effect on certain measures
of psychological functioning — the ability to perform some standardized task, such as placing pegs in a board or remembering
nonsense syllables — but this does not tell us what the drug experience is like.”

Drug psychoses, the unpublished study says, may arise from the definition by a user of certain unusual symptoms the individual
chooses to associate with his drug use. The individual may interpret these symptoms “to mean that he has lost his
grip on reality, his control of himself, and has in fact ‘gone crazy’.” At that time, the report suggests, “the
drug experience, perhaps originally intended as a momentary entertainment... looms as a momentous event which will disrupt one’s life in
a possibly permanent way.” The report suggests that “faced with this conclusion, the person develops a full-blown anxiety attack any
psychiatrist will certify as a psychotic episode.”

William H. McGlothlin of the University of Southern California’s psychiatry department reported in a recent seminar that “there is some
tendency for persons scoring high on (tests of) aesthetic sensitivity to have more intense and insightful LSD reactions and to
be less threatened.”

REACTIONS

McGlothlin’s report also suggests that “persons who report naturally occurring hypnotic-like experiences, are oriented toward ideas and intuition, and prefer
to live an unstructured life, tend to react more strongly to LSD. Those who prefer a more practical and orderly
life tend to have less intense reactions.” The McGlothlin report, presented at a meeting of the American Psychological Association (APA),
notes that LSD users describe their experience most frequently in terms of “greater appreciation of music and enhanced understanding of
self and others.” Fifty-eight per cent of the participants in the LSD experiment reported that their drug experiences had some
lasting effect. These subjects had been given 200 mcg. of LSD on three separate occasions. Nearly one-third of the group
reported “various personality and attitude changes such as decreased anxiety, a less materialistic viewpoint, and greater introspection and tolerance.”

These reports have prompted some federal action on the part of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Dr. James L.
Goddard revealed this week that college students trying to “turn on, tune in, and drop out” have unwanted company. Goddard
is the commissioner of the FDA, and the unwelcome visitors to the campus LSD scene are the 200 agents of
FDA's Bureau of Drug Abuse Control. The FDA agents, posing as students, are buying LSD, amphetamines, and other drugs at
an unknown number of schools throughout the nation. The FDA commissioner's statement this week was in line with a letter
he sent to 2000 college deans on April 5, 1966, in which he warned of “the gravity of the situation”
and asked for the assistance of academic administrators “in combating an insidious and dangerous activity.”

TO REPORT

Goddard asked that “any instances of the illegal use or possession (of LSD and amphetamines) should be reported at once
to the Food and Drug Administration district office.” He advised university officials to “send us any questions you may have
which will aid in eliminating the illegal use of hallucinogenic and stimulant drugs.” Although FDA officials claim they are primarily
interested in finding illegal sources of drug supply rather than finding individual users, they admit to cooperating with local law
enforcement officials in geographical areas where possession of such drugs violates local law. Federal statute prohibits the sale of LSD,
but possession for individual use is not a criminal act. FDA's agents, however, are authorized to use “executive seizure” in
confiscating LSD under the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Amendments of 1965. Seizure is permissible because LSD,
lacking FDA approval, is not in “legal distribution.”

After 20 years of research, it is still classified as an “investigatory new drug.” Some FDA agents have been specially
trained at the University of California at Berkeley's School of Criminology. There, the agents are taught law, techniques of enforcement,
criminology and corrections, drugs, physical evidence, accounting and auditing, weapons training, physical conditioning and use of vehicles. (A recent U.S.
Senate report indicates the largest number of LSD users at any school exists at Berkeley. The report attributed 2500 LSD
users to the Berkeley campus.) While Goddard's agents were looking about the campus, the debate over the implications of LSD
use continued at many colleges. At others, administrators were taking independent action against student drug use.

HAVERFORD

Haverford College president Hugh Borton told students that they faced possible suspension for repeated drug use. Borton said drug use
is “largely socially unacceptable and hence puts the good name of the college in jeopardy.” He said Haverford would cooperate
with all law enforcement agencies “as a matter of policy.” Amherst College's Committee on Guidance and Counseling mailed a letter
to the student body indicating the school's “concern about the use of drugs because of possible physical and psychological dangers
and damaging effects to the individual user.” An Amherst official described the purpose of the letter as “purely educational and
informational.” Students at Amherst “desiring further information, or wishing to discuss confidentially the implications of drug use, are encouraged to
visit the Counseling Center or the Student Health Office.” The letter included a discussion of federal and state laws governing
drug use and gave a brief discussion of the effects of LSD and marijuana. A college official described the school's
policy toward the individual drug user as “flexible.” Perhaps the strongest position against LSD use is taken by the University
of Maine. That institution’s handbook states that all students involved in the use of hallucinogens will be dismissed from the
university.

KOREAN VIOLINIST

Kyung Wha Chung, 18, who appeared Monday night with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra in Love Auditorium, has been playing the
violin since she was seven. She began her professional career at age nine when she appeared with the Seoul Philharmonic
Symphony in Korea. She has been in America since 1961, and studied at the Julliard School of Music before joining
the Baltimore Symphony. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Williams’ Art Appears In Raleigh Exhibition

Among the contributions to the 29th Annual North Carolina Artists Exhibition held recently in Raleigh were two works by Robert
Williams, instructor of Fine Arts at Davidson. Earlier Williams had been selected to receive the North Carolina State Art Society
Purchase Award for his print entitled “Poem.” As a result of the award, he was requested to show two works
not previously exhibited at the North Carolina Museum of Art, where the annual exhibition is held. The first chosen by
Williams was a painting done in acrylic, a new plastic media. The name of the painting, “3056-2,” comes from the
numbers stenciled onto one unit of the painting in which the artist attempted to show growth as a progression from
one cell to another. The Williams’ second contribution was a lithograph entitled “Down.” The print was done last summer in
conjunction with Tom O'Connor, an influential young American lithographer, who has scheduled a showing at Davidson in March. A native
of Asheville, Williams received his BA and MA degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill before becoming
an instructor at Davidson. In addition to his most recent exhibition, his paintings have been shown in past North Carolina
Artists Exhibitions, Ackland Art Center in Chapel Hill, Weatherspoon Art Gallery in Greensboro, the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in
Richmond, the Mint Museum and the Winston-Salem Gallery of Fine Arts, among others.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
THE BEST IN PIZZA AND SPAGHETTI

The Davidsonian February 17, 1967 Page Three

Gurley’s ESSO
Main and South Streets
Phone 892-9304
GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

Would You Believe It!
The sale of winter clothing continues
Stop in, Browse - - You may just find
What you need - - at 1/2 price
John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE
Clothing For the Pace Setting Traditionalist
