TOM COOK SPORTS EDITOR

The Point After

DON’T WORRY

AFTER the conclusion of the Southern Conference family reunion, stirrings among the Charlotte press hinted that the Queen City might
lose the SC tourney to Richmond next year because that city’s coliseum would be completed and because of the Atlantic
Coast Tournament the weekend following next year’s tournament in Charlotte. Well, don’t worry about it. A spokesman for the SC
Commissioner’s office in Richmond said that the Richmond arena will not be completed for another five years. Does Charlotte win
by default? Greensboro is also in the picture, but is not a likely host because of shadow of the THEREFORE
Charlotte will become the basketball mecca of the South with both conference tournaments just four days apart. But the question
is: Can Charlotte support the North-South Doubleheader, the Southern Conference Tournament and the ACC fiasco on successive weekends? Attendance at
the Saturday night finale was disappointing but the blame must partially fall to the moguls who signed the television contract
with no if’s. In past years Charlotte was blacked out unless a sellout was probable, but this year the plans
were definite before ticket sales were even begun.

CHARLOTTE has shown in years past that it buys basketball tickets like they came with savings stamps and next year
should be a revival of the good old days if Davidson regains that form that used to sell out the
Big Dome. DESPITE this column’s feeling that we might be wearing out our welcome in Charlotte with too many regular
season games plus two tournaments, next year should be the year. Charlotte has had an extraordinary interest in the progress
of the freshman team and this excitement should carry over. Let’s hope that the freshmen do too. If the other
schools in the Southern had arenas that were respectable places to play big-time basketball, playing in the Coliseum might not
be so frequent, but until that happens, Davidson's schedule will show more and more games in Charlotte as compromises from
playing in such dens of iniquity as VMI, The Citadel, GW’s armory somewhere in Washington, and William and Mary.

Taus Edge Sigs To Claim Crown

By BOB STUBBS Sports Writer

The ATO’s, playing almost perfect ball for three quarters, held on in the fourth to beat the Kappa Sigs, 59-48,
in an unofficial IMAC championship game. Flashy Cecil Clifton sparked on offense and defense for the victorious Taus, who had
lost to the Sigs by 13 points at the beginning of the season. Both houses finished with 11-1 records. The
Sigs jumped off to an early 6-1 lead, but the Taus behind Geoff Birkhead fought back and, when he sank
a crip shot with five seconds left in the first quarter, led 11-10. With the score tied 18-18, Clifton began
to take charge. He hit two layups after stealing the ball at midcourt to give the surging Taus an eight-point
lead with 1:00 left in the half. Clifton made what can only be described as one of the most fantastic
shots of this or any season. With 0:02 left he made a two-handed 50-foot set shot to send the Taus
out at halftime with a 30-22 lead. In the second half the Taus took advantage of the cold-shooting Sigs to
build a 14-point lead, their biggest lead of the night. Tucker Laxton and “Cherub” Garrison came off the bench to
ignite the Sigs’ attack and turn a runaway back into a close game. With Garrison scoring eight and Laxton four
they outscored the Taus 13-4 and trailed by just three points, 46-43. But Clifton and Birkhead settled the faltering Taus
down. Rick Moore scored for the ATO’s on a reverse layup. Pete Boggs cashed in a free throw for the
Sigs, who still trailed by four. Mike Payne made his first free throw but missed the second. Dave Jennings’ partially-deflected
shot fell in and the Taus had a seven-point lead and the game. They outscored the Sigs 8-4 the rest
of the way to make the final margin 11 points. Clifton was high for both teams with 17 points. Jennings
had 13 and Birkhead 12 for the Taus. St. Clair had 11 for the Sigs, and Garrison finished with 10,
all in the last quarter. “We were glad to get the rematch,” said a tired Clifton after the game, “but
they were tough. Despite the final score, we were lucky to win. They almost caught us in that surge in
the fourth quarter.”

BEST SC FINISH

Matmen Win Third

Finishing their finest season in 34 years, Davidson’s wrestling team captured third place in the Southern Conference Championship Tournament last
weekend at Morgantown, W. Va., finishing behind West Virginia and The Citadel. Taking only seven men to the tournament, Coach
Charlie Parker’s matmen, who had compiled a 6-2 regular season record, won two weight classes, were second in three divisions
and finished third in the other two categories entered. Davidson had won only two classes over the last 38 years,
but Colin Hudson became the first Davidson champ since Harold Westerfelt in 1959 when he defeated Mike Benson of West
Virginia in the 115-pound class. Sophomore Hudson, who had lost only once in the 123-pound class during the season, dropped
to 115 to win what Parker termed the toughest division of the tourney since four other teams entered good wrestlers.
Hudson won his matches, 1-0, 3-0 and 4-2. Parker said that Hudson wrestled “a perfect match, staying in control to
thoroughly beat his opponent even though the score remained low.” In the final match of the tournament, Lowell “Walrus” Bryan
defeated Bob “Whale” Boyd of The Citadel, 12-5, gaining revenge for a 3-2 defeat two weeks ago at Davidson. It
was the most points ever scored on Boyd, Parker said. To get to the finals, Bryan defeated a West Virginia
football player who had sweated to 245 pounds from 285, 13-3. Captain Joe Buffington, Dean Cromartie and Kerry Keith all
lost matches in the finals to earn second places. Buffington, the senior whom Parker is reported once to have told
that he would never make a college wrestler, battled the West Virginia 130-pounder to a 3-3 regulation tie, only to
lose in overtime. A questionable call by a referee sent the match into overtime. Cromartie wrestled his way into the
finals only to lose, 3-1, when he was taken down in the last period. Keith defeated West Virginia's 167-pounder on
62 seconds of riding time in the semifinals. Keith said he counted the last 10-15 seconds before “allowing” the Mountaineer
an escape in the last period. In the finals, Keith lost one of the top matches of the tournament to
The Citadel's Mike Armstrong, the reigning 167-pound champ. Finishing in third place for the Wildcats was Julian Prosser with a
decisive win over the VMI entry in the consolation finals. In the semis, he lost to the West Virginia captain,
who captured second place. Terry O'Hair also finished in third place, smothering the West Virginia's 160-pounder in the consolation match.
Parker noted that Bryan had a good chance to win the Most Outstanding Wrestler Award of the tournament but the
ballots were collected before the end of the final match, preventing voters from giving him proper consideration. The matmen will
cap the season with a trip to Kent State in Ohio for the national tournament March 23-25.

Warner Alford Joins Grid Staff As Defensive Mentor

By DON SEWELL Sports Writer

Davidson's football coaching staff has added a first-rate assistant by hiring Warner Alford, a defensive specialist whose background as a
player and a coach at the University of Mississippi recommends him highly. Alford will fill the vacancy left by Dick
Tomey who accepted a coaching job at Kansas. “Coach Alford’s duties will be handling our seven defensive linemen in all
phases of their preparation,” said head coach Homer Smith. Alford comes to Davidson from an assistant high school coach's job
in Laurel, Miss. Previously, he had a fine career as a player at Ole Miss. Alford played during the 1958,
1959 and 1960 seasons, going both ways for the Rebels. He played guard on offense and linebacker on defense. During
his three-year career, Ole Miss lost only three games. Among their victories were two Sugar Bowl wins and one Gator
Bowl victory. In 1960 Alford and his teammates earned the Grantland Rice trophy for the national champions. The previous year
they had been named the Southeastern Conference Team of the Decade. Alford was graduated with an A.B. degree in business
administration. Afterward, he coached high school ball for several years. In 1965 he returned to Ole Miss to earn a
M.A. in economics. During his time there as a graduate assistant he served as defensive coach. From there he went
to Laurel last year. “I am impressed by the type of athlete here. He is a serious, studious man. I
feel that Davidson has a great deal to offer such a person both from its academic program and its football
program,” commented Alford. He was also very pleased with Davidson's athletic facilities. Alford explained that pride is a very important
factor in his theory of defense. He added that with this pride, any player can hustle and be ready to
play well. Smith commented, “He is more than the right man for the job. He represents something that I did
not expect to find available for our staff. Considering his background and experience, we are very fortunate to have him.”

Eager To Get Started

BATMEN OPEN WEDNESDAY

16 Face Baseball Season

By CLIFF DUKE Sports Writer

A new baseball season begins next Wednesday when Coach Tom Stevens and a numerically thin 16-man squad take the field
at Misenheimer for the first of two exhibition games with Pfeiffer College. Both squads return to tangle in Davidson’s brand
new ballpark next Saturday. Although handicapped by a severe lack of depth, a strong nucleus of talent and leadership is
available as the squad prepares to launch a 29-game campaign. The shortage of players is most painfully evident in the
pitching corps. “We just don’t have enough pitchers. With all our double-headers, I'd like to have six men. But we
don’t give scholarships, and great pitchers don't just happen onto college campuses,” Stevens bemoaned. The mound staff lists seniors Gene
Bennett, Buddy Durham and Charlie Elliot, sophomore Mackey Reavis, and transfer student Danny Stafford. In addition, Stevens hopes to call
on the services of Bob Pickens, an outstanding junior college hurler. Pickens would be the only left-hander available. Stevens is
counting on hitting and defense to bolster the pitching deficiency, although experiments will continue through several games to determine the
beststarting line-up. At present, the infield appears fairly set, the only question marks being at second and third base. With
big Hank Strickland behind the plate, “our catching should be the best ever. He has the arm, and a lot
of experience in Legion and semi-pro baseball,” Stevens remarked. At first base, Ray Logan has size and range, and is
counted on to contribute a big bat to the Wildcats’ scoring punch. Stevens commented, “Logan seems to really like baseball,
and that's what I want.” Davidson's double-play duo will be sophomore Stew Brown, who has all the tools to be
“the best shortstop I've had in the ten years I've been here,” and Skip Waite, who as team captain will
supply “leadership I can depend on. He really hustles,” according to Stevens. Dick Lindsey, a dependable regular, will probably hold
down the keystone corner. However, to add depth to the infield, David King and Frank Murphy are practicing there. In
the outfield, Claude Owen is a transplanted first baseman whose enthusiasm, hard work, and strong hitting make him a team
leader. Currently scrapping for the other berths are King, Murphy, Jack Smith, and Sandy Brenneman. “If King and Murphy, with
their strong arms and speed, can hit well enough to start, they'll give us the fastest outfield I've had here,”
stated Stevens. Success this season will depend on a combination of factors cited by Stevens—enthusiasm, determination, the ability of the
team to make full use of its abilities, and how well the thin pitching corps holds up. Concerning conference play,
Stevens made the natural prediction—West Virginia and East Carolina should scrap for the top slot. Richmond and VMI are also
listed as contenders. This will be the first season for the Wildcats in their brand new ballpark. The field will
be in excellent shape, with pro-like dugouts and a new scoreboard to indicate balls and strikes. Stevens believes that “in
time we'll add dressing room facilities, and then we'll have one of the best parks on a college campus.”

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1818 W. Morehead

Considering his involvement in the Ole Miss defense as a player and coach and the seriousness he has had about
things academic, he is in a position to make a unique contribution to our program and to Davidson.” “Personally, I
am really eager to get started,” concluded Alford.

WAYNE HUCKEL

’Cats Place Sixth At Indoor Meet

Five Davidson tracksters participated in the Southern Conference Indoor Track meet as Coach Heath Whittle’s charges finished sixth in a
field of eight teams, last Saturday at Lexington, Va. Individual honors were won by Greg Cox, who won a medal
for fourth place in the broad jump, and Randy Randolph, who finished in fourth place in the shot put. Other
cindermen participating were Barry St. Clair in the 880-yard run, Charles Cameron in the 60-yard dash, and Roane Cross in
the shot put. As expected, a strong William and Mary team finished first. VMI won second place, and Richmond took
third. “We were up against pretty strong competition. Most of the other teams had already been in four or five
indoor meets. This was our first one,” Whittle said. “One disadvantage we have is no indoor place to work out,”
he added. The ‘Cats first home meet is a triangle meet with Wofford College and High Point College tomorrow. High
Point College won third place in the Davidson Relays last year. “I think that we can win. We will be
awfully disappointed if we don’t,” Whittle concluded. The field events will begin at 1:30 p.m.

IMAC Track Opens Tuesday

The annual intramural track meet will be held Tuesday and Wednesday with the preliminary heats being run on Tuesday. The
freshmen participants will compete early and the upperclassmen will start around 4:15 p.m., IMAC President Jack Sherrill said. The events
to be held include the 100-yard dash, the 220, 440, and 660-yard dashes, the 120 low hurdles, the three-quarter mile
run, the 880 relay, plus the shot put, the discus, the broad jump, and the high jump. Each man will
be allowed to participate in three events. Final point totals and standings will be announced upon completion of the frosh
basketball and handball competition, Sherrill noted.

Care, appearance counts. Whether you're playing or watching. That’s why so many top sportsmen and sports followers wear Hagger “Trophy”
slacks. They're washable, too, 65% Dacron® polyester — 35% Orlon® acrylic. And they have a permanent crease that nothing can
wilt: not rain, perspiration, or water hazards, or repeated washings. Plenty of bright new colors and harmonizing belts in stock.
See our many new arrivals in Slacks — by BOTANY, HAGGAR, FARAH, and HUNTER HAIG.

Joiner & Son MOORESVILLE Clothing For The Pace Setting Traditionalist

The Davidsonian

The Davidson Wildcats may have suffered through a rebuilding season with a 15-12 record, but junior Rod Knowles and sophomore
Wayne Huckel recently were recognized for their individual efforts during the season. Huckel capped his first varsity season under Lefty
Driesell by being named to the Southern Conference All-Tournament team. Knowles was named to the second team. “I feel very
honored, but it would have been much better if we'd won the tournament,” Huckel said. Driesell remarked, “I’ve always said
that Wayne was the greatest competitor I’ve seen. I guess he convinced a lot of other people in the tournament.”
Huckel scored 28 points in the championship final against West Virginia. Johnny Moates of Richmond led the All-Tournament voting with
46 points. Huckel followed with 45 points. Ron Williams, Carl Head, and Bob Benfield of West Virginia rounded out the
first team. They had 42, 41, and 38 points respectively in the voting. Knowles, Dave Reaser of West Virginia, Doug
Bridges of The Citadel, Ron Panneton of William and Mary, and Tom Green of Richmond were named to the second
team. Prior to the tournament, the 1967 All-Southern Conference team, chosen by the SC Sportswriters Association, was announced. For the
first time in history, six men were included on the first team. They were Moates, the top vote getter, Williams,
Knowles, Ben Pomeroy of William and Mary, Green, and Head. The second team included Panneton, Steve Lawrence of Furman, Reaser,
Joe Lalli of George Washington, and Huckel. Huckel was the only sophomore on either team. Mike O'Neill was named to
the honorable mention group. Huckel, commenting on O'Neill's selection, said, “Mike's performance was the most amazing thing about the season.
He did not start until the ninth game, but he ended up as our second leading rebounder and third leading
scorer. He really deserves the honor.” Driesell said of Knowles’ selection to the All-SC team, “Rod started off slow, but
he proved in the long run that he's the best center in the Southern Conference.”

On Campus

(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

WHO’S GOT THE BUTTON?

I’m sure it has not escaped your notice that underlying the adorable whimsy which has made this column such a
popular favorite among my wife and my little dog Spot, there is a serious attempt to stay abreast of the
problems that beset the American college student. Many a trip have I made to many a campus—talking to undergraduates, listening
to their troubles, hearing their grievances, reading their buttons. (Incidentally, the second and third most popular buttons I saw on
my last trip were: “WALLACE BEERY LIVES” and “FLUORIDATE MUSCATEL.” The first most popular button was, as we all know,
“SCRAP THE SCRAPE” which is worn, as we all know, by Personna Super Stainless Steel Blade users who, as we
all know, are proud to proclaim to the world that they have found a blade which gives them luxury shave
after luxury shave, which comes both in double-edge style and Injector style, which does indeed scrap the scrape, negate the
nick, peel the pull, and oust the ouch, which shaves so closely and quickly and truly and beautifully that my
heart leaps to tell of it. (If perhaps you think me too effusive about Personna, I ask you to remember
that to me Personna is more than just a razor blade; it is also an employer.)

But I digress. I make frequent trips, as I say, to learn what is currently vexing the American undergraduate. Last
week, for example, while visiting a prominent Eastern university (Idaho State) I talked to a number of engineering seniors who
posed a serious question. Like all students, they had come to college burning to fill themselves with culture, but, alas,
because of all their science requirements, they simply had had no time to take the liberal arts courses their young
souls lusted after. “Are we doomed,” they asked piteously, “to go through life uncultured?”

I answered with a resounding “No!” I told them the culture they had missed in college, they would pick up
after graduation. I explained that today’s enlightened corporations are setting up on-the-job liberal arts programs for the newly employed engineering
graduate—courses designed to fill his culture gap—for the truly enlightened corporation realizes that the truly cultured employee is the truly
valuable employee. To illustrate, I cited the well-known case of Champert Sigafoos of Purdue. When Champert, having completed his degree
in wing nuts and flanges, reported to the enlightened corporation where he had accepted employment, he was not rushed forthwith
to a drawing board. He was first installed in the enlightened corporation's training campus. Here he was given a beanie,
a roommate, and a copy of the company rouser, and the enlightened corporation proceeded to fill the gap in his
culture.

First he was taught to read, then to print capital letters, then capital and small letters. (There was also an
attempt to teach him script, but it was ultimately abandoned.) From these fundamentals, Champert progressed slowly but steadily through the
more complex disciplines. He was diligent, and the corporation was patient, and in the end they were well rewarded, for
when Champert finished, he could play a clavier, parse a sentence, and name all the Electors of Bavaria.

Poised and cultured, Champert was promptly placed in an important executive position. I am pleased to report that he served
with immense distinction—not, however, for long because three days later he reached retirement age. Today, still spry, he lives in
St. Petersburg, Florida, where he supplements his pension by parsing sentences for tourists.
