VOL. LVI

Earnhardt Tops Week’s Voting — After leading a diminishing field of presidential candidates through the first two days of voting, junior Tom Earnhardt finally carried the day Monday in a third run-off, defeating his last contender, Ronnie Hunt, 408 to 262. In other voting this week, the second of Davidson's annual three-week election period, the student body picked new YMCA officers, Honor Court members, and cheerleaders. Seniors vote again Monday in a final run-off for Freshman Advisor. Tom Clayton and Clay Ford, running as co-advisors, and Mike Powell — the leaders after balloting yesterday and today — are the final candidates.

Election
The new YMCA Board will be headed by President Dick Lindsay, who defeated Marvin Sparrow. The new vice-president is Joe Norton, who topped Tony Orsbon, and the new treasurer, Allen Pusey, elected over Emerson Bell by the closest margin of the elections so far: one vote. The secretary's race goes back to the voters again Monday, with a final run-off between Dave McClintock and Mac Hobby. For Honor Court, the student body elected rising seniors Rick Harrell and Jim Robinson, rising juniors Mack Reavis and Wayne Huckel, and rising sophomores Ken Crews and Dale Durham.

New cheerleaders elected were: M. L. Cannon, Tom Cook, and Rob Johnson, rising seniors; Johnny Durham, Randy Bridges, and K. D. Weeks, rising juniors; and rising sophomores Jim McAdams and Mike Sherrill.

Faculty Members Join National War Protest
By CARTER FUSSELL
Staff Writer

Davidson faculty members Dr. E. F. Patterson, M. E. Polley, and James S. Purcell joined about 6,800 other educators in

Affiliation Plan Adopted
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The faculty unanimously approved the total affiliation plan Tuesday and changed the procedure on adoption of the new faculty constitution. The affiliation plan, which was proposed by the IFC's Fraternity Affiliation Committee, would offer social affiliation to a fraternity to all who wanted it. A result of faculty action in February 1966, the proposal requires that fraternities devise a plan which would allow all freshmen to affiliate with a fraternity. The 1966 action was suggested by the Social Life Evaluation Committee, which also recommended second-semester rush. The faculty thanked the students who participated, an action which Fred Sackett, assistant to the president, termed “a high and unique tribute” from the faculty.

The proposal will offer to each rushee one of two types of bids. Type A would offer the rushee either pledgeship or social affiliation at the fraternity for as long as the rushee wanted. A Type B bid would offer to a rushee an opportunity for social affiliation, with the opportunity to change fraternities after two months. However, in order for a recipient of a Type B bid to remain an affiliate, he would have to enter rush every year.

“It demonstrates that when students are given an opportunity to work within reasonable guidelines, they will respond not only positively but maturely and creatively,” said Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer and a member of the Fraternity Affiliation Committee. Covington added that he was “enthusiastic about the program” because he feels “confident that fraternity men will respond to it and make it work, and, of equal importance,” because “it is an entirely new response to a valid concern.”

Unanimously By Faculty
The faculty also changed the procedure for the adoption of the constitution, which will be considered in April, to three-fourths of the faculty present at the April meeting. Under the old method, which required approval by three-fourths of the faculty in residence, failure to attend the meeting would have constituted a vote against the constitution.

Faculty Compensates For No Summer School
The faculty approved two major changes in Davidson's summer school policy at their meeting Tuesday. The changes come as a result of the fact that Davidson will not conduct any summer school sessions this summer. The major change is that in cases of quality-point deficiencies in meeting year-end or readmission requirements, approved summer school work will be accepted, though official credit will still be limited to the number of hours and an equal number of points in courses where a grade of C or better is earned. The other change is that courses which cannot be feasibly approved by the head of a department may be approved by the registrar, dean of faculty, or dean of students.

Otherwise, students should follow this long-standing procedure:
—Secure an official bulletin from the summer school of a regionally accredited college or university;
—With the help and approval of his faculty or major adviser select courses to be taken;
—Take the bulletin and the list of proposed courses to the corresponding department heads at Davidson College and secure approval in writing for the acceptance of the course for Davidson College credit;
—Carry the written departmental approval to the Registrar and leave it with him, receiving in exchange a form authorizing the student to attend summer school elsewhere as a visiting student with credits in specified courses to be transferred to Davidson College;
—Make specific arrangements for an official transcript to be sent to the Registrar promptly after the close of the summer school. No grades are recorded at Davidson, however.

Folksingers, Hungry 4d Head Concert Weekend
The Pozo-Seco Singers head a full slate of weekend entertainment for Saturday night, according to newly-elected Social Council Chairman David Jennings. Performing at 8 p.m. Saturday in Love Auditorium, the Pozo-Seco Singers are described by Jennings as “one of the best new folk groups.” They are famous for their two top-40 hits, “Time” and “Look what you've done!” Their most famous albums include “I'll be gone” and “I can make it with you.” Admission is free, but student identification cards will be required.

The ‘hungry 4d,’ an up-and-coming feature on campus, will present Steve Gillette and Raun MacKinnon from 10:30 p.m. until 12:30 a.m. These two folk singers work independently, but they have been traveling together as a part of the ‘Carolinas College Coffeehouse Circuit.” Gillette will leave after this weekend to join Ian & Sylvia on the West Coast. A one dollar cover charge will be in effect Saturday night. Then at 1 a.m. the Morrison Room will again be the scene of action as Russ Burgess will render a program based on extra sensory perception (ESP). His talents include mind reading and predicting future newspaper headlines. Finally, for those who like an early breakfast, the David Ovens College Union will provide the necessary ingredients for just one dollar per person. A special attraction will be Karl Boxer, a Charlotte night club owner and leader of a jazz trio.

RAUN MacKINNON

Named Wilson Fellows
Seniors Hamp Morris and Cecil Wooten have been awarded Woodrow Wilson Fellowships for 1967-68. Morris, from Geneva, Ala., is majoring in French, and Wooten, from Kinston, N. C., in classics. Both plan to be college professors. As Woodrow Wilson Fellows they will receive one academic year of graduate education (with tuition and fees paid by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation) and a living allowance of $2,000. In addition, the foundation will award a supplementary grant to the graduate school where each Fellow chooses to enroll, to be used mostly for fellowships for advanced graduate students. Neither student has finally decided which graduate school he will attend. Morris and Wooten were among 1,259 students selected from 13,596 competitors representing 1,022 colleges in the United States and Canada. They were nominated by faculty members for “giving promise of becoming valuable members of the academic profession.”

“Never in the history of our program have we had to turn down so many outstandingly good people,” commented Sir Hugh Taylor, president of the foundation, who announced the winners. Both Davidson students have been regulars on the dean's list since they entered as freshmen in 1963.

registrar, dean of faculty, or dean of students. Otherwise, students should follow this long-standing procedure:
—Secure an official bulletin from the summer school of a regionally accredited college or university;
—With the help and approval of his faculty or major adviser select courses to be taken;
—Take the bulletin and the list of proposed courses to the corresponding department heads at Davidson College and secure approval in writing for the acceptance of the course for Davidson College credit;
—Carry the written departmental approval to the Registrar and leave it with him, receiving in exchange a form authorizing the student to attend summer school elsewhere as a visiting student with credits in specified courses to be transferred to Davidson College;
—Make specific arrangements for an official transcript to be sent to the Registrar promptly after the close of the summer school. No grades are recorded at Davidson, however.

Poet, Scientist Set For Lectureships
Reynold's Lectureships for the spring term of 1967 have been accepted by Paul Green and Jacob Bronowski. “A third, Morganthau, had accepted,” said Frontis W. Johnston, dean of faculty, “but he found it necessary to cancel out.” He will be here next fall instead, said Johnston. Born in 1894, Green, a native North Carolinian, was educated at the University of North Carolina and Cornell University. In 1927 Green received the Pulitzer Prize for the best American play, In Abraham’s Bosom. The second Reynold's lecturer will be Dr. Jacob Bronowski. Born in Poland in 1908, Bronowski lived on the continent during his early years. Later, he was educated in England andReceived his PhD from Cambridge. Leaving his post of university professor in 1942, Bronowski worked with British economic problems during World War II. Green is expected on campus signing a "Help Stop the War in Vietnam" advertisement that appeared in the Sunday, March 12 issue of The New York Times. Patterson says, "This was done on a personal basis. I was disappointed at the few representatives from southern universities and especially from Davidson College and other church-related colleges in the South." Duke University was the only North Carolina school that had enough names to be listed as a separate institution. It listed 32 names. The only other names from North Carolina were those of the three Davidson professors and Henry Sanoff. These were listed under "other institutions" under the North Carolina heading. Patterson says that he does not know Sanoff or the school with which he is associated. When asked how he learned of the plans for the ad, Patterson said he was a member of several of the committees that sponsored it and "they sent me the application and forms for proposed names and I sought to locate signers among the Davidson faculty." The headline on the two and a quarter page ad was "Educators Appeal to the American People... Help Stop the War in Vietnam." It went on to urge an end to the killing of American youth in light of "more than 7,500 already dead protecting a corrupt military dictatorship against the wishes of the Vietnamese people." The ad condemned the killing of men, women, and children in Vietnam and the destruction of crops in an already impoverished country. The financial costs of the war to the United States were also scored before the protest went on to ask that readers "Help bring our boys home." The signers charged that the reason for the continuance of the war lies in the distortion of facts about the war.

Davidsonian Hits Top In Area Competition

THE DAVIDSONIAN has been judged the best small college newspaper in North and South Carolina by the editors of the Charlotte Observer and Charlotte News. Two DAVIDSONIAN staffers also placed in the annual competition: Editor Louis Lesesne won a second place award in the best editorial competition and an honorable mention in the best news story division, and Sports Editor Tom Cook received an honorable mention in the sports competition. Lesesne received a $50 prize for editing the best newspaper and $15 for his place in the editorial division. "This newspaper has some enterprising editors or some ingenious reporters—probably both," said the judges. "It covered the significant news and took pains to explain what it meant and why it was significant. It showed imagination and resourcefulness in developing below-the-surface stories." Lesesne’s editorial came from the Dec. 2 issue, calling for a clarification of the college's policy on drinking. There were a total of 368 entries in the competition, from 26 colleges.

Council Vote Allows Co-Advisors In Race

Student Council voted this week not to allow two juniors to run for the office of co-freshman advisor and then rescinded the motion in a special session. The original vote was taken at the regular council meeting Monday night. At that time the decision was made not to let the pair run, mainly on the argument that it might establish a precedent of co-office holders. An additional reason cited was the complication of seating the two on the Council, since By-Laws provide for only one vote for the freshman advisor. At the special session held Tuesday night, the two candidates were allowed to present their reasons for running together and their solution to the one-seat problem. After the two had made their platform clear and had explained that they would run as advisor and co-advisor, the council decided to waive the previous ruling and allow them to run together. Also during the regular council meeting a new ruling which provided for a new arrangement of cheerleaders was passed. The council cited the greater enthusiasm in the lower classes as they voted to redistribute the cheerleaders among the classes. Under the new ruling there will be three seniors, three juniors, and two sophomores on the squad, replacing the old distribution of 4-2-1. In other business, the council elected Jim Timmons and Ken Autrey to aid Chuck Matthews as advisors to next year's council.

Basic College Changes Pres. Martin Gets Proposals Today

Manifesting "student concern over the future welfare of Davidson College," a student report advocating changes in four areas of the college was presented to President D. Grier Martin this morning, Edward Dwelle, spokesman for the group, announced this week. The complete text of the report given to Martin is reprinted in today’s DAVIDSONIAN on page 4. Seniors Dwelle, Bob Dugger, Chuck Matthews, and Charles Vick headed the committee which wrote the report which proposes improvements in academics, administration, athletics, and student life. Among the changes proposed in academics are larger political science and sociology departments and an interdisciplinary social science course. A comprehensive fine arts program and conversion of the present college union building into an art gallery were also suggested. The report recommended that a more heterogeneous student body and administration be recruited. Students from all sections of the country would be beneficial to the college. A vacuum now present in the administration could be filled by a non-Davidson graduate as Provost. Athletic scholarships should be greatly altered, the report stated. Aid would be given only in the case of financial need. The athletic department would attempt to serve the needs of a greater portion of the student body. Reforms pertaining to social life include a coordinate college for women, additional dormitories with lounges and hall kitchens, and a new, expanded college union. "It is a wholly student-oriented report," Dwelle said. "This is a deadly serious attempt of those who wrote it and signed it to express their concern for the college and its future welfare. We have not tried to be comprehensive even in the four areas in which we have dealt," he said. "There are many more ideas which are more useful than these which we have expressed, though we think these ideas indicate the direction we would like the college to take." The four students first met about March 1 and got together a group of 20 students who divided up into committees "to write reports which reflected what they hoped to be the consensus of student opinion." The committees met for about a week and submitted their reports. On March 10 the mimeographed reports were returned to the committee members and they began soliciting signatures from students. "We feel that the report is perhaps as constructive and well written as we were able to do in that amount of time," Dwelle explained. "We felt it was important to get the report out as soon as possible to be considered as a segment of student opinion when the Blue Sky subcommittees make their reports to the Blue Sky Committee." He added that the report in no way attempts to take over the Blue Sky Committee functions. It does not attempt to cover the broad scope of the Blue Sky Committee. The library and fraternities were left out because it was felt enough attention had been devoted to those areas. Widespread support for the report was found in gathering signatures, Dwelle said, although a large number of signatures was not an objective. "A large number of those who signed the report might place their emphases on one area or another, but they agree in principle with the overall report," he stated. "Humorously, we considered naming the committee the Brown Ground Committee in contrast to the Blue Sky Committee, although no attempt is being made to subvert or take over the Blue Sky Committee," Dwelle said.

Pi Kappa Alpha Tops Fraternity Averages

Pi Kappa Alpha topped the 2.00 mark in leading first semester fraternity averages. The Pikas held a 2.032 average that was almost a full tenth of a point above the second-ranked Pi Kapps. Sigma Chi was third among the 12 fraternities.

FALL 1965-66 SEMESTER
FRATERNITY
Pi Kappa Alpha 2.032
Pi Kappa Phi 1.951
Sigma Chi 1.947
Beta Theta Pi 1.820
Phi Gamma Delta 1.777
Phi Delta Theta 1.824
Sigma Nu 1.757
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.816
Kappa Alpha 1.605
Alpha Tau Omega 1.763
Kappa Sigma 1.750
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.758