SOFTBALLERS SURVEY EFFECTS OF WIPE-OUT

Pika and KA softballers stand around Pika first baseman Tom Cook, who has just been accidentally struck by a softball
thrown by KA shortstop John Frick. Cook was running from first when Frick scooped up a grounder, forced him out
at second and drew back to throw to first. Instead, he struck Cook whose jaw was cracked. (See story below).
(Staff Photo by Olson)

Phi Gams Bomb Nu’s, 9-6

By DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

The Phi Gams’ crack softball sensation knocked off the Sigma Nu’s, 9-6, last week to tighten their hold on the
top of the IMAC charts. The Fijis have ridden the arm of moundsman Bob Apgar and the batting skills of
most of their lineup past six contenders. By the close of this week, the Gams had suffered no losses. The
Nu's were bottled up the entire afternoon.

Meanwhile, the second-ranked Phi Delts intensified their drive for first place honors with a pair of wins. The Delts first
polished off Sigma Chi’s, 2-0, and then romped over the Nu’s by an 11-0 score. Further down the charts, the
SPE’s closed the week on a winning note by pounding the SAE’s, who were paralyzed by the loss of ace
hitter, fielder, and base coach Ed Embree. The E's fell, 25-11.

INDIES BOMBED

Earlier in the week, the Sig Eps rolled to a 16-4 wipeout over the Independents. The Pikas added a pair
of wins to their season totals this week with a 9-8 win over the KA’s and an 18-6 steamroll over
the Betas. Pika first baseman Tom “Coach” Cook was wounded in action against the KA’s when KA shortstop John Frick
accidentally struck him with the ball as Cook rounded second.

In other action, the Kappa Sigs moved into a four-way tie for sixth place in the standings by humiliating the
ATO’s, 17-2. But the Sigs were not so successful Wednesday against the Machis when they fell by a 9-5 score.

KA’S WIN

The KA’s broke into the winning column Wednesday by edging out the Pi Kapps, 9-8. The game was a see-saw
battle which saw both teams match each other run-for-run, until the KA’s mastered Temple's fast pitch. Tight field protection by
the Pi Kapps held down the score, as several KA batters, including shortstop Frick, registered hits. The Pi Kapps dropped
another decision yesterday to the Betas, as labs robbed the Pi Kapps of most of their starting lineup. The Pi
Kapps’ losses leave them and the Independents the only winless teams as the season passes the halfway point.

PHELPS STRONG

The Davidsonian April 21, 196 Page Five

Foglemen Roll Past Wakies

By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Paced by the performances of Esmond Phelps, Pinky Hatcher, and Peter Parrott, Davidson's tennis team swept, 5-4, over Wake Forest
here Tuesday. “The score was only 5-4," said coach Harry Fogleman, “but we had the match won after the number

Davidson Relays Open Tomorrow

Teams from more than 20 schools will hit the tracks here tomorrow afternoon for the ninth annual Davidson College Invitational
Relays. Competition will begin at 1:30 p.m. with the pole vault and run until about 5 p.m., with relay events
tailing the schedule, track coach Heath Whittle said. Chances for the ‘Cats to secure first place honors look dim, with
Pembroke and Carson-Newman slated to vie for top awards. In last year’s competition, Davidson reaped fourth place laurels, while East
Tennessee, High Point, and East Carolina sewed up the top three spots. High Point is the only one of the
top three winners of last year scheduled to return this season. Other teams entered include Elon, Guilford, Catawba, Appalachian, Frederick,
Wofford, Presbyterian, Washington and Lee, Mars Hill, Cumberland, Campbell, Atlantic Christian, Emory, St. Andrews, Methodist, Concord, Berry, Bethany, and the
University of North Carolina at Charlotte.

Deacs Miss Opening Guns As Cage Picture Unveiled

For the first time in several years, coach Lefty Driesell will not unveil his new version of the Wildcat cagers
against Wake Forest in Charlotte’s Coliseum. Instead, Davidson's basketball schedule will open on a lesser key, with the ‘Cats hosting
Bucknell Dec. 1 in Johnston Gym.

The new schedule pits Davidson against rugged opponents from Vanderbilt, Michigan State, Duke, and Memphis State, as well as against
perennial enemies from West Virginia, St. Joseph's, and Furman. The 23-game lineup includes 10 regular season Southern Conference games and
eight battles in the Charlotte Coliseum.

“It will be the toughest schedule that a Davidson team has ever faced,” Driesell said. “I sincerely believe it is
one of the strongest schedules in the country.”

The complete schedule is:
Dec. 1 Bucknell at Davidson
Dec. 2 VMI at Charlotte
Dec. 5 Furman at Davidson
Dec. 9 Michigan at Charlotte
Dec. 12 Vanderbilt at Nashville
Dec. 15 William and Mary at Charlotte
Dec. 16-19 Charlotte Invitational at Charlotte (Davidson, Rice, and Miami of Ohio)
Dec. 28-29 Sugar Bowl Tournament at New Orleans (Davidson, Michigan State, Vanderbilt, Memphis State)
Jan. 3 Duke at Durham
Jan. 6 St. John's at New York
Jan. 13 West Virginia at Morgantown, W. Va.
Jan. 27 Wake Forest at Greensboro
Jan. 31 VPI at Charlotte
Feb. 3 W. Va. at Charlotte
Feb. 6 Furman at Greenville
Feb. 10 Richmond at Richmond
Feb. 14 St. Joseph's at Philadelphia
Feb. 17 George Washington at Washington, D. C.
Feb. 21 Richmond at Davidson
Feb. 24 Tulane at Charlotte
Feb. 29-March 2 Southern Conference Tournament

28036 is our Zip Code in Davidson, N.C. Use it in your return address on every letter you write. Then
others will be able to Zip their mail to you.one doubles and then we seemed to let up.” The victory
was especially satisfying to the Wildcat fuzz ballers, who must maintain a winning punch in order to net 20 victories.
The bright spot of the day, Fogleman said, was the outstanding play of Phelps. The ‘Cats’ number one man demolished
the Deacon's standout, Mike Rubenstein, to the tune of 6-3 and 9-7. Rubenstein, a strong hitter and aggressive offensive player,
was constantly blitzed by Phelps’ soft, spinning volleys. Hatcher, recovered from a slump during which Fogleman said he had been
plagued by “poor timing and footwork,” found his old finesse and trounced Ed Parker, 6-2, and 6-1. He then teamed
up with Peter Parrott, who absorbed one of the two singles’ setbacks, to defeat Rubenstein and Parker, 6-4, 6-3, in
what Fogleman termed the best doubles match by his team this year. Hatcher echoed this opinion, declaring that “everything seemed
to work for both of us, especially our serves and volleys.” According to Parrott, “we've played well before, but lost
because we didn't play as consistently as we did against Wake Forest.”

In other matches, Dave Jennings downed Rob Knapp, 6-4, 6-3, while Geordie Mueller rallied to beat Ron MacVitti, 6-4, 7-5,
after dropping the first set, 1-6. Dan Hearon lost to Pare Ashcraft, 6-3, 2-6, 6-8. Hearon and Parrott fought Ashcraft
and MacVitti for three sets before losing, while Pearce and MacVitti gave the Deacons their second doubles win, this time
over Mueller and Jennings.

The ‘Cats hosted Clemson last Friday before about 300 spectators, who watched as Davidson fell, 8-1. Jennings staved off a
shutout by downing Dave Wilkins, 6-4, 6-2. Phelps fashioned out the next best singles effort in a 1-6, 6-8 loss
to David Cooper. In doubles, only Hearon and Phelps managed to go more than two sets. They lost to Sam
Smithyman and Wilkins, 2-6, 6-2, 4-6. “When they give scholarships and we don't, that’s what you've got to expect,” said
Fogleman. “Of course, we didn’t have one of our better matches, but I'm afraid they are out of our class.”
Fogleman said he thought Clemson might beat North Carolina in the ACC competition for the conference title. “Now we have
to concentrate on our own Conference games,” said Fogleman, as he looked to matches with VMI and Richmond at Lexington,
Va., today and with West Virginia tomorrow. The Foglemen will then journey to Williamsburg for matches with William and Mary
and George Washington next week.

Luck Averts Possible Tragedy When College Pool Overheats

Pure luck may have saved Davidson from tragedy this weekend, when a power shortage made the college indoor swimming pool
hazardous for swimming. A spokesman for the maintenance department reported to THE DAVIDSONIAN that the power shortage last weekend caused
the unit system which circulates water in the pool to shut down. This system keeps the water in the pool
at a controlled temperature by constantly pumping the old water out and replacing it with clean, cooler water. But the
unit which heats the pool is steam-operated. So when the electricity shut off, the cooling unit ceased operation but the
heater remained in working condition. Apparently, no one remembered that the heater was steam powered and would continue operating. The
heating unit continued to raise the temperature of the trapped water. Finally, when someone opened the pool Saturday morning, the
temperature of the water was high enough “to poach eggs,” according to the spokesman. Members of the department refused to
say who was responsible for maintaining the pool, and for checking to make sure the heating unit was off. The
power failure occurred late Friday night, and most people in Davidson were unaware that the shortage had occurred until the
next morning. The pool is located in Johnston Gym, and is open on Saturdays for use by faculty members and
their families. Faculty children use the pool on Saturday, but apparently none were there when the overheating was discovered. Anyone
who had tried to use the pool would have been seriously injured, sources reported. Sources at the department refused to
blame anyone for the oversight, and said they planned to dismiss the matter as a careless error.

IMAC STANDINGS
Phi Gam 6-0
Phi Delt 5-1
Pika 4-1
SPE 4-2
Sigma Chi 4-3
ATO 3-3
Beta 3-3
Kappa Sig 3-3
Sigma Nu 3-3
SAE 2-4
KA 1-4
Pi Kapp 0-5
Independents 0-5

217 N. Tryon St.
Pipe Smoker
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
marlon miche 375-9723 Charlotte

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

“PIZZA SAINI
Pleasant Tasting Liquid For Upset Stomach
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Phone 892-2111
Open 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.
Your Neighborhood Drug Store
131 N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.

La Roma
Rendezvous in Charlotte at
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Ristoranti

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

Authentic natural styling and an extraordinarily wearable fabric make this Hunter Haig suit a very wise choice for Spring-Summer wear.
Every Hunter Haig suit has unmistakable features: the higher notch, gently longer lapel, the slightest suppression. Every Hunter Haig suit
has a refined look that is a credit to the discriminating wearer. The Brigadier tropical illustrated is of Sel, wrinkle-abstaining
Dacron polyester/worsted wool, exclusively yours.
Mooresville
Our 55th Continuous Year
Clothing for the pace-setting traditionalist
