Richardson Fellowship Program Is Expanded
By JIM LEE
Staff Writer

The Richardson Fellowship program will have a more extensive schedule of activities this year and a revised method of selecting freshmen for the group. The program was created to give selected freshmen an opportunity to develop their leadership potential. The program will concentrate its activities in three areas. It will:

- Conduct seminars on campus at various times during the year which will feature distinguished speakers from different fields.
- Send the fellows on a series of field trips as a group to different parts of the country.
- Make an effort to locate for the fellows summer internship employment for the development of their particular interests.

Several seminar speakers have already been scheduled. They include Dr. Anthony Athos, dean of the Harvard Business School, who was recently featured in a Life Magazine article about America’s top educators; Dr. Vernon Alden, president of Ohio University; and Dr. Anna Hedgeman, chairman of the Social Justice Department of the National Council of Churches. Although these seminars are primarily for the Richardson fellows, the speakers will probably be available for discussion with other interested students in Open End-type groups.

In November, the group will take a field trip to Chapel Hill to participate in a conference along with Richardson Fellows from UNC-CH and Ohio University students who are associated with another Richardson Foundation program.

The selection of Richardson Fellows will follow a significantly different procedure this year. Members of the Class of 1971 will meet at an assembly next week at which the program will be explained. Interested students will be asked to fill out a four-page, essay-type application and to participate in interviews at which the students may ask questions about the program as well as answer a few about themselves. Then recommendations will be obtained from hall counselors and other people closely associated with the particular applicants. High school activities will also be considered.

After this, the group will be reduced to about 65 freshmen based entirely on the results thus far. These students will be semi-finalists. They will be interviewed more intensively and will probably attend a special seminar in January. The group will then be further reduced to approximately 25 students, who will be finalists. They will attend an off-campus, two-day conference in the early spring at which they will be thoroughly questioned and examined by a group composed of 10 important representatives.

Davidson's “strongest debate team in years” will open the forensic season October 27 at the Wake Forest novice tournament. Bolstered by eight returning varsity debaters and a freshman squad that includes two high school state champions, the team will face its toughest schedule ever. Invitations have already been received to tournaments at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the Berkeley Forum at Emory, Tulane, University of Georgia, and Miami, said Fletcher Hartsell, debate club president. He expects about a dozen more invitations.

“We have the largest and strongest group ever of returning varsity debaters,” debate coach Ray McMillin said. “The prospects for the novice (freshman) team look extremely good.”

An open panel discussion with members of the economics and social science departments will be held to discuss this year's debate topic, “Resolved, that the federal government should guarantee a minimum annual cash income for all its citizens.” Also, a series of informal dinner debates are planned with neighboring schools including Wake Forest, Belmont Abbey, and Pfeiffer, Hartsell said.

FLYING PROFESSOR
Maloney revs up aviation club.

Student Interest Boosts Flying Club Prospects
By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

Response to a recent interest questionnaire distributed by Dr. Sam Maloney boosted possibilities for organizing a campus aviation club. Among 323 students returning the questionnaires, three students indicated that they already had private pilots’ licenses, and three others have student licenses. Maloney, professor of Bible and religion, has been interested in aviation since World War II, when he accumulated approximately 810 hours flying time in a B24 aircraft in the Pacific.

“While no steps have been taken to organize a flying club, I believe that one is justified,” Maloney said. He said that such a club would promote an interest in flying, promote flying safety, enable students to obtain private pilots’ licenses, give licensed pilots a chance for advanced certification, and enable pilots to maintain flying proficiency.

Students interested in aviation and organizing a flying club can best demonstrate their interest by picking up a questionnaire and information sheet containing information for private flying in the Davidson area.

Oct. 30 Set As Deadline To Apply For Fulbrights

The deadline for applying for Fulbright grants for graduate study and professional training abroad for 1968-69 is Oct. 30. The awards are available under the Fulbright-Hays Act as a part of the educational and cultural exchange program of the U.S. Department of State. The program, administered by the Institute of International Education, is intended “to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and other countries,” and provides more than 1,000 grants for study in 52 countries. Application forms and information for Davidson students may be obtained from Dr. J. O. Embry.

Campus Comment
September 29, 1967
Page Three

Students Knock Union

Responding to the question “Why don’t you date at the College Union?” these students said:

Paul Pitts, junior: “There is really no place to go to talk with a date. A place with some degree of privacy or atmosphere. The building is just not sufficient.”to supply the functions of a college union as a place to date. "I'd rather take a date up to my room to listen to records than go to the Union."

PITTS
Bill Graham, senior: "There's no privacy. Of course, another good reason is that you can't drink there. I dated to the Union for the Monaus, but the dance was so crowded you couldn't do anything."

GRAHAM
Roger Duvall, junior: "Except for UCH (Union Coffee House) there's usually something else to do. The atmosphere at other activities is more appealing. Of course, you can drink off campus."

DUVALL
Steve Callender, freshman: "If I had my choice, I'd rather go to several other places. Being on campus, six days a week and eating in the Union, the building can become too monotonous. Wherever you go to get a date, there are generally more things to do. It seems absurd to come back to Davidson unless there is something going on."

CALLENDER

Money-Minded Students Choose Watson To Head Investment Club
from the Richardson Foundation and the faculty. These men will make the final decision. The size of the group is uncertain, but will probably be around 11 in number. They will become Fellows immediately and will remain as such until graduation. Davidson students, lured by the prospects of making money on the stock market, formed the Investment Club last week.

ROTC Department Names Officers For Fall Semester
The Military Science Department recently announced the cadet officers who will lead the ROTC brigade for the first semester. The brigade commander will be Cadet Lt. Col. Mike Powell, who will be assisted by Cadet Maj. Frank Fleming as executive officer. Powell's brigade staff will be composed of Rusty Brannon, Ron Dougherty, Julian Prosser, Will Hunter, David White, Bill Graham, Roger Duttweller. Cadet Maj. Bill Wheeler will lead the First Battalion, with Cadet Capt. Ron Hunt serving as executive officer. The battalion staff consists of Tom Peddicord, Steve Brown, Steve Humphrey, Rick Harrell, Dickie Dickens, John Miller, Rick Romseut, and Brinn Davis. Second Battalion will be commanded by Cadet Maj. Joe Friebele. Cadet Capt. Locke Holland will serve as executive officer over a staff composed of Cecil Clifton, Ross Brown, Tom Irons, Ted Horne, Pat Patton, Dick Jenkins, Geesh Bayne, and Lyle Smith. Cadet Lt. Dan Gresham will be company commander of Company A; Lt. Don Crowder, Company B; Lt. Charles Perry, Company C; Lt. Mike Coltrane, Company D; Lt. Jim Reinoehl, Company E. Also, Lt. Gus Cochran, Company F; Lt. Bruce Weihe, Company G; Lt. Larry Caldwell, Company H; Lt. Allen Rogers, Honor Guard; and Lt. Chip Vogan, ROTC Band.

Sponsored by Dr. Randall Kincaid of the Economics Department, the club held its first meeting on September 18 and elected the following slate of officers: President, Bill Watson; Vice-President, Carter Fussell; Treasurer or Agent, Frank Bass; Secretary, Ron Dougherty. The club also decided that each member must invest at least five dollars monthly but that no member may control more than 10 percent of the total capital of the organization. The sponsors will act in an advisory capacity only. The members themselves will determine how they will invest their capital. A member may withdraw at any time and his investment will be returned depending on how much his stock gained or lost during his membership.

Survived Three Weeks
The club does not guarantee its members overnight success, though it does promise to educate the membership about securities and the steps involved in purchasing stock. A spokesman for the new organization said, "The Investment Club is open to all students regardless of major, class, or experience. It would be desirable to have members who know nothing about stocks since we will begin at a fairly elementary level of study. Any interested student is welcome, particularly freshmen." The next meeting of the club will be held on Oct. 2 at 7:30 in the Dome Room of Chambers.

Sunday Night Open House
Members of the faculty and administration wishing to have open house should leave their names in THE DAVIDSONIAN box in the Alumni Office on the Tuesday preceding the Sunday they wish to have open house.

You should be able to last through the rest of the semester. Give THE DAVIDSONIAN to that girl back home so that she'll know you really did make it to college after all.

THE DAVIDSONIAN SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Address
City State Zip
Starting Oct. 30, Mrs. W. C. Copeland and Nancy Sarelsed will serve suppers each evening and Sunday dinners in their home on Main Street to anyone who is interested in a delicious home-cooked meal. Serving hours for the evening meal will be from 6 to 7 p.m. Sunday dinners will be served from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Call 892-4171 for reservations.