Page Six April 14, 1967 The Davidsonian

Anderson Receives Vereen Bell Award

Ken Anderson received the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for creative writing in chapel yesterday. Tom Frist and Herb Jackson placed
second and third, respectively, in the competition. Author Peter Taylor, who judged the entries and presented the awards, discussed college
literary programs and creative writing. He is currently teaching at UNC-G.

Anderson's entry was a poem entitled “Seaborn of Dawn.” Frist’s composition was a short story, “Emancipation,” and Jackson's poem was
called “Persimmon Weather.” A selection committee of the English Department examined the 20 entries and narrowed the selection to seven
finalists. Taylor made the final decision.

“Creative writing has now become accepted in colleges,” Taylor said. “It is a way of teaching life. Once a student
has tried to write, he never reads like he did before.” He said that the teacher who reads the manuscript
can “observe a student learning to create a technique. It is a part of education and should be a part
of every college curriculum.”

Taylor spent yesterday afternoon on campus discussing creative writing in conjunction with the Fine Arts Festival. He held a discussion
in the Morrison Room of the union and discussed the winners’ compositions.

Hill Looks For Students To Collect Arrowheads

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

While others are collecting bad grades and sun tans during the spring, one pre-med major, Lou Hill, is interesting students
in his 10-year-old hobby of collecting arrowheads.

“I got interested gradually,” he said. “I would find an arrowhead and save it. I also do a lot of
skin diving, and occasionally I’ll find some coins. As my collection grew, I developed an interest for some serious collecting.”

Since he has been at Davidson, Charles Richards, a junior from Decatur, Ga., and Sam Darby, a freshman from Salem,
Va., have joined Hill in collecting arrowheads. The trio now has about 200 complete heads and about 400 artifacts. Some
of the heads probably date back from the pre-Columbian period. Besides arrowheads, the boys have found spearheads, scrapers, old uniform
buttons, musket balls, and old coins. Several of their finds have been in North Carolina.

“I’d hate to say exactly where we find them,” Hill said. “If I did, then a lot of people would
be out looking. That way, everybody gets about ten arrowheads, but no one has a really good collection. I will
say that the general area is along the Catawba River.”

It takes practice to tell an arrowhead from an ordinary rock. When Richards first started collecting, he had trouble seeing
how Hill knew that a certain rock was an arrowhead. Now, however, he knows how to distinguish a rock from
an arrowhead fragment.

“Arrowheads will usually have a well-defined edge,” Hill explained. “Also, most of them are made of flint, which is not
found in large chunks in North Carolina.”

When Hill graduates, he will leave the collection with Richards and Darby. “Who knows?” he laughed. “If it’s good enough,
we might consider donating our collection to the Davidson Library. Right now, though, we’re hoping to find an Indian burial
mound. But until we do, we’ll just keep on collecting.”

Chakravarty (Continued From Page One)

Chakravarty believes the U.N. could play a key role in the formation of a world community but feels that several
revisions in its structure are necessary now. For one thing, he feels that Red China should be admitted to the
U.N., pointing out that as a nation of 700 million people, it cannot be ignored.

With regard to the current international situation, Chakravarty believes that the admission of Red China, along with the two Vietnams,
could lead to a promotion of the Vietnam war by providing a debate forum where the two sides could discuss
their differences.

Although he feels that American efforts in Vietnam are misdirected, he does not condemn the United States for being there
and is sympathetic toward the predicament in which this country now finds itself.

“The United States tends to view as an ideological problem what is primarily an economic and social problem,” he said.
Asians haven't joined the U.S. in support of South Vietnam because they don’t think that American policy is geared toward
the solution of Asia’s chief problems like poverty and starvation.

“The Vietnamese are hungry—they want food! The United States’ motivation is right, but its methods are wrong, and hence she
has failed to draw other nations to her support. An approach to the problem as an economic and social issue
would be far more successful than the United States’ present policy of military escalation,” Chakravarty emphasized.

“Just remember,” he said in parting, “I offer these views not as a politician, but as a man of peace
who lives in this country and who has the right of a friend to share his insights.”

Taylor is the author of four collections of short stories, a novel, and two plays. He related in his chapel
talk how after the war he applied for a teaching position at Greensboro. The chancellor asked him, “Are you a
writer who wants to teach, or a teacher who wants to write?” He answered that he was a writer who
wanted to teach.

Taylor explained that after the Civil War debating societies were the focus of American college intellectual activity outside of class.
Now creative writing has come to be accepted as a major intellectual focus. A burgeoning interest in literary contests and
writers’ conferences evidences the increase in interest in creative writing.

Taylor also explained that he opposed the “trade school approach” to teaching creative writing. “Nothing should be studied in a
creative writing course that is not studied in other literature courses,” he said.

Eu Society Sweeps Some Of its Cobwebs

By BILL GRAHAM
Staff Writer

The Eumenean Society under the direction...Bill Norfleet has swept out some of the cobwebs, rearranged its antique furniture, and revitalized
one of Davidson's most ancient traditions during this semester. There are some drastic changes in the “new literary society,” most
notably, poetry reading has been substituted for debating. According to Norfleet, the whole activation came quite by accident. “I want
to give credit for the idea of the poetry reading to Phil Jones,” he commented. “We were trying to think
of something to have for a program, and Jones came up with the idea of a poetry reading. Originally we
planned a poetry session with a few girls around, a little ‘hamming it up’ by the artist, and hopefully a
good time for the audience.”

The first program featured Leon Perry reading his own “profane works” and Phil Jones interpreting the poetry of George Matheny.
About twenty people showed up for the meeting. “It was so successful,” added Norfleet, “that we decided to have another.”
Since then, the society has presented poetry readings with Herb Jackson, Kem Anderson, Bill Barr, Wayne Rhodes, and George Quasha.
The audiences have averaged about twenty-five. No pressure is put on the poets. They receive quiet attention, polite applause, and
are willing to answer any questions afterward. “These readings have become an open forum for student literature and creativity,” said
Norfleet, “and this is what we are trying to develop. The readings are open to everybody, and anybody who wants
to present his work can.”

Norfleet also emphasized that the “old” society is dead. There is no longer a constitution, and the society operates on
a self-perpetuating basis. Those running it one year appoint the successors for the next year. The new directors are Phil
Jones, Toby Watt, Bill Farr, and Sam Darby. Farr, one of the readers this semester, sees the idea as “very
worthwhile.” “This is something that could not be done in chapel. Everybody who comes to Eu Hall is genuinely interested
in hearing student work read. It also gives the writer a chance to see his own mistakes and weaknesses and
to get reactions from the audience.”

Faculty (Continued From Page One)
The committee has emphasized the problem involved in the fact that both the trustees and the faculty must approve any
proposed draft before a constitution can be implemented. In its cover letter, the committee stated, “We have consistently emphasized to
the trustees that the Constitution must be approved by the faculty, to whom we are responsible. We have stressed that
we wish in no way to imply to them that we can guarantee faculty acceptance of the enclosed draft constitution.
On the other hand, we must make clear to you (the faculty) that our discussions have been only with Mr.
(Walter) Lange (president of the trustees), Mr. (William) Millis, and Dr. (Warner) Hall and that they wish it noted that
they cannot speak for the entire Board of Trustees. What we have been able to accomplish is the evidence of
a suggested compromise between the two groups which might result in a document.”

Two copies of the new draft have been placed on reserve in the library for student examination.

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The admission of Red China highlighted the three-day session of the United Nations Model General Assembly. Four Davidson students returned
last weekend from the Model UN, sponsored by the Middle South district of the Collegiate Council for the United Nations
and held this year at East Carolina College, Greenville, N.C. “The CCUN is a student-organized, student-run, student-financed organization. Most of
its members come from North Carolina and Virginia schools. It has no direct connection with the real UN organization,” stated
David Ginn, a member of the Davidson delegation. “The purpose of the CCUN,” stated George Nzongola, leader of Davidson's delegation,
“is to provide more information about how the UN works and to project a favorable image of the UN to
others. Since each delegation must represent a country in the Model Assembly, a great deal of preparation must precede the
actual meeting. There is tremendous educational value in the program.”

Besides the Model Assembly, there were also several committee meetings, thus representing as closely as possible the format of the
UN. Representing the Congo, the Davidson delegation presented and saw a bill passed concerning international trade and economic development. In
discussing the benefit of the assembly, Ginn said, “It vastly improved my knowledge of the complications and technicalities which members
of the UN face. It also proved to me that there are legitimate differences of opinion in the world today.
Everything is not just black-and-white, as most Americans see it.”

According to Nzongola, the Davidson delegation “did very well and received many compliments from members of other delegations.” Other members
of the delegation were Bill Schmickle and Peter Hobbie.

HAMM AND CLOV
Francis Gayle (left) and Michael Gwilym perform in Samuel Beckett's “Endgame” last night in Hodson Hall. Jurgen Schlunk as Nagg
and Mrs. Peter Nicholls as Nell completed the cast. The play was produced by the Richardson Scholars.

Council Supports New Club
The Student Council voted Wednesday night to approve the plan for the proposed campus eating club. Franklin Anderson presented the
plans for the club to the council. The plan, in turn, will soon be presented to President D. Grier Martin.
The Student Council also voted to invite to their meetings either the vice presidents or suitable representatives from the IFC,
the Social Council, the YMCA, and the Union Board. Although the representatives of these major campus organizations will be non-voting
members, they will be able to voice their opinion on or raise any issues concerning their organizations.

The following students were then elected to various student council committees: Joe Kilpatrick, Academic Scheduling Committee; Bruce Wethe, Non-Academic Scheduling
Committee; Bill Watson, Traffic Committee; Fletcher Hartsell, Magazine Advisory Board. Also, Franklin Anderson, Ben Cannon, Bud Cousar, Mike Bates, Fletcher
Hartsell, Peter Hobbie, Mike Powell, and Bill Watson were elected to the Constitutional Revision Committee. Mike Bates was appointed interim
chairman of this committee by council President Tom Earnhardt.

In another meeting Wednesday night, Sam Darby presented the proposed constitution for a Residence Hall Association, which is now being
planned by a student-faculty committee. Discussion was postponed until the council members had read the proposed constitution.

Annuals Readied For Distribution
Copy and pictures for Quips and Cranks, the Davidson annual, were sent to the printers during the early part of
this week. The annuals should be returned to Davidson for distribution to students between May 15-20. According to Ed Dwelle,
co-editor of the annual with Tom Theil, this yearbook does not conform to the traditionally accepted format that has existed
for the past 20 years.
