VOL. LVI

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1967

Visiting Deans Discuss Plans

By ROBERT PYEATT
Staff Writer

Part of Davidson's competition in the small liberal arts college field laid its drawing cards on the tables in front
of generally impressed students and faculty members during a campus visit Sunday and Monday. Leroy Greason, Dean of the College
at Bowdoin College in Bowdoin, Me., and Robert Ward, Assistant Dean of Students at Amherst College in Amherst, Mass., discussed
programs at their schools and possible curriculum innovations at Davidson with the Blue Sky Committee and its Student Life Subcommittee
Monday.

Greason explained a “senior center” program Bowdoin initiated three years ago, in which seniors live in a special residence hall
with classroom facilities and take one or two seminar courses in subjects outside their major field. Ward discussed the new
curriculum Amherst has initiated this year. “In the senior center at Bowdoin, seniors are somewhat separated — they are not
active in fraternities, the school newspaper and yearbook, and other busy activities. There is more concentration on what lies beyond
college,” Greason said in a Stimulus discussion group Monday night. “We are introducing them to sophisticated topics outside their major
field, applying the method and outlook they have gained from three years of liberal education,” he continued. “The application of
the insights gained from the liberal education is the basis of our senior center program.”

Ward characterized a liberal education as “an attitude of mind, a particular set of mind. Our curriculum changes are to
allow more freedom to let students turn to what interests them.” Both Greason and Ward were brought to the campus
at the instigation of the Blue Sky’s Student Life Subcommittee. Greason remarked that the typical undergraduate course is highly structured.
The senior center program provided experience in reading and obtaining basic information with minimum direction, as a kind of “pre-adult
experience.” The program corrects the contradiction of a senior doing highly sophisticated work in his major field having to take
a tightly structured introductory course in something that interests him.

The senior center program is expressly tailored to Bowdoin, Greason emphasized. He said that he would probably not advocate this
same program for all other colleges. It is also being constantly re-examined, and several problems have been noted in the
areas of faculty time and course loads. A pass-fail grading system is used in the senior center, and part of
its success can be attributed to this, Greason believes. “It has helped to reduce tension between professor and students,” he
explained. “There is no longer the pressure for a good grade.”

“At Amherst we have independent study programs on a pass-fail basis,” Ward said. “This is the only reasonable system. Freshmen
and sophomores must take interdisciplinary courses for an educational tooling process. This is to illuminate questions and procedures and give
them preparation. After this we feel they can function in less structured courses.” Neither Amherst nor Bowdoin is seriously contemplating
inaugurating a system with no grades whatsoever, Greason and Ward pointed out. There has been little criticism of the senior
center program from the seniors themselves, according to Greason. However, he believes it has caused criticism of other areas (See
DEANS, Page Four)

SPRING SPORTS BEGIN SEASON (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY THREE

THE ALIENATION OF SENIORS

Greason (L) and Mike Bates Discuss Bowdoin’s Senior Center

Faculty Committee Urges Social Club Establishment

40 Must Now Agree To Join For 1 Year

Establishment of a social and eating club was approved and recommended to the faculty by its Committee on Fraternities, Clubs
and Social Life yesterday. The recommendation depends on 40 students agreeing to remain members for one year. The deadline for
this commitment is April 15. The group, which has adopted the temporary name of Campus Club, will be open to
all students. Approval of the construction of one or two houses for an organization like the Campus Club was given
by the Board of Trustees in April, 1965, but all efforts to organize a group until now have been unsuccessful.

“The total social affiliation program should have little detrimental effect on the club,” according to the chairman of the group's
steering committee, Franklin Anderson, “because the Campus Club will be different enough and offer enough that it should have no
trouble gaining members.” About 30 students sparked the recommendation with a request for eating facilities for the club. The effort
to organize started six weeks ago, mainly among freshmen, but now is composed of more upperclassmen than freshmen. The proposal
presented to the committee called for an extensive remodeling of Lingle Manor, with the addition of a dining room and
kitchen facilities. However, the committee decided to leave to the faculty a decision of whether to construct a house or
renovate Lingle Manor. The group of students behind the effort has chosen a steering committee of nine members, and occasionally
eats together in Wildcat A or B in the Union. Under the plan approved in principle by the faculty committee.

New Davidsonian Staff To Publish Next Issue

Enthusiasm, Energy

Enthusiasm and energy seeking any outlet from floor-pacing to politics characterize Tom Earnhardt, recently elected Student Council president. The tall,
thin junior who can best be found late at night working in his room in faded yellow ski underwear was
described by out-going council president Chuck Matthews as one of the hardest workers that the council has ever had.

Earnhardt’s rise in student government was foreshadowed in his first year at Davidson as he became known for his ready
freshman-like salutation of “Greetings” and for his determined drive to raise sufficient funds for an active debate program, a goal
which he accomplished despite the claim of some that he antagonized some of his benefactors by his persistence. This year
he has initiated more student participation in applicant recruitment by arranging for students to represent the school at high school
College Day programs, a project which relieved pressure on the Admissions Office as well as allowing the school to be
represented more widely. A second program in conjunction with the Admissions Department has sent teams of students out to high
school assemblies to present general information about post high school education. These two efforts have won Director of Admissions H.
E. White's enthusiastic backing for the balding history major from Thomasville. “The most astounding thing about Tom,” said White, “is
that he has carried out the projects almost entirely on his own, with a minimum of help from me.”

Earnhardt's detractors point to his tendency to act in a scatter-brained manner unless he has a direct outlet for his
energy, and they fear that his characteristic “friendly dog” manner may limit his effectiveness in driving for student goals. Matthews
asserted, however, “One of his main contributions is to show that some students do have an interest in the college
as a whole and do not gripe to the administration. He should do a tremendous job next year.”New staff will
take over to put out the next issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, which will appear two weeks from tomorrow. The new
staff, appointed by recently-elected Editor-in-Chief Sam Boyte, will be headed by Managing Editors Ed Embree and Robbie Hooker and Sports
Editor Bob Reid. Bill Watson will be business manager for the coming year’s operations. Charles McEwen will take over the
position of copy editor, while Franklin Anderson and Robert Pyeatt will become assistant managing editors. Bob Dunham will be news
editor. Mike Johnson will be assistant business manager, and Jack Wellman will be advertising manager. Boyte expressed extreme pleasure with
the staff, pointing to the professional experience held by the majority of those handling the coming year's news and to
the competence which all have demonstrated in previous DAVIDSONIAN operations.

The club would receive a seat on the IFC and participate in rush. They would also receive Lingle Manor’s seat
on the Social Council. Present members of Lingle Manor would be guaranteed a continuance of their present privileges if they
did not wish to join the Campus Club. However, the present Lingle Manor group would be dissolved as a separate
group. Tentative plans worked out by the steering committee call for a variety of activities next year, from off-campus parties
to student-faculty retreats on campus issues. The cost of membership in the Campus Club is projected by the steering committee
to be less than that of most fraternities. An initiation fee will be required, but most of it will be
returned to a member in the form of his last month's board when he graduates or leaves the college. According
to George Cretekos, treasurer for the group, the fee is mainly for capital with which to begin the group. The
steering committee is now circulating copies of a statement of commitment for students wishing to join for next year. The
statement requires a $10 deposit by April 15 as an assurance to the college of more than passing interest in
the club.

IFC Elects 5 Members For New Social Council
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council elected five members of the new Social Council and postponed Greek Week activities until April 17-21 in
its Tuesday night meeting. Representatives of ten fraternities submitted 19 nominations for the five Social Council positions. Social Council chairman
David Jennings was present at the meeting to discuss the qualifications which members should possess. After remarks by each representative
about one of his nominees and recommendations of specific candidates by Jennings, the IFC chose rising sophomore Sid Cottingham, rising
juniors Hal Young, John Durham, and George Rogister, and rising senior Steve Sands. The IFC agreed to postpone selection of
its official delegates to the Social Council until after all fraternities had completed elections of new IFC representatives; however, Sid
Cottingham, newly-elected IFC representative of SAE, was chosen among the five at-large delegates.

The decision to postpone Greek Week was made because of a number of complications with the April 3-7 date—difficulties in
arranging for the Monday night banquet and securing a good speaker, the need for additional time by the IFC’s Greek
Week Committee, and the desire of several fraternities for more time to make preparations for the week. Additional business included
a discussion of possible pledge projects, particularly assistance with a kindergarten project for underprivileged children, and a decision not to
award a Best Pledge Class Trophy. An appeal was also made by President Gus Cochran for a halt to the
pilfering of trophies and other items from fraternity houses and for the return of those items taken. Vice President Bobby
Vagt announced that the IFC Judicial Board would consist of Steve Couch, Jim MacNair, Chip Vogan, and the presidents of
Beta, ATO, and KA.

(Staff Photos by Weems)

FULL HOUSE
Smith (L) and Driesell Field Questions
Coaches Claim Subsidization A Benefit To Whole College
By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

The present policy of athletic subsidization is necessary if Davidson is to continue competing with better quality teams, coaches Homer
Smith and Lefty Driesell argued Tuesday. Speaking at Open End, the coaches also maintained that subsidization does not channel telling
amounts of money from academic considerations. The program, they added, is also useful to the college.

“We can't win unless we recruit good boys,” said Driesell before a crowd of about 250 faculty and students. “We're
not doing anything illegal or damaging to Davidson College.” Smith added, “We’re here to clear the air on this issue.”
However, several students and faculty lamented that the discussion did not serve to clear up any issues, but merely revealed
the complexity of the problem. “It comes down to a question of values,” said senior Ed Dwelle. “The question is
do you value athletics at this school or academic fields?”

Driesell argued that subsidization is necessary to compete with good teams. He stated that he was hired to build a
successful basketball program at Davidson, and that scholarships were necessary for this. Smith and Driesell then maintained that subsidization does
not present the college with a financial burden. Gate receipts from basketball and football pay virtually all the expenses of
the two programs, they said, but if the college desubsidized these sports, such action would erase these gains. Without these
receipts, the coaches argued, the college would be forced to pay for basic expenses of the sports from other funds.
This, Smith and Driesell maintained, would increase the drain on the college's budget by the athletic department.

Dr. J. G. Martin, professor of chemistry and member of the Davidson Self-Study Committee, noted that the expenses of the
athletic program in 1953 stood at 13% per cent of the net operating costs of the college. In 1963-64, that
figure had declined to 10 per cent. Martin also noted that the percentage of instructional expenses had risen from 38.8
per cent of the operating budget in 1953 to 43 per cent in 1963. The coaches also maintained that subsidization
does not strain the college admission requirements. “We have a boy in Carlisle, Pa., who is a championship wrestler with
1500 college boards,” said Smith. “He will come here on a football scholarship.”

Widespread recruiting helps publicize the college, Driesell said, and therefore benefits the academic side of the institution. “When I go
see a boy in Maryland, New Jersey or Oklahoma,” Driesell said, “I give the counseling office a profile of our
student body. They are always impressed by our standards.” Admissions Director H. Edmunds White concurred that in the last six
years the number of qualified applications has risen phenomenally. However, he stated that a variety of factors may have contributed
to this rise. He declined to credit any one consideration as decisive.

Both coaches admitted, however, that they are unable to figure the financial cost of their two sports. They argued that
problems like stadium depreciation, payments to ushers and policemen, and travel expenses are often difficult to account for in the
budget and make assessing total costs almost impossible. Both coaches denied any violations of NCAA regulations in their recruiting or
training procedures. “I don't see why people here complain,” Driesell said, “when the head of the NCAA complimented us on
our practices. Neither I nor Coach Smith has ever done anything in violation of NCAA rules.”
