NEW BREED OF ACTIVISTS (See Page Six)

VOL. LVII

Earnhardt Says Students To Hold Additional Posts

By ROBERT PYEATT
Assistant Managing Editor

Students may soon hold more positions on faculty committees and may appear before some trustee committees, Student Council President Tom Earnhardt said Wednesday.

Student Life Committee members have been discussing possibilities for further student participation on several faculty committees.

Graduate Condemns Airmen

American soldiers are killing defenseless Vietnamese civilians without provocation, a recent Davidson graduate said in a national magazine article.

Thomas F. Loflin, a 1964 Phi Beta Kappa graduate, said that on at least six occasions he heard U.S. helicopter pilots boast of killing Vietnamese civilians. Loflin, who took advanced ROTC at Davidson, sold a story with his charges to Avant Garde magazine.

The first time he heard the boast was in a shower at Camp Holloway, near Pleiku, Vietnam, where Loflin was stationed for four months last year. According to Loflin, a pilot in the shower complained of having his watch stolen by a “gook." He said the pilot vowed “every time I go up I'm going to be looking for some gooks. I got me three today... I swooped right down and zapped them.”

In an interview at Chapel Hill, where Loflin is now a Morehead Scholar at the University of North Carolina, he said that he did not think the pilot's statement was an idle boast. “It seems like every time I sat down with the pilots at a meal sooner or later one would, in effect, say he had murdered Vietnamese without any basis for this action.”

Loflin, a Dana Scholar and winner of the D. G. Martin Journalism Award while at Davidson, claimed it was mostly junior officers who did the boasting and complaining about the war.

If the Blue Sky Committee is disbanded in the near future, the council will attempt to secure at least two spots on the faculty Educational Policy Committee, Earnhardt explained. Two non-voting student members were appointed to the Blue Sky Committee last spring. Bobby Lane is still meeting with the committee, but Doug Woodworth was graduated in June.

Earnhardt, a member of the Student Life Committee, hopes that the Committee will recommend students to serve on various faculty committees. “It's my hope that additional students will be appointed to committees having sparse student representation, such as Religious Policy (which only has one student),” Earnhardt commented. “Students can be appointed to several committees having no students at all, such as Artist Series and Public Lectures.”

"Hopefully new lines of communication can be opened up with all areas of the college administration. Already there is the possibility of students appearing before several trustee committees,” he said. “The additional representation on certain faculty committees opens new opportunities for student contributions to the college community,” Earnhardt said.

Student Council Seeks To Double Yearly Budget

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council decided Monday to turn in a proposed budget of $2200 to the Student-Faculty Finance Committee for consideration at its upcoming meeting. This figure represents an increase of $1250 over last year's proposed Student Council budget. The additional money will be used for an expanded student recruiting program, expanded possibilities for attending various conventions and a revived student exchange program.

Fletcher Hartsell and Geoff Seamans were named as delegates to the meeting of the Finance Committee. A group of council members was designated to talk to Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics, about allocating seats immediately behind the team for students at basketball games in the Charlotte Coliseum. A council resolution backing such a proposal was unanimously passed.

Plott Settles Out Of Court In Train-Auto Damage Suit

An out-of-court settlement culminated litigation last week of three suits filed by members of Donald Plott’s family after an auto-train collision here more than two years ago. The settlement was made Sept. 14 for Plott, professor of music. Plott's son, brother, and niece sued the Southern Railway Co. for damages sustained when a Southern train backed into Plott’s car on Dec. 22, 1964. The collision occurred at the railroad crossing on Griffin Street. His brother and niece sued Plott himself as a “friendly party.” Plott was the driver of the vehicle.

There was and still is no signal at the crossing to warn of an approaching train. The railroad based its defense on the contention that the train’s crew was observing adequate safety precautions as the train entered the crossing. About six months before the accident, according to Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson, the State Highway Commission enlisted the support of the Town of Davidson and Davidson College in a request to Southern Railway officials that a warning signal be set up at the crossing. The highway commission was willing to assume 90 percent of the cost of the project. The railroad would have paid 10 percent of the cost. The railroad refused the commission's request, according to Jackson. Railroad officials did agree to stop parking cars near the crossing and have kept that agreement, Jackson said.

Council members turned in their schedules to Secretary Sam Darby so that he might work out a schedule for opening the renovated Student Council office.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1967

BOBBY LANE

THE NEW LOOK IN CHAMBERS (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWO

National Greeks Push New Affiliation Plan

By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

National representatives of Davidson's 12 fraternities have presented an alternative to the college’s proposed total social affiliation program. In a draft of a resolution received last Friday by the office of President D. Grier Martin, the national fraternities proposed an extended rush period to follow immediately after formal rush and be conducted on “an intensive, personal basis under highly favorable circumstances.” The fraternities also tentatively rejected the college's proposed affiliation program.

The resolution draft, prepared at a meeting of executive secretaries of the 12 fraternities at Estes Park, Colo., and dated July 12, indicated an understanding and sympathy with the college's objectives.

Trustee Group Approves Principles Of Blue Sky

The trustees’ Education Committee reacted favorably to the work of the Blue Sky Committee at a joint meeting of the two groups Wednesday, Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston said. “The trustee committee expressed hearty agreement with the principles on which we are trying to form a new program,” Johnston reported.

The Wednesday meeting was the first time any of the trustees had met with the Blue Sky Committee to discuss the proposed new curriculum. Johnston emphasized that the trustee committee made no decisions about the report and only explored some of the possibilities inherent in the report. “I hope that the new curriculum, when approved by faculty and trustees, can be implemented next year,” he said. “Official decisions will not be made until later in the fall.”

Organized last fall, the Blue Sky Committee voted to accept two non-voting student members from a list submitted by the Student Council. In November Bobby Lane and Doug Woodworth were chosen. Woodworth graduated in June. A timetable set September of 1968 as the deadline for instituting the committee's report. Released last May, the committee report made the following recommendations:From the second period until 3 p.m., various members were assigned to study the possibilities of keeping classrooms in Chambers open at night for study and tutorial purposes and sponsoring an "open-end type" assembly in which students could question President D. Grier Martin and other administration members. A three-day symposium featuring guest speakers and a series of shorter symposia on practical issues such as stock market investing, featuring Davidson professors, were recommended for investigation. Joe Kilpatrick was assigned to investigate the possibility of the athletic department's giving letters to the sailing team. President Tom Earnhardt raised a personal objection to the increased prices at the Union Snack Bar and appointed a three-man committee to investigate. Students keeping guns on campus were reminded that they must be turned over to Grey Pash, gunroom keeper, for storage, Earnhardt said.

—Change to a three-semester calendar with the student taking three courses during the first two terms and two during the last;
—Institute area examinations in four areas (language, literature and the arts; religion and philosophy; natural sciences and mathematics; and social science) to be taken at the end of the sophomore year;
—Discontinue ROTC except on a voluntary basis for no academic credit;
—Reduce the foreign language requirement to the second-year level;
—Require three courses in each of the distribution areas, two of each to be passed before the junior year;
—Establish an Honors College for individuals who show "exceptional intellectual ability and maturity."

Other proposals included a voluntary Career/Service program for one term of the junior year; a non-Western studies program, a remedial freshman English program, and a Learning Center for independent study. The Blue Sky Committee represents Davidson's first curriculum overhaul in the last forty years.

THE BRASS

However, 10 of the 12 fraternities said they were either constitutionally unable or unwilling to accept the proposed program. The controversial proposal was drawn up last year by Davidson fraternity presidents at the request of the Interfraternity Council. Faculty approval was given to the fraternity presidents' plan last spring. The trustees, however, delayed decision on the plan at their spring meeting to allow more time for study. The resolution never clearly outlined specific objections to the proposal. It did call attention to the fact that, under the proposed program, the fraternity system would be obligated "to extend substantial membership benefits to... non-bid students in the hopes that many or most will ultimately be bid, pledged, and initiated..."

Taking advantage of the action of the college's trustees in their meeting last spring, the fraternity executive secretaries presented an alternative proposal which was constitutionally and otherwise acceptable to them. The alternative proposal called for an extended rush to immediately follow the end of formal rush and to be carried out on "an intensive, personal basis under highly favorable circumstances." Under this plan, non-bid students would be allowed to choose which fraternities they would like to re-visit and the order in which they would do so. They would then eat at each house, as a paying guest, for a one-week period after which they would rotate to the next fraternity which they had chosen. This type of proposal was (See NATIONAL, Page Six)

STEP To Seek Tutors

Members of the Student Tutorial Education Project (STEP) hope to reach a number of underprivileged school children in the Davidson-Cornelius community this fall. According to Mike Norris, who helped to organize the group in 1966, about 50 students can be used effectively in the program. He said that he hopes that additional students will show interest so that the program can be expanded. The specific goal of STEP in the past has been to help those local school children who have had unusual difficulties with their studies. To attain this objective, STEP members have tutored the children, and through friendship built the self-confidence that children in school need. STEP, which is affiliated with the YMCA, is directed on campus by junior Bobby King. Norris is spending this year in full-time service to VISTA and has been placed here in the Davidson community. STEP members have plans of expanding their program this year by working among local teenagers. It has also been suggested that the tutored children be brought together for picnics or field trips.

Push For Campus Club ‘Temporarily’ Stalled
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Managing Editor

Attempts by Independents to formally organize themselves and take a place in Davidson’s unsettled social set-up have apparently been sidetracked—at least for the time being. A spokesman for the Campus Club, a group of about three dozen Independents that petitioned the administration last May for official recognition and housing, said this week the now-dormant group had no plans “at this moment” to renew its efforts. But sophomore Franklin Anderson, chairman of the Campus Club's steering committee, said, “The door is still open. We may try again.”

The club's petition was rejected by the administration last May for two reasons:
—The group was several names shy of a requisite number of committed members.
—The administration considered it unwise to proceed until after definite action had been taken on the proposed total affiliation social program.

The Campus Club’s petition went first to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life, which recommended in late April that the club be established and given housing if 40 students would commit themselves to membership and pay the necessary fees. The faculty committee further recommended that the administration make "extensive renovations" in Lingle Manor for the group's use. However, the club found only 35 prospective members. The Campus Club's efforts were the most recent in what has become an almost annual attempt of dissatisfied Independents to organize themselves. In recent years, there has been talk of an eating club, but no results—leaving Lingle Manor as the only organized social outlet for Independents. The Campus Club failed mainly because “there just wasn't enough time,” according to W. G. Workman, chairman of the new Faculty Committee on the College Union, Fraternities and Social Life. “It takes more than a year to get one of these things started,” he said. “I have an idea that if the group works on it this semester, there will be a resurgence of interest after pledging (in February) and this thing could be carried through.”

The idea was born in idle conversation among Independents shortly after last year's pledging, according to Anderson. It began with four freshmen, but by spring over half of the interested group came from upperclassmen. In early March, a nine-man steering committee headed by Anderson was elected, and the committee oversaw the club's activities thereafter. According to club plans, the club would provide board and social opportunities much like a fraternity's, but mem- (See CLUB, Page Six)

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, September 23
2 p.m. Football
Greenville, S. C.
Davidson vs. Furman
7 p.m. Salem Frosh Mixer

Sunday, September 24
4 p.m., Wind Ensemble Concert
Morrison Room Quadrangle

Tuesday, September 26
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly
Love Auditorium
James K. Batten
Charlotte Observer Washington Bureau

Wednesday, September 27
10 p.m. Open End
Bobby Lane

Thursday, September 28
10:20 a.m. Chapel
Union Lobby
Love Auditorium
Earl H. Brill
Episcopal Chaplain
American University

9 p.m. Project of the Americas (PRAM)
Green Room, Union
Membership Meeting