SC FINALS SET POSITION

Rival Coaches View Dog-Fight In Tournament Picture

By BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editor

With the opening rounds of the Southern Conference basketball tournament less than a week away, coaches and teams from the eight participating schools have begun preparing for the three days of competition that will choose a representative for the NCAA title. Now conference coaches are expecting a nip and tuck conference battle that will not be decided until the final game.

“The tournament is up for grabs,” said Warren Mitchell, head coach of third-ranked William and Mary, of the conference. After their win over George Washington last Saturday, the Mountaineers have a firm grip on first place after the regular season play. Close behind are Davidson in second and William and Mary and Richmond both jockeying for the number three spot in the standings.

But few coaches are viewing the conference eliminations as merely a duel among West Virginia, Davidson, William and Mary, or Richmond. Mitchell remarked that the season has proved that any conference challenger can defeat another on any given night. Waters agreed, adding that there is no team in the conference this year that completely dominates the competition that it cancels the hopes of other ball clubs. “It (the outcome) just depends,” Mitchell said, “on who has the best cheer intensity.”

With a Coliseum victory over contender Davidson and a possible third-place slot to their credit, William and Mary may prove to be a deciding factor in the competition. Mitchell’s Indians have mounted a bed-sitting offense sparked by center Ron Pomeroy and guard Rain Page.

Davidson’s winless swimmers broke a season-long tradition this week when the battled splashers won their first meet of the year. The season’s single victory came over Appalachian swimmers here Tuesday by a 60-34 margin. The win is countered, however, by 10 losses.

There were seven individual first-places and one relay victory for the Wildcats. Eddie Beach, high individual scorer with 13 points, won the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard butterfly. Bobby Vagt earned 10 points for his first-place finishes in the 200-yard and 500-yard freestyle. His 500-yard freestyle time won by one-tenth of a second.

IMAC STANDINGS
Kappa Sig .......... 0
ATO ............... 3
Sigma Chi .......... 2
SAE ............... 0-3
Phi Gam ........... 1
Phi Delt .......... 2
Beta .............. 5
Sigma Nu .......... 5
Independents ...... 6
Pi Kappa .......... 4
GPE ............... 2

FINMEN SPRING FOR TAKEOFF As ‘Cats Outstretch Appies For First Win

Swimmers Swamp Appies To Chalk Up First Victory

Larry Eckermann easily took the 1,000-yard freestyle and finished second behind Joe Friebele in the 200-yard backstroke. Steve Barden won the 200-yard breaststroke. After being thrown into the pool by the team, Coach Tom Stevens remarked, “I was glad to get that. It has been a long time coming.” Team manager Sam Tallman had little to say after he was thrown in.

The 'Cat victory overshadowed the defeat here last Friday when William and Mary won by a score of 62-40. Individual first-places for Davidson were won by John Helm in the 50-yard freestyle and Joe Friebele in the 200-yard backstroke. The final meet of the season is here Monday against a tough VMI team.

Davidson’s grapplers assured themselves of the best record for a Wildcat wrestling team since 1935 by defeating North Carolina State, 19-15. In the match on the State mats, Coach Charles Parker's squad won nine matches, tied one, and actually lost only one. The sparse squad, which calls itself the Magnificent Seven, extended its season record to 6-1.

“It is a great pleasure to beat teams with only seven men on our team. The boys have been doing a great job,” said Parker in praise of his well-trained matmen. At Raleigh last Friday, wins were turned in by Colin Hinson in the 123-pound class, Donan Cromartie in the 137-pound division, Julian Prosser in the 145-pound event, Kerry Keith in the 177-pound class, and Lowell Bryan in the heavyweight. Cromartie, Prosser, and Keith shut out their opponents, while Bryan pinned his man. Hudson gave up only one point as did team captain Joe Buffington in wrestling to a draw. The 152- and 167-pound divisions were forfeited to State.

By virtue of their performance in this match, Buffington and Keith preserved their undefeated records. Hudson and Bryan have lost only one match each this year. Parker gave special praise to Cromartie, “Donan has done a fine job of improving. He has won four straight matches.” Davidson's wins have been over State, UNC, Duke, Furman, and St. Andrews. This is the first time since 1935 that Davidson has had such a successful wrestling season.

Coaches, Students Recognize PE Faults

During the past three weeks, many criticisms and new ideas which should be corrected have been expressed about physical education at Davidson. In this concluding installment of a three-part series, the writer has collected what, in his opinion, seems to be the best suggestions for improvement in the program.

By Tom Cook, Sports Editor

There are a myriad of ways to change the physical education program at Davidson, but, unfortunately, space and personnel prevent most of them. Some changes, though minor in scope, would probably improve the department immensely. The cut system should be studied and brought in line with the college's cut policy. Eleven free cuts are too many and most students and coaches realize this, but to liberalize free cuts up to eight, the level of chapel cuts for freshmen and sophomores, would be ideal. Make-up cuts, a gift from the PE Department, have made the restriction of five cuts palatable, but the constant rescheduling of classes near the end of each semester and the necessary cutting of academic classes to make up the four classes in a continuous place if credit is to be given for physical education.

Every one of the coaches and most of the students interviewed during the past two weeks have been adamant in their support for making PE a credit-earning course such as Basic ROTC. The details can be worked out if the program is instituted, but support for the program was divided between continuing the pass-fail grade and using letter grades. Consideration should be given to whether an instructor can honestly evaluate students against each other which would be required if letter grades were given.

Dr. Tom Scott and Coach Heath White have justified not allowing sophomores to pick their activities, with minor exceptions. But if students are willing to change periods to get a certain sport, then choices might be sensible on a limited scale. The Athletic Department should probably investigate the need of hiring a PE instructor who would be the primary operator of the PE program. Absenteeism by coaches has been curbed by the use of forms which coaches must file when they will be out of town, but if the PE department is to ever provide a program which will be satisfactory to everyone, additional personnel need to be added to concentrate on physical education.

With the recent lengthening of PE periods, some coaches need to change their attitude, students say. If the coaches would instruct with a positive attitude, they say, much of the griping of students could be prevented. This is not much of a request, but it is a necessity if Davidson PE is to improve significantly. For example, Short told boys chosen they could “attract girls, improve their virility and build...”

MEET YourFRIENDS GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI season in 30 years that a Wildcat squad has beaten these three ACC teams in the same season. The only defeat that the ‘Cats have suffered was at the hands of VMI in a Southern Conference match. Coach Parker added that he has been amazed that his team has done so well. He pointed out that Davidson has been forced to forfeit one or two events in every match. He cited the fact that the team has suffered no serious injuries as an important factor in this season's success. The grapplers faced their strongest opponents of the season this afternoon on their home mats in a match against The Citadel. The Bulldogs are undefeated and favored to win the Conference, muscles** if they took “PE Honors.” Early during his research, the writer was told by a junior, “I'd like to have some sort of voluntary class for upperclassmen who want to keep in shape through an organized program.” Something like what this student wants is being tested experimentally this quarter and has evidently met with favorable results, the coaches involved note. “PE Honors,” as the coaches called it while introducing it to the PE classes, is an afternoon class emphasizing physical fitness. It was developed by the football staff as an out-of-season means of fitness that the team members could do together since the weight-training room is scarcely large enough for the starting team.

Gourney Pairings Posted, “Pomeroy and Panneton have, in our one-two punch this year,” said Mitchell. “Both boys can shoot and have good natural ability.” The Indians had hoped for a balanced offense this season. In the backcourt, Pomeroy stands 6.6, while forwards Tim Boughesty stand well above six feet, giving the Indians sufficient height. “But things haven't worked in some areas,” Mitchell commented. “The guard situation has been our biggest problem. We started off having too many turnovers, and lately that problem has come up again. We have the height we need, but we need quickness. We've learned you can't do much with height without speed. But I believe Davidson has had some problems with that too,” competing teams may depend on the early round pairings. In the team — probably George Washington — on Thursday night. The loser will then face the number six team. Some coaches believe the first round, front-runner West Virginia will face eighth-seeded East Carolina. If Davidson defeats The Citadel tomorrow and finishes second, the ‘Cats will face the seventh-ranked competition, probably Furman.

The outcome of tomorrow's battle between William and Mary and Richmond will also give Davidson some advantage over the rest of the conference. “No matter how you look at it,” said Mitchell, “the Coliseum is an advantage for Davidson. It's virtually Davidson's home court. But then again,” he added, “try to tell Hetzel and those guys how much of an advantage it is in the tournament.” The Colonials are a fast, aggressive dark horse of the tourney because of their ability to beat the top teams. Sometimes one can find parallels which might give some indication into the events next weekend. As you remember, West Virginia lost down here last year and then beat us in the return game at Charleston. Last time was the first time that the tournament game represented a rubber match and Davidson pulled it out. The only other time that situation occurred was in 1963-64 but the ‘Cats never were able to meet West Virginia in the finale. This year the scene is set for the rematch and the only chance of meeting the Mounties is in the finals. But we have to get there. Another parallel. Richmond was our second last year and they were trounced, 84-65. The Spiders were handled easily in Johnston Gym but they managed to beat us at home early in January. This is another rubber game, but Richmond won't cut down any nets after it.

DAVIDSON can win this tournament. That is not to say we will. We have been awfully erratic this year, and we might lose on any of the three nights. Last year was the first time everyone realized that you have to win the first game to play the second, and the second to win the third. This year's conference is the most balanced in many years. West Virginia brings the best record by far into the fracas, but Bucky's boys won a lot early in the season and have played only five conference games since the new began. They have had their troubles too, witnessed by the shifting of guards to complement Ron Williams and the near-shutouts in two games of Dave Reaser by Mike O'Neill. Davidson learned the magic formula for winning the Southern Conference Tournament: play each game like it's your last. No one thought of West Virginia until we had beaten Richmond and The Citadel. And we won. This has been a dismal year, disastrous by many measures. But thanks to the very thing which was scorned and cursed for years, the tournament, Davidson has second life. To meet Richmond or William and Mary, we've got to beat Furman or GW. To have a chance of winning the tournament, we have to win Friday night. Three wins and you're in. One strike and you're out.

FINAL CLEARANCE SALE AT Rush Wilson, Ltd. Group of Sport and Dress Shirts __ 3.00 ea. 7.00 ea. 8.00 ea. Group of Sweaters Group of Slacks NOW IN PROGRESS AT Rush Wilson, Ltd.