The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1967

Fearful Of Pruning

A committee can be many things. One of those things is a place where you put special little surprises to
hide them from peering eyes. You simply wrap one up in red tape, tie a discreet little knot in the
proceedings and put it away until everybody has forgotten it. We desperately hope that is not what will happen to
the report of the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life. The idea is bound to be a tempting one for
some. It will be even worse if the committees play the role that is sometimes attributed to the fraternity system.
That, of course, is the role of the polisher of rough edges, rubbing away at the oddities that stick out
until nothing is left but that familiar old zero.

Hiding behind the Woodrow Wilson quotation that begins the report is one of the most perceptive documents that has ever
appeared amongst the spider webs around here. It recommends things that some will say could never happen at Davidson. If
that pessimistic evaluation is true, then the college had better reconsider its boasts about being one of the leading schools
in the South. This subcommittee has done what few other groups around here ever do: it has produced something really
creative. Even the Blue Sky curriculum report contained few ideas that were not copied from other sources. The Student Life
Subcommittee, however, has used the information it gathered through research at other campuses to create some ideas that would be
unique for Davidson. Its report says that the group took as its assumptions the ideals of “totality,” “flexibility,” and “involvement.”
To the cynics, these could be empty words. But they could be words loaded with meaning for Davidson if the
report is not emasculated by the string of other committees which will now consider it.

Tin Pan Patriotism

One of the more inspiring songs to be dragged out of Tin Pan Alley or bounced out of Nashville (wherever
it is that songs come from nowadays) concerns a father’s advice to his son. The song is supposed to be
the father’s reply to his son's letter asking his opinion about some of the things the son has met in
college for the first time. The father magnanimously admits that some of the greatest Americans have worn long hair. Flowing
locks are supposed, therefore, to be tolerable. Then as the strains of the “Battle Hymn of the Republic” break into
the father’s monologue, he says his son’s mother will always love him even if he burns his draft card. Because,
after all, “... She is a woman.” But the father is a true patriot. If the son does not love
the good ol’ American free enterprise system, then he should not be living in it. If the son burns his
draft card, then he may as well burn his birthright because the father will not claim the disloyal rascal as
his son. Now would anyone still really care to admit that patriotism cannot be twisted into a disgustingly perverted disease?

What Might Have Been

After one gets through choking over the preamble and forgets what the proposed student constitution could have been, it is
apparent that the draft outlines a very serviceable student government. We like very much the statement that part of the
Senate’s function shall be to help in the making and implementation of college policy. Article IV, the rights and responsibilities
of students, is very worthwhile. We have said before and surely will say again we wish that the revision committee
had tried to bridge the gap between students and the rest of the college. At least the document is flexible
enough so that it does not preclude such a move. Since most other governmental details are apparently to be covered
in the by-laws, it would have been smart to include the number of dorm representatives there also. If the college
follows the advice of the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life to build a new dormitory, a full amendment will
have to be made to the constitution. That will certainly be one of the very least exciting votes ever taken
at this home of unexciting votes. The revision committee has cleaned up the clutter of the old constitution. For that
much they can be praised. It is just up to someone else now to build something on that clear land
with the flexible tool given to the student body by the revision committee.

A Nick In Time

Over the last couple of weeks the College Union Board has discussed the possibility of asking the Student Council to
reschedule to an earlier date the election of next year’s Union president. The reasoning for this discussion is that a
block-booking conference is scheduled to be held in February in order to give colleges an opportunity to purchase entertainment for
the next year at a reduced price. If the Union is represented at the conference by its outgoing president, it
cannot make really definite commitments for whatever entertainment the next year’s board might want. Special reasons then argue for the
earlier election of the Union president. But an earlier election for all student body offices is itself a good idea.
When a student takes over a new post with only a month or so to serve, as is the case
under the present system, all he can do is simply hold together his organization for the rest of the year.
He does not really have time to implement any new programs. This time comes during the first semester of the
next year. If the officer is a senior, however, his interest in his office and in Davidson begins to dwindle
during the second semester of that year. Graduate schools, marriages and jobs tend to occupy more of his planning. The
student body then generally gets the full use of its senior officers for only one semester. The junior who is
supposedly full of new ideas (why else would he run for the office) does not have time during the last
few weeks of second semester to implement his ideas. For the second semester senior, that time is more profitably devoted
to interests away from Davidson. If the second-semester senior still cares about the school, his concern should not be wasted
with the triviality of running an organization. That last semester should be a time for him to look back over
his four years to see what was really important, to see how he could have better used his organization to
improve the school. Then, if asked, he could give the advice of an elder statesman to his successor. Davidson’s present
system of having most new officers take over their posts after spring vacation wastes much of the potential of these
students. Holding elections as soon after the end of the Christmas holidays as is feasible would give the student body
more use of its representatives.

Ducking Duty

In a student body referendum held yesterday, Davidson students voted down a proposed stricter rule against dormitory fires. Reasons behind
the defeat seem to vary. Some students simply opposed the passage of “yet another rule” on campus. Some appear to
have read into the proposed regulation more than it actually would have entailed. But whatever the reasoning, the implication of
the rejection of the proposal is that the students have simply refused to accept the responsibility of having a stronger
rule against the setting of fire in the dormitories. This rejection of responsibility comes at a very inopportune time. Many
efforts have been made this year to demonstrate that the students are responsible enough to govern their dormitory life and
that they should be given a larger voice in the affairs of the college. But before added authority can be
given the voice of the students, the students must prove, first, their desire for more authority and, second, that they
can responsibly handle greater power. The rejection of the stronger fire rule will hardly help this cause.

New Constitution Likened To American Document

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

It happened in Philadelphia in 1787. It is happening again in Davidson in 1967, on a lesser scale. To the
student of American history, the resemblance between the proposed Student Government Association (SGA) Constitution and the United States Constitution is
too striking to miss, especially upon first reading the SGA Constitution. The preamble, the Senate's power to appropriate funds, the
article forbidding bills of attainder and ex post facto laws, the “lifetime” judiciary membership, the bill of rights, the provisions
for amendment—all are very reminiscent of our country's supreme document. Senior Mike Bates, “the Father of the Constitution,” said it
was not consciously modeled after the U.S. Constitution, but noted many similarities. Like James Madison, Bates did his homework by
reading the constitutions of many other schools in preparation for the task of revision. Just as the Founding Fathers were
instructed to revise the Articles of Confederation, so the Constitution Revision Committee was assigned to revise the present Constitution, drawn
up in 1937. In effect, both groups devised a different form of government from that which previously existed. The preamble
states that the Constitution is being established to “share ... responsibility with the Board of Trustees, the faculty and the
administration” in campus affairs. The response of both the students and the faculty, administration and Board of Trustees will determine
how effectively this can be done. One basic premise upon which the Constitution is based is that the dormitory structure
has become at least equal in importance to the class structure. Their representation in both the legislative and judicial bodies
will be determined partially by dormitory selection. Something which is notably missing from Article II is the failure to say
what classes the president and vice president of the SGA will be selected from. It would be wise to add
a provision that the president be a rising senior and the vice-president a rising junior, in order to ensure that
an ex-Experienced person can head the government while a younger person receives the valuable experience of serving in the President's
absence. This provision, however, is currently in the committee's projected by-laws. The size of the Senate was reduced from 32
to 23 in committee meetings, according to Bates, “so that every senator will feel free to speak out during a
meeting.” Since much of the Senate's work will be done in committees, just as in the United States Congress, this
number seems wise, since many non-senators can participate on the committees. According to Franklin Anderson, secretary of the Revision Committee,
the union of the legislative and executive is modeled somewhat after the English Cabinet-Parliament set-up. The Senate Executive Committee, like
the cabinet, will meet to decide upon the agenda for the Senate meetings. The SEC will perform the work of
the president of the present Student Council, thus providing that the work does not all fall upon one man and
yet allowing the president of the SGA to assume as much responsibility as he wishes. The Senate, like the Parliament,
has the final legislative power. The Court of Appeals, which has powers similar to that of the United States Supreme
Court, will hear only cases referred to it by inferior courts. Because there will be few people who are willing
to become so familiar with the constitution as to do a good job, it is good that a member will
remain on the committee from the time he is elected until he graduates. The Bill of Rights is one of
the most unique features of the constitution. Many of the rights assured in this article are the same as those
in the first 10 amendments to the U. S. Constitution. “The by-laws to the Constitution will contain many of the
answers to these questions,” said Anderson. “The Constitution is as short as we could make it, without leaving out what
we felt were the essential points." The by-laws will be completed and presented to the student body in February. Let's
just hope that, if the Constitution is approved, it will last as long and be as successful as the American
Constitution.

Bill Of Rights Mars Student Constitution
By JOE BEARD
Guest Columnist

It is said that among deliberate bodies, there is only one hard and fast scientific law: that the length of
time, depth of investigation and amount of discussion will all vary inversely with the importance and the significance of the
proposal. Thus, a resolution to raise the salary of the janitor may, and usually is, debated longer and more intensely
than one appropriating $20 billion for a program of poverty elimination. So also with the Constitution Revision Committee. The committee
labored many long and, from the rumors, quarrelsome months in revising the present Student Body Constitution. Over every word of
it, it would seem, there has been full and ample debate once, if not several times, during their sessions. The
result has been a revision which, though not perfect, and indeed containing many foolish provisions, is as acceptable as the
old one. However, it would seem that during the last week of their deliberations the members of the committee were
struck with some sort of madness, for during this last week—indeed, during the last session of the week—they interpolated into
the body of a commendable document an article entirely new and ill-considered, which the committee seems to have accepted as
a report without reservation from a subcommittee whose membership seems to have been singularly delinquent in reporting at all. This
subcommittee’s dutiful diligence in debating and discussing this most important portion of the Constitution is manifested by the fact that
it is a poorly disguised rewrite of a National Student Association pronouncement on student power. The depth of thought attributable
to these would-be solons may be assessed from the contradictions, meaningless sentiments and irrelevancies contained therein. Indeed, following the example
of a noted English professor, the author offers a 35-cent cigar to the first student who discovers any meaning whatsoever
in subsection IV, 3, A, which I quote: “Neither the college nor any student organization shall infringe upon the rights
of students as citizens, but students shall remain subject to the obligations of their membership in the academic community.” Or,
who can reconcile the broad concept of a liberal education presupposed throughout the revised Student Body Constitution with the narrow
concept which underlies IV, 4, A. If there be any members of these subcommittee in any way susceptible to the
grim contagion of Reason, or any student who would venture into the disillusioning realm of Rationality, I should like to
recommend Dr. Russell Kirk's article on student power in the current issue of Bill Buckley's “National Review.” If the Revision
Committee introduced this so-called “bill of rights” in order to divert any criticism from the real Constitution, then their knack
for political strategy has long been overlooked by this author. If however, it were meant to be considered seriously as
a part of the Constitution of this Student Body, the members ought to consider a visit to Dr. Kelton’s caves.

By HEYWARD CARTER
Associate Editor

Freedom Superior To Indigestible Blob

Remember the good old days of required vespers? Sunday night when the cutting was high and the leaving was easy.
John Calvin couldn’t have done any better in rounding up the saved and the damned alike for some of that
force-fed religion once a week. But then the idea that perhaps worship was perhaps a very personal thing which had
no value at all if it was not voluntary became widely enough accepted even among the trustees to cause the
abolishment—for at least a trial period—of required religion. Those who attended vespers to worship still do so and those who
went to sleep, read, or just generally screw around also still do so, but without the bother of singing hymns
between chapters or the drone of a dull speaker to help bring on a nap. Salvation at the College Church
may not be quite as widespread these days, but sincerity has certainly increased.

Sincerity and salvation are now the issues of another area of Davidson life, one which many students and faculty think
to be at least as important as religion—that is our intellectual life. Chapel-assembly periods at Davidson are cursed, in general,
with the same sort of indifference and apathy on the part of students which marked the required vespers program. This
is partly because of the quality of some of the speakers we are forced to listen to and partly simply
because we are forced to listen to them, whether they be worth listening to or not. And occasionally they are
decidedly not.

It is true that there are reasons for having a required assembly, and I'm sure that we've all heard them
at least once. But for those who missed out, reasoning runs thus: first, assembly periods are a good way to
get the student body of a school this size together once in a while—it gives us a sense of cohesiveness.
Secondly, when assembly is required a substantial percentage of boys come who would not otherwise attend and many, or some
of them wind up enjoying a speaker they would not otherwise have had the opportunity to enjoy. In reply to
the first contention, it seems to me that too much cohesion can produce not a unified group but an indigestible
blob. Surely we can get as much of that feeling of unity and good old high school spirit as we
need at athletic events and occasional necessary assemblies. But then just how much of a spirit of togetherness does a
college like Davidson need? The few individuals on campus seem to think that less, rather than more is needed in
intellectual areas and I am inclined to agree. As for making us come so we can enjoy or derive benefit
from a speaker or program we otherwise might not hear—I wish they wouldn’t be so good to us. We're all
big boys now and as Davidson students we are supposedly capable of making value judgments such as the worth of
hearing someone who has something to say or sitting in Mary's for 40 minutes. For those who are not capable
now of such judgment, it will have to come by personal experience if it comes at all—intellectual sincerity cannot be
forced any more than can religious sincerity.

There are some factors on the horizon which may help the situation somewhat. According to the Blue Sky Committee recommendations
the assembly period next year is to consist of a required half hour talk and a voluntary half hour of
discussion or “coffee” afterwards. This will let students attend who would like to come to the discussion but cannot because
of classes. This is good as far as it goes, but it still leaves two required chapel periods a week
to be filled by a sometimes inept speaker and a normally inattentive student audience. Scott Woodmansee, who is currently in
charge of the chapel-assembly program, has proposed that he be required to fill only one chapel period a week with
the $5,000 a year now allotted him. (At present he has to use this money to fill both periods, one
of which is supposed to be on a religious subject.) The other period he wants to devote to the student
and local activities such as the wind ensemble, male chorus, etc. This too is an improvement, but it still leaves
a lot of potentially worthless periods to be slept through by the many. Why not adopt Woodmansee’s proposal for one
worthwhile required period a week and make the other voluntary? Or even better, why not make all chapel periods voluntary,
with the exception of an occasional necessary student body meeting, and let each student make his own value judgment? It
is at least worth a try, and if we, the students of Davidson are as good as they tell us
we are, maybe they owe us the chance to prove it.

“Mommy, Why Can't I Go To Church?”

THE DAVIDSON COMMUNITY PLAYERS PRESENT
MISTER SAM
An original play by members of the
SANTA CLAUS
by e e cummings
recommended for children under 12
Dec. 7 & Dec. 8
8:15 p.m.
