New Residences Have Old Format

The seriousness of the present dormitory situation is exemplified by the fact that the newest dormitory on the campus is
basically the same as the original ones. When the college was founded in 1837, there were about 30 students living
in Oak and Elm Halls on what is now the west end of the campus. Their rooms opened to the
outside, their washing facilities were on the front of the building, and their outhouses were behind. The rooms were Spartan,
with beds and desks, poor lighting, and no heat.

In 1961, Richardson Hall was built and that school year accommodated 130 students. Their rooms opened onto an outside hallway
with toilet facilities just down the hall, well within walking distance of every room. The trouble was that very little
progress had been made in 124 years. Elm and Oak Halls are still with us; only they are longer, roofed,
and stacked on top of each other. The architectural format is still the same.

According to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, there is a slim chance of new dormitories being built. She sees
the problem as a question of living with what is already here. “It's like ‘which came first, the chicken or
the egg,’” she said. “Are the dorms in their present shape because of neglect on the part of the students,
or are the students negligent because living quarters are so dismal?” she continued. “It's hard to say,” she added, “but
the fact remains that destruction and neglect on the part of the students is certainly the root of our present
problem.

“It is human to be influenced by one’s surroundings (take Hattie’s for example), and our dormitories are without a doubt
detrimental to any sort of intellectually congenial atmosphere,” Mrs. Nicholls said. Rooms are bleak, lighting is poor, noise is ubiquitous,
showers scald, and long halls facilitate hall soccer and boxing matches with disquieting consistency.

Mrs. Nicholls went on to say, “There seems to be no one breaking his neck in the rush to build
new dorms, and certainly when that day comes there will be more than enough salable solutions. For the present, the
problem is to make the present buildings more livable.

“This summer, rooms will be painted different colors, lounges will be carpeted, and water fountains will be installed in certain
dorms. Action is also being taken that will hopefully effect new lounges in Watts, East, and Cannon,” she continued.

“And of course, Open House will make everyone more careful about conditions in general. The rest is up to the
students themselves. It is they who decide whether or not to shoot fire extinguishers or break down doors, and it
is they who can persuade the administration that indeed they do deserve major expenditures for dormitory improvements,” Mrs. Nicholls added.

$200,000 Set Aside For Dorm Renovation
By ED EMBREE
Managing Editor

Included in the original 10-year projection of college needs prepared for the Ford Foundation grant was $200,000 for dormitory improvement,
according to Robert Currie, college business manager. “We need the money for very essential dormitory requirements,” stated Currie.

According to Grover C. Meetze, director of physical plant, some of this money has been spent for the installation of
lavatories in each room in Watts, improved wiring in two of the freshman dorms, and the installation of light switches
in East and Cannon. Currie explained that the $200,000 figure was not “an allocation of available funds” but a fundraising
goal. “When we get the money, we will then give it to the project with the highest priority.”highest priority." "In
including dormitory upgrading in its 10-year projection of needs, the college has recognized the need for dormitory modernization," stated Currie.

RICHARDSON DAMAGE
Clock And Sign Destroyed By Students
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

A Residence Hall Association that would be able to establish periodic three-hour open dorm periods is being planned by a
committee working under Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, and Jim Terry, assistant dean of students. The idea grew out
of a proposal by Mrs. Nicholls to have times when the dormitories would be open. When planning for this was
given approval by the dean of students, a committee was formed to work out the procedures.

"The students are the ones that are going to have to take the ball here," said Mrs. Nicholls. The conditions
in the dormitories would have to be improved, and students would have to prepare for times when the buildings would
be open.

The present draft of the constitution, which should be submitted to resident students later this month, provides for a nine
or 10 member Residence Hall Council for overall supervision of the dormitories. Each dormitory would elect one representative to the
Council, with Belk electing two, for a total of eight. The president would be elected by the association, and perhaps
the vice president. Each dormitory would have a house committee composed of one representative from each floor and the council
representative, who would be chairman. Each house committee could register with the dean's office to have the dormitory open during
a three-hour period.

The times possible for open dormitories would probably be limited, "say from noon to 10 p.m.," said Mrs. Nicholls, but
she stressed that plans are far from certain. "We are aiming, if possible," she said, "to have some dorms hold
Open House before the end of the year." The house committees are designed "to organize and sponsor recreational and social
activities, too," she said. She did not rule out the possibility of a house committee sponsoring its own Open End
or party.

The Residence Hall Council would also "be responsible for some effective control of student conduct in the dorms," said Mrs.
Nicholls, mentioning that there was not a hall clock working or even there in Richardson, and that on Monday she
already had several forms requesting repair of doors in Watts that had been damaged since the vacation.

Advisory power would be granted to the Residence Hall Council in the area of dormitory regulations, since the council would
be in charge of enforcing them. Mrs. Nicholls said that she did not see the real necessity of continuing the
Student Body Regulations Board, since this group was created mainly for control of dormitory behavior.

The committee has also discussed the possibility of a study room on each hall and a reception room in each
dormitory. At present, there are no study rooms, and only Little, Belk, and Richardson have reception rooms.

Student committee members are Sam Darby, David Hubbard, B. A. Aiken, and Julian Fite. Dormitory problems are also being investigated
by the Blue Sky Committee. Their Student Life Subcommittee has working under it a Dormitory Life Committee which has submitted
recommendations to the Student Life Subcommittee. Student Life Subcommittee members are students Bill Andrews, John Gresham, and Bobby Lane and
professors James Martin, Charles Ratliff, Anthony Abbott, Alan Brinkley, William McGavock, and Hansford Epes.

PEELING PAINT
Deteriorating Bathroom Conditions

BELK TUBE TEAM
One Of Three Dormitory Lounges
