Disinterest Hurts Critiques
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The faculty evaluation project initiated by the Student Council several weeks ago has apparently not achieved the success which many
expected it would. The main cause of its lack of success appears to be a general absence of enthusiasm among
the student body. According to several participating professors, the number of critique sheets returned to them by their students has
been surprisingly small. Professor Samuel Maloney of the Bible and Humanities Departments said he had received only nine of the
36 he passed out, while Psychology Professor W. G. Workman had received only 14 of 95 by the beginning of
the second semester.

Ken Autrey, chairman of the Student Council's Academic Committee, stated that just under 75 percent of the faculty members passed
out the evaluation sheets in their classes. Some who taught small seminars or who had their own evaluation sheets did
not use those provided by the Student Council. All professors received the opportunity to do so, however.

(Staff Photo by Olson)
“WORLD’S STRONGEST MAN” Paul Anderson Lifts 65 Pounds

Anderson Urges Union Of Christianity, Sports

Paul Anderson, the ‘world’s strongest man,” interspersed feats of strength with a plea for Christian understanding and a union of
athletics and Christianity in chapel Wednesday. Anderson, who was sponsored by the local chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes,
opened his talk with a demonstration of carpentry without a hammer. He drove a nail through two boards by using
his hand as a hammer. He then related a story of a trip he made from Augusta, Ga. to his
home in Vidalia, Ga. in a car whose headlights would not dim, much to the anger of passing motorists. He
used the story to illustrate his point that people today do not understand each other.

Then he told the story of the founding of the FCA by a basketball coach who thought that athletes should
use their influence for God and understanding instead of for tobacco and liquor advertisers. His next feat of strength was
lifting two 65-pound weights, holding the two weights at arm's length on the little fingers of each hand. He then
closed the show with a smaller edition of the feat that earned him the title of “world's strongest man.” He
has officially lifted 6,000 pounds on his back, but at chapel he lifted off the floor eight Davidson FCA members
who were sitting on a platform.

The main defect in the project seems to be the time in the semester at which the professors received the
sheets. “I did not pick up the announcement until almost the last day of the semester,” said Dr. A. G.
Griffin, professor of economics, “and I simply did not have the time to pass out the sheets.” Another professor admitted
that he “just forgot about the evaluation sheets.” Professor Richard Cole of the English Department, who did pass out the
sheets, said that he picked his up on the last day and attributed the poor response partly to this fact.
All the professors seemed very enthusiastic about the critique itself. Several pointed out the value of the comments of the
students.

Lions Club Awards Prize To Seigler

The Davidson Lions Club recently awarded a $75 savings bond to junior Bill Seigler for his essay submitted in the
Lions Club Peace Essay Contest. Seigler, a history major from Mt. Airy, received the award at a banquet meeting of
the Lions Club Jan. 23. As the winner of the local contest, his paper has been submitted for the regional
competition. Using “Fear and Peace" as the topic of his 5,000-word essay, Seigler pointed out the failures of the balance
of power theory of world government. “In my paper,” Seigler said, “I tried to show how the balance of power
had failed to maintain peace, as can be seen in the First and Second World Wars and the current ‘free-world’-communist
dichotomy. As a possible remedy,” he continued, “I advocated the establishment of an unbiased world legal authority, not influenced by
national prejudices and endowed with the power to establish precedents and enforce its rulings in international affairs.”

Sunday Night Open House

The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding
open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Cole
Marrotte

Scabbard And Blade Taps New Members

The National Society of Scabbard and Blade, the ROTC honorary military organization, had its tapping ceremony Jan. 10 at drill.
The new senior members are Rich Graham, Norman Pease, Paul Curlee, Julian Fite, and Rick Moore.Peter Parrott, Hobs Allan, Don
Carroll, John Bailey, Rodney Knowles, and Jack Sherrill. The new junior members are Chip Bellamy, Gus Cochran, Rick Harrell, Steve
Humphrey, Tom Irons, Sam Hatcher, John McKenzie, Gary Peklo, Ellison Pusser, and Robert Williams. The new members were selected by
the members of Scabbard and Blade on the basis of drill excellence, not necessarily on grades. The ROTC staff serve
as advisors but are not involved in the actual selection. Scabbard and Blade was organized “to develop essential qualities of
good and efficient officers” and “to prepare educated men to take a more active part... in the military affairs of
the community.” The new members were initiated with the motto, “Duty, Honor, Country.” The second tapping ceremony of Scabbard and
Blade will occur near the end of the second semester.

HONEY’S GOURMET BUFFET
Open Monday through Friday
11:30 a.m. to 2:00
105 W. Morehead
217 N. Tryon St.

Pipe Smoker
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
maiyon mic
375-9723
Charlotte, N.C.

Charlotte
Gurley’s ESSO
Main and South Streets
Phone 892-9304
GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND!

Individual students, especially on the question concerning any unconscious mannerisms of the professors which might bother the students. None of
the professors seemed to object to negative criticism if it could help correct any flaws in their teaching or courses.
Professor George Core of the English Department mentioned, however, that students “might base their criticism on their grades at the
time they filled the sheets out.” Workman, who said he has used similar evaluation sheets for years, also pointed out
that there may be opposing reactions about the content of a course, depending upon the different types and abilities of
students. Griffin summarized the feelings of almost all the professors when he said that the sentiments of the critique are
“valid, constructive, necessary criticism which can reveal enlightening and perceptive thinking on the part of the student.” Since the professors
have not received all the evaluation sheets from their students yet, or read them all, there can be no definite
conclusion about the program, but, as Autrey said, “We hope to form a student-faculty committee in the near future to
evaluate the evaluation.”

Kelly Will Discuss Theological Education
Dr. Balmer H. Kelly will discuss the nature of theological education at Davidson in chapel Tuesday. Kelly is the president
and also the professor of Biblical theology at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. A graduate of King College and Union
Theological Seminary, he also received his ThD from Princeton Theological Seminary.

The Davidsonian
February 3, 1967
Page Three

Opera To Feature Chorus Members
Davidson Male Chorus members are currently growing beards for their roles in the opera Rigoletto which will be presented Monday
evening. The Charlotte Opera Association is in charge of the production, starring Metropolitan Opera tenor John Alexander. The opera will
play Monday evening at Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte. Jess Walters, former principal baritone with the Covent Garden Opera, London, England, will
sing the title role. The opera will be sung in English. Walters has sung the role of Rigoletto over 100
times. Rigoletto was composed by Giuseppe Verdi in 1851. It contains some of Italian opera's finest music, especially the quartet
in the last act.

Baltimore Symphony To Open Artist Series
The 1967 Artist Series will bring to the campus during the spring three programs. The first presentation will be by
the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Peter Herman Adler, on Feb. 13. Each spring and fall extensive tours are
taken by the 82 musicians of this orchestra. An internationally known pianist will be presented on March 10. Philippe Entremont,
known across six continents for his interpretations of romantic works, has been a favorite with American concert audiences since he
first appeared in this country in 1963. Born into a French musical family, he became first laureate and grand prix
winner of the Marguerite Long Jacques Thibaud International Concours at the age of 17. The final program in the series
will be given on April 12 by Jose Molinas and his company of Flamenco dancers, singers, and instrumentalists. This group
first appeared in the United States in 1962 and has since danced its way across the country several times.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti.
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

More education? Come on, IBM, you’re putting me on!
Yes, we are. We're putting you on the track of an exciting new kind of career for men and women
with IBM’s Data Processing Division. Best of all, IBM will train you for your new career. (That’s where the “more
education” comes in.) At full pay, of course.

A career in Computer Applications.
Just what is Computer Applications? It’s a mix of your engineering, scientific or math education with your ability to solve
business problems and advise business management. A mix that can give you opportunities for growth, advancement, and financial reward. When
you've completed the extensive training program, you'll use your newly mixed talents to advise our customers on the most effective
and efficient ways to apply IBM’s information processing equipment to their business problems.

So, come on. To an exciting, rewarding IBM career.
Whatever your immediate commitments, whatever your area of study, sign up now for an on-campus interview with IBM, February 9.
If, for some reason, you aren’t able to arrange an interview, drop us a line. Write to: Manager of College
Recruiting, IBM Corporation, Room 810, 1447 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30309. IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
