a on « * Ey v Jae ow KNOWLES: THE EASY WAY But Not Stuff Enough - -TOM COOK SPORTS EDITOR

BEATING THE BUSHES

HOMER AND THE BOYS haven’t been seen too much on campus since November, and the reason behind their absence is that they have been beating the bushes for that rare type of high school senior — the boy who has the grades to get into Davidson and can contribute to the football program at Davidson. One wonders why Davidson does not announce a rash of signings early in December as schools of the Southeastern Conference do. The competition between football-oriented schools such as Georgia and Georgia Tech would begin in junior high school if they didn’t put restrictions on themselves. Davidson doesn’t have to worry about that. For a coach to announce early in the year that a boy will attend on an athletic grant-in-aid implies that prospective athletes do not adhere to normal admissions procedure. But here at Davidson, football recruiting centers on making a boy want to go to Davidson. It doesn’t guarantee him admission, but only convinces him that high-pressure recruiting and widespread publicity are not part of the Davidson system.

COACH DAVE FAGG, known as one of the most loyal Davidson alumni anywhere, explained that recruiting starts with finding good students who have the potential of qualifying for admission to Davidson. There are some boys who entered the football files when they were high school freshmen. Once a prospect has been contacted, it is up to him to decide whether he is interested in proceeding to the next stage of recruiting: determining his ability. Game films supplied by high school coaches usually are the basis for deciding whether the football office will ascend to the next level: a visit to Davidson. NCAA rules allow one paid trip by a prospect to an individual institution and most of these are made in January and February. One might expect something like a fraternity hotbox when a high school senior is brought here, with the coaches slobbering all over the boys, showing which locker will be theirs, and generally telling him that he is sure to be All-American. But what is distinct about Davidson is that the Wildcat football players carry the ball themselves. “We've found that we’ve been successful with this system,” declared Fagg. “The young men here are as dedicated as we are. They are actually upset if they aren't involved in the recruiting process.”

EACH PROSPECT who is brought to Davidson for a weekend is acquainted with four basic aspects of school: the students, the coaching staff, the physical facilities, and the faculty. Fagg noted, “We've never had a boy here without having him talk to some professors and the Admissions Office. Our goal is to have one Davidson man to know any boy personally we are interested in, whether it be a student, alumni, or professor.” Because every boy must be admitted before his scholarship can be awarded, if one is involved, announcements usually don’t begin until early Spring. Just as for other students, an athlete does not commit himself by signing a grant-in-aid, but he does commit himself when he signs the National Letter of Intent which binds him to one school. The first day this letter may be signed this year is May 17.

FOUR COACHES cannot cover the nation but the small Davidson staff attempts to cover key areas. Fagg is in charge of North and South Carolina, Bob Brown works in Georgia, Florida, and Virginia, and Dick Short is operating around D.C., Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, and the Midwest, taking over a departed Dick Tomey’s responsibility with thus-far excellent results. Coach Smith, who is constantly on the road, “tries to have as much personal contact with every prospect both here and at their school and home,” Fagg explained. “He is devoting a great deal of personal time to build Davidson.”

This year’s recruiting has centered around big interior linemen and fast running backs. Quarterbacks are always in demand, witnessed by the seven who played various positions this year. Because no names can be divulged, only numbers can be used so far in comparing this year to last, the first full recruiting year for the New Look. Fagg estimated about 8-10 boys “who have committed themselves pending admission.” This is approximately the same progress for a comparable time last year, he said. Among these are two boys from Maryland, signed by Short, who reports they could put Davidson on the national football map. Decisions will begin to occur more frequently in the next few weeks. As Fagg noted, high school juniors will begin to feel their importance in a few weeks because a school like Davidson can get ahead by simply contacting a boy before larger schools get the chance.

FOOTBALL AT DAVIDSON gets brighter every day because of the dedication of those associated with it. Hopefully, football will not experience a year as disastrous as Lefty Driesell did when he recruited prospects among the present college seniors. Contacts will grow and Davidson's image, carried throughout the South and East by men like Homer Smith and Dave Fagg, couldn’t be in better hands.

RICHMOND TUESDAY

By SAM BELL Sports Writer

The off-and-on Davidson Wildcats will try to even their season record tomorrow night against a powerful St. Joseph’s team in Charlotte Coliseum. After this intersectional tilt, the ‘Cats return to Southern Conference warfare against Richmond in Johnston Gym Tuesday night. The Hawks from Philadelphia are led by their All-America center Cliff Anderson. Ranking among the top five scorers in the nation, Anderson has been the big gun in St. Joe’s fast-moving offense that has shot down such formidable opponents as Brigham Young, Georgetown, and St. Francis. They dumped Xavier, 81-80, Wednesday night. “St. Joseph has a real good team,” said Coach Lefty Driesell. “They have a 12-5 record and have beaten some real good teams. Two of their losses were to St. John’s and Providence in very close games.” The Hawks are not very big as compared to most college teams with Anderson being 6’-5” and both forwards only 6’-4”. However, Assistant Coach Gale Catlett commented, “Both Anderson and Albert Grundy are very strong and can really jump.” “Typical of past Jack Ramsey teams,” continued Catlett, “they press a lot and change their defenses. On offense, they like to get Anderson isolated one-on-one. They try to compensate for their lack of size with speed and quickness on both offense and defense.”

Richmond is probably the best team to come to Johnston Gym in several years. The Spiders pose a definite threat to Davidson's 37-game winning streak which dates back to the ‘Cats’ loss to VMI in the 1961-1962 season. As of last weekend, Richmond was in third place in the conference. This game is probably the most important conference clash the ‘Cats have left during the final drive to the Southern Conference tournament March 2-4. The ‘Cats will attempt to avenge their earlier loss this season to the Spiders. Driesell stated, “It will be a real tough game, but we are really looking forward to it.”

Davidsonian Sports PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 3, 1967

FEW BRIGHT SPOTS

Splashers Remain Winless

By BOB STUBBS Sports Writer

The winless (0-4) Wildcat mermen traveled to Virginia only to receive convincing defeats from Roanoke College and Virginia on Jan. 13 and 14. Roanoke had little trouble in disposing of the outmanned ‘Cats, 63-31. In one of the few bright spots of the meet, the 400-yard medley relay team beat Roanoke in 4:20.9. Steve Barden was the leading point man for Davidson. He was first in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 2:36.4, second in the 160-yard individual medley, and paced the victorious 400-yard relay team. Roanoke swept every other event, but the ‘Cats’ Joe Friebele took second in the 200-yard backstroke and John Helm was third in the 60-yard freestyle. The next meet was the same story, asVirginia trounced the mermen, 74-28. Barden was again the leading point man with a first in the 200-yard breaststroke, timed at 2:42.7, and a runner-up spot in the 200-yard butterfly. Helm got the only other first place for the Wildcats with a :55.6 in the 100-yard freestyle. Bobby Vagt gave the ‘Cats six points with second-place finishes in the 200 and 500-yard freestyle. Friebele also had two second places to his credit. One came in the 200-yard individual medley and the other in the 200-yard backstroke. “We sorely missed Eddie Beach, who was our best man in the butterfly and individual medley. Illness prevented his making the trip,” said Coach Tom Stevens. “Already we were outnumbered and his absence didn’t help any.”

Tuesday the mermen will journey to Clemson to take on the Tigers. Stevens said, “Last year we beat them, but because so many boys chose not to go out this year we will more than likely lose again. Clemson will have too much overall depth for us. Right now we have six boys in 12 events.” The ‘Cats finish out next week in Atlanta with back-to-back meets against powers Georgia Tech and Emory.

Hawks Invade Tonight

Richmond is led by All-Conference guard Johnny Moates and lanky 6'8" forward Tom Green. “Moates all but beat us by himself,” commented Driesell. “We'll have to do something to contain him.” Catlett added, “They played an outstanding game against us there but it will be a different story in Johnston Gym. We are ready for them.” Ready to defend the ‘Cats’ five-year home winning streak will be guards Wayne Huckel and Dave Moser, forwards Tom Youngdale and Mike O'Neill, and center Rod Knowles. Egging the starting guns will be subs Rocky Crosswhite, Bob Pickens, Mike Dickens, and Tony Orsbon. Noticeably absent from the roster will be forward Scott Sinnock, who transferred to Colorado near the end of last semester.

To No Avail

‘Cats Drop To 8-9 Record With Wake, WVU Losses

By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

The rallies were either not long enough or not strong enough for the Wildcat basketballers this week, as they succumbed to Wake Forest, 88-74, Saturday at Greensboro and at West Virginia on Wednesday, 85-83 to go to 8-9 on the year. Despite all that Mike O'Neill could do, sudden scoring sprees by both opponents doomed the ‘Cats to go under the .500 mark and give West Virginia a clear shot at the conference regular-season crown.

In the Deacon game, the ‘Cats showed the effects of the exam layoff, finding themselves eight points down before finally lighting the board. And with O’Neill hitting from the outside, the Wildcats brought the game back to reality, eventually trailing only 35-33 at the half. Paul Long, however, had gotten only eight points in the first half. So he proceeded to can 17 in the second, and when Long did not score, Dave Stroupe and Jim Boshart did. After again going behind by eight, the ‘Cats put on one of their rallies and actually went ahead, 46-45, on Tom Youngdale’s three-pointer. But Long took over, and the middle of the second half was all the Deacon's.

O'Neill led the Davidson scoring with 22 points, followed by Rod Knowles' 21 tallies and a game-high 13 rebounds. But these figures could not counteract the ‘Cats’ pathetic shooting—36.1 per cent—and the fine marksmanship and hustle of the Deacs, who hit for 53.3 per cent.

The story was a little different in Morgantown but the hero was the same. The ‘Cats jockeyed with the Mountaineers for most of the first half before trailing, 48-40, after Ron Williams' last-second 25-footer. O'Neill contributed 16 of his 28 points in the first half, contrary to his earlier performance against the Mounties, in which he scored most of his 28 points in the second half. And as in the double-overtime thriller in Charlotte, O'Neill held WVU's leading scorer, Dave Reaser, almost completely in check, limiting him to three for 11 from the floor and a grand total of seven points.

Poor board play in the opening minutes contributed openly to many of the points West Virginia racked up, including two early tap-ins by Bob Benfield. Youngdale’s hot hand in the early stages kept the ‘Cats close as he scored eight of the ‘Cats’ first 22. And the Wildcats found themselves tied 20-all with 10:25 to go, despite the exuberant fans. But the rally halted, and a Wildcat chilly spell enabled WVU to retain a six-point lead, which they carried to eight at intermission.

Once again the ‘Cats put on a rally, but before one knew it, what was down to five points shot up to an unbelievable 16-point West Virginia lead and the ball game seemed to be over. But the ‘Cats decided to give the villagers a little bit of a scare and almost ended up by pulling one of the greatest comebacks in the history of Davidson basketball. It had gone from 83-69 to 85-83 when, in about two minutes as time ran out, Dave Moser was called for fouling Norman Holmes in a little action which might have gone either way. In any case, when the whistle blew and the “Morgantownies” in the stands deciphered the call, that collective sigh you heard was not your imagination.

A DEADLY SHADOW ON OUR SOUTHERN FORESTS

What follows the shadow of the woods arsonists in the South? Danger, destruction, and desolation! Danger to nearby homes and families. Destruction of multi-million dollar forest resources. Desolation of your area’s richest source of beauty and recreation. Do your part to free Southern woodlands from the shadow of the malicious burner. Take action against arson by arousing strong public opinion against it... by reporting any evidence of it to your local authorities... by supporting strict law enforcement.

REMEMBER: EVERY TIME A FOREST FIRE STRIKES, YOU GET BURNED.