Page Six

Debate Season Opens

Davidson's varsity debate squad is beginning its tournament season this weekend at The Berkeley Forum at Emory University in Atlanta.
Sophomores Mac Hobby and Robert Pyeatt are representing Davidson. They will debate the proposition, “Resolved: the Federal Government should guarantee
a minimum annual cash income to all its citizens.”

“The Emory tournament is probably the best debate tournament in the South,” said Fletcher Hartsell, president of the Forensic Council.
“Most of the good teams in the country will be there.” Over 100 schools were expected to enter teams.

The tournament began yesterday and the two opening rounds were held last night. There were to be four rounds today
and the final two rounds tomorrow morning. Hobby and Pyeatt will debate both affirmatively and negatively on the proposition.

Last weekend competition began in the novice division at the Wake Forest Novice Tournament. Freshmen Gray Mason and Joe Smith
debated affirmatively and freshmen Windy March and Jule Young constituted the negative team. Both teams won two rounds and lost
four.

November 3, 1967
The Davidsonian

TENNIS CLUBHOUSE GOING UP

The foundation being laid by workmen on a one-story, $25,000 facility will house locker rooms for the tennis team and
faculty. (Staff Photo by Weems) The site below Johnston Gym is the beginning of a new tennis clubhouse, the gift
of Robert L. Stowe Jr. of Belmont. When completed, the

Chapel Duo Raps Sunday

New Equipment Improves College Laundry Service

By RICHARD COWART
Staff Writer

The improved service in the College Laundry this year is due to a unique system of operation, utilizing newly installed,
modern equipment. C. W. Stacks, manager of the laundry, said, “This is the only operation of its kind.” Stacks also
pointed out that laundry here gives much better service than laundries at most other colleges. “We're the only school that
I've heard of without any restrictions on the students’ use of the laundry,” he said.

The new equipment in the laundry was installed during a two-week period last summer. The most important additions to the
laundry are two shirt pressers which are more efficient. Shirts this year are returned to the student on hangers instead
of being folded, as in previous years. “We've received many

School, Is Criticized In Turn By Professor

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

Sunday School amounts to “nothing more than brainwashing at times,” said Dr. Kendig B. Cully, dean of New York Theological
Seminary.

Jordan Attacks N. C. Democrats

“I ran because the political situation in Asheville infuriated me,” State Representative Dave Jordan told the Davidson Young Republican Club
Wednesday night. Terming the local Democratic organization in Asheville “very corrupt and very graft-taken,” Jordan went on to attack the
Democratic state organization. He contrasted the “patriarchal” political system of the Democratic party with the possibility for advancement for people
of all ages and backgrounds in the Republican Party.

Hitting “the East-West Democratic coalition which controls the legislature,” Jordan said that the legislation resulting has been so detrimental that
“the concept of state government (in North Carolina) is anti-business,” especially in the Piedmont area. Jordan said that the 26
Republicans in the state House of Representatives had been unusually effective, and credited this to the discipline of the party
members and to the start of inroads into traditionally strong Democratic areas in the West. Help from the news media
and a breakdown of Democratic discipline were also credited with Republican successes.

Among his party's successes in the last session Jordan cited several bills changing “the ancient and cruel laws” on epilepsy,
which among other things set sterilization as a precondition to marriage for any epileptic. Jordan also pointed to the new
epilepsy laws as the first bills passed under Republican sponsorship since 1901.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
HEYWARD CARTER
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ED EMBREE
ROBBIE HOOKER

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
BOB REID

Assistant Sports Editors:
DON SEWELL
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Contributors this week:
John Pancake, Mark Wingate, Dick Anderson, Ben Garrett, Lewis Lavine, Biff Fine, John Bolinger, Athley Kline, Jim Hudson, Richard Cowart,
Bobby Ambrose, Don Hoyt, Chuck Green, John Williams, Jim Gillespie, James Lee, Danny Coltrane, George Allen, Greg Scott, Bill Warren,
Paul Schneider, Reb Krehbiel, Bill Spencer, Jim Roland, Doug Haynes and Rocky Crosswhite.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photograph Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
KEATON FONVIELLE
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
BURKEY BELSER
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS
MIKE SIGMAN

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:

in a chapel program yesterday that one professor called “the worst since I've been here.” Speaking with his wife, who
echoed his opinions, Cully went on to criticize the way Sunday School products “learned some things much too well and
others not at all.” Their theology, Cully said, was “learned too well in a limited perspective.”

Campus Comment

AHMED GOTTFRIED
SCHMICKLE

Notice Drawn By Peace Vigils

A group of Davidson students observed a peace vigil to protest the war in Vietnam Wednesday. They gathered in front
of the college during chapel period. This was the second vigil, and there are plans to have one every Wednesday
during chapel period. Their purpose is to givean opportunity for concerned individuals to express their disapproval of the government’s present
Vietnam policy. The following students were asked, “Do you think the peace vigils will accomplish anything?”

Naim Ahmed, Richardson Scholar: “The ultimate decisions about the war are made in the White House, not the Davidson College
playing fields. Therefore, the peace vigils here are a mere exercise in futility.”

Robin Gottfried, sophomore: “I don’t think it is going to accomplish that much for the simple reason that most of
the students won’t really pay attention to what is going on.”

Bill Schmickle, senior: “Campuses all over the nation are alive with issues: Davidson isn’t. If students and faculty are both
challenged to participate in this form of discussion it may, hopefully, lead to further beneficent polemics.”

Their church history he termed “encrusted in creeds... and taken very literally.” The chapel program drew caustic words from the
critical professor. “Although I do not agree with the whistling and newspaper reading and sleeping in chapel,” he said, “I
was sorely tempted to do so myself.”

In his talk, Cully portrayed the Sunday School as irrelevant. Sunday School art he criticized as “the gentle Jesus kind
of picture which does not speak to the present age.” In moral areas, the church was criticized as being overly
successful in teaching personal piety and unable to deal with a changing culture because of the irrelevance of personal piety.

Mrs. Cully continued the criticism by saying the Bible is still a closed book, a situation which is seen in
the constantly changing fads that emphasize first one aspect of the Bible and then another. The themes of the fads
change and never reflect more than a partial understanding. Mrs. Cully also criticized Sunday Schools for “giving answers to unasked
questions.” “Sunday School never learned how to deal with doubt and skepticism,” she said. “The time must come when one
appropriates the faith for himself.”

She called for a church drama without an outright evangelical motivation, but one that speaks to man’s condition in his
life now. In the last two minutes, the floor was opened for questions from students, but there were none.

First Drama Production Opens Run Wednesday

Darkness at Noon, the prize-winning novel by Arthur Koestler adapted for the stage by Sidney Kingsley, is the opening production
of the Davidson College Drama Department this season. The play concerns a Soviet Commissar imprisoned during the bloody purges of
the late 1930s in Russia. Hodson Hall in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building will be the site of the performance
next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday at 8:15 pm. Reservations may be made by calling the Davidson College Drama Department between
2 pm and 5 pm next week. A limited number of seats will be sold at the door each night.

The play, winner of the New York Drama Critics Award, tells the story of N. S. Rubashov, a Soviet commissar
of considerable power who is imprisoned for having opposed the party’s work through “counter-revolutionary tactics.” His torment and frustration in
his prison lead to pathos and intense self-examination. As scenes from the past and present are intermingled throughout the play,
a multi-leveled set is used to keep the action flowing smoothly.

JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Stacks said, “We have received many compliments on our new method of finishing shirts.” Other new equipment includes a monorail
system which carries laundry from the sorters to the washers, and from the washers to the dryers. In addition, the
dryers themselves are new, as are the automatically rotating shirt racks for hanging finished shirts until they are claimed by
the student.

According to Stacks, the new equipment has produced “very little change” in the cost of operating the laundry. The machinery
has, however, offset higher labor costs by eliminating six previously necessary jobs. Stacks said he plans to continue adding new
equipment until he establishes a fully automated operation. The next proposed addition to the laundry will be a conveyor belt
which will carry the students’ bundles to the sorters before washing. Presently, the bundles are placed in large carts which
are wheeled across the floor to the sorters.

Stacks was asked about the type of complaints that he has received from students this year. “Complaints?” he responded. “There
have been very few.” He explained that some students have complained about the wrinkled clothes, especially pants, which are returned
wrapped in the student’s bundles. He added that the student body seems to be unaware that these articles will be
pressed free of charge upon request when a student picks up his laundry. “All a student has to do is
remove from his bundle any pants he wants pressed,” Stacks said, “and we will press them for him and put
them on a hanger with his shirts.”

JACKSON CLEANERS
Where You Get “QUICK SERVICE and the Neatest Cleaning and Pressing
SHIRT LAUNDRY SERVICE
DEPOT STREET

Being in the right isn’t enough. Watch out for the other guy! Never put yourself at the mercy of another
driver by following him too closely. Warn him off with your horn or lights. And slow down. Protect yourself! Stay
back one car length for every 10 mph of speed. Published to save lives in cooperation with The Advertising Council
and the National Safety Council.
