Che Davidsonian NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY Published weekly by the students of Davidson College
during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief PAGE TWO BILL WATSON Business Manager FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1967 The Circle Of Diversity Davidson seems to be caught
in one of those circles that often plague anyone trying to progress. This time that circle has appeared in admissions
policies. There are some students here who do not come from the traditional southeastern mold for ‘Davidson Gentlemen.’ In fact,
the number seems to increase each year as the college’s academic reputation becomes more widely known, with the result that
high school guidance counselors will give the school a good word if a student requests information. Supposedly students of high
caliber are asking such questions on occasion. Otherwise, the effort expended by the Admissions Office in sending publicity to all
male National Merit and National Achievement scholars is entirely wasted. Perhaps a few such award winners do note the Davidson
folder and form letter among the large amount of such propaganda that they receive. It is also true that a
few freshmen each year from outside the South will point to sports publicity as their first contact with the school.
(Far be it from us to wonder about the academic reputation of a school more widely known among sports page
readers than Merit Scholars.) The stated policy of the Admissions Office is to seek the best students for the college,
regardless of their background. The reasoning behind this policy would seem to be that the school will be strong as
long as it has good students, even if most of them do share an identical southern white Anglo-Saxon Protestant culture.
The circular process becomes evident when students who do come to Davidson from different backgrounds find life here to be
particularly unpleasant for them. While this is not as apparent in cases where geography is the only source of difference,
it is obvious when a student's racial heritage differs from the Davidson norm. It is probable that the make-up of
the student body is always going to be such that a Negro will find himself in the minority. While the
local standard of two Negroes per class hardly reflects the overall American racial distribution, blacks still are obviously a minority
group within the total population. The difficulties encountered by a minority group when it is practically the only real minority
group within a society are typified by the fact that neither one of the two original Negro members of the
Class of ‘69 will be returning to Davidson next year. While personal factors are undoubtedly of great importance in each
case, it is hard to believe the abnormal role of the Negro at Davidson had no effect. This is not
an editorial stand about the rights of Negroes. Instead, it is an appeal to the Admissions Office to actively seek
diversity of background in each class. The problems of any one different element in the student body will not be
eliminated by doing away with that element. The solution instead lies in creating a society which reflects the diversity of
a broader spectrum than that which is found in the southern WASP. It is of prime importance to realize that
diversity is more than just a way to improve the existence of a few people. The reason that the Admissions
Office should not just be content with any good student who cannot contribute to a broader campus society is that
the college actually needs such diversity in order to become an active campus intellectually. One argument used in the athletic
report presented to the faculty this week in support of continued subsidization claimed that professional athletes prevent the stereotyping of
the college into an academic mold. It hardly seems that there is any “danger” of Davidson becoming too intellectual at
the moment. On the other hand, it is interesting to note that even those trustees in their own twisted way
seem to realize the virtue of diversity more than does the Admissions Office. A Cleansing Role Strong endorsement of student
participation in the southern labor union movement was given in an editorial from the Daily Tar Heel reprinted in this
column last week. Basically two reasons existed for that reprint: It showed that there are more than just the dozen
Davidson activists concerned with the issue, and the UNC-CH editor's position seemed to be soundly taken. While we could probably
wind up disputing the devotion to labor unions implied by that editorial writer, we have to agree with his contention
that a strong union movement is needed to bring the South into the twentieth century. It is hard to picture
the leaders of the southern textile industry as a bunch of diabolical ogres who sit around plotting about the ways
that they can mishandle unskilled labor. It is quite probable that these same men consider themselves to be virtuous charitable
people being cruelly victimized by trouble-makers. It is this self-image enjoyed by mill operators that points up the need for
students to be involved in the union movement. The obvious corruption and abuse of members which has characterized much of
the union establishment casts doubt on the contention that the end of student union participation should be complete unionization of
southern workers. Instead, the importance of the current labor unrest is that it demonstrates to textile executives that their treatment
of southern labor has not been as virtuous as they would like to believe. The eventual solution to the problem
will necessarily come around the conference table, but the past history of southern management labor relations indicates that something more
than correspondence and local discussions will be necessary to convince management of the intensity and rightness of many labor claims.
The student role in this issue is of very great importance. The usual valid warnings to students to handle themselves
in a mature manner must still be given. If word-of-mouth information is to be believed, one of the students arrested
in Greensboro last week was nabbed, not for preaching idealism, but for screaming obscenities at the arresting deputy. Such an
approach is more characteristic of intoxicated pre-Spring Frolics immaturity than of responsible concern. In fact, it tends to negate the
unique importance of student participation in the union's protest. The somewhat detached student viewpoint combined with the natural idealism of
college people may be the factors which could prevent the abuse of the labor movement which has occurred in other
parts of the country. Public Relations Needed One of the aims in initiating the “One Last Shot” column on this
page was to demonstrate the lack of meaningful communication which comes from the administration of the college to the average
student. The sincerity of the people who have been asked to write these columns is respected by THE DAVIDSONIAN. Therefore,
some of the less than just charges which have been made confirm this belief in the lack of communication. To
a certain large degree, members of the administration are willing to talk over their work and their aims with students
who are concerned enough to find out what is going on in that part of the college. The hang-up comes,
however, in the fact that much of the popular opinion among the student body is based upon appearance instead of
fact. Consequently, incorrect impressions tend to be self-perpetuating until they are shown to be false by THE DAVIDSONIAN or by
an active concern within the administration to correct them. The latter means seems to be largely without use, and it
tends to hinder the performance of the former. The administration does respect the value of much of the student leadership,
but it seems to be untrusting of the contributions that could be made by the student without an office if
he has a true picture of a situation. Therefore, instead of seeking to inform that student, the administration largely seeks
to avoid controversy on an issue or project until the administration position is already determined. Valid complaints are made on
occasion about some sense of apathy among the mass of students. It would seem that with regard to some issues
at least this apathy is encouraged by rather secretive policies on the part of the administration. Library Site - A
Dilemma BUT THEN, WHERE COULD YOU FIND A PLACE WITH NO ANTS, ANYWAY — ‘Fly-Trap’ Library Needs More Art, Science
Books It has been suggested that there are many conditions on the Davidson campus which could stand a little improving.
Among those which chiefly concern those of us who are interested in the arts, and which also vitally concerns every
other student is the lack of depth in the library. There are relatively few books on certain aspects of music,
art, and a definite lack in fiction. But as well, there are lacking many volumes in the social, and applied
sciences and in philosophy. Also, for researchers, there is practically no depth in back issues of periodicals and newspapers. If
the administration is for real, and Davidson is indeed entering into a “decade of decision” in more respects than alumni
deciding how large of a check to give us, an expanded library is needed to foster creative work in all
fields of endeavor, which is essential if we are going to actually try to compete with the “better” institutions. Trying
not to let this column deteriorate into my private gripe-sheet, I would like to put forth a suggestion for some
direct action that could be taken by the students in helping to stimulate a small step in the direction of
making Davidson a better academic community. What I would like to suggest is that every student either buy a book
for the library that he considers worthwhile and which is missing from it, or that he donate some book in
his possession also absent in that fly trap. Since the purchasing of a hardback book might put a strain on
the finances of some students, perhaps either the Union or the Library could begin a paperback exchange. Somehow it impresses
me as being almost criminal when the janitors in their morning cursory sweepings manage to eliminate some discarded tome into
their black bags of trash. Perhaps if the students show concern, somewhere the purse strings will be opened. ONE LAST
SHOT — ‘For Negroes, Davidson Termed Both Bad, Good’ ED. NOTE: “One Shot” is written by seniors who are not
returning to Davidson next year in order to allow them to express their opinions about the college. By LEON PERRY
What do I think of Davidson? Good question! There is no precise answer, no totally truthful answer, and to be
expedient, no simple answer. Davidson College is complex, so am I. In answering this question you as reader and I
as author must realize that I cannot answer just as a Davidson College student, but I must answer as a
Black Davidson College student. Why? Another question just as complex asThe first. I'll just say that as a Token Black
I cannot answer objectively because of that fact. Davidson has been good for and to me in both positive and
negative ways. It has also been quite awful. As I leave Davidson, what can I say good about it? Well,
positively, Davidson College has almost totally financed my first two years of college; it has given me certain opportunities that
I certainly would not have been given had I gone to a Black school or to no school at all;
it has given me the opportunity to be a part of an institution which, for that reason, in later years
will no doubt thrust me into the higher echelon of “society,” and with that, economic security. It has given me
the opportunity to meet and intimately acquaint myself with the White man. In the negative vein: Davidson College has also
done good things for and to me. It has made me acutely aware (some of my friends say paranoid) of
my blackness; it has made me aware that I am first of all an individual who needs an open mind
and mouth; it has also molded me into a fervent champion of “Black Power.” Davidson College has also been bad
for and to me. It has shown me that racism is certainly not limited to “Red Necks” and “Klansmen” but
to supposedly enlightened intellectuals as well. It has molded me into an introverted, irresponsible questioner who trusts no one, which
I think is bad. Well, what then do I think of Davidson College? I think that, although a fine school
academically, it is guilty, as are other colleges throughout the nation, of gross negligence of human minds and feelings. It
is a purveyor of establishment thinking. It is guilty of the wholesale moral slaughter of a section of this town
(the Black community). It is guilty of closed-mindedness, autocratic views, and misuse of power. It is guilty of an intense
preoccupation with public relations and the good old Davidson College image, thus seemingly displacing the student as the most important
part of the school. As a Black student at Davidson, I can say all these things are true. Look at
the student body here: how many students are willing to speak out on controversial issues for fear of reprisals by
the school? Look at the Black community across the tracks: how many of you, as Davidson students, have actively participated
in some act to help these people? True, you go down and paint the churches and clean off the little
league field (incidentally, one which was built because Black kids are not allowed to play on the White baseball field).
But have you asked yourself why, when an organization on the Davidson College campus attempts to recruit and encourage Black
people to seek positions on the town governing agencies, it is stymied, not because of educational deficiencies or the like,
but because of fear of reprisals by the Davidson College community? In summary, Davidson College has been a booster in
helping me mature morally and mentally, and although a fine—even outstanding—academic school, as an institution it has failed miserably and
pitifully in the areas in basic human relations which concern me most—and they should you, being humans and individuals. We,
as students, are not machines and we should not be coerced by this institution into becoming what we as individuals
do not want to become. Davidson College is guilty of this. The general consensus seems to be that the man
who graduates from Davidson College should be this or that, some stereotyped fool with variations, and if the student does
not want to be this, if he does not like it, he should get out, to quote a member of
the Davidson College administration, or the student should not have entered the school in the first place. Thus I leave
Davidson College with mixed feelings and emotions, on the one hand a hatred and pity for this place, on the
other admiration and gratitude, and on the whole still the unanswered question: What do I think of Davidson College?

By EDWARD DWELLS
Associate Editor

Fools’ Names And Truth Or Consequences

This past week I received a letter in response to my column of April 28, 1967 (“Will The Future Be
Like The Past?”) from the father of a Davidson College senior. In the letter, the father asked three very specific
questions to which he would like to have a response: “What are the youth in colleges rebelling about, as opposed
to the Civil Rights movement? “Don't you feel that this same group has some responsibilities? “Don’t you feel that, instead
of continuously protesting, without answers, they should have more consideration for those with whom they associated in school and at
home?” It was very kind of this father to write, and I appreciate his taking the time to do so.
His questions are sincere and are those of a concerned individual attempting to come to grips with the world about
him. I should like to answer them. And I wish I were able to answer them in a way that
would soothe this man’s worries, for I think these are the type of questions which most parents have of today’s
youth. But I am unable to give a soothing answer to any of them, nor am I able to give
a single response. There are various answers, and they raise many more questions. I am told that the point at
which one stops asking questions is when one has found the “truth” and is satisfied. But I am rarely satisfied,
and I do not think that today’s youth will stop questioning the status quo soon. Let me attempt some response
to these questions: I understand the first question to be asking how the rebellion of college students differs from the
Civil Rights movement. Well, they are both alike and different. They are alike in that college students frequently participate in
furthering the cause of Civil Rights: Both groups reject and rebel against the institution of segregation and the degradation of
one human being by another because of race. They are also basically alike in that both groups are attempting to
create a society which is more humane than our present one and to create institutions which are both workable and
applicable to an ever-changing technological society. Both groups do not seem to think that the existing structures are adequate to
the task. Obviously the two groups are different in that the Civil Rights movement is concerned with individuals who also
happen to be Negro while the college students' concern primarily has grown out of their situation as individuals who are
subjected to the in loco parentis principle of most institutions of higher learning. Since the college students represent a wider
variety of interests, they may be active in more areas; but both groups question many other outworn institutions because of
the particular one they find themselves subject to. In response to the second question, I can only say—yes, college students
have many responsibilities. And their principal responsibility is to be involved in and concerned with the society in which they
live. They should not merely accept the status quo without being sure that it is the best that can be
achieved. They should not attempt to change or destroy existing institutions merely for the sake of change but rather because
the institutions do not work and can be improved or replaced by more workable ones. They must commit themselves to
improving their society, for ultimately they will be held responsible by their children and their children's children. I do not
really understand the third question, but let me assume that it can be restated as follows: Since the college students
don’t seem to be getting answers to their protesting questions, shouldn't they shut up and quit bothering their fellow students
and their parents and other adults? My answer is an emphatic NO! Essentially, I have responded to this question in
replying to the two above. But let me reiterate. The most inconsiderate action which the students could take toward their
fellows and their parents would be to quit bothering them, for that would mean that they do not care about
them and their welfare. I think that these college students are more concerned with the welfare of their fellow man
than any other group that I know about in the history of mankind. Perhaps we are moving toward a true
understanding and a true attainment of a community of mankind, of the world. In ending his letter this father writes,
“Somewhere there has been a tremendous generational gap for understanding, and I hope your answers will close this to some
degree.” Well, I have attempted, in one way, to answer his specific questions. But I would also like to use
his statement, quoted above, to make some remarks about the present status of Davidson College. In this my last column
I had planned to make some positive remarks about the college, to say what I think is “good” about Davidson.
I have been principally critical—although I hope constructively so—of the college this year. But I have also said that I
love this college and believe strongly in its potential to be a great institution; essentially, I support the purpose of
the college and its commitment to maintain its Christian character. Of course, the problem arises in the interpretation of how
to apply that purpose and how to maintain that Christian character. And as I try to formulate some positive remarks
I always reach an impasse because I am not satisfied enough to quit being concerned about any particular aspect: The
library has improved, but... the warmth of the college community is gratifying, but... the faculty constitution is a step forward,
but... I find that my attachment to the college is almost entirely emotional: the beauty of the grounds and the
pleasantness of the Piedmont area of North Carolina. And, principally, it is the people whom one gets to know and
admire that make one’s college experience worthwhile. This is the great strength of Davidson College. Perhaps that is all that
matters. But this more personal element cannot be separated from the objective situation of the college and certainly does not
negate my criticisms of it: I probably would never be satisfied with the degree of improvement which the college makes
because I would always want more from it. Perhaps this is part of the human predicament. I have attempted to
decrease “the generational gap for understanding” in my columns this year by presenting my ideas as representative of my generation.
I am not sure that I have increased this understanding, but I have gained the confidence to know this much:
the elders must recognize and accept the contemporary “truths” of my generation or face the consequences of increasing and continuing
generational conflict.
