Page Six \ February 3, 1967 \ The Davidsonian

NOUVEAU RICHE DRESS
Prosperity Creates New Look Downtown

‘RUSTIC LOOK’ Downtown Stores Renovate

Improvements in store fronts facing Davidson's Main Street are becoming more frequent. The renovations are a result of increasing prosperity
in Davidson, according to Taylor Blackwell, owner of The Village Store. Blackwell attributes the increased prosperity to the increase in
the college's enrollment from 600 to 1000 and the increased college payroll. He also cited new industry moving into the
area as a cause.

The first to remodel was the bank, according to James V. Lore, president of the bank. After the bank, The
Village Store remodeled, first the interior and then the exterior. During the last year, Rush Wilson, The Mecklenburg Gazette, Jim
Stone’s insurance office, and Dr. Claude H. McConnell’s office were all updated. Sherrill and Stone divided a former model car
raceway and added a rustic front, which Stone described as typical of “a quaint little college town.” The same style
of front was installed by Rush Wilson, and the Parks Rexall drug store plans a similar rustic awning as a
replacement for a cloth awning that was knifed by vandals last Sunday night.

Blackwell said that he was “pleased in the response to the improvements at the Village Store. It has definitely resulted
in increasing sales.” Stone stated that the improvements were not part of a formal program but rather “just an idea
that caught on.”

(Staff Photo by Olson)

VIEW FROM THREE BLOCKS AWAY
Davidson Students Criticized By Outsider

There is no organization or Soviet Representative To Be Here 3 Days

Dr. Alexi Stepunin, first secretary of the cultural division of the Soviet Embassy in Washington, will visit Davidson for three
days next week. Stepunin’s topic will be the Russian Revolution of 1917. He will introduce his subject in chapel Wednesday.
Immediately after chapel, he will address the third period Humanities 22 class. This lecture, which will be chiefly concerned with
Lenin and his part in the revolution, is open to all interested persons. At 3 p.m., he will lead a
discussion in the Union Lounge. Thursday, he will speak to an economics class and a seminar in Russian history. His
main address will be Thursday at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Junior Steve Humphrey, who was instrumental in bringing Stepunin
to the campus, said, “This should be a very interesting address. He will discuss the Russian Revolution in detail—the type
of revolution it was—and the degree to which the Russians feel it can be used as a model for revolutions
in other countries.” Stepunin’s closing address will be in chapel Friday morning.

Lowder Notes Apathy, Student Discrimination
By JOE JONES
Staff Writer

Paul Lowder of the Davidson Methodist Church challenged Rev. Lowder in chapel Tuesday. “You are the only ones who can
really do much about it. I wonder if it's not about time that we get on it,” he remarked, addressing
student gripes about ministers and expressing his agreement with them.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, EDWARD DWELLE
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Photography Editor: BILL OLSON
Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE
Photographers: BOB TRAVERS, DON CARROLL
Assistant Managing Editors: DAVID WEEMS, CHARLES McEWEN
Cartoonists: KERN PARKER, LOU HILL
Sports Editor: TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID
News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Bob Dunham, Marvin Ellison, Robert Pyeatt, Jim Cooley, Joe Jones, Allan Lewis, John Barber, Ken Cool, Kenneth
Hamilton, Johnny Rowe, John Williams, Franklin Anderson, Gary Sigmon, Chuck Green, Carter Fussell, Lewis Lavine, Danny Coltrane, George Cretekos, Marvin
Bethune, Sam Bell, Charlie Elliott, and Bob Stubbs.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

Lowder turned the tables and expressed dissatisfaction with college students. Good signs such as the tutorial program and the growth
of student maturity, Lowder continued, did not concern him at the moment. Making three observations in a “view from three
blocks away,” he outlined what does concern him.him at the present time. “Students do not feel that they are living
life here on the Davidson campus,” he said, “but they see it merely as a necessary stage between adolescence and
adulthood. The answer will require that we come to terms with ourselves and the persons and events around us.

“The degree of discrimination on this campus bothers me,” he said. “It is not racial prejudice, but the prejudice of
the cool which results in marked divisions in campus society. Those who need a fraternity bid most,” he commented, “are
the least likely to get it." There should be freer association, but “not as one who is ‘in’ going to
see one who is ‘out’.” Finally, Lowder criticized the divorce between religion and emotion. Pointing to art, he noted that
the purely intellectual without the emotional can never be genuine art and said that the same was true of religion.

By CARTER FUSSELL
Staff Writer

Philip B. Secor, associate professor of the political science department since 1963, has submitted his resignation, effective at the end
of the present academic year, to accept appointment as Dean of the College of Muhlenburg College, Allentown, Pa. Secor emphasized
that he felt no dissatisfaction with Davidson and is leaving only because of the good promotion. He explained that Dean
of the College of Muhlenburg is a combination of the duties of a dean of faculty and extra promotion. “I
shall have a responsibility to assist in faculty recruitment and in curriculum planning,” Secor explained. “I hope to be able
to teach as I enjoy it greatly and will miss it if I have to give it up, but that
will depend on the needs of their political science department. I would particularly like to maintain my interest in contemporary
political theory and the Soviet Union.”

(Staff Photo by Olson)

“Dr. Secor has been a very stimulating and helpful member of the Davidson faculty,” commented Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of
the faculty. “He has stimulated among Davidson students much interest in local and national politics and in the political problems
of our age.” Secor said he has enjoyed his association with Davidson. “It has been a pleasant experience and I
am grateful to the students I have known. I am also grateful to the college which has been very generous
to me in allowing summer research and my travel to the Soviet Union.” Johnston said, “Secor has been a valuable
member of both the political science and humanities departments. He will be hard to replace. We are in touch with
several men and expect to have a replacement by next year.”

Secor Resigns To Take College Dean Position

In 1965 he spent the summer studying and traveling in Russia, from which experiences have come a number of magazine
and newspaper articles. He is currently working on a book, The Appeals of Soviet Communism. Thought has been given to
increasing the size of the political science department and this will be done, but not for next year.

A native of Mt. Kisco, N. Y., Secor took his undergraduate studies at Drew University, and his advanced studies at
Duke University, earning his doctorate in 1959. He taught at Duke for two years and spent four years at Dickinson
College in Pennsylvania before coming to Davidson. During his stay at Dickinson he served briefly as acting dean of the
college.

In 1965 he spent the summer studying and traveling in Russia, from which experiences have come a number of magazine
and newspaper articles. He is currently working on a book, The Appeals of Soviet Communism. Thought has been given to
increasing the size of the political science department and this will be done, but not for next year.

SHERRILLS JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

If you have tried other services and are not satisfied, give us a try. We do expert cleaning and pressing.
Quick Service Too!

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across From Gulf Station
Main St.

NCNB will be on campus February 8. Appointments may be arranged through the Placement Office.
