Che Dauidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Sam Boyte Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1967

No Solution

For offering some alternative to the local fraternity presidents’ social affiliation plan, the national fraternity officers who drew up the Estes Park resolution deserve some credit. At least they were being tactful. Instead of openly rejecting the possibility of improving the Greek situation here, they shrouded their rejection in a resolution that just fails to accomplish the same goals that the fraternity presidents were aiming for.

While the one-week eating privilege proposed by the nationals is certainly a much better rush technique than the usual party method, it does not answer the problem that the fraternity presidents tried to answer last year. While the nationals may be right in saying that the student plan aimed at formal membership for the rushee who did not originally receive a bid for brotherhood, they do not understand the importance of the social affiliate status that the locals were going to offer.

One wonders at the national fraternities’ refusal to recognize the status of the social affiliate. It almost seems that they fear more rushees would be interested in social affiliation than in brotherhood. While it is unlikely that the local fraternities would care to operate with most of their “members” being social affiliates instead of brothers, at least they are confident about their ability to persuade rushees to want brotherhood instead of affiliate status. It is hard to see why the nationals are so adamant in their objections to affiliation unless they themselves lack this confidence.

In fraternities that do not constitutionally recognize affiliate status, the prohibition is more honored in the breach than in the observance. A survey of individual chapters of one such fraternity last spring turned up dozens of affiliates. Once again it seems that the members’ local chapters have less to fear from associating with a non-brother than does the national office. One reason for this may be the fact that the local chapter knows more about the conditions prevailing at its school than does the national. Perhaps on the large university campus where fraternity membership seems to offer exceptional benefits, an affiliation plan might be disastrous. There the fraternity house offers a small group association that stands in comfortable contrast to the impersonal university campus. Perhaps it is this large campus orientation that prevents national offices from seeing the peculiar situation at a small college.

At the small college, the fraternity has something of a different purpose than at the large university. When the fraternity system includes as much of the college family as it does at Davidson, it has greater responsibilities for the welfare of the campus. At the same time, the system's present importance gives it strength to deal with the problems facing it and the college. It does not have to go into paranoid fits at the mention of change.

The Estes Park resolution points out something that some fraternity members had begun to see last year. At that time there was some talk about the way that the national office restricts the freedom of the local chapter to work constructively towards improving its own situation. Only one of the fraternities with Davidson chapters offers any real degree of local autonomy. The others cling to their locals like a mother that is afraid to see her son grow up.

It would be a terrible disappointment if Davidson and her Greeks are not allowed to find a real solution to the social system here. If the locals and the college can push on to solve the problem of the non-bid student who wishes to be a part of the fraternity system, perhaps they can also succeed in achieving some measure of freedom for the Greeks.

Good Job

Change always presents new problems. Davidson's attempt at computerization of its registration and record-keeping is no exception to this rule. But the listing of these problems should not be interpreted as a slap at Associate Dean of the Faculty and Registrar J. H. Ostwalt, the man who has led the change-over.

In past years the job of registrar was considered to be a full-time job. This year the task of aiding Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston was added. On top of that came the immense job of leading the expansion of computer use by the college. All of this has fallen into Ostwalt’s hands. The job that he has done proves that those hands are both tireless and capable.

Of Chins And Policy

Just because the chin of Rep. George Brown (D.-Cal.) bears a strong resemblance to President Johnson’s chin does not mean the rest of their heads are similar. Yesterday’s assembly speech gave ample proof of the fact that the thinking parts of their heads do not agree. Brown's stand against the war in Vietnam clashed directly with that of Johnson. The roar of applause that greeted Brown’s call for the U.S. to get out of the war indicates that there are a lot of Davidson students who do not agree with Johnson’s thinking either.

One wishes that Brown could have presented in the assembly some plan for accomplishing his goals. With so much of the U.S. population against the war, the issue of the means of withdrawal is almost more of a controversy than the argument over whether or not the war should continue. As has happened before in the U.S. attempt to stop communism, it has put itself in the position of supporting a harsh regime of thinly concealed dictatorship. The U.S. has come a long way in realizing that there are many different types of social evil on the domestic scene. However, this country lacks the same perception in world affairs. It seems that our policymakers are determined to believe that the only evil that matters in world affairs is that of communism. They have at least come to realize that they cannot lump all of their fears into the idea of a world communist plot, but they still do not seem to realize that there are some other threats in the world at least as bad as they imagine communism to be.

One of those evils is the manipulation of other countries. Certainly, it would be nice if there could be some source of order in the world, and the U.S. should contribute to the search for such order. But this country has no right to be the policeman of the world. While it may well offer the most progressive society to be found in the world, its record does not justify any sort of claim that it has all or even most of the answers to the world’s problems.

A directive commonly heard by Davidson ROTC students at summer camp is, “Even if you don’t know what you are doing, act as if you do.” That may be a good way for an army officer to give his men the confidence they need to get through a rough situation. It is not, however, a good way to run foreign policy if it leads the government to a belief in its own infallibility.

President Johnson might have been able to have a respectable term of office if he had not faced any sort of major problems during his time. He is probably no more incompetent than many other men who have held the Presidency. But he got stuck with an awfully bad time to be President, and he simply is not able to handle the Vietnam situation. The arguments that are mouthed to justify that very messy war sound more hollow every time they are repeated by the government. There are legitimate concerns that prevent the U.S. from burying its head in the sand or flitting off on an LSD trip of irresponsibility. The consideration of these factors prevents any simple call to pull out. Tragic consequences would result if the U.S. announced tomorrow, “O.K. fellows, forget it. Come on home.” The present regime would probably become even harsher. But the results of not seeking peace at every step of the march will be even more tragic. Although George Brown may not have the answer to the question of just how we should get out, an increased number of Congressmen who share his earnest desire for peace might be able to get the U.S. out of the mess into which it has stepped.

FROM PAKISTAN WITH LOVE

Pakistan Is Old, Young

By NAIM AHMED Richardson Scholar

Pakistan is an irony. Politically, it is one of the youngest nations. Historically, it is one of the most ancient lands known to man. When independence came in 1947, Hindus outnumbered the Muslims in the subcontinent by the ratio of five to one. Freedom from British rule for the Muslims would have been meaningless had they also not got freedom from a menacing Hindu majority. As harmony between them could not be achieved, the idea of a separate homeland for the Muslims was brought forward. This idea of Pakistan was opposed tooth and nail by the Hindus. But one people, believing that “life is not so sweet and peace so dear as to be purchased at the cost of chains of slavery,” made untold sacrifices and Pakistan (now a nation of 100 million) came into being on August 14, 1947. The areas where Muslims were in a majority were to form Pakistan and Hindu majority areas were to constitute India. Ours is a federation of two states - East and West Pakistan, divided by 1,000 miles of Indian territory. If India stops us from flying over their country (which they have been doing), it takes 7 hours in...a Boeing jet to go from West to East Pakistan — like flying from Paris to New York! But the only thing that unites Pakistanis is a common faith. The very reason for the country’s existence is devotion to Islam. Nevertheless, the missionaries of other religions are free to operate. From my childhood to my graduation, I have studied in Christian missionary schools. Thus Pakistan is an ideological nation; unique in the sense that it came into existence on the basis of a religion. Yet, non-Muslims can rise to high offices. One chief justice is a Christian. Poor as one country is, we have to spend more than 50 per cent of our GNP on defense due to the constant threat from India. The bone of contention is Kashmir—a valley of 3½ million people which is predominantly Muslim and thus should have gone to Pakistan on the principle of partition. The UN had decided that there will be a plebiscite in Kashmir and the people will be given their right of self-determination to say whether they wanted to join India or Pakistan. Yet, India now refuses to hold a plebiscite. Thus, we feel that ultimately we may well have to be the determiners of our own destiny. After all, it is not the will of providence that the victims of injustice and aggression should have no higher court of appeal than the UN.

Psychiatrist Tells People Play Life

EDITOR’S NOTE: This book review will run bi-weekly, reviewing books either available or on order at The Student Store. This week's book is Games People Play, by Eric Berne, M.D., Dell Paperback, $1.25.

By SAM DARBY
Feature Writer

It seems to me that whenever anyone undertakes to write a column he has a wide range of material from which he can draw. And although this is going to be a bi-monthly book review by me and Smyth, we see no reason to limit ourselves to a strict book review every week; not only would it be boring to read, but it would also get very tedious to write. So we have decided to be as crafty as we can and in between passages of serious critical analysis we are going to try to pass on any pertinent observations which we deem helpful to our dear readers’ striving for self-realization. The title of this column was chosen by lottery and though it is purely utilitarian, one may feel free to attach any significance which he chooses. We would be the last to squelch a creative spirit. Enough introduction. The subject at hand is a book by Dr. Eric Berne entitled Games People Play. This man is a practicing psychiatrist from California who has made an extensive study of “transactional analysis” which he published in a more scholarly work called Transactional Analysis in Psychotherapy. This book is a sort of sequel, but at the same time a “layman’s edition” of that text. If you have read the review from the (London) Times Literary Supplement, you will know that their reviewer said that “by no stretch of the imagination can the book be regarded as a contribution to psychological or psychiatric theory. Jargon and dogma are no substitute for the rigor we expect from a scientific theorist.” Whoever wrote that failed to understand that the book was not written for scientists but for regular people who would like some insight into things that they do every day but have never stopped to consider. And one thing that can be gotten from this book, in fact the most important thing about the book, is that it does lend insight into what Dr. Berne calls “Life Games” as well as simple “transactions.” For instance, he takes as his basic assumption that in order to maintain what is evidently a precarious psychiatric balance, we human beings are continually maneuvering ourselves into positions in which we may be “stroked.” “Stroking” is a thing which we all need, and as we grow up its form changes from physical caresses to verbal compliments and symbolic actions. When we are recognized by a professor for a “good paper,” we feel good, secure, at peace with the world, integrated. Berne says that this is a form of stroking necessary to our psychic well-being. And furthermore he does not rationalize it for us, which is very disturbing when you think about it. Things like this are not called “games,” however. The title of the book comes from the very complex system of maneuvers which people assume in order to gratify their very real need for “stroking.” Some of these of course can become very perverted and in the end devastating to the individuals involved; and others seem to work successfully. They are all serious, and evidently very much the same all over the world. The names are suggestive and range from RAPO (a sexual game) to LYAHF (Let’s see you and him fight); from IWFY (a favorite among middle-aged housewives: If it weren’t for you) to ALCOHOLIC (one in which the payoff comes from the hangover and the drinking is only a pleasurable fringe benefit). The main thing about this book is not that you can sit down and recognize all your neuroses, but that it provides a very real stimulus in making you realize why you do things.

By HEYWARD CARTER
Associate Editor

Criticism Advocated

For years now the Davidson College campus has fostered what may be safely called a homogenous student body. Admittedly the trend seems now to be toward a sort of diversification of student backgrounds and attitudes which is being achieved primarily through admissions acceptance with regards to geographical distribution. Part of this varying in background may be due to the widening reputation of Davidson and part to a conscious attempt by the admissions office to be able to say each year that we are becoming less regional. If there is such an attempt it could be one good means of starting a real program of student body diversification, but it is far from sufficient in itself. It seems more like attempts made by certain colleges at “token integration,” in that having so many Northerners and Westerners each year is like trying for just so many Negroes and no more. But still it is a start. In a college with such a high percentage of high school class presidents and ex-Eagle Scouts among its students, there is bound to be an almost equally high percentage of yes-men in its ranks, that is, men who are accustomed to conforming, if not to the will of administrative powers, to that of their peers. This is where our few showcase intellectuals and/or weirdos are useful—to provide a little friction every now and then as a counterbalance to the general feeling of satisfied complacency that could easily come to characterize Davidson. But this token number of unusual or non-typical students is too small to be significantly heard or felt in daily affairs. An occasional stomping out of chapel or the harassment of the ROTC department on inspection days is noticed but it is as much reflected upon in the long run, as the weekly unread letter to the editor. What is not particularly needed is an imported ratio of campus weirdos to provide amusement for the rest of us during an otherwise boring term—what is needed to keep Davidson inching away from the 19th century is a general feeling of criticism, of reflection, and even of dissent on the part of the laziest, but potentially the most powerful force on campus, the Average Student. For most of us it is too late to begin criticizing—it would require too much energy, both physical and mental. But even among the seniors there are still a few who either haven't completely adopted the normal attitude of indifference or who have passed through the “I don’t give a damn” stage to giving very much of a damn—not only about Davidson's faculty and administration but also about themselves and their own education. The fact that there are a few of these Average Students at Davidson who are concerned about the school and themselves indicates that there can be more. Hopefully there are more than usual in the freshman class, but as this is a hope which proves futile each year, maybe we should ask that those Average Students among the freshmen who feel from time to time in disagreement with what they find at Davidson not try to justify it or forget it, but instead that they let someone know that they have a gripe. In the end, a little constructive criticism from many can obtain far greater and quicker results than intensive dissent from a few. This year then, in the name of progress, come, let us bitch together.

Northwestern Halts Discrimination

By Collegiate Press Service

Northwestern University’s Student Senate has acted to halt discrimination by fraternities and sororities. After lengthy debate, the Senate adopted a resolution instituting procedures for investigation of racial or religious discrimination during this fall's rush. Any evidence revealing and substantiating rush bias will be submitted to the school's Council on Undergraduate Life (CUL), which may then act to suspend the rush programs of the Greek organizations in question or expel the houses from the campus. Included in the resolution is a request to the Dean of Students that incoming freshmen be informed of the policy and of their responsibility to report any discriminatory practices they encounter during rush. One of the provisions of the document calls on Panhellenic to secure promises from sorority alumni that recommendations be written without regard to race or religion. The Senate has also passed a resolution calling for open occupancy legislation in Evanston, a suburb north of Chicago. Panhellenic Council president Natalie Krewitsky said the resolution is “virtually unenforceable.”