Che Bavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

N. C. Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1967

Communication Gap

Last week's so-called “Brown Ground Report” made a telling point when it referred to the lack of communication between students on the one hand and administration on the other.

To most students, administration figures appear as stereotypes, individuals who can be characterized by a glib phrase or nickname. There is little awareness of the scope most administrative positions entail.

The situation from the other point of view is no better. Aside from contact with certain student leaders and with errant students seeking solutions to specific problems, there is little administration-student interplay of ideas and feelings. Consequently, those who run the day-to-day affairs of the college have little awareness of what students are thinking or wanting.

Even the Student-Faculty Coordinating Committee, which was established for the very purpose of maintaining communication between students and administration, has failed to even give a semblance of operation this year. The committee has met once during the year, in October, and that only to discuss perfunctory matters. The committee has never worked ideally, and at times it has even hindered progress. It certainly does not operate as a substitute for the much-needed personal contact that is acutely lacking here now. Rather, it serves as an indication of the poor state to which affairs have dropped.

Several years ago, when a minor crisis flared on campus over the college’s drinking rule, the president appeared at an Open End program to state and clarify nuances in the administration’s position. It was an excellent means of establishing a certain degree of rapport and understanding, even where a lack of basic agreement existed.

Davidson's trouble is that it is basically crisis-oriented. So long as the boat cruises smoothly, no one dares mention the possibility of rocking it. It works fine for keeping the status quo for long periods, but when a problem does dare to raise its head, it is unnecessarily painful to face it, because of the lack of understanding on both sides of the fence. The informal Open End confrontations and hastily called Student-Faculty Coordinating Committee meetings should be replaced by a continuing program of consciously planned programs.

A Question Of Value

Tuesday night’s Open End on subsidized athletics failed to live up to its potential because the wrong people were answering the questions. The key issue in the whole controversy, as Ed Dwelle pointed out, revolves around the question of the college’s over-all values, values which Lefty Driesell and Homer Smith have no part in formulating.

Davidson’s athletic program assumed its present form when the trustees and faculty decided that they “valued” the benefits that subsidization could bring the school. Coaches Driesell and Smith didn’t decide that subsidization was good for Davidson and they aren’t the ones who should be called on to defend it. Driesell and Smith are employees of the college, who, as Driesell justly emphasized, are merely “doing their job” of carrying out an athletic policy formulated by the faculty and trustees. No one can fault them for that.

The people who should have been answering the questions Tuesday night are the faculty and trustees. They are the ones who decide what Davidson values; therefore they are the ones who should be asked to show how the presence of subsidized athletics at Davidson is consistent with our goal of becoming one of the finest small liberal arts colleges in the country.

In The Right Direction

Nobody can say that Miles College, at Birmingham, Ala., is getting a hand-me-down in the person of its new director of freshman studies. That Negro students across the length and breadth of the land—be they in elementary schools, high schools or colleges—have had to make do with hand-me-downs is one of the egregious handicaps which have too long lain in the path of the proper education of black youth. John Monro, Dean of Harvard College—in many ways at the very peak of his distinguished academic career—is striking as momentous and memorable an individual blow at this pattern as any individual could.

In accepting the Miles appointment, he is following a path already traveled by many idealistic young scholars, who upon graduation with distinction from Ivy League colleges, have chosen to give a year or more of their time to teaching in Negro colleges in the South. But Dean Monro’s decision to give up his prestigious job at Harvard while still a relatively young man for a total commitment to Miles is unprecedented.

In all fairness to Southern Negro colleges, nobody should overlook the fact that—for all the odds against which they struggle—they in turn have their successes. The path between them and some of the best educational institutions in the North is trod occasionally in the direction opposite to that which Dean Monro is taking.

Such bridges between black and white in the United States are all the more important when both communities have temporarily withdrawn again into their laagers of protective racial solidarity. Admittedly, the hiatus is largely due to frustration over how to crack the nut of the problem in the North, rather than in the South—where Dean Monro is going. But fewer contributions are more valuable than those helping to improve the quality of Negro education anywhere and everywhere in the land.

—Christian Science Monitor

Who’s On First?

You’ve probably seen the advertisements recently by the second largest car rental agency in the country. They proclaim that if they aren’t stopped, they'll be number one by 1970.

The world has more No. 2’s than their second largest car rental agency. Perhaps some of them may start advertising.

U.S.S.R. in U.S. News and World Report: “Some people think we’re No. 2. We don’t believe it, and we aim to prove it. If we haven't won the war in Vietnam in two years, you can take away our hammer and sickle. We try harder.”

Negroes in a Southern paper: “We are trying harder. We shall overcome. You kids won't be able to go to school with our kids someday, and we'll have YOU working in OUR cotton fields and factories.”

Republican writing LBJ: “Well, Sir, we showed you in the Congressional election of 1966 how powerful we are becoming. By 1968 we will be No. 1. We'll win the next election hands down.”

American Football League: “We've decided to change our slogan as No. 2 of ‘We try harder’ to ‘If you can’t beat ‘em, join ’em’.”

Communist guerillas in Vietnam: “You G.I.’s will soon see. Our ‘Big Brother’ will help us come out on top. We'll try harder to beat you with guerilla tactics and booby traps, and we’ll win. Then WE’LL be No. 1.”

Adam Clayton Powell to Congress: “Think you’re best because you got my seat, don’t you? But don’t worry, my followers are ‘keeping the faith, baby,’ and I'll be back. I'll show you who's best.”

Lynda Bird Johnston to George: “I know it will be hard to replace your mother in your heart, George. But I'll try to be the best girl you ever had. And remember, my Daddy will draft you if I don’t win.”

Keep up the good work, Number One.

—Daily Tar Heel

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Illusions, Reality Clash At Montpellier

Dear Editor:

There are two distinct aspects of the Davidson Junior Year at Montpellier; the first aspect is the image of France and life at a European University formed by the student before he leaves Davidson. His mind is full of the stories he has heard—many from faculty members who have spent some time in Europe—of the deep political and social involvement of French students; the greatness and comprehensiveness of the French university system, and the responsibility with which these dedicated French students handle a facet of educational life which is only beginning to be discussed at Davidson—academic freedom.

In addition to the picture of the French educational system, which the student usually comes to take for granted, is that of the student’s own life at Montpellier—a year of trips to every part of the Continent, sleeping until noon every day, and spending more time in discotheques and cafes with the world famous “French girl” than in class with his notebook—all of which he puts under the head of “independent study.”

The second aspect of the program is reality. It is certainly true that the opportunity for European travel is great. The amount of travel a student does while at Montpellier depends on his initiative and the size of his bank account, and is one of the most rewarding and exciting phases of the program. For many, myself included, it is a major reason for coming to France.

As for the French girls, the discotheques, and sleeping until noon—that is directly proportional to the student's ability to handle girls at home and his time spent at Hattie’s and in the sack. Being an American is not going to convert a sophomore introvert into a social lion.

ACTUALLY, WE ARE ALL FOR HIGH ACADEMIC STANDARDS. IT HELPS A LOT IN GETTING GOOD BALLPLAYERS TO DAVIDSON.

10-Year-Olds Are Ideal For Service In Vietnam

By Collegiate Press Service

ANN ARBOR, Mich.—(CPS)—Considerable attention is being focused on President Johnson's new plan to draft 19 year-olds first on a “Fair and Impartial Random system of selection (FAIR).” Unfortunately everyone is ignoring any new plan to change the draft based on a “Fair and Reasonable Classification Evaluation (FARCE).”

The FARCE study, which included extensive consultation with Selective Service Director Hershey, students, draftees, college administrators, and parents, concludes that 10 year-olds should be drafted first. The average 10 year old...

Antiquated Drug Laws Persecute ‘Gentle People’

By Collegiate Press Service

They're busting the gentle people again. It's no surprise, really. Mankind has never been very tolerant of its misfits. There was a time, in Rome, when they tossed them to lions before degenerate thrill seekers because they refused to offer incense to Jupiter or Mithras.

But though human persecution has had many varied forms through history, one aspect never changes—it’s the gentle people who catch the most hell. Maybe it’s because they can't fight back. Maybe it’s because of an innate sadistic streak in homo sapiens. Maybe it is the overpowering terror of the unknown. Or maybe it's because they offer a quiet and disturbing challenge to our own inner convictions so we must hide our doubts in outrage and atrocity.

But always, it's the gentle people we bust. America has progressed and we don't bust them any more for religion (well, not most religions anyway) or for politics (well, not most politics anyway). We bust them for grass though. Grass. Cannabis Sativa. The Evil Weed. Pot. Tea. Mary Jane. Panama Red. Acapulco Gold. In short—marijuana. Exactly...Why we bust them, it's hard to say. They haven't hurt us. Their weed only makes them gentler. They only want to bang around their own minds and hunt for what they can find in the dusty corners of sensory experience. Since when is that skin off of our nose? So they grow their hair long. Big deal! No long-haired hippie ever ordered workers murdered for trying to organize a union—which is a lot more than we can say for a lot of eminently “respectable” business executives that this country honors in memory when it should spit on their graves. We scream at the gentle people that their marijuana rots their minds. Then we go home and take our daily pint of fuel oil, eat the olive, snap at our wife, vomit on the rug, and feel self-righteous as all get out because we're not potheads. These kids aren't stupid, you know. They've read the La Guardia report, the definitive study on “The Marijuana Problem in the City of New York." It says bluntly that marijuana isn’t a problem and should be legalized! Just about all competent studies by scientists, as opposed to opinionated “moralists,” yield the same conclusion. Marijuana should be legal in the United States as it once was. It can be regulated and controlled as is liquor—a drug to which it is often compared and to which it is superior on every point. But we never learn. We outlaw marijuana and drive the gentle people underground, alienate them from society, and force them into an alien subculture which is infinitely more incompatible with our dream of a standardized, homogenized 2 percent butterfat American Way of Life than they would ever be if we left them alone. We wonder how many more thousands of young and promising lives will be smashed in the mincing machine of our superstitions and antiquated drug laws before the public wakes up. But our hopes are low. There can be no salvation for the hippies, for they are gentle folk. If they'd riot and burn and loot and kill and plunder and let the streets run red with blood, we'd notice them. We'd respect them. And we'd immediately begin a dialogue. But they're not. They're gentle people asking only the freedom to explore their own inner consciousness and to harm no one. And in human society as we know it, the meek always inherit the earth. Six feet of it. (The author is Bob Ewegen, editor of the Colorado Daily).

Would make a great soldier. Unlike his soft older brother, the average 10-year-old is in top physical condition. Since he hasn't been corrupted by SDS and New York Times anti-war propaganda, he'll lack mental reservations about fighting. And fresh from hours of TV viewing and model building, he'll be thoroughly versed in modern combat techniques. Training 10-year-olds at Fort Dix would be simple. For example, search-and-destroy techniques could be taught under the code name of “hide and go seek.” And the young soldier would need minimal training in how to handle a spiked yo-yo or napalm-filled squirt gun. Even if there were occasional misfires, 10-year-olds would still be the best men for the job. From a public relations standpoint, it would be much better to blame a child for bombing a school than a grizzled Air Force reservist. Besides, who ever heard of a 10-year-old imperialist? In the field, the new soldiers could develop worthwhile innovations. Besides tin can walkie-talkies, the young fighters might use kites instead of smoke bombs to point out targets to pilots. The new soldiers would greatly reduce discipline problems in the service. One of the most frequent complaints from Saigon is that American soldiers have turned the city into a brothel. Not only would 10-year-olds end this, but they would curb the social disease rate. The new troops would also help curtail black market activities. Many PX items like razor blades and shaving cream would not be sold any longer. Besides, who would want to buy hot copies of Mad Magazine and Superman? Bubble gum, incidentally, would of course replace beer, although the 10-year-olds would have to be careful not to chew in the field. The pops could give them away to the enemy. While this plan does have its defects—Bob Hope would have to stay home during Christmas, and junior high school enrollment might drop—overall it is in the national interest. Not only does it aid the military, but it helps the colleges. What could be better than a 5,000-man VFW chapter on the Berkeley campus to keep student revolts down? (The author is Ron Rapoport, editor of The Michigan Daily).

Interested to a Junior Don Juan, or a library addict into a dissipated Continental. In other words, the social and many of the educational aspects of the Davidson Junior Year at Montpellier may or may not conform to the image the student has formed of them—that depends entirely on him and his character. The one side of life at Montpellier which will strike him almost immediately, however, is the academic life of the French student here. It will strike him because it is so entirely different from what he has been led to expect. Where are all the interested, involved French students he heard about repeatedly from Davidson professors in the spring orientation meetings? Where they are is in the minds of these Davidson professors—which professors, as a rule, have spent no time closely connected with French student life within the last ten years, at the least. The fact is that today’s average French student is not by any stretch of the imagination an “involved” person. Whereas 10 years ago any one of the universities in France could have been compared in some degree to, say, a Berkeley, because of mass protests of government policies, student “lie-ins” in front of troop trains headed for Algeria, and the like, today the atmosphere at the same universities is one of apathy towards politics or almost any form of social concern. True, there are student political organizations such as the National Federation of Students, the Students’ Mutualist Federation, and even Communist student groups, but they are a small minority in the university, and their activities are restricted to holding ill-attended meetings, passing out newspapers and “comic-book” type pamphlets containing the views of the political party backing them, and littering the ground in front of the student cafeterias with unread handbills denouncing America's “imperialistic aggression” in Vietnam—always a safe policy in France. The French student is perhaps less concerned about politics and the world around him than the average Davidson student. What he is often in is the latest mode, the opposite sex, and somehow treading his way through the maze of Faculte requirements for a degree, in four or five years at the least. Perhaps the stabilization of the government by De Gaulle’s almost totalitarian tactics has taken away the incentive for expression of student opinion. In the early 1950s when the Prime Minister and cabinet played musical chairs monthly, and French politics were more exciting than even French driving, I believe that students were more involved because in the turmoil of near anarchy there was more of a chance of being heard. Now whether they are heard or not doesn’t matter. What does matter now is what “Le Grand Charles” personally feels is the right policy for France to follow. This present-day stabilization of control from Paris can also be seen very clearly in the French university system. Here it seems to have resulted in not only stabilization but also stagnation—stagnation of initiative and ideas. Each French university is composed of several Facultes, which are similar to a combination of American post-graduate and undergraduate schools in a certain field (such as law, medicine, or arts and letters). Each Faculte has its local head, but the regional university as a whole is directed from Paris, to which the local heads of the Facultes are responsible. Thus the needs for each university and its Facultes and the remedies for these needs are judged remotely from Paris—a system that is far from efficient or effective. Whereas in the early 1900s the French system of education was generally admired in America and regarded as superior to ours, now it seems to be (and indeed is generally acknowledged as being) inferior to the American system. The reason is that while the American system has steadily improved, mainly because of continued excellence in some private universities and colleges, and continual advancement of technique and freedom of ideas in both public and private education, the French system has by and large stood still, and as a result of this has fallen behind. The French student is still expected to do his own research for any given course, receiving a detailed coverage of only one aspect of the course in classroom lectures (some of which have required attendance and “homework”). But how can he effectively pursue this policy of “academic freedom” when the university libraries have far too few books, have almost no system of cataloguing them, let him take them out for only 24 hours at a time, and when even the Faculte libraries themselves fight over possession of the books? It is easy to see how the student, frustrated by this inefficient bureaucracy which has become a daily part of university life, has come from a position of involvement and interest, to that typical of today—shrugging his shoulders, hurling paper airplanes at the professors, and mumbling, “Je m'en fous” (Roughly translated: “I don’t give a damn”). As Dr. T. A. Williams, Davidson advisor in France this year, remarked, “France seems to have come to a crucial period in its educational system in the last ten years—and turned away.” There is talk now in France of remodeling the educational system after that of the U.S., but to do so would take a great deal of initiative and time—and a completely new structure would have to be employed. If French education keeps watching the world go by much longer, the situation will be hopeless, but indeed there now seems to be no hope for throwing off the tyranny of the university's rubber-stamp, bureaucratic dictatorship. While the above does not resemble the picture generally accepted at Davidson—among the faculty in particular—it is a fact. The decline in quality of the French educational system should not frighten off or discourage any prospective Junior Year Abroad applicant: this one chance for him to really learn something for himself while enrolled at Davidson, through independent study, not to mention the opportunities for traveling and increasing his awareness of the world in general, will make it by far the most worthwhile, enjoyable, and exciting year of his entire educational career.

HEYWARD CARTER
Montpellier, France