The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief
BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1967

Holiday Gift

It looks like the Student Body may have a constitution draft for Christmas after all.

From all preliminary indications, however, it looks as though it will bear out our earlier prediction that it will be
merely a new way to do the same old things around here. Members of the revision committee have said that
the reason they have not tried to incorporate their work into any grander concept of campus government is that the
Student Council resolution which created their committee only entitled them to revise the student government, not to envision anything larger.

An interesting point to note here is that the committee that drew up the United States Constitution was originally told
only to revise the Articles of the Confederation. But it is probably expecting too much of this committee to ask
that it be that creative.

To remedy this situation, the Student Council needs only to pass another resolution suggesting to the revision committee that they
seek a way to incorporate their work into a larger campus framework. Plugging the much-heralded student Senate and Bill of
Rights into such a plan would not be a difficult task.

President D. Grier Martin promised last spring to appoint a committee to investigate ways in which the faculty and student
governments could be merged to avoid the old dichotomy of segregated campus worlds. Such a study has not yet begun.
It should have been started long before the revision committee was ready to present its constitution draft.

It is possible that the addition of faculty members to the Student Council committee which is studying the present system
of rules and punishments could result in the sort of cooperation that would lead to an integrated campus government. By
combining this move with a recommendation that the constitution revision committee try to incorporate its work into campus government, the
Student Council could lead us away from the dichotomy that characterizes our present system.

Down The Drain

We are beginning to wonder just what sort of leaders are being developed by the Richardson Fellows program here.

If they are supposed to follow the leadership example being set by the people who run the program then they
will turn out to be extremely ineffective leaders. Just look at what the program is supposed to be doing. If
anyone can find out, please tell the administrators of the Fellowship. They certainly do not seem to know.

In three months of activity during this school year, the students involved in the program have met less than six
times. The future plans that are supposed to salvage the program are only the same old things that were being
planned last spring.

The Richardson Foundation has dumped $20,000 into the local program, supposedly with the idea of getting some sort of results.
It looks like the only thing they have received thus far is an attractive office in the College Union and
some very expensive Drano.

A New Philosophy

By undertaking a major study of the rules and punishments that govern student life, the Student Council should take a
positive step towards developing a more realistic philosophy of student discipline.

All too often complaints about the present rule structure have only dealt with the dippy manifestations of the basic hypocrisy
and unreality of the in loco parentis doctrine. Davidson is certainly not fulfilling its goal of creating a whole man
if it only liberates the academic aspects of a student's personality. The college has begun to accept the idea that
the student’s mind matures more under an academic program which allows more freedom to him. It needs to apply this
same philosophy to the nurturing of the student's whole outlook on life. To simply replace parental rules with college rules
when the student enters Davidson does not help him develop self-reliance.

The whole idea of student self-government is really little more than a sham when it operates under the old in
loco parentis concept. The college has accepted the practical results of student self-government, but it has not come to realize
the implications that these results hold for the relationship between students and the college.

The college position on consumption of alcoholic beverages on campus is the most obvious example of the use of in
loco parentis here. Students were supposedly self-governing on the matter. But when they decided that the rule was no longer
of use, their repeal of the rule had no effect on the college's policy.

One of the main reasons it had no effect was the fact that the college believed that under the in
loco parentis doctrine it was carrying out a parental role in refusing to accept the change in the student rule.
Regardless of the college’s position on the effects of alcohol, it should not dictate its ideas to the student by
the use of rules.

To gripe about the dry campus, about closed dorms, etc. is only to slap at shadows. The real substance of
the present system of student discipline is the outdated concept of in loco parentis, a concept that stands in opposition
to the whole ideal of the liberal arts education designed to nurture the maturation of the whole student.

Getting Results

Fortunately for the freshman class, it looks as though the Freshmen Council is becoming something more than just a way
to help former high school BMOC’s adjust to political competition from other qualified high school BMOC's.

While more telephones and vending machines for the freshmen dorms will hardly revolutionize the campus, they do represent something revolutionary
for the Freshman Council, tangible results instead of the normal empty politicking.

If Freshman Council President Steve Engstrom and his group can continue their good work and make something out of Lingle
Manor as the Student Council has requested they do, they may even replace that old campus joke with a worthwhile
addition to student life.

Not Just For Dates

What is that old line about the roar of the greasepaint and the smell of the crowd? Somewhere out of
the confusion and impracticality that is supposed to characterize the theater, the Red and Black Masquers have come up with
an example that the rest of the college would do well to follow.

In sponsoring the presentation Wednesday night of “A Raisin in the Sun” by students from Charlotte's Johnson C. Smith University,
the local drama club demonstrated the benefits of cooperation by Davidson with another area college.

The Piedmont University Center, now headed by former Davidson professor Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, is another example of the ways
in which such cooperation can aid the college program. Cooperation in other fields seems to be limited to having Queens
College girls participate in a program just to attract a larger crowd of Davidson students.

Although a pooling of resources to hold top-flight symposia is one of the most obvious ways that the colleges in
the Charlotte area could cooperate, it is not the only way. Any type of program bringing together students and faculty
members from these schools would be a broadening experience.

Davidson gentlemen are often accused of intellectual and social snobbery by students at other schools. Perhaps one reason for this
accusation is that Davidson seems to forget that other schools do not exist in this area simply to give its
students places to find dates.

—A Lice in Wonderland

Critics Taking Bead On Conscript Law

By WALTER GRANT
Collegiate Press Service

Although Congress has extended the draft for four more years, the Selective Service System still may become a campaign issue
in next year's presidential election.

It is highly doubtful that either the Democratic or Republican candidate will pledge to abolish the draft at this time.
But it appears likely that one or both parties will propose a number of reforms in the military system which,
among other things, may be aimed at reducing draft calls to zero.

Such reforms would be designed to encourage more young people to volunteer for the army by making military service appear
more attractive. The most important reform would be to raise the military pay scale so that it begins at the
minimum wage level of civilian rates.

Chances that increased pay for soldiers will be a campaign issue were boosted last week when a Gallup poll showed
that eight out of ten persons favor such a plan. When an issue has such widespread voter appeal, presidential candidates
are not likely to ignore it.

The proposal also is becoming more popular in Congress. Twenty-two Republican House members recently issued a joint statement advocating certain
military reforms, including an increased pay scale, as a way of reducing draft calls and putting the armed forces on
a volunteer basis.

The House already has taken the initial step by passing a 5.6 per cent increase in basic pay for the
nation’s 3.5 million military servicemen. The bill, which would cost about $633 million in the first year, is expected to
receive positive action in the Senate.

The big question is whether or not more young people will volunteer for the military if Congress and the Pentagon
increase the benefits for military personnel. Most observers agree that military reforms will result in an increased number of volunteers,
but there is disagreement over whether there would be enough new volunteers to end draft calls.

At least five Congressmen think an all-volunteer army is indeed possible if the right improvements are made. Their ideas appear
in a book entitled, “How to End The Draft,” which was published this month. The Congressmen list 31 specific recommendations
in what they say is “the first effort to define systematically a specific program of action which can lead toan
all-volunteer service and the elimination of draft calls." They believe that if their recommendations are followed, an all-volunteer service is
possible within two to five years. The estimated total maximum cost is $3.96 billion a year. Authors of the book
are Republicans Robert T. Stafford, Frank J. Horton, Richard S. Schweiker, Garner E. Shriver, and Charles W. Whalen, Jr. They
emphasize they are not advocating that the Selective Service System be abolished, but are merely recommending reforms which “individually and
collectively can work to reduce the size of draft calls, hopefully down to zero,” even under present circumstances. But, says
Douglas F. Bailey, research director for the five Congressmen, “if escalation of the war continued, resulting in the need for
more servicemen, there would still have to be some draft. I don't think we could get that many to volunteer.
But I think this plan will be effective in ending the draft under the present situation and particularly under real
peace-time circumstances.” The major proposal needing legislative action involves military pay increases. “As long as beginning servicemen get paid less
than the minimum wage required by law, there is no hope of ever getting rid of the draft," Rep. Stafford
says. “If military pay scales are not made commensurate with civilian pay scales, many young men who may wish to
serve may not do so for they cannot afford to make the financial sacrifice.” One problem, Bailey feels, is that
President Johnson will not want to endorse the proposals since they are being pushed by Republicans. But he thinks Johnson
will push for them anyway if and when he feels it will be to his political advantage. And Bailey thinks
that all the potential Republican candidates for president will endorse the proposals and strive for an all-volunteer service. The proposals
of the Republican Congress could provide the basis for a major issue in the GOP platform. And if polls continue
to indicate the overwhelming majority of the voters favor the plan, President Johnson and the Democrats may be forced to
respond in some way.

‘CONFESSIONS’ PRAISED
Styron Finally Realizes Potential

‘The Confessions of Nat Turner’ by William Styron. New York: Random House, Inc., 1967. xvi, 428pp. $6.95.

In the 24 years which have passed since he left Davidson College, William Styron has written four books: ‘“Lie Down
in Darkness” (1951), “The Long March” (1953), “Set This House on Fire” (1960), and “The Confessions of Nat Turner” (1967).
In his latest novel, Styron has for the first time fully realized the powerful talent that fitfully appeared in his
earlier fictions, especially in “Lie Down in Darkness,” one of the few major novels to come out of the South
since the Second World War. With this book, Styron has established himself as the only major prose fictionist in the
South who began writing after the war, excepting Flannery O'Connor. “The Confessions of Nat Turner” not only shows that its
author has at last found his true voice and idiom, but it also demonstrates that fiction of the highest order
can still be written in the South.

Contrary to what Styron tells us, “Nat Turner” is a historical novel as well as a “meditation on history.” The
action is laid in Tidewater Virginia in the early nineteenth century, as the culture and society of this region are
undergoing radical change. The emergence of a historical character like Nat Turner, however shadowy in actual fact, Styron takes as
representative of that change, if not characteristic of it. And so the book is logically Nat's story: it is principally
about his experience, and he tells it. Styron’s most difficult problem is the realistic depiction of the Negro mind, the
mind of an uncommonly sensitive and intelligent man who in many ways does not outgrow his primitiveness and naivete. In
order to accomplish this, the author must use and modify certain recognized conventions, and therefore he creates Nat with articulation
which is greater than he probably possessed in fact—and Nat’s language is essentially Styron’s. These things are necessary for the
author to fully render Nat’s experience—and present the novel from the first-person point of view with Nat as teller. Nat
unfolds his story through a series of flashbacks, and Styron manages the presentation of antecedent action with great skill. As
a whole, the narrative is beautifully paced, with a fine balance between panoramic summary and dramatic scene. Thus, through the
progression of Nat's meditations on the past, framed in his poignant and fatalistic awareness of his coming execution, Styron uses
fictive technique to discover the meaning of his protagonist's experience. Form and content are accordingly joined. In the end, one
finds that Nat's obsessions inevitably led to the massacre which he plans and carries out. The overriding passion involves Nat's
race and the condition of his servitude: the others are his Old Testament religiousness and Puritanical zeal as a minister,
his sexual repression, and his fascination with violence. Ironically, in the end, Nat is defeated by his very humanity, when
his revolutionary will is blunted by his feelings of guilt. The violence in “The Confessions of Nat Turner” is (to
quote an anonymous English critic) “not merely the violence of man; it is that of nature, of the ‘general chaos
of the world,’ of the ineluctable order of things, of the whole creation.” Since it is this kind of violence,
it strikes the reader as part of the true scheme of things—as believable and necessary. And this element is a
key part of the realism and credibility of Styron’s novel. “The Confessions of Nat Turner” is saturated with the feeling
of actuality: in it, Styron has a sure grasp of the concrete and the imagined whole: this involves a sense
of place as a dramatic dimension of the action: a sense of the interplay of past and present, and the
way a dramatic moment (the coming execution) can bind them together: and, finally, a tragic sense of life with its
inescapable waste, violence, corruption, and evil.

—GEORGE CORE, Instructor in English

Looking Backward
By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

A Sloth On Blessings

Owing to the fact that I suddenly discovered that certain of my courses, even in this, my senior year, require
some reading, I spent the Thanksgiving break here on campus. My major problem while staying at Davidson was keeping awake.
Although this problem is certainly not new, it was compounded during Thanksgiving by the lack of noise and other distracting
activity. Thus, I was compelled to devise a scheme by which to avoid the great bag monster. It suddenly occurred
to me that I could look to techniques for inducing sleep in order to discover a technique for preventing the
arrival of the great god Sloth. One common means for bringing on slumber is to count sheep as they leap
over an imaginary fence. Now, I thought to myself, what can I enumerate that will keep me awake? The spirit
of Thanksgiving at once engulfed me, and I was inspired by this apprehension of the numinous. Why not count my
blessings? Or, even better, why not count the blessings of mankind? The first blessing that came to mind was the
blessing of worldwide poverty and starvation. Without such deprivation, mankind would be denied the opportunity to experience life to its
fullest, to appreciate truly the presence of food. But starvation is not the only blessing which presently characterizes the human
condition. We also have been given the opportunity to participate in nuclear war. At first glance, this might be considered
a curse, but the threat of world destruction is actually an example of the proverbial blessing in disguise. For, the
threat of nuclear holocaust has given us peace by deterrent, a tribute to the wisdom and moderation of world leaders.
Evidence that this policy is working can be seen in Vietnam, where we are engaged not in a declared war
but in a program of pacification. The cause of casualty lists of course remains a mystery. There are yet other
blessings for which mankind can be thankful in this holiday season. The economic crisis in Britain, for example, has given
the world community the chance to hear Charles DeGaulle’s meaningful insights concerning the glory of France and the moral bankruptcy
of Canada. One does not have to look outside the United States, however, to find blessings for which to be
thankful. The mature, sophisticated manner in which the people of Gary, Ind., responded to the candidacy of a Negro for
the mayor of that city has given us new hope for the solution of America’s racial crisis. The candidacy of
George Wallace for the American presidency has provided us with one more chance to return to the glorious heritage under
which this nation has long endured—the heritage of white supremacy and individual rights. And the political situation is made even
brighter by the aspirations of Hollywood figures to high political office. Up to this point, the blessings I saw flashing
before my mind's eye were helpful in keeping me awake. However, I still was not completely satisfied with this technique,
inasmuch as world starvation, racial strife, and the threat of nuclear war are all God's fault. I wanted to count
something for which I personally might be responsible. The first thing that came to my mind were the facts that
I am not starving, that I do not suffer from napalm burns, and that I have not been caught in
a race riot, either white or black. Aware that my situation is due to my fantastic drive for work and
progress in our free enterprise system, to my citizenship in a peace-loving democracy, and to my enlightened, liberal views on
race relations (some of my best Negroes are friends), I found these thoughts much more satisfying to contemplate than the
blessings of mankind as a whole. But here my whole scheme for keeping awake began to break down. For some
reason, blessings like the threat of world destruction tended to keep me awake. But at the same time, my personal
accomplishments seemed somehow to bring on the rack muse. My eyelids grew heavy as I gloried in that good old
feeling of self-satisfaction.
