Page Six December 8, 1967

FOR A COLLEGE ‘SECOND TO NONE’

The Davidsonian

Students To Share

ED. NOTE: The following is the draft of the new Constitution which was proposed to the Student Council this morning
by the Constitution Revision Committee. There will be an open forum on the proposal Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 p.m. at
the College Union.

Preamble

We, the students of Davidson College, in order to share with the Board of Trustees, the Faculty, and the Administration
the responsibility for making Davidson “a liberal arts college second to none in the service of God and man,” establish
this Student Government Association Constitution.

Article I. Scope of Power and Purpose

1. All powers herein granted are vested in a Student Government Association (SGA), which acts through itself, the agencies established
in this Constitution, and such other agencies as the Senate may establish. The SGA shall consist of all regularly enrolled
students at Davidson College. The SGA shall elect a President of the SGA, who shall be the head of the
student government, and a Vice-President of the SGA. The President shall be Chairman of the Senate, Executive Committee, and Moderator
of the Senate. The Vice-President shall act as President when the office of President is vacated, or when the President
shall request it.

2. The purpose of the Senate shall be to contribute responsibility to the making and implementing of college policy at
Davidson, and to promote and supervise student activities.

3. The purpose of the Court of Appeals shall be to interpret this Constitution and the laws made under it,
and to decide appeals from all other student courts.

4. The purpose of the Honor Court shall be to encourage and maintain the Honor System at Davidson College.

5. The purpose of the Student Government Court shall be to administer the SGA Regulations.

Article II. Senate

1. Membership of the Senate

The Senate shall consist of:
— 3 Senators elected by and from each class
— 9 Senators elected by and from the residence halls in general proportion to population
— The Freshman Adviser, who shall serve only until the freshmen are represented
— The President and the Vice-President of the SGA
— And such non-voting members as the Senate shall elect.

2. Powers and Duties of the Senate

A) The Senate shall have all legislative power sufficient and proper to enact legislation for the welfare of the students
and the college and for the operation of the student government, in accordance with this Constitution.

B) The Senate shall elect its own officers, except for the Moderator of the Senate, and shall make its own
rules governing procedure and conduct of members.

C) The Senate shall have sole power to appropriate funds from the student government treasury and to allocate funds available
to student organizations.

D) A quorum of the Senate shall be 16 voting members. No law shall pass the Senate without the concurrence
of 12 voting members, and no by-law without the concurrence of 16 voting members.

E) All members of the Senate shall serve for a term of one year or until their successors shall have
been elected and qualified, except for the freshman Senators, who shall be elected by Nov. 15 of each year and
whose terms shall be established in the by-laws. The Senate shall pass no bill of attainder or ex post facto
law.

3. Removal From Office

The Senate, with the concurrence of three-fourths of its voting membership, may remove from office any member of the student
government for failure to perform his duties or for violation of this Constitution.

4. Executive Committee (SEC)

Executive power shall be exercised by the Senate Executive Committee, which shall consist of the President and the Vice-President of
the SGA and three to five voting members of the Senate elected by the Senate. The Senate may remove by
majority vote any Senate Executive Committee members which it elects.

5. Powers and Duties of the SEC

The SEC shall have the following powers and duties:
— To propose to the Senate an agenda for each Senate meeting;
— To represent the Senate to the Faculty, Administration, and Trustees;
— To collect and review reports of all other committees, and transmit them to the Senate, with recommendations;
— To nominate and, with the concurrence of two-thirds of the Senate, to appoint members of the student government not
provided for in this Constitution, except in such instances as the Senate may by law specify;
— And to propose to the Senate such legislation as it may deem wise.

Article III. Judiciary

1. Judicial Power

All judicial power granted under this Constitution shall be vested in one Court of Appeals, in a Student Government Court,
in an Honor Court, and in such inferior courts as the Senate may establish.

2. Composition of the Courts

A) The Court of Appeals shall consist of seven members, no more than three from any one class, nominated by
the Senate Executive Committee and confirmed by the Senate with the concurrence of 16 voting members. Members of this Court
shall serve from their confirmation until their graduation. The Court shall elect its own Chairman.

B) The Honor Court shall consist of 12 members, two elected each spring by and from each class except the
senior class. Each member shall serve from his inauguration until the inauguration of new members his senior year. The Court
shall consist of six seniors, four juniors, and two sophomores.

C) The Student Government Court shall consist of one member from each residence hall. Members of the Court shall be
nominated by the SEC and confirmed by the Senate and shall serve for the remainder of the academic year in
which they are chosen.

D) Vacancies on these courts shall be filled in the same manner as regular selection.

3. Jurisdiction of the Courts

The judicial powers of the SGA shall extend to all cases arising under this Constitution or any law or by-law
under it.

A) The Court of Appeals shall hear and decide all questions of constitutionality arising under this Constitution and shall have
appellate jurisdiction over all other student courts in questions of law. Any two members of the Court may issue a
temporary restraining order until the court reaches a decision, and the full Court may grant permanent injunctions in such areas
as the Senate may authorize, and may cite students for contempt of court.

B) The Honor Court shall have sole original jurisdiction over the Honor System. Since Davidson strives to be a Christian
college, and thus recognizes a need for understanding and compassion as well as for justice and honor, the Honor Court
shall administer the Honor System by instilling in students an awareness of the basic principles of honor and by enforcing
its decisions as it sees fit in the light of each individual case.

4. Decision-Making Responsibilities

Every student found guilty of violating any part of this section shall ordinarily be dismissed from the college.

5. Penalties

No student shall suffer any penalty from a student court more severe than suspension for two years. No student shall
receive a transcript or graduate while charges or appeals are pending, and no student who shall withdraw while charges or
appeals are pending shall be readmitted without standing trial.

6. SGA Regulations

The SGA may adopt by a two-thirds vote in referendum such regulations governing student conduct as it may deem wise.
Such regulations may be proposed by a petition of 50 SGA members or by a two-thirds vote of the Senate.

Article IV. Rights and Responsibilities of Students

This article is grounded in the belief that the responsibility to secure and to respect general conditions conducive to the
freedom to learn is shared by all members of the academic community.

1. Students in the Classroom

The professor in the classroom and in conference should encourage free discussion, inquiry, and expression.

A) Student performance shall be evaluated solely on an academic basis, not on conduct, opinions, or performance in areas unrelated
to academic standards.

B) Students shall be free to take exception to the data or views offered in any course of study and
to reserve judgment about matters of opinion, but they are responsible for learning the content of any course in which
they are enrolled.

C) All student transcripts and academic and personal records shall be kept in confidence by the college, and shall not
be revealed to persons outside the faculty or administration without the specific written authorization of the student, nor shall any
member of the faculty or administration reveal such information without similar authorization.

2. Student Affairs

A) Freedom of Association. Students shall be free to organize and join associations of their own choice.

1) Neither the College nor the SGA shall discriminate against a student because of membership in any organization, and affiliation
with an extramural organization shall not disqualify a student from participation in any college activity.

2) No organization shall be required to file a list of members.

3) No organization shall have its charter revoked without due process. The procedure of due process for revocation of charters
shall be set in the by-laws.

4) No student organization shall have the use of college facilities unless chartered by the SGA.

B) Freedom of Inquiry and Expression

1) The student shall have the right to support causes by any orderly means which does not disrupt the regular
and essential operation of the College.

2) Student organizations shall be allowed to invite and sponsor speakers of their own choosing.hear any speaker of their choice,
utilizing only those routine procedures necessary to assure orderly scheduling of facilities and adequate preparation for the event.

C) Student Participation in College Government
The SGA shall have clearly defined means to participate in the formulation and application of college policy affecting academic and
student affairs.

D) Freedom of the Student Press
Freedom of the student press shall not be abridged.

3. Off-Campus Freedom of Students

A) Exercise of the Rights of Citizenship
Neither the College nor any student organization shall infringe upon the rights of students as citizens, but students shall remain
subject to the obligations of their membership in the academic community.

B) College Authority and Civil Penalties
Upon student violation of civil law, the College shall advise students of sources of legal counsel and other assistance. A
penalty assessed by a civil court shall not alone be cause for disciplinary action by the college or SGA.

4. Disciplinary Procedure
Due process shall be observed to protect the student from unfair punishments: The student shall be informed of the charges
against him, he shall be given the opportunity to refute them, judicial action shall not be arbitrary, and there shall
be provision made for appeal of an original decision.

A) Standards of Conduct:
The student shall be as free as possible from regulation not directly relevant to his education. The standards of conduct
shall be formulated with significant student participation.

B) Investigation of Conduct:
Except in extreme emergencies, dormitory rooms and student vehicles shall not be searched except by a person so authorized by
the Dean of Students or the Chairman of the Court of Appeals. This authorization shall be in writing and shall
specify the reasons for the search and the objects or the information sought. The authorization shall be valid for 12
hours. The student involved shall be present if possible.

C) Status Pending Final Action
Pending final action on charges, the status of a student shall not be altered. Penalties shall be withheld until all
judicial action has been completed.

D) Hearing Procedures
A set judicial procedure shall be followed, as set forth in the bylaws. All judicial proceedings shall be recorded and
made available to the SGA.

Article V. Referendum, Adoption, Revision

1. Referendum
The Student Government Association may nullify any of the Senate by a two-thirds vote in referendum, and such referendum shall
be held within 10 days after the presentation of a petition for such signed by 20 per cent of the
SGA.

2. Adoption
This Constitution may be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Student Council and ratified by a two-thirds vote of
the Student Body. Its adoption shall constitute repeal of any previous Constitution.

3. Constitutional Convention
A Convention to revise this Constitution may be called by a three-fourths vote of the Senate or by a petition
of 25 per cent of the SGA. The Convention shall consist of the Chairman of the Court of Appeals, who
shall be President, eight members elected by and from each class except the freshman class, five members elected by and
from the freshman class, seven students elected by the Senate, and a non-voting legal adviser.

4. Revision
The Convention may revise this Constitution with the concurrence of 25 members, provided that the SGA shall ratify such revision
by a two-thirds vote in referendum within one week.

5. Implementation of the Constitution
After the adoption of this Constitution and until the Senate shall have been elected and qualified, the Student Council shall
perform the functions of the SEC and the Senate, and shall appoint the Court of Appeals and the Student Government
Court. Article IX and Amendment I of the previous Constitution shall become the initial SGA Regulations. This Constitution shall be
in full force by May 1, 1968, at which time this section shall automatically drop out of the Constitution.

'TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY
Yuletide is almost upon us. Let’s stop wasting time in classes and get on with our Christmas shopping. Following are
a number of gift suggestions, all easily obtainable at your nearest war surplus boutique.

First, a most unusual gift idea, brand new this year and certain to please everyone on your list—a gift certificate
from the American Veterinary Medicine Association! Each certificate is accompanied by this charming poem:

Merry Christmas, north and south,
Does your cow have hoof and mouth?
And your dog, fidele semper,
Here's a cure for his distemper.
Little kitten, cute and squirmy,
Bring her in. I think she's wormy.
To bunnies, turtles, parrots green,
Joyeux Noel! Heureux Vaccine!

Are you wondering what to give that extra-special man on your list? Stop wondering. Give him that extra-special shaving combination,
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades and Burma Shave. Each gift is accompanied by this charming poem:

Christmas merry, New Year bonny,
From your friendly blade Personny.
You will have the ladies fawning,
If you're shaving with Persawning.
Injector style or double edges,
Both are made by good Persedges.
And Burma-Shave in plain or menthol,
Leaves your face as smooth as renthol.

(Note: As everyone knows, renthol is the smoothest substance ever discovered. You may not know, however, that renthol is named
after its inventor, Ralph Waldo Renthol, who developed it by crossing a swan with a ball bearing.)

Interestingly enough, Mr. Renthol did not start out to be an inventor. Until age 50 he was a Western Union
boy. Then fate took a hand. One day while delivering a singing telegram to a girl named Claudia Sigafoos, Ralph
noted to his surprise that the telegram was signed “Claudia Sigafoos!” She had sent herself a birthday greeting!

(When pressed to explain, Claudia told Ralph a heart-rending tale. It seems that when she was only six weeks old,
her parents were killed in an avalanche. The infant Claudia was found by a pair of kindly caribou who raised
her as their own. They taught her all they knew—like how to rub bark off a tree and which lichens
are better than other lichens—but in time they saw that this was not enough. When Claudia reached age 18, they
entered her in Bennington. Unused to people, Claudia lived a lonely life—so lonely, in fact, that she was reduced to
sending herself birthday greetings, as we have seen.

Ralph, deeply touched, married Claudia and tried his best to make her mingle with people. It didn’t work. They went
nowhere, saw no one, except for an annual Christmas visit to Claudia’s foster parents, Buck and Doe. To while away
his long, lonely hours, Ralph finally built a workbench and started to futz around with inventions, as we have seen.

It is pleasant to report that the story of Ralph and Claudia ends happily. After the birth of their two
children, Donder and Blitzen, Claudia joined the PTA and soon overcame her fear of people. Ralph joined the Elks.)

But I digress. Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night! Ho-ho-ho!

(Note: The makers of Personna and Burma Shave join Old Max in extending greetings of the season.)
