Dear Nigger,

As a recent Davidson grad, I was shocked to read of niggers like you on campus.

Tampa, Florida, 9 December 1966

Suggest you return to Africa - one thing for sure, they don't need you on campus.

Yours,

The letter reproduced above was waiting for juniors Leslie Brown and Wayne Crumwell when they arrived home for the Christmas recess. Attempts by THE DAVIDSONIAN to determine the validity of the signature were unsuccessful. Crumwell and Brown are the only Negroes in the Junior Class.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1967

4 New Professorships

The Charles A. Dana Foundation, Inc., has announced that Davidson College will receive $250,000 for the establishment of four Charles A. Dana Professorships.

“For several years we have been assisting colleges and universities with funds for buildings and facilities,” said Charles A. Dana, founder of the program. “Eight years ago,” he continued, “we established a continuing scholarship program in 10 colleges which will have a total of 600 Dana Scholars next year.

“It appeared to me and the trustees of the foundation that a third area of need, for many colleges with small endowments, was that of the significant support which would bring outstanding faculty members.”

Davidson College, one of 10 colleges and universities to receive the grant, must match the sum with another $250,000 and place it in an endowment fund. According to the foundation's plan, Charles A. Dana Professors must be teaching rather than administrative personnel. The college will provide a salary for a Dana Professorship equivalent to the average salary for a full professor. To this salary, a share of the annual income from the grant will be added.

Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development, said that the professorships can be awarded to either present or new members of the faculty. “The actual date has not been announced for the awarding of the grant, but it will be announced as soon as possible.”

President D. Grier Martin remarked that “this splendid and timely gift is another expression of the remarkable insight which Mr. Dana and his associates have regarding the most pressing problems that face a college such as Davidson.

“We are proceeding at once to raise by means of our current Ford Challenge Program the $250,000 which Davidson must provide to qualify to participate in the Dana Professorship Program.”

The other schools which are involved in the program are Bates College, Lewiston, Me.; Berry College, Mount Berry, Ga.; University of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, Conn.; Colby College, Waterville, Me.; Colgate University, Hamilton, N. Y.; Guilford College, Guilford, N. C.; Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.; Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.; and Queens College, Charlotte, N. C.

‘Grim Baker’ Provides Doughnuts, Philosophy

Blending a mixture of old-time religion into his views on today’s fast-paced society, the Grim Baker of Mooresville continues his role as the midnight-til-dawn philosopher of the Davidson community.

The Grim Baker, formally known as R. C. Powers, operates the Mooresville Bakery, frequented by many early-morning Davidson scholars. Powers admits that his business with college students has fallen off a bit this year, but figures that the upcoming exam period should see a return of many familiar faces.

“I always like to know their names, sort of building up a family here at the bakery,” Powers reminisced. The Grim Baker listed Barry Sickles, Dick Hurd, Fred Sackett, and Andy Clay as four of the more recent members of his illustrious ‘family,’ although Clay had only been by twice this year. “Andy used to come two or three times a week,” Powers sighed, “but this year he said he was going to study.

“Davidson students seldom get on my nerves,” Powers continued, looking back on 40 years at the same location.

Powers voiced strong opinions on the new morality that is creeping into today’s society, ranging from long hair to liquor. “Sometimes I just get plain disgusted with these fellas with long hair,” muttered the Grim Baker. “Why, it’s a disgrace to wear long hair, because it’s a symbol of woman’s self-pride and man’s weakness.”

When someone mentioned that Jesus probably wore his hair long, the baker cried that “he was the most brutally treated man of all time.”

Himself a Bible class teacher at Prospect Presbyterian Church (“the mother church of Davidson College”), Powers repeatedly revealed his extensive knowledge of Biblical verses in supporting his opinions. Pointing to his assistant, J. W. Robbins, Powers reported that “his grandfather was in on the meeting that set up Davidson, and it was set up as a religious school primarily to train ministers.” He bemoaned the fact that “that just isn’t so any more.”

Powers said he had even heard of students who were now talking down the Bible, that the Bible had little relevance in today’s world. Disgustedly the baker reported that one student, either at Davidson or Chapel Hill, had proclaimed “If you’re going to take liquor and women (See Baker, page six)

GRIM BAKER STARTS TO SMILE Rolling In The Dough At Night Study-Time

Study Guides Given

September 1968 has been set as the tentative date for institution of the revised curriculum, according to a memorandum of the Blue Sky Committee released this week. The release also sets forth a proposed “multi-track” curriculum for different-quality students and greatly increased interdepartmental work.

The memorandum, released Wednesday, advocates the preservation of present curriculum break away from traditional programs and attempting both tried and untried innovations.

APPROVAL ASSUMED

It is also to be assumed by the committee that the college will implement any curriculum changes which it proposes. The memorandum supports both greater student initiative in selecting courses and the utilization of educational experiences not presently available.

The ‘multi-track’ system will offer programs for exceptional, above average, and average students. Objectives of the committee were listed in the memorandum as providing the Davidson student with an understanding of mankind’s achievements; an awareness of the institutions, symbols, and technologies of the modern world; a desire for involvement in the world; an inclination to continue learning and to be open-minded; a facility in one discipline and an ability to express himself clearly in English and in one foreign language.

TIMETABLE SET

The timetable released in the committee’s memorandum includes subcommittee reports to be received by March 1 and April 1. New curriculum proposals to be completed by Oct. 1 and implementation plans to be completed by Feb. 1, 1968. Review and analysis of the subcommittee reports, including the report of the Subcommittee on Curriculum Structure, will be conducted from April 1 to June 1. Proposals for the new curriculum will be written from June 1 to Sept. 1. Review by student, trustee, and faculty groups and modification of the proposals will be made from Sept. 1 to Oct. 1. The proposals will be submitted to the faculty at the first meeting in October. Final development of the plans will take place Feb. 1, 1968. The new catalogue will be issued.

Does Alcohol Bring Trouble?

What goes on at schools that allow, either openly or tacitly, drinking on campus? To answer the question, DAVIDSONIAN staffer Ed Embree contacted newspapers at Eastern and Southern colleges and universities to gain a perspective on Davidson’s drinking problem. Embree’s story can be found on page six.

Plans are now being laid by the administration for the implementation of the new science program made possible by the Sloan Foundation. “We will develop a two-year interdisciplinary course in science,” Martin said, “to include subject matter from chemistry, physics, and biology, and to be supported by work in mathematics and in the philosophy of science.”Faculty Frontis W. Johnston emphasized that "the basic purpose of the course will be to strengthen education in the sciences by minimizing the classical compartmental character of biology, chemistry, and physics, and at the same time, preserve the rigor and precision possessed by the traditional courses. The laboratory approach will also be revised to provide opportunities for exploration rather than merely observation." In introducing the program in the fall of 1967, Davidson plans to admit only 25 freshmen and sophomores initially, as it is felt that the objectives of the course can only be reached through dependence on "the enthusiasm, knowledge, and imagination of the instructors." Issued April 1, 1968, and the new curriculum instituted in September 1968.

CHAIRMEN PICKED

Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston and Dr. Earl MacCormac head the Subcommittee on Individual Study Programs. The Subcommittee on Credits, Evaluation, and Graduate School Admissions is chaired by Dr. J. G. Martin and Dr. J. H. Ostwalt. Dr. Frank Bliss and Dr. J. O. Embry direct the Subcommittee on Special Curriculum Innovations. Dr. Max Polley and Dr. Charles Ratliff head the Subcommittee on Non-Western Studies. Ostwalt is chairman of the Subcommittee on Special Teaching Devices. The Subcommittee on Present Curriculum is chaired by Polley and Ratliff. Embry and Johnston head the Subcommittee on Curriculum Scope. The Subcommittee on Importance of Changes in the Secondary School Curriculum is headed by Bliss and Ostwalt. Dr. Locke White and MacCormac head the Subcommittee on Curriculum Structure.

MISCELLANY MERITS CRITIC’S APPROVAL (See Page Two)

NUMBER FOURTEEN

Blue Sky Committee Plans 1968 Target

Sloan Grants College $250,000 For Science

A $250,000 grant to the college, made public this week, will make possible an interdisciplinary science program for freshmen and sophomores. President D. Grier Martin was in New York Wednesday to formally accept the grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.

"We think this attraction can be especially strong for prospective teachers in high school, many of whom are repelled from the idea of science teaching by the rigor and exclusiveness of the traditional program," he said. "Further, a program such as we propose should be even more attractive to preministerial and premedical students, to whom a broader understanding of the methods and importance of science is desirable," added Johnston. "We propose to staff the program with as imaginative a group as we can assemble, and the college proposes to give them, within the bounds of reasonable academic procedures, a free reign for experimentation."

Among areas from chemistry to be covered during the first year will be descriptive inorganic; equilibrium and thermodynamics; analytical chemistry, qualitative and quantitative; atomic structure and chemical bonding; kinetics; electrochemistry and topics in organic chemistry. Physics topics will include mechanics and wave motion.

NEW LIGHTS ON CAMPUS

Davidson was one of 20 private colleges across the nation selected to implement programs which will strengthen their own position in the sciences and will also demonstrate means by which other colleges may improve theirs. This marks the largest appropriation from the Sloan Foundation for a single program in its 32-year history. A total of $7,500,000 is being set aside for the 20 institutions, with grants ranging from $250,000 to $500,000. The recipients were picked on a basis of their ability to conceive original and innovative solutions which might apply to their own fundamental problems and to those of other colleges in similar situations. Further considerations were the degree of commitment to improve science education, capacity to carry through plans, and ability to sustain the added effort after the Sloan support expires.

In its announcement, Davidson's program was cited as the only one involving an entirely new interdisciplinary science program. "We think that science itself will benefit by an increased association with the liberalizing and humanizing forces which have been traditional in the stronger independent colleges," says Everett Case, Sloan Foundation president.

Other colleges involved in the College Science Program are Antioch College, Ohio; Carleton College, Minn.; Colgate University, N.Y.; Cornell College, Iowa; Grinnell College, Iowa; Haverford College, Pa.; Hope College, Mich.; Kalamazoo College, Mich.; Knox College, Ill.; Middlebury College, Vt.; Morehouse College, Ga.; Mt. Holyoke College, Mass.; Oberlin College, Ohio; Occidental College, Calif.; Reed College, Ore.; Smith College, Mass.; Swarthmore College, Pa.; Washington & Lee University, Va.; and Williams College, Mass.

'Bag' Law Conflicts Unresolved

No plan has been discussed for changing the faculty regulations to conform with state laws concerning the possession and transportation of alcoholic beverages, President D. Grier Martin commented in an interview Tuesday. The recent North Carolina law prohibiting "brown bagging" has been certified by the Mecklenburg Superior Court and is in effect. It prohibits transportation or possession of liquor except in the case of transportation to a private home. The student conduct section of the faculty regulations states that a student may possess alcohol on the campus if it is in the locked trunk of his automobile. This is now illegal according to the state's brown bagging law.

"Obviously, students must obey the state laws or suffer the consequences," Martin said. "The college regulations will not be changed, probably, no." Dean of Students Richard C. Burts remarked that last spring when the brown bagging law was first reinterpreted by the N.C. Attorney General, the Executive Committee considered altering the regulations. However, an injunction was brought to prevent enforcement of the law in Mecklenburg County and the Executive Committee took no action.