By OON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

Alfonso Carillo is a name that is becoming as well-known around the Davidson athletics as Jimmy Poole. The Richardson Scholar,
who hails from Quito, Ecuador, has been making quite an impression on Davidson soccer fans as well as on opposing
teams. Thus far the flashy center forward has scored 17 goals.

The success that Carillo has had may be due in part to his style of play, a style reminiscent of
soccer played in South America. This type of play features the individual more, and it requires great finesse. Finesse is
the thing that Carillo is good at, Soccer Coach Harry Fogleman said. His confident ball-handling and cool shooting in the
midst of otherwise rough play are two of the team’s greatest assets. Fogleman, needless to say, has found Carillo an
invaluable addition to his team. He pointed out that it is quite possible that Carillo will personally exceed the goal
output for last year's whole team. The ‘66 ‘Cats managed to boot 22 goals. This season's squad has already scored
28, with Carillo contributing 17.

Carillo’s scoring boots have come on a variety of different types of plays, but perhaps the most exciting was a
goal he kicked in the Wildcats’ opener. Standing about ten yards from the goal with a defender on him and
the goalie closely guarding the goal, Carillo lifted the ball to shoulder height with his toe. Then, without turning to
face the goal, he lobbed a soft shot past his defender and just over the head of a frustrated goalie.
All season he has had a knack for leaving defenders frustrated.

The first thing observers notice about his play is the relaxed way he handles himself on the field. While other
players are frantically trying to hurry their shots and passes, Carillo calmly controls the ball until he has the opening
he needs. In addition to his 17 goals, he has had many assists. The confidence he displays can be accounted
for by the experience Carillo has had as a soccer player. He has been playing soccer since he was eight
years old. Having played that long, he has developed as much coordination with his feet as an American boy has
with his hands from playing basketball or football.

“I would say his ball control is as good as any soccer player we have had at Davidson or have
played against at Davidson,” Fogleman said. His ball control allows him to go around the defenders in either direction, while
most players have effective moves just to one side or the other. The only flaw that can be seen in
Carillo’s playing is a tendency to take it a little too easy on defense. Again this can be accounted for
by his not being accustomed to the American style of play. “Americans play like they do in Europe,” Carillo said.
“That is, rough. I think what they need to do is try to learn to handle the ball better, have
a little more finesse.”

Carillo gets a great deal of help from the rest of the soccer team, exceptionally well-rounded this year. Bill Horton
and Roger Peterson require a lot of attention from the defense and this helps Carillo work. In Wednesday's 1-1 tie
with Belmont Abbey, Carillo got the lone ‘Cat goal, making a penalty kick look easy. Then, with about a minute
left in the second overtime period, he narrowly missed the winning score with a direct kick from just outside the
goalie area.

Fogleman has coached a pair of All-America soccer players while at Davidson, but he hesitates to predict such an honor
for Carillo. He would like to see a little more attention to his defense.

---

Runners Tumble In

By BOB MEADOWS
Sports Writer

In a meet run Wednesday over East Carolina's sandy, rough 5.1 mile course, Davidson's harriers fell to the host Pirates
and Virginia Military Institute. The Pirates, who are second in the conference, trounced Davidson 15-50, while the Keydets knocked off
the ‘Cats, 18-42.

Jim McLaughlin finished first for the Wildcats and 12th in the meet. Despite the cold, windy weather, he finished the
course in 29:36 minutes. John Puckett was second for Davidson with a time of 30:08 minutes. Team Captain Randy Phillips
followed in third with a time of 30:14 minutes. Freshman Phil Croy finished fourth for Davidson and 21st in the
meet, while James Puckett came in fifth for the ‘Cats.

Davidson expected to lose to East Carolina, but the coaches figured on downing the Keydets. “We thought we had a
good chance of beating VMI,” said Coach Sterling Martin. “Our boys got bad field position at the beginning of the
race, but they still ran reasonably fast.” Martin said there were complaints about the sportsmanship of some of the runners.
“A lot of our boys complained about elbowing and tripping,” he said. “Some of VMI's boys also complained about this.”

East Carolina's strong showing reinforces the opinion held by many conference fans that the Pirates and William and Mary are
the top contenders for the conference title. The Pirates boast a strong team, boosted by returning stalwarts like Terry Taylor,
John Osborne, Charles Hudson, and Randy Martin. “East Carolina has one of the finest teams we've seen this year,” Martin
said, “and it is one of the better teams in the Southeast. They have a good chance of beating William
and Mary for the conference championship this year and also a good chance of winning the North Carolina State Meet.”

William and Mary and East Carolina traditionally dominate cross-country in the Southern Conference. Last season William and Mary was rated
17th in the NCAA. Also last season, the two teams accounted for six of the nine harriers named to the
all-conference squad.

Monday the harriers play host to teams from Appalachian, High Point, and Pembroke in a meet beginning at 4 p.m.
“This should be a fairly close meet,” Martin said. “All three teams are about as well-balanced as we are. We
have already had a meet with Pembroke in which we tied them.”defense. Still, Carillo has been providing the scoring punch
for the Wildcat booters and no one is complaining about that. Carillo's fine play, along with the overall strength of
the team, has earned a loyal following for the soccer squad this fall. Each game has offered much excitement by
way of good ball handling, passing, and shooting.

The Davidsonian
October 27, 1967
Page Five

Flickerball Charts
By KIM GRIFFITH
Sports Writer

The Kappa Alpha flickerball team closed out their season with a 10-2 record this week to win the IMAC flickerball
crown. Led by Sam Hatcher, Johnny Hunter, and Rick Harrell, the KA’s boasted an experienced, well-balanced team that defeated every
rival except the Phi Gams and Phi Delts. Most of the KA regulars were seniors who have been playing flickerball
for three seasons. With Harrell at fallback, the KA’s mounted a strong aerial attack. Hatcher and Kirk Reed were the
principal receivers. Hatcher and Bruce Vanderbloemen were key men on defense for the season champions.

Four fraternities ended the season in a tie for second place. The ATO’s, Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, and Sigma Chi's
all won nine games apiece and lost three to put them in the number two spot. Preseason forecasters saw the
Sigs, Delts, and ATO's as chief contenders for champion honors. The KA’s have usually finished in the lower end of
the first division. Tied for sixth place are the Phi Gams and SAE’s with records of eight wins and four
losses. Both teams began the season with more wins than they garnered as the season progressed. The Beta's split wins
and losses for eighth place while the Sigma Nu’s and Sig Eps tie for ninth with 3-9 year-end records. The
Pikas and Pi Kappa Phi's ended the season in the eleventh spot. Both teams won two games while losing 10.
Down in the cellar were the Independents, who ended the season without any wins.

In the freshman division, Cannon I smashed East II 52-36 this week in a game that looked like the defense
went on strike. Meanwhile, Cannon II overwhelmed Watts 66-14 in a game that looked like Watts went on strike. With
a 3-0 season record, Cannon II leads the freshman league. Freshman flickerball lasts another week. Trophies will be awarded to
winners in individual sports this season, with the KA’s scheduled to receive their award next week.

In other IMAC news, Coach Sterling Martin announced this week that the annual golf tournament will begin Monday in Mooresville.
Scoring will be done on a best ball basis as was done last year, he said.

ROB JOHNSON (L) STRETCHES ON DEFENSE
Frank Bass catches pass against champs.

Scoring Correction Lifts Old Dominion Over DC
By BOB REID
Sports Editor

Because of an error in scoring, the Wildcat sailors learned this week they lost a meet they thought they had
won. Team Captain Tom Kirtley received a letter this week from the officials at the Old Dominion Fall Invitational Regatta
informing him that a review of the scorecards proved that Davidson lost the regatta to Old Dominion last weekend in
Norfolk, Va. by one point. The ‘Cats left the regatta believing they had defeated Old Dominion by four points, and
William and Mary by nine. But the final decision gave Old Dominion 32 points and Davidson 31. William and Mary
was credited with 24 points.

“The judges were right the second time,” Kirtley said. “We should have lost. I don’t know what the problem was.”
A series of mistakes cost Davidson points which would have given them a clear margin, Kirtley said. Davidson skipper Tad
Lowdermilk fouled out in the first race, costing the team valuable points. Then in another race, Kirtley tried to foul
out an Old Dominion boat, which would have cost the winners the meet. But in all the confusion he fouled
a William and Mary boat by mistake. But, Kirtley said, Lowdermilk redeemed himself later in the meet by fouling out
an Old Dominion craft at the finish line, costing Old Dominion that race. Lowdermilk forced the foul by switching the
boom from port to starboard, thus giving him the right of way on a turn. He then cut into the
path of the Old Dominion boat, which was unable to avoid a bump.

Kirtley skippered for the ‘Cats in the A division races, with Roger Powell as crew. Lowdermilk skippered in B division
with John Moore as crew. Each division sailed five races, Kirtley said. Davidson picked up three firsts during the regatta,
he added. “The other teams had a better advantage sailing in home waters,” Kirtley said. The regatta was held in
Willoughby Bay near Hampton Roads. William and Mary and Old Dominion are both within 25 miles of the bay.

The ‘Cats were also crippled because they were unfamiliar with Penguin boats, which all contestants had to use. “None of
us had ever sailed Penguins before,” Kirtley said. “We didn’t know how to handle them too well, especially in strong
winds.” Brisk winds buffeted the sailors in the morning, Kirtley said, but in the afternoon the breeze died down “to
puffs.” “Our kind of wind,” Kirtley added. Davidson’s three firsts came after the winds had died down, Kirtley said.

Tomorrow the 'Cats travel to Columbia, S.C., for the University of South Carolina Invitational Regatta on Lake Murray. “USC and
Old Dominion are the teams to beat,” Kirtley said, “and the College of Charleston has good skippers.” The next home
regatta will be Nov. 4-5, when Davidson challenges Duke on Lake Norman. “Duke shouldn't be much competition,” Kirtley muttered.

Wrangler
Remember, the "W" is silent. Pick up Wrangler jeans for their lean, rangy look and get a reward — Wranglok®,
the wrinklefighter finish. It means neatness forever, ironing never. Many great jean colors and fabrics to choose from. These new
wide wale corduroys, $6.95. The Mr. Wrangler® hi-roll hopsack shirt, $5.00. Everything wears better because there's KODEL® in it —
a muscular blend of 50% Kodel polyester/50% combed cotton.

BELK’S — MOORESVILLE
ROUND-UP — STATESVILLE
SMITHEY’S — STATESVILLE
