Linksters, Netters Sweep Fuzzballers Garner Third Straight Title

By DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson's talented fuzzballers retained their conference crown Wednesday by winning the Southern Conference Tournament, bringing the team its third consecutive conference championship. Coach Harry Fogleman's squad scored 32 points out of a possible 36 in the event played on the Furman courts in Greenville, S.C., Monday through Wednesday. The Wildcats were followed closely by George Washington with 25 points. The remaining teams in their order of finish were The Citadel, Furman and East Carolina in a tie, Richmond and VMI tied, then West Virginia, and William and Mary.

The tournament is played under a seeding system with the entries in each division, that is, first singles, second singles, and so on. Players are ranked in the order of their record for the season. Each of Davidson's singles players and each of the doubles teams were ranked at least fourth in this seeding arrangement. Then one point is awarded for each team for winning a match or for drawing a bye.

In the number one singles competition, Esmond Phelps garnered two points for the team by winning a pair of matches. The second singles match was one of the most exciting of the tournament. Pinky Hatcher, seeded second, defeated the number one seeded man by scores of 6-4, 1-6, and 8-6. “Pinky really fought back to beat Randy Hefferon of The Citadel who had beaten him in a dual meet earlier in the year,” Fogleman said. The win gave Davidson four points and a division championship.

Seeded fourth in the third singles match, Dan Hearon played strong tennis to upset second-ranked Chuck Taylor of ECC in the semifinals to add three more points to the Wildcat effort. Peter Parrott crushed the number one seeded fourth singles player, Tim Taylor of GW, 7-5, 6-0 to add another division title to the team’s score. In the number five singles competition, top-seeded Geordie Mueller had no trouble winning the division and adding four more points to the total. David Jennings, seeded first in the sixth singles event, was also able to win the division title with little trouble.

In the doubles event, the team of Hatcher and Parrott, ranked second, were defeated in the finals by the team from The Citadel. Hearon and Phelps, top-seeded in the second doubles, had little trouble winning their division. In the third doubles match, Mueller and Jennings, seeded first, won the division by downing GW in straight sets 6-1, 6-0. “This was the best doubles match that Mueller has played in his career here at Davidson,” Fogleman said.

The team total of 32 points fell just short of the perfect score which the team registered in the tournament last season. “Our boys really played well,” said Fogleman. “Hearon played a great match in losing in the number three singles finals. The boy he faced just could not miss a shot.” The tournament victory rounded out the record at 17-5 with the conference championship. “In the middle of the season we knew that we could win the conference,” said Fogleman. “We lost several good boys from last year's team, but all season long our strength through the middle and bottom of the lineup has been the key to our success.”

From this year’s squad three players—Phelps, Parrott, and Mueller—will graduate this June. Over the course of their three-year careers, each has been a Southern Conference champion. Parrott only lost one match to a conference opponent over all three years. “We have been very proud of our team this season. With no tennis scholarships it is doubly gratifying to beat teams that do give grants,” chuckled Fogleman. The netmen will be feted to a banquet by the Athletic Department on May 17.

Seamen Come Out Ahead In Regatta

Licking their wounds after a poor showing at the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association Championships last week, Davidson's sailing club took first place honors in the Lake Norman Yacht Club Annual Spring Regatta Saturday. Club commodore Tom Kirtley skippered the team’s entry in the Jet 14 Class A competition to a pair of firsts which won for him a silver bowl trophy for first place distinction. Tad Lowdermilk served as crew in the race. Meanwhile, Ben Reeves and Yates Fletcher were plagued with bad starts and poor luck all day, but still managed to sail into fourth place out of the seven Jet 14s entered in the race. Reeves skippered in the races with Fletcher as crew.

Because of the large number of boats and nautical classes in the races, the Jet 14s, which carry only about 108 square feet of sail, were forced to start with the big Flying Scot and Lightning classes, both of which carry more than 200 square feet of sail. With about 30 boats starting at the same time, the Jet 14s were at an obvious disadvantage in the moderate winds. Kirtley and Lowdermilk explained that experience paid off for them in that each one knew how to cope with the larger craft. Kirtley said he has been sailing Jet 14s on Lake Norman and the Chesapeake Bay area for more than three years. He has also been sailing on Lake Norman for two years. Although only a freshman, Lowdermilk has been sailing Jet 14s for many years. Both sailors are familiar enough with wind currents on the lake to maneuver against larger craft.

With this combination of skill and experience, the two ‘Cat sailors dominated the fast starts with a starboard tack right of way and broke through to clean air in the center of the lake. In the first race, which lasted nearly two hours, Kirtley finished better than one-third of a mile in front of his nearest challenger. However, in the second race, a Jet 14 challenger kept pace with the leaders and closed hard before the second mark. Finally, the challenger caught the Davidson sailors at the last mark. The opponent's craft pulled aside the Davidson boat and raced almost dead heat toward the finish line. But the ‘Cats’ knowledge of the craft and Lake Norman conditions proved a deciding factor. The challenger was never able to gain any more than a hairline lead, and the Davidson craft stayed within easy distance of their opponent all the lap. A little more than halfway down the final stretch, Davidson pulled into the lead and coasted across the finish line first. Kirtley attributed the win in the second race to knowledge of the craft and the lake conditions. The regatta was originally scheduled to continue Sunday, but high winds forced a cancellation.

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
Storage For Students’ Winter Clothes — Free Mothproofing
MAIN ST. Davidson, N.C.

Spann, Jelks Capture Top Tourney Spots

By ROCKY CROSSWHITE
Sports Writer

Davidson's golf team won an individual first place and a tie for second, to capture its second consecutive Southern Conference title at Dunes Country Club in Myrtle Beach, S.C. The Wildcats ran away from the rest of the field Wednesday after leading by seven strokes after Tuesday's play. The victory gives Coach Dr. Tom Scott his fourth conference title. Mike Spann took first place honors with an overall score of 153. He played consistent golf throughout the tourney, shooting a 77 on the first day and 76 on the second. His score paced the field, and he finished four strokes ahead of the second-place winners. Joe Jelks of Davidson and Bob Bowers of George Washington tied for second with scores of 157 apiece.Jelks shot a 77 Wednesday to give him the tie after an 80-stroke performance in the opening round. George Leight of Davidson finished fourth with a total score of 158. Leight was hampered throughout the match by a series of bad breaks. On the first hole Tuesday, he drove in the rough and hit a shooting out. He still managed to get par after two clutch shots. Scores were better Wednesday because the fierce winds that plagued the opening round had subsided. John Giles finished tenth along with Lou Rubin of George Washington. Both shot 163s. Giles turned in a mediocre 86 on Tuesday but roared back with a 77 in the next round, only one stroke behind Spann. Cary Hite shot a 165 to win eleventh place. Dr. Scott said Hite played below his year-long performance, shooting an 82 Tuesday and an 83 Wednesday. The ‘Cats hope to get a bid to the NCAA Golf Tournament, which will be played at Shawnee-on-the-Delaware, a course in Pennsylvania owned by Fred Waring. Last year Davidson's team traveled to Stanford, Cal., for the Nationals and finished twenty-ninth in the country. Scott said he was very pleased with his team this year, especially sophomore Mike Spann. Spann has been a standout this year, Scott said, and has developed into one of the finest amateur golfers in the state. Spann seemed to be the only golfer in the tournament who could solve Tuesday's bad winds and register a good score. Davidson garnered 631 team points, followed by East Carolina’s 656 and William and Mary's 666. It was Davidson's tournament all the way, Scott said, and he looked for next year's to be no different. All the team members except Jelks are underclassmen and will return next year.

Team-Of-Two Heads For Conference
By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Competition in the 43rd annual Southern Conference Track and Field Championships got underway this afternoon at Fort Eustis, Va. While William and Mary is expected to retain the conference crown it won last year against the challenges of VMI and The Citadel, Davidson's toothless Wildcats would be happy just to place. Assistant Coach Sterling Martin left Davidson for the meet yesterday, accompanied by a squad of two to compete against subsidized Bulldogs, Indians, and Keydets. Martin noted an air of despair as he recalled that “several team members who had performed close to the standards set this year in the conference are unable to compete. Class cuts and injuries took their toll of some of Davidson's best track talent.” Davidson's two against the conference are Barry St. Clair, who will try to place in the half-mile, and high jumper Frank Bass. St. Clair’s best time in the event (1:56.3) is the seventh-ranking time in the conference. While St. Clair hopes to place among the top five, Martin looks for him to better the school record which he has previously tied in a relay. Bass’ 6-3 leap ranks him seventh also. However, the three men ranked just above him are tied at 6-4. While the ‘Cats hope to scratch, William and Mary will try to wrap up an outstanding year in the conference by adding the conference track title to their laurels. The Indians raided the cross-country and indoor track circuit and hauled away crowns in both events. While the Tribe features great depth, one man, Terry Donnelly, may rack up three individual titles. Donnelly has reeled off times of 1:50.9 in the 880 and 4:07.8 in the mile. This year he is considering entering the 3,000-meter steeplechase, a new event this year. Down-to-the-wire duals may highlight the race for other individual honors. Bob Crute of Richmond will battle Furman's Kim Piersall in the 100 and 220. Both are eyeing the conference record for the two events. Crute will battle conference record holder Fred Anspach of William and Mary in the 440. In the high jump, Rick Conway of William and Mary and VMI's Colin Campbell have recorded 6-6 jumps, but Martin thinks that Cal McCombs of The Citadel may slip past them. In the mile relay, Richmond and William and Mary have recorded identical times, and each will be seeking the new record. Last Friday John Fagg, James Puckett, and St. Clair participated in the State Meet in Raleigh. Although he failed to qualify in the discus, Fagg performed well, Martin said, considering the high level of competition. St. Clair was disqualified in the 880 for crossing in front of another runner on a curve. “He had elbowed me all through the straight-away," said St. Clair, “but once you're disqualified there's nothing you can do.” Puckett, a freshman, did not participate since there was no competition at the freshman level.

IMAC To Close Year With Awards
Finals in tennis and volleyball competition next week will close IMAC action for this year, IMAC president Doug Rhymes said this week. Competition is scheduled to end Tuesday and the championship announced later in the week. In volleyball, the Sigma Chi's, Phi Delts, and Kappa Sigs stand as the powerhouses. The Machis have defeated the Pikas, Betas, and Phi Gams, while losing to the Sigs. The undefeated Delts downed the Betas and Gams, while the Sigs defeated the Sigma Nu’s, Sig Eps, Machis, and Independents. In other games, the Pikas downed the Nu's but lost to Sigma Chi. The Gams beat the ATO’s and SAE’s. The Taus beat the KA’s, while the Sig Eps edged the Pi Kapps. The Independents beat the Sig Eps, while the Betas won a pair from the E’s and KA’s. Freshman results were unavailable.

PROFESSIONAL PILOT TRAINING IN JUST 17 WEEKS
Be ready for Airline or Commercial Employment. Commercial - Instrument - Multi Engine. Instructor * FAA approved Flight & Ground School * Individual personal attention ~ All new equipment and facilities * Write for free brochure * Financing available
AVIATION ACADEMY OF NORTH CAROLINA, INC.
Raleigh-Durham Airport
919-833-6656 — Box 200
Morrisville, North Carolina 27560

Cashion Gulf Service
Complete Auto Service
Phone 892-9305
Open 6:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.

STEAK
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Summervacationitis. How to spot and get rid of it:
Fluorescent fade-out. That's from being cooped up all winter. What you need for that is some sunshine Vitamin D. There’s a whole lot of it available at Sunset Beach in Acapulco.
The good books. They have the possibility of being good symptoms. That’s if you seek summer scholastics. Say in, Mexico City. Or Acapulco.
College fatigues. That's the uniform you wore all semester. Get rid of those o.d.’s (olive drabs). Break out the white levis. And throw on a colorful Mexican serape.
Sallow pallor. Pollid peepers. Note: If symptoms get worse, see your travel agent or call Eastern. There's no sparkle in those baby-blue eyes. It’s been knocked out by all those exams. Get that vitality back: See what good is still left in the world. Go to Expo 67, Montreal.
Lip lingo. They're letters from good buddies away for the summer. The best way to avoid them is not to be there when they arrive. Be in Puerto Rico instead.
Racquet squad. That's the tennis team in your neighborhood during the summer. You'd find snorkeling or scuba diving in the Bahamas would make playing tennis seem like last summer's bad sport.
BLT Down. That’s all you've known summer after summer. A change of palate would do you good. In Bermuda, a few savory morsels of Hopping John with a sauce of Paw-Paw Montespan usually does the trick.

EASTERN
We want everyone to fly.