Page Four October 13, 1967

FOE RANKED NINTH

Cats To Battle Blue Hose At Homecoming Tomorrow

By JAMES ROLAND
Sports Writer

Davidson will try to break its two-game losing streak tomorrow when the gridmen go against Presbyterian College, which has been ranked as the ninth small college team in the nation. The Homecoming game, which begins at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium, marks the 25th encounter between the two teams in the series which began in 1919. Davidson has won 13 times and PC 10. But this year PC Coach Caulie Gault will bring one of his best teams in years.

“This is by far the best season that they (PC) have had," Davidson Coach Homer Smith said. “Their earlier ranking (which placed them ninth) was higher than Davidson has even achieved.”

The Blue Hose depend largely on the passing efforts of Quarterback Bill Kirtland, who has passed for more than 400 yards this season. His favorite target has been end Dan Eckstein. Presbyterian has chalked up a 3-2-1 record this year. They played Frederick College to a scoreless tie, but then battered Lenoir Rhyne College 26-7 and Wofford College 20-7. The wins over Lenoir Rhyne and Wofford won PC its ranking on a wire service poll. Last week the Blue Hose squeezed by Elon College 21-20 but fell to Furman University, 45-22. Davidson whipped Furman earlier this season for the ‘Cats’ only win.

Smith will base his hopes for a successful afternoon on the rushing of fullback Kerry Keith and the passing of Quarterback Jimmy Poole. Both Poole and Keith are ranked nationally for their talents. Keith ranks eighth in the nation in rushing with 402 yards in 82 carries. Poole stands fourth in the nation in forward pass completions, two places ahead of Notre Dame's Terry Hanratty. Poole has a higher percentage of accuracy than any quarterback in the Top Ten ratings.

Smith said his team has been trying to toughen their defense this week. “The performance of the defense has been exasperating this year,” he said. “We're working hard to get settled on that now. By moving George Hannen and Terry Esterkamp to defense, we hope to get things in shape for Saturday's game.”

GREG COX SNARES ‘CAT AERIAL
Cox has caught 20 passes in four games.

Soph Hannen Provides DC With Brightness In Defeat

By ROCKY CROSSWHITE
Sports Writer

Even in defeat, end George Hannen has been developing into one of Davidson's most successful pass receivers. In the ‘Cats game with East Carolina University, Hannen grabbed 11 passes to shatter the Davidson record which had been held by Pete Glidewell and Billy Taylor. Hannen’s performance, which was one of the few bright spots for the ‘Cats during the game, was highlighted by a dramatic 40-yard pass catch in the second quarter. Diving for the pass, Hannen grabbed the ball with his fingertips and held it as he fell. Last Saturday the University of Richmond respected Hannen enough to assign two men to cover him. But the sophomore still managed to haul in five passes, even though he is not quarterback Jimmy Poole’s prime target.

Concentration, Hannen said, is the secret to being a good receiver. “You must forget the defensive man and concentrate on catching the ball. After that you must protect yourself and run.” Hannen has small hands and is not fast and must rely on concentration and deception. Mostly Hannen runs preset patterns, but occasionally, he and Poole arrange freelance plays. Most of the patterns are slant-in runs, where the receiver pivots on the middle. However, for variation, he sometimes pivots to the outside.

Hannen is only a sophomore, and Coach Homer Smith has hopes for Hannen playing for two more seasons. "George has really improved and is a fine pass receiver.” Tomorrow Hannen will have a double assignment, playing halfback on defense and end on offense. Injured during his senior year in Durham (N.C.) high school, Hannen played in only seven games during his high school career.

Duke Bombards

Duke University’s Blue Devilettes proved to be more than Davidson's freshmen gridders could handle last Friday, when the Devilettes crushed the ‘Kittens 17-7. The Dukettes were the first to score, hitting paydirt in the second quarter. The ‘Kittens failed to score until the fourth quarter, when Rick Hawarah snared a pass and scrambled 19 yards to tie the score at 7-7. But the Devilettes scored later in the quarter on a short run and again on a field goal to put the game on ice.

Despite the loss, ‘Kitten Coach Bob Brown said he was “pleased.” Brown added, “We are pleased with the way they hit Duke. They hit them hard.” The ‘Kitten running attack proved strong, Brown said, but the passing department looked weak. Brown said the problem with the aerial attack seemed to be in the timing, and that this weakness would wane with practice.

Brown said several team members showed promise during the game, especially Chris Giles, Rusty Lawrence, Dave Mockbee, Mike Mikolayunas, Bryan Peterson, and Bill Reeves. Several players played both offense and defense, Brown said. He added that this was to give coaches an opportunity to see where players would best fit.

Tomorrow's game will mark the last time Davidson and Presbyterian face each other for several years. The Blue Hose will not be on Davidson's schedule next year. “I tried to get them to find room for us on their schedule when we were making up next year’s schedules,” Smith said, “but there was just no place. This will be the last game with the Blue Hose for a while, but we will get back on their schedule sometime in the future.”

There had been some speculation that the series had been suspended at Davidson’s request. Presbyterian is not rated a major college team, and some observers believed that Davidson, now a major college designee, might have decided to schedule a major team instead.(Staff Photos by Weems) 

KERRY KEITH DIVES FOR YARDAGE AGAINST RICHMOND
Fullback follows lineman Sandy Brenneman (55).

‘Incredible Sequence’ Derails Wildcats In Richmond Game
By DANNY WHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats looked like a winner for three quarters against Richmond last Saturday but what Coach Homer Smith called an “incredible sequence of events” powered the Spiders to 17 points in the fourth quarter and a 24-17 conference victory over the ‘Cats. The defeat leaves the sophomore-laden ‘Cats with a 1-3 record after four conference contests.

The “incredible sequence of events” began with the ‘Cats holding a 17-10 advantage and in good field position on the Richmond side of the 50-yard line. First, Davidson received a 15-yard holding penalty. On the next play Quarterback Jimmy Poole was caught for a 15-yard loss trying to pass. Two consecutive offside penalties put the ball on the ‘Cat 19 with fourth down and 50 yards to go for a first down. The Spiders, benefiting from good field position after the punt, drove 51 yards in four plays to tie the score 17-17.

On the second play after the kickoff, Poole threw his only interception of the game. However, the ‘Cats held and Richmond was forced to attempt a field goal from the 17. ‘Cat linebacker Steve Butler broke through the line and blocked the field goal, then picked up the ball and ran only to fumble on the Richmond 25. The Spiders began their winning drive after Butler's fumble. Joe Kellum rambled the final 11 yards for the deciding TD.

Harriers Destroy UNC-C, WCU
Davidson's cross-country team brought its record to two wins against a single loss Monday, when the harriers defeated the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and Western North Carolina in a dual meet here. Davidson defeated UNC-C by a score of 19-39 and WCU by 15-48 to pace the field. UNC-C grabbed second place by downing WCU, 19-36.

Western Carolina's harriers are coached by Heath Whittle Jr., whose father coaches Davidson's track and cross-country. John Puckett of Davidson claimed first place in the meet with a time of 22:48 minutes over the four-mile course. “Puckett ran an excellent race considering his time,” said Davidson's Coach Whittle. “He is not yet in good shape because of his early season injury.”

Marty Fleming of UNC-C finished second, while Jim McLaughlin of Davidson finished third. James Puckett of Davidson finished fourth in the meet and third for the ‘Cats. Team Captain Randy Phillips finished fifth in the meet and fourth for the ‘Cats. Freshman Reaves Louthan placed sixth in the meet and fifth for Davidson. “Louthan ran a very fine race,” Whittle said, “and we are expecting big things from him and the other freshmen in the future.” Freshmen are eligible for varsity competition in cross-country for the first time this year, following a rule change by the Southern Conference this summer. Another freshman Whittle praised was Phil Croy. He finished eighth in the meet and sixth for the Wildcats.

Davidson was to have run against North Carolina State University this week, but Whittle said the meet was cancelled. The Wildcats were to have run against the Paladins of Furman University here at 4 p.m. today. The Paladins are traditionally a powerhouse in cross-country, and this year they seem to be as strong as in recent seasons. The addition of freshmen on the team should bolster their chances, according to Whittle. “Furman has run a good many meets,” he said. “They have a number of good freshmen on their subsidized team. But they have not run in a meet in which the course covered a distance of five miles as ours does.”

Before the turn of events in the final quarter, the ‘Cats were cruising on Poole’s arm with a 10-point lead. However, the Spiders scored first in the game on a nine-yard pass from Buster O'Brien to Kellum in the first quarter. Davidson came back in the second quarter to tie the game on a five-yard pass from Poole to end Greg Cox. The ‘Cats increased their lead to ten points in the third quarter on a 30-yard field goal by John Giles and another TD pass from Poole to Cox, this one for eight yards.

“Everything went against us in the fourth quarter,” summed up Coach Smith. “I was happy with our defense for three quarters but then I've never seen anything like that fourth quarter.” The ‘Cats had previously changed their defense during the week to what Smith calls his “Wildcat” defense which the squad used last year. “Our pass defense has been very weak so we switched back to the 4-4 defense we used last year,” said Smith. Davidson had been employing a 5-2 defense in the previous three games this year. “Our defense worked real well for three quarters but Richmond changed their blocking assignments in the last quarter and we weren't able to adjust,” Smith said. “What makes the loss so painful is that we played well enough to win but did not.”

Davidson quarterback Jimmy Poole had another good day even in defeat as he completed 19 passes for 193 yards in 29 attempts. That brings Poole’s total completions to 58, fourth best in the nation. Poole’s completion percentage of .572 is the best among the top ten passers in the nation.

JIMMY POOLE . . . In top ten passers

GRIM FACES REFLECT DEFEAT
Cheerleaders view grid debacle.

TASTEE FREEZ
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

TASTEE FREEZ
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE