Page Four September 15, 1967 The Davidsonian

LAST IN A LONG LINE

(Staff Photos By Weems)

Registrar's Office At 11:30 Wednesday Night

No Charters Withdrawn By Greeks During Break

Fraternity Liaison Officer Tom Covington denied Tuesday rumors that Davidson had been notified that any local fraternity will lose its
national charter if the college adopts its total affiliation plan. Covington said, “We have had no official contact with the
representatives of the fraternities as a group since our meeting last May. We have received no official notice that any
charter will be withdrawn.”

College officials met with representatives of the national fraternities which maintain chapters on the campus May 12 to discuss with
them the total affiliation plan drawn up by the local chapter presidents. Covington said, “At that time they agreed to
submit individual position reports to the college which would outline their concerns about the affiliation program. We have received one
of the individual reports from national offices. The one response we have received was specific in its concerns and very
helpful; we look forward to receiving other responses equally helpful.”

Under the affiliation plan submitted by the fraternity presidents at the direction of the Interfraternity Council, all freshmen would have
a chance to be affiliated with a fraternity. Two types of bids would be offered by a fraternity to freshmen.
The first would offer either traditional brotherhood in the fraternity or social affiliation. The second would offer only social affiliation.
Social affiliation normally offers full eating and social privileges but does not include participation in chapter meetings or ceremonies.

Schweitzer Talks At YMCA Camp

Dr. George K. Schweitzer, of the Department of Chemistry at the University of Tennessee spoke on various clues to the
universe in the keynote address at the 8th YMCA Freshman Camp. Schweitzer, who also spoke on the planetary crises created
by modern science, stressed the humanist, Christian and materialist viewpoints. Discussion periods followed both addresses.

The camp was held at Camp Thunderbird, in York Co., S.C., and was attended by 225 freshmen. The Reverend Will
Terry and Dr. Joseph Kellerman, head of the Alcohol Information Center in Charlotte, discussed the dangers of alcohol and religious
attitudes toward its use. Dr. Louise Nelson, professor of economics, spoke on students’ opportunities at Davidson. Terry, representing the Presbyterian
Church, Charles E. Lloyd, representing St. Alban’s Episcopal Church and Dr. Charles E. Ratliff Jr., representing Davidson Methodist Church, all
spoke on the program of their respective churches.

To give the Class of '71 a chance to find out about social life at Davidson, Joe Norton brought in
eight girls from surrounding colleges. Camp Thunderbird’s recreational facilities were available: basketball, football, swimming, canoeing, tennis and ping pong were
among the free-time activities. Chairman Cecil Clifton headed the YMCA Freshman Camp committee composed of Johnny Durham, Bobby Vagt and
Marshall Guill served as business manager.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ED EMBREE
ROBBIE HOOKER

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
BOB REID

Assistant Sports Editors:
DON SEWELL
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Mark Wingate, John Pancake, Lewis Lavine, George Cretekos, Dick Anderson, Jim Hudson, Steve Callender, Ben Garrett, John Williams, Danny Coltrane,
Paul Schneider and Carter Fussell.

Payable Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50) to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Social affiliation normally offers full eating and social privileges but does not include participation in chapter meetings or ceremonies.

Computer Speeds Registration, Stores Information On Students

By ROBERT PYEATT
Assistant Managing Editor

Computer registration is the beginning of an eventual completely computerized college information system. The computer in Chambers basement can be
used to speed information handling and more efficiently determine averages, make out grade reports, and a number of other possible
uses, said Associate Dean of the Faculty Jay H. Ostwalt.

Using the computer in registration this year speeded the process, he said. Those who had no changes to make from
the courses they signed up for at the end of last semester moved quickly after waiting through the lines. Juniors
were finished by 10:30 a.m. Tuesday and seniors by 4 p.m.

Under the new system faculty advisers were available for consultation in Chambers basement throughout the registration period. “We hope it
will make possible a great deal more personal contact with students who need help. It will speed up the mechanical
and administrative aspects of registration,” Ostwalt explained.

Changes made by students have kept the registrar's office busy until 3 a.m. Wednesday morning and until after midnight Wednesday.
Ostwalt estimated that over 30 percent of the upperclassmen made changes in their previously arranged schedules. Even on Wednesday, the
first day of classes, 48 changes were made. Each such change requires repunching six to eight computer cards.

“Another situation that caused a number of schedul-

Driesell (Continued From Page One)

the restaurant could create jobs for a couple of students as well. Driesell also pointed out that in his experience
with basketball recruits, “If they want something to eat at night, you've got to take them all the way to
Charlotte.”

Mrs. Margaret Pratt, the present operator of the College Restaurant, said that negotiations for the sale had been going on
for the past month. She indicated that Driesell had made a “good offer” for the building and gave that as
one of the reasons for her wanting to sell the restaurant. Mrs. Pratt also said that her husband was nearing
retirement age. “I'd like to be able to retire too,” she said. Mrs. Pratt has worked at the College Restaurant
for the past five years.

13 Richardson Scholars Exhibit Variety Of Pasts

Representing 11 different countries, Davidson's 13 Richardson Scholars present a diversity of interests and aims. Naim Ahmed, 20, is from
Karachi, Pakistan, and studied under Davidson's Dr. Charles E. Ratliff Jr. when he taught at Forman Christian College in Pakistan.
Britisher Simon Bell, 18, worked and hitchhiked his way across Canada during the summer. Alfonso Carillo, 21, and “Bolo” Bolanos,
23, are both from Quito, Ecuador. Carillo and Bolanos are members of Project of the Americas. George Berner, 19, comes
from Helsinki, Finland, and is an avid tennis player. Jean-Pierre Chambre, 26, who comes to Davidson from Montpellier, France, was
born in Algeria and has also lived in the United States and in Switzerland. Eckhard Grimm, 24, has done some
hitchhiking outside his native Germany in Wales, Scotland, and England.

Davidson has two Richardson Scholars from Japan — Norihiko Itshikawa, 20, of Kobe, and Mamoru Ikeda, 23, from Shikoku. Finn
Skagestad, 20, is from Skotsley, Norway. He is planning to study English, political science and American history while in the
United States. Lennart Voog, 19, a science major, is from Vanersborg, Sweden. Two Richardson Scholars have not yet arrived at
Davidson. Michael Peltenburg-Brechnett, 19, who is from Basel, Switzerland, is scheduled to arrive soon.-uled to arrive today. Luigi Carlo Simonelli,
20, from Mysore, India, is expected to arrive shortly. All Richardson Scholars except Peltenburg - Brechnett (England), Jean-Pierre NEW RICHARDS
Front row, from the left, Simon Bell Chambre (France), Naim Ahmed (Pakistan), and Norihiko Ishikawa (Japan). Back row, are now
eating at fraternity houses. However, under an Interfraternity Council plan, Richardson Scholars will rotate around the fraternity court and will
have a chance to eat at several fraternity houses and at the College Union. One of the scheduling problems was
that I mistakenly failed to allow an extra period, six days a week, for Humanities 11 F, which meets third
period,” Ostwalt said. The computer engineered conflicts for the 16 members of the class. “I'm not griping. I think it
moved fast and was well done,” commented Ostwalt. “There is room for a great deal of improvement.” All the changes
made at registration by sophomores and juniors were completed and the cards repunched and reshuffled by noon Tuesday. Then these
were run through the computer to check for conflicts. One modification to permit more than eight scheduling entries is needed
in the computer program, Ostwalt said. Labs, drill, and physical education also count as separate entries in addition to courses.
Some students’ schedules required more than eight entries. On students’ changing courses, Ostwalt pointed out that Davidson has a very
liberal policy. “Most schools, even small colleges, only allow two or three days to change courses while we allow two
weeks,” he said.

‘Fantastic’ Student Life Impresses Ecuadorian
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

“Fantastic the life of students here—they enjoy ten times more than in Ecuador,” according to Marcelo Saa’m, an Ecuadorian student
who is at Davidson under the sponsorship of the Project of the Americas (PRAM). “There is more to enjoy—like girls,”
he explained, and added that he was very much in favor of more girls for Davidson. Commenting on his stay
at Davidson, Saa’m expressed disillusionment with his accommodations, a sleeping bag in the basement of Richardson. “They promised me I
was going to find a room,” he said, “but nothing!” “The girls—I was most impressed with the girls—fantastic!” he answered
when asked about what in the United States most impressed him. “The girls here are more sincere because we can
talk about everything, almost,” he said. He explained that they have no prejudice, that he could talk to them like
a good friend. In Ecuador, all dating is serious, and a girl may be lucky to have three dates before
marriage. Saa’m was one of nine students from Ecuador to make a month-long tour of the eastern United States last
month under the sponsorship of PRAM and is writing a paper on the use of addicting drugs on college campuses
in the U.S. But he was quick to point out that he did not consider Davidson a problem-center in drug
addiction but had come here to do the reading necessary for the paper. Saa’m also said that the problem was
negligible in Ecuador. Union food, Saa’m commented, was delicious, but “not enough.” Told that Davidson students frequently protested the food,
he seemed surprised and said that people in Ecuador were dying from lack of food. “I like very much Hattie’s,
and the weekends, because I can go to Greensboro or Queens,” he continued. Saa’m will be at Davidson until about
Oct. 10, but says that he hopes he will not spend the whole time in the sleeping bag.

MARCELO SAA’M
Ecuadorian Student Sponsored By PRAM

Nine Pramistas Tour America
Nine students from Ecuador have just completed a month-long tour of the eastern United States under the sponsorship of the
Project of the Americas (PRAM), which is headquartered at Davidson. The trip, which began in Miami, Fla., Aug. 10, included
visits to Atlanta, several towns in North Carolina, Washington, New York, and the beach. According to tour director Chip Vogan,
“This year's group was more responsive than such a group ever has been in the past.” All the students on
the tour were required to write term papers on a subject dealing in some way with the United States, but
the topics ranged from cybernetics to addicting drugs and their use. During the trip, the group met with Georgia Gov.
Lester Maddox in Atlanta, Secretary of State Dean Rusk in Washington, several city officials in Winston Salem, and various members
of the U.S. Department of State. PRAM, which was founded in 1964 at Davidson by Fred Ehlers, a Richardson Scholar
from Ecuador, sponsors these tours to improve communication and relations between the people of South America and the United States.
The tour was set up under the supervision of Tom Peddicord, a Davidson student who is national director of PRAM.
Julian Prosser and Macky Reavis, also Davidson students, arranged the stays in Atlanta and Winston-Salem, respectively. The group going on
the tour was selected from a list of about 200 applicants and was originally limited to eight members. However, the
student who was ninth on the list, Marcelo Saa’m, decided to pay his own way and accompany the group. Saa’m
is still at Davidson, where he is writing his paper, and will remain until about Oct. 10.

Chambers (Continued From Page One)
The remodeling caused several changes in procedure. Students were allowed to complete summer school work on other campuses due to
the renovation work. Faculty and administration offices were scattered all over campus while the construction continued. Several academic departments have
now been clustered together. The math department has moved to the first three buildings on Jackson Court, with each building
housing two offices and a classroom. The psychology department has moved all its classes to the completely remodeled north basement,
and the Bible Department is also grouped together. In addition to the normal classroom changes, several classes have been converted
to seminar rooms, and two economics classrooms have been redone in amphitheater style. The renovation of Chambers Building is part
of the expansion and remodeling program made possible by the Ford Challenge Grant Program, through which the college will eventually
receive $2.2 million in grants. These grants have also enabled the college to make other changes on the campus. The
100-year-old Philanthropic and Eumenean halls are being remodeled and air-conditioned, and the college laundry is also changed. The laundry entrance
now faces west and new equipment has been added to speed up its operations.
