p The Road to P.E. Piddlings

Recently a band of Davidson “Young Turks” realized the futility of venting their time-worn criticisms against such hallowed bits of Davidsoniana as the ROTC Department, fraternities, and Cop Linker, and turned their barbs to another ivy-choked institution—the physical education program.

Through devious means and a host of influential connections, THE DAVIDSONIAN obtained an exclusive interview with an anonymous authority on the physical education department, whose comments proved more than enlightening.

“First I'd like to say,” our source replied, “that in the words of that noted philosopher and thinker Plato, or was it C. W. Stacks, strong mind in a strong body go hand-in-hand. Everybody knows this. The P.E. program builds these strong bodies.”

“Take a typical P.E. course,” he continued. “The fellows go down to the gym, work out, and get lots and lots of exercise. Everyone knows you can really get in shape working out less than an hour at a time every other day.”

“Of course, it would be different if the student just loped along in these classes. But no sir, that’s not the case here. Everyone really works hard. The coaches seem real enthused about the program, organize the classes well, instruct on the fine points of the games, and really take an active interest in the program. Of course, things would be different if these men did not seem so interested.”

“Another good quality of the program here,” he added, “is the way the schedule is so well-organized. At some schools everything is run haphazardly. The classes are too large, and students just come in and goof around for the rest of the period. But not here. Things are different at this school.”

Leaning back in his fat cushioned easy chair, our source pulled out the keys to his Edsel and set them on his desk, between a “Goldwater for President” button and his “We love you, trustees” inkwell. Thumbing through the pages of “The Lefty Driesell Story,” he continued. “Since the program is so well-run and the students benefit so much from it, I think it is only fitting that the department limits the number of free cuts to five. I realize the classes meet three days a week, just like most academic courses, and that the maximum number of P.E. cuts is three less than the maximum cuts allowed in a three-hour subject on the Hill, but I feel this difference is justified.”

When asked to explain his arguments for the justification, our contact quoted at length from the works of Aristotle, Mao Tse-tung, and C. W. Stacks for his premises. Our source saw nothing wrong with withholding a degree from a student who fails to complete the P.E. requirement while the school still offers no academic credit for those worthwhile hours at the gym.

“Physical training has traditionally been a part of a liberal arts background,” he said. “You wouldn’t graduate a candidate who had not completed his science requirement, or his math requirement, or his language requirement. Then why graduate a boy who has failed to complete his P.E. requirement? Surely P.E. is just as important to a college graduate as math or English is. Every well-equipped doctor, lawyer, or businessman needs to know how to wrestle, play handball, and lift weights as much as he needs a knowledge of language or science.”

The source said he is opposed to allowing 11 free cuts in physical education. “Just because students get 11 cuts in every other three-hour course does not mean they should get the same number of absences in this valuable study.”

“If the department allowed 11 free cuts in physical education, most people would cut the limit. If the students were absent 25 percent of the time, they would not gain as much from the body-building exercises. Everyone knows you've got to work out often to get and stay in shape. No one would stay in shape if they loafed one-fourth of the time.”

“Of course, this argument would not be valid if the students were not offered a substantial P.E. course. But since everyone knows the P.E. program here is so vital and worthwhile, we won’t even consider the arguments against the cut situation.”

Setting aside his copy of the “Lefty Driesell Story,” the source picked up “Adventures of a Super-Sid” and continued. “Yessir, we have a first-class program here. The classes are well-organized and small enough so that our enthusiastic coaches can devote all their time to training these students in physical training and games. The students can get much from them in the way of physical training and instruction.”

“It’s perfectly logical that the classes meet three times a week and allow only five free cuts, and that P.E. should be a requirement for graduation. Why in the words of C. W. Stacks...”

“Of course, if all these things were not true, I'd say there might be some call for change, like maybe enlarging the number of free cuts or maybe offering some academic credit as long as the students have to go to the classes anyway. But no siree, there’s nothing wrong with our program here. We have a first-rate setup. We have a fine, fine P.E. program—here at Elon.”

Gunners Tackle Tough Keydets

The Wildcat rifle team resumed its schedule this afternoon in a match with VMI at Lexington, Va. Hoping to stage a strong close in anticipation of the Southern Conference tournament in March, the team has exhibited marked improvement throughout the season.

S/Sgt. Raymond Clark pointed out that the team’s performance has improved in every succeeding match this season, from 1166 in their first meet to 1266 in their last. Sgt. Clark said that the overall team proficiency has risen 60 percent and that a 1290 score out of a possible 1500 should be possible by the end of the season.

The team is seeking to find a replacement for junior Art Abplanalp, who is participating in the Washington semester, Clark noted. On the bright side, Frank Powell and Walter Estes have continued their excellent performances. After 14 matches and a possible 4200 points, Estes has fired a 3570 while Powell trails closely with 3543.

Next weekend the team is engaged in a home and home match against Presbyterian. On Feb. 17 the Western Carolina Conference matches will provide an added test before the N.C. State Invitational and Southern Conference meet.

MIDSEASON STARTER O’Neill Clinches Top Slot

By DON SEWELL Sports Writer

Mike O'Neill's story as a Wildcat hoopster this season has been one of success. The 6-5 sophomore forward had to wait until the middle of the season, the Fordham game in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament, for the chance to show what he could do as a regular. In that game, his first start, O'Neill netted 19 big points. It was a fitting start to an ever-lengthening string of outstanding performances.

Coach Lefty Driesell found his ‘Cats faltering in late December. He decided that a shake-up of the starting lineup might provide the change that could pull his team through the close ones. O'Neill was working hard in practice sessions, really intent on breaking into the first five. Driesell decided that O'Neill had filled a place on the bench long enough so he gave him his chance.

“I was really trying hard in practice all through the first weeks of the season. The longer I was used as a substitute the more I worked, trying to earn that starting spot,” O'Neill said.

His first start was impressive enough for him to retain his place in the lineup. After the Fordham game, O'Neill added two nine-point performances against Virginia and Richmond. Then came the...

Hetzel’s Early Points Pad Warriors’ Western Waltz

By YATES FAISON Assistant Sports Editor

GREENSBORO — Fred Hetzel has been playing more and enjoying it in direct proportion to his increased duties as a San Francisco Warrior. And the secret of his newly-found success may be the result of a movie and a diet.

Hetzel has been used this year by Warrior Coach Bill Sharman mainly as a first- and third-quarter starter, alternating his overall forward duties with Tom Meschery. Hetzel explains this by citing his ability this year to score early.

“Early in the game,” he said after Monday night’s game with the Boston Celtics here, “we try to get the better early scorers to contribute their points at the start and then count on Rick (Barry) to do the scoring as the game goes on.”

The value of the movie was apparent about two weeks ago when Hetzel and the Warrior coaches noticed something he had been doing wrong. “I found,” said Hetzel, “that I was pushing the ball, not getting enough backspin on it. Also, I discovered I was not getting enough arch on my shots.” Since that time Hetzel has hit over 50 percent of his attempted shots.

Hetzel was extremely disappointed...that he could not be a first of his. Two spectacular games against West Virginia. In the first, played in Charlotte, O'Neill dazzled both the fans and his Mountaineer opponents with his soft touch from the floor, his rebounding, and his foul shooting. When the tension of the double overtime game finally lifted, the sizzling sophomore had 28 points, including 12 of 13 from the free throw line, and his Wildcats had edged out WVU. He followed this game with strong performances against The Citadel, VPI, and Wake Forest, ringing up 13, 11, and 22 points respectively. The games set the stage for his return engagement with West Virginia. Playing on the Morgantown hardwoods, which he described as the roughest court he had ever played on, O'Neill made the game an encore of his first performance. This time he was eight for eight from the line, and again he scored a scorching 28 points. His ‘Cats were on the short end of the score, but with O'Neill's help, they nearly engineered a great comeback. The final score was 86-83, but no one who saw or heard the game could help being impressed by O'Neill's coolness and his soft touch. His performances since his first start leave little doubt that he deserves the first team spot completely. Driesell has called O'Neill the best shot on the team this season. He has been living up to this praise by hitting nearly 50 percent of his shots from the floor. His free throw percentage is around the 80 percent mark. O'Neill's smooth and soft shot is beautiful to watch and deadly accurate. He does not amaze people with his speed or his jumping ability, yet he is a real ball hawk and a first-rate rebounder. His teammate Wayne Huckel said, "He is great at blocking out for position on the boards. He gets a lot of rebounds without needing to jump very high." O'Neill leaves little doubt about his defensive ability either. Looking again to his two games against WVU, both games he has guarded Dave Reaser, West Virginia's leading scorer for the season. In the first game, Reaser put in only 10 over the hands of O'Neill, and in their second clash, he was able to net only seven. Since he played several games as a substitute before he began starting, O'Neill's overall average is only 19.8 points per game. But as a starter, his average is over 17 a game, making him a team leader. Another teammate, Dave Moser, said, "Having Mike in the lineup really helps a lot. He adds rebounding strength and gives us improvement all around." Huckel added, "I knew he could prove himself if he got the chance. He gives us an extra outside scoring threat." O'Neill himself commented on the rest of Davidson’s season: "We can beat West Virginia. Our overall record is now such that our goal is to win the Southern Conference tournament defending our championship. I think we will win the tournament."

February 3, 1967 Page Five The Davidsonian

HUDSON KEITH Healthy Matmen Eye Fourth Win By CHARLES ELLIOTT Sports Writer

The Wildcat matmen take on Furman tonight in their fifth match of the season. The ’Cats, having lost only to VMI and owning victories over Duke, UNC, and a surprising St. Andrews team, are 3-1, while Furman is still seeking a victory. The match begins at 8 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Coach Charles Parker said, "We'll have to be stronger and better than we were with St. Andrews, but with a little luck, we should beat Furman. All of our matches have been close. That is, we have won by only five or six points and lost by about the same. Often our last match has been the deciding factor in the match." The "last match" referred to by Parker is the heavyweight division. Big Lowell Bryan has lost only one match this year and does a fine job of grappling with big men from other schools. Parker noted, "You have 639 muscles in your body. You can exercise and develop them for lifelong health and vitality. But there’s so little incentive to exercise now—what with push buttons and sedentary pastimes—that flabbiness begins in early childhood. Yet, more than half of our children do not get at least 15 minutes of planned, vigorous, body-building activity during each school day. What about the physical education program in your child's school? Is it planned mainly for students interested in varsity sports? Or is it geared to the development of average boys and girls—those most in need of physical conditioning? The President's Council on Physical Fitness urges you to take as much interest in this phase of your child's development as you do in his academic development. Work with your school officials and community groups to establish a program that emphasizes vigorous activity daily. Bringing up youngsters with strong, agile bodies is essential to their future—and the future of our country. To help you evaluate the program in your school, the President's Council on Physical Fitness will send you a free booklet. The address is Washington 25, D.C."

Thus far for the ‘Cats, Colin Hudson in the 123 lb. class, Joe Buffington in the 130 lb. class, and Kerry Keith in the 177-lb. class are undefeated. Other men who have done good jobs are Dean Cromartie, Rick Travilla, and Terry O'Hair.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

As the game rolled on, there were increased outbursts of "We want Hetzel." And one of the pities of the situation was that Coach Lefty Driesell and several of the players had made the trip to see Hetzel in action. Asked about how he liked life in the NBA, Hetzel replied tersely, "There are an awful lot of things to see and do in California."

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE'S "Just up the road..."

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas Luncheon and Dinner Specials

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations. Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT Now Operated Under New Management