© The Report

Forecasts Revision

The final form of the faculty constitution will probably be quite different from last month's draft, according to an interim
report received by the faculty on Tuesday. Apparently, the old draft is being changed because of criticisms by representatives from
the board. Representatives are President of the Board Walter L. Lingle, Dr. Warner L. Hall, and William F. Mulliss.

The Faculty Constitution Committee still plans to have an approved draft ready for the meeting of the trustees in May,
according to Dr. Alan A. Brinkley, the committee chairman. The committee hopes to secure this week the approval of the
trustees’ representatives. If necessary, another meeting of the trustees’ representatives and the Faculty Constitution Committee will be held next Tuesday.
Once the approval of the trustees’ representatives is obtained, a series of open meetings for faculty members will be scheduled
for the remainder of this month. At the end of April, a special faculty meeting would be called. Approval by
three-fourths of the faculty members present would be required for passage. The first formal reading of the draft by the
trustees would occur at the May meeting of the trustees. Formal approval would be postponed until the October meeting. If
the draft passes both readings, it is expected to be put into effect on a two-year trial basis.

Drinking in relation to the individual and in relation to the college was the subject of a two-night symposium held
at the Union April 5-6. Dr. Samuel Hill, chairman of the Department of Religion at U.N.C., and Joseph Kellerman, head
of the Charlotte Alcoholic Rehabilitation Center, led the discussion on Wednesday night. Dr. Hill presented drinking as a problem of
personal, not private ethics. “Drinking does not concern only the individual. Rather, it has a direct influence on his friends
and the group of which he is a part. Alcohol provides the ‘oil of conversation’.” Kellerman, the second speaker, emphasized
the fact that ages 18-22 is “the most sensitive period for the formation of an addiction. The problem of how
and where alcohol is sold is almost irrelevant. Of most importance is alcoholism as an illness.” “Six and one-half million
Americans are alcoholics. This disease, masked by other illnesses, leads to death if not checked in time,” he added.

Discussing the problem of alcohol at Davidson on Thursday night, Robert Davenport, dean of students at St. Andrews, said that
“the importance of an institution’s rules is not the public image, but the education of students.” “It is safe to
assume that most students drink, many starting before they enter college. Rules concerning drinking should benefit both the student who
needs sheltering and the student who needs ‘elbow room’.”

Approximately 20 Davidson students participated in a rally and demonstration in Charlotte Wednesday in support of attempts to organize unions
in textile mills in the Carolinas. As part of about 200 demonstrators, the students protested the firing of 105 workers
from J. P. Stevens Company textile mills for alleged union organizing activities. The Textile Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO, planned
the action. The case has been in litigation before the National Labor Relations Board for over three years. Two representatives
from the Southern Student Organizing Committee came to Davidson to elicit student support for the attempts to unionize. Marvin Sparrow
and Roger Ward organized the Davidson contingent. The demonstrators began in front of the City Club on South Tryon Street
in Charlotte and marched five blocks up Tryon Street, then back down Tryon to Trade Street. The demonstration ended with
a meeting in the White House Inn. Marchers carried signs with slogans castigating the Stevens Company. Stevens officials had originally
planned a management meeting in the City Club for Wednesday afternoon, but it was canceled. “We all very much appreciate
these college students and their efforts in support of these workers,” Bill Holder, president of the Charlotte Labor Council, said.

Lesesne Reflects On Year's Work

Lesesne: Editorship Changes

The Editor Louis Lesesne, the latest addition to the ranks of former DAVIDSONIAN editors, characterized the job as “frustrating, but
satisfying and worthwhile.” “The main problem is just not having time to be creative,” Lesesne said. He would have liked
to have had “more analytic stories that delve into issues.”

The editorship changes the editor, he commented, because “it forces you to be more aware of what's going on. You
do a lot of reading which I don’t think you would ordinarily do.” His major complaint was the rush with
which the paper is published. “There's never a let-up. That makes it sort of difficult to get the quality you
want because you're so pushed,” he added.

Asked about complaints that the newspaper did not represent the students, Lesesne replied that he didn't think that his viewpoint
had represented a consensus of the student body, but that this was not to be expected. “The student body through
Letters to the Editor has a voice. The editorial policy of a paper is set by the editor, not the
readers. The editor is elected to set policy,” he said. “Just because it's ‘The News And Editorial Voice Of The
Davidson College Student Body’ doesn’t mean it's supposed to represent a consensus of the student body,” he added.

Lesesne thought that what he had accomplished for the college was “to raise some issues, to stimulate discussion.” “The participation
(of students on THE DAVIDSONIAN) to me is astounding,” he said, “because Davidson actually has nothing to encourage students to
work on a newspaper, like a journalism department. It amazes me the number of people who have professional experience.” “It’s
a sobering job,” he continued. “Even when you take so-called extreme stands, there's a lot of pressure to be responsible.”

Davidsonian Rates ‘All-American’ Rank

THE DAVIDSONIAN has been awarded the highest rating available from the Associated Collegiate Press which ranks college newspapers from across
the U.S. In giving the All-American rating, the ACP stated, “All-American honor rating represents a ‘Superior’ rating and is reserved
for the top publications.” The rating which was given for the issues for the first semester of this school year
marked the 10th consecutive semester that THE DAVIDSONIAN has won the award. On a scale demanding 3,700 points for an
All-American rating, THE DAVIDSONIAN scored 3,940. Full coverage of news leads, depthful reporting on both news pages and on the
feature page, and news feature stories were among the areas commended by the ACP. The ACP also praised the layout
of news and sports pages and noted the colorful vocabulary of feature headlines.

Martin Readying Reply To Student Proposals

President D. Grier Martin is currently formulating a reply to the “Brown Ground” report, an open letter of proposed improvements
for the college. Martin said that he began dictating a reply several weeks ago, but because of other pressing matters,
he has not formed his response into what he considers to be an appropriate reply.At the meeting afterward, the Davidson
students also received a standing ovation from the other demonstrators. “This shows that not all students are apathetic about conditions
beyond the ivory tower of college and some are willing to do something about it,” Sparrow said. “Support for textile
unions is one way students can help to build the ‘New South.’” SSOC has been active in organizing students to
aid labor in North Carolina previously with the Cone Mills demonstrations. Its center is Chapel Hill. Jim Pierce, organizing director
of the Textile Workers Union of America, said, “I am very proud of these students coming out to support us
and saying that these workers have rights they are not getting.” The demonstration was punctuated by occasional heckling, part of
which was directed specifically toward the students. Davidson was the only college represented. One woman demonstrator told of being fired
from the job she had held 12 years half an hour after she arrived at work wearing a button in
support of union efforts. A man told of being fired after over 50 years in the same mill for union
organizing activities. “I'm very glad that these college students are showing support for these people who are trying to improve
their working conditions,” said Nick Zarich, director of the Industrial Union Department of the AFL-CIO. The demonstrators distributed handbills explaining
the circumstances surrounding the firing of the workers for union activities and giving the state of current litigation.

REPORT EXAMINES DORMITORIES (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Committee Chooses 12 For Leadership

The Richardson Foundation and members of the faculty selection committee completed selection of 12 freshmen to participate in the Richardson
Fellows Program at Davidson during the weekend of March 31 at Hound Ears Lodge in Blowing Rock. The selected students
are: Franklin Anderson, Memphis, Tenn.; Pat Bray, Franklin, Tenn.; Ken Crews, Oklahoma City, Okla.; Ed Dannelly, Andalusia, Ala.; George Hannen,
Durham, and Gary Henschen, Fayetteville. Also selected are Joe Kilpatrick, Short Hills, N.J.; Jim May, Atlanta, Ga.; Whit Morrow, Albemarle;
George Penick, Chapel Hill; David Troxler, Salisbury; and John Zaharov, Richmond, Va.

The groundwork for the program was laid early this year. The Richardson Foundation, which operates from Greensboro, committed itself for
the investment of $12,000 and $20,000 in local leadership projects, selected and carried out by program fellows, and in summer
travel. In instigating the program, a systematic examination of certain information was made for each member of the freshman class.
This included grade point average for the first semester, college board scores, hall counselor rating, faculty recommendations, and high school
activities which were thought to reveal leadership. From this information, 67 promising freshmen who met certain minimum requirements were chosen
to receive a letter of information and an application form. Thirty-one of these freshmen applied for the program by submitting
two 400-500 word essays on assigned topics. Of these 31 boys, there were 22 selected by the faculty members of
the Richardson Fellows Committee to attend a weekend retreat for interviews and for extensive personal contact with a group of
North Carolina men, all of whom are experienced in the recognition of leadership qualities.

Businessmen and professional men in this group were Dean Les Rollins, former head of the Harvard Business School; Dick Spangler,
head of Spangler Realty Co. in Charlotte; Gene Looper, senior vice president of Wachovia Bank; Hugh Cannon, Terry Sanford’s law
partner in Raleigh; Rev. John Evans, a director of higher education of the Presbyterian Church and a full-time director of
the Richardson Foundation of Greensboro. These men and the 31 students met with the Davidson committee, composed of Dr. Charles
Ratliff, Dr. W. A. Workman, and Dr. Locke White. During the three-day retreat, the 11 men had the opportunity to
evaluate the students in various aspects of life as well as reviewing a composite folder on each applicant. The retreat
included formal interviews, discussions, seminars, and informal talk during meals.

In discussing the weekend, George Penick said, “It was a most exciting adventure because it offered contact with people in
high offices and let you see what they were like and what you needed to do to achieve their success.
It was a fantastic view of leadership!” Franklin Anderson said, “It was stimulating to say the least. A lot of
the fellows were a bit skeptical of the idea when they attended, but by the end of the weekend everyone
saw the potential value of the program and really wanted to be chosen. I was impressed with the men who
were leaders because they were effective in stimulating us to be leaders.”

Program Guidelines Drawn Up

By CARTER FUSSELL
Staff Writer

Early this year, the Richardson Foundation of Greensboro appropriated between $12,000 and $20,000 as an annual allotment for Davidson College
to set up a Richardson Fellows Program here. The program is a three-year experimental project for developing leadership among members
of the freshman class. The idea for such a program came to the Richardson Foundation and to Davidson from Ohio
University where an Ohio Fellows Program was established in 1964 by the Richardson King Mellon Charitable Trusts of Pittsburgh, Pa.
The foundation and Ohio University believed that “qualified men and women must be identified at an early stage of the
college experience and then attracted to positions of public responsibility.” The program at Davidson will be patterned after the broad
outlines of the Ohio program but will be adapted to Davidson's own situation and to the unique needs here.

Homer Smith, head football coach, was named director of the local program. A Davidson Fellows Committee was formed with professors
Charles Ratliff, Locke White, and W. G. Workman and students Mike Mooty, Kirk Reed, and Ray Stringfield. The leadership program
will join students concerned about the injustices suffered.

Sparrow remarked that “We textile workers in the South are out of the ivory tower.”
