COOK LAUNCHES P. E. EXAMINATION DAVIDSONIAN STAFF GOES JUNKETEERING (See Page Five) VOL. LV!

Giant U. S. Flag Stirs Criticism

A giant United States flag sitting on the stage before the Wednesday address of Ambassador Alexi Stepunin has brought a harsh condemnation from Student Body President Chuck Matthews. "This was such a childish action of poor judgment as to be almost unbelievable," Matthews said. "This entirely pointless indiscretion not only makes fools out of the super patriots who did it but also out of Davidson College." Joe Heard, who was responsible for hanging the flag, said it was "to show that there is still something inappropriate about honoring an official representative of a government which is presently supporting and supplying arms to a movement which is killing Americans." People have the right to believe that themselves, Matthews continued, but not the student body or the college. "The irony in the incident is that the group responsible for this has been given more than their share of chapel periods," he pointed out that no flags representing the Soviets, Chinese, or National Liberation Front of Vietnam have been displayed. "The whole incident makes one wonder how serious such people are about preserving individual freedoms in our country when they have no hesitation about abusing the freedom of others," he said.

At a meeting Wednesday night, the local Young Republicans agreed to pay up to $50 for a United States flag to be displayed at the student center, and the Union overwhelmingly defeated a motion to disassociate any connection with the action. The Soviet Embassy in Washington, D.C., began a three-day stay on campus Wednesday as the year's first YMCA Great Issues Speaker. Having "The Russian Revolution" as his main topic, Stepunin spoke in chapel on Wednesday and today, and was featured in a coffee hour Wednesday afternoon.

Pride, Hope For Peace Manifested By Soviet

By Jim Cooley
Staff Writer

Pride in Soviet accomplishments in the 50 years since the Russian Revolution and the hope for peaceful coexistence are manifested in the words of Soviet Alexi Stepunin to Davidson students this week. Stepunin, the First Secretary of the Cultural Office of the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D.C., began a three-day stay on campus Wednesday as the year's first YMCA Great Issues Speaker. Having "The Russian Revolution" as his main topic, Stepunin spoke in chapel on Wednesday and today, and was featured in a coffee hour Wednesday afternoon.

Stepunin Offers Views On Khrushchev, China

While on campus for the past three days, Soviet representative Alexi Stepunin analyzed several political developments from the Soviet point of view. In offering an explanation for the dismissal of Premier Khrushchev, Stepunin emphasized the former premier's many actions and ideas which were not fully thought out. "I know that Khrushchev was a very emotional man," Stepunin said. "What he thought was a good idea, he would force upon others. He would not think his actions through and so many of his measures were..."

By John Williams
Staff Writer

The "Hungry I," Davidson's equivalent of a night club, opened up this week for the first time this semester, featuring folk singer Jake Holmes Friday night. The Morrison Room was completely redecorated to give the atmosphere of a night club, but it was run under a coffee house format, in which the $1 cover charge includes hors d'oeuvres and drinks. Food can be ordered at the tables, and decor is informal. Holmes is a folk singer with a very unusual style. His themes and his rhythms are quite varied. As Holmes sang, "My music comes straight from the heart." One example of his...

...planning, Stepunin continued, was the scheme to separate the peasants from the workers. Stepunin added that in the future the Soviet Union would prevent the head of the government from also being the head of the party. He also noted that the current difficulties with China were not decisive in current dealings with the United States. He said that the Vietnamese war was impeding progress in our friendly relations with Russia but opined that a sudden withdrawal by the United States would be difficult.

SPEAKING WITH A DIALECTIC

Soviet's Talk Hindered By Language And Dogma

...Thursday night, attended and spoke in several classes and generally made himself available to students. In chapel Wednesday, Stepunin presented the historical outlines of the development of Russia since the revolution. Stepunin noted that 1967 marks the fiftieth year of the existence of the Soviet Union, whose birthdate he gave as November 7, 1917. The Bolshevik Republic was established, he contended, because of the failure of the provisional government, which he referred to as "bourgeois" and as an "armed dictatorship," to fulfill its promises of peace, land, and bread. The Bolsheviks, faced with a decision between allowing the victory of the provisional government and armed revolution against it, chose the latter. Strikes and demonstrations led by the Party showed the "strong revolutionary spirit of the proletariat," party membership growing from around 240,000 to over half a million. After special "Red Guard" forces began spreading propaganda through the ranks of soldiers and peasants, the provisional government tried to destroy the movement. Although Lenin was forced to...

LONG HAIR MUSIC

Holmes' Compositions Ranged From Simple Folk To Psychedelic

Hungry I Opening Features Folk Singer, 3 Silent Movies

...songs are observations about life the way I see it. Most of them pertain to girls, though." In addition to Holmes, the Hungry I is also featuring three silent movies shown at the same time on different walls, creating an unusual effect. The walls are also decorated with abstract pictures and strange signs. The Hungry I will be open tonight and Saturday night for those who have not yet seen the show. Reservations will be taken at the Union desk. Some of his songs are funny, while others are quite sad. They are all filled with essential images and catchy phrases. He utilizes them greatly with appropriate facial expressions. He is alone a fine entertainer and comedian. One of the most unique things about Holmes is that he writes all his songs himself. He has written several poems and short stories too but has not published them. His latest single record has just appeared on the Capitol label and is entitled "You Can't Get Love Unless You Give It." He says he is working on a new album with the hopes to release it in a few months or for next year. Holmes' group includes Hank Blundell from New York on bass and Ted Lewis from Washington on guitar. Holmes said the group was assembled when he was starring at the Bitter End in Greenwich Village. He graduated from a prep...

Bolsheviks eventually overthrew... (See Page Three)

Fraternity Accepts First Negro Pledge

NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Board Of Trustees

Another Davidson tradition expired last weekend when a Negro crashed into the previously all-white fraternity system. The Negro student, a freshman, was one of 188 students pledging into one of the college's 12 fraternities. His pledging climaxed a series of changes in both outlook and policy in the Davidson system since the Civil War. The first Negro pledge in Davidson’s history also received bids from two other fraternities. The other Negro in the freshman class did not go through rush. Action by the Board of Trustees in April 1966 called for the abolition of any existing discrimination clauses in the charters of the local chapters. The Trustee's edict first went into effect last September. Ten of the local chapters have fulfilled the requirements, and the other two have been granted waivers to bid Negroes by their national offices, which still maintain "white clauses."

Information Said By Bruce Weihe
Staff Writer

Peter Halyburton, a 1965 graduate of Davidson who was reported killed in action while a Navy pilot over Vietnam on August 26, 1965, is not dead. That announcement, which shocked the Davidson community, the Defense Department said recently received. Halyburton is...First school in the state to drop discriminatory barriers. Vietnam. Halyburton & one of these Americans while stationed. Similar steps are now being taken by other colleges and fraternities across the state and nation, according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts. The government and team creating a new state. The new government's first act was what Steputan called the establishment of a “democratic power” with Germany and running, and Davidson is in that tide. The dividing of the land among the peasants, a counter-revolutionary movement led to civil war which lasted until 1927 but, despite a weakness and the invasion of several foreign countries including the United States, the young republic was victorious. In addition to industrial growth, Steputan listed the Soviets' high employment rate, free medical care, free education, and numerous civic achievements as the remains of “socialism.” This growth was all the more remarkable, he explained, because of the many years of civil war and world conflict in which the USSR has been engaged since 1917. He noted that the agricultural picture looked much better in 1966, and that the Communist failure in this area in the past was due primarily to relatively unfavorable climatic conditions in comparison with the United States. (Star Photos by Olson)

School in New York and began playing music when he was 10. He also studied music at Hofstra, Juilliard, and Bennington. At Bennington, he was the only male student and lived in the basement of a girls’ dormitory for a year. He is currently on a tour of southern schools. “The South is different,” he said, “and I'd be lying if I didn't say I like the North better. People act differently, dress differently, and have completely different backgrounds in the South. I find them harder to get to know.” When asked what he thought of Davidson College, his immediate comment was “It's fine, but where are the girls?”

Freshmen Accept Bids As Rush Week is intended to promote clarity. This is the first year that rush has been delayed until the second semester. Last year fraternity rush parties were held on several weekends during the first semester and accepted bids were returned by mail during the Christmas holidays. In previous years, rush week had been the first week of the fall semester. IFC representative Bill Rikard suggested that “the real merits in the deferred rush will probably be seen in higher freshman grades, less de-pledging, less dirty rushing, and a greater degree of satisfaction among freshmen that they made the proper choice in a fraternity.”

FEB. 27 By DANNY COLTRANE Staff Writer Approximately 72 percent of the Freshman Class ended this year's rush week by pledging a fraternity last Friday. Of the 234 freshmen receiving bids from fraternities, 169 accepted their bids, a percentage that represented an increase above the 70 percent who pledged last year. Those who did not accept their bids by 6 p.m. on Feb. 3 are ineligible to receive another bid until April 1. Most of the fraternities held pledging ceremonies either Friday or Saturday. Freshmen will continue to eat in the College Union during the second semester, a policy which $65,000 Goal Set By PRAM By GILL GRAHAM Staff Writer The Project of the Americans in response to the requests of has set the annual goal for its national drive at $65,000, more than tripling last year's total. In 1966 PRAM raised a budget of $20,000. The budget for 1967 has been set for $65,000. Tom Allan, national director of PRAM, attributes the big jump to the rapid expansion of PRAM's chapters and a more efficient organization. With the fund drive only in its incipient stages, four foundations have already contributed $2,490 to the project. In addition, staff members in Boston and Washington, D.C., are following up contacts with over 50 foundations in those areas. Tom Peddicord, a Davidson junior spending the Washington semester at American University, is inaugurating a research project called the Council for Latin America. This is an organization of all major American companies which have business interests in Latin America and would benefit from PRAM's work.

The Davidson fund drive committee, composed of Tom Allan and Leslie Brown, is contacting numerous private enterprises in the United States. Letters have been sent out containing information on PRAM and asking to be considered for donations. Barricades and ropes appeared around the College Presbyterian Church this week as a fence was placed around the steeple located on the edge of the court. The barricades were designed to keep passersby away from the area until the steeple could be repaired. Of course, they also kept anyone from entering the front door of the church. (Staff Photo by Lisa)

Rikard added that a committee has been set up to evaluate and, if necessary, revise the entire rush system. Gun Cochran, also an IFC representative, favored this year's rush system over those of previous years and cited the weeknight rush parties as opposed to those which tie up a number of weekends in the fall as a definite improvement over last year’s system. Cochran felt that “there is more unity among the freshman class and the average freshman knew better what he was looking for in a fraternity.” He indicated that the system used this year made it harder for upperclassmen to get to know freshmen.

Election Set For Social Council Leaders

In response to the necessity of early nominating and planning in both offices was the reason for setting the time for the elections. The motion established a fixed date for the election in the future, setting up the election for the second Monday following first.

Paved Way In 1965 Lost Pilot Alive

Professor of biology and geography. He attended Staunton Military Institute before studying at Davidson. Halyburton had been on a mission before his F4C Phantom jet fighter was shot down by anti-aircraft fire. A witness of the action reported that he saw the plane hit, followed five seconds later by an explosion which totally destroyed the aircraft. The Defense Department would not issue any information concerning how they received the report or details on the condition of Halyburton. It was revealed by reliable sources that Halyburton had been seen alive earlier last year and again in December “singing Christmas carols.” Earlier this week, the wife of Lt. Col. Robert B. Foreman of Wilmington, Del., received a letter from her husband, another of the three pilots now presumed alive in North Vietnam. Halyburton's wife, the former Martha Duerson of Decatur, Ga., stated that she had received no letters from her husband but was informed by the Defense Department that a letter may be coming soon. Halyburton's mother, Mrs. Katherine F. Halyburton of Davidson, is in Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte recovering from surgery. Memorial services had been held for Halyburton in October 1965, at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church in Davidson after he was reported dead. A memorial portrait of him was dedicated at the fraternity, Pi Gamma Delta, at Davidson last fall, and a memorial volume of paintings was contributed to the Davidson College library in his honor. Also, a memorial was erected in his name at his alma mater, Staunton Military Institute. Union, Mid-Winter. Fraternal abstract asked the council to approve rules for a student referendum over mandatory student fees to ensure put semester for couple fees. Such a referendum will be rescheduled in the near future.

OUT OF HARM'S WAY

Kept passersby away from campus until the steeple could be repaired. Of course, they also kept anyone from entering the front door of the church. (Staff Photo by Lisa)