Page Six April 28, 1967

3 Writers In 1 Day

The Davidsonian

Green Relates Credo, Art Form

By MAC HOBBY
Staff Writer

Reynolds lecturer Paul Green set forth the development and function of the outdoor drama as an art form Tuesday night at Hodson Hall. Green, who has taught at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill where he still lives, is a noted novelist, poet, and playwright.

Speaking informally, Green told of his search to find creative outlets for his dramatic talents amid the amoral, mercenary world of stage and screen producers, whom he described as “undertakers.” During this search, which was to culminate in the development of the popular outdoor symphonic drama, the playwright developed his artistic credo.

Green began his talk with this credo. “I believe that there is a principal impetus in mankind toward the creation of a truly beautiful world," he said. “The fine arts are the fire and fervor of life, and this creative impetus, despite its misuses, still stirs within us. The creation of these arts challenges the best in man, but no nation comes of age until they are developed.”

In his narrative, Green explained that he had developed this philosophy and the resultant desire to employ as best he could his talents during the years he spent in Hollywood writing screenplays for such movies as “State Fair.” Green described the anguish he felt as he saw “our people betrayed” by motion picture producers who “sold out” artistic interests for the sake of profit, exploiting “cheap sex, violence, and corruption.”

As an example of this practice, Green related an experience which occurred while he was serving in Japan as a Cultural Ambassador for the Department of State. “I will never forget,” he said, “seeing gangs of teenage boys standing in line to watch class B gangster movies which our companies had sold to Japan with no regard for the effect on our image.”

Continuing with his narrative, Green told of the years after his Hollywood experience when he was writing plays for the New York stage, “watching for a better way.”

New Education Program Reaps Good Response

The student-led Educational Planning Program for high schools has been a tremendous success this year, according to the student organizer for the program, Tom Earnhardt. Earnhardt, commenting on the first year of the new program, said that the results had been “very gratifying.”

“Everywhere we went,” he said, “we received tremendous audience response.” The program, which is designed to inform college-bound high-schoolers on the problems and advantages of a college career, is the product of the careful preparation of Director of Admission H. Edmunds White. Its first trial came early in the school year as three-man student teams visited high schools in North Carolina. After a tremendous initial response from these schools, the program was expanded. At the beginning of the second semester, letters of information about the program were sent out to schools all over the South.

“We feel fortunate to have been invited to as many fine schools as we were on such short notice,” said Earnhardt. Since that time, the four groups have visited high schools as far south as southern Florida, as far north as Washington, D.C., and as far west as Little Rock, Ark. The groups’ travels have taken them over a combined total of 6,000 miles. The response from audiences and the complimentary letters from principals were both full of praise for the students and the programs.

Earnhardt recalls one high school where the three students were approached after the program and requested to teach a speech class on the art of speaking to large groups. There have been many letters received, addressed both to White and Earnhardt. One Florida high school responded with numerous compliments. The letter praised the Davidson students saying, “They were terrific, both in personality and the words of wisdom which they got across to the large group which was spellbound. . . . It is just another proof of what a great college Davidson is.”

A Virginia principal wrote Earnhardt, “The things you had to say had a fresh impact on our seniors who are so used to the voices of their teachers and counselors.”

Although the program itself has nothing to do with Davidson, the effect of the program is helping to build the school’s reputation, according to Earnhardt. He pointed to one letter in which a principal said, “We have always had the highest regard for Davidson and when we listen to such fine young men that image becomes better than ever.”

Creative Details Process

Some poems may take years to write while others require only one draft, according to A. R. Ammons, a former businessman turned poet. “I know when a poem is finished,” said Ammons. “If while I'm reading it I get a queasy feeling, I know it's not complete. But of course, it's one thing to know something is wrong and another to make it right. Sometimes it may take years before I find the right way.”

Ammons, sponsored by the Artist Series, spent Wednesday and Thursday on campus, lecturing and meeting informally with students and faculty members. His campus agenda included a Wednesday night talk in Eu Hall and a Thursday afternoon session with creative writing classes.

Ammons began writing poetry some 20 years ago, “but it was nearly six years before I really ever completed a poem.” He held an executive position in a biological glassware firm from 1952 until 1961. “As a businessman I found I was always tired at the end of the day, but not verbally. My verbal imagination had been at rest and I could write at night.”

Since 1955, he has written five volumes of poetry, the most recent last year under the title Northfield Poems. In addition, he has contributed to a number of periodicals and journals and served as poetry editor of The Nation.

A native of Whiteville, Ammons is on leave from Cornell University for two years on a Guggenheim Fellowship. His two-day stopover here was one in a series he is making for the North Carolina Poetry Circuit.

Although he grew up in the South and attended Wake Forest, “I've lived in the North so long now that I don't even recognize that I don’t speak like everybody else up there. But the closer south I come, the more my southern accent comes back.”

He said that although he had been living out of the state for some 20 years he is still “at least technically a North Carolina poet, even though it may only show in a few of my poems.” When his Guggenheim Fellowship is completed, Ammons plans to take an additional year to continue writing in Rome under the American Academy of Arts and Letters. “I can't teach and write at the same time,” he said. “In the summers I’m never able to find time. And only in the last couple of months have I been able to loosen up. It's my personal way of writing poetry.”

Ammons’ informal but compelling reading of his poetry was well received by the audience.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
EDWARD DWELLE
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ED EMBREE
ROBBIE HOOKER

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
BOB REID

Assistant Sports Editors:
DON SEWELL
DANNY WHITE

Contributors this week:
George Cretekos, Ashley Kline, Ben Garrett, Mark Wingate, John Pancake, John Barber, Dan Graham, Brodie Brown, Mac Hobby, Kem Anderson, John Williams, John Shott, Chuck Schaeffer, Charles Elliott, John Huggins, Bob Stubbs, and Tad Lowdermilk.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036. Phone 892-9305

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Wardlaw Addresses Student Body

Sitting on a bar stool, and emphasizing that he wanted to “speak plainly instead of stained-glassly,” Don Wardlaw addressed the student body yesterday on the topic, “What Is A Man?” Wardlaw, professor of homiletics at Columbia Seminary in Atlanta, used an advertisement for a man’s hand lotion to demonstrate how the “ad men” are playing on the insecurity of the American male regarding his masculinity.

“Man is searching for an identity,” he said, “in the playboy male, the Marlboro male, or in general, the all-male male.” He described this search as a type of “psychological tyranny.” He went on to describe the “American dream male.” His description focused on the “strong, aggressive, take-charge guy.” Man, according to Wardlaw, is searching for an identity in these stereotypes.Poems drew an attentive crowd in Eu Hall Wednesday night. He discussed the ethnic background required to write poetry. “Every poet must be somewhat provincial. A definite background is necessary to ground a poet and give him experience to write from.” He opined that everyone has an individual creative process which is best for him. His personal style is adapted specifically to him and he remarked that his method would probably suit few people.

He decided to employ his talents for the good of mankind. It was then that he first conceived the idea of the outdoor drama, which led to the opening in 1937 of the amphitheater at Manteo where Green’s The Lost Colony is still performed annually. Other dramas soon followed, and now permanent outdoor theaters can be found around the nation. In closing, Green expressed the hope that these theaters and plays, aimed primarily at preserving the national heritage, would be looked upon as “memorials to those who added to life” — America’s religious and historic pioneers. Examples of outdoor drama are Unto These Hills, performed regularly at Cherokee, N.C., and Horn in the West, at Boone.

Green’s talk was supplemented with slides and commentary by Mark Sumner, director of the Institute of Outdoor Drama at UNC. Sumner has worked closely with Green in producing several works. His slides presented various amphitheaters and productions which can be seen throughout the country. Green's lecture was the second of three in the series of Reynolds Lectures, which concludes with the visit of scientist Dr. Jacob Bronowski on May 9. The Reynolds Lectureship Fund was established in 1959 through the resources of the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation. The fund provides for an annual series of distinguished guest authorities in the humanities, sciences, arts, and philosophy. Normally, the lecturer will spend several days at Davidson, presenting both formal and informal talks, and sometimes discussing with students various problems in some particular field of study.

(Staff Photos by Olson)

STILL A CAROLINA POET

Ammons (L) and Herb Jackson has always needed to prove himself. “He needs to know that he drives his destiny and his destiny does not drive him.” He said that the so-called “cool male” is actually intimidated by any type of feeling or sensitivity, and therefore launches a counter-attack. “This cool guy,” he continued, “is afraid that sensitivity is equated with impotence. He therefore cannot be caught expressing any emotional involvement.” Speaking of the “locker room pseudo-masculinity,” he noted a possible cross between virile masculinity and homosexuality in the sense that, actually, in both cases there is a fear of women present. Citing his belief that the playboy dream was nothing more than a dream, he called on the old verse, “God created man, male and female created he them.” The answer to the original question, according to Wardlaw, lies in this verse. “The true man possesses both male and female qualities. He has sensitivity as well as masculinity.” Commenting that “when the crowds are gone, they can let down the mask and stop to ask, ‘What's it all about?’” Wardlaw spoke frankly and casually on the topic of sex. On this topic, he again stressed a reevaluation of masculinity.

Cashion Gulf Service
Complete Auto Service
Open 6:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.

PROFESSIONAL PILOT TRAINING IN JUST 17 WEEKS
Be ready for Airline or Commercial Employment.
Commercial - Instrument - Multi Engine Instructor
* FAA approved Flight & Ground School
* Individual personal attention
* All new equipment and facilities
* Write for free brochure
* Financing available
AVIATION ACADEMY OF NORTH CAROLINA, INC.
Raleigh-Durham Airport
919-833-6656 — Box 200
Morrisville, North Carolina - 27560

POETRY, POLITICS AND LIFE

Spender Draws From His Experiences
Spender: Economic Decay Produces Revolutions, War
By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

Economic decay produced revolutions such as Nazism and Fascism in the Thirties, and a world war, according to British poet Stephen Spender. Spender, who is co-editor of Encounter, spent two days on campus this week discussing poetry, politics, and life in the Thirties. The poet, whose visit here was sponsored by Beta Theta Pi fraternity, addressed the student body Wednesday at chapel. Drawing from his reflections and experiences as both an observer and as a participant in the political affairs of the period, he chronicled the rise of revolutionary movements, and the ensuing war.

The 58-year-old poet commented that the economic breakdown in 1929 “amounted to a collapse of the whole society.” He continued, saying “that the collapse led to a period during which people, as consumers, were forced into buying goods when they could not afford them.” “The economy was suffering,” said Spender, “and needed some type of reconstruction. The system became dependent, as is natural, on an expensive proposition, that of war.” Speaking of Nazism and Fascism, he proposed that Nazism is not “just a revolution.” He said that it had some special features, such as opposition to all intellectual freedom, a program of suppression of literacy, and a type of totalitarian dictatorship. Spender said that the concept of totalitarianism inherent in Nazism was the reason that this movement was so terrifying. “It meant,” Spender continued, “that anyone who gave any opposition could be immediately removed.” In calling Nazism “an extremely wicked system,” he said that “wickedness usually produces martyrs, but Nazism eliminated martyrdom by completely removing and forgetting the possible martyrs.” Spender referred to the period of Nazi domination of Europe as a “nightmarish period of modern society.”

In his short address, Spender demonstrated the comparatively small change in the political systems of the Thirties and the present day. He said that the suppression of opposition in Russia in 1967 is much the same as it has been for the last 50 years.

Seniors To Raffle $40 Gift Certificate
The Senior Class will hold a raffle next Friday in the College Union during chapel period to pay for the Senior Class gift. The purpose of the raffle is to raise $500 to purchase the class’ gift to the school, a mural by Herb Jackson which occupies one wall of the Union Cafeteria. The winner will receive a $40 gift certificate to Rush Wilson. Tickets are one dollar each and can be purchased at the Union desk and from various students. Each person can purchase as many tickets as he wants.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 332-2414

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas
Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets
Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course
The ELK’S Now Operated Under New Management

Tuesday afternoon and evening Spender met with students to read and comment on both his poetry and the poetry of other writers of this century. He visited classes on Tuesday afternoon. During this time he reviewed his works and commented on modern poetry. In speaking on modern poetry, he said that he favored modern American poetry over the English product but went on to say that “one has the feeling of waiting for something much more interesting.” Tuesday night Spender entertained a large group of students who gathered in Eumanean Hall to hear him read his own works. The reading centered around a comparison of his works during his undergraduate days in London and some of his later compositions.

In commenting on U.S. wars and economy, past and present, Spender said that the war economy of the United States during the late Thirties was much the same as the present. This war economy, according to Spender, is “extremely unhealthy, in the sense that it may break down should the war end abruptly.” Davidson was an en route stop for Spender, who is on his way to Northwestern University where he plans to spend six weeks as a visiting professor.

ATTENTION, MEN
Your MAN-Sized Decision: WHAT ABOUT THE DRAFT?
To discuss Alternatives to 1-A Status Contact:
Charlotte Friends Meeting (Quaker)
2039 Vail Ave., 333-3979
Saturdays from Noon ‘til 4 p.m.

GRAND OPENING
Vend-A-Wash
Coin-Operated Self-Service CAR WASH
At our brand-new headquarters, beginning in the latter part of April
Don't miss it! You'll be amazed at the speed, the economy with which you can “clean the coach” and be on your merry way. Handy towel dispenser and heavy-duty vacuum for those finishing touches.
FREE! Gifts & Refreshments
S. Main — Davidson