Che Bavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1967

A Busy Board

Five years ago the action taken today by the Board of Trustees would have been so revolutionary as to be
inconceivable at Davidson. Today the action appears to be just another indication of the improving attitude of all those involved
in the college. Students are likely not to realize the significance of trustee acceptance of the Faculty Constitution, but its
unanimous acceptance by the faculty two weeks ago indicates importance attached to the document by that body. Trustee approval of
the Residence Hall Association is another progressive step that holds great potential for student life although the majority of students
may not be well enough acquainted with the program to appreciate the improvements which it may initiate. The fact that
the trustees were willing to indicate their approval of what is essentially a student-administration program before the plan had been
considered by the faculty displays the confidence which the trustees have in the cooperation between students and the administration. Even
the lack of trustee action on the social affiliation plan reflected the wishes of the main proponents of the program.
It is regrettable that the trustees did not see fit to express any formal opinion of the “college council” idea
that was recently endorsed unanimously in principle by the Student Council. Their stated reasoning for failing to take a formal
stand was that while they did not have an initial objection to the concept, they had not received the proposal
in time to give it any detailed consideration. This time element is one of the two big faults that must
be noted in the meeting of the board today. On campus for less than two days, the trustees faced one
of the heaviest agendas in years. The effects of this crowded schedule are indicated by the less than progressive discussion
last night as the trustees arrived tired from travels. Only as they were able to recover some from this weariness
did they begin to be more open-minded, according to several administrative representatives who worked with them. In light of the
heavy workload which traditionally faces the board at their spring meeting it would seem to be beneficial to the college
that the meeting time be extended for another day. This expanded time would indirectly help correct the other major fault
in the board’s meeting. No real opportunity was given for the trustees to become acquainted with student desires except for
very informal encounters. The control of the board over the lives of students is far too great for them to
be acting without taking time to obtain direct knowledge of the student interests involved.

Student Aid To Labor

“What business do students have in a labor dispute?” is the question a lot of people are asking. The answer:
Plenty. The questions and answers center about the fact that college students throughout this state are being asked to involve
themselves in the struggle of thousands of textile workers to make the voice of Labor heard in North Carolina like
it’s never been heard before. It will probably be a long and bitter fight. But it will be worth it,
for what's involved is the bringing of some members of North Carolina’s textile industry—kicking and screaming, if necessary—across the threshold
of the 20th Century. And it is precisely because it will be a long and bitter fight for high stakes
that students—and indeed, every element of the community—should rally behind the textile workers. We say this fully realizing that there
are a lot of things about the American Labor movement which deserve criticism. And we realize, too, that workers’ strikes
can be rough-and-tumble affairs with no quarter asked---none given. And we also realize that there are many influential elements in
this state with whom the University loses favor each time its students become involved in such matters. But we realize
most of all that bringing effective unionization to the textile workers of this state is one of those things which
transcends expediency. It would be very nice if the textile workers’ grievances could be satisfactorily settled around a bargaining table,
thereby avoiding strikes with their accompanying picket lines and mob psychology and power plays. But this apparently isn’t going to
be the case. It hasn’t been the way it’s worked in the past, and there's little reason to suspect that
the textile mills’ management is going to experience a Cinderella change overnight and begin accepting union demands at the conference
table. So it will probably come down to a strike, that nitty-gritty stage of labor relations during which both sides
flex their muscles and the strongest man wins. And that is why students must join in—to swell the muscles of
the unions and show the textile mills’ management that not only the workers, but the people of North Carolina, too,
are fed up with the way things are being run now.

—Daily Tar Heel, University of North Carolina

A Chance To Grow Up

Difficulties stemming from national opposition to the Interfraternity Council’s social affiliation plan may finally convince old-line fraternity members of the
advantages of a local system for Davidson. This school no longer needs to play the role of the traditional Southern
school with national emblems hanging on the front porch of each house on the court. Fraternities will only be able
to fulfill their complete potential at Davidson when they are freed from the fetters which reach down into Carolina from
national offices. Those fetters do bind Davidson fraternities and limit them to an old-fashioned position on campus. The many improvements
occurring in the Davidson fraternity system have come from within the college, not from national headquarters. A free role on
campus for a fraternity is much more important than the quality of the alumni magazines received by initiates into national
brotherhoods in return for exorbitant initiation fees. That free role cannot come as long as the source of a fraternity’s
strength is at least formally based away from Davidson. One of the campaign slogans tossed around this spring by supporters
of Gus Cochran for IFC president was that he would “make or break the IFC.” Whether or not this was
mere campaign oratory by an over-heated speaker is not the issue. However, the IFC can become the springboard of growth
for the Davidson fraternity system only if fraternities here cut their national apron strings. The capabilities inherent in the present
system were demonstrated in the affiliation plans produced by the IFC. This plan had won acceptance by both Greek and
non-Greek interests. It had won that success because its quality transcended the narrow interests of either and capitalized on the
present necessity of all interests to benefit student life here. At least the affiliation plan had begun to make such
headway. Local fraternities knew the particular situation at Davidson. Their national offices did not. Not all of the national fraternity
headquarters are opposed to the affiliation program, but the majority of them are. Those who have cooperated (in the sense
that they have not complained about the plan) are simply the ones who realize that acquiescence is their only alternative.
This realization is not in itself enough to justify retention of national affiliation. The only effect that such affiliation has
had on the IFC program has been harmful instead of beneficial. The fraternity member who is quoted in THE DAVIDSONIAN
this week is correct in saying that rush is the biggest problem which would result from one or two fraternities
getting rid of their national fetters. This problem evaporates if the whole Davidson system takes this opportunity to wean itself
from an archaic, insensitive system. Those who say that going local means taking a negative step back down into a
limited small college world fail to realize that eliminating national restrictions would in fact give fraternities here the freedom they
need to make their biggest contributions to student life.

ONE LAST SHOT

Graduates Remember Frustration, Not Pride

ED. NOTE: The purpose of “One Last Shot” is to allow students who are not returning to Davidson next year
to express their opinion about the college.

By GREG HAYNES

What can one feel upon graduation from Davidson? Certainly not pride. We're a good school, but not one of the
best. Perhaps nostalgia? No; who can feel nostalgic about compulsory chapel, compulsory Bible, isolation, drinking rules and a frantic, groping
social life? The overwhelming feeling is one of frustration—frustration because the “Davidson Experience” has been good, but could have been
much better. This frustration is manifest in many questions about Davidson—questions which we have been asking for many years. Why
do we have chapel? Why does the college require more hours of Bible than either history or natural science? (i.e.,
is Bible study more important than history or science?) Why is ROTC required? Why are there drinking rules? The questions
could go on and on, and in spite of faculty evaluations, Blue Sky Committees and Student Council studies, we have
received very few satisfactory answers. Perhaps the point is that there are no satisfactory answers to questions like these. It
seems at least significant that the really fine colleges and universities realized this long ago and proceeded to eliminate the
source of each question. However, the frustration of compulsory chapel, Bible, ROTC, etc., has been here as long as the
college itself, and additional complaining seems nearly hopeless. But there are other major sources of this frustration which are not
so hopeless. Davidson is plagued with an atmosphere which often is dubbed “anti-intellectual.” The results of this atmosphere are much
more apparent than its causes. For instance, the times that one comes away from a class feeling genuinely stimulated and
intellectually “hungry” are revealingly few for most of us. This is a major result. Others include distressingly small amounts of
reading unrelated to class, a far-reaching phobia about guest lecturers, and an uncanny ability to completely separate “in-class-time” from “out-of-class
time.” Causes of this atmosphere are a little more difficult to isolate. It is significant that every year seniors graduate
from Davidson who have never been exposed to a difficult course or a demanding professor. Perhaps then the curriculum is
at fault. Very few students talk about what they learned in a course; nearly every student talks about the grades
he made. Perhaps then the system itself is wrong. Or, perhaps many professors have forgotten that part of their job
is to offer us a bit more than a lecture full of facts.Punctuated by yawns. Certainly, these are all partial
causes of a situation which can be corrected. Meanwhile, this atmosphere is a reality and a definite part of the
frustration of a "Davidson Experience."

Other sources of frustration come readily to mind. Many have to do with the curriculum. Why can't "the finest small
college in the South" find a Russian professor? Why are there only two political science professors? How can Davidson offer
a major in a "department" (sociology) composed of a single professor? Why is there only one English seminar per semester?
Perhaps there are answers to these questions, but that doesn’t alleviate the frustration we feel in asking them.

Socially, Davidson will probably always offer four years of frustration. But even here there are factors compounding this frustration which
could be eliminated. Why do we need drinking rules which cannot be enforced with any degree of consistency? Why must
the college continually criticize fraternities without offering some really satisfactory substitutes for what they provide?

There are, finally, what might be called random frustrations involved in the "Davidson Experience." Why can't the bookstore offer an
abundant selection of titles in something other than theology? Why can’t the library be expanded more rapidly? Why does a
comparatively wealthy small college have such poor dormitory facilities?

These "random" frustrations are infinitely numerous and are perhaps a part of any college experience. However, at Davidson, they seem
to be only an indication of a much broader and more serious frustration. This is the feeling that Davidson is
a good school—better than average—but that we are so hampered by outmoded ideas and a reluctance to change that we
will never become a really fine national college.

Looking Backward
By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

N. C. Sees Smidgen Of Action

Believe it or not, North Carolina is the scene of some fairly important economic and political activity right now, even
though it may not be "where the action is." The current Cone Mills strike by workers affiliated with the Textile
Workers Union of America (TWUA) has given college students in the South an opportunity both to become involved in the
issues facing the present-day (I hesitate to say modern) South, and to see into the past events of other parts
of the country.

The textile industry is basic to the economy of the South and the strike is therefore economically important. But to
me, the sociological aspects of the union activity in the textile industry are of even greater interest. The most striking
aspect of the situation is the willingness with which whites seem to accept Negroes as partners in their desire to
bargain for a better price for their labor. One of the major themes in the history of the South has
been the role of the Negro and his relation to the poor southern white. The end of antagonism between poor
white and poor Negro may mark the end of the manorial-plantation relationship which has existed between Southern management and Southern
labor.

That the issues are as much sociological as economic is indicated in the union demands. Their concern is not so
much for wage increases (although that certainly is part of it), as it is for better working conditions, job security,
fringe benefits, such as retirement and insurance plans, and, most fundamentally, the acceptance of unions by both management and the
general public in the South as legitimate organs of Southern industry.

Observing and participating in union activity is also interesting from the historical point of view. The nature of the Cone
Mills strike reminds me of what I imagine labor activity in the North and West was like 30, 40, and
50 years ago. The vigor but relative weakness of the TWUA corresponds much more with the union image of those
days than with the current image of George Meany’s conservative craft unions, although Walter Reuther may still retain some of
the original impulse for social justice as well as economic prosperity.

There do exist, of course, many contrasts between even Southern union activities in the sixties and Northern unions of an
earlier era. For example, I am sure that the union struggles of the twenties were not accompanied by freedom songs
taken from the civil rights movement, even though the words may be adapted to a different struggle. Other contrasts exist,
contrasts which make one realize that the South is living in the sixties, like it or not. Left-wing idealists on
the picket lines have been replaced by college students. The problem of Communist influence in the labor unions has been
solved. Today's workers, even in the South and even if inadequately, are to some extent protected by the National Labor
Relations Act.

Nonetheless, the differences between labor’s situation in the South and the situation of unions in the North seem much greater
today than when Northern unions were still young. The situation is still fairly desperate for many of the Southern textile
workers, subjected to stretch-outs, poor working conditions, and lack of job security. Their struggle is far from over.

Does it seem hard to believe that at some time in the near future there will no longer be the
traditional Student Council meeting on Monday night at 7:00 p.m. in the Blue Room of the Union? Isn’t it even
harder to imagine that the traditional Student Council of 15 members may be completely dissolved and an entirely new form
of organization, with many more members, substituted for it?

These are the questions that are being seriously discussed at the meetings of the Constitution Revision Committee, which is currently
doing the most active work of any branch of the Student Council. "Everything is tentative and very indefinite right now,"
said Franklin Anderson, the secretary of the committee, "but we are making progress toward several major decisions."

Among such decisions is the major one of whether to completely revise the set-up of student government on the Davidson
campus or not. The chief alternative to the present Student Council is a senate-executive committee concept, which is employed effectively
at several other colleges.

"The main purpose of the constitution change," stated Bill Watson, a member of the Committee and the one who originally
proposed the senate-executive form of government in his platform for Student Body President, "is to let students have one central
organization that will represent the entire student body.

"In many cases," he said, "when a Student Council proposal is now shown to the faculty, they seem unsure as
to whether it really represents the general opinion of the student body. Such a change in form would give the
students one voice through which to speak to the faculty, and one organization through which they could more readily govern
themselves."

Pursuing the reasons for constitution revision even further, Anderson said, "Whatever is included in the present Student-Body Constitution has just
evolved through the years. Whenever the Student Council found something wrong with the constitution or its rules, they would simply
throw something into the constitution to correct it. Right now they have a very narrow edge of authority over everything.

"What we are trying to do is to pull things together, to create a more unified government that will replace
the present fragmentary one. We are stepping back, looking at the present constitution, and reconstructing it as we think will
best suit the needs of the Davidson student body.

"The new constitution, in whatever form it takes, will give the Student Council more explicit power and will define exactly
what it can and cannot do. It will define the relation between campus organizations and will probably provide some sort
of organization to represent independents. We realize that we must protect the freedom of the various organizations to act as
they wish, but we also want to restrain them from doing anything which would be detrimental to the student body."

At present, there are three subcommittees of the Constitution Committee, each working on a different phase of the constitution: one
is working on the preamble, statement of purpose, and the judicial area (courts and codes); another is working on the
form which the highest level of student government will take; and the last is working on the relationship of the
highest body to the other organizations, the committees which might exist below this highest level, and the faculty-student councils.

No matter what form the student government takes, there will be three governing bodies, each functioning separately from the other
two: a Student Council or government, an Honor Court, and a Regulations Court. At present, the Honor Court is examining
the results of its recent questionnaire and may make some recommendations to the Committee.

If the committee should continue in the direction they are now headed, toward the senate-executive form, and decide to establish
it, the Executive Committee would have about 7 members and the Senate about 30. The Executive Committee would prepare the
agenda and hear committee reports, while the Senate would enact the actual legislation and make major policy decisions. There would
be various other smaller committees to do a lot of the "leg work."

Discussing one of his favorite subjects, Watson commented, "This form of student government would take some of the load off
the President of the student body and distribute it equally among the members of the Executive Committee, although the President
would probably be head of both it and the Senate. It would give the students more power and better representation
and would distinguish between the legislative and executive functions.

"The only disadvantages are that such a body might be large and unruly and that representatives from various organizations might
be interested only in affairs which directly affect them. I seriously believe, though, that these disadvantages are minor and might
not appear at all, if the government is properly organized.

"My chief hope is that this form of student government will change the attitude of students. If it is a
change for the better and they feel that they have an active voice in making school policy, I hope they
will be willing to accept more responsibility and be very careful in selecting those people who will represent them in
student government."

So evidently the Committee is making progress in these early meetings, even if they are not exactly sure in what
direction they are headed. They plan to have a tentative constitution drawn up by the end of the semester, lay
it aside over the summer and ponder it, and then make the final revisions early next fall.

Chairman Mike Bates is very pleased. "Everyone is being open-minded and honestly considering alternatives to their own views. With the
committee working this well together, we cannot help but come up with the right answers eventually."
