**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1967

Half A Loaf

After crying so much for an increased student voice in college affairs, we feel sort of foolish about quibbling with a proposal that has such a goal. This time, however, we must. Last week Student Body President Tom Earnhardt raised the idea that the faculty’s Student Life Committee might be used like the College Council that was proposed by the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life last spring. Students are members of the faculty committee, and Earnhardt would certainly be correct if he said that increased use of the committee by the Student Council constitutes a greater voice for the students in college affairs. It would have been pointless to seek to get student representation on faculty committees if students did not plan to make the fullest possible use of their representation. So Earnhardt is making a wise move in seeking to channel just as much student responsibility to the faculty committee as it will take.

But we wonder if he realizes the implications of the College Council concept. It is true that the council’s functions were described in the Blue Sky subcommittee’s report as being similar to those of the faculty’s Committee on Student Life. It is also true that the make-up of both the council and the faculty committee are similar in that both would include representatives from the faculty, administration, and student body. But the philosophy behind the two groups is not the same. Student use of faculty committees is simply a good use of the present system of college government. The College Council reflects a much more progressive concept, the concept of an integrated campus government.

In various speeches this fall, Earnhardt has made much of the idea that the college community should not be a fragmented world where the students go wandering off screaming about their independence while they cut the lines of communication that would actually allow them to exercise their influence. A readily apparent example of this sort of thing can be found at Davidson in the conflict between the faculty and student rules about alcohol. The fact that the student body rules allow drinking on the campus does not change the fact that such consumption is still illegal, at least in the faculty rules. Those rules are easily enough to kick a student out of school. While this is the most readily apparent example of the absurdity of conflicting faculty and student rules over student life, it is only an indication of how baseless is the claim of student independence.

Inherent in the College Council concept is the idea that students, faculty, and administration should share the responsibility for campus government. It presupposes the belief that students are mature enough to share in the making of the policies that will actually matter. It also assumes that the faculty and administration would allow to students the control over the entire college community that their maturity warrants. The biggest question involved in the acceptance of the council and the philosophy behind it is not the willingness of the faculty and administration. Members of both have discussed the idea with the result that they have a very favorable opinion of it. Student willingness to realize the responsible position that they could occupy on this campus is the biggest stumbling block hindering the realization of integrated campus government. It seems that it will take a major conflict for students to see that liberalization of their own self-government does no good unless they can effect a similar change in the regulations that really matter, the faculty rules. Getting more representation on faculty committees and even making the most of that representation is not the same as cooperating in the governing of the college and having that cooperation fully recognized.

Perhaps Earnhardt’s emphasis upon the faculty Student Life Committee is really just a subtle backdoor approach to achieve the goal of an integrated campus government. We urge the Student Council to go ahead with its plans to make the fullest possible use of faculty committees, but we cannot say that such methods are as good as going to the front door to seek the implementation of the ideas proposed by the Blue Sky subcommittee as they are exemplified in the College Council. Some energetic pursuit of these ideas could bring them down out of the sky onto this campus.

Semantic Antics

Syndicated columnist Sydney J. Harris, the intellectual leader of middle-aged journalism, often devotes his column to something that he calls “Antics with Semantics.” In this column he says such things as, “I am unpretentious; you are casual; he is a slob.” The object of his ramblings along this line is to demonstrate the effects of careful selection of words. If he were to visit Davidson today, he might well gain a new item for his column: “He is a social affiliate; I am a participant in an extended rush program.”

Once again, the fraternity presidents have managed to come up with a good plan for remedying some of the faults of the Davidson social and fraternity system. The basic shape of the compromise they will submit to the faculty Tuesday was given in the original “total opportunity” proposal that they drafted last spring. The solution offered by their compromise proposal retains the spirit of their old plan. To butcher an old television line, only the words have been changed to protect the innocent. As far as the compromise affects the freshman, the difference between the old and new fraternity presidents’ plan is largely one of semantics. From the viewpoint of the national fraternities, the changes will be more substantial. By dropping the title of “social affiliate,” the compromise proposal overcomes the objections raised by several of the nationals that “social affiliate” status is illegal under their constitutions.

The creation of a judicial board under the compromise proposal should overcome the objection by nationals that students who are not brothers would tend to be irresponsible for the welfare of the fraternity’s members. One claim that has been voiced by the nationals is that a fraternity would have no way of disciplining a social affiliate. Supposedly such a student would be able to avoid paying his board bill or he might destroy house furniture without being subject to punishment. The judicial board proposed by the presidents will ensure that students have some way to discipline irresponsible rushees.

Under the old total opportunity plan, a fraternity did not have to give its consent for an affiliate to remain at the house for longer than two months. The affiliate could stay as long as he wished. The new plan gives the fraternity the right to withdraw its invitation to a rushee after two months regardless of whether or not the rushee wants to leave. This provision may cause some local objections that the rushee is being abused. However, it seems to us that if a fraternity is willing to tell a rushee that he is no longer welcome, that this feeling would already be so apparent at the house that the rushee would be ready to leave anyway. It is a shame that people still have not learned to get along with each other and find the best that there is in each new individual. In this sense, the compromise proposal is not a “total opportunity” plan. But the old plan did not change human nature either.

Repeatedly we have stated that we favor a local fraternity system that would not be hobbled by national affiliations. The fraternities missed their chance to grab such an opportunity back when they consulted the nationals for their opinion of the total opportunity plan. If any of the nationals had jerked charters because of their objections to the old plan after they had been consulted, their action would have created a stigma about local fraternities that would have been hard to overcome. For this reason, we are pleased that the fraternity presidents were able to come up with a plan that retains the spirit of their previous one and still can be within the tolerance bounds of the nationals. We would like to see the day come when freshmen would come to college with enough maturity to see through the sophomoric infatuation over Greek mystic goodies. But until such a day, the fraternity presidents’ compromise plan may serve to aid the freshman’s adjustment to the Davidson fraternity system.

"And you told me it didn’t work!”

The Honor System

A Poet’s Words Unheard By Pepsi Generation

Pictures From An Institution By Randall Jarrell, Meridian Fiction, $1.45.

It would be foolish to pretend to know a great deal about Randall Jarrell. He taught at the University of North Carolina in Greensboro, and more than a few of the bright young writers that have for unknown and unquestioned reasons made North Carolina their hunting grounds and home were taught by him. He was an excellent teacher, a rebellious critic, and a frustrated and neglected poet. (When I told Peter Nicholls, director of The Student Store, that I wanted to review Jarrell's only work in the bookstore, he pointed out that the two copies of Pictures from an Institution had been there as long as he had.)

In Poetry and the Age (which Mr. Nicholls is ordering), there is an essay on the obscurity of the poet. “Tomorrow morning,” Jarrell says, “some poet may, like Byron, wake up to find himself famous — for having written a novel, for having killed his wife; it will not be for having written a poem.”

Like Cummings’ The Enormous Room, Pictures from an Institution is Jarrell’s only work of fiction (“a comedy”). The Institution is Benton (“Half the campus was designed by Bottom the Weaver, half by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe”), an expensive, progressive female college located somewhere between Sarah Lawrence and Bennington. The book is a series of portraits of faculty folk and their wives, the President and Mrs., and his secretary. President Robbins, a former Olympic diver, glows, raises money, loves and is Benton. Jarrell attacks new institutionalism in President Robbins and those around him and smacks dehumanized letters in a portrait of Gertrude, the writer in residence.

Jarrell was first what we have come to call a war poet, and in 1945 some part of the war was over. In a lecture a year ago at the Library of Congress, Karl Shapiro endeavored to place Jarrell in's country is to do it a service and pay it a compliment. It is a service because it may spur the country to do better than it is doing; it is a compliment because it evidences a belief that the country can do better than it is doing. In a democracy, dissent is an act of faith. Criticism may embarrass the country’s leaders in the short run but strengthen their hand in the long run; it may destroy a consensus on policy while expressing a consensus of values. Criticism, in short, is more than a right; it is an act of patriotism, a higher form of patriotism, I believe, than the familiar rituals of national adulation.

We are an extraordinary nation, endowed with a rich and productive land, a humane and decent political tradition, and a talented and energetic population. Surely a nation so favored is capable of extraordinary achievement, not only in the area of producing and enjoying great wealth, in which area our achievements have indeed been extraordinary, but also in the area of human and international relations, in which area, it seems to me, our achievements have fallen short of our capacity and promise. My question is whether America can close the gap between her capacity and performance. My hope and my belief are that she can, that she has the human resources to conduct her affairs with a maturity which few if any great nations have ever achieved: to be confident but also tolerant, to be rich but also generous, to be willing to teach but also willing to learn, to be powerful but also wise. I believe that America is capable of all of these things; I also believe she is falling short of them.

The discharge of the duty of dissent is handicapped in America by an unworthy tendency to fear serious criticism of our government. In the abstract, we celebrate freedom of opinion as part of our patriotic liturgy; it is only when some Americans exercise it that other Americans are shocked. No one, of course, ever criticizes the right of dissent; it is always this particular instance of it or its exercise under these particular circumstances or at this particular time that throws people into a blue funk. Intolerance of dissent is a well-noted feature of the American national character. Louis Hartz attributes it to the heritage of a society which was “born free,” a society which is unnerved by serious criticism because it has experienced so little of it. Alexis de Tocqueville took note of this tendency over a hundred years ago: “I know of no country in which there is so little independence of mind and real freedom of discussion as in America.”

Profound changes have occurred since Democracy in America first appeared and yet it may be asked whether recognition of the right of dissent has gained substantially in practice as well as in theory. The malady in Tocqueville's view was one of democracy itself: “... The smallest reproach irritates its sensibility and the slightest joke that has any foundation in truth renders it indignant: from the forms of its language up to the solid virtues of its character, everything must be made the subject of encomium. No writer, whatever be his eminence, can escape paying this tribute of adulation to his fellow citizens.”

From small-town gatherings to high policy councils, Americans are distressed when a writer or a politician or even a private citizen interrupts all this self-congratulation and expresses himself with simple, unadorned candor. The problem is worsening, among other reasons, because more and more of our citizens earn their livings by working for corporations and other large organizations, few of which are known to encourage political and other forms of heterodoxy on the part of their employees. The result is that more and more Americans face the dilemma of how, if at all, an individual can safely exercise honest individual judgment, indeed, retain his capacity for it, in an environment in which the surest route to advancement is conformity with a barren and oppressive orthodoxy.

The problem is acute in the federal bureaucracy, whose congenital inhospitality to unorthodox ideas, were its dimensions only known, would allay the anxieties of the most agitated superpatriot. This is unfortunate indeed because the most valuable public servant, like the true patriot, is one who gives a higher loyalty to his country’s ideals than to its current policy and who therefore is willing to criticize as well as to comply.

Some time ago I met an American poet, Mr. Ned O'Gorman, who had just returned from a visit to Latin America sponsored by the State Department. He said, and previously had written, that he had been instructed by American embassy officials in the countries he visited that if he were questioned, by students and intellectuals with whom he was scheduled to meet, on such “difficult” questions as the Dominican Republic and Vietnam, he was to reply that he was “unprepared.” At a meeting with some Brazilian students he finally rebelled, with the following result as he described it: “... the questions came, swirling, battering, bellowing from the classroom. Outside the traffic and the oily electric heat. But I loved it. I was hell-bent for clarity. I knew they wanted straight answers and I gave them.

“I had been gorged to sickness with embassy prudence. The applause was long and loud. The embassy man was furious. ‘You are taking money dishonestly,’ he told me. ‘If the government pays you to do this tour you must defend it and not damn it.’

“It did no good when I explained to him that if I didn’t do what I was doing, then I'd be taking the money dishonestly...”

It escapes me totally why American diplomats should not be proud to have American poets and professors and politicians demonstrate their country's political and intellectual health by expressing themselves with freedom and candor. As O'Gorman put it, “... I spoke with equal force of the glory and the tragedy of America. And that is what terrified the Americans.”