SEAMANS COUNTS HIS BLESSINGS (See Page Two) VOL. LV

By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

Students agitating for no Saturday classes might do well to consider the Davidson of the turn-of-the-century. In those days, there
were no classes on Monday. The college’s religious commitment, stronger then than now, was the reason for the seemingly strange
schedule, according to one who remembers.

Said Walter S. Henderson, a Davidson watchmaker and member of the Class of ‘12: “There were no Monday classes so
that boys who messed around on Saturdays wouldn't feel pressed to study on Sunday." Instead, literary society meetings and labs
were held on Monday. The five-day work week began on Tuesday.

A half a century has brought change and progress to Davidson, Henderson said, but one student occupation has remained the
same: the quest for female companionship. Even in the early 1900s Davidson students “scoured the country" for girls. That they
were often successful is obvious from the number of marriages to girls from North Carolina, Henderson said.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1967

(Staff Photo by Weems)

THE YEARS BRING CHANGES
Henderson watches Davidson's progress.

In 1912: Sacred Sunday And No Monday Classes

Henderson, an elderly gentleman with a thatch of white hair and an ever-present pipe, has owned and operated Henderson’s Jewelers
in downtown Davidson for almost 50 years. His interest in watches dates back to his boyhood, when his father, a
Presbyterian minister, moved his family to Davidson. After school and on Saturdays, Henderson worked for a local jeweler.

In his student days, Henderson studied chemistry and was a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and a monitor at
chapel and church. In those days students were required to attend an 11 a.m. service at the college church. Said
Henderson: “Some griped, but it never hurt them.”

Reflecting on over 50 years’ observation of the college, Henderson had words of praise for the ROTC program and the
proposed curriculum changes. A new curriculum, he said, will help alleviate the problems caused by “the sorry job grammar schools
and high schools do in preparing students for college.” He pointed to the number of Davidson graduates who have gone
on to “high offices in the Army” as a good reason for continuing ROTC.

Freshmen To Decide Use

Investigating Committee Not Negligent — Newsom

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Buddy Newsom, chairman of the Investigating Committee for the Student Body Regulations Court, answered charges that his committee was neglecting
its duty at the Tuesday meeting of the Student Council. After the meeting got off to a late start because
of the absence of several council members, Newsom said that he was present “only to clarify the charges by Bill
Watson that my committee had not investigated several cases referred to us by Watson.” Newsom said that to his knowledge
he had failed to investigate only one case, due to a breakdown in communication between his committee and the Student
Body Regulations Court. Watson, chairman of the court, was not present to answer this statement; but said afterwards that he
“felt sure I had reported several cases to Newsom upon which no action was taken.”

Newsom said he would try to alleviate this communication problem by asking Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing, to
report cases directly to him in the future. He also asked that members of the court be more understanding in
their attitude toward the committee.

Newsom's action was prompted by the charges made against his committee in a letter sent to all its members by
the council. The letter alleged that the Investigating Committee had failed to investigate several cases. The letter also drew a
response from Steve Humphrey, another member of the committee, who asked the council to accept his resignation from the committee
“because of a lack of time.” The council accepted his resignation and will appoint a new member next week.

Newsom also suggested that the council consult the Investigating Committee in the future whenever they are considering changing any dormitory
rules. He said he thought, for example, that a stricter fire rule would be difficult to enforce.

Faculty To Meet On ROTC

The faculty will probably meet the last week before Christmas vacation to consider the section of the Blue Sky Report
dealing with ROTC, a member of the faculty said Wednesday. The date of the meeting is dependent on two factors:
the scheduled absence of President D. Grier Martin from campus all next week and the necessity of meeting before the
scheduled trustee meeting Dec. 20.

Consideration of the portion of the Blue Sky Report was originally delayed because of the absence of Col. Frederick Outlaw,
professor of military science. Outlaw was unable to attend the meeting during which the faculty passed the rest of the
report. The Blue Sky Committee has recommended that ROTC be made voluntary for the first two years, and that no
academic credit be given for the first two years.

For Lingle Manor Building

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

The future of the recently abandoned Lingle Manor building will be determined by the Freshman Council. The Student Council turned
the problem over to the freshmen after the Lingle Manor group disbanded two weeks ago and transferred its treasury and
facilities to the Student Council.

Freshman Council President Steve Engstrom said that a committee has been appointed to study the situation and that it will
present a report at the next meeting of the Freshman Council on Monday. One of the ideas the committee is
considering is to make the house into an all-night study house. There would be meeting rooms and a television room
downstairs which might include vending machines for hot and cold drinks and sandwiches. The upstairs would be divided into typing
and study rooms similar to those in the library. The building could also be used as housing for freshman dates
during dance weekends.

At Wednesday's Student Council meeting, Engstrom made it clear, though, that the house was not to be used as a
“halfway house” where those freshmen not yet in fraternities could center their social life. Rather it would be primarily intended
as a late-night study area. Engstrom said, “The possibilities for its use are limitless. It would be a place where
freshmen can bring their dates between concerts and a Union combo party. It would be especially nice because it has
a home-like atmosphere. Since it would be open to everyone, not just the freshmen, it could be a place where
we could meet people,” said Engstrom. “We want to emphasize that it won't be called Lingle Manor any more. We
also want to emphasize that it won't be the same old place with a new name; it will be a
new place with a new atmosphere.”

The building, which was donated to the college a number of years ago, was taken over by the Lingle Manor
group when it first formed in 1962. Membership in the original group was about 50; but when Lingle Manor formally
disbanded itself two weeks ago membership had shrunk to six.Political speakers next spring by inviting either George Wallace, former governor
of Alabama, or Orville Faubus, former governor of Arkansas, to speak at Davidson. He said these men could give the
student body their third-party points of view. The council voted down a proposal from Queens Col (See STUDENT, Page 6)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

MIKE BATES, group chairman

Students To Get Better Seating
By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

Location of student seating for basketball games in the Charlotte Coliseum, often a source of gripes in the past, will
be much improved this year, Student Council President Tom Earnhardt said yesterday. Student concern for better seats and the desire
of Coach Lefty Driesell "to have the student body closer to the team," he said, prompted Athletic Director Tom Scott
to provide a new arrangement. The Student Council requested early this fall that better seats be given students, and "Dr.
Scott agreed with us," Earnhardt said. "Due to his full cooperation, the Student Council passed on the plan around the
first of October." Scott said Wednesday that students would be given the

Newspaper Gets Top ACP Rating

For the 11th consecutive semester, THE DAVIDSONIAN has been awarded an All-American rating, the highest possible ranking given by the
Associated Collegiate Press (ACP), an organization which evaluates college newspapers across the country. The All-American ranking represents a superior rating
reserved for the top college publications. The ranking given for the issues for the second semester of last year marked
the 12th time in the last 14 semesters that THE DAVIDSONIAN has captured the top award. On a 4,000 point
scale, with at least 3,700 points required for an All-American rating, THE DAVIDSONIAN scored 3,840. Coverage, content, and physical properties
are the major areas evaluated by the ACP. THE DAVIDSONIAN received near-perfect rankings in all three categories. Editorials, photography, style,
layout, and creativity were the specific areas that were highly commended by the ACP. The critical service also praised the
feature, news, and sports coverage. Shorter leads, avoidance of unnecessary detail, and the deletion of trite expressions from the copy
were among the recommendations of the ACP.

Proposed Fire Rule To Go To Student Vote Tuesday

A student body vote on the proposed stricter rule against dormitory fires will be held next Tuesday, Student Body Regulations
Court Chairman Bill Watson revealed after chapel yesterday. Watson said that the rule had two purposes: to protect students’ lives
and to protect college property. "The reason for the rule is simply to underline the seriousness of building any kind
of fire in the dormitories," said Tom Earnhardt, president of the Student Council. "We aren't talking about hot plates, or
popcorn poppers, or any other appliances. We're talking about 'fun fires,' the ones built with paper or lighter fluid. This
kind of 'fun' just can't continue," Earnhardt said. The rule, which will be an amendment to Article IX, Section 5,
of the Student Body Constitution if passed by the required two-thirds vote of the student body, reads: "The intentional setting
of a fire in any building on campus will be considered an extreme case, and conviction for such an offense
will usually result in suspension for no less than one semester." Earnhardt mentioned the damage done to Richardson Dormitory last
year as proof of the need for such a rule. The stronger rule was first recommended last month by the
faculty Student Life Committee. The Student Council has also endorsed the measure.

"parquet seats—the first rows of elevated seats on the floor of the Coliseum—"the best seats in the house." All parquet
seats on one side will be available, he said, and all but a few on the other side, too. Earnhardt
said, "For students who like the bird's-eye view, there will be two high sections reserved, too. There will be more
seats than last year, and there should be plenty of seats for students and dates at every game." Scott said
it would be "better for the team and better for the students to be around the court to make plenty
of racket." "I hope the new situation will be an asset," Driesell said. "I suggested that the students be given
the best seats with the hope that their cheering will be heard more by the players. I hope they yell,
holler, and support us." He and Earnhardt said they hoped the new seats would produce a "home court" effect in
the Coliseum. Earnhardt reported that a few businesses had complained that the best seats were not available to them as
gifts to customers, but that Scott had supported the students. Scott said ticket sales were "brisk" and that four home
games will be televised.

BLACK STUDENTS DISCUSS ROLE (See Page Three)

NUMBER ELEVEN

Student Body Will Get Constitution Dec. 11
Rights Section Undone
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The Student Council Constitution Revision Committee will present the new Student Constitution to the Student Council and student body by
Monday, Dec. 11, according to Mike Bates, chairman of the committee. Bates said Wednesday that except for the bill of
rights and a few more details the constitution is complete. He added that the committee would have an open meeting
for questions from students. "We want the constitution in time for the spring elections and if we don’t get it
out before Christmas, we will run into rush week, exams, etc.," said Franklin Anderson, a committee member. He expressed the
hope that the constitution might be voted on before the end of the semester. The committee was set up last
semester after elections, since most of the newly elected Student Council members had run on platforms calling for revision of
the constitution. Bates noted that the group had planned to deal with the bill of rights at the Tuesday night
meeting, but that the special subcommittee on the bill of rights, of which Fletcher Hartsell is chairman, had been unable
to report at that time. A student Senate to replace the present Student Council is one of the provisions of
the new constitution. The Senate would have 23 members elected from the student body, with additional non-voting members chosen by
the senators. A 5- to 7-member executive committee is also included in the plan. The constitutional revision was necessary because
of complaints about the present Student Body Constitution. (See CONSTITUTION, P. 6)

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, December 2
All Day Intercollegiate Band Hodson Hall
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball Charlotte Coliseum Davidson vs. Clemson
8 p.m. Basketball Charlotte Coliseum Davidson vs. VMI

Sunday, December 3
2:30 p.m. Concert Love Auditorium Intercollegiate Band
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service Lingle Chapel Dr. Max Polley

Monday, December 4
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium George Trask
7 p.m. Blow Up ‘67 SAE House T. A. Williams
10 p.m. Movie “The Trip” Union

Tuesday, December 5
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium MBC War Correspondent Craig Spence
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball Johnston Gym Davidson vs. Furman
8 p.m. Basketball Johnston Gym Davidson vs. Furman
8 p.m. French Films Dome Room
10 p.m. Movie Union

Wednesday, December 6
7 p.m. Spanish Movies Union Dome Room

Thursday, December 7
10:20 a.m. Chapel Love Auditorium Dr. Richard H. Luecke Director of Studies, Urban Training Center for Christian Mission
