oe - | WAYNE HUCKEL DRIVES FOR BUCKET
Junior standout scores in scrimmage game.

Terriers To Visit
By BOB MEADOWS
Sports Writer

Wofford College will face the Wildcats in the last Davidson home football game tomorrow at 2. Even with an off week last week and two weeks preparation for the meeting with the Terriers, head coach Homer Smith voiced concern over the 'Cats readiness. “At this moment our defense is not ready and we have not yet put together the type of offense that we have worked toward. We hope these two phases will be ready by Saturday.”

Although complimenting the Davidson team for its performance during practice in the colder weather, Smith said that he is more concerned with this game than he has been with any game so far this season. The Terriers have some outstanding personnel whom they hope will be able to offset the Davidson attack. Linebacker Bill Burk, a 6-3, 230 pounder, and defensive tackle Sidney Albred, 6-1, 220 pounds, are key men in Wofford’s defense. Albred is as strong a defensive tackle as the 'Cats have faced all season. Burk has played well against Davidson for the last two years. Last year he was so effective that the Wildcats had to move the ball away from his side of the line. Still, Smith said, he made many tackles.

Offensively, the Terriers depend largely on running back Ted Phelps. Kick return specialist Vince Colley is considered to be a threat to the 'Cats. “Colley is fast and very skillful,” Smith said. Davidson will be playing without the aid of Kit Thompson and Steve Butler, both out with injuries. However, the Wildcats will be strengthened by the return of Tupper Morehead who has missed several games because of a broken finger.

The 'Cats will be counting on the services of quarterback Jimmy Poole and the running of fullback Kerry Keith. Poole, who led the nation's passers before last week, is only two completions off the lead, having played a game less than the leader. “We have worked harder in practice on our running game than we have on our passing,” Smith said. “Our running has improved a great deal because of this extra practice.”

Tackle Lowell Bryan and defensive lineman John Giles were praised by Smith for their performances in practice sessions this week. Still, the coaches hope that both offense and defense will be ready for Saturday's game. The Terriers use a split line on offense which they have not changed in many years. “They have been very successful with it so they have no reason to change,” Smith said. “However, we do expect some surprise formations, such as putting two men on one side of the field, two on the other side, and the rest of the offensive unit in the center of the field.”

Another important factor in Saturday's game is the rivalry between Wofford and Davidson. Wofford is a school roughly the same size as Davidson. Every year the Wildcat game is

Talented Cagers Face Roughest Season Ever
By DANNY WHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

“I won't say that this year’s team is the best I've ever had at Davidson, but I will say it sure has the potential to be,” said Davidson basketball coach Lefty Driesell recently commenting on the prospects for the coming roundball season. Too many people, including most pre-season basketball publications, think that Driesell’s comment is conservative to say the least. The 1967-68 season has been tabbed as the “Year of the return to the nation’s Top Ten" for the Wildcats by Davidson basketball faithfuls.

The '67 Wildcats have impressive credentials. First, the Wildcats did not lose a single man from last year’s varsity squad which was 15-12 and second place in the Southern Conference. In addition, Driesell has a host of outstanding sophomores waiting in the wings. The super sophs include Doug Cook and Mike Maloy, both 6-6; Jerry Kroll and Jan Postma, both 6-4; and Fox Demoisey, 6-1. These men posted a 16-0 record during their freshman season—the first undefeated Wildkitten team ever—which included seven triumphs over Atlantic Coast Conference competition.

However, Lefty's Legions must play the toughest schedule in the Southern Conference this year. The schedule includes 10 Southern Conference games, as well as intersectional clashes with such traditional powerhouses as Duke, St. John’s, St. Joseph’s, Wake Forest, Michigan, VPI, and Vanderbilt. The Wildcats will also host the Charlotte Invitational Tournament with Temple, Rice, and Miami of Ohio competing. Davidson also plays in the Sugar Bowl Classic in New Orleans, competing with Vanderbilt, Michigan State, and Memphis State.

“I would have to rate our schedule as the toughest I’ve had to play since I've been at Davidson,” said Driesell. “It would have to rate as one of the toughest in the nation.”

Leading last year’s returnees are senior captain Rodney Knowles and junior Wayne Huckel. The 6-9 Knowles averaged 18.4 points and 12.0 rebounds per game and rates as a solid All-American candidate. Also returning is Huckel whom Driesell has called the greatest hustler he’s ever coached. Huckel was a first team All-Southern Conference tournament selection last year when he poured in 28 points in the finals against West Virginia. Starters Dave Moser, Tom Youngdale, and Mike O'Neill plus sixth man Mike Spann also return from the '67 varsity.

“I have no idea who our starting five will be this time,” said Driesell, “but it's really not important. I plan to play nine or 10 players a whole lot. Anyway, it’s the five that finish the game who are important.”

“We may even use a platoon system this year,” continued Driesell. “However, that's highly tentative because we're just in the experimenting stage with it right now.”

“Pre-season ratings don't mean that much,” said Driesell, commenting on the team's ranking in the polls. The general public will get its first chance to see the '67-'68 edition of the Wildcats in action tomorrow in an intersquad clash following the football game. The Annual Wildcat-Wildkitten contest is scheduled for Nov. 18.

Booters Drop Pair As Offense Falters
By KIM GRIFFITH
Sports Writer

Soccer teams from NC State and Duke proved too strong for the Davidson booters, as the Wildcats dropped two games in the last week. State downed the 'Cats on the Davidson field last Saturday 3-1. On Wednesday the Blue Devils of Duke hosted the 'Cats, handing them a 3-0 defeat.

Davidson's scoring threat was mild both games. The State game was a hard-fought contest in which tempers flared often. Coach Harry Fogleman called the game the roughest soccer he had seen in several years. “The officials just let the game get out of hand. They did not call the penalties that would have brought the game under control,” he said. The Davidson team was just as guilty as the State players after the roughness started, but Fogleman said that you cannot blame a player for defending himself. The roughness of the play set the style for the game. After the action started, Davidson began to play State's kind of game. The Wildcats could not beat the Wolfpack at this type of play.

Wednesday's loss to Duke saw the last of the original Davidson goalies injured. Now Harry Hamil, Jeff Plainer, and John Lipfert have all been lost for the season because of injuries. Fogleman has had to train players to play goalie, beginning a week ago. Jim Martow, a starting wing, and Eddie Rice, a fullback, have been working at the goal position. In the Duke game, it was the inexperience of the goalies that allowed the Blue Devils to score their three goals, none of which were on particularly powerful kicks. The first half was closely played, with Duke unable to score until just before the half was over. Then the second half was dominated by Duke.

“Against Duke we played one of our best games, but we were not able to get shots at their goal,” Fogleman said. “Normally we take from 23 to 30 shots. Wednesday we got only twelve.” Duke had four times as many shots as Davidson and was able to control the offense. The Wildcats' last regular season game was with Emory University today in Atlanta. Next week the Southern Conference playoff begins.the one that the Terriers want to win the most.

By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Copping three first places, the Phi Delts won the IMAC wrestling tournament held Monday and Tuesday. The Delts scored 71 points, finishing far ahead of the rest of the field. The Phi Gams placed second with 37 points, followed closely by Kappa Alpha with 33. The Sigma Chi's grabbed fourth, managing 29 points. Sigma Nu finished fifth, while the Pikas edged out the Kappa Sigs and Independents. The Sigs and the Indies tied for seventh. The ATO’s, Betas, Pikaps, SAE’s, and Sig Eps all failed to score in the disappointingly small tournament.

IMAC director Sterling Martin said that he was sorry to see such a small turnout for the event. “This year’s tournament had the fewest entries I can remember. I was particularly disappointed that several teams did not enter any wrestlers at all,” Martin said. He added that it appears that some fraternities are apparently giving up their chance at winning the overall intramural championship.

Individual winners in the final round for the Delts were Al Jasper, Dick Stoops, and Ron Hunt. Jasper pinned Mike Moates of Sigma Chi to win the 152-pound class. Hunt won a decision over the KA’s Bruce Vanderbloemen in the 177-pound division. Stoops, a heavyweight, won a close decision over Bill Richmond of the Gams.

John Benbow and Pat Bray gave the Pikas two winners in the finals. Benbow outlasted Rudy Mauny, a Sigma Nu, to win in the 123-pound class. Bray pinned Bill Johnson, another Sigma Nu, to take the 137-pound championship. Ed Kopp of the Sigma Chi's had the easiest time of anyone in the tournament in winning his weight class title. Kopp was the only entry in the 130-pound division, giving him the victory by default. Independent Bill Shutt won a decision over the Gams’ Jim McMillan to win the 145-pound event. Mike Bumgarner, wrestling in the 160-pound class, pinned the Delts’ Frank Murphy to give the Gams a first place in that division. Dave Troxler, a Kappa Sig, defeated Rick Travilla of the Delts to take the 167-pound championship. Tad Lowdermilk of the KA’s pinned Blake Goslen of the Delts in the 191-pound event.

With flickerball, golf, and wrestling completed, the next intramural competition will be basketball.

The Davidsonian
November 10, 1967
Page Five

(Staff Photos by Fonvielle)

BILL RICHMOND TRIES FOR REVERSAL
But Delts’ Dick Stoops hangs on to win.

Delt Grapplers Pin Down IMAC Wrestling Victory

Bullpups’ Long Scampers Lead Them Past ’Kittens

Citadel’s Bullpups, sparked by two long runs of 95 and 66 yards in the first quarter, handed the Davidson Wildkittens their third defeat in four games, 14-7, in a game played Friday in Charleston. All of the game's scoring took place in the initial quarter with the visiting Wildkittens striking first early in the quarter on a nine-yard scamper by tailback David Mockebee. The Bullpups’ Jim Cunningham took the ensuing kickoff and rambled 95 yards for the tying touchdown. Late in the same quarter, he scored on a 65-yard option play.

Davidson Coach Bob Brown pointed out that the defeat was not one that the ‘Kittens should be ashamed of. The Bullpups are 5-0-1 for the season and are rated as one of the finest freshman teams in the Carolinas. Brown especially praised the defensive unit for its great hustle and gave special mention to such standouts as Bryan Peterson, Sean McCormick, and Hugh Dennis for their fine defensive work. Brown pointed out that the Bullpup offense impressed him very little because of the rugged ‘Kitten defense.

Brown stated that the Davidson offense moved fairly well, but not as well as in the previous game against Carolina Military Academy. “The CMA game was about as close as we’ve come to putting it all together for a great football game—we hit and we hustled,” said Brown. The ‘Kitten offense was hampered throughout the afternoon by fumbles and poor execution. “Without such errors,” declared Brown, “we could have beaten them.”

The defeat proved costly to the Wildkittens as their stellar place kicker and wingback Nick Dumich was sidelined with an injury. Brown withheld no praise for the frosh gridsters for their season's play: “They're learning aggressive football and they're doing a good job. By eliminating their mistakes, the boys are becoming a fine group of football players. After all,” concluded Brown, “that’s the reason for freshman football.”

Overall, Brown said he was greatly impressed with his ‘67 players. “They’re a fine group of young men, in football and otherwise—a group of fine students who will be an asset to any program of which they wish to be a part.” The frosh wrap up their season today with a game against the Baby Paladins of Furman University in Greenville, S.C.

Top State Competition Overwhelms Harriers

Davidson's cross country team found the going rough in the North Carolina state meet Monday in Raleigh. The ‘Cats managed to finish sixth, although they did not have a runner finish before thirtieth place. Fourteen schools were entered in the match which was won by ECU. Duke finished second, then UNC and NC State. The Wildcat harriers beat such schools as Pembroke, High Point, Methodist College, and some other of the smaller colleges entered.

Coach Heath Whittle said that he was satisfied by Davidson’s showing in the meet, explaining that he did not expect to run as well as the larger schools. Duke's Ed Stenberg was the individual winner of the meet, running the course in 25:25. His time bettered the existing North Carolina record by 30 seconds. Jim McLaughlin, Davidson's strongest runner all season, was the first Wildcat to cross the finish line. He placed thirtieth in the overall field of 102 runners. McLaughlin's time was 28:34. Teammate John Puckett ran second for Davidson. His 28:53 time placed him fortieth overall. Team captain Randy Phillips finished just behind Puckett in fifty-third place with a 29:28 clocking. The rest of the Davidson runners in the order that they finished for the ‘Cats were Phil Croy, Reaves Louthan, James Puckett, Stagg Newell, Dave Shepler, Ed Hay, and Al Rogers.

Dance Through Drills

Davidson's Wildcat hoopsters have been working on a new skill in practice sessions for the past week. In addition to their regular shooting, passing, and defensive workouts, the 'Cats have been trying to perfect a ballet routine. The purpose for learning ballet is to improve footwork, coordination, and jumping ability.

“I had read that other athletic teams have used ballet dancing to improve their footwork and jumping,” coach Lefty Driesell said. “My daughter takes ballet lessons from Mrs. Christina Williams and I asked her if she thought it would help our players.” Mrs. Williams assured Driesell that ballet would be helpful not only in improving footwork and jumping, but also in conditioning. She agreed to work with the team, teaching them a routine that they can use in their practice sessions.

Ballet practice time creates quite a stir in Johnston Gym. Not only do the members of the basketball team work on their dance steps, but also the little children of Davidson who take lessons from Mrs. Williams join in the practice. In addition, Driesell dances along with the players. “I do it so that when Mrs. Williams is not there I will be able to teach the team the steps.” His presence also lends moral support to his amateur ballerinas.

Mc.Wrangler? Remember, the “W” is silent.

If somebody tries to tell you that all slacks are cut like Mr. Wrangler, resist. Hold out for no-flab trimness. And don’t fall for anything that doesn’t have Wranglok®, the wrinkle-fighter finish. It means neatness forever: ironing never. These Hondo® slacks (the Saturday night jeans) of wide-wale corduroy in whiskey, putty, and charred green $7.00, Oxford b.d. shirt in strong colors $5.00. And everything wears better because there's KODEL® in it—a muscle blend of 50% Kodel polyester/50% combed cotton.

BELK’S — MOORESVILLE
ROUND-UP — STATESVILLE
SMITHEY’S — STATESVILLE