**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis Lesesne Editor-in-Chief

Chris Hawk Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1967

A New Protest

A significant change in American youth's attitude and approach to the Vietnam War has slowly, but steadily, matured over the past months, to a position where it is now "respectable," so to speak, to speak out against the U.S. commitment of nearly 500,000 men in Southeast Asia. In October 1965 (under a different editorial staff), this newspaper quoted a number of daily newspapers commenting on a peace demonstration. The demonstrators were saddled with such epithets as "pacifists, beatniks, dedicated Communists, screwballs, and some simply misguided youths." These "dregs of society" were said to have "exceeded the limits of free speech and dissent," that is, they had dared to question the Administration's party line.

Times have changed now. The "mainstream" of American students are questioning now, and it’s no longer taboo to do so. The question of which came first, the expanded protest or the willingness of society to listen (or at least not to condemn), may be academic. What the changes indicate is a serious discontent on the part of the people who will have to bear the cost of the war. The petition signed by student leaders of 200 colleges and universities, including Davidson, and the 2-1 opposition by the nation's college editors, according to a poll taken last weekend at an editors conference, are indicative of the new "respectability" of protest.

The so-called "dregs of society" are on the fringes of the political spectrum, where, though they have valid grounds for protest, they are ignored by society because they fail to fit the mold of middle-class America. Student body presidents and college editors, while generally more aware and liberal than most students, must also bear the cross of respectability. But such a burden may actually work in their favor, for, as orthodox members of college and university society, their protests may finally register with the Establishment—the broken promises and unjustified escalation aren't sitting well, and youth is calling for an explanation.

In 1847, Rep. Abraham Lincoln, speaking of the politically motivated Mexican War, told Congress: "When the war began, it was my opinion that all those who, because of knowing too little, or because of knowing too much, could not conscientiously approve the conduct of the President, in the beginning of it, remain silent on that point, at least till the war should be ended. ...I think I should still adhere to it, were it not that the President and his friends will not allow it to be so... . Now I propose to show that the whole of this issue is... the sheerest deception..."

American college students have, like Lincoln, waited, and the time has come to ask questions and to get answers.

Reform The Board

Catholic colleges and universities, under strict parochial, clerical administration, have traditionally lagged in the realm of educational innovations. But the trend has been reversed recently, as one after another Catholic school has announced liberalization in the administrative structure of their schools, changes that Davidson's trustees could well take to heart. Most notably, Webster College in Missouri, a Catholic school for women, is completely separating itself, in a legal sense, from its founding order and placing itself under lay control. Its president is leaving the order, in order to stay on as president. A number of other Catholic schools, including St. Louis University, Notre Dame, Loyola University in Illinois, and John Carroll University in Ohio, are going through with plans to expand lay control over their colleges.

"The very nature of higher education is opposed to juridical control by the church," said Miss Jacqueline Grennan, president of Webster. "The academic freedom which must characterize a college or university would provide continuing embarrassments for the church if her hierarchy were forced into endorsing or negating the action of a college or university."

Davidson's situation is not so restricted as that of the typical Catholic school. But the fact remains that ultimate responsibility lies with a board of trustees, of whom more than three-fourths report back to an ecclesiastical body, i.e., the Presbyterian Church, US. College trustees should ideally have their interests and backgrounds, as well as responsibility, directed toward education and current developments in that field. Davidson may be a church-related school, but it is first and foremost an educational institution. Christian commitment and church control are by no means synonymous. To release the Board of Trustees from their ties to the Southern Presbyterian Church would be one step toward making the school more Christian and less Presbyterian: sectarianism is a dying tradition today and the college could do well to release itself from such a restriction. The only means by which such a step could come about would be through the trustees themselves voting a change which would essentially involve their voting themselves out of a job. The experience of state legislatures forced to reapportion themselves shows the frustration involved when dealing with vested interests. Such a step could be painful for the trustees but the welfare of the college must necessarily supersede any purely personal interests.

Make ROTC Extracurricular

While controversy at other campuses rages over the place ROTC should occupy in the structure of the college community, Davidson has seen little or no protest over the present setup. Defenders always point to the "good deals" Davidson students get, particularly the one semester per year provision, as opposed to the usual full year requirement on most campuses. The question is not one of the "deals" that students enrolled in the program get, but one of whether the course should have regular academic standing. While most opponents of ROTC have limited their goal to making Basic ROTC voluntary, itself admittedly an attractive goal, the ultimate goal should be that of placing the program in the realm of extracurricular activities, without academic credit.

THE DAVIDSONIAN reprinted in January an article from The Christian Science Monitor, sketching the arguments against ROTC having academic credit, arguments that ROTC officials on this campus and elsewhere have made no effort to rebut, since there is no valid basis for the program's having regular academic standing. If the Army's campus indoctrination center were placed on an extracurricular basis, the only "deals" that would be lost would be the academic credit and the bonus of quality points that accompany it. In other words, the cadets would still get their $40 per month and they would still enroll for only one semester per year. The campus-wide reputation for easy quality points in the ROTC program has been an attractive aspect. Possibly the department's new "get-tough" policy will change that somewhat. Or maybe one day the student body will be more interested in academic integrity than grade-point-ratio.

Today's Brutality

Consider the spectacle: hundreds of the cream of society's crop, bunched around radios, wherever they are found, soaking up vivid descriptions of inhuman behavior—one individual, who has trained strenuously for months in preparation for these 45 minutes, with no other immediate goal than to physically debilitate his opponent, while simultaneously taunting him. The detailed descriptions of blood running from one individual's eyes, human matter spilling onto the narrator, and the debasement of the beaten fighter are enough to make the staunchest wince.

But more significant and frightening than the prospect of boxers making their living by battering a fellow human is the realization that the pugilist can do so only because others are willing to pay to watch. It would be trite though not too difficult, to draw an analogy to a decadent Roman civilization, glorying in the "entertainment" furnished by gladiators. If such are the values cultivated, or at least tolerated, at a liberal arts school, little prospect appears for a refined society outside the academic confines, where there is not even a pretense of encouraging a comprehension of the finer things of life.

Marburg Corresponds To U.S. Graduate School

The University of Marburg is in a lot of ways like Davidson, for as far as German universities go, Marburg is small with only 8000 students. Although most of the students are older than we, I don't feel that the German system creates more "intellectuals" than Davidson; besides I never did feel cramped at Davidson. Also these people have to struggle for grades, but maybe just not so many—they have to pass the course and have seven "pass notes" at the end of seven semesters or out they go. Of course the pace might not be so strained as in the United States.

WELL-ROUNDED

But also when I think about it, I believe the person that graduates from Davidson is a more well-rounded individual than the graduate produced by the German system. We are able to take a broader look at the entire situation, but the German narrows his interests earlier, and concentrates on one subject sooner, and thereby closes the gate to a wider knowledge. It is hard to believe some of the comments I have heard a pre-med student here make: he believes anything he reads; he seriously speaks of "the American white man's conspiracy of wiping out the Negroes by making them fight in Vietnam."

In a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN earlier this year, Holmes Eleazer said that he saw the German student as most "activist minded." I don't think American students are any less concerned about the politics at home than the Germans are.

PAPER SLIPS

Perhaps the Germans enjoy handing out slips of paper calling on students to send checks for support of the Liberation Front in Vietnam; such a pamphlet was handed out by the Socialistischer Deutscher Studentbund. I would say that the Socialist groups are the most active, but in my opinion do very little. The conservatives, liberals...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and all groups at Davidson sponsor speakers, and that is about all they do here. I look on something like what Marvin Sparrow and his tutors are doing as more important than having speeches. But I question Holmes’ assertion that the German student is more aware; for the most part, I mean, they are much like Americans.

REALISTIC

Let us take a realistic look at the whole problem of attempting a comparison of the educational system of Davidson College and that of Philipps University, Marburg, Germany. What too many people have tried to do is to compare what essentially is a graduate school with a college. We come to Europe to study during our Junior Year. Why? Because the German student who enters the University after the Gymnasium is essentially at the same educational level as a junior in an American college. The Gymnasium is what may be called a combination of an American high school and junior college, and when the student arrives at the University, he has finished his required math, physics, biology, chemistry, history, foreign languages, etc., and knows in what he wants to specialize.

SPECIALIST

So he enters the University having finished his liberal arts studies (here, it might be added, with much emphasis on science) and enters essentially a graduate school to study medicine, law, philosophy, history, etc. During our first semester in the vast majority of cases, we have only taken part in the lectures, not the various types of seminars which are the real core of the German University System. The lectures for a German student are the “frosting for cakes,” and not the heart of the matter. Then when we look at the seminars we find a “free-out system,” if you want to call it that, but also, surprisingly enough, grades. The German law student, for example, does one research paper and then three written interpretations of the text in class. On each of these, he receives a grade which then determines whether he receives a passing grade at the end of the semester. As is evident, one only passes or fails a course, but he does receive grades within.

PREPARED

Is the American college student in his freshman year as well prepared as a first-semester student at the German University? I maintain that he is not. Does anyone really think he is able to do independent work in history, for example, after the usual high school preparation? Except in unusual cases, no. As it looks from here, the American college system has been shaped by the necessity of further preparing ‘pupils’ who have come from the average high school. But of course, with average high schools improving, the quality and preparedness of the ‘pupil’ increases so as to require now that the college must provide the opportunities for a “student.”

But from my own experience at Davidson, I feel that for the most part we are still “pupils,” although there are those among us who are “students.” So the challenge for Davidson is to be able to offer that program for students while yet retaining a strong program for pupils and preparing both groups for further education on the level of the German University System, i.e., the American graduate school.

ROLE DIFFERS

We should remember that the role of the college (Davidson included) is different than that of a grad school. It seems to me that Davidson is now moving in the direction of offering independent work (guided study) for its students. In other words, Davidson is moving to meet its challenge, but it must always remember that there are both pupils and students, and not just one or the other.

VERY DIFFERENT

The two educational systems are very different and so the role of the college cannot be said to be that of the German university. In fact, the American college stands in between high school and grad school, and its job should be not only of providing a final education for many, but also of providing an “in-between education,” finishing one's general education and moving one in preparation for continuing education on the grad school level. This is the role of the college. Since it is not a German University, why try to conform it into such a system? In the past, Davidson has, in my opinion, discovered its proper role; today once more we are trying to conform to the ever-changing requirements: let us change, but always let us place ourselves in the proper role of the American college.

Fools’ Names "2222" And Fools’ Faces The Sins Of The Fathers

HIGHER EDUCATION and its role in the development of the New South is a topic of considerable concern to many people in the South and the United States; but few of these people are the students who are currently enrolled in Southern universities and colleges or who soon will be matriculating. The overwhelming majority of undergraduate and graduate students in these institutions simply do not involve themselves in and seriously question the educational process through which they are being ground. Why not?

BEFORE TRYING to solve this riddle of non-involvement, perhaps it is necessary to ask if it is a valuable, worthwhile endeavor for students to critically question the form and content of their educational process. I think that most educators would certainly maintain that the student should not accept, unquestioningly, what he is being taught: to question what one is being taught is part of a liberal education. But there is a vast difference between questioning what is being taught and questioning how it is being taught. And, I believe, most educators now in the South do not want their students to question the how of education, not only in the classroom, but how things are done, run, on the campus at large. They shudder with fear to think that what happened at Berkeley might happen to them. The students at Berkeley were not questioning the what of education, but, rather, the how, how things were being done.

WHAT THE EDUCATORS fail to realize is that to students, being taught to question the what of education cannot be separated from questioning the how of education. One process of questioning inevitably leads to the other. In fact, it is only for purposes of analysis that the how and the what of education can be separated; for, properly conceived, education can and must be questioning both the what and the how. Now, if you grant, as most educators do, that students must question the what of education then you must grant that they should question the how of education. It is, therefore, a worthwhile endeavor for students to critically question the content and form of their educational process.

BUT TO RETURN to the original question, why are students in the South not involved in their educational process? Why are these students so traditionally apathetic? Obviously, there are many causes; there is no one reason. At Davidson, for instance, one of these reasons is the regionalism and homogeneity of the students and faculty. We have our quotas of Jews, Northerners, Westerners, Negroes, Easterners, and Catholics to fill. We are not challenged by cultures which are not our own. There is a great deal of difference between reading about these people and being brought into daily contact with them. As Duke's Dr. Barnes Woodhall has said: “College is a great deal student-to-student, and if students are going to educate each other then you’ve got to get a cross-section of students.”

BUT I BELIEVE that the principal cause of this lack of student involvement is that we in the South do not allow or encourage students to critically question. They do not question the what and the how of education. If a student persists in questioning the what of education, he is “put down" by both his classmates and his professors. Why should he keep butting his head against the wall? He quits questioning and does not get involved; he feeds back the required information to the professor. And Southern educators know that if a student continues to question the what of education that he will begin to question the how of education, and they are afraid of his doing that. They do not want “a Berkeley” at their school. This is why students at Davidson will not be put on committees under the new Faculty Constitution—the faculty does not want its how to be questioned.

IT IS TERRIBLY HARD to break down traditional educational patterns, and the pattern of non-questioning and non-involvement has been ingrained in the South for a long time. Both students and faculty have come to accept it as a fact of educational life. One simply does not question what is. And this pattern will not be changed until students are taught to question the what and how of education. And, I believe, this is the key to the problem: Students must be taught to question and to persist in questioning. Thus I lay a majority of the blame for the traditional apathy and lack of involvement on Southern campuses at the feet of those who educate. They have not taught their charges to question and to become involved.

THERE IS an overriding and pervasive aura of authority on Southern campuses which stifles enthusiasm and involvement. The student is taught that he cannot or should not challenge authority and orthodoxy and he does not: he keeps his cool. How can the situation be improved? I think that there must be a change in this attitude of authority: students will have to be taught new ways of thinking and doing, of questioning the what and how of education. Who must effect this change?

NO ONE CAN do it but the educators themselves. For if education rests upon the premise that the elders have something to transmit, then it is they who must transmit this change. If they do not, the guilt is upon their hands, “For the sins of the fathers shall be visited upon the sons.”