Page Six January 6, 1967 The Davidsonian

Drinking Finds Acceptance!
By ED EMBREE
Staff Writer

Four out of eight Eastern colleges and universities polled by THE DAVIDSONIAN have some type of policy which permits students
to drink alcoholic beverages on campus. The remaining four colleges and universities have rules prohibiting alcoholic consumption which are loosely
or not at all enforced. Three of the four schools with drinking rules were from the South.

A representative of the Harvard Crimson said that there was no drinking rule whatsoever despite the fact that a Massachusetts
state law states that no one under 21 may possess alcoholic beverages. Hal Wilby, editor of the Amherst Student, stated
that officially the Amherst administration supports the above-named Massachusetts law but that it is not enforced on the campus. The
college does not confiscate alcoholic beverages found on the campus, and beer is usually served at school dances over the
mild objections of the administration. While the fraternity houses are owned by the college, they all have bars. Wilby stated
that unofficially the college administration supported a change in the existing state law.

Georgetown University Hoya writer, Joel O'Brian, commented that the university rule against alcoholic possession and consumption on campus was recently
dropped. The change in policy followed a period when the rule had not been enforced. O'Brian said that there had
been no appreciable damage to the dorms since the rule change.

The editor of the George Washington University Hatchet also reported that the university had recently changed its rule. Alcoholic beverages
may now be consumed provided that a recognized campus organization requests permission for serving the beverage. Alcoholic beverages may only
be served by the caterer, Slater Food Service, and with the permission of the organization’s faculty advisor. Liquor is kept
by the male students in their dorm rooms. Since the fraternities own their houses, they have not been covered by
previous rules about consumption. The change in the rule became effective Nov. 1 as a result of a campaign by
the current Student Council.

Farther south at Washington and Lee University, a representative of the Ring Tum Phi stated that there is a trustee
rule prohibiting drinking in the dorms, at athletic events, and at dances. This rule actually covers only the games, dances,
and freshmen dorms since most of the upperclassmen live in off-campus fraternity houses, which are not covered by the rule.
The student stated that the rule is strictly enforced except in the single upperclass dorm for Independents. He reported that
there is isolated damage to the fraternity houses as a result of drinking, but the repairs are made by the
fraternities. A general rule on gentlemanly conduct governs excessive conduct on the part of Washington and Lee students in the
community.

The news editor of the Sewanee Purple of the University of the South stated that the university maintains an unpopular
in loco parentis policy toward drinking. The policy was recently changed by the regents from a policy which permitted alcoholic
consumption. The reason given by the editor for the change was that the regents had held a recent meeting on
campus during one of the big party weekends. There can be no liquor or beer in the dorms now, but
enforcement is lax, said the editor, probably as a result of the past policy. The fraternity houses are owned by
the university, but the houses are reported to have beer machines. The editor stated that on party weekends the dean
usually warns the fraternities to be moderate in their drinking and to do all drinking upstairs in the house.

At the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, a representative of The Daily Tarheel described the Carolina drinking rule
as “vague.” The official policy of the university is to prohibit alcoholic consumption on campus, but there is very lax
enforcement of the rule, according to the Carolina Student. He stated that there seemed to be “tacit approval” of drinking
by the university administration. Some of the fraternity houses are owned by the college while others are not, so the
rule varies from house to house. The Daily Tarheel representative stated that there was probably more damage to the fraternity
houses due to drinking than to the dormitories. Since there is no enforcement of the rule by the administration, there
has been little student pressure to change the policy.

The editor of the Duke University Chronicle stated that the Duke drinking rule was changed in the fall of 1963
to allow alcoholic consumption in non-public places on campus. This allows drinking in dorm rooms, fraternity houses, and commons rooms.
Although the rule is stricter in the women's dorms, it is not strongly enforced.

KENT GLADSTONE
Wreck Claims Life Of Kent Gladstone

K. Kent Gladstone, 20, a Davidson student who transferred to Guilford College this year, died early Dec. 28 in Greensboro
when his car hit a bridge abutment. Gladstone, a native of High Point, lived at 1833 Banking St. in Greensboro
and was a junior at Guilford. While at Davidson, he was a member of Alpha Tau Omega, a staff writer
for THE DAVIDSONIAN, and a psychology major.

By MARVIN ELLISON
Staff Writer

Several professors will open their homes to students Sunday evening while the faculty considers proposals for the continuation of open
house next semester. At the request of the Student Council, the faculty will continue the Sunday evening tradition, but only
on a trial basis. Because of the decline of student participation, “there seems to be a big question in the
minds of the faculty whether this practice still serves the purpose it was intended to have,” said Bill Watson, a
Student Council member. After talking with a number of professors, Watson said, “From what I have heard and observed, the
general attitude of the faculty is that open house is a good idea and that professors enjoy seeing students outside
the classroom, but students do not take advantage of it.” A letter explaining the proposals of the Student Council will
be sent to each faculty member. A professor may wish to choose one Sunday of every month to have open
house throughout next semester, or he may decide not to participate. Watson concluded by saying, “It seems that while students
wish to be able to read in the catalogue that we can associate with our professors and visit their homes,
few do. We may be keeping up a dying tradition, but many students love the idea and will hate to
see it go.”

DOCTOR FEEL-GOOD
Remedy Offered For College Ills
Patterson Prescribes Women And Liquor

Girl students and a wet campus are possible cures to the lack of intellectual pursuit at Davidson, said Dr. Ernest
F. Patterson, professor of economics, in chapel Tuesday. He spoke out against compulsory ROTC and excessive nationalism.

Set-Up Scored

The present policy on tickets to basketball games was protested by a unanimously passed resolution in Wednesday night's Student Council
meeting. The ticket policy, according to the resolution which was sent to Dr. Tom Scott, President Martin, and members of
the faculty Athletic Committee, has “the effect of alienating the Student Body from the Athletic program.” The Student Council called
for “a return to the half-price ticket for date of Davidson students.”The removal of ‘complimentary’ from tickets given to students,
the removal of the reserved seat restrictions, and the cessation of the ID card checks at the Coliseum gates, a
policy which serves absolutely no useful purpose.”

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

Sunday Night Open House
The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding
open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Brinkley
Fredericksen
Kelton
Patterson
McGavock
Martin, J. G.
Minter
Rhodes
Workman

No Progress Made On New Library Site
With the contents of a library expert's letter still undisclosed, the location of the proposed new library remains undecided. The
Library Committee, which has been studying possible locations for the past several months, has not met since the school received
a site recommendation from Dr. Keyes D. Metcalf, an expert on library planning. Metcalf, retired director of the Harvard Library
in Cambridge, Mass., visited the campus in November to evaluate several proposed locations. His letter to President D. Grier Martin
will not be released until after the committee meets to consider it. This meeting will probably be held in the
latter part of next week. Still to be heard from is J. Russell Bailey, an architect from Orange, Va., who
will meet with the committee when he visits the campus Feb. 1. No definite announcement concerning the site or the
construction of the library will be made until that time.

Police Continue Investigation Of $100,000 Showboat Fire
Police are still investigating the possibility of arson in yesterday’s early morning burning of the riverboat Robert E. Lee. Iredell
County Deputy R. L. Warren told THE DAVIDSONIAN this morning that there is no definite proof of arson. “It's just
a theory,” Warren said. Warren said the sheriff's office is going through a list of people connected with the boat
in an effort to find the cause of the fire. The fire occurred sometime between 5 and 6 a.m. yesterday.
Damage was estimated at more than $100,000, but there were no injuries. Warren said that a chain across a dirt
road leading to the landing was down and that police found fresh tire tracks, beer cans, a pack of cigarettes,
and a door knob that had been twisted off the building. He said laboratory experts are searching for fingerprints on
the cans and door knob. A number of Davidson residents were awakened by fire sirens yesterday morning as the Davidson
Volunteer Fire Department was first to answer the alarm. Engines from the Cornelius and Mount Mourne departments were also on
hand. However, the boat, a building containing a snack bar and souvenir stand built on the land, and the pier
were burning out of control when firemen arrived. Only a portion of the pier was saved. The riverboat, which was
the largest boat on Lake Norman, was used occasionally for Davidson fraternity parties. With a capacity of 150 persons, the
boat made regular outings on the lake, as well as charter cruises. Police are speculating that the fire may be
connected with a series of five other fires on Lake Norman in the past two months. Arson is also suspected
in these cases.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Bill Cockrill, Bruce Weihe, Bob Dunham, Robert Pyeatt, Chuck Green, Tom Wheatley, Allan Lewis, Ed Embree, Marvin Ellison, Franklin Anderson,
Brodie Brown, Lewis Lavine, Danny Coltrane, George Cretekos, Marvin Robinson, Sam Bell, Bob Stubbs, Don Sewell, Cliff Duke, and Dale
Durham.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

Baker (Continued from page one)
out of the Bible, with the Bible!" This inspired Powers to voice his opinions on the age-old problem of demon
rum. Needless to say, Powers is upset over the liberalized drinking rules at Davidson. He then stated that “nothin’ good
ever comes from drinking. If you ever see any good come from whiskey, you come by and tell me all
about it.” The Grim Baker also offered his views on the racial issue. “God intended the world to have two
races,” Powers said, which leads one to believe that mixed marriages go all the way back to Adam and Eve.
"I was brought up under the belief that birds of a feather flock together. Nowadays they’re trying to mix up
black birds with white birds and I just don’t see it.” For the most part, Powers says it's a quiet
life working from 11 to 7 at the bakery. “It gets awful lonely late at night without you boys around
here,” he mused.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985

Expecting intellectual conversation over a slow, delightful dinner, he found himself having to battle to get food and finally alone
five minutes after the meal had started. To cure this lack of intellectualism and the noticeable sloppiness of many of
the students, Patterson suggested that the college allow drinking, and admit girls to the college. But he was pessimistic about
these changes being passed in the near future as, he chuckled.

Carteret Solicitor To Speak To YRC
The Hon. Sherman T. Rock, Carteret County Solicitor, will address the Young Republican Club, Wednesday, Jan. 11. Rock, a resident
of Morehead City, was elected during the 1966 general elections. He ran for Congressman from the Third Congressional District in
1964, but he was unsuccessful, polling 40 percent of the vote. A native of Illinois, Rock has been a lawyer
in cases involving agencies of the federal government, including the major steel wage controversies. He is at present the chairman
of the North Carolina Alliance of Conservative Republicans. Joe Beard, president of the Young Republicans, described Rock as being “an
outspoken opponent of liberalism.” Beard invited everyone who is interested in hearing Rock to next week's meeting.

TASTEE FREEZ
For Reservations
TASTEE SUB
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS

“Coke” and “Coca-Cola” are registered trademarks which identify only the product of The Coca-Cola Company.

TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE

Monday—Friday
The Hub Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-9576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Are you sure today is homecoming?

Any game is more fun with ice-cold Coke on hand. Coca-Cola has the taste you never get tired of... always
refreshing. That's why things go better with Coke... after Coke... after Coke.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. CONCORD, N. C.
