**Corrected Text:**

---

PETROS: Calling 'Em The Way I See 'Em

By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Davidson put the better basketball team on the floor Tuesday night and played well enough to win. They had their
troubles, what with missing foul shots and making turnovers, but a bigger factor in the loss was the added lift
Vanderbilt got by playing in its home gym, with its home refs and all its home fans. All extra opposition
was something the ‘Cats could have done without.

In the first place, Vanderbilt’s team, presently ranked third in the nation, does pretty well for itself. In addition, the
officiating was as partisan as the spectators, or so it seemed. Johnny Hagen, Vandy’s hotshot guard, played the last 18
and a half minutes of regulation time and the entire overtime period with four fouls. Meanwhile, he was in several
collisions, all called offensive fouls against Davidson. His care, or the officials’, paid off when he tossed in the crusher
with :02 left in the game.

Wayne Huckel is still wondering what he did to deserve the technical foul late in the game. The call came
at a key time in Vanderbilt’s comeback. Cheerleaders and players both tabbed the game as a hometown ref job. Meanwhile,
Lefty maintained a very eloquent silence.

Nearly every Davidson foul shooter found himself confronted with 11,000 unified voices encouraging him to choke. The Davidson cheerleaders were
manhandled and kept from getting up to cheer for the Wildcats. Each time the Wildcats’ cheerleaders would jump up from
their seats to cheer, the Vandy fans in the row behind them would grab them and shove them back into
their seats. A policeman, asked to intervene, merely chuckled: “Your fans would do the same thing.”

One policeman had to take a little more active role. A fan had come behind the Davidson bench and was
pounding Lefty on the back as a Vanderbilt shot went through the net. Trainer Tom Couch told the boy to
get back to his seat. The fan had just invited Couch into the aisle to settle things when a policeman
restored order.

Any team playing in Nashville expects to hear enthusiastic cheering for Vanderbilt. But courtesy and sportsmanship on the part of
the fans is something else that a team expects. It would be a shame if a team as good as
Vanderbilt would gain the reputation as a team that wins with partial referees and dangerous spectators.

In light of the odds stacked against them, the Wildcats did a fantastic job. Despite a strong team, referees, and
a houseful of screaming, fighting fans, Davidson answered a big question for its followers: it is a top-notch team. With
the team spirit as high as it is after that ball game, the 'Cats could really be hard for anyone
else to beat. The confidence that they can handle Vandy in the Sugar Bowl Tournament is shared by every member
of the team. If the ’Cats play a good game against William & Mary this week, it is very unlikely
that they will fall in the national ratings, even with the loss.

Cats Watch Bubble Burst, Lose Nashville Nightmare

By DANNY WHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

For 44 minutes and 58 seconds Tuesday night, the surprising Davidson Wildcats, led by a rejuvenated Rod Knowles, outran, outshot,
and outdefensed the nationally third-ranked Vanderbilt Commodores. But they lost in the last two seconds of the overtime contest, 81-79,
on an off-balance jump shot by Tommy Hagen.

Even in defeat, the Wildcats proved to the basketball world that they are to be reckoned with. Entering the Vandy
game with four unimpressive victories, the ‘Cats had yet to put forth a concerted effort. Davidson coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell
summed up the defeat better than anyone. “We proved for the first time that we can play anybody in the
country and beat them.”

Not only did the defeat prove that preseason expectations of the ‘Cats were not too great, but it also produced
one of the finest efforts by senior captain Rod Knowles. Knowles, outshone by the talented sophomore duo of Mike Maloy
and Doug Cook in the ‘Cats first four games, poured in a game-high 22 points and pulled in 19 rebounds.

Winless Matmen Lose

Highly regarded William & Mary proved too powerful for the Davidson wrestlers in a match last Friday in Williamsburg, Va.
The Wildcats lost to the Indians 27-7, their third loss in three matches. However, the meet was closer than the
score indicates. Valuable team points slipped away from the ‘Cats in close matches involving Dean Cromartie, Jack Jacobs, and Joe
Cabanas.

Only two Davidson wrestlers kept the meet from becoming a complete rout. Colin Hudson stalemated his opponent in the 123-pound
class for two points, while Lowell Bryan, team captain and Southern Conference heavyweight champion, picked up five points for pinning
his man. Coach Charles Parker, adding that William & Mary has the strongest squad in the Southern Conference, evaluated the
meet with the Indians as a good one and said that the team’s performance went about as he had expected.

THOSE WILD, WILD, WILDKITTENS

Jubilant frosh celebrate upset win.

Frosh Edge Blue Imps With Exciting Comeback

Duke's Blue Imps, generally regarded as one of the best freshman basketball teams in the nation, were toppled by the
Davidson freshmen, 106-103. The come-from-behind victory made many fans gain new respect for the Wildkittens.

“We just never gave up,” said Ricky Snipes, who had to leave the game because of a cut forearm early
in the first half. Snipes, however, reentered the contest and helped the ‘Kittens overcome a second-half 24-point deficit.

Duke jumped to an early lead in the game with the height of 6-10 Randy Denton and the sharpshooting of
Dick Devenzio leading the way. Denton got into foul trouble early and had to sit out the rest of the
half, but the Imps maintained a 12-point lead. The halftime score was 51-40.

The Duke freshmen came out strong the second half, increasing their lead to 24 points with six and a half
minutes left. Then things began to work for Davidson. In the next one and a half minutes, Denton, Litz, and
Brad Evans fouled out. The press that Davidson had just applied began to work, and the ‘Kittens cut into the
Duke lead, behind the scoring and rebounding of Steve Kirley. Kirley took game honors with 39 points and 17 rebounds.
Kirley also scored the last four points, blocked Duke's last shot, and then stole a pass to seal up the
game.

“With three minutes left and us still 11 points down,” said Duncan Postma, “Snipes told me, ‘We've got ‘em now:
they're really shook.” And with Coach Conboy keeping us fired up, we did catch them.”

“Since they were guarding Snipes so close,” Kirley added, “I was able to get under the boards more. There I
caught a lot of fouls.” Kirley was 13 for 16 at the foul line.

Only seven Wildkittens saw action Saturday night: Snipes, Kirley, Postma, Affeldt, Pierce, Stelzer, and Early.

Merry Christmas From M & M SODA SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

The Wildcats’ major problem is lack of experience. Out of nine starters, five are freshmen, who will need a lot
more experience on the college mats before they can be expected to equal their more seasoned opponents, he said. Parker
added, “You're just not going to win many meets with that many freshmen. After getting more experience, they'll help our
team a lot. We'll be a lot stronger after Christmas when Kerry Keith comes back.” Keith, a top wrestler in
the Southern Conference last season, has been sidelined with a football injury.

The grapplers’ next match will be against UNC in Johnston Gym, Friday at 2. Parker said, “I’ve seen UNC wrestle
once before this season and they’ve got a good squad. They beat VMI (who defeated the ‘Cats earlier this season).
We sneaked by them last year. Maybe we can do it again.”

“Rodney definitely played his best game this year and maybe...

---“His best ever,” said Driesell. “He played good defense on Perry Wallace (nine points) and boxed him off the boards.”

Led by Knowles, Davidson jumped off to an early lead in the frantic contest and held a five-point lead at
half-time, 44-39. The ‘Cats increased their lead to 13 points, 58-45, with 14:30 remaining but then the bottom fell out.
The Commodores started to break through the tenacious Davidson defense and began to draw fouls in the process. Meanwhile, the
Davidson offensive machine slowed down and connected on only six field goals in the last 15 minutes of the game.

After Vandy had trimmed the ‘Cat lead to three points with 3:50 left in the game, Driesell sent the ‘Cats
into a freeze. The Commodores turned the strategy into failure as they stole the ball twice to forge into a
one-point lead with 50 seconds left. Wayne Huckle then connected on the second of two free throws after being fouled
with 37 seconds remaining. Vandy played for one last shot, but Hagen’s shot at the buzzer was off its mark,
sending the game into overtime.

“We didn’t make our free throws. That was the difference in the game,” commented Driesell. “The strange thing is that
we went to their stadium the day before just to practice foul shots.”

The loss leaves the nationally eighth-ranked Wildcats with a 4-1 record going into Friday's contest with conference foe William &
Mary. Davidson has an opportunity to avenge the loss to Vandy in the Sugar Bowl Invitational Tournament to be held
Dec. 29-30 in New Orleans. The ‘Cats face tough Memphis State while Vanderbilt goes against Michigan State in the opening
round action. Should both teams win, they would meet in the finals.

In action earlier in the week, Davidson romped by Big Ten opponent Michigan, 91-70, behind Mike Maloy and Rodney Knowles.
Knowles led the offense with 18 points followed by Huckle with 15 and Kroll with 14.

The Davidsonian
December 14, 1967
Page Three
(Staff Photos by Weems)

MALOY IN POSITION FOR REBOUND
Got a dozen against the Wolverines.

Tankmen Trim ‘Dogfish To Land Initial Victory
By DOUG HAYNES
Sports Writer

Davidson's swim team lost to Wake Forest and then won a slim victory over The Citadel. Coach Tom Stevens was
pleased with the performances in both meets as, once again, several school records were broken. The Deacons downed the ‘Cats
65-39, while the Bulldogs fell 53-51.

“I am well pleased with the boys’ work so far this year. Swimming is a game of conditioning and to
compete as some of our boys have this early in the season shows they are really hard workers. If they
keep this up we will be OK.”

Against the Demon Deacons, the ‘Catfish showed this competitive spirit. Eddie Beach demonstrated the ability which has made him team
captain as he earned two firsts and a second. He broke the school record in the 1000 freestyle with a
time of 11:59.3. Freshman Jack Steele continued his assault on the record book as he also set a record in
the 200 yard freestyle, but lost the race. Steele finished with two seconds, and Mac Davis, the other Davidson standout,
finished with two firsts.

Against The Citadel, Davidson scored the fewest number of points a team can score and still win as it squeezed
out a 53-51 victory. Steele grabbed three first places—in the 100, 200, and 500 yard freestyles. He set Davidson records
in the 100 and 500, and it should be noted he swam the 500 with only three minutes’ rest. Beach
again set a record, this time in the 200 yard breaststroke, beating his old record of 2:35 by three seconds,
2:31.8. Beach also won another first and one second.

“We were able to win this one by putting together several first and second place finishes in the same event,”
Stevens stated. “We did it in three events, thus gathering 24 points. We got first in three other events, giving
us 15 more points. The rest were earned on various seconds and thirds.”

Coach Stevens said that the next meet will be with Clemson University Jan. 11. The meet will be in Johnston
Gym.

Wildcats Hope To Improve Ratings In Tourney Action

Davidson's basketball Wildcats take to the tournaments during the Christmas holidays in an attempt to strengthen their national prestige. The
basketballers will participate in the Charlotte Invitational on Dec. 18-19, and the Sugar Bowl Tournament, Dec. 29-30, in New Orleans.

Davidson coach Lefty Driesell bluntly stated the importance of the Christmas tournaments following Davidson’s overtime loss to Vanderbilt. “If we
can beat William and Mary and then win our own Charlotte Invitational and then beat Vandy in the Sugar Bowl
Tournament, there's no reason why we shouldn't be the number three team in the nation.”

In addition to Davidson, the Charlotte Invitational will feature Temple, Rice, and the surprising Redskins of Miami University (Ohio). The
Wildcats will face Miami in the opening game of the tournament on Monday, while Temple squares off with Rice in
the second game.

Miami of Ohio, which finished the 1966-67 with a 14-10 record, began the 1967 campaign with an upset victory over
Dayton—the fifth-ranked team in the nation at the time. Temple is also strong and has eight returning lettermen from last
year's squad which posted a 20-8 record on its way to a berth in the NCAA Eastern Regionals.

The Sugar Bowl Tournament in New Orleans ranks as one of the highlights of the holiday tournaments as the eighth-ranked
Wildcats are expected to meet the third-ranked Vanderbilt Commodores in a rematch in the finals. Davidson meets Memphis State University
in the first round while Vanderbilt faces Michigan State. The Tigers from Memphis State are rated as a strong contender
under Coach Moe Iba, who led the team to a 17-9 record last year. All starters return from last year's
squad which was second in the nation in defense.

SHERRILL'S JEWELERS
MAIN STREET

Michel: Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

DAVIDSON 375-9723
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

modores in a rematch in the finals. Davidson meets Memphis State University in the first round while Vanderbilt faces Michigan
State. The Tigers from Memphis State are rated as a strong contender under Coach Moe Iba, who led the team
to a 17-9 record last year. All starters return from last year's squad which was second in the nation in
defense.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Where’s the best place in town to eat?
THE WILDCAT DEN
We specialize in:
Pizza
Delicatessen Sandwiches
BIG Hamburgers
“Specials” different each day
Cheese Cake
Carry-out Orders
Bulk Quantities
Quick, efficient service
In a hurry? Call ahead so we can have your dinner waiting when you arrive.
See you at THE WILDCAT DEN!
