Page Four December 1, 1967 The Davidsonian

Fewer Students Visiting High Schools This Year
By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

The Admissions Office is continuing to use student representatives for high school college day programs, but to a lesser degree.
According to Jon Regen, assistant director of admissions, there are two reasons for the decrease in student involvement in the
programs. The primary reason, he said, is that most students have not shown sufficient interest and have been unwilling to
spend the time in preparation. “Earlier this year we had two orientation meetings for those interested in participating,” Regen added.
“At the first we had just 11 students; only eight showed up for the second.”

Length Of Camp Unchanged

Rumors that the 6-week summer training camp for advanced ROTC students was about to be extended to eight weeks were
denied Wednesday by Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science. Outlaw said that tentative plans call for the training
program at Ft. Bragg to begin around June 15 and to end about Aug. 1. He said the rumors might
have resulted from discussion of a plan to stagger the 6-week periods, with half of the cadets arriving two weeks
later than the other half. Although the camp would be run for eight weeks, Outlaw said, students would receive only
six weeks of training. Outlaw emphasized, however, that the plan is only under discussion, and has not yet been adopted.
The reason for the plan was the overcrowding of facilities at the camp which are used mainly during the first
two weeks of summer training. More than 3,000 cadets are expected at camp this year.

“We just can’t send a student who is totally unprepared,” he said. “Those who came to the programs and those
who worked in the program last year have been used, but they are the only ones who have shown sufficient
interest.” This year the Admissions Office staff has been increased by the appointment of one of last year's graduating seniors,
John Gresham, as an assistant. This, according to Regen, is the second reason for the decrease in student participation. “We
have used students most of the time,” Regen said, “but if Gresham is available, he goes.”

The program was initiated last year by the Admissions Office and the Student Council. The program was headed last year
by Tom Earnhardt. When Earnhardt was elected president of the Student Council, he appointed Ken Tarleton, now a senior, to
act as the liaison officer heading up the college day programs. Due to a misunderstanding about responsibilities of a liaison
officer, Tarleton resigned his post early this year, Regen said. Since that time, there has been no student in charge
of the program. “The job involves making sure that there is a representative at each program,” said Regen. “This means
that unless the liaison officer can get someone to go to each one, he must go himself. It is a
big responsibility.” Regen added that once the school committed itself to sending representatives to college day programs, it must send
a representative. Two times this year, representatives failed to show up, he said. “We need to be represented,” he added,
“but we also need to send a qualified person, one who is interested in taking a positive attitude in representing
Davidson.”

“I was pleased with the program last year,” he said, “and the students who have worked this year have done
a fine job. But next year we are going to have to get started sooner,” Regen added. “I hope and
expect that the Student Council will appoint a student who can work with the program before the end of the
school year so that we can make our best effort in the program.”

Sunday Night Open House

The following homes will be open this Sunday night at 8:
Bryan
Jackson Court
Burts 431 N. Main
Woodmansee Pine & Lorimer
Polley Ney Circle
Regen Lorimer

Reynolds Lecture Series To Sponsor Symposium

The Reynolds Lectureship program will sponsor a writer’s symposium on modern Southern literature here on March 18-19. The three speakers
will be C. Hugh Holman and Louis D. Rubin, Jr., both of the University of North Carolina, and Walter Sullivan
of Vanderbilt University. The general topic will be “The Relevance of Modern Southern Literature.” George E. Core, instructor in English,
said that this will be the first real symposium ever held here. Since students may participate, Core urged all who
are interested to read the books which will be discussed. These will soon be available at the bookstore.

(Staff Photos by Weems) Murphy tests a new vending machine for a canned soft drink.

Phone 892-2111

THAT GREASY KID STUFF

Lawrence Kearns, Union custodian, washes oil off the College Union terrace. The terrace was oiled over the Thanksgiving holidays, for
some unknown reason. One Union Board member theorized that some local youngsters spread the oily substance on the terrace to
slide across it on bicycles. It provided a slick reception for students returning on Sunday.

Five Refrigerators Found During Holiday Search

A recent search of dormitory rooms revealed five illegal refrigerators, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing. The
search was prompted by the repeated blowing of fuses in Watts Dormitory due to overloading electrical circuits, Mrs. Nicholls said.
Emphasizing that the search did not involve looking inside closets or under beds, Mrs. Nicholls said that those students who
were found to have refrigerators “would only be required to remove them.” The rule forbidding refrigerators was originally inserted in
the dormitory regulations because of the overloading of electrical circuits that would result, she said. “Refrigerators are usually discovered during
Christmas vacation,” she continued, “when the power is turned off and the milk or cheese which some students leave begins
to spoil.” The search, by members of dormitory staffs, took place during the holidays and on Monday and turned up
the five illegal refrigerators.

Commenting on damage within the dormitories since classes began in September, Mrs. Nicholls said that damage was no worse than
last year at the same time. She added that there is still the problem of no judicial action being taken
by the student government against those responsible for damage. The Student Council took steps to remedy the situation by censuring
the Investigating Committee two weeks ago. The chairman of the committee, Buddy Newsom, rebutted the charges at the Student Council
meeting Tuesday. The Investigating Committee is charged with investigating all reports of violations of the Student Body Regulations or the
Honor System and presenting the evidence to the proper court. The problem had apparently been in lack of communications between
the committee and the two courts, according to a member of the Student Council. Mrs. Nicholls refrained from criticism of
the student judiciary, but expressed a strong desire that something be done.

Staff Members To Attend Meet

Several DAVIDSONIAN staff members will participateHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in the United States Student Press Association Southern Region Meeting in Raleigh, Dec. 7-10. The focus of the conference will
be on trends in social change in the South. Terry Sanford and Julian Bond have been invited to speak. Thursday
and Friday the conference will involve group discussions and seminars. Saturday the delegates will put out a newspaper and Sunday
will be devoted to newspaper criticism. The United States Student Press Association (USSPA) is the major student-run collegiate press organization
in the nation. It publishes Collegiate Press Service, the largest collegiate news service. USSPA is closely associated with the National
Student Association. Numerous national USSPA leaders plan to attend the meeting. Two other regional meetings will also be held in
February and March, at the University of Alabama and in Texas or Oklahoma. Nellie Jo Lee, of East Carolina, chairman
of the Southern Region, said that it was probable that Sanford would accept the invitation to speak at the meeting.
Sam Boyte, DAVIDSONIAN editor, will be one of the seminar leaders.

OUR RUSSELL STOVER CHRISTMAS CANDIES HAVE ARRIVED .5 to 1/2 Lb. Boxes PARKS REXALL DRUGS Open 9 a.m. to 8
p.m.

be done to remedy the situation. She has advocated the adoption of the Residence Hall Association proposal as a solution
to dormitory damage.

3 From Faculty On Committee

The Student Council Committee on Student Regulations will be the first student committee to have voting members from the faculty.
According to committee chairman Mike Carroll, faculty representation makes the Student Regulations Committee “unique” and is a reciprocal response to
increases in student representation on faculty committees. Dr. Alexander J. McKelway, assistant professor of Bible and religion, has been chosen
as the voting member from the faculty. Other members are Will H. Terry, pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church,
and Thomas O. Pinkerton, associate professor of German. Carroll indicated that the committee is presently operating under the belief that
with the implementation of the Blue Sky program, students should have more responsibility for their social atmosphere just as they
will have more responsibility for their own education. “We hope to make concrete suggestions for a more realistic system,” Carroll
stated. He expressed his hope that a new system would be a united body of student-faculty regulations which would replace
the two separate systems now in use. In reviewing the current system of regulations and punishments, its history, effects, and
justifications, the committee will employ a student opinion poll and views of students not on the committee to aid them
in reaching a decision.

Handbook Deadline To Be Set

Tom Baker, newly elected editor of the ‘Wildcat Handbook,’ said Wednesday that he plans to prevent any delay in publication
by including copy and publication deadlines in his printer's contract. Baker said that the contract he makes with whoever prints
the handbook will include a provision that the copy must be submitted to the printer by mid-June and that the
handbook must be ready for distribution by mid-August. The ‘Wildcat Handbook’ was not ready this year until after school had
started. Baker said he plans to return next year to the policy of distributing it to the freshmen before they
arrive at school.

Where is the best place in town to get really GOOD Food? Why THE WILDCAT DEN, of course!

I graduate because:
a. I'd lose my individuality.
b. It’s graduate school for me.
c. My mother wants me to be a doctor.

our Bell System teammates, the Bell telephone companies. This takes a lot of thought, decisions, strong stands for our convictions,
(and sometimes some mistakes... we're human, every 160,000 of us). Individuality pays off. Not only in raises, but in personal
reward as well. Like an engineer who knew deep down that there was a better way to make a certain
wire connector—and did. Or a WE gal who streamlined time-consuming office procedures, and saved us some $63,000 a year. Rewards
and accolades. For saying “No.” For thinking creatively and individually. For doing. Not every hour is Fun Hour, but if
you've got imagination and individuality—you've got it made. With a business like Western Electric. We'll even help you answer b)
with our Tuition Refund program. Come on in and go for President!

Western Electric
MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM

Vending Machine Action
By JOHN WILLIAM
Staff Writer

“When I speak, people act.” Junior Joe Murphy said it, explaining the recent acquisition of several new vending machines for
the dormitories. Murphy, on behalf of the Student Council, has been seeking “bigger and better vending machines,” and evidently he
has found some. Two cold-drink machines were installed Tuesday—one each in Little and Duke dormitories. Murphy made his way through
administrative red tape that led him to see Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing; Robert A. Currie, college business
manager; Currie’s secretary, Mrs. Robert Bordeaux; and Gover Meetze, director of the physical plant. He said the problem was not
to convince the administration of the need for the vending machines but to find the right person to order the
machines. He said other machines have been ordered but have not yet arrived. These include a cigarette machine and a
food machine in Belk, a candy machine in East, a cigarette machine in Duke, a candy machine in Little, and
a cigarette machine and a drink machine similar to that in the gymnasium in Richardson. Murphy said he was especially
pleased with the project “because it proves to the student body that the Student Council performs some tangible functions.” He
said he feels that too many students believe the Student Council does not do anything directly for the students. Murphy
said his next project would be “telephones on every hall.”

Plus, every day we feature a “SPECIAL,” for those who want a full meal. Those of you who have only
a short time to eat, call ahead so that we can have your meal waiting when you arrive! We also
feature “TO GO” orders. You can also buy anything we feature, in bulk. See you while dining at THE WILDCAT
DEN

Murphy Rumbles, Spurs
