Page Six May 5, 1967 The Davidsonian

TRUSTEES HAVE CONTROL
Decision Making Follows Planned Course

ED. NOTE: This is the first of three articles on the decision-making process at Davidson.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Copy Editor

Who makes the decisions at Davidson? Largely, the process of decision making follows a structure in which the Board of
Trustees exercises the ultimate authority in the affairs of the college.

The president is an important figure in this process, for from his office come the coordination and supervision of the
four major areas of the college: the offices of the Dean of the Faculty, Dean of Students, Treasurer and Business
Manager, and Director of Public Relations and Development.

The assignment of specific areas of supervision is a fairly recent innovation. The present structure of the college was determined
in the spring of 1966, when a revised corporate plan evolved. Essentially, what evolved was a plan for decision making.
Some offices, notably that of the Dean of the Faculty, were expanded in scope. For instance, the Dean of the
Faculty now receives reports from the Athletic Department instead of that office's reporting directly to the president. Under the revised
structure, the president's office was relieved of some of the direct supervision of areas of the college. A structure of
channeling reports through the four major offices is provided under the present set-up. Above this, the trustees exercise the ultimate
control over the college.

Impetus for the revised structure first came from the Faculty Self-Study which was made prior to the visit last year
of a committee from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. The trustees subsequently adopted this revised plan.

“We work much more informally than a lot of organizations because we have the advantage of fairly direct channels,” President
D. Grier Martin said. Martin indicated that while the structure is not inflexible, it is followed as carefully as is
possible in a small organization the size of Davidson's.

All of this works by assignment of responsibility, Martin said. He outlined briefly his own role in the process by
pointing out that the four administrative offices receive information, recommendations, and suggestions from trustees, faculty members, students, and alumni. If
one of these four men does not want to make the decision on a matter, he comes to the president.
If the matter is of major importance, a recommendation for a decision will be made to the trustees. “When a
conflict arises, this is part of my job,” Martin said.

The referral of all major decisions regarding broad questions of policy to the Board of Trustees is analogous to the
referral of similar decisions to the owner of any business. In speaking of the role of the trustees, Martin said
that “they own the college.” Trustee control is the nearest thing to ownership that Davidson College has, he said. “They
(the trustees) do have ownership control if they want to exercise it.” Martin went on to point out that this
system of decision making by the trustees works because “there is give and take on both sides,” both on the
part of the administration and the trustees.

In his role as chief executive officer, the head of the faculty, Martin said, “I operate on the theory that
people in re-”

In summary, the job of the president involves decisions in both academic and business matters of the college, as Fred
Sackett, assistant to the president, pointed out. Sackett indicated that in spite of an unusually busy year, with much of
the president’s time being taken up with matters related to the business end of the college, the president has been
active in plans for the faculty constitution and makes time in his schedule whenever he can to sit in on
Blue Sky Committee meetings. “A great deal of leadership for all the areas of the college must come from the
president,” Sackett said.

(Staff Photos by Olson)

MILITARY HISTORY BUFF
Fraley (R) Congratulates Mendenhall

Nineteen Receive Honors At Academic Awards Day

Nineteen students received awards designating them as outstanding students in their respective fields at the annual Academic Awards Day during
Tuesday’s chapel.

rects certain faults of a more decentralized system in which many people were coming directly to the president when decisions
had to be made. “Now when something happens in the academic area, Dean Johnston (Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston)
examines what comes up and talks to the people involved. If it is of major importance, he comes to me,
tells me what he thinks, I may make certain suggestions. If it is more serious, the matter will go to
the trustees.”

Speaking of the structure in general, Martin said that “so far there have been no serious misunderstandings.” He pointed out
that all four officers have a “good understanding” of the types of decisions he wants and expects them to make.
Dr. George L. Abernethy, chairman of the faculty committee on graduate scholarships and fellowships recognized those students receiving graduate fellowships
for study next year.

In drama, Joe Obenshain was selected as the student who has made the greatest contribution to drama during his four
years at Davidson. The P.D. H. Howard Scholarship in chemistry was presented to Tom Kirtley. Two awards were presented in
economics. The Wall Street Journal Award to the student in economics who has made the greatest achievement in that field
while at Davidson went to Jim Wall. Ted Horne won the A. K. Phifer Award, which is awarded to a
rising senior who has distinguished himself in the study of economics. The Rawley P. Turner Memorial Award, presented for the
best dramatic performance of the year, went to John Bailey for his performance in The Skin of Our Teeth. Jim
Shackleford won the Banks Bible Award for distinguished study in that field. The Sandy Black Pre-Med Award for outstanding academic
work in biology and chemistry went to Frank Fleming. The ROTC Military History Award was presented to Chuck Mendenhall.

Those seniors selected for Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities were recognized by Jim Terry, assistant dean of students.
Head Football Coach Homer Smith presented two awards. Lowell Bryan was the recipient of the C. T. Stowe Academic Award.
The George M. King award for the outstanding varsity player went to Bill Webb. The Agnes Sentelle Brown Scholarship and
Award was presented to Kirk Reed. Tom Earnhart won the Gladstone Award for scholarship, leadership, and service to the college
and the community. Recipients of the French Embassy Awards for excellence in the French language were presented to freshmen Peter
Leo and Joe Kilpatrick; sophomore Sam Tallman; junior Bill Anderson; and seniors Doug Woodward, Buford Norman, and Hamp Morris.

Walter Michael Gwilym (L) Attends Wishes Of Diners

Virtue Vs. Vice At The ‘d’

By JOHN BARSER
Staff Writer

singing, instrumental music, and even magic. Tim Gailey (Little Tommy); other members of the cast include Carter Fussell andRichard Loe:
Mike Coltrane (Jenkins the constable); Joe Obenshain (The Reginald Vanderlop family); and Blake Anderson (Mike Slat- ble. Mrs. M. Davis,
and Martha Johnston). Summervacationitis. (How to spot and get rid of it). Responsibility needs the authority to carry out their
responsibilities. The present structure calls for the establishment of a Residence Hall Council to govern and strive for the improvement
of dormitory life.

Pallid peepers. There’s no sparkle in those baby-blue eyes. It’s been knocked out by all those exams. Get that vitality
back. See what good is still left in the world. Go to Expo 67, Montreal. This is tentatively scheduled to
be included in the new Student Body Constitution being prepared by the council. The main change in the proposed constitution
was the insertion in Article VI beneath “Conduct in residence halls” under “prohibitions” a sentence prohibiting any conduct which would
interfere with the maintenance of proper study conditions.

Fluorescent fade-out. That's from being cooped up all winter. What you need for that sallow pallor is some sunshine Vitamin
D. There’s a whole lot of it available at Sunset Beach in Acapulco. Lip lingo. They're letters from good buddies
away for the summer. The best way to avoid them is not to be there when they arrive. Be in
Puerto Rico instead.

An important part of the constitution calls for the establishment of a Residence Hall Council to govern and strive for
the improvement of dormitory life. “We have been discussing the possibility of locals for some time,” said one president, “and
there are several boys who have a firm belief that a local name would not hinder our rush program.”

The members of this council would be composed of a representative from each dormitory (two from Belk), Assistant Dean of
Students Jim Terry, and Supervisor of Dormitories Mrs. Peter Nicholls. “The major advantage that a local fraternity will be able
to offer,” he added, “is a sizable decrease in monthly bills. When the rushees see that the fraternity is offering
the same entertainment and brotherhood that a national house is offering, he can't help but be attracted.” “I want to
emphasize,” he continued, “that we don’t want to lose our national charter. It's just that we are deeply concerned about
our house, and we want to stick together no matter what the outcome of the (May 12) meeting.”

Supporting them are Mike LaPlante as Hiram Stanley, Nell's father; Mrs. Cary Wolf as Lizzie, his housekeeper; Becky Andrews as
Barbara Stanley; and Jim Bowman as Sam Slade, Murgatroyd's henchman.

With such inventive, catchy lines, the hungry audience entertained nightly. A buffet dinner will be served tonight and tomorrow for
the special price of $3 for a Davidson student and his date. The Masquers, under the direction of Rupert Barber,
are presenting this drama in three acts in a Bowery beer hall atmosphere complete with sawdust on the floor. Guests
on the first two nights were served peanuts and popcorn, and between acts, members of the cast and others entertained
with coke or root beer they could drink.

The cast is headed by Ken Scott as the hero, Jack Dalton; Barbara Fagg as Nell, the farmer's daughter; Dave
Jones as Murgatroyd, the dastardly villain. “Unhand me, you villain.” “Curses!” The play is a faithful presentation of a nineteenth-century
melodrama. It contains all the elements of honesty versus treachery, virtue vs. vice, complete with the farmer's innocent daughter, the
mortgage, the slightly dumb hero, and all the dialogue cliches. Faithfully supporting the cast are the audience, who are indeed
to cheer the hero and hiss the villain.

The proposed constitution for the Davidson College Residence Hall Association was adopted today with minor qualifications by the College trustees,
according to trustee President Walter Lingle. Its adoption means that the constitution will next be presented to the faculty for
approval. It has already been approved by the Student Council and the trustees.

On hearing of its adoption by the trustees, Mrs. Nicholls commented that she was “very pleased” with this action and
“highly indebted to the student committee who worked on the Residence Hall proposals and to Dean of Students Richard C.
Burts for his support and invaluable aid” in getting the constitution passed.

College fatigues. That's the uniform you wore all semester. Get rid of those o.d.’s (olive drabs). Break out the white
levis. And throw on a colorful Mexican serape.

BLT Down. That's all you've known summer after summer. A change of palate would do you good. In Bermuda, a
few savory morsels of Hopping John with a sauce of Paw-Paw Montespan usually does the trick. “I hope the students
will realize,” she continued, “that it is a tribute to the trustees that they are willing to extend to the
students such an expanded amount of responsibility.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE EASTERN

We want everyone to fly Note: If symptoms get worse, see your travel agent or call Eastern.

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box
218, Davidson, N. C., 20036.
