VOL. LVI

THE CONQUEST IN TWO ACTS

Midwinters Madness Brings Out Passion In Presbyteria

ED. NOTE: The following scenario, by Jack Taylor, Class of 1961, is reprinted from THE DAVIDSONIAN of eight years ago.
The names have changed and, in parts, the settings have changed. But the dialogue remains much the same.

Time: Modern, late winter, from the Tuesday before Midwinters till late Friday night.
Setting: Presbyteria, a small, contemporary American liberal arts college in the South.

ACT I

(The dining room of the Zeta Deke fraternity house. Empty tables heaped with greasy bowls, used napkins, and dirty aluminum-ware.
Two figures, a tall gaunt man wearing dark glasses and a short, fuzzy-cheeked boy, sit at one of the tables.
The gaunt man's dress and every movement are dedicated to casualness. His manner is that of one who feels obviously
superior. The boy's dress imitates that of his idol, but his mannerisms are those of a worshipper, not of one
who is worshipped. As befits their relationship, the gaunt man has been elected Exalted Grand Procurator of the Zeta Deke
fraternity, Alpha chapter. The round-faced boy is a mere pledge. Pledge slurps up the last spoonful of melted ice cream,
chases it with a gulp of milk, wipes his mouth and drops the worn napkin into an empty glass. The
Grand Procurator leans back languidly and lights a cigarette with a large, monogrammed lighter, and exhales a line of grey
smoke.)

Procurator: Got a date for Midwinters?

Pledge: Naw.

Procurator: What happened? I thought you were going to ask Mary whats-her-name up.

Pledge: I did, but she handed me some jag about having to study, so I told her to forget it.
Guess I'll go home. Need to do some things there anyway.

Procurator: (a look of sudden relief betrays his real concern). It's going to be the greatest smash ever. (pauses, as
if thinking) Maybe I can help you. There’s this sharp little number from home. Goes to Sweetlins. Real party girl.
And personality plus! (indicates scope and magnitude of personality with hourglass motion of hand). She's probably dated up, but I
might be able to work something out for you. Wanna try it?

Pledge: (overcome with ecstasy and religious fervor) It sounds too good to be true. Do you really think you could
get her to come? (this is a silly question.) Would you try? Come on. I'll pay for the call.

(They walk over to the house phone. The Procurator dials operator.)

Procurator: Long Distance? I'm speaking from TW 2-2289. I'm calling Richmond, Virginia, Sweetlins College. I want to speak with Miss
Catherine Elizabeth Scropes. And, uh, I want this call charged to Mr. Bill Gunch. (pause) Hello, Liz- Well, how's it
with the sharpest girl at Sweetlins? Yes, this is me. Look, remember you said something about coming down here for
a weekend? Well, I finally found a man sharp enough for you. He's a brother of mine—Zeta Deke, you know—and
plenty sharp. Drives a white Healey. I know you've probably made plans for the weekend, but cancel them. We're having
Midwinters this weekend, and I guarantee you it’s going to be really terrif. Duke Ellington, plus the parties after. So
why don't you pack your shortie pajamas and come on down for the good times? You will? That's my party
girl. Knew you wouldn't let the Old Man down. Look, your date’s name is Bill Gunch. Write him and let
him know when to expect you.

ONE MORE GIRL

Judy Collins Leads Female Invasion

Girls, Rain Inundate Campus Weekend

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Hundreds of beautiful dates and the anticipation of concerts, dances and parties brought a long-awaited smile to Davidson students as
Midwinters ‘67 arrived with the threat of more rain and colder weather. The annual influx of girls for this weekend
began for some as early as last night and will continue through tomorrow, although Mrs. Harmon Gillespie, assistant supervisor of
dormitories, reported that “there might not be as many female visitors as usual this year." There will, however, be a
sufficient number to transform the college from an intellectual haven into a gay aura of happiness and relaxation.

The Social Council will sponsor both a dance and a concert, and will present both rock-and-roll and folk groups for
those who like a little diversity in their musical entertainment. This lively weekend will begin off campus tonight at the
Lake Norman House of Music, where the Impressions of “Keep On Pushing” fame will alternate performances with the Showmen to
provide four hours of continuous rock-'n'-roll entertainment. The dance will begin at 8 p.m. and last until 12 p.m.

The Impressions are a well-known group whose other hits include “Amen,” “Gypsy Woman,” “It’s All Right,” “I'm So Proud” and
their latest hit, “You Always Hurt Me.” The Showmen have always been a big group, but they have just recently
gotten a big name with their hit “39-21-46.” If any tickets remain for this show, they will be sold at
the door for $2 a person. There is a limit of 1,700 persons who can be admitted to the House
of Music. Maps will be posted in each fraternity house and in the Union.

Saturday night will feature folk singer Judy Collins, who was rated the number two female folk artist of 1966 by
“Billboard's Music on Campus.” She will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium, lasting from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. and
open only to Davidson students and their dates. She is best known on the West Coast, where she presents most
of her concerts. Her present single hit is “Hard Loving Loser,” while her latest album, “In My Life,” is the
current number two selling folk album.

Additional musical entertainment will be provided both Saturday afternoon and late Saturday night. The Union Coffee House will put on
a concert in the Morrison Room beginning at 1:30 p.m. Saturday and lasting “at least one and up to two
hours,” depending upon the crowd. Josh White Jr., who made a big hit at Davidson last spring, will make a
second appearance on Saturday night in the Morrison Room, beginning about 1:30 a.m. White is an informal folk singer who
blends humor with his original folk songs. There will be no seats for the show; everyone will simply have to
find a spot on the floor.

There will also be movies shown in the Morrison Room both Friday and Saturday nights, beginning Friday at 12:30 a.m.
and Saturday at 10:30 p.m. A “Sophisticated Trawl” will follow the movie on Saturday night in the Morrison Room. There
will be a Union-sponsored breakfast on Friday night from 2-4 a.m.

According to Vince Foster, president of the Social Council, “This promises to be a very exciting weekend here at Davidson
because of the variety and the top-notch entertainment we have obtained.

“The admission which students have to pay to hear the Impressions will be the only additional charge made on them
this semester. Usually the Friday night entertainment during Midwinters is provided by the Artist Series, but we decided to take
it this year and thus have to cover the overhead. Also, the Social Council provided one extra concert earlier in
February which had to come out of our budget.”

Chambers Renovation Halts Summer School

There will be no summer school held on campus this summer, because of the renovation of Chambers Building. “The people
who are doing the work have told us they need the whole building,” said Frontis W. Johnston, dean of faculty,
this week. He went on to explain that the college had already committed itself to a summer program for secondary
school teachers when the plans for Chambers were finalized.we are not sponsoring a combo party at the lack of popular
demand. In a poll conducted earlier in the year, students failed to support combo parties. Also, since many of the
fraternities’ parties will be open, we felt the need would be sufficiently met in this way. “The Lake Norman House
of Music has a very large stage,” added Westray Battle, a member of the Social Council, “which should greatly enhance
the effectiveness of the show Friday night.” All this weekend's fraternity parties will be open, with the exception of three,
where space does not permit. Two of the three are tonight: that of the Kappa Sigs, SAE’s, KA's and Betas,
and that of the ATO’s, Phi Delts and Pikas. The third party is the Sunday afternoon party sponsored by the
school either Friday or Saturday night,” he continued.

Has Successful Debut

The Union Coffee House (UCH!) opened with folk music by Tommy Dews and heavy attendance Wednesday night. Herb Jackson, creator
and master of ceremonies of UCH!, expressed pleasure over the response given to his brain-child on opening night. Despite distracting
noise from the area of the snack bar, the over 120 students who wandered in for Dews’ first show seemed
to enjoy the show, according to one observer. Every Wednesday night from 10-12 p.m. in the Union cafeteria UCH! will
feature a guest performer. Performers scheduled for the following weeks are Mike Ratcliffe with the new Salem Trio, Bob Dugger,
and Dave McCorkle. Jackson said, “We are also planning a ‘speaker's spot’ during a break in the entertainment where a
person can state an opinion and then there can be debate on the issue.” Jackson also mentioned the purchasing of
an espresso machine. Jackson called this innovation an “instant coffee house” because its schedule can be changed as he sees
fit. “We hope that UCH! will be continued and receive a budget of its own,” Jackson stated. UCH! charges no
admission to the weekly shows which give anyone who wants to perform an opportunity to display his talents before a
non-captive audience. Jackson said, “I proposed the coffee house because there is nothing going on in Davidson during the middle
of the week.” Working with Jackson are Bill Norfleet, production manager, and a general crew consisting of John Liipfert on
lights, Paul Pitts on sound, William Norman, Jim White, and Bill Farr.

MIDWINTERS SCHEDULE

FRIDAY
Dance — Lake Norman House of Music. 8-12 P.M.
Movie — “High Wind in Jamaica” — Morrison Room. 12:30 A.M.
Breakfast — Union Dining Room. 2-4 A.M.

SATURDAY
Concert — Tomcat Ramblers — Morrison Room. 1:30 P.M.
Concert — Chambers Auditorium. Judy Collins. 8-10 P.M.
Movie — “Seven Days in May” — Morrison Room. 10:30 P.M.
“Sophisticated Trawl” — Morrison Room.

Concert — Josh White Jr. — Morrison Room.

“The program will occupy all the classrooms in the other buildings,” Johnston explained. Consequently, no rooms for summer school will
be available. Complications for eliminating summer school arise because of college regulations that make it mandatory for students in certain
types of academic difficulty to attend summer school on the Davidson campus. The details involved in solving these complications have
not been worked out, but, he said, “we'll make it as simple as possible.” There has been speculation for several
years that summer school would be abolished because of declining enrollment and subsequent financial losses. “There is a possibility of
completely doing away with summer school,” Johnston said, “but the decision to have none this summer has nothing to do
with this. It will have to be decided at a later time.” He pointed out that certain advantages, particularly air
conditioning, might make summer school more, rather than less, attractive in future summers.

ONE-MAN COUNTRY BAND

WEATHER REPORT
Cloudy and continued cold tonight, with occasional rain or drizzle, gradually ending Saturday. Saturday night, partially cloudy and cold. 50
percent chance of rainfall tonight, 10 percent tomorrow. High Saturday, 41; low Saturday, 27; high Sunday, 48.

He'll write you about what to bring and so on. I've got your address (Operator breaks in. “Sir, your three
minutes are up. Signal when through.”) Goodbye Liz (turns to Pledge, his face radiant with the holiness of a good
Samaritan) Well fellow, you got a date: believe me, you GOT a date.

ACT II
(Bill had met Catherine at the airport late Friday afternoon, alone. When he first saw her he was impressed with
her figure, of which she was obviously proud; she was impressed with his Brooks Brothers sport jacket, of which he
was obviously proud.)

Scene at rise of curtain: The gymnasium, filled with music, dancing couples, blank smiles, and smoke. Bill and Catherine (See
PASSION, Page Six)

Cost For Project Set At $500,000

A $500,000 renovation of the inside of Chambers Building will begin in June, and will be completed by the opening
of the fall term in September. The project was announced Tuesday at the faculty's February meeting. Half the cost of
the project will be involved in air conditioning the building. This system will be installed in a manner which could
handle future changes in room sizes. The system would employ heat control by floors and wings of floors. The hallways
will be modernized to include acoustical ceilings and some way to limit hall noise from walking, possibly by carpeting the
halls. Better lighting will be installed, and provisions will be made for using first floor hallways for art displays and
providing adequate bulletin board and display cases. Plans call for the installation of a telephone in each faculty office and
a central switchboard, probably located in an area adjacent to the faculty distribution boxes in the Alumni Office. Classrooms will
be completely reworked, including new furniture, improved ceilings, floors, and blackboards, plus necessary electrical outlets, movie screens and venetian blinds
for the utilization of audio-visual aids. Platforms will be removed in all but the largest classrooms. The language lab will
receive acoustical ceiling and other noise limiting changes. New furniture will also be placed in faculty offices.

Students Request Local Club

A number of students have started a petition aimed at establishing an eating club on campus, to be known as
the Campus Club. According to the petition, it is to “provide a place to eat, a social outlet, a place
for other activities, and whose membership will be open to all students of Davidson College.” The organizing committee consists of
Franklin Anderson, Robin Gottfried, Dan Vinson and Don Hoyt. To this will be added five others selected by those signing
the petition. This new committee will draft a constitution for the Campus Club, subject to the approval of the petitioners.
It will also elect the organization's officers. Although the organizers are all freshmen, approximately half of the signers were upperclassmen.
Several faculty members have expressed interest in the project. A spokesman for the group said the organization is being formed
because “for the past several years there has been a feeling on the campus that there exists the need for
social opportunities provided by an open-membership eating club-social organization.”

Outstanding Bids May Now Be Valid

The Interfraternity Council voted Wednesday night to allow outstanding fraternity bids to remain valid so long as the fraternity wishes.
The old rule stated that freshmen not accepting bids on the day specified would have to wait until the first
week in April. The change leaves the length of time outstanding dates will be valid up to the individual fraternity.
In other business, Feb. 28 was set as the date for election of officers for 1967-68.
