IMAC Flickerball moved into another week with two games, both involving the Pi Kapps, being challenged on account of the officiating. Charges of poor officiating were lodged against the Sigma Nu’s during the SAE vs. Pi Kapp game and against other referees in the Pi Kapp vs. Phi Gam game. The E’s overwhelmed the Pi Kapps, 33-12, while the Gams edged them 20-19. Most of the Pi Kapps’ points were scored in the final minutes of play. Meanwhile, the ATO’s roared over the Betas and Phi Gams but fell to the Kappa Sigs. Tau Vance Hughes pulled the game against the Gams out of the fire by scoring in the final 25 seconds of play. Adding insult to injury, the Taus intercepted a Fiji pass to thwart the Gams’ final scoring attempt. The Taus then swamped the Betas 46-0 in a romp in which only six Betas participated. Everyone got into the act for the Taus as they proved to be a formidable threat for the IMAC flickerball crown this season.

The KA’s pulled a pair out in overtime this week, one over the Sigma Chi’s and the other over the Betas. The Sigma Chi’s battled the winners to a 25-25 tie at the end of the regular game period, but the KA's moved the ball farther in overtime for the win. The Betas fought the KA's to a 19-19 draw, but the KA's moved the ball 22 yards in overtime to the Betas’ five-yard line to cap the win. Pinky Hatcher shined for the KA’s on defense in the Sigma Chi game, intercepting three Machi aerials. Rob Johnson snared two Machi passes during overtime to put the game on ice.

The Kappa Sigs rolled over the Sigma Nu’s, 12-6, this week. The Nu's, usually a flickerball power, have suffered from graduations and early season injuries. The Sigs rely on a junior-laden team, highlighted by Hal Shaw, Johnny Slaughter, and Ernie Doe. Meanwhile, the Betas, another traditional powerhouse, fell again, this time to the E’s. The final score was 20-13, as Ed Embree provided subtle know-how for the E win. While traditional powers tumbled, a traditional loser, the Sig Eps, roared on to their second win of the season. The Sig Eps, fresh from a win over the Nu's, romped over the Pikas, 32-6. Standouts for the SPE's included Bob McKellar and Dan Gresham, while Robert Pyeatt added moral support.

The Phi Gams added another win to their season total when they polished off the KA’s, 18-13, in a hard-fought contest. Meanwhile, the Pi Kapps annihilated the Independents, 42-12. Jimmy Robertson sparked the Pi Kapp offense with 27 points to his credit and several timely catches. Larry Jones, Yates Fletcher, and Ben Martin also shined on offense, while Tom Graves piloted the defense for the victors. Rebounding from their loss to the KA's, the Sigma Chi's blitzed the Pikas, 41-6. Bruce Weihe starred for the Machis on offense, while sophomore Jim Long anchored the stingy Machi defense. Tom Kastner and Bob Pickens starred for the Pikas.

The Pikas met with some more bad luck this week, as they dropped another game, this time to the Phi Gams. The Fijis rolled over for 26 points, while the losers were able to score only six points. Bog Apgar ignited the Gam attack with two touchdowns to his credit. The Pikas failed to score until the last 10 seconds of the game. The Fijis also proved their prowess against the KA's, as the Gam machine rolled to an 18-13 win. Doug Rhymes and Dave King starred for the winners.

Davidson’s Poole Ranks High In National Honor

Davidson Quarterback Jimmy Poole, who was named Co-Player of the Year in the Southern Conference last year, is again figuring prominently in the regional and national statistics charts. In a report released Tuesday by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, Poole was ranked 12th in the nation in major college total offense. The Davidson senior has garnered 568 yards for the national recognition. Other Southern Conference players to rate national honors include East Carolina fullback Butch Colson, who placed fifth in rushing among major college teams with 446 yards. Quarterback Buster O'Brien of Richmond is 10th in the nation in passing, with 43 out of 88 passes completed for a total of 517 yards. Poole ranked fourth in passing, with 58 completions in 103 attempts for 618 yards. Terry Stone of New Mexico paced the offense leaders with a total of 916 yards to his credit. Rushing leader is O. J. Simpson of Southern California. He has gained 602 yards this season. Stone also leads in passing, having completed 77 of 166 aerials for a total of 1,032 yards. Poole also leads the Southern Conference in passing. Clyde Hewell of Furman University leads the conference in total offense. Hewell is fifth in passing in small college statistics, having completed 48 of 78 passes for a total of 574 yards.

Fogleman Names Eleven To Varsity Tennis Team

Eleven players have been named to Davidson's Southern Conference champion tennis team, Coach Harry Fogleman announced this week. They are George Bruner of Helsinki, Finland; James Cantrell of Tampa, Fla.; Harlan Day of Lake Worth, Fla.; Woody Faulk of New Orleans, La.; Sam Hatcher of Columbus, Ga.; Dan Hearon of Daytona Beach, Fla.; Steve Hemphill of Hickory, N. C.; Dave Jennings of Greenville, S. C.; Robert Johnson of Portsmouth, Ohio; Randy Jones of Greensboro, N. C.; and Bruce Weidner of Oxford, Ohio. Cantrell, Day, and Hemphill are freshmen. Rob Johnson was named manager. The squad will elect a captain later this fall, Fogleman said. The selections were based on performance during fall practice and a recent intrasquad tournament. The 1968 varsity schedule consists of about 25 matches, Fogleman said, including a spring tour of Florida and the Southern Conference tournament at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Va. Davidson has retained the conference title four consecutive years.Second in the conference in total offense. Top receivers in the Southern Conference are Jim Cavanaugh of William and Mary and Walker Gillette of Richmond. Cavanaugh has caught 32 passes this year and Gillette has hauled down 25. Colson of East Carolina paced the conference backs in rushing. With an impressive set of statistics under his belt, Poole is given a good chance by many observers of repeating his honors received last year. "I said it before the game and I'll say it again," Richmond Coach Frank Jones said, "Jimmy Poole is the conference's best quarterback. He's amazing the way he can hit that quick, short pass no matter how many men are around the receiver." Poole is in good position to remain king on the conference passing hill, since Furman's Hewell, who was his closest competitor, was injured last week. Hewell received a shoulder injury in a game with Wofford. (Staff Photos by Weems)

Meanwhile, the high-flying Taus got shot down later in the week. The ATO’s fell to the Kappa Sigs, 18-14, in a game that was marked with a host of interceptions. In their only scheduled action this week, the Phi Delts picked up a forfeit victory over the Sig Eps.

The Davidsonian
October 13, 1967
Page Five

‘Cat Booters Rolling To Impressive Year
By DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson's Wildcat soccer team has been rolling over everything in sight in compiling its 3-0 record going into today’s game with St. Andrews. Registering wins over Erskine College, Methodist College, and North Carolina Wesleyan College, the ’Cats have outscored opposition by 20 goals to three. Following up on their 6-1 shellacking of Erskine, the booters drubbed Methodist College on the Wildcat field by a 7-1 score. Alfonso Carrillo, a Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, and sophomore Bill Horton kicked three goals apiece to lead the attack. Wing Sam Darby added the other Wildcat score as goalie Harry Hamil made the losers settle for a single goal.

Carrying their two wins to North Carolina Wesleyan, the Wildcats embarrassed their hosts by crushing them 7-1. This time Carrillo booted four goals, while Jim Marrow and Charlie Cameron each added a goal from their wing positions. Randy Carter scored once from his inside spot. The ’Cats got off to a slow start in both these games, allowing the opposition to jump into a 1-0 lead. But after the opening goals, Davidson controlled the games. At North Carolina Wesleyan, the ’Cats dominated the second half while playing in a soaking rain. Even in the muddy conditions, Hamil played his best game at goalie, Coach Harry Fogleman said.

This Wildcat soccer team has the potential to be one of Davidson's finest ever, Fogleman added. It has scored 20 goals in three games as compared with 22 goals for the entire ten-game schedule for last year’s team. Strong personnel has been the key to the team’s success and is the secret of its strength, Fogleman said. Carrillo dazzles opponents every game with his daring dribbling, pin-point passing, and scoring ability, he added. Playing the center forward position, he is effective at passing to either side or making the shot himself. Dave Dilley and Bill Horton provide support at their inside positions. Roger Peterson and Randy Carter are two newcomers who have improved so much that Fogleman said he finds it hard to keep them out of the starting lineup. Peterson has been playing at the wing and is almost certain to nail down a starting spot soon, Fogleman added.

With no fewer than six halfbacks in the lineup, Fogleman can use two three-man platoons without fear of sacrificing strength. "The biggest problem I have had in coaching this team so far," Fogleman quipped, "has been deciding who to start. And that is the problem I have looked forward to for a long time." Other players who Fogleman said have been doing a fine job are freshman fullbacks Dick Allison and Cliff Patterson. Patterson, a center halfback, was cited for his performance on both offense and defense.

Wrestling To Begin Monday

Coach Charles Parker announced this week that wrestling practice will begin at 4 p.m. Monday in Johnston Gymnasium. Parker said the meeting will be open to all students, including freshmen, who are interested in competing. Freshmen are now eligible for wrestling under the terms of the new Southern Conference rule which permits freshmen to compete in all sports except football and basketball. Davidson's grapplers will be trying this year to unseat The Citadel which won the conference last season.

NML ANSWER MAN
ROBERT T. STONE

Is it true all life insurance costs pretty much the same?

Definitely not! There is a wide variation in the net cost of life insurance among companies. I'd like to take this opportunity to familiarize you with the term “net cost” as defined by a leading insurance journal. Flitcraft Courant indicates that net cost should be arrived at by first adding up all dividends received. To them, add the cash value of the policy at a given time. And from that total, subtract the sum of all premiums paid. The difference is the net cost of life insurance. This is the basis the Courant uses for its “Ten-Year Cost Study,” which shows Northwestern Mutual Life as a national leader in low net cost among major life insurance companies.

For your free copy of this authoritative report, just phone or write me. And at your convenience, let’s get together for the full story on the savings you may realize through NML.

ROBERT T. STONE
Davidson
Charlotte
892-1424
372-6695
Representing
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
MILWAUKEE