VOL. LVII F BD

JACKSON HEIGHTS FRONT AND BACK

The News And Editorial Voice OF The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1967

(Stall Photos: by Weems)

It remains “Cardboard Village” to married students.

Married Student Increase Causes Housing Shortage

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

While the number of married students has increased this year, the housing available has decreased, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing. There are currently 31 married students. This represents a noted increase over past years when the number has seldom exceeded 20. Of the 31, only 20 live within the Davidson town limits.

Mrs. Nicholls explained that the reason for the problem of finding residences for most married students is two-fold. The primary reason is that most property owners hesitate to rent their property for nine months out of the year, when it is possible to rent year-round. The other reason, according to Mrs. Nicholls, is the feeling among some property holders that students will abuse the property. She added that this objection pertains to a minority of homeowners who have had bad experiences with student residents.

The college owns some apartments which it rents to students. These apartments are rented for payments of less than $50 to as much as $60 per month. Most of the other apartments and homes rented by students, according to Mrs. Nicholls, can be obtained, unfurnished, for between $65 and $105 per month.

Council Ponders Housing

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council considered a proposal Tuesday to ask college officials about the possibility of the college's investing in better and more attractive housing facilities for married students. Senior Mike May presented the proposal to the council, stating that he “had heard third or fourth-hand that there were some problems involved in finding adequate housing for married students.” May said he recognized that this would be a long-range project but felt it would be a worthwhile and even profitable investment for the college. He suggested new apartments as the obvious answer to the situation. He said he would discuss this proposal with several married students, questioning them about conditions of housing, rent, and difficulty of locating housing.

Bill Watson reported that he had checked with several professors about the proposed symposium on practical issues, featuring Davidson professors, and tentatively decided to plan a symposium on investing and the stock market for some night in the first week in November.

President Tom Earnhardt suggested there was insufficient lighting in certain spots around campus and said he would check with college officials in an effort to remedy the situation. Earnhardt also presented to the council a plan he hopes to adopt in the near future, whereby each meeting would be turned over to a council member who would prepare the agenda and would preside at the meeting. Earnhardt said he would act as an adviser in preparing the agenda.

Clark Back At Davidson, Treated for Fight Injury

Freshman Roger Clark returned today from a Charlotte hospital where he underwent surgery after his nose was broken in a scuffle with a group of unidentified youths. The incident occurred about 9:45 p.m. Monday on Main Street between the college church and the post office. Clark was walking alone. An eyewitness said that Clark apparently was walking away from the group of about 10 youths when they grabbed his beanie. He was then tackled from behind. “When he tried to fight his way loose from the group, one boy hit him in the face. He was thrown to the street and his glasses were thrown off,” the eyewitness said. Clark then reportedly ran onto the campus proper. “We ran to him and took him to the infirmary,” the witness said.

A group of youths came back to the campus Tuesday night. They reportedly roamed around the campus and later drove a car onto the campus. A group of about 20 freshmen and upperclassmen cornered the car in the parking lot adjacent to the Guest House. Campus and town police arrived, and town police took the youths into custody. A spokesman for the Davidson Police Department said Wednesday night that no charges had been filed.

At an assembly Wednesday, Jim Terry, assistant dean of students, told freshmen that stolen beanies were not worth the injuries sustained in a fight.

Space Shortages Cramp Cafeteria

By DAVID COOK
Staff Writer

Inadequate room, higher labor costs, and lack of equipment are three problems now facing the College Union Snack Bar and Cafeteria, according to Manager Klaus Kleeburg. Over 360 people, including 276 freshmen, are now eating at the cafeteria. Kleeburg said, “Business has been real good,” he said, “but I’d like to increase the number.” In an effort to provide more variety at the snack bar, Kleeburg has added a number of items such as the fish sandwich and...the Wildcat Burger. Lack of space, according to Kleeburg, has hindered selection and service. The room adjacent to the snack bar is now being used as a second dining room for the cafeteria. Kleeburg expressed hope that in the future the snack bar would become separate from the cafeteria line. With a place and equipment of its own, he said, it could offer better service and variety. Kleeburg attributed a $60 per year board increase and higher snack bar prices to increased labor costs and food prices. Labor costs, he said, are up at least 15 percent and food costs generally jump about 5 percent a year. Kleeburg cited two alternatives to the higher prices—lower quality food or reduction of staff—but dismissed them both as possibilities.

CATS TO FACE ECU PIRATES (See Page Four)

NUMBER THREE

Presidents Mum Group’s End May Change
By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

The faculty's Student Life Committee could be used like the Campus Council recommended last spring in the Blue Sky Committee’s preliminary report, according to one member of the group. Student Body President Tom Earnhardt, a member of the Student Life Committee, said yesterday that such a change might be possible. The Campus Council was designed to examine and re-evaluate continually all policies and problems affecting student life. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, speaking for the Student Life Committee, refused to confirm the plans. Burts serves as chairman.

“The make-up of the Student Life Committee and the Campus Council are quite similar,” Earnhardt said.

College Laundry Robbed

Thieves broke into the College Laundry twice this week, making off with over $50 in change and small bills and several articles of clothing. The break-ins occurred Tuesday night and Thursday night, according to the Davidson Police Department, and each time the thief or thieves took about the same amount of money and clothing. The robberies are now under investigation by college security officers and Davidson and county police. Both times entry to the laundry was gained through windows on the east side of the building, police said. They said the robbers tore off the windows’ screens and forced them open. Laundry Manager C. V. Stacks said that about eight pairs of pants and four shirts were taken each night. The items had already been cleaned, he said, and the thieves, whom he called “very selective,” took them off the conveyor system.

“Whether you call it the Campus Council or Student Life Committee seems to me merely an exercise in semantics,” Earnhardt said. “The Student Council will use the Student Life Committee a great deal this year,” Earnhardt said. “We expect to use it as a sounding board for ideas and as a good means of presenting student ideas to the faculty.”

The Student Life Committee has the same power as any other faculty committee, according to Earnhardt. It may make recommendations to other faculty committees, to the faculty as a whole, or to the administration directly. “My guess is that we will not deal with issues that would naturally fall to other committees,” Earnhardt said, adding that that is only a personal opinion and that the committee has not formally determined its policy on the question.

TOM EARNHARDT: Change, but no change

Recently the committee has been discussing the question of including students on more faculty committees. Recommendations will be forthcoming in several weeks, he said. Currently serving on the Student Life Committee in addition to Earnhardt and Dean Richard C. Burts, chairman of the committee, are Professors R. D. Kaylor, J. B. Stroud, W. G. Workman, T. A. Williams, A. A. Wolf, and Norman Johnson, as well as students Bill Andrews and Randy Phillips.

GETTING STARTED on National Plan

Greeks Remain Silent

Fraternity presidents and the Interfraternity Council have drawn a veil of silence over their attempts to seek improvement in the social system at Davidson. The presidents of Davidson’s twelve national fraternities met for the third time in two weeks Wednesday night, but neither IFC Chairman Gus Cochran nor any of the presidents contacted by THE DAVIDSONIAN would comment on what took place at the meeting. The purpose of the series of meetings was to seek a compromise proposal between the college’s social affiliation program and an alternative plan submitted by the national fraternities in a resolution to President D. Grier Martin. In the resolution, eight of the twelve fraternities found the college’s proposal to be constitutionally unacceptable, and two of the other four opposed it on other grounds. In its place, the national representatives...

(See GREEKS, Page Six)

The Serendipity Singers kick off the year’s Social Council affairs.

Serendipity Singers Return For First Concert Weekend

Davidson's first concert weekend of the year, featuring the Serendipity Singers, has been scheduled by the Union and Social Council for Saturday night. After the football game with East Carolina University, there will be a lawn supper for students and their dates. The Serendipity Singers, who appeared here several years ago, will give a concert at 8 p.m. in front of Chambers. In case of inclement weather, the singers will perform in Love Auditorium. Students will be admitted to the concert upon showing identification. Immediately after the concert, a movie, “The Stripper,” will be shown in the Morrison Room followed at midnight by folk-singer Bert Mason. As a finale to the weekend festivities, an early breakfast will be served in the Union, featuring movies of W. C. Fields and Charlie Chaplin.