Page Six Campus Comment ¢ October 13, 1967

Question: “Do you believe that social life at Davidson is basically limited to the concert and dance weekends? Why or
why not?”

These students said:

Dave Dunn, junior: “The question is opinionated. It's up to the person as to the type of social life he
wants. It's not U.Va., but you shouldn't be here if that’s what you want. However, five weekends for the freshmen
are not enough. There is nothing else for them to do.”

Robert Corbett, sophomore: “For independents, there's no real organization for them. The Union's mixers have been pretty good, but if
they could come up with a few more combos, about three a month, it would be a lot better. Perhaps
they could come up with something new and different, I would really like this.”

Tom Earnhardt, senior: “Although I have been known to leave campus on a number of ‘off weekends,’ it’s not for
a lack of something to do. I've had a great time at several of the Union ‘off weekend’ parties. With
the Hungry I coming up it should get even better. I just wish there were a better restaurant close by.”

IFC Endorses Presidents’ Plan

The Interfraternity Council approved the proposed extended fraternity rush program by a unanimous vote at its meeting Tuesday night. The
council first voted to rescind approval of the total social affiliation program proposed last year, to which several of the
national fraternities had objected. Approval by the IFC followed approval by all fraternities and by the Davidson faculty.

In other action, the council discussed the possibilities of a freshman chapel and hall discussions to acquaint freshmen with the
mechanics of the rush system and to enable them to have a broader understanding of the rush system in general.
The IFC also approved its new budget of $1,725. The $2 rush fee will be replaced with a $1 pledging
fee.

Hungry I Singers Cancel

Next week's Hungry I, which was to feature the folksinging Pickle Brothers, has been canceled, according to C. Shaw Smith,
director of the College Union. “The three Pickle Brothers have just recently made a pilot film in Hollywood, and have
since then received several very nice offers," Smith said. “They felt that it was in their best interest to cancel
the tour which would have brought them here. Their performance at Davidson has not been re-scheduled at this time.”

Starting October 30, Leanda, a girl folksinger now on tour in Poland for the State Department, will be at the
Hungry I for a week. The Union is also planning to get Bert Mason back for a week's stay.

Police Arrest Two In Laundry Theft

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Managing Editor

Huntersville police have charged two teenagers with storebreaking and larceny in connection with last month's robberies of the College Laundry.
Charged last Saturday for the Sept. 26 and 28 robberies were a 16-year-old Mount Mourne boy and a 13-year-old Huntersville
boy. The elder, also charged with two counts of housebreaking and larceny and one count of larceny, was placed in
Huntersville city jail under $1,000 bond. He faces a preliminary hearing Wednesday in Mecklenburg County Recorder’s Court. The other youth
has been charged with nine counts of storebreaking and larceny and three counts of housebreaking. His case has been turned
over to juvenile authorities. Most of the charges brought against the younger boy were for a recent rash of break-ins
in the Huntersville area, according to Huntersville Police Chief Harold Cook. A church, another laundry, the Huntersville Elementary School, and
one residence were robbed recently, he said.

Someone who forcibly entered the College Laundry twice last month made off with a number of clothing items, a partially
empty crate of soft drinks, and about $55 from the cash register. Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks said Wednesday the
college had paid nearly $300 in claims to students who lost items in the robberies. The laundry is covered by
theft insurance, he said, and will file a claim with its insurance companies as soon as the total losses have
been determined. The 13-year-old youth was picked up by police first. Cook said he arrested him last Saturday after routine
questioning. So far only a few items from the laundry have been recovered, Cook said. The rest of the clothing
could be in possession of the younger youth's 24-year-old brother, who has been charged with receiving stolen goods. Cook said
the brother has not been located. The college is now taking steps to make the laundry plant more secure, according
to Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant. Meetze said he had ordered materials.

The Sunday Night Open House

The following homes will be open this Sunday night at 8:
Brinkley
H. E. White
Lester

Ford Challenge (Continued From Page 1)

For every dollar given by the Ford Foundation, the college was required to raise a specific number of dollars from
other sources. These gifts could be in cash or property—and all gifts and payments on pledges were to be received
by the college within three years of the date at which the grant was announced. As campaign funds were collected,
top priority was given to increasing faculty salaries, and to increasing library and research facilities. In addition, several plant improvements
have been made possible through Ford Campaign funds. The first major improvement was the remodeling in 1966 of Chambers Building
auditorium, which was named in honor of J. Spencer Love, the late textile executive who served as a Davidson trustee
for 12 years. His widow, Mrs. Love of Greensboro, gave money for the project. The auditorium was air-conditioned, refinished, and
equipped with new carpets.to strengthen the windows and had increased the guard service at night.

Pramistas Speak Of Independence

The Latin American countries were compared to small children who need assistance and independence to grow into fully autonomous, secure
nations by Patrio Ortega, one of the speakers of the Project of the Americas chapel Monday. Another speaker, Miss Edith
Novoa of Chile, said that while she was impressed with the work of such groups as PRAM and the Peace
Corps, a general disregard of Latin America seemed to be prevalent in the U.S. John Thacker, a Davidson sophomore, Marcelo
Rosero, Novoa, and Ortega, members of PRAM from South America, related their impressions of conditions and attitudes in both continents.

The South American speakers are members of a larger PRAM group which came to Davidson for the last several days
of a two-month tour they took of the United States. The Project of the Americas (PRAM) is an organization devoted
to the free interchange of persons and ideas between the two American continents. It was founded at Davidson in 1965,
and its national headquarters is still located here. Rosero said that the people of Ecuador and much of the rest
of South America had lost sight of the fact that their people are rich in intellectual and artistic talents but
have lost their initiative due to long years of oppression and poverty. Ortega, the leader of the group, charged that
the United States attempts to impose its way of life on any small nation which shows any indication of possibly
adopting communist ideas.

HANS MORGENTHAU lectures here

Reynolds Lecturer Scheduled

Political scientist Hans J. Morgenthau will open the 1967-68 series of Reynolds Lectures Nov. 13 and 14. The Albert A.
Michelson Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science and Modern History at the University of Chicago will make his first presentation
at 8:15 p.m. on Nov. 13 in Hodson Hall. He will remain on campus to speak during the next day's
chapel assembly and to be the guest of honor at the coffee hour. Morgenthau is noted for his expertise on
United States foreign and military policy. He has degrees from Munich University and the University of Frankfort and also holds
four honorary degrees. He has been a visiting professor at the University of California at Berkeley, Harvard, Northwestern, Wyoming, Columbia,
and Yale.

Last summer Chambers Building itself was renovated. A central air-conditioning and heating system, a central switchboard, refinished classroom furniture and
new office furniture, plus new ceilings, lights, halls, and floors were installed.

PARK’S REXALL DRUGS
Complete Prescription Service
Russell Stover Candies
Davidson 092-2111

We Repair Shoes Expertly!
McKISSICK’S SHOE REPAIR
Davidson

ROLLING OUT THE CARPET

Student Body President Tom Earnhardt’s campaign for a new rug in the Union finally paid off Monday, when workmen moved
in to lay down a new sienna-colored carpet. Fortunately, the workmen had finished sewing the pieces together by the start
of the World Series.

Housing Poll Raises Gripes, Suggestions

“The house shakes at least five times a night.” “No bathtub.” “Dirty.” “Don’t make them out of cardboard.” These were
typical comments made by married students in a Student Council questionnaire on housing. Nineteen out of 30 have replied in
an effort to prompt the college to secure modern housing at low cost. Rent varies from $44-90.50 a month, but
most couples felt that it was reasonable. Yet statements describing the living quarters showed dissatisfaction with the appearance and the
filth of the houses, the plumbing, the gas heating, and poor maintenance. Everyone expressed concern about the situation even though
not all the deficiencies applied to them. The majority felt that the college should greatly subsidize housing either by building
low-rent apartments or by buying more old homes and fixing them up better. Other suggestions were that the college help
in providing furniture or set aside a trailer camp. One couple said: “We feel that the college should subsidize the
building of proper living quarters for married students. We don’t appreciate being treated like a problem that, if ignored, will
go away.” Student Body President Tom Earnhardt said, “Married students generally did an excellent job in filling out the questionnaires.
I think this great care probably indicates a very real concern about the housing situation.”

NORKET'S ESSO AND WRECKER SERVICE
— 24 HOUR SERVICE —
892-1543 Cornelius
OPEN SUNDAYS 12 P.M.-9 P.M.

DAVIDSON GROCERY
DEPOT STREET
Complete Line Of Groceries

FRANK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor: BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editors: DON SEWELL, DANNY WHITE, MIKE SIGMAN
Assistant Business Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Advertising Manager: JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Biff Fine, Dick Anderson, John Pancake, John Bolinger, Mark Wingate, Ben Garrett, Lewis Lavine, Glenn Mauney, Bob
Meadows, Doug Haynes, James Hobby, Paul Schneider, Chuck Greg Scott, Danny Coltrane, James Gillespie, Allen Lewis, and Bill Warren.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036
