Page Six October 6, 1967 The Davidsonian

Class Of ’71 Upholds High Academic Rating

‘Davidson has had no drop in the quality of its applicants,’’ according to J. W. Regen. Regen, assistant director of admissions, said, “For instance, this year’s Freshman Class has nine National Merit Scholarship winners, 50 Finalists, and 55 recipients of letters of Commendation.”

Regen’s comments came in response to questions sparked by a recent article in the Chronicle of Higher Education. The article said that many private colleges are facing a shortage of qualified applicants due to increased enrollment in state universities and junior colleges and an increase in competition between private schools.

Regen based his answer on the profiles of admissions data for the past several years. For instance, for the Class of 1970 there were 1114 completed applications. Completed applications are those on which a final decision has been made. Out of this number, Davidson accepted 451 or 41 percent, including those who were placed on the waiting list. Two hundred sixty-five or 58 percent enrolled at Davidson. This was the first time in several years that the percentage that enrolled fell below 60 percent.

Because of this, the Admissions Committee accepted 451 or 43 percent of the 1044 completed applications for the Class of 1971. Out of this number, 276 or 61 percent enrolled at Davidson, an increase of three percent over the previous year.

He further pointed out that Davidson's competition for applicants is changing. Davidson is now competing with Northern colleges like Williams and Amherst. In the South, the chief competitors are Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Davidson recently received a total of $19,000 in scholarship grants from three sources. The largest grant came from Raymond W. Oeland of Houston, Tex., a Davidson alumnus and member of the Board of Visitors. The fund, worth $10,000, honors Oeland's aunt and uncle, Anne Withers and Isaac Raymond Oeland. It will support an annual award to a rising sophomore planning to major in either English or a science.

Another alumnus and an Aluminum Company of America official, W. H. Davis, presented the college $5,000 from Alcoa. The company will give another $10,000 in 1968-69 as an unrestricted grant.

The third grant came from the Robert C. and Sadie G. Anderson Foundation, honoring Dr. Robert C. Anderson, developer of the Presbyterian conference center in Montreat, North Carolina. The grant provides for $4,000 a year in scholarships to be awarded on the basis of the financial need of the recipients.

ESP, Razzmatazz Make Burgess’ Act

“Extra sensory perception does exist; any prediction that I made will be one that I feel will materialize,” claimed Russ Burgess, parapsychology expert, in chapel Tuesday. He quickly hushed the snickers that greeted this announcement by reciting the serial numbers from dollar bills submitted by members of the audience.

Burgess, who has appeared on national television, performed a psychic demonstration of “mind-reading” and precognition. He has a standing offer: $10,000 to anyone proving he gets help from anyone else during a demonstration.

Stating in chapel Tuesday that he was “a psychic who is a skeptic,” Burgess explained that the demonstration was “not 100 percent genuine—if it was I'd lose my audience.” Characterizing his technique as “not scientific, not orthodox, because this is show business,” Burgess said he did use power of suggestion, psychological trickery, and mechanical tricks, but no sleight of hand.

Burgess had given blank pieces of paper to students at random, asking that they write down a question about the future. Blindfolded and holding the questions, he then asked those students to think of their initials. Burgess matched the initials to the questions and then predicted the answers. He also made a precognition of a symbol on a card picked by a student, along with the serial number of a dollar bill and a social security number.

Specializing in precognition, Burgess finished by predicting correctly a newspaper headline, a sum of numbers, and a playing card.

In the coffee hour, Burgess discussed ESP and other psychics. He believes that “ESP is highly limited,” and he disagrees with some clinical psychologists who feel that ESP will be harnessed to prevent war and crime. However, Burgess feels that ESP is innate and that everyone has it to some degree. But a person can improve his ESP only with practice and only if he has the potential.

Burgess’ predictions include a Republican (Nixon) victory in 1968, a bloodbath in Latin America involving US troops, and Russia and China being Christian by 2000 A.D.

Trustees, Officers Elected

The newly elected trustees and officers of the Davidson College Alumni Association have been announced by William Armstrong, director of alumni activities. Chosen in the month-long balloting by mail as alumni trustees were William A. White, Jr., Charlotte; Jack P. Etheridge, Atlanta, Ga.; and Henry T. Bahnson, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Also elected as officers of the association were: B. Gales McClintock, Greenwood, S.C., president; C. Morris Newell, Charlotte, vice president; and Edward C. Sutton, Burlington, vice president. Armstrong said that the officers will be installed during Homecoming weekend.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors: BILL ANDREWS, KERN PARKER, CHARLES McEWEN, GEOFF SEAMANS
News Editor: BOB DUNHAM
Photograph Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Managing Editors: BOB TRAVERS, ED EMBREE, ROBBIE HOOKER
Assistant Managing Editors: FRANK ANDERSON, ROBERT PYEATT
Sports Editor: BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editors: DON SEWELL, DANNY WHITE, BILL OLSON
Photographers: DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: BERKY BELSER, NAT HEYWARD, MIKE SIGMAN
Assistant Business Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Advertising Manager: JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER
Contributors this week: Biff Fine, John Pancake, Mark Wingate, Ben Garrett, John Bolinger, Athley Kline, Dick Anderson, George Allen, Chuck Green, Glen Mauney, Paul Schneider, Jim Cooley, Paul Rowland, Danny Coltrane, David Cook, Allen Lewis, Rob Krehbiel, James Lee, Richard Cowart, Gary Fagg, Jim Roland, and Don Hoyt.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Sunday Night Open House

Members of the faculty and administration wishing to have open house should leave their names in THE DAVIDSONIAN box in the Alumni Office on the Tuesday preceding the Sunday they wish to have open house. The following homes will be open this Sunday night at 8:30.

Locke White Jr.

Campus Comment — Fee Hike Merits Better Concerts

The social fee was increased this year from $30 to $40 so that the Social Council would have more funds for booking entertainment. In response to the question “Do you feel the $10 increase in the social fee was justified in light of the entertainment scheduled for this year?”

Tom Kirtley, senior: “We aren't getting our money's worth. I think that when IFC was doing it for $20 we were getting better entertainment.”

Bill Olson, junior: “The caliber of the entertainment does not justify the increase. I don’t think the entertainment is as contemporary or as good as it should be.”as well known as in the past. The Platters are not of my generation. However, knowing that the Union runs at a loss every year, the increase was needed." 

¢ ss) than for the $30 last year, and $40 is atrocious. The only benefit seems to be for the Freshmen at the Union.” 

SCALES KIRTLEY

Joe Scales, junior: “It’s too early to judge, but second semester sounds a lot better than first. I enjoyed the Serendipity Singers."

6 Organizations Receive Money

Almost $26,000 in student activity fees were distributed among six campus organizations by the Student Body Finance Committee Friday.

Aa ~~ i CO ..Compromise Proposal (Continued From Page 1)

what the proposal terms ‘the privilege of participating in the social activities of the fraternity for a period of two months.” During this period the rushee would pay the same social fees which each member of the fraternity pays, but the fraternities will not be obligated to allow him to participate in activities reserved for national fraternity members, such as meetings, ritual and voting. This arrangement may continue longer than two months if both the fraternity and the rushee desire it. If this is not mutually agreeable then the rushee is to be issued another invitation and may continue in this manner until receiving a bid. Receipt of a bid automatically terminates a rushee's participating in the formal rush program whether or not he accepts it. A further addition to the new proposal is a judicial board which would allow a fraternity to request the removal of any rushee whose behavior is objectionable to the fraternity.

The immediate cause of the new proposal was a resolution of the national fraternities received several weeks ago in which they voiced their objections to the previous social affiliation plan and suggested a program of extended rush. The fraternity presidents began a series of meetings two weeks ago to reach some type of compromise solution between the social affiliation program outlined last spring and the national fraternities’ resolution submitted this fall. The new proposal is dated Sept. 29 and is signed by all 12 fraternity presidents.

We Repair Shoes Expertly! McKISSICK'S SHOE REPAIR Main St. Davidson

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone 332-2414

HOMECOMING! DRESS UP THIS WEEKEND FOR YOUR DATE AND WEEKEND AFFAIRS. LET US DRY CLEAN AND PRESS YOUR SUITS, SPORT CLOTHES AND DO UP YOUR SHIRTS NEATLY. Jackson Cleaners LAST BUILDING ON DEPOT ST.

A storekeeper had 17 TOT Staplers. All but 3 were sold. How many did he have left? No bigger than a pack of the punch of a big deal!

Quips and Cranks received the largest allocation for 1967-68, $9,283. THE DAVIDSONIAN got $6,690 and the Artist Series was allocated $4,750. The Miscellany received $2,477, the Student Council $1,650, and the Wildcat Handbook $1,100. The student activity fee constitutes 25 per cent of the $100 general fee. The balance of the general fee goes to support the College Union, intramural athletics and other activities. All the organizations received within $200 of the amount they requested, except the Student Council, which requested $2,550 to expand the Educational Planning Program. Previous Student Council budgets have been about $950. The Miscellany had $608 left over from last year.

Swingline

This is the Swingline Tot Stapler (including 1000 staples) Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.49 but packs refills available here. Unconditionally guaranteed, made in U.S.A. Get it at any stationery, variety, or book store! Swingline INC. Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

United Appealers To Storm Dorms In Annual Drive

The Davidson United Appeal will kick off its annual student fund drive Monday night. Campus chairman Jim Terry expressed hope for a repeat of last year’s drive in which students and faculty gave $7,500, surpassing the established goal by 200 per cent. Terry, assistant dean of students, has asked senior Bob Howard, who headed last year’s student collection, to assume the same position this year. In addition, he has appointed five professors to serve as team captains. These five are Drs. Samuel Maloney, Anthony Abbott, Tom Daggy, L. R. King and W. G. Workman. Unlike other drives on campus, the United Appeal allows students to contribute in either of two methods. Students may pay the student collector when he solicits or may make a pledge and request billing at various times during the school year. Terry pointed out that the United Appeal, as a single agency, serves 43 different organizations. He said that this enabled students to contribute to one drive, but help a large number of causes.

Thursday Chapel Features Movies

In a program that departed from the usual chapel, the student body Thursday saw two abstract films. The first, an animated color short entitled “Alf, Bill and Fred,” dealt in a comical way with the evils of money. The second, and longer, film was “The Hangman,” a color fantasy inspired by Maurice Ogden's poem of the same name.

Dance Weekend Plans Set

Student sign-up for dates’ rooms for Homecoming and the procedures for moving out of Belk and Richardson dormitories will be the same as last year, with one slight change. The change will involve the use of bed linens for the weekend. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of student housing, asked that students living in Belk and Richardson remove college-owned linens from their beds. Mrs. Nicholls suggested that these students either take their linens with them when they move to other dorms or put them in their closets. Janitors will make up beds in Belk and Richardson with clean linens for the weekend. These linens will be removed on Sunday. Sign-up for rooms will follow the same procedures used in the past and Belk Richardson residents may sign for spaces on Monday. On Tuesday residents of other dormitories may reserve spaces. On Wednesday, space may be reserved in the dorms for guests.

GET YOUR CLOTHES CLEANED FOR HOMECOMING Main Street Davidson, N. C.

Help and Waitresses Wanted

EARN SOME EXTRA MONEY! Coach Driesell needs students and especially student wives to fill these positions at his new restaurant. See John Helm by the first of the week at the restaurant or call 892-7681 in the evening.

True-To-Tradition 3 Piece WORSTED SHARKSKIN SUITS

An air of confidence distinguishes the man whose choice is based on the rich texture of worsted sharkskin. It’s a suit that's perfect for whatever you decide to do. Tailored meticulously of imported and domestic fabrics in our understated authentic natural shoulder model. In a choice of colors... plains and plaids

To Make Your Homecoming Weekend Complete, Wear a Suit or Sport Coat from RUSH WILSON Ltd.

Rush Wilson, Ltd. Davidson, N. C. Greenville, S. C.

BASS CLEANERS