Coffee

What started as a one-week experiment in college entertainment at Davidson in the spring of 1966 with the premiere of the Hungry I has now expanded to an extensive circuit of coffee houses on more than 60 college and university campuses. C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union at Davidson, conceived the idea of a campus supper club or coffee house following conversations with several people in the business about the high cost of entertainment for the campus and the lack of meaningful contact with these people. He soon incorporated his knowledge of and faith in the entertainment field into his coffee house experiment.

“There are too many great show business people, not just great performers but really great people, and they need a break which the colleges and universities can give them,” he said. “Many of the greatest performers today get as much as 90 percent of their income from the college entertainment field,” Smith continued. “This is a lot of influence to wield and we need to make more creative use of it.”

Fred Smoot, a young comedian later to be declared Davidson's ‘resident comedian,’ was the first person to really encourage the idea and proved its worth in the first Hungry I. Despite discouragements from some of the big talent agents that the idea of having good new talent on the college campus for a week's stay at a minimum cost would not work, Smith persisted. At a block booking conference, he talked with Fred Weintraub of New York's Bitter End coffee house and manager of Fredana Management Co., who said that the idea would not only work but that he could provide “scads” of young talent for the then fledgling circuit.

Smith saw two duties that the campus should perform for the circuit: it would “find new talent, fine talent that we can live with and enjoy” and “give them a chance to prove themselves, to develop, and then promote them. We (the colleges and universities) have the money and should use their influence,” Smith said.

The idea appealed to schools and entertainers alike and Smith rounded up seven other area schools including Duke, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Wake Forest, and South Carolina to start the first circuit last spring with about six acts. This small circuit was a test and a successful one, from the entertainer’s viewpoint. Jake Holmes, a circuit veteran, won a role in David Merrick's new Broadway play. He also provided the campus with good talent at a minimal cost.

“When the students proved the idea could work, we really started to grow,” said Smith.

Keep Foot of Furniture

Wayne Stark, past president of the Association of College Unions International, has pictured C. Shaw Smith as one of the most respected men in the field of Union work. Stark described him as versatile and capable of being very serious and humorous at the same time. Milton Spann of the Montreat-Anderson College Union said that he is “widely respected in the area of programming, in helping other campuses plan their programs and utilize their facilities.” Both Stark and Spann characterized Smith as a “master booker of professional entertainment on the campus.” Spann said that he has the respect of his colleagues to the extent that he is able to sell an unknown act, knowing that it will succeed.

Bryon Sennett, a professional talent agent and manager

‘King Colin’s’ War Record Includes ‘Foxhole Follies’

“King Colin” boasts a war record very unusual for most men. In his three years in the USO camp shows, C. Shaw Smith traveled over 125,000 miles and entertained over two million men. After the Army turned him down for combat duty, Smith joined the USO camp shows as a magician and master of ceremonies, initially giving shows here in the U.S. at training bases. Going to England in 1944 as a member of “The Foxhole Follies,” Smith played throughout England and Scotland. When the rest of his troupe went home, Smith stayed and helped organize Arrabella’s Show Shop which ultimately included two trained dogs in the act.

While working with

“KING COLIN” . . . USO royalty

big names as Frank Sinatra and Bob Hope. “The big name stars would come over and stay for maybe one to six months but we stayed over there with the boys and played whenever we could,” he said. “We would give one or two performances daily plus many more hospital shows.” Smith pointed out the time when the USO flew his troupe 300 miles into the Spanish provinces so they could give a show for 12 servicemen or when they gave a show to one man who was isolated behind a glass door in a hospital in India. He is also proud of the time when he entertained the Sultan's family in Casablanca. “We decided in Paris at the beginning of our tour that it would be interesting to have a dog in our show since this would be almost as much of a morale booster as the girly.” Smith said his camp show experience taught him what he knows about entertainment.

“One of the reasons

House Circuit Now

After a selected letter writing program to other schools supplemented by write-ups of the concept in trade journals such as Variety and Billboard, Smith and the members of last year’s circuit held a screening of talent in New York last spring. “Almost 60 colleges and universities were represented at that meeting last year by an individual and 20 or 30 more were represented as a group,” he said. He explained that the coffee house circuit is now divided into seven circuits from Florida-Alabama to Ohio and upper New York with 60 colleges participating. “We have had inquiries from 60 more schools who want to join the circuit this coming spring or next fall,” Smith said. “We just can't handle any more right now, but with the expansion of Weintraub's office with Bryon Sennett in charge of the coffee houses we hope to have more than 100 schools (Staff Photo By Embree) from the Bitter End in New York,” said that Smith is “an innovator in the whole field of live entertainment on campus.” He said that “the major thing he (Smith) is, is a creative thinker with the coffee house circuit as only one manifestation of this.” Smith is described by Sennett as “one of the most respected college buyers of talent in the country.” One of the reasons for this, said Sennett, is that Smith has made other colleges aware of their importance in the field of entertainment and has led them to participate in it on a professional level. Sennettsaid, “He is a joy to work with from our end.”

The Davidsonian
November 3, 1967
Page Three

Spreading Across Country

“...on the circuit next year,” he added. Smith's vision does not stop here for he sees the eventual establishment on campuses of full-fledged supper clubs able to buy talent in the $500-$1500 range on a weekly schedule. “This will have to come later, though, once we get the discovery circuit, the coffee houses, well organized and functioning smoothly,” he said.

The coffee house circuit is only one manifestation of Smith's interest in the field of campus entertainment. He has long felt that campuses were paying too much for the type of talent they were getting. Through “talk, talk and more talk,” Smith said, “we have been able to build up a dialogue with the agents.”

“We wanted to create a climate in which we could deal honestly and respectfully with the honest agents. We (educational institutions) are in the entertainment business whether we like it or not, but we should be in it like a professional educational institution should be.”

(Staff Photo By Weems)
SMITH DIRECTS HIS CREATION
Davidson graduate Durwood Settles and talent agent Bryon Sennett watch.

Smith said one of the reasons that Davidson is able to get good performers is that Davidson has the reputation among both the bookers as well as the performers of receiving the performers into the community as people as well as performers.

Doctor Of The Spirit

“Do we need to do this? Have we done this? What do we need to do now? Have we accomplished this?” Incessant questions, always bringing someone else in to help and answer. This is the way Shaw Smith conducts business. Rare is the person who comes into his office without being introduced to whoever else is there, be it trustee, college recruiter, friend, or student. Rare also is the person who can talk with Smith without being interrupted by a long-distance telephone call, by a student or faculty member, or an administrator who dropped in to have a few words with him.

His official designation is Director of the College Union, Coordinator of Student Activities, and Director of Placement, but he serves in the unofficial capacities of a father-image, slave driver, charismatic leader, talent agent, and doctor of the spirit. He is an unusual person who can run several things at the same time and pull them all off with the same ease and exactness with which he pulls the rabbit out of his magic hat and can still find time to inspire and encourage union leaders on other campuses as well as espouse his union philosophy to students here with an ardor that approaches the religious.

He never hesitates (and he would be the first to admit it) to communicate this philosophy to anyone with the time and interest. Surprisingly simple, this philosophy begins, ends, and is implemented with and by students. He sees his job (destiny may be a better word) as providing for the relaxation, entertainment, and “serendipity” education during leisure hours of the student. Smith is a supporter of the belief that however hard one has to take his job seriously, he should not take himself seriously. He laughs at himself, he needles other people and then laughs along with them.

The means by which he accomplishes his job is by communicating. He accomplishes it by communicating with students. Smith first involved himself in student activities as a student at Davidson. Besides working his way through school by doing magic acts for various groups, he was involved with the YMCA, the drama department, and THE DAVIDSONIAN. After teaching for a year at Oak Ridge Military Institute, Smith returned to Davidson to serve for four years as the YMCA secretary. The war came, and following several deferments from the service, he joined the USO Camp shows doing what he has always loved—entertaining other people.

Following the war, Smith refused some rather lucrative offers from Hollywood and turned his attention back to Davidson, where he entertained as a magician. In 1952, he accepted the newly-created post of Director of the College Union and Coordinator of Student Activities. Smith is also a leader in the field of student placement. This year he is the president of the 600-member Southern College Placement Association, whose purpose is to bring together recruiters and placement directors to determine the best ways of recruiting and placement and to police unethical recruiters.

Union Director Has Nursed The Project Since Its Birth

C. Shaw Smith has literally been at Davidson as long as the College Union has been here and has nursed it to its present status on campus. When the present Union building was completed in 1952 using the shell of the old gym, Smith was brought to the campus by President John R. Cunningham to direct the activities of the Union. Since that time, the college has seen tremendous growth in the programs offered by the Union. Smith said much of the credit for the expansion of the budget and the program must go to President D. Grier Martin, who has supported the Union since its inception, and to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, who is responsible for the overall activities of the student body.

The Union first entered the social life of the campus seven years ago with the first Christmas party. Then with the creation of the Social Council three years ago and subsequent cooperation between the Union and council, the social program has expanded to encompass the whole student body. The development of the social life on campus follows the general direction which Smith thinks the Union should follow. The Union, he says, should provide leisure time activities for the entire student body. “But because of the growing demands of the academic classroom, leisure time is more scarce,” he said, “so these leisure time activities which the Union can offer should be educational to expose the student to things which will allow him to develop the whole man.” A part of this development consists of the campus-wide social life in part achieved through the blending of the efforts of the Union Board and the Social Council.