Page Four December 14, 1967

BRINKLEY PREDICTS Fraternities Safe, For Time Being

By GEORGE ALLEN Staff Writer

Students concerned over the proposed abolishment of the fraternity system should quiet their fears—at least for from five to 20 years, according to Dr. A. B. Brinkley. The Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life report, released last week, implies the gradual end of fraternities in its proposal for eating clubs open to all students. Brinkley, a subcommittee member, said that the proposal concerning fraternities in no way implies the immediate abolishment of the system at Davidson.

“The subcommittee proposals,” Brinkley said, “are designed for long-range use. There is nothing in the report to suggest immediate implementation.” Brinkley saw several drawbacks in the present fraternity system but said that he was “pleased with the increasing maturity of students concerning fraternities.”

Dr. James G. Martin, another member of the subcommittee and a National Trustee of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, said “I think the fraternity system plays a vital role at Davidson College. It provides a social outlet for its members and serves an organizational function in the programs and speakers which it sponsors on campus. It also has a positive influence on scholarship.” he said.

Although Martin said that it was unfortunate that some students are not invited to join fraternities, but that since the discriminatory bidding process operates on mutual agreement between members and pledges, fraternity members are assured of a close and profitable relationship.

Brinkley emphasized that the proposal concerning fraternities in the subcommittee report is only to serve as an alternative measure for the fraternity system if, for some reason, the system fails in the future both to supplement and complement social life at Davidson. “As long as the IFC (Interfraternity Council) and the fraternity members continue to make serious efforts to solve their own problems, they will have little faculty interference,” Brinkley said. He added that the fraternity system could not possibly be abolished at this time unless another means is found to meet the social needs of the student body.

Appeal Denied By Committee

By JIM COOLEY Staff Writer

The restriction to campus of a junior found guilty of possession of alcoholic beverages on campus by the Faculty Committee on Student Discipline was upheld by the Executive Committee of the Faculty in an appeal yesterday afternoon.

According to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, the Executive Committee, after deliberating, decided that the student's appeal “didn't have enough force.” It was the first appeal of this nature made to the Executive Committee, consisting of Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, who acted as chairman in President D. Grier Martin's absence, Burts, and professors E. F. Patterson, Bruce Jackson, Malcolm Lester, George Labban, Charles Lloyd and W. H. Frey.

The central point in the student’s appeal was that he was not guilty to the degree that the sentence indicated, Burts said. First, the student contended that he was a victim of circumstance because he had no foreknowledge of the events which took place in his room before his arrival and because he thought all the alcoholic beverage had been removed from his room when he discovered it and before the security officer arrived. He further contended that he was punished more severely than other students found guilty of similar and more serious violations.

In a statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN, the student said, “The Executive Committee was extremely effective and well-organized, but I feel there was pressure on them to uphold the decision of the Faculty Committee.” He noted further that the Executive Committee seemed much more objective in its decision than the Faculty Committee on Student Discipline. “Although I don’t feel the decisions of the committees were entirely fair,” he said, “I respect the rules involved and intend to comply with them.”

Phone Chairmen Lose Jobs

Citing “a number of reasons” for its action, the college administration officials decided this week to discontinue the use of telephone chairmen beginning next fall. In making the announcement to the telephone chairmen, Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing, said, “After evaluation of the effectiveness of our present system and in light of the changes in service, it has been decided that the use of telephone chairmen will be discontinued.” Mrs. Nicholls cited the additional phones in several of the dorms as one of the major reasons. She said that these phones “have so enlarged the responsibilities of the telephone chairmen that it is impossible to expect the same duties of them.” As a result of the decision, the telephone chairmen have been given the option of resigning at the end of the semester, or continuing until the end of the school year.

The system, initiated about 15 years ago, was set up to give financial assistance to students, by asking them to answer phones on their dormitory halls. In return for their services, the students were paid a portion of their room rent.

Fate Of Manor Still Undecided

By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer

The fate of the Lingle Manor building is in the hands of the business office, President Tom Earnhardt told the Student Council Monday. Earnhardt said Robert A. Currie, treasurer and business manager, told him that Lingle Manor still had unpaid debts and nothing could be done with the building until the debts were settled. Currie said the college

Campus Comment — Student Seating Much Improved

Question: Were you satisfied with the new student seating arrangements for basketball games in the Charlotte Coliseum?

Bill Carr, Senior: “In comparison to last year, it's much better. However, when the arrangement is infinitely better this year than it was last year. The availability of seats both in the mezzanine and the parquet sections is very good.”

Harry Parker, Junior: “I don’t remember whether we used the student poll results in our meeting or not.” Kelly said. He said that the disadvantages of the Concord Road site were that it was across the road from the campus proper and would be more difficult to reach.

Library (Continued From Page One)

Manor site was chosen, R. S. Kelly of Erwin, a member of the Trustee Building and Grounds Committee, said, “I didn't want the new library stuck out there in front of the dormitories.” Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, pointed out during the trustee deliberations the advantages of the Concord Road site. Advantages he listed were easy availability between classes; completion of the quadrangle formed by the present library, the south end of Chambers, and the Martin Science building; almost unlimited room for expansion and the concealment of the mass of the building. Last year a student poll conducted by the Student Council indicated that about 90 per cent of the students voting favored the Concord Road site, while less than 9 per cent preferred the Lingle Manor location. The other one per cent favored the Guest House site.

Bob Peel, Senior: “The new arrangement is infinitely better this year than it was last year. The availability of seats both in the mezzanine and the parquet sections is very good.”

Bautdsoanian

Copy Editor: BILL ANDREWS

Associate Editors: HEYWARD CARTER, KERN PARKER, GEOFF SEAMANS, BILL SEIGLER, BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors: ROBBIE HOOKER, BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors: FRANKLIN ANDERSON, ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor: DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editors: ROCKY CROSSWHITE, DANNY WHITE

News Editor: BOB DUNHAM

Photograph Editor: CHARLES McEWEN

Photographers: KEATON FONVIELLE, DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists: BURKEY BELSER, NAT HEYWARD, CULLUM ROGERS, MIKE SIGMAN

Assistant Business Manager: MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager: JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Dick Anderson, John Pancake, Biff Fine, Athley Kline, Chuck Green, Paul Schneider, Mark Wingate, John Williams, Bill Warren, Jim Gillespie, Edward Hay, Richard Cowart, Jim Cooley, James Roland, Jim Crouse, Doug Haynes and Sterling Abernathy.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (If billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036You're sitting on the lower level, your ability to see the entire game is limited. Overall, it is still Dave Staton, Junior: “It’s a great arrangement. For one thing, the students deserve the good seats since it's their team, and the team deserves the close support. It will probably increase the number of students who attend the games there.” “The end zone seats were not as bad as they looked from the diagram of the Coliseum. However, the side seats were excellent. A better arrangement would be to eliminate the end zone seats.” 

One of the prime criticisms of the proposed landfill has been that it would attract rats to the area and compound Davidson's rat problem. “That fear is unfounded,” said Martin. “It’s an emotional appeal which is unrelated to the intended operation of the sanitary landfill. Rats and dogs and other animals do feed at open and exposed dumps — of which there are 167 scattered throughout the county — and it's our responsibility, in view of the health hazard and unsightly appearance, to establish and maintain sanitary landfills," he said. “Ironically, the undesirable character of open dumps has created a misapprehension with regard to the very program designed to eliminate those dumps,” said Martin. Davidson Mayor Frank L. Jackson said, “I don't think it would be proper for me to comment on the dump before it comes up before the town council. I wouldn’t want to comment on that.”

STAMP IT! IT'S THE RAGE REGULAR MODEL. The INDESTRUCTIBLE POCKET RUBBER STAMP. 4" x 2". Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No handling charges.

Adé would eventually turn the Manor over to some organization to remodel for use until the building of the new library begins. He said he would be glad to hear reports from the Freshman Council and other committees before making any final decision. Joe Murphy asked the council to warn students not to tamper with the new vending machines. He said the company which installed them told him the machines would be removed if there was any damage to them. Murphy said cigarette machines had been removed in the past because they were tampered with. He said the company representative sounded “very uncompromising.” Earnhardt reminded the Council that Article IX, Section 5 of the Student Body Regulations covers fires in the dormitories and would be more stringently enforced in the future.

BLOOD DONORS DECLINE Davidson students, faculty, and townspeople donated 242 pints of blood Monday and Tuesday in the annual fall blood drive. Maj. Joe B. Crawley of the ROTC Department, which conducted the drive, said that total donations were slightly under last year’s.

Freshman Council Lists Record Accomplishments - Variety characterizes the achievements of this year's Freshman Council. As Steve Engstrom, Freshman Council president, put it, “We've tried to produce tangible achievements and at the same time build a sense of class spirit.” “Of course we've had the regulars — the things that each council before us has done — but we've tried to do more,” Engstrom added. He listed as the “regulars” the preparations that the council made for Freshman Parents Day, Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, and Homecoming displays and skits for the pep rally. The first major Freshman Council project was a party for the Homecoming weekend. Besides promoting class spirit and providing entertainment for freshmen, the party earned the class enough money to initiate other projects, according to Rich Cowart, a council member. The council has arranged for the installation of telephones on each freshman hall. It has given its full support to the Student Council's project of providing more vending machines in the dormitories. Council resolutions have supported the proposal for a one-day extension for Christmas vacation, the elevation of sailing to varsity-sport status, and the improvement of student identification cards. The last proposal was drawn up after freshmen complained that college identification cards had not been accepted as a form of identification at at least one business establishment. (The proposal was shouted down at last week's Student Council meeting. The Student Council sponsored a similar proposal last spring.) In its philanthropic work, the Freshman Council sponsored a collection to buy candy for children who were in Charlotte hospitals during Halloween.

WESTERN AUTO Western Union Telegrams PHONE: 892-6581

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA

Holidays Have A Cool Yule SAVE All Your Christmas Money For BOOKS (What else?) THE STUDENT STORE