Page Four April 21, 1967 The Davidsonian

UNIQUE CENTER FOR KIDS
5-Year-Olds Enjoy Education
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

Scarcely a half mile from Davidson's campus, a unique experiment in learning is underway. Many of the members of the
newly-formed faculty at the Child Development Center have familiar names—Ostwalt, Kelton, Woodfin, Sailstad. The curriculum is almost wholly interdisciplinary. Tuition
is free, and there exists a student-faculty ratio of about eight to one. Best of all, this is a school
where learning should be a pleasure: there are no grades.

The site of this project is what used to be Ada Jenkins School, but it is now known as a
Child Development Center.

FOCAL POINT
The center opened its doors in February through funds provided by Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act
(ESEA), and it now has become the focal point in the lives of 166 five-year-olds who are presently enrolled.

Mrs. J. H. Ostwalt, principal of the center, states that its main purpose is "to help a five-year-old have as
many experiences as he can take." Getting the children ready for school is not the purpose, she emphasized, but rather
development of the child "where he is right now." The need for the school—and the forthcoming federal aid—is the result
of the fact that so many families in the area have an annual income of less than $2000.

MISCONCEPTION
Many parents kept their children away at first because they were given the false impression that the kindergarten was for
children of low-income families only. Mrs. Ostwalt was quick to point out that "once the need was established, anyone could
come."

A bulletin board outside the principal's office emphasizes the five main areas of development which the center promotes—mental, social, physical,
emotional, and spiritual. This type of development is achieved when aspects of language arts, social studies, physical education, manipulative arts,
music, number concepts, and natural sciences are interrelated into a single program.

SUMMER
The school will run through Aug. 24 due to the fact that federal funds were not available until February. More
children continue to join the program each week, and registration is already underway for the next term, which will begin
in September.

The staff of nine teachers, nine assistant teachers, three aides, a full-time social worker, a full-time nurse, and a full-time
nutritionist is, like the school itself, fully integrated. At present, 45 percent of the students are white, and 55 percent
are Negro. In each class, if the teacher is white, then the assistant teacher is Negro and vice-versa.

BUS RIDE
A typical day at the school begins with a ride on the bus. A period of free time follows, and
then the students are served breakfast. After breakfast, they go to their rooms to plan the morning’s work period with
the teacher. The school day is ended with lunch and an afternoon rest period. But many days are not at
all typical and may include a visit to the fire station, the dentist's office, or to the Davidson College library.

DISCRETION
Activity during the morning work period is left, for the most part, to the students’ own discretion. But the guiding
influence of the teachers usually channels these activities into a variety of areas.

If a student is interested in only one area to the neglect of all others, the teacher will assign him
to some of the other activities in order to give him the variety of experiences which it is the center's
purpose to provide.

Many of the activities in which the children are participating now are geared to give them a fuller appreciation of
the beauty of spring. Almost all the classes have planted grass and other plants in window boxes for observation.

MRS. OSTWALT
Tulips and umbrellas are being fashioned out of construction paper. The story-telling periods concentrate on the animals and plants commonly
seen during this season. Other activities are introduced to provide training in language arts and number concepts. The "name-game" is
particularly useful in relating these two aspects. Each student is given a card on which his name is written. He
not only learns to recognize and read his name, but he counts the number of letters which it contains. The
calendar is also used in counting exercises, and students learn to tell time with demonstration clocks. Although none of the
students is forced to read, some pick it up on their own by seeing sentences on the bulletin board or
by relating pictures to words in the story-telling period.

The indoor gymnasium is well-equipped to provide the type of muscle-building exercises which five-year-olds need. The most popular area in
the gym seems to be the tricycle arena.

VISITS CLASS
Principal Supervises 166-Student School

Artist Series Author Thursday
A. R. Ammons, one of America’s young poets, will be on campus Wednesday afternoon and all day Thursday as a
part of the Artist Series and the North Carolina Poetry Circuit. A native North Carolinian, Ammons is presently on leave
from the English Department of Cornell University. He is the author of five books of verse and a 1966 recipient
of a Guggenheim Fellowship for creative writing in poetry.

A North Carolina native, Ammons was born in Whiteville, received a BS degree from Wake Forest College, and studied at
the University of California at Berkeley. For two years he was an elementary school principal in North Carolina, and from
1952 to 1961 he held an executive position in a biological glassware firm.

His first book, Ommateum, appeared in 1955. Since assuming a teaching post at Cornell, four others have followed in rapid
succession. Expressions of Sea Level was published by the Cornell University Press in 1964.

Open House
The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding
open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Bryan
Reid
D.G. Martin
Roberts

Secor’s Slides Depict Soviet Scenes
“Too Dismal A View Seen Here”
“‘The Russian official life I did not like, but the people I liked very much,” said Philip B. Secor, professor
of political science, at his slide show on Russia Tuesday night at the Union.

Several slides he had taken on his 1965 summer trip to Russia were used to illustrate the falseness of Russian
government actions, while many showed the genuineness of the Russian people. “Two biases run through my comments on the slides,”
Secor continued. “First, I went to Russia because I feel a great need for understanding between us and our friends
the Russians. Second, I went as a student.”

He showed slides of the Moscow landmarks—the buildings, the people he met, and the people on the street. “Many of
the landmarks had great meaning to me after having studied about Russia for so long,” Secor said.

Secor’s tour made his ideas of what Russia is like much more vivid, he said, but did not change his
views greatly. He said that Americans tend to get too grim a picture of Russia and illustrated his point with
color slides of Red Square alongside black-and-white ones such as are found in newsprint. He found Red Square lively and
bustling.

A faulty projector bulb brought the program to a premature end. After the show, Secor said that the trip to
Russia had the effect of making his view of that country a little more conservative. “Russia really is a police
state,” he said, “I saw that the people are much less free than in this country.”1964. The year afterward Corsons
Inlet and Tape for the Turn of the Year, a long poem of book were published. Ammons’ latest collection appeared
last year under the title Northfield Poems. In addition to these books, Ammons has published in Hudson Review, New York
Times, Poetry, Partisan Review, and The Nation.

Abernethy To Study Religions, History

Dr. George L. Abernethy, professor of philosophy, has been awarded a fellowship for next year in the Cooperative Humanities Program
of Duke University and the University of North Carolina. Raymond Martin, a doctoral candidate in philosophy at the University of
Rochester, will take Abernethy's place next year. As a part of the program supported by the Ford Foundation, Abernethy will
be in residence next year at Duke where he will do further research in Asian religions and Muslim history. Abernethy
and Dr. Thomas A. Langford, Chairman of the Department of Religion at Duke University, have recently completed a revision of
their Philosophy of Religion. The Macmillan Co. expects to publish this second edition in January, 1968.

Future traffic signs were set up to test the students’ skill in maneuvering their vehicles, but most preferred the open
“road” and getting the most speed out of their machines. Outdoor equipment is just now arriving for the school, and,
at present, the most popular outdoor activity appears to be climbing over and hiding in empty wooden crates in which
other material has arrived. The school contains 12 rooms which are used by the students.

CARE

The most noticeable aspect of each room is the care with which all equipment has been handled. The rooms stay
neat because the students are required to clean up their classrooms after each work period. There are no chairs in
the room except for those in which the teacher and her assistant are seated. The children sit on the carpet
in a semicircle at their teacher's feet in a manner reminiscent of the ancient Greek students. During rest periods they
lie on their own mats on the floor. When the students are not listening to the teacher in this manner,
they are busily engaged in one of the corners of the very large, well-lighted, and well-ventilated rooms.

EQUIPMENT

A large variety of equipment from a miniature kitchen to goldfish bowls is available to keep them from becoming bored
with any set routine. Miniature carpenter equipment will soon be available to further strengthen muscles and stimulate creativity. The students’
work is attractively displayed on bulletin boards around the room. The students of one class drew sketches of the members
of their families, others tried shaping their houses out of cardboard boxes, and still others were introduced to the art
of finger painting.

PARTY

A typical party would include a cabbage grown in a large flower pot to show the students the appearance of
the original plant. The students would then taste it in various dishes such as sauerkraut and cole slaw. The health
room under the direction of a full-time nurse was at first a very unpopular spot for students. But Mrs. Ostwalt
notes that the students now go there for the most minute ailments. The health of the entire center is kept
under close surveillance. The health room and cafeteria work together in making sure that each student is learning good health
and nutritional habits. Care is taken to assure that all students get enough to eat.

SHOULDER

If the teacher knows the student is not properly fed at home, a hand on the child's shoulder in the
cafeteria line will mean a larger serving. It is much too early to be able to assess the significance which
the Child Development Center will have in the Davidson community.

Phi Beta Kappa Sets Initiation And Dinner

The annual dinner for members of Phi Beta Kappa will be held on Monday, April 24, in the Morrison Room
of the College Union at 6:30. Preceding the dinner, at 5:45, new members-in-course will be initiated at Philanthropic Hall. Presiding
over the initiation ceremony will be Dr. James M. Fredericksen, current president of the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.
Dr. Charles W. Keenan, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Tennessee, will be the featured speaker at the dinner.
He will speak on “Cambridge University and the Philosophy of Science.” Afterwards, officers for the coming year will be elected.

SHERRILLS JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

ONE DAY ONLY
Tuesday, May 2, 1967
LONDON GRAFICA ARTS
Presents an exhibition and sale of originals, lithographs, etchings, woodcuts
Daumier Cassatt Maillol
Carzou Corinth Picasso
Chagall Dufy Renoir
Rouault Toulouse-Lautrec Van Dongen
and many others moderately priced
10 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Cunningham Fine Arts Center, Davidson College

No Desmond, No Sign Plague Brubeck Group
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

It took a homemade highway sign and a lot of luck to reunite the Dave Brubeck Quartet for last Saturday's
concert. For a while it was the Dave Brubeck Quartet Minus One as alto sax player Paul Desmond tried to
locate Davidson. Construction workers had removed the sign marking the Davidson turn-off on Highway 21, and that is when the
trouble started. Brubeck, traveling with drummer Joe Morello and bassist Eugene Wright, missed the turn earlier in the evening, but
they reversed themselves and found it the next time around. But they feared that Desmond, who was traveling by himself,
would not be so lucky. They were right, for Desmond did not show up at concert time. Meanwhile, out on
the highway, Tony DeBruyn, freshman member of the Union Board, was positioning a handmade sign that read, “Paul Desmond, Davidson
Next Right.” “We didn't have enough large ‘D's’,” DeBruyn later said, “so we left one off the end of ‘Desmond’
and one out of ‘Davidson’.” The sign paid off. Desmond arrived 10 minutes before intermission. During intermission, he told his
story: “It was late when I passed the sign,” Desmond said, “so I saw it out of the corner of
my eye. I saw the words ‘Desmon’ and ‘Davidson,’ but I thought that there was a town named Desmon. I
wasn't expecting to see a sign addressed to me. So I kept on going. The next sign of civilization I
came to was the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks restaurant. I went inside to ask directions, but all the
waitresses were busy,” Desmond continued. “When I asked where Davidson was, they would say something like, ‘Oh, I don’t know.
Ask the girl over there.’ Fortunately, there was a Davidson student there who told me that I had missed the
turn. So back I went. When I first saw it, I couldn't believe it. But there it was. ‘Paul Desmond,
Davidson Next Right.’ I followed the sign and here I am.” Desmond concluded.

The Brubeck Quartet was not the only group affected by the missing sign. Earlier in the week, Jose Molina and
his troupe of Spanish dancers, here for the Artist Series, traveled between the Mooresville and Davidson turn-offs three times before
finding the right turn.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. (Monday—Friday)
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

STRIPED OXFORD
For when it sizzles—a half sleeve Gant shirt in classic batiste oxford stripings. Meticulously tailored in the typical Gant tradition...
with softly flared button-down collar.
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.
Greenville, S. C.
