UP ‘N’ COMING: CHRISTMAS VACATION VOL. LVII

The Voluntary ROTC Program Recommended By Faculty

ELEPHANT WALK
Sabu, a 2,000-pound baby elephant from San Antonio, Tex., displays one of the tricks he was performing today and tonight
outside the College Union. Sabu and his trainer, James Coghtin, were on hand for the Union’s Christmas party. (Staff Photo
by Olson.)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1967

Comparisons No Means To Justify Vote — Outlaw
By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

Comparing Davidson to other liberal arts colleges is not a valid justification for Tuesday's faculty action on ROTC, Col. Frederick
B. Outlaw said Wednesday. Outlaw, professor of military science, declined further comment on the faculty recommendation that ROTC be made
voluntary.

“There is no sense in trying to compare Davidson, for example, to Pomona on the issue,” he said. “As the
dean of the faculty at a large midwestern university said, ‘each school has its own modus operandi.’”

He said he would not make his position public until after the trustees vote Dec. 20 to confirm or reject
the faculty action. “I don't want to put myself in an untenable position where I might be accused of trying
to influence the trustees’ action,” he said.

Outlaw answered questions in a curt manner; he appeared to be tired and in a disgruntled mood. If the trustees
accept the faculty decision, the college must notify the Department of the Army that it wishes to negotiate a new
contract; the ROTC program will continue to function for as long as a year, according to the present contract, unless
a new contract is negotiated, said Outlaw.

The Army makes certain requirements of a college when it establishes a ROTC program, he said. One of those requirements
is that “appropriate academic” credit be offered for the first and second years of the program. “These are professional courses,”
he said, “and certain aspects must be maintained to avoid defeating the purpose. Academic credit is a necessity.

“I think these courses make a contribution both to the student and the college,” he said. “Of course what Davidson
does is Davidson's business.”

In answer to a question about the proposals to develop a new program for training potential officers, Outlaw said, “I
don't know what they're talking about.”

FREDERICK B. OUTLAW: credit necessary

REED CRITICIZES RICHARDSON PROGRAM (See Page Two)

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Trustees’ Vote
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Managing Editor

The faculty voted Tuesday to accept the recommendation of the Blue Sky Committee and ask that ROTC, a part of
the Davidson curriculum since 1919, be made voluntary. The vote on the controversial issue was 38-27. Final decision on the
ROTC proposal, as well as the other Blue Sky recommendations already approved by the fa-

APO Plays Santa Claus For 22 Families’ Christmas
By RICHARD COWART
Staff Writer

Food, clothing and toys purchased by Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity may make Christmas a little brighter for 22 needy
families. Funds collected in the APO drive this week will be used to aid those families, all in the Davidson
area, according to Bill Seigler, APO president. The names of the families involved were suggested by a social worker in
Davidson.

THE NOT-SO-SANITARY LAND FILL (Photo by Tom Earnhardt)
Picture to be used as anti-dump evidence.

Opposition Continues To Grow In Spat Over Proposed ‘Dump’
Opposition of Davidson residents to the proposed Concord Road landfill and garbage disposal area has been increasing this week. Bill
Bondurant, assistant to the president, is leading the fight against the proposed garbage dump location. He said, “We have had
a meeting of some of the community leaders and discussed our plans for the Town Council hearing Friday night.”

“It now appears that we'll have around 500 names on the petition,” said Bondurant, who lives in the area and
has been circulating a petition against the Concord Road site for the garbage dump. “I am delighted that we've had
such an impressive group to sign the petition,” said Bondurant. “I feel that if we have a sizable portion of
the signers attending the hearing Friday night, it will considerably improve our chances to succeed.”

“It remains incredible to me that one of the finest residential areas in North Mecklenburg County would be selected for
a dump,” said Bondurant.

New Library Site Stirs Up Criticism
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Opposition to the proposed Lingle Manor site for the new E. H. Little Library has continued to grow following selection
of that site two months ago by the Board of Trustees.

“I don't like that site mainly because it’s too near the dorms and the fraternity court,” said Danny Layman, the
only student representative on the faculty Library Committee.

The trustees’ decision Oct. 13 had seemingly ended several months’ haggling over the site. Also considered by the board were
sites across Concord Road, in front of Little Dormitory, between the College Union and Duke dormitory and the Guest House
site. The Concord Road site had been openly favored by both the student body and the library staff.

“The trustees selected the Manor site because of its proximity to centers of student activity, its accessibility by road and
because future expansion might go in that direction,” said Bill Bondurant, assistant to the President.

Layman said, however, “the site across Concord Road would have placed the library far enough away from the living centers
of the campus—the fraternities, the dormitories—so that an atmosphere more conducive to study could have been obtained.

“It would have been much nicer esthetically, too, if it had been placed across Concord Road,” he added.

President Emeritus John R. Cunningham, at a time when the Guest House site was under consideration, said in a letter
to a member of the administration, “I would dislike to see that corner of the campus crowded with a large
building.”

In explaining why the (See LIBRARY, Page Four)

Library Receives $200,000
Davidson's drive to meet a $1.5 million challenge grant for a new library received a substantial boost this week with
a challenge gift of $200 thousand. The gift, made by the Richardson Foundation of Greensboro, was given on the condition
that Davidson meet the $1.5 million challenge made by philanthropist E. H. Little for the building of a new library.

Little’s original gift of $500 thousand was made soon after the Board of Trustees accepted the proposal to construct a
new library and learning center for the college. The Richardson Foundation’s gift leaves $1.3 million to be raised by the
college in order to secure both grants.

Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development, said that the gift will “start the ball rolling” in the
college's fund drive. The library, to be named the E. H. Little Library, will be built no later than June,
1970, or as soon as the college can meet its challenge.

The gift to Davidson was one of several made to North Carolina colleges and universities this month by the foundation,
which also supports the Richardson Fellows and Richardson Scholar program for foreign students at Davidson.

DAVIDSONIAN Notes Holiday
THE DAVIDSONIAN is being distributed a day early this week in order to reach students leaving campus early for the
Christmas holiday. With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN will take a three-week breather. Publication will resume on Jan. 12 following the
holiday.One of his prime criticisms of the Concord Road site is that land values in the area would go down.
However, Dr. James G. Martin, associate professor of chemistry and chairman of the County Commissioners, said that the land values
in the proposed landfill area were very low anyway. “There would be a lot of truth to their fears about
the land values if the dump were to be left unattended or if the dump were to be left open
to the air,” Martin said. Martin contends that the landfill would be covered over each day with about two feet
of soil. “There isn't any development in the area now and there aren't any plans for one. This is about
as isolated an area as you will find in the county,” Martin said. “On the question of this project's preventing
growth of the town in that direction,” Martin continued, “I don't know if anyone should really offer an opinion on
that question. I don't expect any growth in that direction for the next six or eight years anyway, which is
the projected time span of the project,” he added. “I've looked at five other sites in northern Mecklenburg County, and
so far I have been unable to buy any property from their owners,” said Martin. “You don't solve the problem
of where to put the landfill by just wishing it off on somebody else, and we just don't have any
large ex- (See DUMP, Page Four)

APO gathered information about each of the families: the number of children, their ages, clothing sizes, likes, dislikes, and their
needs. With this information, Seigler said, he hopes to be able to purchase gifts that will be needed and wanted.
The money for the project was raised from the Davidson student body. Seigler said that he asked each of the
12 fraternities to sponsor one family. The Freshman Class conducted a room-to-room drive and came up with enough money to
sponsor five families, and the Independents’ donations provided for another five. Seigler said that he hopes that $15, along with
a lot of economizing, will cover the cost of the things he wants to purchase for the families. “I'm going
to use every trick I know to make this money last,” he said. He said that he hopes he can
get discounts on the items he is purchasing. “I'm depending heavily on the goodwill of a lot of businesses,” he
said.

Student Critics Hit Constitution
By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

Criticism of the draft of the Student Body Constitution released last week has centered around its court system and its
Bill of Rights, according to members of the committee that prepared it. Reactions from students to the new Constitution, however,
are “generally good,” said Franklin Anderson, secretary of the Constitution Revision Committee. Anderson said that the Senate and the Executive
Committee have been well received, and that the only criticism of them that he knows of lies in “the setting
of a definite number of people as senators representing the residence halls.” He added that he has not heard any
criticism of Article V, which is entitled “Referendum, Adoption, Revision.” Harrison Higgins, one of two freshmen on the Constitution Revision
Committee, said that although most freshmen backed the new Constitution, some have criticized the Court of Appeals and have wondered
“how much it would be used and whether its power is justified since its members are appointed.” He added, however,
that most freshmen felt that “the idea of a student Court of Appeals was good.” According to Higgins, many freshmen
“criticized the use of legalistic language” in the new Constitution and felt that “some of the passages are not necessary
nor do they mean anything.” The second sentence of Article III, Part 3, Section B concerning the general theory governing
the Honor System has been criticized as being unnecessary. This sentence reads, “Since Davidson strives to be a Christian College,
and thus recognizes a need for understanding and compassion as well as for justice and honor, the Honor Court shall
administer the honor system by instilling in students an awareness of the basic principles of honor and by enforcing its
decisions as it sees fit in the light of each individual case.”

DUKE GAME
Slated Dec. 20

Faculty, rests with the Board of Trustees, which will meet here Dec. 20. In its final report to the faculty
last month, the Blue Sky Committee had concluded that military science “is not compatible with the ideal of the liberal
arts and ought not to be required of anyone.” Its recommendations asked that:
—Academic credit be limited to the advanced program.
—The basic program be offered on a voluntary basis and without academic credit.
—The college explore the possibility of completing the basic program in one term and offering it as late as the
junior year.
—Davidson “take the lead in exploring the possibilities of establishing a more efficient method of training officer potential outside the
curriculum than we now have in the ROTC program.”

All ROTC recommendations were accepted by the faculty, contingent upon the assent of the Department of Defense. “We'll have to
wait and see if the Defense Department will approve of what we want to do before we can set it
up,” said Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty. If the proposal is approved by both the trustees and
the Defense Department, the ROTC change would go into effect next fall. Faculty deliberation on the matter Tuesday lasted over
an hour and a half, Johnston said. The recommendation, which was the only item on the faculty agenda, was presented
by Dean of Students Richard C. Burts. ROTC was established at Davidson in 1919, when a “Student Army Training Corps”
started before World War I was formalized. The only other compulsory ROTC program in North Carolina is at A &
T University in Greensboro.

Party To Offer Ticket Drawing

A limited number of tickets to the Duke-Davidson basketball game Jan. 3 will be up for grabs tonight at a
special student drawing at 10:30 in the College Union. The ticket drawing is just one of the attractions being offered
by the Union in its annual Christmas party, which began tonight at 8. Up to 75 tickets will be available
at the drawing, according to Student Council President Tom Earnhardt. Students must register for the drawing at the Union desk
by 10 p.m., he said. Also on tap at the party will be a musical saw, a harmonica-playing elephant, and
a pie-throw. The party is featuring three musical groups, according to Charlie Cameron, party chairman. The Fabulous Five, Loonis McGlohon
and his jazz combo, and the Gross National Product Jug Band will play. At the 10 p.m. intermission, Sabu, a
baby elephant, will entertain. The elephant plays the harmonica and bells. A special attraction of the party is a pie
throw. Joe Beard and other “notable campus leaders” will be the targets, according to Cameron. Musical saw player Hugh McMannaway,
Davidson folksinger Henry Whitfield, and a carol sing will be other features of the party.

Honorary Taps 7 For Membership

Seven sophomores have been tapped for membership in Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholastic honor society. The society tapped Warren Bellows,
Tad Lowdermilk, Tom Hart, Allen Lewis, Randy Carter, Marvin Ellison, and Joe Jones. Membership in Phi Eta Sigma is based
on a 2.6 average for either the first semester or for the entire freshman year.
