Page Four January 13, 1967

The Davidsonian

— Attorney Hopes For GOP Wins

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The pressing financial needs of the North Carolina Republican Party and the increasing hope for its success in the 1968
election were the themes of the speaker at the Young Republicans Club meeting Wednesday night. The Hon. Sherman T. Rock,
Carteret County District Attorney, is a Goldwater Republican. He has high hopes for the success of the Republicans in the
near future on both the state and national level. Rock pointed out that those who oppose the strong central government,
the activists, are now beginning to get through to the people. “According to a recent poll,”

(Staff Photo by Olson)

FOCUS ON CONSERVATISM
Dr. Eugene F. Miller Examines Types

FOUR TYPES

By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

The question “What is Conservatism?” was brought more clearly into focus by Tuesday's chapel speaker, Dr. Eugene F. Miller. Sponsored
by the Conservative Club, Miller, assistant professor of political science at Furman University and a member of the Davidson College
faculty in 1962-63, posed the question as a prerequisite to anyone who wishes to participate in the liberal-conservative debate.

“To be seriously interested in conservatism,” Miller contended, “is to undertake a search among man’s alternatives for political understanding."

Using equality as the guiding principle of liberalism, Miller divided liberal policies into political, economic, social, and foreign policy spheres.
The conservative movement emerged in its rejection of equality as a desirable political mankind is a more noble passion than
love of one’s country.” This passion leads, he continued, to the attempt to make all nations democracies. Ultimately, this causes
the creation of a world state and the redistribution of wealth. This view of foreign policy is also rejected by
the conservative elements.

“What do conservatives stand for positively?” Miller then asked. The answer he gave was that conservative factions have been unable
to agree on specific principles. He then turned to a consideration of the four principal conservative camps.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

The states’ rights camp headed by newspaper columnist James Jackson Kilpatrick was cited by him as resting upon a strict
interpretation of the national constitution. The traditionalists exemplified by editor Russell Kirk take Edmund Burke's idea of accepting the accumulated
wisdom of the past as the basis of their stance. The term “economic conservatives” was applied by Miller to the
group which considers itself in the classical liberal tradition of Adam Smith. The final strain of conservatism was classified by
Miller as “philosophical conservatism.”

Monday—Friday

Miller Defines Conservatism

This group, he said, has begun with a diagnosis of the crisis in Western Civilization as due to the failure
of liberalism. This development in the West, he continued, has led to a kind of “relative determinism” in which all
goals appear to be of equal worth.

Look into our future and yours

At Ford Motor Company, the electric car, computerized teaching machines, and artificial limbs controlled by the brain are much more
than hazy visions. And the man who can help us with these and other better ideas has a real future
here. If your major is arts, science, or business. If thinking ahead is one of your skills. See your placement
office now and make a date to meet the representative from Ford Motor Company.

SKI BRYCE
SKI IN VIRGINIA

Virginia’s only 2500’ Double Chair Lift
2 Rope Tows for Beginners and Instruction
Student Slope Fee $5.00. Learn to ski with our team of patient European instructors. Rentals — Head Skis — Bryce
Buggy Rides. Stay in BRYCE’S bunkhouse for only $6.50 including breakfast. Complete restaurant at Base Lodge. Apres Ski Life -
Plenty to do. Dancing nightly. Ice Skating. Relax around the large pentagon fireplace at Moonshine Lodge. TOTAL FUN BRYCE'S MTN.
RESORT,

said Rock, “there are now seven times more people who oppose a strong central government than 10 years ago.”

According to Rock, the most important job of the state party is to generate enthusiasm on all levels and worry
afterwards about the ideology that develops. Rock, who described himself as a “Yankee Republican named Sherman,” complained about the lackadaisical
attitude of the Republicans in this state toward the financial needs of the state organization. He cited as an example
of this attitude the fact that the state organization did not give John Shallcross “a single dime” in his campaign
for U. S. Senator. His answers to this situation include the establishment of a “plush” party office in Raleigh, the
hiring of a public relations man and an executive secretary to make speeches and to run the organization, and the
raising of $250,000 from party members to support the state candidates in the 1968 election.

Davidsonian

Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Exam Change Petition Lacks Student Signers

A petition to have the ROTC examination changed from Jan. 26 to Jan. 20 will probably fall short of its
goal due to a lack of student interest. Sophomore Jeff Pflugner, the author of the petition, said that as of
Wednesday only eight of the 15 petitions being circulated among the student body had been received. “With less than half
of the students involved in the program signing, I don't see how Col. (Frederick B.) Outlaw could even consider making
the change,” said Pflugner. “This petition was started mainly to see if student opinion carried any weight,” he continued. “In
the past it has not and now it looks like there is not even any opinion.”

Staff

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
LOU HILL
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Ken Cool, Jim Cooley, Kenneth Hamilton, John Williams, Carter Fussell, Allen Lewis, Franklin Anderson, Robert Pyeatt, Sam Bell, George Robinson,
Bob Stubbs, Danny White, John Huggins, Rick Saunders, Marvin Bethune, Danny Coltrane, Lewis Lavine, and George Cretekos.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —

La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT

The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas
Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just acrossfrom the Mooresville Golf Course

The ELK’S Now Operated Under New Management

principle and its skepticism concerning economic and social equality. He described liberal foreign policy as the view that “love of
Pflugner” added that he worked independent of any student organization or the Military Science Department. He concluded that he was
going to present the petition to Col. Outlaw but that “It's too late now.”

General Assembly Workshop Slated

A week-long college workshop on the N.C. General Assembly has been scheduled for this spring. Participants will attend committee hearings
and legislative sessions and visit legislative service and executive agencies. Interviews will be held with legislators, lobbyists, journalists, and government
officials. Any interested Davidson students should contact Associate Professor of Political Science W. P. Minter. Priority will be given to
upperclassmen with strong preparation in political and social sciences.

Mooresville, N.C.

The Hub

The Event You Have Awaited

SALE of all winter clothing

Large Reductions On Clothing for the pace-setting traditionalist

BEGINS JANUARY 18

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS

John Mack & Son

Our 55th Year

At Ford Motor Company we're always looking for better ideas. But not with a crystal ball. We do it with
background and brain. We do it by seeking answers for down-to-earth questions such as: Should a profitable central city dealership
be relocated to a growing suburban location? What's the sales potential for a new personal car? And we do it
by trying to solve problems that haven't been faced till now. Problems such as: Is an electric car the answer
to city traffic? How will people travel in the year 2000?

In short, our better ideas come from better people. And we take extra steps to get them. Ford Motor Company
has a College Graduate Program which provides immediate opportunities for individual development. In our rotational assignment system, graduates are assured
broad training and constant visibility to management. Right now, new products, new marketing programs, new subsidiary operations here and abroad
are creating new jobs. One could be yours. For more information, write our College Recruiting Department. Or better yet, schedule
an appointment through your placement office to talk with our representative. He'll be on campus soon—looking for better people with
better ideas.

THE AMERICAN ROAD, DEARBORN, MICHIGAN

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Dates of visitation: INC, Basye, Va. 22810

February 14, 1967

Phone 703-477-3171

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI.

On Campus

Merben (By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dodie Gillis,” etc.)

IT’S A NORTH WIND THAT BLOWS NO GOOD

Crushed between the twin millstones of January weather and final exams, you are saved from total despair, poor devils, only
by the knowledge that winter vacation will soon be here. Where will you go this year? Will it be Florida
again, or are you tired of jails? Then how about Puerto Rico? A most excellent notion, say I. A balmy
and bounteous island with long white beaches and blue, blue skies and green, healing seas. And, most pleasant of all,
the warm and gracious people of Puerto Rico! You don’t even have to know Spanish to communicate with this friendly
folk. Just learn three simple phrases and you'll get along splendidly: “Buenos dias” which means “Good morning,” “Gracias” which means
“Thank you,” and “Que será será” which means “Your llama is on my foot.”

In order to help you enjoy the fabled land of Puerto Rico it would be well for me to supply
a bit of historical background. (It would also be well for me to say a few words about Personna Super
Stainless Steel Blades because the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades pay me to write this column and they
are inclined to sulk if I omit to mention their product. Of course, they don’t stay gloomy long, for they
are kindly, cheery men fond of Morris dancing, spelling bees, and temperance punch—fine, upright types, as true and gleaming and
durable as the blades they make. And if you've tried Personna’s, you know how true and gleaming and durable that
is! And if you haven't tried Personna’s, poor devil, you've cheated both your purse and face, for Personna’s last and
last, shave after luxury shave, close, clean, nickless, hackless, tugless, gougeless, scratchless, matchless. Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades come in
Double Edge or Injector style and are made only by the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades.)

But I digress. Back to the history of Puerto Rico. The island was discovered by that popular discoverer Christopher Columbus.
Incidentally, considering Columbus’ popularity, it’s odd we know so little about him. What do we really know? Only this: He
was born in Genoa on August 25, 1451, the son of Ralph T. Columbus, a knee-cymbal vendor, and Eleanor (Swifty)
Columbus, a low hurdler. He was an only child except for his five brothers and eight sisters. From early childhood
he was an avid reader and spent all his waking hours immersed in a book. Unfortunately, there was only one
book in Genoa at the time—Care of the Horse by Aristotle—and after 18 years of reading Care of the Horse,
Columbus grew restless. When rumor reached him there was another book in Madrid, off he ran as fast as his
little fat legs would carry him. Disappointment, alas, awaited him there. The only book in Madrid was Cuidar un Caballo,
which proved to be nothing more than a Spanish translation of Care of the Horse.

Then one day Columbus heard from a traveler that there were millions of books in India, and he was instantly
ablaze to set sail. Off he ran on his little fat legs to the court of Ferdinand and Isabella (Columbus,
though more than six feet tall, was plagued with little fat legs all his life) and, as we all know,
he persuaded the Spanish rulers to outfit him with three stout ships, the Flopsy, the Mopsy, and the Cottontail, and
the rest is history!

Well sir, now you know all about the origins of Puerto Rico. So get packed and get going! You'll love
it! Stroll the beaches, swim the coves, breathe the fragrance of hibiscus and bougainvillea. And remember always that the friendly
Puerto Ricans are delighted to show you their customs, teach you their language. Why, I'll wager you'll soon know far
more Spanish than the three basic phrases. You'll know “Hasta la vista” which means “See you later.” “Por favor” which
means “Please,” and “El tren se para en la estación” which means “Your llama has eaten my passport.”

Gracias from the makers of Personna for giving our blades such a cordial reception, and, por favor, about trying another
of our luxury shaving products—Burma Shave, regular or menthol.
