FROM THE BENCH
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Davidson And Defense

Defense is Driesell. Various writers in the Carolinas and the East continually write about the tough defense Lefty always talks about and seldom says he has seen at Davidson lately. He was probably correct when he told the writers that defense was absent in the Bucknell and VMI games. Still, after a hard practice on Monday which stressed defense, we contained Furman, to say the least, even if there was not much to contain.

For years Lefty has been preaching that defense is the key to success in modern college basketball. His theory is based on the belief that defense will compensate for a poor offensive exhibition. Of course, when both the defense and the offense are lacking, we lose. This happened several times last year. Lefty’s brand of defense is stressed to such a degree that it was almost three weeks after the opening day of practice before we shot the basketball in an offensive situation. We ran through many ingenious drills designed to develop the “hardnosed” defense Lefty demands. We hit the floor, opponents, and each other with the dedication that only Cop Linker knows in giving parking tickets. These drills are not especially meant for a game in which the players wear little more than their underwear, but they are supposed to help win basketball games. “Davidson, defense, desire,” is supposed to be our slogan.

I remember last year when Diane McBaine, the movie actress, visited one of our practice sessions as a publicity stunt to promote her latest flick starring Elvis and others. She gave each of us a little gold “D”, suitable for putting on a girl’s charm bracelet, which I am relieved to say that none of us wore. Lefty asked her what the “D” represented. Naturally, she said, “Davidson,” and she was very confused to learn from Lefty that the “D” denoted DEFENSE! After seeing Miss McBaine, the team was sure the “D” stood for Diane.

Following our poor showing in the VMI game, the newspaper reporters heard Lefty vow that he was going to find “those on the team who could play defense.” Despite this statement, the bench did not get too excited. As we figured, the starting team for the Furman game was basically the same with the exception of Cook’s replacing Moser. Incidentally, following the game Tuesday night, Lefty commented that Moser played as well as anyone and that benching him must have given him added incentive. Lefty went on to say, “Maybe I won’t ever start him again!” Dave had no comment.

Despite our defensive flaws, or offensive, as the case might be, we have won three games, even if the teams we defeated were not exactly national powerhouses. Our schedule really starts Saturday with the game against Michigan. Most of us remember, as do those who saw the game last year, how we blew a nine-point lead with five minutes left and lost to Michigan. Still, revenge does not win games and we know it. To beat Michigan both offense and defense will have to be “hardnosed.”

Catfish Outswim Clock, Still Lose

Last Friday's opening swimming meet was spoiled for the ‘Catfish, as the University of Virginia won, 58-46. Coach Tom Stevens was pleased with Davidson's performance, however, as several school records were broken. “I was really happy with the boys’ performance this early in the season," Stevens said. “I hope that by the end of the year we can break all the school records.”

Freshman Jack Steele led the assault on the record book, setting new school marks in both the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events. His record-setting time in the 100 was 51.8 seconds. His 1:56.6 in the 200-yard race broke the existing pool record as well as the school mark. Bill Woodson, another freshman, broke the old school record in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5:49.5.

Davidson swimmers approached records in several other events. Although the ‘Catfish lost the meet, they won more first places than Virginia. In addition to Steele’s two wins and Woodson’s victory, Davidson won four other events. Mac Davis won the 50-yard freestyle. Team captain Eddie Beach won the 200-yard individual medley. The Davidson relay team won both the 400-yard medley relay and the 400-yard freestyle relay.

The swimmers are to have faced a strong Wake Forest team today at 3 in Johnston Gym. Although Stevens feels that Wake Forest is a stronger team, he predicted that the meet would be an interesting one.

Hopeful Cagers Overcome Raggedness, Win Openers

Showing flashes of the brilliance that Wildcat fans hope will be its signature, Davidson’s basketball team won its first three games. The wins came over Bucknell University, Virginia Military Institute, and Furman University. Although aspects of the team's play were sloppy at times, most observers are convinced that this year can be a very big one for the ‘Cats.

“Any team with as much talent as this will start off ragged. But I don't see how they can be anything but successful," said William & Mary scout Hubie Brown. Brown had just watched the team win a rather lackluster victory over Bucknell, 91-70. In that game Davidson played hot and cold basketball. They shot a torrid 61 percent from the floor but gave the ball away 22 times on turnovers. The ‘Cats showed a lot of individual strength in that game with Mike Maloy, Rod Knowles, Doug Cook, and Wayne Huckel hitting in double figures. But the team play was not impressive.

Then in the second game, the defense faltered and the Keydets of VMI gave Wildcat followers something to squirm about before falling 80-73. VMI, led by pesky 5-9 John Kemper, pulled within five points with three minutes left to play. But two timely free throws by Dave Moser and four straight points by Huckel pulled the game out of reach.

Then in the third start, the Wildcats put it all together to swamp Furman 95-68. The defense grudgingly gave up only 23 field goals. Meanwhile, the offense maintained control of the floor show, no matter who was in the game. Homer Garr, who had journeyed to Davidson to scout for Vanderbilt, said after watching the ‘Cat performance, “Watching a game like this is enough to ruin a man’s trip.”

The next two games on the schedule will be particularly tough. Michigan will face the ‘Cats in the Coliseum tomorrow night. Then Tuesday the Wildcats challenge Vanderbilt, in Nashville. The team’s success for the season will be determined to a large extent by the results of these games.

Freshman Scoring Factory Sweeps Opposition Aside
By DOUG HAYNES
Sports Writer

Powerful offense, team depth, and a relatively weak defense characterize this year’s freshman basketball team. In winning their first three games, the ‘Kittens have topped the century mark all three times, with at least eight frosh scoring in each game. However, the opposition is averaging a whopping 88 points a game.fell to Davidson in the Dec. 1 season opener, 114-101. Both teams were over-anxious, resulting in numerous turnovers. But the next night in Charlotte, the 'Kitten offense jelled into a better unit and whipped Clemson 105-73. Head freshman coach Jerry Conboy considered the first half of the Clemson game to be their best defensive effort yet this season. The halftime score was 51-20. The 'Kittens battled the highly regarded freshmen from Furman Dec. 5. The Baby Paladins had a quick offense, but it was no match for the crowd-inspired 'Kittens. Playing less as individuals and more as a team, Davidson leaped to an early lead, controlled the game, and crushed Furman 112-92. For the three games, Davidson's top scorers are: Ricky Snipes with a 30.3 average, Steve Kirley, 23.7; Duncan Postma, 15.3; and Mark Affeldt, 15.7.

Cook Leads Hoopsters Through Opening Wins
By JAMES ROLAND
Sports Writer

Davidson’s much heralded crowd of sophomores have made their varsity basketball debut, and already sophomore Doug Cook has emerged as a leader. Against Furman, the 6-6 Cook led the Wildcats in scoring, while playing less than half the game. He scored 19 points in 18 minutes, thrilling the crowd with steals, fast breaks, and one behind-the-back layup that nobody believed. There was one believer, however, in the press box. Homer Garr, assistant coach at Vanderbilt thought Cook was the strongest man on the floor Tuesday night. “He's got all the moves of a small man, plus size and strength,” Garr said. “He could've scored 40 points if he'd played the whole game.” Cook also starred against Bucknell and VMI. He leads the Wildcats with a 17.6 points per game average, hitting a strong 61 percent of his field goal attempts after the first three games. “He's agile, quick,” said Coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell of his sophomore standout, “and has as good offensive moves as any I've seen, maybe the best in the country. But he needs to get to the boards more and improve his defense. Of course, he's got the speed and the mental alertness he needs, and he'll gain experience. Doug will be a great aid to the team when he develops.”

Cook’s development as a roundball star has been going on for a long time. He played organized ball in the fifth grade, in Ho Ho Kus, N. J. In the seventh and eighth grades, when he was 5-11, he helped his grammar school to a 48-0 record. “I was the shortest starter we had,” Cook said, describing his contributions. Last year, while helping the Wildkittens to their perfect 16-0 season, Cook was second in scoring with a 22.5 points per game average, and picked up 14 rebounds a game. “I don’t get too many rebounds this year because I play further out, as a wing man,” he said. “Last year I played close enough in to get a few.” Cook is grabbing six rebounds a game now. Asked why he chose Davidson, Cook replied: “I liked the small college atmosphere when I visited, and I wanted to go to a school with high academic ratings and a strong basketball team. Davidson was what I wanted.” No matter what Doug Cook’s reason for coming, Wildcat fans are beginning to count their blessings now that he is here.

FOR SALE
1967 MGB - Red, fully equipped, 2 tops. MUST SELL!! Call Tommy Jacques - 892-6841 Ext. 57 8 to 5

OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students) This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. michels 375-9723 217 N. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 26202

Delicatessen Sandwiches
BIG Hamburgers
“Specials” different each day
Cheese Cake
Carry-out Orders
Bulk Quantities
Quick, efficient service

The 'Kittens will play one of their toughest games Saturday night against the Duke freshmen. The Blue Imps could be the team to snap Davidson's undefeated streak at 19 games that includes last year’s 16 wins. Duke has one of the best teams in the area, including three high school All-Americans. Assistant coach Terry Holland admitted this rating, but quickly added, “They'll get a chance to prove it Saturday night.” The Duke freshmen will have a height advantage. The tip-off will be at 6:15 in the Charlotte Coliseum. To the coaches, defense is the biggest problem facing the 'Kittens. Holland said, “We need a lot more work on defense. We don't have any height should Snipes or Kirley get into foul trouble.” Both Holland and varsity coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell stressed the importance of an enthusiastic backing for the freshmen, especially Saturday night.

look for the lime-green can ©1987, Colgate-Palmolive Company. See “The Flying Nun,” Thursday evenings, 8:00 NYT, ABC-TV.

The Davidsonian
December 8, 1967

Page Five

(Staff Photo by Weems.)

JACK JACOBS STRAINS TO ESCAPE
But Keydet opponent holds on for 152 pound victory.

Grapplers Drop Matches To Powerful VMI, Duke

Davidson's young wrestling team dropped its first two meets of the season. The first loss was at the hands of VMI, last Friday, 22-11. Then on Monday, the 'Cats were beaten by Duke on the Blue Devil mats, 21-12. A lack of experience was a problem in both matches. Davidson wrestles with five freshmen, under the new ruling allowing freshmen to participate in varsity wrestling. Both Duke and VMI used more upperclassmen than Davidson. The 'Cats jumped to an early 11-0 lead over VMI by winning the first three events. Then the Keydets showed their strength in the middle and upper weight classes. Colin Hudson won his 123 pound match by a pin. Dean Cromartie won a decision in the 130 pound event. Then, freshman Joe Cabanas outlasted his opponent in the 137 pound class, to win a decision. The Duke match was another close one for the 'Cats. Davidson wrestlers won four matches against the Blue Devils. Hudson won his second straight in the 123 pound division, this time by decision. Cromartie gained his second 130 pound win. Freshman Jack Jacobs won an upset victory for the 'Cats in the 152 pound event. Lowell Bryan added the fourth Davidson victory in the heavyweight competition. The third meet of the season is to have been held today in Williamsburg, Va. The grapplers met William & Mary in a Southern Conference match.

LIME, REGULAR AND MENTHOL