THE MANY SIDES OF C. SHAW SMITH (See Page Three) BEARD COMMEMORATES RUSSIAN REVOLUTION (See Page Two)

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1967

VOL. LVII NUMBER EIGHT

ODK Taps Brinkley, Burts, Eight Seniors

Eight seniors, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, and Dr. A. B. Brinkley were named to Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, in chapel on Tuesday. Election into the fraternity recognizes leadership on campus in five areas: scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications, and forensic, dramatic, music, and other cultural activities.

Bill Andrews of Richmond, Va., is president of the Red and Black Masquers and associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Stimulus chairman Mike Bates of Norfolk, Va., is a Dana Scholar and chairman of the Student Council Constitution Revision Committee. Cecil Clifton from Avondale Estates, Ga., is an Honor Court member and was director of the YMCA freshman camp and a basketball player. Member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Frank Fleming of Concord is also president of the Wind Ensemble. Rick Harrell of South Boston, Va., is president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, member of the Honor Court, and hall counselor. Dana Scholar from Elmont, N. Y., Rick Mildner is president of Sigma Chi and business manager of The Miscellany. Tom Rhodes of Lynchburg, Va., is defense counselor for the Honor Court, president of the Conservative Club, and holds a Scruggs Fellowship for extracurricular work in communications. Associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and secretary-treasurer of the Wind Ensemble, Geoff Seamans is a Dana Scholar from Chickasha, Okla.

Elected from the faculty were Burts, dean of students, and Brinkley, associate professor of philosophy.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

“I’M NOT A FOLK SINGER” Leonda wows ‘em at the d.

Leonda: Skilled, Highly Informal

By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

“Are they enjoying it?” Leonda asked, as it became time for her to return to the stage at the Hungry d Wednesday night. The statement characterized her highly informal, audience-oriented performance at the Hungry d. Leonda wore a blue tent dress and white stockings, with a blue ribbon in her shoulder-length black hair and a curious horse-chestnut necklace. Leonda sang in a sure, powerful voice, frequently flashing a broad smile. She played the guitar skillfully in keeping with the adept nature of the entire performance.

“I picked up playing the guitar from listening to records of blues and Indian singers and from just fooling around with it,” Leonda said. “I listened to a lot of blues singers like John Lee Hooker and Muddy Waters, and I wanted to express myself. I think if you're in a medium, like music or art, it will naturally come out and you'll start performing,” Leonda said, explaining how she started singing. “I'm a contemporary singer; I'm not a folk singer,” she added.

Leonda, who is a Cherokee Indian born in North Carolina, said that she does not particularly like to be publicized as an Indian. “I don't like this whole business of being a Negro, or a white, or an Indian; I mean, after all, we're all people,” said Leonda.

Describing her performance, Leonda said they are mostly spontaneous. “Sometimes I do the same songs, but you never know. It all depends on how I feel, and how the audience reacts,” she said. “I try to sing about groovy things, yesterday, today, and tomorrow,” she said, pronouncing “groovy” in three syllables, “ga-roov-vee.”

After the tapping ceremony, Will Terry, minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, gave the keynote address. He said that while a majority of Davidson students were accustomed to assuming positions of leadership before coming here, only relatively few are actually able to demonstrate their potential. Therefore, he continued, the students who hope to attain positions of leadership must be willing to accept certain sacrifices and assume a constructive attitude toward life at Davidson. He said that leaders must seek respect before popularity.

Terry concluded that the position of the college in future years depends on the initiative taken by student leaders, because they, more than the faculty or administration, will influence the development and improvement of the school.

TERRY SANFORD DICKSON PHILLIPS

Sanford Is Elected To Visitors Board

Fifteen new members of Davidson's Board of Visitors, former Gov. Terry Sanford among them, were announced this morning by President D. Grier Martin. Board members, including new members, are meeting here today and tomorrow. Outstanding men and women from business, religious, educational, and professional fields serve in this advisory group to promote the educational effectiveness and welfare of the college.

After registration this morning and a buffet luncheon, the group held its annual meeting at 2:30 p.m. in Chambers Building. Tonight they will have dinner at the Hungry d coffee house at the College Union and will attend the performance of Shakespeare's “The Comedy of Errors.” Tomorrow morning the board members will attend classes with students and may attend the Davidson N. C. State soccer game that afternoon. Members will probably leave after lunch Sunday.

Former Gov. Sanford was among those appointed to the board. Sanford's book, Storm Over the States, made headlines when it appeared in the middle of last month. Sanford contends that the weakening of states’ powers threatens U.S. government operation. His book is a summary of two years of study and research at Duke University. The work was financed by grants from the Ford Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation.

Also selected for the board was James Dickson Phillips, dean of the University of North Carolina Law School, who is known as a progressive.

Preyer Becomes Board Chairman

Judge L. Richardson Preyer of Greensboro was elected the new chairman of the Board of Visitors today. Two Charlotteans were chosen as vice chairmen: William H. Williamson I and Hoyt R. Galvin.

Student Council Plans New Look At Punishment Rules

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council decided Tuesday to appoint a Committee on Student Responsibility, whose immediate purpose is to evaluate the system of rules and punishment on campus. The committee will be com

Board Postpones Handbook Action

Action on The Miscellany and the Wildcat Handbook was delayed for a week at a meeting of the Publications Board Monday. The board also delayed final decision on the creation of a Photography Committee until a specific proposal can be drawn up by Earl W. Lawrimore, associate director of the news bureau, according to Publications Board Chairman Sam Boyte.

Buddy Newsom, editor of The Miscellany, and Boyte, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, are to present a specific amendment to the board constitution that would allow the magazine to rejoin the board. It pulled out last year. Boyte said the board will reconsider a Student Council proposal about the Wildcat Handbook after a new editor is elected this month. The resolution asked the board to find some way to ensure that the handbook was ready in time to be sent to freshmen before they arrived at school in September.

Elections for the editor of the Wildcat Handbook will be held Nov. 15. Bruce Weihe, elections committee chairman for the Student Council, said candidates for the position should file with the present editor, Mike Mooty, by Wednesday. Boyte said that the board's next meeting isTentatively set for Wednesday during chapel period in the Business Office. At that time, the board will rule on the eligibility of students who desire to run for handbook editor as well as reconsider the proposals which were deferred from this week.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, November 4
All Day
2:20 p.m. Soccer
Board of Visitors
Soccer Field
Davidson vs. N. C. State
7:30 p.m. Hungry I
College Union with Leonda

Sunday, November 5

Monday, November 6
8 p.m. Movie

Tuesday, November 7
7:30 p.m. Worship Service
Rev. Will Terry
2 p.m. Cross Country State Meet
Lingle Chapel
Raleigh Union
Welcome to Hard Times
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly
Love Auditorium
James Mosely
UFO Authority
3 p.m. Soccer
Durham
Davidson vs. Duke
6 p.m. Movie

Wednesday, November 8
8:15 p.m. Drama Production
Darkness at Noon

Thursday, November 9
12 noon Lecture
10:20 a.m. Voluntary Chapel
Dr. Nathan A. Scott
Prof. of Theology and Literature
Chicago Divinity School
Union
Hodson Hall
Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
Dr. Ernest Wright
Harvard Divinity School
8:15 p.m. Drama Production
Hodson Hall
Darkness at Noon

Composed of three Student Council members and several members selected from the student body at large. The problems it will deal with are those of fires, dormitory damage, open dormitories open to women visitors, the drinking question, and other related issues.

Council President Tom Earnhardt, who initially proposed the committee, suggested that two faculty members be appointed to serve on the committee and that the committee hand in its final report to the Faculty Disciplinary Committee for examination. Earnhardt said he felt punishment in many cases is just a "rap on the knuckles," especially in the cases for which campusing is the punishment. He said he hoped the committee can find a form of punishment which is "more corrective."

Junior Joe Murphy accused Earnhardt "of taking the administration’s side," and senior Mike May said most of the dormitory damage was harmless and "all of us do it at one time or another." Earnhardt said one matter that concerned him is fires in the dormitories and that such fires are not harmless. "I think students causing most of the dormitory damage are acting like high school kids and ought to stop it," he added. "A study of existing punishments may bring forth some more realistic approaches to stopping needless destruction of dormitory property," he said.

The council discussion finally centered on the realm of student responsibility, and the council decided such a committee would be helpful. Murphy, Clay Ford, and Tom Clayton were council members appointed to serve on the committee. Bill Watson urged the members of the committee to finish their report within a month so that the Constitution Revision Committee could have the benefit of their findings. Earnhardt pointed out that it would be advantageous to add faculty members to other student council committees and perhaps various committees of the YMCA, College Union Board, and Interfraternity Council, "so that they might give these committees the advantage of their knowledge and interest in particular areas."

Bud Cousar reported that his investigation concerning cuts in physical education was incomplete, but he said that there is a possibility of additional cuts.

Judge Preyer was appointed to the N. C. Superior Court in 1956 and was named federal judge of the Middle District Court in 1961. He is a fellow of the American Bar Association and a council member of its Judicial Administration. His family has been a constant benefactor of Davidson.

Galvin has been director of the Public Library of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County since 1940. He has been a leader throughout his career in the fields of library science, education, and history, and serves as a library consultant for dozens of cities throughout the United States.

Williamson is resident manager of Reynolds & Co., a member of the New York Stock Exchange. He is a trustee of Alexander Children's Home and the Mint Museum of Art, and is a member of several civic and social organizations.

In other action today, President D. Grier Martin made his annual report, stating that "the most important asset Davidson has is its people." The President praised the 1,000 volunteer workers and 5,000 donors that made the Ford Challenge Campaign a success. And he extolled the generosity of Edward H. Little of New York City, whose gift of $500,000 has challenged the college to raise an additional $1,500,000 to build a new library.

Newly elected member Smith W. Bagley of Winston-Salem, executive vice president of the Northwestern Bank, ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. House of Representatives against Rep. Nick Galifianakis, D-N.C., last year in the Democratic primary.

New members from North Carolina include: Mrs. Britt M. Armfield, Greensboro; Mrs. Robert W. Gorrell, Winston-Salem; R. Barton Hayes, president, Hayes Cotton Mill Co., Hudson; Robert G. Hayes, president, Central Distributing Co., Concord. Also Dalton L. McMichael, president, Madison Throwing Co., Madison; Allan K. Owen, president, Piedmont Construction Co., Winston-Salem; Dr. William Reid Pitts, chief of the Department of Neurosurgery, Charlotte Memorial Hospital; Herman H. Smith, president, McEwen Lumber Co., High Point; Nelson Woodson, attorney, Salisbury; and Peyton Woodson, chairman of the board, Occidental Life Insurance Co., Raleigh.

New members also include Peter Collin Coggeshall, vice president, Sonoco Products Co., Hartsville, S.C., and Monroe Bush, management consultant, Washington, D.C.

J. Scott Cramer, of Charlotte, vice president of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., has served as president of the Board of Visitors for the past year. New board members are nominated by the board members. A committee of board members and college officials makes the final selections.

DAVIDSONIAN Needs Reporters

A number of positions are still open on THE DAVIDSONIAN news staff. Any students interested in campus reporting, particularly freshmen, are asked to see News Editor Bob Dunham, Belk 224. Experience helps, but isn’t necessary.

Seniors Elected To Phi Beta Kappa

GUS COCHRAN
BILL FARR

Phi Beta Kappa has tapped seniors Gus Cochran, Charles Perry, Bill Farr, and Jay James for recognition as outstanding scholars.

Cochran is a political science major from Athens, Ga. He holds McConnell and National Merit scholarships and is president of the Interfraternity Council and member of Kappa Alpha.

Perry, from Greensboro, holds both Sears and National Merit scholarships. He is a history major and a member of Phi Gamma Delta.

James, a member of Beta Theta Pi, is a history major from Darlington, S.C.

Farr, a pre-med major, is from Thomson, Ga. A social affiliate of Alpha Tau Omega, he holds a Dana Scholarship.

Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest Greek-letter fraternity. It was founded at the College of William and Mary in 1776 to recognize academic excellence. The Davidson chapter was founded in 1923. Not more than eight percent of the junior class and 12 percent of the senior class may be elected.

JAY JAMES
CHARLES PERRY