The Davidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY
Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods.
Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.
SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief
BILL WATSON Business Manager
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1967

Don’t Stop Now
With the trustees' favorable reaction to the Blue Sky Committee’s report, Dean Johnston’s optimism concerning the possibility of reforming the college's curriculum seems no longer merely “blue-skying.” The committee report offers the kind of liberal educational outlook which will enable Davidson to move itself into the future with anticipation of better competition with the best liberal arts institutions. The committee made numerous specific proposals which are exciting enough to warrant implementation by next fall. However, there seems to be a danger that, having met with the trustees concerning their report on curriculum, the Blue Sky Committee's work may be thought virtually completed. The report discussed by the trustees’ Educational Committee was submitted last May as a “progress report” of the Sky Committee, and while discussing the “main structural features” of the new curriculum, it did not pretend to be the final word from the committee. The conspicuous absence of any comment on the Student Life Subcommittee’s report indicates that the parent committee’s May report should by no means be considered the comprehensive proposal from the committee. Because of the amount of data the committee is handling, all subcommittee reports should be treated and reported upon when the committee releases its final recommendations. To allow the later reports to die without the examination and publicity accorded to those released in the first report would be the exact kind of foot-resting from which Davidson is trying to escape.

Dangerous Move
A quick look at the college calendar for the academic year 1967-1968 reveals the startling information that classes begin after the Christmas holidays on January 2. For those not grasping the importance of this fact, this means students must return to school on New Year’s Day—the day after New Year's Eve. For the student returning to Davidson from Mooresville or Concord or Charlotte, this will not prove too great a hardship. The thought of returning in the late afternoon or evening of January 1 is only slightly aggravating. It is a different story for the student returning from farther away, someone who must spend all day—or more—traveling, leaving very early on the first of January. To leave for a tiring drive of several hundred miles after only a couple of hours sleep following a New Year's Eve Party is no pleasant—or safe—prospect. We urge whoever determines the official college calendar to exercise all of his or their efforts to extend the Christmas vacation one day in order to guarantee a less dangerous return to Davidson for those students who must travel a long distance.

Profitable Service
Married students at Davidson are not being turned out into the cold harsh world without a roof over their heads. The statement by Mrs. Peter Nicholls, dorm supervisor, that housing for married students has decreased does not mean that there is none available. Those who are advocating that the college build housing for married students are basing their contention on the fact that, while roofs can be found by all of the married students, the places available are often little more than that—just roofs. Jackson Heights, the group of apartments that shelters most of these students, has earned the name “Cardboard Village” because of its thrown-together construction. President D. Grier Martin had a stroke of genius back when he was serving as treasurer of the college. He proposed that the college loan money from its endowment to faculty members for the purpose of home construction. This plan enabled faculty members to create satisfactory housing where there was none and the interest rate on the loans produced income for the college. Other colleges across the country have since adopted this plan. When Patterson Fraternity Court was constructed, a variation of this plan was used. Money for the project was taken from the endowment; now it earns more money each year as each fraternity member pays a housing fee that represents income for the endowment. A similar approach could be used to provide housing for married students. It is more important for this housing to be functional than luxurious. But the inclusion of some of the latter quality would make an apartment building built by the college much more attractive to the students than cramped quarters now available. It would probably be impossible for the college to charge enough in rent to pay for the building in the next few years. Even so, such an apartment building would serve as a long-range source of income for the college. No one can tell whether or not the present fad of getting married while in college will continue. Therefore, it would be impossible for the college to attempt to house all married students in such a building. But at least the project would relieve some of the pressure for housing among married students and give many of them a respectable place to live.

Pacesetter?
Just in case the usual prophecies of doom from THE DAVIDSONIAN have convinced anyone that the college is hopelessly sunk in the Dark Ages, an encouraging note has been heard from the state's hotbed of radicalism at Chapel Hill. Over at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where the freshmen demonstrate their virility by sprouting beards instead of donning beanies, the student newspaper, The Daily Tar Heel, has looked wistfully upon the liberality of Davidson. In a Sept. 24 editorial condemning racial discrimination by fraternities, The Daily Tar Heel said, “Unfortunately, if a Carolina fraternity does take a Negro, it won't be the first campus in this state on which this has happened. Negroes have pledged at both Wake Forest University and Davidson College. “Which is maybe even more of a reason for doing it: to catch up with the rest of the 20th Century.” It is really too bad that Davidson cannot offer some token of sympathy.

Public Utility
A Wildcat Handbook is a Wildcat Handbook. Almost anything with a few basics will serve its purpose—to introduce the freshmen to Davidson and serve as a reference source for upperclassmen and faculty members. It takes something really outstanding in such a publication to be worthy of special notice, and that is what the ‘67 version of the Handbook is not. It contains the names, addresses and pictures of most of the freshmen (although several pictures are missing) and Richardson scholars (although one was completely omitted). The Faculty Regulations appear on easy-to-find blue pages. The Student Body Constitution unfortunately does not; it was left out. A few aspects of the publication serve to mark it clearly of the 1967 edition, particularly the comment on curriculum revision. The essay entitled “Education: ‘Poet’ and ‘Architecture’” although anonymous was also a positive addition. None of this is intended to indicate the editor's efforts ended in utter failure; they did not. The book would have served some purpose for the freshmen had it arrived on time, and it remains a good reference source for fraternity rush. But that’s all it is—somewhat useful, but uninspired.

Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Nationals’ Proposal Best, Directed To Real Problem
Dear Editor:
Perhaps some of the opinions in last week's editorial, “No Solution,” can be viewed in a different light. The statement, which, in talking about the system proposed by the national fraternity offices, said in part, “They shrouded their rejection in a resolution that just fails to accomplish the same goals that the fraternity presidents were aiming for,” is misleading. Most people know that the “goal” the presidents were aiming for was that of simply staying on campus. When faced with the choice of adopting most of the faculty’s proposals or losing their charters, they chose the former. Most people recognized this as a “shotgun wedding” acceptance. Also, the statement that two nationals “refused to recognize the status of social affiliate” was confusing. The nationals may not have recognized the status of a social affiliate, but they seemed to be acutely aware of the status of what, underthe impeding system will be an unwanted member. How does a club give a fair chance to an unwanted member? Our problem must be re-evaluated on a "real" basis. Bids lacking were deeply unwanted at the tee by a system based on individuals' desires for mutual voluntary association and brotherhood. The obvious problems concern the misimpressions of fraternities and rushees and the lack of time to reconcile these differences. The proposal by the nationals seemed to be directed toward the real problem. That is, instead of a compulsory system which arbitrarily assigns the unbidded boys to strange houses, let them have another look at prospective houses and another chance at membership. By this plan, the mutual need and want of boy for club will be satisfied. No rushee will be accepted by compulsion or will feel that he has been. All will be bliss.

CAREY HITE, '69
Davidson College

Solution Offered

Dear Editor:

Your editorial on Rep. George Brown was based on incomplete reporting. At the coffee hour, Brown did offer his proposed solution in a four-step program for peace:

1. "A complete cease-fire—stopping the bombing and halting offensive operations but continuing defensive operations."
2. "For the President of the United States to ask for an immediate reconvening of the Geneva Conference, which would be better than the U.N. because the only shred of international law in that area was created by the Geneva Conference."
3. "To go in and negotiate for the purpose of creating a condition under which the South Vietnamese people could elect a truly representative government."
4. "An international guarantee that the government would not be overthrown by violence."

At a press conference later, Brown vowed to "do his damndest" to help field a California delegation to the Democratic National Convention "so committed to using all their efforts to change our Vietnam policy that they will take every possible step to do that—even abstaining from voting for Johnson or walking out and picketing the convention."

EARL LAWRIMORE, '71
Associate Director of the News Bureau

Poor Start Could Hamper Student Exchange Program

The Student Sphere

One of the best ideas the Student Council has decided to implement this year is the Student Exchange Program, really a holdover from last year. Included in the program of one candidate for student body president last spring, this program was begun on a trial basis in May when five students from Davidson journeyed to Florida Presbyterian College, and Davidson in turn entertained four Florida Presbyterian students. According to Mike May, leader of the Davidson delegation, the four-day effort was mainly a "fun trip," from which nothing significant was really learned. About the most important lesson which was derived from this trip was that of putting the Student Council minutes in every dormitory. If this is the only worthwhile piece of information that can be derived from such trips, then the program is clearly in vain. The people involved in the program this year, however, believe it has much more potential than was indicated by the initial attempt.

The key to the program, according to Joe Kilpatrick, sophomore class president and head of the program, is organization. The students who travel to other schools must have definite purposes and questions to ask so that no time will be wasted during the few days the boys will spend on each trip. The underlying assumption so far has been that other schools have much that Davidson does not have. This is not always the case. The exchange should also make us aware of the strong points of Davidson College and should help us realize that other colleges are undergoing many of the same problems we are presently facing. The first college which members of the program hope to visit is William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va., chosen because of its similarity to Davidson and because it recently faced a fraternity crisis similar to the one which Davidson is presently undergoing. The whole program is idealistic, no doubt about it. But it can be reworked in a practical way so that the information collected on the trips can be passed on to the "right people," those who will discuss it, consider it seriously, and possibly implement some of it.

Looking Backward

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Return To Normalcy

I was lying on my bed Tuesday afternoon, doing nothing but contemplating my navel, when it suddenly occurred to me that it was the last day that I could get my annual picture made. Oh boy, thought I, a return to the glorious traditions of yesteryear, a return to the good old days when everybody gets to have his picture made with coat and tie, a return to the good old tradition of a straight, plastic yearbook. So thinking, I arose, donned my psychedelic cravat, plus a suit coat, and set out for the Union, where the photographs were to be taken. Not finding any windmills along the way at which to tilt, I arrived without offending anyone nor rocking any boats. Upon entering the building, my eyes were met with a long line of Davidson gentlemen, waiting to have their pictures made. The situation looked grim, but my state of depression lifted when once again it occurred to me that this year we weren't going to be subjected to the kind of hippy, weird Quips and Cranks that was produced last year. Last year’s yearbook didn’t even have any of that sparkling prose which usually chronicles the year’s activities. I missed the power, the vitality that usually informs a college/high school annual. Just think what we might be able to get this year, now that we've gone back to the old-fashioned kind of yearbook: 1967-68 was a year of change for Davidson College. New committees were formed, new clubs were organized, and the student body, after asking Dean Burts’ permission, asserted its power. Controversy reigned: violent arguments arose over the changed laundry and linen service, the rise in Union snack bar prices was passionately discussed. But through it all stolidly stood, as Gibraltar the firm, ready to face the world—the senior. Now that's the kind of thing I want to read in an annual. I can do without these depressing pictures of mud puddles and dormitory johns. My hopes now aroused by the thought of what the yearbook could be in this, my senior year, I willingly picked up the little card you have to fill out in order to get your picture made. I filled in the requested information, careful not to press my pen too strong on the card, so as not to bend, fold, or mutilate it. (I must confess, however, that I did consider spindling the thing.) To kill the time, I exchanged a couple of sacrilegious jokes with somebody, but the wait still seemed lengthy. Finally, my turn came, and I had my picture made to the jeering of several onlookers. Having spent so much time to get the mug shot, I feel that it is well within my province to suggest a few changes from last year’s yearbook, in order that we may effectively return to the tradition of pre-DwelleThelian annuals.

First, let's put athletics back in its proper place. I suggest full-page photos of Coaches Diesell and Smith, preferably glossy, together with half-page pictures of all the other nameless masses in the new action P.E. department. Kilgo’s picture in there wouldn't hurt. Secondly, let's put fraternities back where they belong. We need pictures of all the brothers, both individually and en masse, plus pictures of each of the houses. And, of course, it wouldn't be a Quips and Cranks without those cute little enigmatic statements, the meaning of which only the brothers know for sure. Finally, all the non-essential elements of the college really need no representation in the yearbook. I suggest that the faculty be left out entirely, and that only the clubs which mean something to the life of the campus be left in. Thus, for example, the Phi Bates really need no recognition, but it would be nice to have a picture of whatever that is, all the guys in the Beaver Club.