POOLE LEADS NATION'S PASSERS (See Page Four)

VOL. LVII

War Is Subject Of Peace Week

A planning committee of faculty, clergy, and students met twice this week in order to organize plans for a series of lectures, films, and free discussions on the subject of war. The program, to be entitled “Why War?" will be presented during a week-and-a-half period in mid-November. Exact dates are not certain, but the presentations will coincide with the showing of the movie, ‘The War Game,” and the Reynolds Lecture by Hans Morganthau. The committee, headed by senior B. A. Aiken, includes several students, Professor Samuel Maloney, and Will Terry, minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

The ‘Why War?" committee has set three purposes for the program. They hope to raise the question of the necessity of war, to discuss the concepts of war in general, and primarily to serve the purpose of the students who aren't sure how they feel about war. The group had originally considered a special program on the war in Vietnam but decided that such a presentation would limit discussions. Some of the topics suggested included the psychological effects of war, draft and the law, a world without war, alternatives to war, ethical problems raised by war, the economics of war and peace, and others.

At the present time, support for the program has been obtained from the College Union and the YMCA. Other sources are being sought for financial support. The committee, which met Tuesday and Thursday of this week, decided against a suggestion for an anti-war presentation, and also against a pacifist slant in the program. The program will offer, according to the committee, ‘facts from which students may derive their own conclusions about war.’

Parents To Visit Campus

Hide your pinups, freshmen: here come the parents! Sponsored by the college, the Annual Freshman Parents’ Day begins tomorrow. Cannon, East, and Watts Halls will be open to the parents from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. Every 15 minutes, beginning at 9 a.m. and ending at noon, guided tours of the campus will set out from the College Union. A luncheon will be served in the Morrison Room at noon.

The formal program will begin at 2 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Speakers include President D. Grier Martin, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Freshman Advisers Clay Ford and Tom Clayton, and Freshman Council President Steve Engstrom. The wind ensemble will play. Immediately following the orientation assembly, there will be a reception for parents and professors in the banquet hall of Chambers. Parents may attend classes with their sons on Saturday, provided that the professor has extended an invitation.

Warner, Porter, Warner To Sing

Warner, Porter, and Warner, a young folk trio, will appear tomorrow evening for a concert as a surprise offering from the Davidson College Union. Veterans of numerous television, radio, and concert performances, the trio, which consists of two men and a girl, record for RCA Victor records. Their performance will combine a mixture of popular, classical, and folk music. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room. There will be no charge for the concert.

War Protest At Pentagon Draws Davidson Students

About 15 Davidson students participated in the march protesting the United States’ policy in Vietnam last Saturday in Washington, D.C. The march, ostensibly a peace march, led to a confrontation between protestors and police at the Pentagon. More than 400 people were arrested and some were injured, according to a professional news service.

Junior John Pancake, one of the students attending the march, said that the march “may have accomplished something. It might well make the administration think twice before getting into a similar war." Sophomore Jimmy Withrow said he was “disappointed” because he did not feel that many of the people at the march were sincere in their purpose. Senior Bob Dewell described the march as “amazing.” He said that the administration must have been affected by “the fact that there was all that trouble over Vietnam.” He also said that “the effect of the march was lessened by the papers.” The press portrayed the demonstrators as “just a bunch of hippies,” Dewell said. The papers focused on violence, although there was very little, he added.

The crowd estimates given in newspapers were incorrect, according to Dewell, Pancake, and Withrow, who estimated the crowd at about 100,000. This was in contrast to estimates by the press of about 30,000 to 50,000 and to predictions by the organizers of the march of about 200,000. Withrow stated that “there was a lot of confusion.”

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, October 28
All Day - Freshman Parents Day
2 p.m. - Football, Campus Storrs, Conn. — Davidson vs. Connecticut
2:30 p.m. - Soccer, Soccer Field — Davidson vs. Pembroke

Sunday, October 29
7:30 p.m. - Worship Service, Lingle Chapel — Dr. Anthony Abbott
8 p.m. - Union Concert, Morrison Room — Warner, Porter, Warner

Monday, October 30
4 p.m. - Cross-Country, Soccer Field — Davidson vs. High Point
8:15 p.m. - Concert, Hodson Hall — Elizabeth Lasley

Tuesday, October 31
10:20 a.m. - Student Body Assembly, Love Auditorium — ODK Tapping

Wednesday, November 1
3 p.m. - Soccer, Misenheimer — Davidson vs. Pfeiffer
10 p.m. - Student Council Discussion, Union Lobby — Dr. R. R. Kincaid

Thursday, November 2
10:20 a.m. - Chapel, Love Auditorium — Dr. Kendig B. Cully, Dean, N.Y. Theological Seminary

Group Sets Regular Peace Vigil

Plans are underway for forming a Davidson peace vigil, patterned after similar vigils at Duke and UNC, to protest the war in Vietnam. “The purpose of the peace vigil is to enable people to make some public form of protest against the actions of our government in Vietnam,” said John Pancake, spokesman for an impromptu local peace group. A preliminary vigil was held Tuesday afternoon on the baseball field. About a dozen students attended. Vigils will probably be held regularly each Wednesday at chapel period. The vigils will be silent. Five other cities in North Carolina have had peace vigils. One is held in front of the Charlotte Post Office each Wednesday.At noon, Winston-Salem, Greensboro, Durham, and Chapel Hill also have vigils. “One of the reasons for having a vigil at Davidson is that it is difficult to attend vigils in Charlotte, and more vigils will be more effective,” Pancake said. There were generally three classes of people at the march: the hippies, the intellectuals, and the observers. Troublemakers came from each group. He described the intellectuals as the ones who “after reading about the conflict decided that the cause (the peace march) really was worthwhile.” Pancake described the protesters as a “diverse group of people” and said that “most of them were pretty responsible.” Withrow said that the part of the march which occurred before the crowd reached the Pentagon was fairly peaceful, and that after reaching the Pentagon, the march turned into “a mass rally where emotionalism takes prerogative over reason.” He added that when the protestors reached the Pentagon, many of them went “berserk” and tried to storm it. Policemen and soldiers surrounded the Pentagon and were stationed about 15 feet apart, Dewell said. “Reserves were available to reinforce trouble spots.”

Faculty LE PUNT RULE STIRS CONTROVERSY (See Page Four)

NUMBER SEVEN

To Receive Blue Sky Group’s Final Report Soon

Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston announced yesterday that the Blue Sky Committee will present its final report to the faculty at a special meeting on Nov. 15. Faculty members will receive a copy of the committee’s report well ahead of this date, according to a brief statement issued to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Johnston added that an open meeting will be held in the College Union before the Nov. 15 meeting for discussion of the committee’s proposals. Johnston, who is acting as chairman of the Blue Sky Committee, emphasized, “Adoption of this program, if it is adopted, does not mean that it will be totally implemented next year. It remains to be seen what resources will be available.” Faculty approval on Nov. 15 will be only the first step in making the Blue Sky curriculum a reality, he said. Resources for the program and approval of the Board of Trustees must also be secured. Johnston stated that he hoped to know “by Thanksgiving” what resources would be available for 1968 to institute the program, at least in part. He said the Board of Trustees had expressed a willingness to meet in special session to hear the faculty's recommendations on the program, if such recommendations are forthcoming on Nov. 15. If final approval is secured, the provisions of the program will be put into effect “as resources become available,” Johnston concluded. The provisions contained in the Blue Sky Committee's preliminary report issued last spring include a three-semester academic calendar, the end of compulsory ROTC, an honors college for students of exceptional ability, a non-Western studies program, and achievement examinations after the sophomore year.

Indian Scholar Finally Arrives

After a delay of over a month, Luigi Carlo Simonelli, Richardson Scholar from India, has arrived at Davidson. Simonelli was delayed in his trip to the United States because of financial problems involving the Indian government. According to him, India does not allow students to leave the country for foreign education in courses which can be taken in India. “Since I was trying to leave in order to study the courses I am taking, I found it difficult to obtain the necessary finances,” Simonelli said. An uncle who lives in London helped him solve his problems. This uncle was able to obtain financial support from his bank and thus permit Simonelli to leave. Fluent in English, Simonelli has been catching up in his courses. His major problem has been his economics course on banking. He said that he has found a vast difference in the banking systems of the two countries. Simonelli is the second of the Richardson Scholars to eat his meals in the College Union cafeteria. This was arranged in response to a request from Independents that the program allow one scholar to the Union. There are also 13 Richardson Scholars at Davidson this year, one more than the number of fraternities.

Board To Decide Status Of Literary Magazine

Proposed changes in the status of The Miscellany and the Wildcat Handbook will be decided at a Monday meeting of the Publications Board during chapel period in the Business Office. The creation of a photography board to supervise the publications’ darkroom will also be considered, said Sam Boyte, board chairman. Wednesday, the Student Council submitted to the board a resolution calling for changes designed to ensure that the handbook would be completed in time to be sent to incoming freshmen during the summer and to ensure that all important information is included. Boyte said that it was likely that the board would approve the request of The Miscellany to rejoin the Publications Board. The Miscellany pulled out of the board last year in order to gain more internal control for its Board of Advisers.

‘We’ve Got The Grossest People’

By KERN PARKER Associate Editor

The Gross National Product has received new and original embodiment here in a form that may leave the members of the Economics Department scratching their heads in bewilderment with one hand while plugging cotton in their ears with the other. This new manifestation of the GNP is not a startling breakthrough in economic theory but, rather, the world’s one, the world’s only, genuine, official, 24-carat 99 and 44/100 per cent pure rug band! The group's full name is Primeval Slime and the Gross National Product Rug Band. And the only thing that it has in common with its economic namesake is that its members are, well, gross. Take Primeval Slime, junior Ken Wallace, the band's founder, leader, and father figure, who may be seen around campus dressed in a 1920's “zoot-suit” coat or in a Schiavo Brothers Northchester Warehouse bowling shirt with “Andy” emblazoned above the pocket. Or take Wallace's mustachioed and pop-activist compatriot, senior Geoff Seamans, the band's lead kazoo (See GROSS, Page 8).