ar ah Bryan’s Pin Saves The Davidsonian January 13, 1967 Page Three ps. ~ < ’Cats’ Victory, 19-16) By BOB STUBBS Sports Writer The Davidson grapplers had to come from behind again to edge by St. Andrews, 19-16, here yesterday. The 'Cats blew a 9-0 lead and trailed 16-14 going into the last match. However, Heavyweight Lowell Bryant pinned Bob Pope to give the matmen their third victory in four contests. The victory did not particularly elate Coach Charlie Parker. “Not taking anything away from St. Andrews, we looked bad in the meet. If we continue to look this bad, we will not win again. Some of our men wrestled like they had never seen a mat.” Colin Hudson, Joe Buffington, and Dean Cromartie won their matches by decisions to give Davidson its early lead. Hudson, at 123 pounds, won 4-1; undefeated Buffington had little trouble in winning the 130-pound match, 10-4; and Cromartie prevailed, 6-0 to nail down three points in the 137-pound class. Tom Teal pinned Alan Jasper with 1:45 left in the second period. Then 160-pound Barry Albecs, down 2-1, reversed and pinned Jim Wilson with :48 left in the second period to give St. Andrews a 13-9 lead. Terry O'Hair’s subsequent 14-4 loss to the Knights’ Rick Reynolds left Davidson seven points behind. Jan Bartlett beat Julian Prosser 13-4. A forfeit to Kerry Keith gave Davidson a 14-13 lead. 

(Staff Photos by Weems) MALOY AND COMPANY GIVE “SWAN LAKE” INTERPRETATION Wildkittens Dump Undefeated Gardner-Webb, 76-70 -TOM COOK SPORTS EDITOR Point e xk * *, After 3 Th DAVIDSON'S BIG WIN over West Virginia Saturday night proved that the ‘Cats are capable of beating any team on a given night. That's what sports writers say about teams that they can’t figure out and don’t want to go out on a limb with predictions, but the phrase also applies to this team because when you get down to specifics, we can win when someone is hot enough to carry the team for a period. Saturday night a rejuvenated Tom Youngdale kept our chances alive while Wayne Huckel unwound. Then in the second half Mike O’Neill, who is the best shot on the team when he’s hot, teamed with Rod Knowles, who is gradually beginning to play the ball we must have from him to win, to pull it out of the fire. Another major difference between the holiday disaster and Saturday’s game was the number of turnovers. A team is killing its chances to win when it loses the ball over 20 times on violations and steals. We gave the ball away only 12 times, a considerable reduction, but still not enough to make us a consistently winning team. With their next three games, against Tech tonight, and Wake Forest and West Virginia, both of whom will be seeking revenge, winning is going to be difficult. After that, rebuilding St. Joseph’s and Richmond invade followed by a trip to Milwaukee to meet Marquette. Add to that a tilt with Warren Mitchell’s strong Indians from William and Mary, and you can see that pressure is going to be a continuing factor for the remainder of the season. WILDCAT NOTES: The Southern Conference cage champion meets a member-at-large school March 11 in the first round of the NCAA playoffs. Best bets for the at-large berths are Duke-killer Virginia Tech and Providence, who features that “other guy” from Laurinburg, Jimmy Walker, called by Princeton coach Bill van Breda Kolff better than Bill Bradley. Winner of that game meets the Atlantic Coast Conference champion at College Park, Md., March 17. A change in Southern Conference rules in December has given the choice of accepting an NIT bid to the school invited instead of replacing the conference ban on participation in the New York fiasco. SEEING THE LIGHT DR. TOM SCOTT is to be congratulated for seeing the student viewpoint on Coliseum date ticket prices. A major order of thanks goes to the Student Council which carried the ball. Bringing the ticket prices to half price gives a sense of uniformity to date ticket policy since every other athletic event we charge admission to offers a reduced-rate date ticket. THE MAIN PROBLEM now facing students is how to keep the ushers out of their hair. The trouble is caused by a few people (students impressing dates, parents, faculty families, etc.) who want to sit in their own seats. The rest of us, having tasted the sweets of first-come-first-served seating last year, aren't anxious to give it up. One of the best ways to alleviate some of the confusion is to tell those ushers who are the epitome of efficiency that you have already found your seat. By avoiding their services, we can make the student sections just that with less interference. * * * GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY’S decision to drop football was one in the making for over two years. Faced with competition from the Washington Redskins and having to play their games in huge D.C. Stadium where the rent matched the empty seats, the urban school reached the point where football was a sport which was largely forgotten by all but loyal GW fans (of which there were few). Their 1965 homecoming game with Davidson was attended by about 6,000 fans and Dean Rusk. What GW's withdrawal will do to Southern Conference football is complex. A likely outcome is that a couple of schools will not have enough games to qualify for the conference title without special provisions. Most likely victims will be West Virginia and William and Mary, schools which are becoming increasingly football-minded with their big games against Eastern independents. Davidson was scheduled to meet the Colonials in the opening game of the 1968 season. Probable replacement will be Presbyterian College whose contract runs out after this fall. THE LOSS OF GW will weaken the conference in football because the school has traditionally been strong. They had teamed with West Virginia, William and Mary and newcomer East Carolina to dominate the standings in the Southern Conference. Another long-range consequence of GW's quitting football may be the accelerated date of withdrawal of West Virginia from the conference because of greater aspirations. * * * NOTES TO THOSE WHO WANT TO KNOW: Claude Finney was Davidson’s first All-American, not Fred Hetzel. The greatest soccer player in Wildcat history beat Hetzel by one year, in 1963. Alabama doesn’t have any seniors on their basketball team either and they are doing about like us. Two differences: they haven't won a Southeastern Conference game yet and haven't lost but a couple of games against outsiders. The other difference is that no one cares about basketball down there anyway. The basketball press brochure compiled by the Sports Information office is a great improvement over past issues. Similar to the program, it contains the now-infamous cliches such as “If you like class basketball players, you'll love...” and the Lefty Driesell story, that touch and go story of the trials and tribulations of our leader. It also includes a page from last year’s book which lists seven home games in Johnston Gym and Ken Blair as a football coach. By DANNY WHITE Sports Writer The Davidson Wildkittens won their eighth straight game on Tuesday night by defeating The Citadel's frosh, 101-82, to bring their record to eight wins and no losses. The ‘Kittens had sent Gardner-Webb Junior College down to their first defeat of the season, 76-70, last Saturday night. The ‘Kittens met their hardest fight of the season at The Citadel. Paced by Willie Taylor's 20 points and Brad Clark's rebounding, The Bullpups led the ‘Kittens 45-42 at halftime. Poor ball handling and bad passes plagued the ‘Kittens in the first half. The ‘Kittens opened the second half with a flurry and soon caught up with the 'Pups. Mike Maloy and Doug Cook, playing their finest games as Davidson Wildcats, completely dominated the second half. Maloy finished the game with 34 points and 25 rebounds. Cook grabbed 14 rebounds and poured in 31 points, with most of them coming at critical times in the second half. Randy Jones played an outstanding floor game for the ‘Kittens and finished the game with six points. Jones’ passing and ball handling in the second half were major factors in the ‘Kittens’ comeback. Jerry Kroll grabbed 11 rebounds and scored 18 points and also led the offense against The Citadel press. Jan Postma collected six points. Rick Barton came off the bench late in the game and added four points. For the third time this season it was Barton who put the ‘Kittens over the century mark. Taylor led The Citadel's offense with 29 points, 20 coming in the first half. Taylor got into foul trouble early in the second half and sat out most of it. Clark, who outjumped Maloy on every jump ball even though he was three inches shorter, grabbed 14 rebounds and scored 15 points. Clark also got into foul trouble and sat out much of the second half. The absence of Taylor and Clark was the turning point of the game. The ‘Kittens gradually pulled away with these two on the bench and were never seriously threatened after this. The Wildkittens faced undefeated Gardner-Webb last Saturday andBoth teams showed the effects of the Christmas vacation. The Kittens made only 30 per cent of their shots in the first half and GW shot only 22 per cent. Davidson led 29-20 at halftime. Led by Willie Bridges, who ended the game with 31 points, Gardner-Webb closed the gap, but the Kittens managed to hold on and win by six points. Maloy led the Davidson attack with 20 points and 14 rebounds. Cook added 17 points and was top rebounder with 15. Kroll scored 16 points and pulled down 12 rebounds. Postma scored 11 points, Demoisey seven, Jones four, and Davis Liles one.

BASKETBALL TONIGHT
CHARLOTTE COLISEUM
6:30 - Freshmen vs. Brevard Junior College
8:15 - Varsity vs. Virginia Tech

INDIES TAKE TWO
Machis, Taus Chase Sigs
By GEORGE ROBINSON
Sports Writer

The undefeated Kappa Sigs coasted to an easy victory, posting a 100-46 romp over the SPE’s to cap Thursday night’s IMAC basketball action. Howard Morris pumped in 23 points, while “Pistol Pete” Ort and Joe Jetks contributed 14 apiece. For the losers, Fletcher Hartsell and Sam Hines tallied 17 and 15 points, respectively. The ATO’s had no trouble in bombing the SAE’s by a 75-49 margin. For the winners, Dave Jennings poured in 21 points while Super-Cecil Clifton stuffed in 16. John Hanselman added 12 more for the Taus. K. D. Weeks led the E’s with 19 points, and Charlie Cameron and David Hubbard each contributed eight.

Finmen Go On Virginia Excursion
The Davidson swimming team left today for a two-day, two-meet trip. The team will swim Roanoke College today in Roanoke and the University of Virginia at Charlottesville tomorrow. Coach Tom Stevens was not optimistic about his team's chances during the trip. He said it is possible that only six swimmers will make the trip. Eddie Beach, a valuable team member, is in the infirmary and Joe Friebele and Tucker Dalton, the team's best diver, are also uncertain as to whether they will be able to go. Stevens commented, “We will do the best we can with what we have.” He reported that the meet with Roanoke should be a very good one, but that Virginia just had too many good swimmers for Davidson to compete against them effectively. There should be some good individual races in both meets as the ‘Cats have some strong individual swimmers.

Behind Bill Barnette's 16 points, the Sigma Nu’s downed the KA’s, 46-37. Kirk Reed, a seasoned songster, and David King each contributed 10. Rounding out last night's action, the Sigma Chi’s breezed past the Betas, 68-52. Joel Williamson paced the Machis with 21 points. Tom Clayton and Geordie Mueller pumped in 15 points apiece, while Jeff Pflugner scored 14. For the losers, Hank Strickland topped all scorers with 32 points, while Joe Rice added 10.

In Tuesday night's action, the Taus downed the Sigma Nu's by 58-49. Clifton, Jennings, and Geoff Birkhead, who had 15, 14, and 10 points, respectively, led the winners. Toby Westmoreland paced the losers with 15 points while Bill Skinner tossed in 12 and Bill Ramsey contributed 11 points. Behind the 14, 12, and 8 point performances of Williamson, Clayton, and Mueller, the Machis edged the Gams, 52-49. For the losers, Doug Rhymes tallied 12 points while Rich Graham and David King each contributed 10. Dan Sweet added 8 more for the Fijis. The Delts edged past the Pi Kapps by a 45-33 margin. Ronnie Hunt and Wayne Rhodes paced the winners with 12 and 8 points respectively. Paul Curlee and Jimmy Robinson tossed in 16 and 6 points respectively for the losers.

STEAK
By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

Flashing signs of coming of age at an opportune time in the life of this year's Wildcat express, Davidson's hoopsters played their best pressure ball of the season in defeating West Virginia, 97-93, in two overtimes and The Citadel, 76-72. “We did a lot of growing up in the West Virginia game," said Coach Lefty Driesell. “The kids had their backs to the wall several times but refused to bow to the pressure.” Considering that second leading scorer Wayne Huckel had been slowed by an ankle injury in practice and that West Virginia was becoming as famous for coming back from numerous point deficits as the ‘Cats were for squandering them, the crowd-thrilling win over WVU has to rate as one of the greatest and most courageous games a Davidson team has played. Great individual contributions by Mike O'Neill, Rodney Knowles, Tom Youngdale, and Bob Pickens paved the way for the Wildcat win. O'Neill, whose 19 points in the second half (plus overtimes) gave him a game-high 28, hit four pressure foul shots in the second overtime to clinch it. Knowles also had a hot second half—17 points and nine rebounds—to finish with 27 tallies and 15 rebounds. Dave Moser also contributed an outstanding floor game, racking up eight assists as compared with the Mountaineers’ team total of six.

The Citadel game really was not as close as four points. When Mike Spann made it 21-20 with 8:37 to go in the first half, the ‘Cats began a surge which carried them to a 39-34 halftime lead. From the start of the second half, it was all Davidson. They enjoyed as much as a 15-point lead — 57-42 — during the first part of the second half, and only a last-minute scoring splurge by the Bulldogs made the game close. Along with the now expected fine play of Knowles and O'Neill, Moser and Spann had perhaps their best nights of the year. While Knowles was contributing 19 points to the Wildcat cause, Moser cashed in on 17, 12 of these by halftime, and Spann came off the bench to give impetus to the ‘Cats both in scoring and rebounding, totaling 12 points to match his career high. Although the lead dwindled after The Citadel's installation of the press, the Wildcats seemed to be more at home with it, if they could feel at home at The Citadel's armory. The main problem seemed to be that once the keep away was in effect it was hard to get in a shooting mood before giving up the ball. But the ‘Cats made enough from the charity stripe to stave off the Bulldogs.

CONFERENCE POINT AVERAGES
OFF. DEF.
WVU 87.0 82.6
The Citadel 80.4 72.8
DAVIDSON 76.8 72.8
Richmond 76.0 79.0
VMI 74.0 81.3
Furman 71.0 79.0
Wm. and Mary 65.8 68.5
GW 65.4 73.6
ECC 62.2 74.5

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

The most exciting game of the evening saw the Independents clip the KA's, 44-43 in overtime. Bob Peel contributed 12 points, and Weidner and Ray English each scored 8 for the winners. Reed and Hunter tallied 12 points apiece while Rick Harrell put in 10 points for the losing KA’s. Tallying the highest score of the night, the Betas crushed the SPE’s, 76-39. Macky Reavis led the winners with 18 points, while Arch McCallum and Eddie Rice put in 14 and 10 points respectively. Hartsell paced the losers with 19 points. The Kappa Sigs won their game over the Phi Delts by a 61-50 margin.

Youngdale kept the ‘Cats in the game in the first half with 15 of his 21 points and six of his eight rebounds. Pickens contributed a key steal against West Virginia's stall, setting up Knowles’ regulation tying jump shot with 44 seconds remaining. 

HOUSE SALE CONTINUES AT RUSH WILSON LTD.
Plenty of good bargains left
SPORTS COATS $29 - $55
SUITS $55 - $90
SLACKS $12 - $19
SWEATERS $11 - $22
SHIRTS $4.25 - $10
Good Range Of Colors And Sizes
Come in Today And Let Us Help You Make A Selection.
Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.

matron michel
217 N. Tryon St.
375-9723
Charlotte