Ca Sew. UNS VOL. LVI

Seven of Davidson’s most outstanding students were elected to Phi Beta Kappa on March 1. Election into the society is
Davidson's highest recognition of excellence in scholastic achievements. These new members will be initiated on April 24.

Steve Brown, a junior physics major from Hendersonville, holds a Dana Scholarship. He is secretary of Phi Eta Sigma, national
honor society, and Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fraternity, and is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Frank Fleming, a junior, is a pre-med major from Concord. He holds a National Merit Scholarship, a Dana Scholarship, and
the Alumni Association medal for leading the freshman class in academics. He is treasurer of Phi Eta Sigma, secretary of
Sigma Phi Epsilon, and is a member of the Wildcat Band and Wind Ensemble.

Chris Hawk, from Charleston, S.C., is a senior pre-med major. Hawk is president of Phi Eta Sigma, a member of
Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med society, and vice-president of Pi Kappa Alpha. A member of the YMCA Cabinet, Union Board,
and Publications Board, he is also business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a freshman hall counselor, and a biology lab instructor.

Kirk Reed, from Columbus, Ga., is a junior majoring in math. He holds a McConnell Scholarship and is a member
of Phi Eta Sigma and Kappa Alpha. Reed is also a staff member for Quips and Cranks.

Jim Rostan, a senior from Valdese, is majoring in business administration. He holds a Phifer Scholarship in economics. Rostan is
president of Omicron Delta Epsilon, national economics fraternity, and president of Sigma Nu.

Doug Woodworth, French major, is a senior from Waynesboro, Va. He spent two years studying in France at Montpellier and
Paris. He is a member of the Project of the Americas.

Cecil Wooten, from Kinston, is a senior, majoring in classics. He also studied in France his junior year, and is
a member of Le Cercle Francais.

Frist Circulates Petition Urging Draft Exemption

A petition urging that draft exemption be granted for civilian service such as VISTA, Teachers Corps, and the Peace Corps
is being circulated by Tom Frist. The main contention is that civil service in organizations such as the Peace Corps
can be just as valuable to our country and to individuals as military service. However, many persons are being discouraged
from applying to these organizations because they would have to complete military obligations after their civilian service. Some Peace Corps
workers have even been drafted while serving in Vietnam.

“The foremost objection to a petition such as this one,” stated Frist, “is that organizations like the Peace Corps would
be ruined by those seeking to avoid the draft. Selection for these organizations is very stringent, however, and an effort
to avoid the draft would probably be detected. Even those who would apply for this reason could make positive accomplishments,
and a job like this might change them.”

Civilian service would provide an opportunity for those who feel a duty to their country and yet who feel that
the United States’ involvement in Vietnam is immoral. The fact that Davidson is southern, conservative, and involved with the ROTC
Program may keep some from signing the petition, Frist said. It is not the number of signatures which is important,
however, but the percentage of the student body who sign. A similar petition may be sent to the faculty later
because of the interest that they have shown.

Students Vote Hike For Social

Davidson students have indicated their willingness to pay a higher social fee in order to get better entertainment for concert
and dance weekends.

Approximately 70 percent of the 500 voting in a referendum of the Social Council and the Union last week gave
their approval of a proposal to raise the social fee five dollars a semester, according to Social Council Chairman David
Jennings. About 450 voted in chapel March 2, Jennings said. A number of those absent or not voting in chapel
were polled this week. The final tally was 350 to 150.

Final decision in the matter lies with the executive committee of the Board of Trustees. Jennings said he had no
idea when the committee would take action. At present each student pays a $30 social fee, $15 a semester. The
aim of an increase, Jennings said, would be “essentially to get better entertainment. The best groups are raising their prices,
and getting them,” he said. “We want to stay in the bidding.”

The Social Council, which this year used about two-thirds of the social funds, puts on nine concerts each year —
one for each of four concert weekends and Homecoming and two each for Mid-Winters and Spring Frolics. Jennings would not
commit himself on specific groups or fees that the council would arrange if the proposed hike is approved also by
the executive committee. “It's just impossible to predict,” he said. He did say, however, that with additional funds the council
could conceivably once or twice get groups in the $4-5,000 range, such as the Lovin’ Spoonfuls and the Four Tops.

Faculty Approval Required

Social affiliation with fraternities would be offered to all who participate in rush under an IFC-passed plan to be presented
by the Fraternity Affiliation Committee to the faculty. Upperclassmen would be allowed to participate in rush. The social affiliation would
be on a rotating basis, with a minimum of two months to be spent at any one fraternity, but allowing
the affiliate to remain at one fraternity as long as he wishes.

The proposal would guarantee to every rushee at least six suggested date cards, at least two redates, and at least
one invitation to social affiliation. Bids would be of two types. A Type A bid would offer the rushee either
social affiliation on a permanent basis or pledgeship. A Type B card would allow a rushee to become a social
affiliate under an “optional rotating plan.”

ROTATION

The optional rotation plan would allow a rushee to become a social affiliate, but not necessarily on a permanent basis
or at the fraternity of his choice. However, the rushee would be as closely matched as possible with a list
of his preferences. At two-month intervals, the rotating affiliate would have the option of requesting another fraternity.

According to the committee's comments, which accompany the proposals, “Social affiliation increases the chances of a non-fraternity man receiving a
bid after the formal rush period, for he has an opportunity to overcome any initial unfavorable impressions.”

The proposal was placed in faculty boxes by the committee this morning, and is to be considered at the faculty
meeting Tuesday, according to Tom Covington.Fraternity liaison officer and assistant director of the college union.

REPEATED RUSH

The plan would allow a student to redeclare himself for rush each year, and the IFC would guarantee him social
affiliation for the following two semesters. Tom Earnhardt, polling 321 votes, and Ronnie Hunt, 198 votes, today won the right
to face each other in a runoff Monday for the position of student body president. Bud Cougar was elected first
vice president of the student body with 409 votes and Fletcher Hartsell, second vice president, with 331 votes. Sam Boyte,
Kirk Reed, and Tom Rhodes were victorious yesterday in the elections for publications editors and defense advisor. Boyte defeated Tom
Cook in the election for editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN by a margin of 371 to 294. Reed won the election
for editor-in-chief of the Quips and Cranks. He defeated Lindsay Davis 113 to 43. Rhodes was chosen defense advisor over
Tom Newberry by the margin of 512 to 128.

Next Thursday Marvin Sparrow and Dick Lindsay will oppose each other in the race for president of the YMCA. Other
candidates for YMCA offices are Joe Norton, Bobby Vagt, Phil Ray, Tony Orsbon, and John Williams for vice president; Robert
Norfleet, Ken Crews, Mac Hobby, Johnny Lientz, and Dave McClintock for secretary; William Brown, Mike Culbreth, Emerson Bell, Johnny Baker,
and Alan Pusey for treasurer. In other elections on March 16, the freshman advisor and cheerleaders will be chosen. Running
for cheerleader are Jim Furr, Johnny Durham, Fred Lowrance, Randy Bridges, Tom Cook, and Chuck Mendenhall. Tom Clayton and Clay
Ford are running together for co-freshman advisors against Tom Irons, Ken Tarleton, and Mike Powell. On March 14, Honor Court
members will be elected. The candidates are Dale Durham, Rocky Crosswhite, Tom Hart, Frank Heiner, Bob Finlayson, George Sproul, Pat
Bray, Ken Crews, Jeff Pflugner, Charlie Baker, Norman Hurwitz, and Jim Furr.

The committee, which was composed of eight fraternity members, one independent, Covington, and Jim Terry, assistant dean of students, did
its work under the impetus of faculty action of May 1966, which required that fraternities initiate a program of social
affiliation for all freshmen who wanted it. Rush parties and the rush schedule would remain the same as before. The
limitation on party attendance would remain at one visit per fraternity for dates and two for redates.

PREFERENCES

After the last redate party, the rushee will submit to the IFC a list of his six preferred fraternities in
order of preference. All rushees will receive either Type A or Type B bids; the matching of Type B will
be done by the fraternity presidents. The list of pledges and social affiliates would be published Friday night of rush
week, but no distinction would be made in it between pledges and social affiliates. The committee commented on Type A
bids that it would “greatly reduce any connotations of second-class citizenship in that even the man receiving a bid may
choose social affiliation, and all invitations are issued simultaneously.”

Bill Watson trailed Earnhardt and Hunt with 177 votes. In the first voting for the position yesterday, the vote totals
were: Earnhardt, 234; Hunt and Watson, 172; and Julian Prosser, 336. Bobby Vagt was the third candidate in the race
for vice president. He polled 300 votes. Eliminated in yesterday's voting were Mike Dickens and Bayard Miller. Pat Mullen and
Bob Wrenn were eliminated yesterday in competition for the secretary-treasurer post.

TOM EARNHARDT
RONNIE HUNT

Council Votes To Back Athletic Subsidization

By BOB DUNHAM
Staff Writer

The Student Council took a stand in the current controversy over subsidization of athletics Monday night by adopting a statement
which favors a subsidized athletic program. After much discussion and debate, the council, by a vote of 8 to 2,
adopted the statement proposed by John Fagg which reads: “We feel that the athletic system as it now stands at
Davidson College plays an important role in the life of the college. We further feel that the elimination of our
present athletic system would prove to be very detrimental to the college. Therefore, we call for a continuation of subsidized
athletics at Davidson College.”

The discussion centered around the question of whether the present system places a financial burden on the college. This was
the central issue at the preceding meeting, and discussion at that time was postponed until the figures could be obtained.
At the request of the council, President Chuck Matthews and council member Fagg, representing opposing sides in the discussion, interviewed
Robert Currie, college business manager. They presented the results of this interview to the council Monday evening.

According to Fagg, the figures given by Currie “don’t show that much.” Both Matthews and Fagg agreed that due to
various classifications of funds used in the athletic program, “it’s almost impossible to determine how much the athletic program costs.”
During the meeting, Fagg commented, “I feel that the figures show that it (subsidized athletics) helps, but then Chuck (Matthews)
has just as many points for his side.” He went on to say that, “there are just too many questions
here. It will take a year to solve the question.”

After the report on the unyielding interview with Currie, the Council set about to discuss the proposed recommendation. The argument
was somewhat unbalanced, since several of the members opposed to the recommendation were absent from the meeting. Matthews, one of
the opponents, criticized the present program and offered some “hypothetical suggestions” for a suitable replacement, saying, “We could have emphasis
placed on various physical education programs rather than spending our money on just eight percent of the student body.” “So
many things could be improved with that money. For approximately the same cost, we could extend the athletic program to
more sports and more students,” said Matthews.

In opposition to this idea, William Rikard stated that, in his opinion, “it’s not accurate to say that 92 percent
of the student body doesn’t benefit from the current program.” He pointed to the rise in student interest in the
athletic program since the introduction of subsidized athletics. Rikard further said that a majority of the students “want to maintain
our current level of competition.” He stated that (See COUNCIL, page six)

Hollander To Replace Entremont In Concert

Lorin Hollander, a 22-year-old pianist of world renown, will perform tonight at 8:15 in Love Auditorium as the second concert
in the current Artist Series. Hollander will replace another pianist, Phillipe Entremont, who was originally scheduled to appear. Entremont fell
and fractured his wrists earlier this week.

A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music, Hollander recently returned from a world tour with the Cincinnati Symphony, during
which he received rave reviews and numerous ovations for his performances. The tour reached many cities of Asia and Europe,
including Athens, Tel-Aviv, Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila, Tokyo, Taipei, and Seoul. The New York Times proclaimed Hollander as “the outstanding
pianist of his generation.” The paper went on to laud his performances saying, “his intellect and musicality match his prodigious
technique.”
