Runners Fall In Finale

The cross country team finished a disappointing seventh in the seven-team Southern Conference meet held in Richmond on Monday. William and Mary won the meet, edging out a powerful East Carolina team 30-44. William and Mary and ECU were the favored teams in the meet, and the results were not surprising to Davidson coach Heath Whittle.

Winning the event for the second consecutive year was William and Mary’s Donally. His 25:55 clocking broke the existing conference record by 30 seconds. The two leading teams were followed by West Virginia, Furman, VMI, Richmond, then Davidson. Whittle commented that all the teams in the conference subsidize cross country except for Davidson and VMI.

Finishing first for the Wildcats was Jim McLaughlin, Davidson's best runner all season. He placed 27th in the overall field of 66. John Puckett was Davidson’s second finisher, 32nd overall. Whittle said that he was reasonably pleased with the team’s performance through the cross country season. Now that the season is over, track attention turns to winter and indoor track.

By JAMES ROLAND
Sports Writer

Davidson's Wildcats, trying for a winning record, journey to Morgantown tomorrow to face West Virginia's conference-leading Mountaineers. The ‘Cats carry a 4-4 record into their final football game. “West Virginia is really a battle-hardened team,” said Coach Homer Smith. “They have played such teams as Syracuse, Penn State, and Kentucky. Consequently, they will be tough against us.”

The Mountaineers have compiled a 4-4-1 record, with wins over Richmond, VMI, Villanova, and Pittsburgh. Losses have been to Syracuse, Penn State, VPI, and Kentucky, and the tie was with William and Mary. West Virginia is a half-game ahead of East Carolina for the Southern championship, but tomorrow's game is important for them. “They'll have to beat us to win the conference title,” said Smith.

The Mountaineers depend heavily on an inside running attack with power formations, and were especially successful with this before All-American Garrett Ford was injured. He sat out the last game and may not play against the Wildcats. Tailback Bennet Siegfried has done a good job of filling in for Ford. Quarterback Tom Digon directs the Mountaineers.

Foglemen Fight To Finals Berth

Combining powerful offense and tight defense, Davidson's soccer team booted its way into the conference finals this week. The ‘Cats beat The Citadel 4-1 on Tuesday to advance to the semi-final game Wednesday. In that game, Davidson downed East Carolina 3-0.

In Wednesday's semi-final victory, Davidson’s defense stopped the Pirates of ECU without a score. Cliff Patterson, the Wildcats’ steadiest player, booted the first goal. Later, Peterson added a score. Then Carillo booted a penalty kick past the Pirate goalie to round out the Wildcat attack.

The two wins earned Davidson the right to face the winner of Friday's game between William and Mary and West Virginia for the Southern Conference title. Tuesday’s game with The Citadel was closely fought in the first half. The score was deadlocked at 1-1 until the ‘Cats were able to pull ahead. Alphonso Carillo, leading Davidson scorer this season, kicked two for the ‘Cats in that game. The other goals were added by Roger Peterson, Bill Horton, and Sam Bell. Bell's goal came on a corner kick that he curved past the goalie for a score.

Particularly pleasing to Wildcat soccer fans was the play of recently converted goalie Eddie Rice. Rice allowed only one score in the two tournament games this week, making many saves. Also contributing to the defensive success was the play of Jim Marrow, Bayard Miller, and Cliff Patterson. Several members of the team were outstanding in both games. Peterson and Bell played very well at their wing positions. Patterson and Carillo provided strong support as they have all season. Saturday’s final game will be played in Williamsburg, Va.

Delis And Nu’s Powerful In Early IMAC Hoop Play

By DANNY WHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

IMAC basketball action got under way this week and one thing has already been proven—this year's loop will be both tough and tight. The Sigma Nu’s took quick possession of first place by grabbing two close, but impressive, victories on Monday and Tuesday. Five teams including the Phi Delts, Betas, Kappa Sigs, Pikas, and Machis, posted single victories to stay right behind the Nu’s.

In opening night action Monday, the Kappa Sigs edged the Sig Eps, 33-25, to register their first victory of the young IMAC season. The Delts also posted a victory in their first outing as they blasted the Pi Kapps, 65-23. The Sigma Nu’s edged the KA's, 52-50, in the third game on Monday. Bruce Weidner and Toby Westmoreland had 14 each for the Nu's, while the KA’s Sam Hatcher hit 22. In the last game Monday, the Pikas, led by Joe Lansinger, pounded the Independents 62-47. Lansinger scored 19, while Bob Peel hit 14 for the Indies.

The Nu’s picked up a 52-49 overtime victory over the ATO’s in the first game Tuesday to pick up their second victory in as many nights. The defending champion Taus grabbed an early 16-2 lead but the Nu’s roared back to send the game into overtime. The Nu’s scored 3 points in the extra period while the Taus failed to score.

The Phi Delts opened their season with a victory as they edged the SPE’s, 62-55, behind Johnny Baker's 25 points. Fletcher Hartsell of the SPE's took game honors with a 28-point performance. The KA’s swamped the Indies, 81-47, in the third game Tuesday. Four starters hit in double figures to pace the KA attack. Bob Peel led the Indies with 18. The Machis racked the Gams, 54-36, for their first victory of the season on Tuesday's last game. Pete Norton led theMachis with 18. eer attack. When he throws, his favorite target is tight end Jim Smith, a 6-3, 215-pound sophomore. Especially strong on defense, West Virginia boasts of an All-American prospect, Carl Crennet, a sophomore middle guard. Senior John Mallory has been outstanding this year as a punt and kickoff return specialist. Also, tackle George Henshaw and linebacker Baker Brown shine for the Mountaineers. “West Virginia has probably the most complete football program in the conference,” Smith said. “Year in and year out they have the strongest team.”

Discussing Davidson's prospects in the game tomorrow, Smith said, “One doesn't distinguish between a challenge and an opportunity. That is our situation. The players know the game will be a challenge, but they also consider it an opportunity. They are happy about playing a team on as high a level as West Virginia. So we'll go up there with the same bag of tricks, hoping for an upset.”

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6581

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Davidsonian
November 17, 1967
Page Five

Poole Directs Offense As Cats Rip Terriers
By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Led by star quarterback Jimmy Poole, Davidson's ‘Cat football team won its last home game Saturday, trouncing Wofford 30-7. The gridders put together a rugged combination of offense and defense to gain the victory.

Poole, ranked high all season among passers in the nation, did not let down the fans who had come to watch his last home game. The consistently effective signal-caller hit on 21 of 30 passes for 187 yards. The ‘Cats’ ground game rolled out 249 yards to complete a strong offensive game. The defense held the Terriers to about 150 yards total offense and a single touchdown.

“We got started off well defensively,” Coach Homer Smith said. He cited Tupper Morehead and Dick Lindsay for their defensive efforts. Davidson controlled the play, both offensively and defensively, except for a period in the third quarter when Wofford marched 84 yards for their score.

Among Poole’s 21 completions were scoring passes to George Hannen and Pete Glidewell. Running backs Ken Hill and Kerry Keith capped a good running day with a touchdown apiece. Johnny Giles added a field goal to complete the Wildcat scoring. However, Giles missed an extra point attempt, the first he missed all season. Giles had come within a few more conversions of equaling the conference record for consecutive conversions.

“Jimmy did an exceptionally fine job of calling plays,” Smith said. “It helped us a great deal to have a running offense early in the game.”

Promising "Catfish" Open Schedule With Virginia

Coach Tom Stevens’ ‘Catfish open their season December 1 against the University of Virginia. The swim team, though weak in some events, should break most of the existing school records, Stevens said. “Being able to use freshmen this year will help us a lot. We have four or five frosh swimmers who could be outstanding.” The team has only three seniors: captain Eddie Beach, Larry Eckman, and Joe Friebele. The rest of the team is made up of sophomores and freshmen.

One of the frosh, Jack Steele, is expected to break school records in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events. Stevens said that Steele could possibly become the best sprinter Davidson has ever had. This year’s practices have been harder than ever before because the team has better swimmers. Stevens stressed that swimming is a hard-working sport and that the ‘Cats have been training especially hard. Stevens said that Beach is a great leader. “He has a terrific knowledge and interest in swimming. He is also one of the hardest workers I have coached.”

The team’s time trials will be held Monday night at 7:30 to determine who will swim in each event in the opening meet here on December 1. Stevens said that students are welcome to attend the time trials.

I won’t go into business when I graduate because:
a. I’d lose my individuality.
b. It’s graduate school for me.
c. My mother wants me to be a doctor.

Can’t argue with c), but before you check a) or b)—pencils up! There have been some changes. Drastic changes in the business scene. But changes in the vox populi attitude regarding business... especially on campus ... just haven't kept pace.

Take the belabored point that business turns you into a jellyfish. The men who run most of the nation’s successful firms didn’t arrive by nepotism, by trusting an Ouija board, or by agreeing with their bosses. Along the way, a well-modulated “No” was said. And backed up with the savvy and guts today’s business demands. In short, individuality is highly prized in much of the business world—the successful much. Even when the business is big. Like our Bell System teammates, the Bell telephone companies. This takes a lot of thought, decisions, strong stands for our convictions, (and sometimes some mistakes... we're human, every 160,000 of us). Individuality pays off. Not only in raises, but in personal reward as well. Like an engineer who knew deep down that there was a better way to make a certain wire connector and did. Or a WE gal who streamlined time-consuming office procedures, and saved us some $63,000 a year. Rewards and accolades. For saying “No.” For thinking creatively and individually. Not every hour is Fun Hour, but if you’ve got imagination and individuality—you've got it made. With a business like Western Electric.

We’ll even help you answer b) with our Tuition Refund program. Come on in and go for President!

Western Electric, the manufacturing and supply unit of the Bell System. We provide communications equipment for Western Electric.

MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM

Dave Jennings scored 15 for the Tau cause, while Hayes hit 19 for the Nu’s. The Betas began their season...

BALDING BOB PEEL’S EFFORT FAILS
Hatcher leads KA’s past hapless Indies.