Economics Discussions - See Business Defended

Sol Linowitz, former board chairman of Xerox, vigorously defended American business against charges of interest only in making money and failure to make relevant contributions to American life at last week's College Editors' Conference. Linowitz, who appeared at a panel discussion entitled “The American Economy” along with Professor Paul Samuelson of M.I.T. and Professor Robert Lekachman of the State University of New York at Stony Brook, defended business most strongly in response to a direct question from the editor of the Michigan Daily who served as moderator.

Linowitz, now ambassador in the Organization of American States, pointed to universities, museums, and other cultural centers which, he said, would not be able to operate as successfully as they now can without the aid which American business has provided. He referred to the International Executive Service Corps, an institution unfamiliar to nearly all those attending the discussion, which sends Americans to aid in the growth of business in underdeveloped countries. This organization and others are very effective in bringing about international economic and trade agreements, according to Linowitz.

In answering a question about the U.S. economy as a “guns and butter” economy, the panel agreed that the Vietnam war was not being prolonged by American business in order to sustain present levels of production. Lekachman pointed out that there are plenty of ways the government could spend equal amounts of money, mentioning especially the war on poverty. Samuelson, author of a widely-used basic economics text, agreed, stating that the U.S. could definitely make the change to a peacetime economy, but pointed out that Congress would probably not allocate as much to peacetime projects as to the pursuit of the war in Vietnam. He also pointed out that the government could return to non-deficit spending, but in response to a later question, stated that the question of a rising national debt is “not worth discussing.” He said the debt is actually declining in relation to the gross national product and termed it a “natural accompaniment of growth.”

In answer to a later question, Lekachman stated that he thought the poverty program is at least temporarily in trouble, pointing to the November elections which apparently produced a more conservative Congress. His statement developed out of a discussion of the claim that “the rich are getting richer, and the poor poorer” not only in America but throughout the world. The panel agreed that this was not generally true in technically advanced economies, but was quite true in the economies of primitive and underdeveloped countries.

Journalists Study ‘Generation Gap’

Last weekend saw four DAVIDSONIAN staffers journeying to Washington, D.C., for a conference of college editors on the theme “Generation Gap: Translators Needed.” The conference, sponsored by Newsweek and the Washington Post and held under the auspices of the U.S. Student Press Association, examined the validity of the motto of the Students for a Democratic Society, “Don’t trust anybody over 30.” Believing that today's college students are shaping values and moralities that are foreign to their parents, the editors looked at the generation gap in the areas of the American economy, arts, anti-communism and American culture, foreign policy, the Negro revolution, and the role of journalism in social change.

Managing Editor Sam Boyle describes the panel on foreign policy; Boyle also describes the reaction of the editors, who represented every area of the country, to the older generation. Bob Travers also writes of the discussion on the economy. Editor-in-chief Louis LeSarno took in the panels on the arts and the Negro revolution. Photos are by Don.

EXPLORE GENERATION GAP

Editors Challenge Status Quo

By SAM BOYLE
Managing Editor

Yellow tinged with shades of red must be the color trees pinned onto college newspaper editors by the more closed-minded of the older side of the “Generation Gap” who saw them assembled in Washington last weekend. The bitter concern of the reaction given to members of the status quo such as presidential adviser Walt Rostow and to the politician-philosopher Charles Frankel could easily, though incorrectly, be termed “yellow journalism.” Former Socialist John Roche, now “intellectual in residence at the White House,” characterized the young editors as reminiscent of his pinker college days. The most sincere applause given by the journalists was to one of their own, a girl who verbally drove her white-horsed idealism against the blackboard forces of older cynicism led by Frankel, a Columbia philosophy professor on leave as Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs.

Eloquent despite her unfairness, the blonde denounced the Golden Rule advanced by Frankel at the panel on “Problems of Values and Morality.” He had said that the fault of the Golden Rule was that it incorrectly assumed that others wanted to be done unto as one wanted done unto himself. Instead, he maintained that one should not interfere with the lives of others. Frankel argued that activists should use candor and be honest about the limits of an activist's attention. To try to do everything was to do nothing well, he argued. The blonde, reflecting the sentiments of most of her audience, condemned this position as one of unconcern, and she expressed shock that a person could hold such a belief in good conscience. “I hate the word ‘candor’,” she polemicized. “It makes me think of Lyndon Johnson and ‘all the beautiful rivers and trees of Texas’ and of all the billboards.”

Although the applause given to her was not as long as that which had been given to Walter Lippmann after his address on the previous day, it was more honest—the students, afterward, spoke more approvingly of the blonde than they did of Lippmann. His speech was generally considered to be true as far as it went, but so limited that it was of little value. He had spoken of the tendency of national leaders to think along the mental constructs of 30 or 40 years ago when their thoughts were being shaped by their college experience rather than along the reality.

Modern Art Discards Tradition For Novelty

KROLL (L) FINDS KAPROW INTERESTING

Editor And Professor Discuss Contemporary Arts

A somewhat traditional art critic ran into a stubborn hostility when he claimed that artists today are more concerned with novelty than the serious, painstaking work necessary for the production of genius. Alfred Kazin, critic, author, and presently Professor of English at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, deplored the lack of respect contemporary artists display for traditional works of genius.

LBJ, JFK Assistants Debate Vietnam Policy

Assistants to two presidents clashed on the response of the United States to North Vietnamese offers to negotiate, the continuity of the Vietnamese War under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, and on the basis for U.S. commitment. Richard Goodwin, special assistant to Kennedy and Johnson until 1965, took issue with the pro-administration positions taken by Walter Rostow and John Roche, special consultants to Johnson. Goodwin charged that Johnson had changed the war from a Vietnamese war into an American war and is now too preoccupied with the idea of a military victory in Vietnam to respond properly to peace offers from Hanoi.

Roche and Rostow both argued that the war is fully supported by the South Vietnamese and that the Saigon government is operating in a democratic manner. Both of these arguments were challenged by the assembled college newspaper editors. Rostow spoke in the composed manner of one who has often been called upon to defend the administration policies that he has helped determine. He claimed that the basic purpose of the U.S. in international affairs has been to ensure a world order of peace. As a minimum though not sufficient condition for such a peace, he said, is that military intervention across international borders to upset the status quo must not be permitted. This position was disputed in a question session that followed his speech by one editor who maintained that the principle was being violated by U.S. military intervention in Vietnam.

Rostow then claimed that the U.S. role there is founded not on principle but on the treaty commitments of the U.S. in the SEATO agreements of 1964. Goodwin denied this proposition. He claimed that he had been in on the sessions that decided whether or not the U.S. interest would go into Vietnam. The decision was made on the basis of U.S. interest rather than international commitments, he said. He added, “No treaty or piece of paper in the world could have made us go into Vietnam.” The argument of international commitment was advanced long after the decision was made, he said, as justification for an action that had already been taken.

Kennedy's decision, based on advice given to him that a small U.S. commitment in Vietnam would end the conflict quickly, was the real reason that he decided to send in military advisers, and this belief has been the basis for all subsequent escalation, Goodwin stated. He charged that the chances for peace in Vietnam are now limited by three actions of the U.S. First, he said that the U.S. has failed to respond “vigorously and brilliantly” to offers from Hanoi. Secondly, he said that from his experience until he quit Johnson's administration in 1965, he knew of no communication of U.S. bases for a peace settlement to North Vietnam. Without such a communication, Goodwin said, the U.S. can be “trapped into negotiations which can be very damaging to us.” The third prerequisite, he said, was that the U.S. stop or...of the existential situation. His only solution was to advocate that the purpose of education should be to instill a “wisdom” in students that would keep them aware of the cataclysmic pace of change in the world.

CHARLES FRANKEL

Those assembled at his luncheon address applauded spontaneously when he blasted the members of older generations for their faults, but they seemed to regard the poor hearing which hindered his interaction with the audience as symptomatic of his essential absence from the feeling that dominated his college-age audience. Most of the journalists assembled were certainly not of the activist group. One member of the Butler University staff seemed to find his perplexing questions about bombing North Vietnam. He maintained that the original reasons for the bombing had either disappeared or been proved false. Saigon no longer needs the bombing to uphold South Vietnamese morale. The bombing failed to halt infiltration from the north, and it failed to bring Hanoi to her knees. The bombing issue provided another direct conflict between Rostow and Goodwin. The former denied Goodwin's claims that the bombing was ineffective in stopping infiltration, claiming that it was instead the most effective means that the U.S. had at its disposal. Goodwin argued that bombing strikes against North Vietnam had not been aimed at staging areas for infiltrating armies as much as they had been at other targets. He claimed that forces located along the border between the north and south were more beneficial. He later added that continued bombing of the north puts Hanoi in a position of having to negotiate only from a position of surrender. He pointed out that no government which had any strength left would be willing to talk with complete submission as the only alternative.

Goodwin disassociated himself from the radical, anti-administration stance advanced by panel moderator Raymond Munro, Editor of the Boston University News, which included the impeachment of President Johnson for his policies that have led to “atrocities” in the war. In answer to a question, Roche charged that the protesting editors had “failed to do their homework” in claiming that politics in South Vietnam were undemocratic. He pointed out that Communists can vote in South Vietnam although they cannot advance any formal candidates. This statement was jeered by much of the audience but Roche went on to explain that the same situation prevails in democracies such as West Germany.

“Everyone today is a product of the avant-garde. The only awareness of the past is what comes from the contemporary artist,” he said. But Jack Kroll, senior art editor at Newsweek, and Allan Kaprow, professor of art at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, disclaimed the thesis that the arts are suffering and that the Generation Gap, the theme of the conference, exists. Kroll and Kazin engaged in a running battle over their opposing views of what art's essence is. Set against Kazin's view that art is a painful work of creation whose beauty can change the consumer's life was Kroll's tenet that “the goal is not so much a desire for an art object but to merge the art object and the living of life. Life becomes the aesthetic process.” Hence the Brillo boxes of Andy Warhol, as he sees the sterility of life today. But such works give no pleasure to the viewer, Kazin countered, and cannot be considered art. “People get tired of looking at pop art hamburgers,” he said, “no matter how much passion has gone into them.” Countering him, Kroll defended the validity of recent experiments in the visual arts. During the last decade, Kroll said, the artist has been trying to occupy the gap between art and life; thus the pop art experiments can be seen as attempts to erase distinctions between art and external reality. The newness of pop art, Kroll believes, is not the goal of contemporary artists; rather, they are searching for accuracy, and novelty is only a byproduct. But Kazin saw this novelty as the very essence of the so-called generation gap. The “self-conscious competitiveness of youth,” Kazin says, drives the younger generation to create something new for the effect of novelty, merely to escape the traditional patterns. Not so, said Kaprow. In fact, he pointed out, most of the members of today's avant-garde, for instance, Duchamp and Ginsberg, are men in their 40s and 50s. “It takes a matter of years for an artist to truly mature,” he said. The significance of the younger artists, he went on, is that they will pick up the work of the mature artist and imitate it.

The Davidsonian
FEBRUARY 10, 1967 PAGE THREE

Negroes Should Stress Economic Progress

American Negroes, exploited even in the Civil Rights Movement by the white race as a matter of expediency, rather than helped out of concern, are going to have to direct their efforts more toward the economic and away from the social realm in order to better their lot. That was the upshot of a discussion between two Negroes in their 20s and a writer for the Washington Post. The three were George Ware, coordinator of campus programs for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC); the Rev. Jesse Jackson, director of special projects and economic development for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference; and Nicholas von Hoffman, a reporter who is a veteran of the Mississippi Freedom Marches.

In the question period that followed, Moderator David Satter put forth the question, “In what sense does Black Power include social and economic power?” for consideration by the panel and audience of student editors. “The classic way that power is exercised,” answered Hoffman, “is not through the electoral process, but through social pressure.” He predicted that as Negroes get more of an economic base, they will get more opportunity to use this kind of pressure. Rev. Jackson observed that, “The problem is that we have not programmed our energies correctly.” Negroes must use their power instead to force businesses to allow them to enter into competition and establish their economic base. “The Negro community has the capital but it doesn't stay there,” Jackson told the college editors. “It goes off at an angle, rather than a circle.” He went on to say that the Negro community must program a means of channeling the money back into its own pockets. “We love money in the U.S.,” he quipped. “We'll fight over money, but not over God.”

Until Negroes can participate in the economic process and help determine what the patterns of consumption and production will be, they will continue to be at the mercy of such characters as white slum lords, Jackson said. Ware, on the other hand, saw Negro economic power as “the minimum prerequisite to remove poverty in this country.” He saw the crux of the problem as exploitation of Negroes and Asians inside and outside of the United States. Countering Jackson and Ware, von Hoffman said that the big money is not in the Ghetto, but in steel, oil, and electronics. Owning the ghetto is more a “psychological factor.”

Several members of the audience were suspicious of the two Negroes' emphasis on the economic aspects, feeling that they were neglecting spiritual values. “A lot of us have said that the entire system is wrong,” Jackson responded, “but we decided that one full stomach and a college education.” Ware took up the discussion, replying that, “We want to solve this (the economic) problem first, and when we get everyone on a full stomach, we'll worry about where we go from there.” Historically, the white race has used Negroes for their own cynical purposes, Ware said. “The laws have been used simply to put an end to protests, from the 1954 Supreme Court decision to the War on Poverty.” The second solution, after the gaining of Negro economic power, must come from the white community looking inward, in order to arrive at a permanent commitment to equality for Negroes, Ware said. Von Hoffman agreed: “Whites must work in the communities to provide an atmosphere of restraint,” in order to ease the petty restraints on Negroes in the ghetto by white police and politicians. “We are going to have to spend in the next few years,” he continued, “efforts on changes of social, political and economic structures. We're going to have to change our substructural attitude.”

SCLC OFFICIAL JACKSON: ‘Rights Movements Exploit Negro’