1 Second-Half Buries Paladin Five
By TOM COOK
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C.—Taking no chances of falling into the same trap as William and Mary did Monday night, Davidson jumped off
to their best start of the year and then bombed Furman out of contention early in the second half as
they shellacked the Purple Paladins, 97-67, here Thursday night.

With by far the best team effort since early in the season, six Wildcats hit in double figures and every
healthy man saw action as Furman was demolished in the second half after keeping pace during the first period. Top
scorer for the ‘Cats was Wayne Huckel, who teamed with Mike O'Neill to break the game wide open over a
four-minute period early in the second half. Huckel finished with 22 points on 10 of 15 field goal attempts and
two free throws. O’Neill pumped in 20 points. Contributing to the team effort were Tom Youngdale with 12, Rod Knowles
and Dave Moser with 10 apiece, and reserve Mike Spann with 11.

The encounter was probably Coach Lefty Driesell’s most relaxed game as he only came off the bench to protest questionable
calls by the referees, of which there were many. The Wildcats grabbed a 16-6 lead before Furman called a timeout
to regroup. When the game resumed, they began to cut the deficit to a respectable margin. Then two minutes later,
with 12:05 remaining in the first half, Knowles was forced to the bench with three fouls and was replaced by
Spann. Furman narrowed the margin to 32-29 with 5:20 remaining but Moser hit two jump shots and Spann tipped in
a shot to reopen a comfortable lead. The Wildcats took a 42-38 lead into the dressing room at halftime.

The second half was all Davidson as the ‘Cats outscored Furman, 55-29. Much of the second half was dominated by
calls which brought out the best in Driesell and assistant Terry Holland, but not without cause. For every two points
Furman could manage, the ‘Cats would score four with the Paladins committing more floor mistakes than the statisticians could record.
Late in the game, Driesell cleared the bench of every substitute except Mike Dickens.

’Cats Tangle With Soldiers To Close Regular Season

Rebounding from losses to Marquette and William and Mary, the ’Cat cagers will carry hopes for a winning season into
Johnston Gym Tuesday against VMI and Friday against The Citadel. The Wildcats will be protecting a 38-game winning streak in
Johnston Gym. The string of wins dates back to the 1961-62 season when VMI handed the ‘Cats their last on-campus
defeat.

“These are very important games coming up next week,” said Coach Lefty Driesell. “We hope the students will come out
and support us.” The Keydets, resting comfortably on the bottom of the Southern Conference charts, have already been eliminated from
the tournament. The Keydets are 3-11 in the conference and 4-14 overall. The Keydets dropped their last contest to The
Citadel in Charleston, 81-77, in four overtimes Monday night. All five Keydet starters average in double figures. Leading the attack
is John Mitchell, who averages 15.2 points a game. John Kemper and Ralph Wright both boast 13.8-point averages, while Doug
Clark averages 11.1. Steve Powers, Keydet center, is averaging 10.4 points a game and 14.6 rebounds, making him sixth in
the nation in rebounding.

“VMI has played everybody in the conference twice and has already been eliminated from the tournament,” said Driesell. “We know
they'll be trying to get us back after we beat them at Lexington.” The ‘Cats squeaked past VMI 82-80 earlier
this season. Rod Knowles paced the winners that game with 25 points.

The ‘Cats then meet The Citadel Saturday in their last regular season game. Davidson defeated the Toy Soldiers, 76-72, in
Charleston earlier this season. Guard Mike Debrosse leads The Citadel offense, averaging 14.4 points a game. He is followed by
center Dan Mohr with a 12.6 point average and Pat Conroy with 10.8 points a game. “The Citadel could end
up as high as third in the conference if they win the rest of their games,” Driesell said. The Wildcats
are now fourth in league play.

Through 21 games, the ‘Cats have been led by Rod Knowles, who has averaged 18 points a game and 12.3
rebounds. Wayne Huckel follows with 15.1 points a game; Tom Youngdale, 11.2 points; Mike O’Neill, 11.1; and Dave Moser, 8.8.

In other important conference action, East Carolina's Pirates take on Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va., tomorrow, while Furman tangles with
The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. tomorrow also. The Paladins then take on Richmond Monday and Wofford Saturday to wrap up
their home season. George Washington and West Virginia battle in Washington tomorrow. The two teams meet again Saturday at Morgantown.
William and Mary will host Richmond Saturday while VMI welcomes Samford Friday.

Kappa Sigs Smash Betas To Keep Unbeaten Record
By BOB STUBBS
Sports Writer

The Kappa Sigs easily defeated the Betas, 60-47, this week to remain unbeaten in IMAC play. Sig Ray Garrison led
the scoring with 14 points. “Pistol” Pete Ort and Pete Boggs contributed 11 and 10 points respectively to the Sig
cause. Big Hank Strickland had 19 tallies for the Betas.

The ATO’s, currently in second place, edged by the Pikas 52-45 and then crushed the Delts 59-32. John Hanselman and
Geoff Birkhead paced the Tau attack against the Pikas with 14 and 12 points respectively. Rick Moore's 17 points was
high against the Delts. Bebo Norman had 18 points for the defeated Pikas, while Ray Logan contributed 11 to the
downtrodden Delts.

The Sigma Chi’s were in fine form in pasting the Independents, 68-53, and the Sigma Nus, 83-39. Machi Geordie Mueller
had 18 and 21 points in the two games, while Jeff Pflugner poured in 22 and 14. Joel Williamson had
16 against the Nus. Tom Clayton had 24 points in the two games as well as numerous assists. Bruce Weidner
had 14 for the tough Independents. The Nus, sorely missing the services of top rebounder Rafe Barnette, were led by
Toby Westmoreland, who had 16 points.

The Fijis won two this week, thrashing the Pi Kapps, 73-32, and edging the Independents, 57-53. As usual Doug Rhymes
was leading scorer in the first game with 28 points but was held to 14 by the Independents. Barry McLean
was high scorer in that game with 16 points. For the Independents Bob “Peepsie” Peel had 21 points and Ray
English 18 to almost give them a victory over the fourth-ranked team.

In the most exciting game of the week the Nus edged the SPE’s, 56-55, in double overtime. It was by
far the SPE’s best performance of the year, but tradition held and they were toppled. Fletcher Hartsell had 22 points
and Gene Bennett 17 for the losers. Bill Hearn chalked up 21, Toby Westmoreland, 16, and “Stork” Ramsey, 12 for
the victorious Nu cause.

The E’s split two games, beating the SPE’s, 57-38, and losing to the Delts, 54-43. Ed “Pits” Armfield led the
rout over the SPE's with 25 points. K. D. Weeks chipped in 20 in that game to go with his
team-leading 12 in the first contest. Fletcher Hartsell was again high for the hapless SPE’s. This time he had 20
points. For the victorious Delts Ron Hunt and Cliff Duke both had 15 points. The Delts’ Cooper Adams scored 12
points.

The KA’s won their second game of the year with a 66-44 victory over the Pikas. Kirk Reed's 21 points
led the KA's while Rick Harrell tossed in 14. Jon Ward's 13 points was high for the Pikas.

The Betas rolled past the Pi Kapps, 49-32, this week. Mac Otts had 10 points for the victorious Betas. Jimmy
Robinson's 14 points led the Pi Kapps.

In freshman play, Cannon I and Cannon II were the best of the league. Cannon II scored an impressive 80-64
victory over East II. Steve Hayes with 25 points and Lynn Himes with 23 led the victory. Tom Hendren had
29 for East II. Cannon I beat Watts, 58-45, andEast I, 59-54, Mike Kelly had 17 and 14 points respectively
in the two games. Gordon Slade had 16 against East I. East I's tandem of Charlie Brockwell and George Hannen
combined for 33 points. Bill Traxler and Cliff Patterson had 14 and 12 points respectively for Watts. Against East II,
Brockwell got 24 and Hannen 23 to pace East I to a 64-52 victory. Tom Hendren had 17 for East
II.

The Davidsonian (February 17, 1967 Page Five)

WEARING OUT THE WELCOME?

WITH ONLY A WEEK left in the regular season, Davidson will return home to open a home stand which will
probably be the most successful portion of the season. Of course, next week should be a fun week not because
we are playing a couple of weak teams, but because the games will be on our home floor for only
the third and fourth times this season. Only the desubsidized jocks will argue that playing at the Charlotte Coliseum is
completely unnecessary. One doesn’t have to take Ernie Patterson for economics to realize that we can’t make much money in
Johnston Gym which might hold 3,500 if everyone kept their elbows tucked in at their sides.

In the past, the Wildcat schedule featured a few games which were of extraordinary interest and thus drew crowds to
match the caliber of basketball being played. But the gradual toughening of Davidson’s schedule has made almost every game a
“money” game and thus, the number of Coliseum games has increased and Davidson home games have become fewer and far
between.

UNFORTUNATELY, this trend will continue. Tulane and Michigan will return home games at the Coliseum next year, and West Virginia
will visit Charlotte as usual. There will only be one Wake Forest game, which will be in Greensboro next year.
Dropping off the schedule will be William and Mary and The Citadel. East Carolina will also be missed. That leaves
only Richmond, Furman, and probably George Washington playing us in the gym. This is only a partial list of the
schedule and other games will probably be added to the Coliseum slate.

Since most of next year’s schedule is determined, little can be done to bring more games back to Davidson. But
games with VMI are still up in the air. They want to play just one game next year and we
want to play it at Charlotte.

Tony Orsbon retained his perfect field goal percentage with one for one from the floor and three for four at
the foul line. Bob Pickens had three assists and one point as he fed Knowles for easy baskets underneath.

BOUND FOR REBOUND

Pomeroy (22) Culls Ball From Spann

Kroll, Postma Set Pace Over Ponies

By CAPTAIN TERRIFIC
Ace Sports Writer

GREENVILLE, S.C.—The Davidson Wildkittens plowed their way past the Purple Ponies of Furman, 82-71, as they extended their perfect record
to 14 victories without a defeat here Thursday night. Significantly absent from the lineup was Doug Cook, who was nursing
an injury suffered in the Duke game on Tuesday. Carrying the scoring burden for the ‘Kittens were Jerry Kroll with
30 points and Jan Postma, who contributed 25, 17 of which came in the first half.

The game had all of the atmosphere of a barnyard, as the ‘Kittens found it necessary to slow down the
floor game against the Purple Ponies, the zebras of the court, and the redneck roosters in the stands. Most of
the first half, the ‘Kittens attempted to feed the ball to Kroll and Davis Liles at the low posts. Displaying
his typical adaptability, Kroll returned to his high school position and gave evidence of his poise, netting 22 of his
30 points in the crucial second half.

In the first half, the two teams matched baskets as each team worked for the easy shot. With only seven
minutes gone on the clock, Kroll was benched for drawing his third foul. With Postma leading the way, the ‘Kittens
poured a warm 53 percent of their shots through the hoop. On one less basket, Furman hit 46 percent. The
‘Kittens paced the Paladettes at the half by a 37-34 margin.

In the second half, characterized by numerous fouls on the part of Furman's frosh, the Wildkittens maintained their lead, which
fluctuated between six and 13 points throughout the period. With 2:43 remaining in the game, Postma committed his fifth foul
when Furman had pulled within six points. But the overly-aggressive Ponies led the ‘Kittens to the foul line, where they
were able to widen their lead to the final margin of 11 points.

Fox DeMoisey contributed 11 points to the “Kitten cause, while Liles added seven. Randy Jones and Johnny Baker had five
and four respectively. Mark McCammon’s 23 and John Sansevero's 17 paced the losers. The Wildkittens’ next game will be Feb.
25, when they entertain the Bullpups from The Citadel, whom they defeated earlier in Charleston by 110-82, in Johnston Gym.
The Baby Soldiers feature standout starters Willie Taylor and Brad Clark.

IN THE PAST, the games we played in Charlotte were either against big-name schools or during campus holidays. But to
play the weakest team in the Southern Conference and split the gate is asking for over-saturation of the Charlotte area
with Davidson basketball. The logical solution is to play the Keydets here once and there once over the next two
years. To play a nonentity such as VMI in the Coliseum would be asking for trouble. Two of the games
this season were played in Charlotte because of the very same situation and they were the two lowest crowds of
the season.

Dr. Tom Scott is correct in playing games during the holidays in Charlotte and next year the pre-Christmas Charlotte Invitational
against a relatively weak field will occupy the first week of the Christmas break.

BUT IT IS OBVIOUS that Charlotte is becoming saturated with basketball. Dr. Scott admits that he anticipated a small turnout
for Tuesday's game because of the impending North-South doubleheader this weekend. With the increase of two new high schools, Charlotte
is becoming a poor locale for Tuesday night games. Ditto Friday night. Perhaps another indirect cause of the lower attendance
has been the frequently televised games from Chapel Hill and Duke which have been enough to satisfy even the biggest
basketball nut.

But to quit beating around the bush, the major reason has been the losses prior to most of the Coliseum
games which have dulled some of the glitter from Wildcat basketball. No doubt attendance should begin to toy with the
11,666 capacity level next year if prospects for next year remain as bright as they are now. This has been
a strange year, but it has pointed out a valid point as to the schedule. When there is a game
which is not against a frontrunner, let’s bring it back out here and have some fun. Most of the students
are awfully tired of driving to Charlotte and the critical lack of interest was apparent Tuesday when some cars were
carrying more than a safe load and the student section was only partially filled, due to humanities themes and reviews
the next morning.

DR. SCOTT saw the student side when the ticket situation was brought to light in December and January. Perhaps consideration
of student and player feelings would be helpful when future schedules are being formulated.

fight birth defects

MARCH OF DIMES

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
MAIN
Davidson, N.C.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Pipe Smoker

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

maton michel
217 N. Tryon St.
375-9723
Charlotte

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414
