WHY WAR? TWO ANSWERS (See Page Three) VOL. LVI (Staff Photo by Weems) “PLAYING THE ROLE OF METTERNICH” Morgenthau flays U.S. policies.

To Charlotte, And Beyond
By SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

Dr. Hans Morgenthau was to be picked up at the college Guest House at 12:30 p.m. Tuesday. By 12:25 p.m. his bags were waiting on the porch, and he was waiting on the walkway. He said he left with a good impression of Davidson students, but he was ready to go. He expected to have his bags carried by someone else, and, when they were, he set a brisk pace to meet the car that Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president, was driving towards him. The bucket-seated, navy blue Grand Prix drew Morgenthau’s praise. Bondurant acknowledged the praise with a couple of jests about the car's expense and headed towards Charlotte for lunch and Morgenthau’s plane for New Orleans.

Morgenthau has a Roman nose, piercing eyes and closely clipped white hair. He stands with a dignity and bearing uncommon in men of short, pudgy stature—the type that a professor of political science is expected to have. Because he is a German native, he might be expected to say “‘sie’’ instead of ‘‘the,” and he does. He said it several times in the sense of ‘‘sie liberal arts college” as Bondurant asked philosophical questions about the future of colleges like Davidson. Morgenthau dismissed the questions with the conclusion that the liberal arts college must be relevant to be (See MORGENTHAU, P. 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1967

OBSOLESCENCE
By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

A new foreign policy for the United States was advocated here this week by a noted political historian. According to Dr. Hans Morgenthau, the year's first Reynolds Lecturer, U.S. policy has become ‘obsolete. It was fashioned 20 years ago to contain the Soviet Union with a wall of force, but the world has radically changed.” The United States still views communism as a monolithic force, Morgenthau said, and this view “has led us astray throughout the world.” There are now many different communisms, he said, and the one in Europe that the U.S. is familiar with is “utterly insufficient for understanding the reality of communism in Asia.”

Morgenthau, a professor at the University of Chicago and former adviser to the departments of State and Defense, made two speeches—Monday night in Hodson Hall and Tuesday in chapel—as well as meeting informally with various student groups. Present U.S. policy was separated by Morgenthau into five “problem areas”: U.S. allies, the Communist world, the uncommitted world, nuclear weapons and the United States.

An Atlantic alliance based on U.S. nuclear superiority was constructed in the late 1940s and then destroyed when Russia developed the atom bomb, Morgenthau said. “From then on, it was possible for us to get involved in a conflict in which western Europe had no interest, and vice versa.” Communism is now “polycentric,” he said. “Individual national interest determines the policies, and so communism must be evaluated and dealt with on an individual basis.”

U.S. problems concerning undeveloped nations include a too general application of foreign aid and alliance with others “out of a mortal fear of communism.” We oppose revolution because communism is always a possible end result. “We are playing the role of Metternich: we will fail as he did... the U.S. should identify more with revolutionary movements,” Morgenthau said.

Nuclear weapons, he added, “destroyed the rational relationship of violence as a means to the end of foreign policy. Nothing but a 100 percent defense is a defense at all,” he noted. The present Vietnam war fits in all these problem areas, he said, and in containing China, the U.S. must first decide what aspect of China to contain. “China is the hereditary enemy of Vietnam. The U.S. has a missionary zeal to make them happy in our way. The ultimate paradox is that it destroys them in the process,” he said. “A strong Vietnam, Communist or not, is the most effective barrier to Chinese power. In the long run, it’s not probable that a foreign policy that hurts nationalistic feelings will be successful.”

But the most important problem, Morgenthau said, is coming to grips with ourselves. “There is no doubt that our priorities as a nation are in disarray... Involvement in Vietnam has deflected our attention from more important foreign and domestic problems.” “We must ask ourselves again, as many great Americans have, ‘Why does this nation exist?’” The answer to that, Morgenthau said, will “determine the future of the world.”

DAVIDSONIAN Takes A Break
Along with the rest of the college community, THE DAVIDSONIAN will take a Thanksgiving holiday. With this issue, publication ends for a week. The next issue will appear Dec. 1.

6 Manor Members To Dissolve Group
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson's only non-fraternal social organization, Lingle Manor, voted unanimously Wednesday to dissolve itself at the start of the second semester and to turn over the building and organization treasury to the Student Council. An explanatory epilogue to the series of actions charged the student government with the responsibility for providing “a realistic alternative to fraternity affiliation” and expressed hope that “the students themselves may be able to solve the problem.”

Up ‘n’ Coming
Saturday, November 18
All Day Football
2 p.m. Sacred Music Convocation College Church
Morgantown, W. Va. Davidson vs. West Virginia
2 p.m. Cross Country Charleston, S. C. Charleston Invitational
8 p.m. Movie College Union “Von Ryan's Express”

Sunday, November 19
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service
6 p.m. Movie Lingle Chapel College Union “Von Ryan's Express”

Monday, November 20
8 p.m. Lecture College Union Dr. Philip Secor “Why War?” Series

Tuesday, November 21
10:20 a.m. Student Assembly Donald M. Cook RCA, Director of Planning and Education
8 p.m. Lecture Dr. E. F. Patterson “Why War?” Series

Wednesday, November 22
4:30 p.m. Thanksgiving recess begins Love Auditorium College Union

The action came within a month of the announcement that the Board of Trustees had approved the erection of a new library on the site of the Manor. However, construction on the library is not scheduled to begin for another three years. Explaining the action further, the epilogue also termed Lingle Manor a failure and cited a hope of bringing attention to the lack of alternatives as one reason for the sudden action. At the time of the action, the group had six members, a decline of 13 from last spring. When it was first organized on May 4, 1962, the Manor had more than 50 members.

Dr. W. G. Workman, chairman of the faculty Committee on the College Union, Fraternities and Clubs, has expressed tentative approval of the action, according to a spokesman for the group. The provisions adopted included a requirement for conferring with Workman and provided for automatic reconsideration should he disagree. The faculty committee had been discussing possible alternatives to the Manor since the board's announcement.

Morgenthau Wants New Foreign Policy

Funds for this purpose would be able to finance the speakers. He said that the council's Monday chapel period would be utilized and that the speakers would also appear at an Open End program. The two congressmen have taken opposing sides on the OEO issue, which is national in scope. Galifianakis is an advocate of the program, but Gardner launched a major campaign against the program in Durham this summer.

Folk Singer Plays Free Gift Concert

Josh White Jr. gave C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, a gift Wednesday night that was received by a more than capacity crowd in the Morrison Room of the Union. The gift was a concert given free to the Union in appreciation of Smith. White’s manager, Chuck Ramsey, said, “Shaw has just done so much for us. We've been wanting to do this for some time, but this was just the first weekend that we were in the area.” White is a folksinger who has appeared at Davidson on a number of occasions. Ramsey said that he called Tom L. Covington Jr., assistant director of the Union, Monday to have him make arrangements for the concert. The idea then would be for White to walk in at 6 p.m. Wednesday to surprise Smith with the announcement that there would be a concert in two hours.

“Wildcat Handbook” yesterday in an uncontested election. The Publications Board ruled Baker an acceptable candidate last week, but the Student Council refused to approve him Monday because of “inadequate publicity of the election.” After an announcement in chapel Thursday and signs posted all over the campus drew no opposition, Student Council Elections Chairman Bruce Weihe said Baker would automatically be approved at the Monday council meeting.

“We are going to set a June 15 deadline for copy and an Aug. 1 deadline for the publishers,” said Baker, “in hopes that we can prevent the delay in publication which occurred this year.” He said the general format for the handbook would be similar to last year's, providing the staff maintains an adequate budget. He mentioned a two-page map of Charlotte and a special section including faculty pictures as possible additions to the publication. His experience for the position includes the assistant business manager post his freshman year and associate editor last year. He said he had considered the selection of section editors but was not ready to make any official announcements.

TOM BAKER - unopposed

Board To Meet Again Dec. 20

By PAUL SCHNEIDER
Staff Writer

The faculty voted unanimous approval of the proposed curriculum changes Tuesday, accepting with two minor modifications the entire report of the Blue Sky Committee, and thereby took the last major step before the report is submitted to the Board of Trustees for final action. The trustees will take up the recommendations, the product of a year-long study by selected faculty members and a few students, in a specially called meeting tentatively set for Dec. 20. Trustee leaders, meeting here Wednesday night with President D. Grier Martin, Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston, and Business Manager Robert Currie, went over the proposed changes again in preparation for the meeting. Here for the meeting were Trustee President Walter Lingle, Secretary William F. Mulliss, and the chairmen of the trustee finance and education committees, Charles Myers and Dr. Warner Hall. If the plan meets the trustees’ approval, implementation of at least some of the changes, probably including the three-term calendar, will begin next fall.

The two revisions made in the report by the faculty Tuesday were:
- That Thanksgiving holidays, originally scheduled next year for Nov. 23-Dec. 2, be shortened by about a week.
- That the requirements for freshmen who fail the proposed English exam at the beginning of their first year be broadened to include a course in composition as an alternative to weekly meetings with staff members.

Faculty decision on the Blue Sky recommendation that compulsory ROTC be dropped from the curriculum was postponed due to the absence of the professor of military science, Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, who was in Washington, D.C. The faculty is expected to take up the ROTC question in a special meeting to be called sometime before its regularly scheduled Dec. 12 meeting.

Holiday Extended 1 Day By Faculty

The Christmas vacation was extended one day by the faculty Tuesday. Heeding a recommendation of the Academic Scheduling Committee and the requests of a number of students, the faculty moved the resumption of classes from Jan. 2 to Jan. 3. In other business, the student request for additional physical education cuts was passed on to the Athletic Committee, which will make a recommendation before the faculty takes final action sometime next semester.