FULLBACK KERRY KEITH SIDE-STEPS TACKLERS TO BEGIN TD RUN
Powerful junior doubled Davidson’s ground gaining totals.

Gripes, Groans Mark Past Week Of Intramural Flickerball Battles
By JAMES ROLAND
Sports Writer

With irregular pass-plays, loud cursing and much griping about the officiating, the IMAC flickerball season rolled into another week, with
several teams in hot competition for a commanding lead.

“This season,” according to Doug Rhymes, president of the IMAC, “there is no particularly outstanding team. In the past, there
has always been one team with a great halfback and the schedule became a runaway from the start. But this
year the defense is controlling the tempo of the game.”

The referees have been under constant attack this year. “Despite a 25 cent per game increase in pay, the competence
of the officials has dropped immeasurably.” “Fraternity representatives should send officials who at least know what a first down is,”
Rhymes added. SAE Paul Rothert said he favors “some sort of training program for the officials.”

In last week's action, the Phi Delts clobbered the Sigma Nu’s, 59-6, scoring as often on defense as on offense.
The Sigma Chi’s edged the Pi Kappa Phi’s 7-6 in a close contest, while the SPE’s defeated the Independents, 12-7.
Monday, the Phi Gam’s improved their record with a 19-7 victory over the Kappa Sig’s. The ATO’s lost to the
KA’s 20-19, in a contested game whose validity will be decided in the next IMAC meeting. Monday also saw the
Delt’s beat the Independents, 26-7, and the Pi Kappa Phi's win their first one with a 19-0 shellacking of the
SPE's. End John Huggins and backs Larry Jones and Yates Fletcher starred for the Pi Kapps. The Delt’s then beat
the SAE’s, 46-6, Tuesday, while East 1 gained a forfeit over East 31. Cannon II defeated Cannon I, 26-18, to
tie East I for the freshman lead. In Wednesday’s play, the Sigma Nu’s beat the Pika’s, 20-13 in a game
highlighted by interceptions and re-interceptions. The KA’s beat the SAE’s, 6-0, to wrap up Wednesday's play.

Lowdermilk, Lee Pace DC Seamen Victory Over Duke Sails In Regatta
Tad Lowdermilk grabbed two first places and Jim Lee scored another to pace Davidson's sailors over Duke last Saturday in
the winners’ first regatta of the term.

Sailing on placid Lake Norman, Lee, Lowdermilk and the other skipper, Tom Kirtley, led the Davidson sailors to victories in
the first, second, fourth and fifth races, to give the ‘Cats a 4-3 edge in the race totals. Lee and
Lowdermilk fouled in the third race to give that one to the Blue Devils.

Lowdermilk said all the races were close and the competition “keen.” “It was good team racing all around,” Lowdermilk said.
The Davidson seamen used Jet-14s for the races. Crewing for the winners were Joe Kilpatrick and freshmen John Moore and
Lewis Riley. Davidson's next competition will be Oct. 28, when the sailors journey to Norfolk for the Intercollegiate Invitational Regatta
at Old Dominion College. Sailing there will be done in brisk winds which Davidson sailors are not used to, Kirtley
said, and may put the ‘Cats at a disadvantage against schools which sail in coastal areas. “Competition at Old Dominion
will be tough,” Kirtley said, “and many of the schools competing in the meet have been sailing under conditions similar
to those at Norfolk. Winds on Lake Norman (where the sailors practice) are a whole lot different.”

Booters Open
Davidson's soccer team opened its 1967 season here Monday by pulverizing Erskine's booters by 6-1. Center forward Alfonso Carillo, a
Richardson Scholar from Quito, Ecuador, booted in three goals, while insides David Dilley and Bill Horton and wing Roger Peterson
accounted for one apiece. Horton then followed Carillo's example. The inside took a pass during a Davidson drive and fired
it over the goalie's shoulder.

With the score 3-0, Coach Harry Fogleman substituted his second team. Against the subs, Erskine mounted its only successful drive.
An Erskine inside capped the attack with a shot past Davidson goalie Jeff Plainer to make the score 3-1. Early
in the second half, lineman Dilley added another point to the ‘Cat totals. Carillo then booted in his third goal
for the day, one short of the school individual record for the most number of goals per game. Davidson's final
goal came on a Davidson drive late in the second half. Inside Frank Heiner shot for the goal, but the
ball rebounded off the posts. Wingman Peterson trapped the rebound and fired quickly at the goal for the final point.

“We had terrific offense during the game,” said halfback John Flowers. “We must have shot about 50 times.” While Davidson's
offense hammered at Erskine's backs, the 'Cats’ defense held the losers’ attack in check for most of the game. Erskine
was able to mount only one strong drive during the entire afternoon. Standouts on Davidson's defensive unit include center halfback
Cliff Patterson and team captain Bobby Pryor, who played left halfback.

One of Davidson's telling advantages was team depth, a feature that has been lacking on Wildcat soccer teams in the
last few years, according to Coach Fogleman. This time Fogleman had enough players for two full teams and then had
a few men left over. One of the reasons for the added depth is the new conference rule which permits
freshmen to play on varsity athletic teams except football and basketball. There are about 10 freshmen on this year’s team,
Flowers said, and several of them, including Peterson, played.

The Davidsonian
October 6, 1967
Page Five

'Cats Stay With Pirates Until ECU Blitz Clicks
By GARY FAGG
Sports Writer

Sparked by Whit Morrow's TD run on the opening kickoff, Davidson's Wildcats kept up with East Carolina for most of
the firstHalf before the Pirates finally overwhelmed them, 42-17, here last Saturday. “Victory was well within our reach,” said Davidson
Coach Homer Smith. “The team was physically ready, and the boys were fired up for the game.” But apparently so
was East Carolina, as the Pirates weathered Davidson's first-quarter blitz and came back strong to overpower the ‘Cats in the
second half. Sophomore Whit Morrow set the pace for the high-scoring game when the 170-pound defensive halfback scampered 85 yards
for a touchdown on the opening kickoff. But East Carolina countered a few moments later when Pirate Coach Clarence Stasavich’s
offensive machine ground out 70 yards in seven plays to tie up the score. Davidson completed its scoring in the
second quarter when junior fullback Kerry Keith burst through the Pirate line and galloped 15 yards for his fourth TD
of the season. Senior John Giles added three points with a 33-yard field goal later in the quarter, giving Davidson
a short-lived 17-14 lead. But a 58-yard touchdown pass from tailback Dennis Young to end Jimmy Adkins vaulted the victors
into a 21-17 lead late in the half. Then tailback Neal Hughes rifled an 11-yard TD pass to end Bob
Withrow in the final seconds of the half. East Carolina's late half blitz was only a hint of Pirate power
which was displayed in the second half.

The Pirates scored twice in the half—once on a 14-yard run by fullback Butch Colson and then on a 24-yard
pass interception by wingback Todd Hicks, and crushed the ‘Cats offense to wrap up the win. Davidson runners gained only
54 yards on the ground.

Spiders, Davidson Clash Tomorrow

Davidson's Wildcats will seek to even their season record at 2-2 tomorrow when they go against the Spiders of the
University of Richmond at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium. After their loss to East Carolina last Saturday, the ‘Cats’ record
is 1-2. But the Spiders haven’t lost to Davidson since 1957, and several sportswriters have given them the nod in
tomorrow’s contest. Coach Frank Jones’ team, which consists largely of sophomores, lost to West Virginia and East Carolina but beat
Virginia Military Institute, 3-0, last Saturday to set its conference record at 1-2. But Coach Jones seems to be a
little less optimistic than the sportswriters. “Davidson has a fine team,” he said. “They have Jimmy Poole who is the
best quarterback in the Southern Conference and a good running back in (fullback) Kerry Keith.” Jones warned his team Tuesday
that Davidson would be a tough competitor, especially on its home field. Richmond will have to stop the passing combination
of Poole and receivers George Hannen and Pete Glidewell, he said, and foil Keith's running to hold the ‘Cats. Quarterback
Buster O’Brien will command the Richmond offense, which has scored only 16 points in three games this season. Against VMI,
O’Brien connected on 10 of 25 passes for 119 yards. The ‘Cats will be hunting for their second win of
the season after two losses. Davidson dropped one to VMI and another to East Carolina, while picking up a win
over Furman two weeks ago.

Harriers Bow To Deacs In Season’s First Meet

Davidson's cross-country team, running its first meet over the new five-mile course, fell Wednesday to a powerful Wake Forest squad,
15-44 here. The Deacons swept the first five places in the event run Monday afternoon. Deac runner John Hodson, who
paced the field, set a record for the five-mile distance with a time of 27:17 minutes. Davidson's Jim McLaughlin was
the first ‘Cat to finish, coming in sixth overall. His time was 31:12 minutes. Finishing right behind McLaughlin was John
Puckett of Davidson with a time of 31:23. Low score wins in cross-country. Davidson Coach Heath Whittle praised two freshmen
runners, who participated in their first varsity competition. Reeves Louthan finished fourth among the Wildcats and 10th in the meet.
Ran Coble came in sixth for Davidson and 13th overall. “We were not too disappointed by our showing against Wake
Forest,” Whittle said. “They have a subsidized program and they had run two meets already.” The Deacons have beaten North
Carolina State and bowed to Duke. “We'll do a lot better from now on, now that our boys know that
they can handle the longer course,” he said.

OPEN SUNDAY 2:00 - 7:30 P.M.
M&M Soda Shop
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

CASHION GULF SERVICE
COMPLETE AUTO SERVICE
Open 6:30 A.M. - 9:00 P.M.
Phone 892-9308
375-9723
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THIS WEEK Sept. 28-Oct. 4
SPECIALS
THURS. — Chicken Pan Pie, Peas & Carrots, Rice Pudding, Tea Or Coffee.
FRI. — Canadian Ham, Whipped Potatoes, Tossed Salad, Tea Or Coffee.
MON. — Bar-B-Cue Chicken, French Fried Potatoes, Cole Slaw, Tea Or Coffee.
TUES. — Spaghetti and Meat Sauce, Tossed Salad, Tea Or Coffee.
WED. — Roast Beef, Creamed Potatoes, String Beans, Tea Or Coffee.
Serving Hours: Mon.-Fri. 11:30 A.M.-2 P.M. 5-10 P.M. — Sat. 5-10 P.M.
Sundays—Buffet Served 11:30 A.M.-2 P.M.

Dance This Saturday — 9 P.M.-12 A.M.
JAY SMITH ORCHESTRA
Everyone Is Invited!!!
The Elk’s Restaurant
WINE License No. J-6102 — BEER License No. J-10339
Brown-Bagging Permitted
Corner W. Wilson & U. S. Hwy. 21 — Mooresville, N. C.
