FROM THE BENCH
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Overconfidence

Ever since the Holland-Hetzel-Snyder era of Davidson basketball, a new season has been looked forward to as an opportunity for
national recognition of the Davidson team. This year is no exception. Davidson fans are looking for a change from the
mediocrity that has been present among athletics since September. Everyone from the College administration to the janitors in Belk Dorm
expects the basketball team to do marvelous things and sweep opponents aside with relative ease. Observers talk about how good
the Davidson team is, but fail to mention the tough schedule that we face. No one is a pushover and
the players know it. The regular schedule is difficult, not to mention the two Christmas tournaments which look tougher than
the Southern Conference tournament.

When the renowned team of Hetzel, Snyder and company played, they had to “get up” for only five or six
games on their schedule while playing teams like Jacksonville U. and Wofford in between. No such luck this year. We
have to be ready for every game. True, we have some old grudges to settle with Michigan, William & Mary,
Duke, WVU, VPI and Tulane, but these teams think they are the underdog, and the underdog has nothing to lose
but the game which has already been conceded by the “experts.”

Having a good seat for the games, I usually feel the moods and attitudes of the team. We are entirely
too overconfident for our own good. The two pre-season scrimmages against N. C. State and Georgia showed none of the
all-important teamwork which must be there if we are to be a good team. Sure, we may run over Bucknell
and VMI with our good individual play, but against Michigan and Vanderbilt it could be different without teamwork.

The most asked question is “who is going to start?” The only positive answer I can give to this problem
is that I won’t. But even if the starting team is a mystery it doesn’t matter. Lefty says, “It’s not
the team that starts but the one that finishes that’s important.” Unfortunately, the finishing team is a mystery also.

It seems as though everyone from the townies at Hattie’s to the businessmen in Charlotte have been reading with breathless
anticipation, those pre-season basketball magazines, which rank us from third to 12th, depending upon how much the magazine costs. The
players read these, too. (We can read, despite rumors). Pre-season polls do little but to make the opposition angry and
give us a big head. As Lefty says, “It makes us think we are better than we are.” The pre-season
AP poll has ranked us 10th, one behind Vanderbilt, which is the only team on our schedule that is rated.
This means that all the other teams will be, as our coach said, “knocking down the dressing room doors to
get at us.” Dr. Scott better put in an order for some reinforced locker room doors. Bucknell and VMI will
probably be knocking down more than doors to beat us.

Experienced Grapplers Open Difficult Season

Bulletin: VMI 22 - D.C. 11.
By JAMES ROLAND
Sports Writer

With a much stronger team than last year, the Wildcat grapplers began their season this afternoon against VMI. The meet,
wrestled on the Davidson mats, opened a tough schedule of nine dual meets for the grapplers.

“Since VMI is a military school, it always excels in wrestling.” Coach Charles Parker said. “We have never beaten them,
though last year we should have. We hope to do better now.”

Davidson has strong personnel returning to this year’s team from last season's successful squad. Senior Lowell Bryan, captain of the
team, will be defending his Southern Conference championship in the heavyweight event. Colin Hudson, last year's champion in the 115-pound
class, will wrestle in the 123-pound event this season. Dean Cromartie was the 137-pound conference runner-up last year. This season
he will participate in the 130-pound division. Kerry Keith, who finished second in the conference in the 167-pound class, returns
to wrestle in that class. Keith was injured in the West Virginia football game and will be out for the
first three matches of the season.

In addition to veterans returning from last year's team, the grapplers will be using several freshmen. “The freshman eligibility rule
is a big aid for a small school like us. We have several frosh who should really help,” Parker said.
Seven freshmen will wrestle for the Wildcats. Frank Rader and Jack Jacobs are expected to be strong additions to the
squad. Rader was a West North Carolina high school champion. Jacobs was an outstanding wrestler in the Philadelphia area.

Although this Wildcat team is stronger and much larger than last season’s, it will be difficult for it to match
past records. The overall wrestling strength of the schools of the area has improved greatly. Parker said, “The Southern Conference
is a much better balanced league than it has been. There are several teams, notably West Virginia and William &
Mary, that are really strong from last year.”

Most of the teams on the schedule, especially N.C. State, UNC, and Duke, are able to draw really outstanding wrestlers
to their programs because of the scholarships they offer, he said. “We have some fine wrestlers, but we will be
pushing it to make good with non-scholarship boys against the competition we face,” Parker said.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Hatcher Is Chosen As Captain

Sam Hatcher, two-year veteran of the Davidson tennis team, was elected by the members of this year’s team to be
captain for the 67-68 season. Hatcher, known better by his nickname Pinky, has been outstanding on the tennis team for
the past two years. He played number two in both singles and doubles competition both seasons. Hatcher won the Southern
Conference championship in both these divisions both years that he has played.

Hatcher, a native of Columbus, Ga., has been an outstanding athlete and student while at Davidson. Playing a relaxed style
of tennis, he seems to win his matches with ease. Davidson’s tennis squad is hoping to continue its successes of
the last two seasons. The Wildcat fuzzballers have won the Conference championship both of the last two years. The prospects
of another strong team appear to be good with many lettermen returning to the squad. In addition to Hatcher, several
other conference champions will be playing for this year's team.

EXPECTATIONS TOO GREAT?
Basketballers Hope To Settle All Doubt
By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Davidson's “Darlings of Dixie” get off to a running start at the new basketball season, playing two games this weekend.
The ‘Cats open tonight in Johnston Gym against Bucknell. Then tomorrow, the Keydets of VMI face the Davidson five in
the Charlotte Coliseum. Coach Lefty Driesell is cautious when he speaks of the team's chances in both these games. Although
nearly all pre-season observers tab his team with greatness, Driesell

West Virginia's Mountaineers spoiled the Wildcat's hopes for an upset by defeating them 35-0 in the last football game of
the season Nov. 18. The ‘Cats ended with a 4-5 record for the season.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

feels that the success of the team depends on how it reacts to its first few games. Bucknell will not
be a pushover for the Wildcats. Three starters return from last year’s team to give them a firm base of
talent. Although they finished with an unimpressive 11-11 record last season, the experience of the veterans and the ability of
sophomore Jim Wherry should make Bucknell dangerous this year. Wherry, a 6-4 forward, could possibly be the best sophomore in
the country, Driesell said. Bucknell will probably play a pressing defense. “They are a good, well-coached team. I know they
will be out to get us,” Driesell added. He said that he was not sure yet who will start for
Davidson. “The type of game that they play will determine who plays for us.” When asked how the ‘Cats have
developed through the pre-season workouts, Driesell again became cautious in his replies. “I can’t really say how we have developed
until we play some games and see how we react.”

(Photo by Sports Information Office.)

NEW UNIFORMS, EAGER FACES, HIGH ASPIRATIONS | Overconfident, overrated, unprepared or better than ever? Season should tell.

Mounties Crush WVU Easy "Cat Upset Hope

When asked about the game Coach Homer Smith said, “We got beat, 35-0, and we have no excuses. It was
not a day when Davidson football was embarrassed by the effort.” The weather's being extremely cold, windy, and muddy hindered
the ‘Cats. Two early interceptions hurt the offensive drives and before Davidson knew it they were out of the game.
There were several bad breaks from the start. The ‘Cats came back after the first WVU score only to have
a pass deflected, popped up, and run back by John Malory, the WVU safety, for a Mountaineer score. The ‘Cats
were then down 14-0 without the WVU offense running a single play. West Virginia's size and strength were not the
problem, Smith said. The ‘Cats outgained them and made more first downs. Gordon Slade played part of the game at
quarterback and completed 13 of 20 passes in the game. Smith said of Slade, “We have long known of Slade’s
potential and he has played in all games but one. Next year he will be an experienced quarterback.” For the
season, the overall highlight from the coach's point of view was the way the defense pulled together in mid-season for
several strong performances. Smith said, “I think the sophomores got two seasons worth of experience. Next year we will be
a better football team.”

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop

Conference Champions

West Virginia rolled by the Davidson soccer team, 5-0, in the finals of the Southern Conference tournament on Nov. 18
in Williamsburg, Va., to take their second straight league championship. The Mountaineers, paced by experienced veterans from last year’s championship
squad, controlled the game from the start as they jumped off to an early lead and held the Wildcats scoreless.
The Davidson offensive attack was hampered by the loss of Alphonso Carillo, a Richardson scholar from Ecuador, who did not
see any action due to a leg injury suffered in the East Carolina game. The Wildcats reached the finals by
crushing East Carolina, 3-0, in a semifinal match.

Here’s How to Be a Real Santa!

Make this a Diamond Christmas! Choose now for Christmas! Start payments in January!

December 1, 1967 Page Five

VMI is also expected to be very strong. They have four starters back from last year’s squad. The Wildcats only
beat the Keydets by two and four points in their two games last season. John Kemper and John Mitchell are
two high-scoring guards who will head the VMI attack. Steve Powers, a 6-6 center, was the nation’s eighth leading rebounder
last year. He will give the Keydets, not particularly tall overall, much rebounding strength. Pre-season polls pick the Wildcats for
the top ten in the nation, but Driesell is not convinced. “I think we are overrated. It’s nice that they
think we're that good. We'll try to prove that we are, but I'm not sure that we are.” The Wildcats
will try to play a fast, running type of game this season. They have worked hard on defense and will
probably use the press frequently. The basic defense will be a man-for-man. After the openers this weekend, the Wildcats face
Furman back on the Davidson hardwoods. The Purple Paladins have always been a strong opponent for the ‘Cats. Driesell said
that he hopes that the student body will support the team this year. “I think the last couple years school
spirit has been down.”

Optimistic Swimmers Host Virginia In Today’s Opener

Davidson's swimming team opened its season with a tough dual meet against the University of Virginia here today. Tom Stevens,
coach of the ‘Catfish, said that the Cavaliers were favored to win the meet, but that he expected several events
to be very interesting. The Davidson swimmers have been working out since Oct. 15 in preparation for the season. “We
have a really good team. The freshmen should help us quite a bit,” Stevens said. A young team, the swimmers
are expected to be weak in several events this season. The main weak areas are in the butterfly and breaststroke.
Coach Stevens has not decided who will swim in each event. Team captain Eddie Beach, a senior, will probably swim
in the individual medley and breaststroke. Sophomore Mac Davis should participate in the sprint events, races shorter than 200 yards.
Freshman Jack Steele, a very promising addition to the tank team, will swim the freestyle sprint. George Steele will be
used in both freestyle and backstroke events. Doug Scott and Jeff Loughridge will be used in the butterfly. Bill Woodson,
whom Stevens calls an “all-around good swimmer,” will be used wherever needed. The opener against Virginia begins the ‘Catfish slate
of nine swim meets. The only other home meet before Christmas will be a meet against Wake Forest, Dec. 8.
The season will be capped by the Southern Conference championship event in March. Wednesday night the Davidson swimmers defeated the
team from Johnson C. Smith University in the ‘Catfish waters in a practice meet. Coach Stevens was pleased with his
team’s preparation for its season opener.

There’s more than fabric superiority in Gant. In addition, “needled-into the warp and woof of every Gant shirt” — there’s
flair-fit show — three vital inherents that make all the difference when a man wears a Gant. We chose Gant
because they take shirt making seriously. They're hard to please (like we are) when it comes to fit of collar,
its roll, its profile—how much it shows above the suit collar. They’re fastidious about the way the body of the
shirt drapes and folds. All must integrate to achieve that viable ingredient which gives comfort and aplomb. In substance, Gant
shirts are keyed to the discerning tastes of well-groomed men who appreciate quality. These men are our customers, Rush Wilson,
Ltd. Davidson, N. C. Greenville, S. C.
