VOL. LVI

Power Failure Darkens Frolics; Attendance Off

“Wires will wear out” was the way Grover Meetze summarized the power failure which occurred about 5 a.m. Saturday morning during Spring Frolics. Meetze, director of the physical plant, said that the break occurred behind Belk dorm in an unshielded line about 12 years old. He said that the voltage is higher now than it was then, and that due to electrical charges, the insulation broke down and shorted out the line. This was “not uncommon,” Meetze said, and that the college is in the process of replacing older unshielded lines with the shielded type.

Other than the power failure the consensus of opinion was that Frolics was a success. Speaking of the power failure, Mrs. Peter Nicholls, dormitory supervisor, said that she was wondering what the next disaster was going to be, but that they managed well with candles. Mrs. Nicholls said that things “went quite well” and that the general decorum was good. “Students and dates were in better control of themselves.” She said that Frolics attendance was smaller than usual.

C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, reported that attendance for the concerts by The Association and Dave Brubeck was good. Smith said the Union this year had “found that a lot of people are interested in programs on campus if they are novel, and top notch.” Asked about rumors that The Association had mentioned Davidson students’ bad reputation as an audience, Smith said that this was untrue. “They made no comment about our reputation.” He said that they were only apprehensive about Davidson's relationship.

Students To Form SSOC Organization

A chapter of the Southern Student Organizing Committee, a student action group, is currently being formed at Davidson. “This organization is made up of southern students working to change the South,” Frank Goldsmith, acting chairman of the group, said. The student group at Davidson is made up of primarily Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP) leadership.

“There is a bunch of pseudo-radicals on this campus and this is a chance to get them together,” Jordie Lang explained. “We can work with STEP on civil rights, voter registration and community organization.” According to the constitution of SSOC, it is “an association of young, concerned Southerners dedicated to social change.” Goldsmith said that “we need something more than sporadic letters to THE DAVIDSONIAN. We can make a concerted effort toward building the ‘New South’.”

An advantage cited to affiliating with SSOC was the access to professional help. Plans are being made for delegates to attend a membership conference May 5-7 in Buckeye Cove, N.C. This will be the first SSOC chapter chartered in North Carolina. The organization was founded at Vanderbilt, and it is supported largely by gifts from foundations.

It is to stimulate student participation toward active education and communication of these issues. SSOC calls for an integrated society, an end to poverty, “meaningful dialogue” in politics, easing of Cold War tensions and “emphasis on peace,” and “an end to man’s inhumanity to man.” Members of the organizing group participated in a union demonstration recently which was coordinated by SSOC.

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1967

SPRING FROLICS AFTERMATH

When the ROTC Department joined forces with local Cub and Boy Scouts this week to clean up following Spring Frolics, the result was a sizable trash can full of empty beer cans. Most of the debris they collected along the access road between Davidson and NC 21.

Being an all-male school, rates went up for Frolics because of an increase in the salaries of the ladies and janitors employed according to Mrs. Nicholls. Stating that expenses are the same even if “we don’t fill up,” she said that she could meet expenses for Frolics, though money was lost at Mid Winters.

Open End Hosts 4 FPC Students

Four students from Florida Presbyterian College will discuss the differences between Davidson and Florida Presbyterian at Open End tonight at 10 in the Morrison Room. The students are here on a Student Council exchange program approved by the council last spring. The program was handled by Mike Powell until Mike May took charge a few weeks ago. Tentative plans call for several Davidson students to visit Florida Presbyterian within a couple of weeks. The Florida Presbyterian students are staying with Davidson students in the dormitories.

Faculty, Students Listen

Students got a chance to listen in on faculty discussion on proposals for an honors college and a non-Western studies program at an open faculty meeting Monday. Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, chairman of the Blue Sky Committee, which has been working on curriculum changes, presented the committee's two proposals which were discussed.

The first proposal was for the establishment of an honors college. It was estimated that the college would be comprised of 35-60 students and between four and six faculty members. Students with a high degree of what Johnston called “intellectual ability and emotional maturity” would be selected to participate in the program. They would participate on a part-time or full-time basis, according to their needs and abilities. Under the direction of the professors, they would pursue independent study. The report said, and Johnston reiterated, that there would be “no dishonor” associated with leaving the program at the end of a year or a semester if it would be in the best interests of the student. Participating students would be “relieved of all normal academic requirements.” The report stated that the purpose of the proposal was to “challenge our best students and to attract top-flight students” to the college.

Johnston said that the honors college proposal was based on the belief that “each year there is a handful of students whose needs go beyond our present program.” He added that there are “different requirements for different students. This program will be very flexible — tailored to the needs of the individual student.” Johnston also stated that “one fourth or one-third or one-sixth or all” of a student's work could be in honors, depending on his “needs, ability and motivation.” The report recommended rotation of service for the faculty to assure greater faculty participation.

The second proposal dealt with the establishment of a program of non-Western studies. Johnston said, “Some expo (See JOHNSTON, Page Six)

TOWARD AN HONORS COLLEGE?
Dr. Charles Ratliff (R) Holds Forth At Meeting

DAVIDSONIAN REPORT EXAMINES FESTIVAL (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

Faculty Meeting Airs Curriculum Proposals
(Staff Photos by Olson)

Student Activity In Blue Sky Considered To Be Successful
By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

Student participation in Blue Sky subcommittees has been very active and proved quite successful, according to several of those students who served on such subcommittees. In talking with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week, they stressed that the faculty members became acquainted with student ideas which they would not have been introduced to had the committees been composed of faculty members alone. “It's been very effective in bringing the will of the students to the faculty,” explained Bobby Lane, who is a member of the Student Life Subcommittee as well as one of the student members of the Blue Sky Committee itself.

“We each brought to the committee something from our fields that was not already there,” commented Cary White, whose committee investigated the area of individual study and special programs. Then those same students often found themselves responsible for writing the final report on his particular aspect of the topic being investigated by their subcommittees. “We investigated the use of TV systems for education, and I wrote the entire section on the role of computers in liberal arts curriculum,” commented George Shaw of the Special Teaching Devices Subcommittee. “Each member of the committee made his own report, so each person on the committee carried equal weight as far as the final report was concerned,” summarized White.

Most students found a great deal of freedom in the subcommittees and no evidence of tension or antagonism across student-faculty lines. “We've been given a complete-

Dr. Ostwalt Appointed Assistant To Johnston

Jay Harold Ostwalt, Professor of Education and Psychology, has been named Associate Dean of the Faculty, THE DAVIDSONIAN learned this week. The position is a new one suggested as the result of the self-study conducted recently by the college.aspect of the general topic. “Bill Norfleet was allowed to write the entire section on the J. H. OSTWALT ODK Taps 12 New Members

Twelve students and three faculty members were tapped this morning for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership fraternity. The fraternity recognizes eminence in five phases of campus life: scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications and forensic, dramatics, music and other cultural activities.

Bobby Lane, a junior from New Orleans, La., was the first tapped. A former basketball player, Lane was one of the two students selected by the faculty as a member of the Blue Sky Curriculum Committee. John Gresham, a senior from Jacksonville, Fla., served last year as vice president of the student body, Student Council member this year, and was elected last fall for membership in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.

Chairman of the International Relations Club and a Dana Scholar, George Brown is a senior majoring in political science. He was selected most valuable player on the Davidson soccer team. A senior from Scottsville, Va., Don Carroll served this year as Honor Court Defense adviser and director of the YMCA freshman camp. Carroll is also a member of Who's Who.

Steve Humphrey, a junior from Columbia, S. C., has served two years on the Honor Court and is Great Issues Chairman for the YMCA. Gus Cochran, newly-elected President of the Interfraternity Council, is a junior from Athens, Ga. He is a McConnell Scholar and a member of Phi Eta Sigma. President of Phi Eta Sigma and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Chris Hawk is a senior from Charleston, S. C. Hawk was also vice president of the College Union and business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Dullan Fite, president of Phi Gamma Delta, is a senior from Muskogee, Okla. He was also a member of the Social Council. The newly-elected editor of the Quips and Cranks, Kirk Reed is a member of the Male Chorus, Phi Eta Sigma, and Phi Beta Kappa. Ron Hunt, a junior from Boone, N. C., is recorder for the Honor Court and a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Not present at the tapping were Sam Hatcher and Jane Bailey. Hatcher, a junior from Columbus, Ga., is a member of the tennis team. Bailey, a senior, was associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

The faculty members tapped were Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, and head football Coach Homer Smith. Cumming is the Virginia Lasater Irving Professor of English. He graduated from Davidson in 1921. Ostwalt is an associate professor of education and psychology. He was named this week to fill the new position of associate dean of the faculty. Smith is a cum laude graduate of Princeton. He holds two Princeton and one Ivy League football records.

VAN ALSTYNE ‘Family Analogy Silly’

Using the analogy of a family, Dr. William van Alstyne, Omicron Delta Kappa chapel speaker, discussed the relationship of college and students this morning. Speaking prior to the tapping at Alstyne, professor of law at Duke, centered his talk around one model of college-student relationships. He used the family for his model, citing the college as a ‘third parent.” He then proceeded to break down the analogy.

If this analogy is accepted, according to van Alstyne, then the college is entitled to certain authority over the students. Speaking of this relationship, he said, “Most students would find themselves in a bad position when trying to argue against college regulations." He went on to say, “Families work best in a feeling of mutual trust... in a sense of pride and a feeling of expectations.” He added that colleges must also cause this feeling.

Among the reasons he listed for the failure of the model was the point that a parent disciplines with “emotional investments and assessments of the child's best interest,” while colleges are driven by competition and conflicting interests. The major conflict of interests, according to van Alstyne, is the fear of loss of public support and financial aid. Pointing to the “styles of impersonality” in large universities, he called the family analogy absurd.

The Southern Association of Colleges and Universities is designed as a support position for the dean of the faculty. According to Ostwalt, the position is part of the new administrative organization and was established to help the dean of the faculty and to free him from the more detailed administrative work. The new position, according to Ostwalt, would remove a large amount of his teaching responsibility. However, he emphasized that he would still teach at least one class, possibly more, until the administration and teaching set-up is reorganized.

Commenting on the position, Ostwalt said, “It has some real possibilities and I'm looking forward to it, but because it is so new, we'll just have to work out many areas of procedure and operation.” Ostwalt is a graduate of Davidson, Class of ‘35. He received his Master's Degree from Duke University in 1937 and returned to Duke for his doctorate in 1952. Ostwalt is a member of the American Psychological Association, the National Society for the Study of Education, and Kappa Delta Pi Professional Education Society. He is married to the former Adeline Hill of Jackson, Mississippi.

The committee meetings,” said Jim Rostan. “They've encouraged us to submit our ideas.” Rostan's committee studied credits, evaluations and graduate school admissions. “We were allowed to say anything we wanted in the committee bull sessions,” Shaw added. “There was no feeling of distinction between student and faculty members.” Subcommittee members discovered that often faculty members were better able to discuss the topics under consideration than were students. “The faculty knew a great deal more on the subject as they had done a great deal of research and reading that we did not have time to do,” reported Ken Scott of the Non-Western Studies Subcommittee. Frank Fleming found that this did not result in a decrease of student influence in his committee which reviewed secondary school curricula. “While I consider myself to have contributed less than the two faculty members, I felt they were more attentive and gave more consideration to my views than I expected,” he said.

Scott said he hoped the participation of students on the subcommittees would help to dispel the image of an apathetic student body. Rostan commented that he was very satisfied with the student participation on his committee. “I feel student participation will make a meaningful part of the whole report,” he said. “The reaction I've had is that the faculty members have been very impressed with the students.” Lane concluded, “I'm hopeful that this experience will encourage the faculty to increase student participation in college affairs.”

Green Set To Appear As Reynolds Lecturer

Novelist and poet Paul Green will talk in Hodson Hall Tuesday at 8:15 as the second Reynolds Lecture speaker. Green is also a well-known playwright, novelist, poet, writer, essayist, teacher, and screen scenarist. Green, a native of North Carolina, grew up near Lillington where he worked as a common laborer on his father’s farm. He attended UNC-CH and studied dramatic art under Professor Frederick H. Koch of the Carolina Playmakers. He taught philosophy and dramatic arts, but turned to writing as a career.

Green has published two volumes of one-act plays for the Negro theatre. He won the Pulitzer Prize for his play In Abraham's Bosom. He has written many plays for New York production including: No ‘Count Boy, Unto Such Glory, The Field God and Roll Sweet Chariot. The Lost Colony by Mr. Green was the first of the outdoor symphonic dramas which have spread a movement in the nation. Mr. Green's latest works are Cross and Swords and Texas. He has published several volumes of poems, essays, and short stories. He is at present working on a novel.