Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1967

Athletics Again

Two current developments have again pointed up the dissatisfaction existing within the college community with the existing situation in the athletic picture at Davidson. Most obvious, of course, is the letter appearing elsewhere on this page signed by 20 upperclass students who want an end to the practice of subsidizing athletics through scholarships.

A stock retort to criticisms of professional athletics on campus is that “the student body is in favor of it.” Scattered protesters are passed off as disgruntled radicals who don’t deserve to be heard. Never before have so many spoken at once. Campus readers will recognize the signers as more than the typical Davidson student, who is more involved with being admitted to graduate school or with weekend dating than with far-reaching issues of policy; all are mature and responsible upperclassmen who have contributed more than their share to bettering campus life in virtually every field, including athletics. Organizers of the letter were purposefully selective in their choice of signers; no effort was made to solicit names from the student body as a whole. The contributions the signers have made to the college and the respect they command in the student body qualify them to be listened to. In fact, it would be difficult for the trustees to ignore such a concerted protest on the part of student body leaders.

The second development bearing indirectly on the athletic question is the section of the proposed faculty constitution that puts the entire athletic program under the direct supervision of the faculty. Such a situation has previously existed in name only, despite the fact that the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges requires such a condition as a criterion for accreditation. No one has ever seriously argued that the faculty, through its committee on athletics, does in fact maintain final control over athletic policies.

The overwhelming faculty opposition to continued subsidization of professional athletics is no secret; last spring more than 80 percent of the faculty asked the trustees to adopt all the recommendations dealing with athletics of last year’s Visiting Committee from the Southern Association, calling for, among other things, a completely non-subsidized athletic program. If the trustees decline to go along with the faculty’s requests, they will be overtly manifesting what has existed all along — the lack of faculty control over athletics. Should the Southern Association desire to press the issue, a likely outcome may well be a loss of accreditation for the school.

A Letter Home

One of the most unfortunate aspects of war is the complete distortion it makes in men's outlooks. Witness the letter reprinted this week in The Charlotte Observer, written by an American soldier killed in Vietnam. “I can hold my head high to all people oppressed and guide them to know the same freedom we know,” the soldier wrote. “If we can stand and fight for freedom, then I think we have done the job God set down for us. It's up to every American to fight for the freedom we hold so dear. If we don’t the smells of free air could become dark and damp as in a prison cell.”

Patriotism is not the question here; or if it is, it’s a perverted variety, grown into a messianic chauvinism seeking to impose the American Way of Life on people of all the world, whether or not they want it. If the United States is determined to “guide them (all oppressed people) to the same freedom we know,” the soldier is right, as he says later in his letter, his little brothers and his older sister's children will have to fight, too. It is regrettable that the Army finds it necessary to indoctrinate its forces with such simple but false conceptions of what the U.S. is doing in Vietnam. Letters such as the one referred to serve to reemphasize the tragic aspects of U.S. involvement in Southeast Asia; neither the soldier’s courage nor the sincerity of his motives can be denied. For him to have died for a politically contrived debacle is sickening.

In Defense Of Journalism

A minor storm has erupted over THE DAVIDSONIAN’s refusal to print this week the complete platforms of candidates for Social Council chairman and College Union president. A fear of being misunderstood prompts us to offer a defense of an action which should need no defense.

No one would argue the responsibility of the campus newspaper to vigorously strive to keep the significant events of the college community before its readers. But at the same time, the campus paper must be more than a bulletin board; the sheer volume of material, all of it worthy to some extent of receiving exposure to the community, precludes THE DAVIDSONIAN’s indiscriminately publishing all items of local interest.

One of the responsibilities of a journalist is to use his discretion in deciding what news to publish and how to present it. The idea of the impartial newspaper is a myth that should be banished forever. It has been said that there is nothing wrong with a biased editor; what should be feared is his refusing to make his biases clear, thereby keeping his readers in the dark as to what choices have been made in the writing of the news.

The backbone of any newspaper is the news story, in which the writer makes definite choices as to what aspects of a particular situation are significant and which are not and therefore not deserving mention. Very rarely has THE DAVIDSONIAN made use of the device of reprinting documents in toto, save in unusually important events, e.g., the fraternity evaluations of March 1965. No attempt is made to reproduce chapel speeches verbatim; rather, the reporter is given the task of discerning the essential aspects of the speech, to be reported in the newspaper. The platforms of the candidates for student body offices, including the student body president, Honor Court and class offices have never been reprinted: And, as is fairly obvious, neither are those of candidates for the Social Council and College Union posts. Instead, we have given our reporter the task of singling out the significant aspects to be reported, much as we did this week with the proposed faculty constitution, a story of much more ultimate significance. In doing so, we have discharged our duty as an organ for not merely reporting the news, but also for interpreting it.

Book Muddle

Problems of location and size of one sort or another have plagued Davidson since its inception — there’s nothing new about that. But one problem has at least recently become more noticeable, if not more acute. The bookstore simply does not have the stock necessary for Davidson’s situation.

One might think it less desirable for a school of Davidson's size and location to have a wide selection of paperbacks than a large university book market. Quite the contrary: most universities, with student bodies numbering in the thousands, and located in metropolitan centers, furnish a demand adequate to assure a constant supply of choice books. Davidson, on the other hand, obviously is handicapped by its small student body. Consequently, a well-stocked bookstore could scarcely make a profit here.

And there’s the rub. For the administration has decreed that P. Nicholls’ literary center of capitalism be completely self-supporting. The bookstore is free to make all the money it wants and to buy as many new books as it can afford. But there is no real subsidization forthcoming. A promising flicker has appeared. Several thousand dollars have been allocated to a group of students to use for adding to the stock of the bookstore. But there is a real and pressing need for such a grant to be made permanent, so that the bookstore can count on a regularly increasing stock.

The problem lies in one’s conception of the role of a bookstore in the life of the college. As is the case in athletics, it appears that the administration is more interested in the financial than the educational benefit to be derived. Students here simply need a wider range of books than are currently available.

STEPUNIN A ‘PURVEYOR OF DARKNESS’

Russian’s Visit Labeled ‘Blatant Abuse’

(ED. NOTE: The following open letter to the Davidson student body is reprinted from the Florence (S.C.) Times as a service to the student body, since few students are readers of the Times).

Dear American Students at a Presbyterian Church-sponsored College:

I read with interest that you have been host to a Soviet official from the Russian Embassy. This saddens me. Oh, please, I know all the dusty clichés about freedom of speech. You are young but not too young to learn now the difference between freedom and abuse.

“You can't tell whether they come for BA, LSD or CIA.”

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Financial Commitment For Athletics Too Great

Dear Editor:

The sports page of THE DAVIDSONIAN last week contained an interview with Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics, regarding an increase in the number of athletic scholarships. In the remarks attributed to him, Dr. Scott is quoted as saying that “athletic scholarship funds are a constant percentage of the Living Endowment.” That remark is, at best, half true — and we feel that the warped impression left by its incompleteness must be corrected.

The facts are these: On the basis of a crippling agreement made with the Wildcat Club in 1956, each year 4 percent of the Living Endowment of the second preceding fiscal year is set aside for athletic scholarships. This amount is divided by $1195, cost of a full scholarship in 1956, to determine the number of scholarships to be available. That number is then multiplied by the cost of a current full scholarship to determine the amount of money available. Figures for this year: 61.5 scholarships, at an average

‘Skin Of Our Teeth’

A Review By TED WINTER

Is ‘Something Special’

Thornton Wilder and his Magic Flying Play. The Skin of Our Teeth is a rather special play. The All-American History of the World, the Rise and Fall and All the Ups and Downs of the Human Race.tell the future. Nothing easier. It is also a play that must be Everybody's future is in their difficult to produce, but in turn face. Nothing easier. But who its toying with all the levels of can tell your past, —eh? Nobody.” illusion and reality in the theatre can overcome any flaws or diffi- And bearded Richardson Scho- culties in a production and put lar Mike Gwilym is the comic half of them to good use. The director, the self-conscious mo- unforgettable reality is that we dern artist. “I don’t suppose are humans watching humans it means anything. It's just a portraying a human's idea of kind of poetic effect.” Whatever That Means, and it is If there was not as much all enhanced by a small theatre laughter as there should have with an All-Davidson or All- Any- been during the first two acts, where cast. the Davidson audience is per- That makes every production haps to blame. There were of it something special, and Ru- plenty of long hard smiles, but pert Barber's The Skin Of Our there was too much empty space Teeth, Davidson 1967 this week in the theatre for an audience's was a joy to its audience and uninhibited laughter. It was one is certain, to all who worked Wilder himself who wrote: with him on it. “A play presupposes a crowd. The center of the play is The reasons for this go deeper Everyman, Adam, Noah, a New than (1) the economic necessity Jersey commuter, the All-Hu- for the support of the play and man family man Danny Thomas, (2) the fact that the tempera- George Antrobus. He was well ment of actors is proverbially played by John Bailey. The play and the community dependent on group attention. “It rests on the fact that (1) are fortunate to have Connie the pretense, the fiction, on the Welsh and Jane Crawley, who stage would fall to pieces and acted the eternal Wife and absurdity without the support ac- Lover, good old Maggie and Miss corded to it by a crowd, and (2) Sabina ‘‘Wow" Fairwether. Mrs. the excitement induced by pre- Welsh has often given us true tending a fragment of life is such drama here, and Mrs. Crawley that it partakes of ritual and has done wonderfully two major festival, and requires a crowd.” roles this year. And raves for Mrs. Crawley’s costuming! That part of the Davidson au- dience which saw The Skin of Man’s two types of problem Our Teeth knows now if it children, the Bad Seed and the didn’t already. And perhaps soon Gifted Child (‘We've always had the whole community will learn two children, though it hasn't al- how rewarding it can be to make ways been the same two’) were a little time three times a year convincingly done by Neal Mar- for its theatre. cost of $1,910, come to a total of $117,465—not 34, but 54 per cent of the Living Endowment ($216,000). Moreover, assuming that both the Living Endowment and tuition costs will further increase, so will this percent- age. The projected figure for 1975-76 is 81 per cent. (Self- Study Report, pp. 134-135). Technically, only the 34 per cent actually comes from the Living Endowment in any year: the discrepancies are made up from tuition alloca- tions, according to the Self- Study. Our objections go far beyond the insufficiency of financial explanations, though, like the Faculty, we are very inter- ested in learning exactly how much of the College’s funds are being committed to our in- tercollegiate athletic program. But the commitment is not just one of funds: it impedes physical education and intra- mural programs; it involves a double standard in the award- ing of scholarships; its contri- bution to the total education- al purpose of the College is minimal—indeed, the burdens on those who do participate are so great as to impede their own education. Further, there are many who are convinced that Davidson's reputation as an educational institution has suffered be- cause of its unbalanced pub- licity. Finally, it is not our inten- tion to suggest any criticism of students involved in our sub- sidized program, nor do we imply that a strong athletic program is out of place in a good college. Further, we are aware that the operation of such subsidized athletics is en- tirely out of line with the ed- ucational purposes of the Col- lege. KEM ANDERSON BILL ANDREWS JOHN BAILEY DON CARROLL CECIL CLIFTON BOB DUGGER ED DWELLE TOM EARNHARDT SAM HATCHER STEVE HUMPHREY HERB JACKSON BOBBY LANE CHUCK MATTHEWS WILL NORMAN MIKE POWELL JULIAN PROSSER MARVIN SPARROW TOM THEL CHARLES VICK BILL WATSON Davidson College To my way of thinking, to let a bolshevic (sic) talk on your campus when Americans are dying in opposition to what he stands for is blatant abuse. If you could exhume Hitler would you let him tell you how rational was the Jewish ex- termination? Would he have his rights? What about a gang- ster? Do you really have no conception of where freedom stops and treachery begins? What could this man tell you to explain the Berlin Wall where people die every month in a desperate effort to es- cape? What could he tell you that you don't already know by thinking on the slaughter of the Hungarians who wanted to get from under the Red heel? How could you listen to this man who represents a God- less, slave state, while your country is in a death struggle to preserve freedom. You are young, but not too young to know that millions of dollars have been spent, many lives lost, many brilliant minds taxed to make you a part of the greatest nation on earth. The future belongs to you. You are the future. If you fall un- der the spell of evil chicanery, if you let yourselves be talked out of a matchless heritage, if you fall into a trap and are chained, then the ‘Last, best hope of earth’ goes down with you. Why should this purveyor of darkness be hosted by Church and Country? Is there one among you who can think for himself and dare to speak out. Think hard and speak clearly, for a belea- guered (sic) world is listening —behind the iron curtain, the bamboo curtain, the Berlin wall — as well as those who cling to freedom. The world listens. ISOBEL SMITH LAWTON Publisher, Florence Times Fools’ Name By EDWARD DWELLE Associate Editor And Fools’ Faces ft: Intellectual Atmosphere? THE SELF-STUDY REPORT made by the faculty for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools should be required reading for all students at David- son: It would destroy much of our assumed superiority and smugness and, hopefully, promote student interest and concern in the present and future welfare of the institution. We must realize that our personal educa- tional reputation is directly dependent upon the edu- cational reputation of the college; we cannot escape being “products” of this institution. Of particular interest is the section entitled ‘Intel- lectual Atmosphere”; the report both commends and criticizes the prevailing intellectual atmosphere and makes recommendations for improving it. But the re- port contains some glaring omissions, in my opinion. In dealing with extra-curricular intellectual activities, the report states that, “probably the most valuable of these (extra-curricular intellectual experiences) are the sev- eral strong programs of visiting lecturers, sponsored by various groups on the campus. It goes on to cite three of these programs as most noteworthy: Artist Series, Otts Lectures, and Reynolds Lectures. In further comment, the report ex- plains that the Otts Lectures suffer from being a not regularly-scheduled activity, limited in permitted topic selection, and poorly scheduled. It also explains that the Reynolds Lectures have suffered from having too much concentration in limited academic areas and that, perhaps, visiting lecturers are poorly attended because they follow one another so closely. Now, I agree with all of these comments, but there are more to be made: It is almost impossible to do any- thing about the Otts Lectures. The irregular flow of income prevents having them regularly and the topic limitation is legally sealed. But they could be sched- uled more effectively. The Reynolds Lectures do not suffer from these first two ills, but they suffer serious- ly from lack of proper scheduling. And I lay the blame for this lack of planning and foresight at the feet of the Dean of the Faculty. It is his responsibility to secure and schedule these lectures, yet year after year they are put off. We miss many prominent foreign scholars because we have wait- ed too late to contact them. And when lectures are scheduled, it is usually during that very busy portion of late spring when lack of time—not of interest—pre- vents many students from attending. If the Dean is too busy to handle this responsibility properly, then he should relinquish it—perhaps to the Chaplain’s Office —so that these lectures can truly benefit a majority of students. There are similar problems with the Artist Se- ries, particularly this year. There were no Artist Series events during the first semester, and now, several are being crowded into this semester. But, more particu- larly, we really do not have any substantial administra- tive support for the arts at Davidson. I understand that a meager five thousand dollars a year is budgeted for the Artist Series, yet we do not understand why stu- dents do not attend these events very well. And we purport to be a liberal arts college with an exciting intellectual (and by implication, cultural) atmosphere! In describing awards to students, the report makes some very critical comments on certain academic de- partments and programs, including Physics, Biology, History, English, Psychology, and Pre-Med. But the most telling criticism deals with the intellectual atmos- phere on the campus: “The quality of the dialogue that pervades the campus seems to be embarrassingly lack- ing.” And the report holds the faculty and, especially, the administration responsible for the poor quality of the dialogue! But I want to go a step further: I hold the Dean of the Faculty responsible for the prevailing quality of the intellectual atmosphere on the campus, and I hold him responsible for that atmosphere being below par if it is. Obviously, I think that the quality of the intel- lectual atmosphere at Davidson is not what it should be. Why is the Dean responsible? Because I think that at Davidson, it is his responsibility to be the leader of the intellectual activities of the campus; by leading, I mean that he must provide the direction, uphold the quality, and impose the control for this intellectual at- mosphere. If he does not, no one else will, and chaos will prevail. Hopefully, the Dean is providing this leadership in and through his Blue Sky Committee; but the Blue Sky Committee is not enough, for we must take care of the present as well as the future, and the Committee cannot and must not handle every facet of school life, or Davidson will sink deeper into the mire. We can no longer ignore the present; we must act now.