Page Six October 20, 1937

Report On Union Points Out Need For Improvement
By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

A report on the College Union, presented to the Board of Trustees last week, suggested improvements for the Union programs
and facilities. The report was compiled by the Board of the College Union on the basis of a student survey.
According to Ed Embree, vice president of the College Union Board, the survey that was the basis for the report
was completed last spring by approximately 75-80 randomly selected students from all classes.

“The report is the first comprehensive statistical measure of student attitudes concerning the Union and should prove valuable in helping
the Board evaluate its present programs as well as plan for the future,” stated Embree. Embree said that the goal
of the Board is a Union that would serve the entire student body rather than just the Independents and the
freshmen.

The students who were surveyed gave many valuable suggestions for improvement. They generally agreed that the Union is trying hard,
but about 80 percent of them felt that it “needs to be improved greatly.” Some suggestions for improvement included the
adding of kitchenettes, a card room, a large banquet room, and several small lounges. The main reason for the poor
service in the snack bar is the lack of space, according to Embree. The most common remedy suggested by students
was the building of a separate snack bar area which would provide better service and a wider selection of foods.
Several students suggested a “Union Rathskeller which would serve short order dishes, beer, wine and possibly provide some type of
informal entertainment.”

The survey also dealt with the students’ evaluation of the present programs sponsored by the Union. Most of the students
thought that the Union provides good entertainment, even though the program is less than adequate. Complaints were raised about the
lack of publicity given its programs. The report was presented to several trustees last Friday and will be given to
some members of the faculty next week for their evaluation and suggestions.

The Davidsonian

BEHIND THE BAMBOO CURTAIN

An eyewitness report of life in Red China will be presented in a full-length color movie next Friday night at
8 in the Morrison Room of the College Union. The film, which will be narrated by the noted journalist and
explorer who photographed it, Jens Bjerre, includes an inside look at Red China’s cultural revolution and political turmoil. (Photo By
National Lecture Bureau).

Runyan Hits Religion Of Escape, Terms Hope Vital To Existence
By RICH COWART
Staff Writer

“Man is that creature who hopes,” said Dr. Theodore Runyan, professor of theology at Emory University, in chapel Thursday. “Without
hope we would cease to exist.” Runyan pointed out the necessity of including an element of hope in religion. “Religion
has traditionally been merely a glorification of the status quo,” he said, “characterized by its ability to sprinkle holy water
on existing institutions.” But by concentrating on the past, and on a preservation of the present, a religion comes to
be simply an escape from the problems of life, and not an answer to them. Christianity, Runyan said, has turned
from its original outlook and has become “just another status quo religion,” offering a refuge from the problems facing our
society, but not helping to end these problems.

Clark’s Busts And Nude Adorn Stowe Galleries

ED. NOTE: This is a review of Dr. Thomas F. Clark’s sculpture exhibit presented in the Stowe Galleries at the
Cunningham Fine Arts Center.
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Dr. Thomas F. Clark's sculpture exhibit in Stowe Galleries at the Cunningham Fine Arts Center features a variety of busts
in bronze, terra cotta, and plaster. Clark, associate professor of Bible and Religion, also has displayed two figures, a female
nude and one entitled “The Little Pope.” The latter, one of his earliest works on exhibit, is a rather comic
figure with an enormous hooked nose.

The collection spans four years, from 1963 to 1967. There are three busts of Bob Young, a former student at
Davidson. The first bust was done in 1964 and the other two in the next two years. Each progressively illustrates
the maturing of Clark's art. The first head, done in 1963, lacks the sensitivity of feature found in some of
the later works, as do the other three models from that year.

CLARK AND A CREATION
(Staff Photo By Olson)

Bill Rikard, Class of ‘67, was the subject. The grace and expression found in Female Figure and The Good Shepherd,
both completed this year, are missing, though the head is technically proficient.

Staff
Associate Editors: BILL ANDREWS, HEYWARD CARTER, KERN PARKER, GEOFF SEAMANS, BILL SEIGLER, BOB TRAVERS
Managing Editors: ED EMBREE, ROBBIE HOOKER
Assistant Managing Editors: FRANK ANDERSON, ROBERT PYEATT
Sports Editor: BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editors: DON SEWELL, DANNY WHITE
Contributors this week: BOB DUNHAM, CHARLES McEWEN, BILL OLSON, DAVID WEEMS, BURKY BELSER, NAT HEYWARD, CULLUM ROGERS, MIKE SIGMAN, MIKE
JOHNSON, JACK WELLMAN, JOHN VISER, Glenn Mauney, John Puncak, Mark Wingate, Dick Anderson, Ben Garrott, Bill Fine, Jabo Bolinger, Ashley
Hines, Jim Hudson, Richard Cowart, Steve Callender, Dan Myatt, Bobby Ambrose, Gary Fagg, John Williams, Paul Schneider, Bill Warren, Allen
Lewis, Jim Leo, Chuck Green, Rob Krehbiel, George Allen, Greg Scott, Danny Coltrane, Jim Gillespie, Paul Rowland, Bill Spencer, and
Jim Cruse.
Subscription rate: $6.00 per year ($6.50 if billed). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Runyan cited the accelerating rate of change in the present world, and a growing feeling of despair, especially among Negroes
and the poor, as the greatest problems with which we must contend. "The Alabama tenant farmer,” he said, “is part
of your future.” “The problems of society,” Runyan said, “cannot be solved by the building of stainless steel cities.” He
said he feels that today’s greatest social problem is the general feeling of despair which is overtaking our society. This
lack of hope stems from the...uncertainty that people feel about the future, and about the place that individuals hold in
the future. Runyan referred to an experiment conducted with rats as an example of the necessity of hope. One group
of rats had been placed in a tank of water with no apparent way to escape. After 20 minutes they
quit swimming and sank. Another group, however, was given some possibility of escape, and, though the possibilities of escape were
made to disappear and then reappear, the rats swam for several hours before sinking. What is needed, Runyan said, is
a return to the “original thrust of Christianity: a message of hope, and a recognition of social responsibility. "The way
to face a situation of change,” he concluded, “is not to escape the change, but to rejoice in it knowing
that God is revealed in the direction history moves.”

Rhodes Cutoff Is Set

The deadline for 1987 Rhodes Scholarship applications is Oct. 5. Inquiries and applications in North Carolina for the 64-year-old scholarships,
which provide for study at Oxford University, England, should be sent to the state secretary, Edwin M. Yoder Jr., at
the Greensboro Daily News. Yoder said that candidates must be unmarried male citizens of the United States, between ages 18
and 29 at the time of application, with at least junior standing at a recognized degree-granting college or university. A
candidate may apply through his state of legal residence, or through the state in which he has attended at least
two years of college.

ARMY & NAVY STORE
170 North Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.
JACKETS, BLANKETS, AND BOOTS FOR WINTER
PHONE: 663-7081
Open ’til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Student Views Find Trustee Ears Open

Trustees made more direct use of student opinion in their meeting last week than they ever had before. Both trustees
and students said that they found the change beneficial. Seniors Rick Mildner and Gary Peklo presented the fraternity rush proposal
to the Trustee Committee on Campus and Social Life, and seniors Bobby Lane and Kirk Reed discussed religious life at
Davidson with the Religious Life and Community Church Committee. "I think the greatest value that came out of the meeting
was that the trustees confronted students,” said Lane. "I discovered that the trustees’ idea of what Davidson should be and
the students’ idea of what Davidson should be are different. I think our job was basically to provide them with
information. Some of them have been away from Davidson for several years, and they may have forgotten what it was
like. Besides, Davidson has changed a great deal over the past few years.”

“My idea of what the trustees were like was completely changed,” said Peklo. “I found them to be enthusiastic and
appreciative. They seemed to respect our ideas. What we said carried as much weight as the opinions voiced by the
faculty members who presented the faculty's viewpoint.” Mildner said: “I think it was beneficial to both sides. The students gained
new insights into the functions of the trustees, and the trustees found out how we, the students, felt about this
particular issue.” “I hope the dialogue between the trustees and the students will continue,” said Reed. “The trustees make decisions
that vastly affect the future of Davidson, and I feel that we should have a voice in those decisions.”

Teachers Assess Student Influence
By Collegiate Press Service

WASHINGTON — The nation's leading educators are beginning to accept the idea that students should be actively involved in the
decisions which affect their education. They are undecided, however, about just how far this involvement should be extended and are
worried about its effects on such practical matters as relations with trustees, legislators, the public, and the very education which
their institutions provide. Student involvement in making academic decisions was a frequent topic as some 1,700 administrators of colleges and
universities across the country gathered here this month for the 80th annual meeting of the American Council on Education (ACE).
And although most of the college presidents and other executives who participated in the program endorsed significant student participation in
the governing of academic institutions, there nevertheless seemed to be an undercurrent of fear of the student activist movement and
of the cries for student power. This fear and concern about the future was evident from the very start of
the conference when Dr. Samuel B. Gould, chancellor at the State University of New York, warned in his keynote address
that the “power of student activism cannot be minimized nor can its potential for creating and maintaining unrest be taken
lightly.” The students on the ACE program responded with calls for more student power and student rights. There were frequent
student criticisms of the present leadership in today's colleges and universities. Former University of Michigan student body president Edward N.
Robinson assailed the administrators for their views on student participation. Administrators “don't see the problems of student involvement beyond how
many students should be on a certain committee,” Robinson said, while the important decisions are generally made “by a small
group of presidents and vice presidents behind closed doors.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

If Mexico and Bermuda send you, we'll send you posters of Mexico and Bermuda. The diver of Acapulco. The torero
of Mexico. 3 for $1.50. The sleek racing craft of Bermuda. All three 30” x 40” posters are beautifully reproduced
in color. And they’re all yours for only $1.50. We think you'll like them so much, you'll want to go
to Mexico and Bermuda someday. And when you do, we hope you'll go on Eastern. So don’t just sit there
staring at four blank walls. Fill in the coupon below and send for your colorful posters now.

To: Eastern Airlines, Inc., Poster Offer, Box 4211, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10017
Please send me the Bermuda, Acapulco, and Mexico posters, for which I enclose a $1.50 money order or check (payable
to Eastern Air Lines, Inc. Poster Offer).

Name
Address
City
State
Zip Code

I would also be interested in receiving a Youth Fare Application.
