Page Four

Debating Team To Question Current Issues On Campus

Davidson Debate Club will present a series of debates on pass-fail courses, subsidized athletics, and compulsory ROTC in the Union on May 8, 11, and 17, debate coach Ray McMillin has announced. The debaters closed the regular tournament season April 20-22 at the New York University Washington Square Invitational Tournament.

Students Fletcher Hartsell and Robert Pyeatt represented Davidson, winning two rounds and losing four. They defeated LaSalle College and Wagner College, while losing to Manhattan, City College of New York, the University of Evansville, and St. John Fisher.

Commenting on the campus debates, McMillin said, “I expect them to stimulate student interest and help to resolve certain issues. These are serious efforts, not just exhibitions.”

On “Resolved: that Davidson College should institute a system of pass-fail courses,” Daniel Spencer and Tom Wheatley in the affirmative will oppose Mac Hobby and Pyeatt of the negative.

Hartsell and Pyeatt will represent the affirmative in “Resolved: that the subsidized athletic program at Davidson College should be discontinued.” Greg Haynes and Tom Rhodes will represent the negative.

Peter Leo and Spencer are to take the affirmative position on “Resolved: that the compulsory ROTC program at Davidson College should be discontinued.” Hobby and Wheatley will defend the status quo as negative.

The current issue debates will deal with the topics in depth and attempt to present facts, not only the opinions which have characterized discussion of these issues, McMillin said.

Meeting April 25, the debaters scheduled their annual banquet for May 10 in Charlotte.

(Staff Photos by Olson)

DAVIDSON PHILHARMONIC

The Wind Ensemble Makes Its Annual Spring Appearance Before The Student Body in Chapel Tuesday

Evaluations Stimulus

Chairman Bates Promises Will Rate Professors

The Student Council has distributed forms to faculty members asking them to participate in student course evaluations before final exams this semester. Participation in the program is completely voluntary and professors are asked to request the number of forms they will need.

The purpose of the evaluation is to serve as “a means of student-faculty communication that will provide professors a greater insight into their effectiveness and will provide students an opportunity to re-think their attitude toward school work,” according to the letter sent to professors by Student Council members Peter Hobbie and Bill Watson.

The purpose of distributing the forms before exams is to get more students to fill them out because they will not have the

Expansion and improvement have been promised for Stimulus next year by its new chairman Mike Bates.

“We consider this program appropriate for a liberal arts college,” stated Bates, who heads the faculty-student discussion program. “Many people feel that this is exactly the type of program that should be going on in a liberal arts college. The atmosphere and student-faculty relationship is different from that of the classroom because of the voluntary nature of the program,” he added.

A Stimulus group will consist of sixteen members with a student-faculty ratio of about two or three to one. This group will meet five or six times during the

and tapes. There will be two requirements for participation in the Stimulus program. First, the student must agree to attend all meetings, and second, he must have read the topic for discussion by the time of the meeting. Stimulus leaders feel that these requirements will greatly strengthen the program.

Chairman Bates foresees several minor problems which will have to be solved. First, supper will be included, at no expense to the student, for as many meetings as possible. However, Bates feels that the meals may prove a burden to the college or others providing the meals. Second, a good response is expected from both the faculty and students. However, in order to improve and expand the program, Bates feels that these students will have much to add to the Stimulus groups.

Each member of the student body has received a letter explaining the program and invitinghim to participate. Bring Your Clothes To Us So As To Freshen Up For The Weekend.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across From Gulf Station

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine

Students Give Blood In Annual ROTC Drive
College Sets New Record In Blood Drive Donations

By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

Donations spurted to a new record in the Red Cross blood drive here this week. “We had the biggest turnout for the blood drive in the past three years,” said Capt. Joe B. Crawley, head of the Davidson blood drive. The drive supplied the Red Cross with 262 pints of blood on April 24-25.

“In the fraternity competition, Kappa Alpha was first with 66.5% of the members donating. Sigma Phi Epsilon was second with 55% and Sigma Alpha Epsilon was third with 51%,” Crawley continued. There was also a large turnout among the Independents.

Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, head of the ROTC Department, emphasized that the Red Cross was responsible for the drive. “Although this drive was organized by the ROTC Department, it is a community affair, and the success or failure of the drive depends on community support.” Outlaw further added, “This blood is used for the community, so we do get benefits from it.” He cited several instances of people in Davidson receiving blood.

Crawley said he hoped the college would again win the plaque for the largest blood drive participation in North Carolina and northern South Carolina. He pointed to April 12-13 articles in The Dunn Record and The Dunn Dispatch of Dunn which said, “Many colleges actively support the Red Cross Blood Program and an award is made to the college that has the highest percentage participation. Davidson College has won this award three out of the last four years.”

The trophy would have become a permanent possession of the college if Davidson had won it for the third consecutive year last year. Mitchell College won the award last year. “We can win this year’s award if we can get as large a turnout next fall as we did this spring,” Crawley commented.

Monday—Friday
217 N. Tryon St.
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20% Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
375-9723
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

To maintain a good faculty-student ratio, the number of faculty participating will have to be a limiting factor to the number of Stimulus groups. At present, there are three Stimulus groups.

Renovation To Include New Campus Switchboard

As part of the renovation of Chambers Building, plans have been accepted for a new switchboard which will centralize all faculty and administration telephones. The switchboard and operator, which will be located in Chambers, will be ready for operation at the opening of classes in September.

Robert Currie, college treasurer and business manager, said that the college had reached the point when such an innovation was “economically feasible.” He also stated that the new setup would put a phone in every faculty office. Currie emphasized that the new switchboard would not involve dormitory or fraternity phones. He added that someday something would be worked out to facilitate better student communications.

Gurley’s ESSO
MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS
PHONE 892-9304

Robert W. Sweadbourg, Red Cross Blood Drive coordinator, listed the colleges participating in the program in order of percentage turnout: Davidson headed the list followed by Mitchell College, Lenoir Rhyne College, Wake Forest College, High Point College, Greensboro A. & T., and eight others.

Gas up for the weekend and play Tigerino and win like Mrs. Janice Hall, a $100 winner.

Checks are fashion in Haggar Imperials

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

See how Haggar has tailored these new checks in Dacron® polyester and worsted wool. That’s the beauty of Haggar Imperials: traditionally fine tailoring plus today’s most wanted look.
$16.00
Other Haggar Slacks including Permanent Press from 7.44
Solids, Checks, and Plaids

Charlotte Ristoranti
Our 55th Year

Pleasant Tasting Liquid For Upset Stomach
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Phone 892-2111
Open 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.
Your Neighborhood Drug Store
131 N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.

STEAKS — John Mack & Son
Mooresville