Page Six March 3, 1987 The Davidsonian

BORDERLINE ACCEPTANCES
Point System Favors Athletes, Alumni Sons
By ROBBIE HOOKER
News Editor

Athletes who would not be admitted to Davidson "in the normal process of events" are accepted each year, according to two members of the Admissions Committee. However, the committee members—Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White and Psychology Professor J. H. Ostwalt—were quick to point out that all athletes so admitted have been judged fully capable of academic success here.

Football and basketball players and sons of alumni are grouped by the committee in a "special consideration" category, White said. And although these applicants have been appraised as having sufficient academic potential, "we accept some that we ordinarily might not have."

Both White and Ostwalt stressed the initial academic specifications that must be met by any applicant before his application is studied further by the committee. "In evaluating any applicant, first, we try to determine what he's likely to achieve academically," White said. "If he does not pass that first test, we forget him."

"If we think he probably will be successful—last year we had at least 800 of these—then we evaluate other things. We look at what I call 'whatever-else-we-can-find-out-about-him,' character, integrity, personality—any specific contribution he may make."

The admissions committee uses a point system "to keep a certain amount of balance in the amount of special consideration given athletes," Ostwalt said. He also denied rumors that the point system works to admit athletes who are not academically competent. "This is not a surreptitious thing—there is nothing crooked about it. All it does is keep some balance in the number of athletes. The same thing would be used if we had enough of another kind of applicant, like, say, musicians."

White and another member of the committee, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, refused comment on the point system. White said, "There are a certain number of details, of course, but because they might be misunderstood they are better not discussed."

White termed the special consideration given athletes and sons of alumni...

Aiken, Jennings Win
B. A. Aiken and David Jennings, both juniors, were the winners in last Monday's election by the student body for Union Board president and Social Council chairman.

Aiken defeated Andy Clay in the Union race by a vote of 343-272. A Spanish major from Sanford, Fla., Aiken is a Sigma Alpha Epsilon social affiliate and has served on the Union Board during his sophomore and junior years.

Jennings won over Westray Battle 336-269 to be elected Social Council chairman. A history major from Greenville, S.C., and a member of Alpha Tau Omega, Jennings has served on the Social Council since its formation.

In a joint statement, Aiken and Jennings said, "Because the functions of the Social Council and the College Union overlap at so many points, we will work together to create a more active and unified campus social program."

ALUMNUS RETURNS
Dr. Raymond Lynch, a Davidson graduate, returned to campus Tuesday to play oboe with the Memphis State Woodwind Quintet at a concert in Hodson Hall. Lynch is now a member of the Memphis State faculty as well as a participant in the musical group. Pictured with him is Paul Eahear! playing flute. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Teachers Program Set For Summer
An unusual summer liberal arts program for public school teachers will be offered this year at Davidson College, it has been announced by Dr. William B. Hight, Jr., student counseling director and director of the program. Sponsored jointly by Davidson College and the N.C. Department of Public Instruction, the two three-week sessions are planned in various subject matter fields, and will offer certification renewal credit to the teachers.

Editorial Stand Taken
Boyle

THE DAVIDSONIAN is more than a polling service, more than a bulletin board. Its function of providing the campus with complete and fair news coverage must be strengthened, but its potential role as a means of improving the college and broadening the worldly perspective of the student body must not be short-changed.

If THE DAVIDSONIAN is not just a bulletin board, neither is it a polling service. My differences with the present editor on his stands on topics such as athletic subsidization were based on my belief that they were wrong, not because they did not express any supposed mood of the student body. When the consensus of student opinion is reported, it should be done on the news pages as the objective thing as it is. Editorial positions must be taken not on the basis of conformity, but on that of an informed attempt at proposing the best possible alternative.

At the same time, the expression of what other informed individuals believe must be encouraged through the use of regular columnists and the type of column which is exemplified by the present Quo Vadis feature.

A local sportscaster had a burst of unusual insight recently in pointing out that newspaper editors want to improve the world. That is exactly what I want to do, but I want to start right now with the part that I know and that can be affected by student efforts. The same sportscaster went on to characterize college journalists as sophomores. The students who cooperated with me in the smoothly-operated news side of this past year's DAVIDSONIAN can attest to the fact that I am no sophomore in technical proficiency as a writer or as a manager. Now I want the chance to demonstrate that an editorial desire for improvement is not just a sophomoric ideal.

DAVIDSONIAN Staff
Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
GUNNAR MAGNUS
NAT HEYWARD

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Marvin Ellison, Brodie Brown, Danny Coltrane, Gary Sigmon, Joe Jones, Carter Fussell, Bob Dunham, John Rowe, Bob Buchanon, Allen Lewis, Mike Bates, Jim Cooley, Robert Pyeatt, Tom Rhodes, John Mack, Don Sewell, Danny White, George Cretekos, Lewis Lavine, Franklin Anderson, Marvin Bethune, Kurt Corriher and John Williams.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

Cook

The strength of a newspaper lies in the quality of its reporting and in the journalistic toleration offered to all opinions regardless of whether they concur with the announced editorial policy of the newspaper. A primary goal of THE DAVIDSONIAN will be to reflect the prevailing views on campus from students, administration and faculty. THE DAVIDSONIAN will be synonymous with "The News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body," rather than always being a lonely voice crying out from the editorial page.

Objectivity will be the major aim of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Guest editorials will give students and other interested individuals the opportunity to contribute on subjects important to them. Letters to the editor are a vital part of a newspaper, and editorial policies will be formed to encourage reader response, both positive and negative.

Despite the relatively small size of the student body, Davidson needs factual reporting of campus events. THE DAVIDSONIAN will feature interpretative reporting of events which every student should understand. These reports will be concise, featuring the important subjects, without insinuations from headlines or reporter.

Other basic aims of next year's DAVIDSONIAN include a simplification of style in order to present more news through utilization of excess white space, and integration of departments so that important events will receive the notice they deserve, regardless of the nature of the events, be it sports, feature or general news.

With proper administration and toleration of all views, THE DAVIDSONIAN can be the vital campus element that it should be. With the experience I have had in both news and sports, plus the extensive professional experience I received during two summers, I feel I can print a newspaper that students will...“entirely right and appropriate.” “As for the sons of alumni, their families have been associated with Davidson for a good many years and we have an obligation to them. Concerning the athletes, there are several programs which this college is sponsoring that involve a good bit of the college’s money. We think it appropriate that potential contributors to these programs be given special consideration.”

The general policy and procedures of the six-man admissions committee are reevaluated each fall, White said. The other three members are English Professor Frank Bliss, Director of Student Counseling W. B. Hight, and Math Professor J. B. Stroud. He also stressed the committee's “complete control” of who is accepted. “We have control, regardless of who the guy is, who his parents are, how tall he is, how far he can throw a football. Not a single year has passed that we haven't told both coaches that we would not accept one of their prospects, sometimes even before the application is made.”

Sunday Night Open House
The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Minter
Marrotte

Campaign Speeches Set For Wednesday
The campaign speeches of student body president candidates will be given in chapel Wednesday. Chapel on Monday will feature two Peace Corps representatives, Linda Thomas and Larry Omo. Miss Thomas, a native of Black Mountain, N. C., served in Malaysia after receiving an AB in International Relations from the University of South Carolina. She taught English to Chinese-speaking children aged five through nine and operated a small public library. Omo, who served in Turkey after receiving a BS in Social Science from Colorado State University, worked to promote agricultural cooperatives and to improve agricultural methods. He also helped to start a village reading room and taught English. Tuesday chapel will consist either of a Wind Ensemble presentation or a lecture in the Reynolds series.

2 Represent Davidson In Student Legislature
For the first time in three years, the Student Council has sent delegates to the N. C. State Student Legislature being held in Raleigh this weekend. Sophomores Fletcher Hartsell and John Roe will represent Davidson among the 32 other colleges and universities attending the convention. “Although we have been affiliated with the S.S.L.,” Hartsell said, “we have not been able to get students to go since the legislature has met on the same weekend as Midwinters. Since the student body decided to withdraw from the National Student Association last year,” he continued, “we felt that this was one way Davidson could make contact with the student governments of other schools in the state.” The legislature debates bills concerning such topics as lowering the voting age to 18 and “brown-bagging,” the topics being suggested by each school attending the convention. Bills which are passed are sent as a bloc to the N. C. Legislature for consideration. “Although we will not present any legislation of our own, we will participate as much as we can in the debates,” Hartsell said. “Since we have not attended for three years, we are essentially trying to find out how the S.S.L. operates so we will be able to send an organized delegation next year.”

Artist Series Presents Concert
Concert pianist Philippe Entremont will be presented in the second program in the Davidson Artist Series. His program will consist of five sonatas by Scarlatti, the Mozart “Sonata in G major K. 283,” and the “Etudes Symphoniques, Opus 13,” by Robert Schumann. Also scheduled is Debussy’s “Pour Le Piano: Prelude, Sarabande and Toccata.” The program will close with the Sergei Prokofieff “Sonata No. 2 in D Minor, Opus 14.” The concert will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Love auditorium next Friday. Students may pick up tickets at the College Union during regular office hours. The young French pianist made his American debut at the National Gallery in Washington in 1954. Since that time he has returned every season for engagements in the United States and Canada and has given concerts on five other continents. Entremont has appeared as soloist with all the major symphony orchestras in the world, and his solo piano recordings have been among the best selling in America. At 17 he was a finalist at the Queen Elizabeth of Belgium International Concours. He also won the Harriet Cohen Piano Medal and became First Laureate and Grand Prix winner of the Marguerite Long-Jacques Thibaud International Concours. Called by critics a “titan of the piano,” Entremont was born into a musical family. His father was a conductor and teacher and his mother won the French Grand Prix in piano.

YMCA Schedules Poet's Appearance
George Quasha will appear in the Morrison Room at 7:00 p.m. next Thursday for an informal reading of his poetry. Quasha, whose visit on campus will be sponsored by the YMCA, teaches at Stonybrook, a part of the University of New York. His works have been published in Poetry Magazine, Solstice, and Art and Science. In addition, Mr. Quasha will attend several classes on Thursday morning and a creative writing class that afternoon.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
A Buffet Served - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The ELK’S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas
Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Golf Course

Concert By Top Pianist
SHERRILLS JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

Examining produce in an open-air marketplace in Lisbon is one way to broaden one’s knowledge of the ways of the Portuguese people. These girls found exploring the markets of cities around the world a relaxing change from studies undertaken during a semester at sea on Chapman College's floating campus — now called World Campus Afloat. Alzada Knickerbocker of Knoxville, Tennessee — in the plaid dress — returned from the study-travel semester to complete her senior year in English at Radcliffe College. Jan Knippers of Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, a graduate of the University of Tennessee, and a former Peace Corps Volunteer, first pursued graduate studies in International Relations and returned a second semester as a teaching assistant in Spanish on the world-circling campus. Students live and attend regular classes aboard the s.s. RYNDAM, owned by the ECL Shipping Co. of Bremen for which the Holland-America Line acts as general passenger agent. In-port activities are arranged to supplement courses taught aboard ship. As you read this, the spring semester voyage of discovery is carrying 450 undergraduate and graduate students through the Panama Canal to call at ports in Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, Nigeria, Senegal, Morocco, Spain, Portugal, The Netherlands, Denmark, and Great Britain, returning to New York May 25. Next fall World Campus Afloat — Chapman College will take another 500 students around the world from New York to Los Angeles and in the spring, a new student body will journey from Los Angeles to ports on both west and east coasts of South America, in western and northern Europe and as far east as Leningrad before returning to New York. For a catalog describing how you can include a semester aboard the RYNDAM in your educational plans, fill in the information below and mail.

World Campus Afloat, Director of Admissions
Chapman College
Orange, California 92666

The Ryndam is of West German registry.

Name
Present Status (Last) (First)
Freshman ☐
Campus address Tel
Sophomore ☐
City State Zip
Junior ☐
Senior ☐
Permanent address Tel
City State Zip
Graduate ☐
Name of School Age