BLUE SKY PRESENTS CASE

Ed. Note: The following is the text of the arguments put forth by the Blue Sky Committee in support of its recommendations.

INTRODUCTION

Just two years ago, a group of seven educators spent three days at Davidson College in the capacity of a Visiting Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools for the purpose of evaluating our institutional self-study. The Visiting Committee issued a written report which was, for the most part, very flattering to the College. But their written report described our chapter on the educational program as dull and unimaginative. They suggested that Davidson needed to limn with more clarity and more vision the role of the college in the next ten or twenty-five years. We needed, in their language, to do some dreaming and some blue skying.

It has been said that a priesthood never reforms itself. The Visiting Committee doubtless served to trigger into action a long-standing suspicion of many of us that our historic program has now become outdated and that it is time for a change. At any rate, in the spring of 1966, the Faculty gave enthusiastic approval to the proposal that we conduct a thorough re-study of our educational program and authorized the establishment of a special committee to conduct the inquiry and to make recommendations. In May of 1966, the Trustees likewise approved the principle of curriculum revision and authorized the Dean of the Faculty to undertake the details of revision for ultimate approval by the Faculty. Such were the immediate origins of the Blue Sky Committee.

For many months now, the Blue Sky Committee has been working steadily. The Committee has met in formal session 46 times, and each member has had many outside committee assignments, as well as numerous sub-committee duties. With the help of a grant from the Duke Endowment, its members have visited more than a dozen of the best liberal arts colleges in the country, and we have had visitors from some of them on our campus, such as the Deans from Amherst, Bowdoin, and Sewanee. Enthusiasm has been manifest not only among members of the Blue Sky Committee but also from most other members of the Faculty, who have made many worthwhile contributions to our study through the reports of the eleven sub-committees which worked faithfully all last winter and spring. The Committee has considered many proposals which do not show up in this report. Many alternatives have been rejected. But the many months of discussion and argument have ended in a remarkable degree of agreement on both aims and means. Most of the recommendations have been adopted with unanimity; there are no minority reports.

CONTEXT OF RESTUDY

Believing that ‘a text without its context is a pretext,’ we have tried to ground our proposals firmly in educational realities as they exist both in higher education in general and at Davidson in particular. We begin by noting that in recent years educational literature has been glutted with dire predictions of the decline and fall of the liberal arts college, especially the church-related one. It is true that the surface forces and trends of our times seem to militate against its easy prosperity and its ability to compete in the current academic marketplace. Such a college appears to many observers to be obsolete because it was designed to serve purposes and to reflect values that no longer seem viable in a new and different culture.

For example, when Davidson College was founded, higher education was quantitatively dominated by private colleges; this is no longer so. The rapid expansion of American higher education, especially public higher education, has minimized the quantitative contribution of such colleges to the total tasks of higher education. The private, church-related college is now in a minority position. The vast increase in public funds for the purposes of higher education has also placed private colleges in a less prosperous condition than that of most public institutions. This was not true a century and a quarter ago when Davidson was just beginning. Further, the steady secularization of American culture during the last century has diminished the status of church colleges through the inexorable pressure of the mores upon all institutions of our society, including educational institutions. Church-related colleges are in the minority and are on the defensive. Finally, to many observers, the death of the liberal arts ideal seems inevitable because the explosion of knowledge complicates the former simplicities of learning and suggests that there is no body of essential knowledge and no group of absolute values which can any longer give unity and purpose to an educational program. Specialized scholarship, not broad basic learning, permeates twentieth-century education, and such a trend puts the liberal arts college in a minority and defensive position.

Even though we do not argue with the fact that the kind of education Davidson provides is in the minority, and perhaps on the defensive, we do contend that it is not obsolete. Liberal arts education does not continue to exist simply because it is already in existence. Its vitality cannot be explained merely in terms of the momentum of a century, for too many people die every year who have never died before. Further, if the competition of the marketplace is an index of its worth, then its value can hardly be questioned, for we cannot admit even a majority of those who apply. But liberal arts education is not obsolete for reasons better than the number of persons who demand it. It is relevant to this secular and technological age not only because it is still in demand, but because it makes demands of its own. It will not endure a lazy mind that is satisfied with facts. It thinks not so much of materials to be covered as of understanding to be achieved. It insists that the principal task of a college is not only to furnish the mind with knowledge but also to help each student find himself as an individual and then to lose himself in causes and ideas that are greater, more enduring, and more worthy than he. Liberal education has something to say about the inescapable realities of life—about good and evil, joy and suffering, death, history, science, God. Although it cannot give any student a faith, but only alternatives, it can help him provide a framework of fundamental attitudes which may allow him to discover the meaning of life for himself.

Thus, curriculum revision is predicated upon a recognition of several educational realities of our time. First, the ‘explosion of knowledge’ complicates the tasks both of defining and of confining liberal education. The vast increase in the quantity of human knowledge which has characterized the past generation convinces us that no longer can there be said to exist an agreed-upon body of learning which stamps any single structure with the seal of orthodoxy or final authority. This fact says to us that rigid programs must give way to flexible ones if the educated man of today is not to become the obsolete man of tomorrow.

Further, a liberal arts curriculum that meets the demands of any age is, by its very nature, different from others. It is unique in that there is imposed upon it no external pattern, as in law or medicine. There is no license or certification from the state to freeze it into a certain mold. A college must decide for itself what its curriculum shall be. This is a constant challenge to a faculty and neglect of it by reason of an easy complacency can be fatal to progress.

Second, in this age of expanding and improving public education, there appears to be little justification for the existence of a private liberal arts college unless it can offer a quality program not available in larger institutions. Ordinary programs are readily accessible at a cheaper price in many good institutions. Davidson, with the advantage of a highly selected student body, must offer something literally extraordinary, or else deserve to wither away into mediocrity. This fact says to us that ordinary programs must give way to imaginative proposals permeated with challenges to the superior student.

The final glittering reality to be mentioned—and stressed—is the quality of the Davidson student. Hardly any person now engaged in any phase of higher education will argue with the conclusion that college students are now far better prepared academically than they were ten years ago. All persons who knew Davidson students a decade ago are impressed with the great improvement in training and ability that has taken place. Curriculum changes in secondary education have produced some solid and impressive results.

We will cut through all the verbiage we can and get to the heart of the matter.

PROPOSED CALENDAR ACADEMIC YEAR — 1968-1969:

FALL TERM
- September 18-24: Orientation Period
- September 24: Basic Registration of Upperclassmen by Mail as of August 15, 1968. This includes payment of fees.
- September 25: Classes Begin
- November 23: 11:00 a.m., Thanksgiving Holidays Begin
- December 2: 8:00 a.m., Thanksgiving Holidays End
- December 11: Pre-examination Study Day
- December 12: Fall Term Examinations Begin
- December 18: Fall Term Examinations End
- December 18: 5:00 p.m., Christmas Recess Begins
- January 6: 8:00 a.m., Christmas Recess Ends

WINTER TERM
- January 6: 8:00 a.m., Winter Term Classes Begin
- March 15: Pre-examination Study Day
- March 17: Winter Term Examinations Begin
- March 21: Winter Term Examinations End
- March 21: 5:00 p.m., Spring Recess Begins
- March 31: 8:00 a.m., Spring Recess Ends

SPRING TERM
- March 31: 8:00 a.m., Spring Term Begins
- June 7: Pre-examination Study Day
- June 9: Spring Term Examinations Begin
- June 12: Spring Term Examinations End
- June 14 and 15: Commencement

HONORS COLLEGE SUMMARY
An Honors College would be established for 35 to 50 students, whose graduation requirements would then be set by the Honors College faculty. The College’s faculty would be rotated with the regular faculty.

NON-WESTERN STUDIES
A program in Non-Western studies would be offered, but there would be no major in this area.

AREA REQUIREMENTS
The field of liberal arts would be divided into four areas: Language, Literature and the Arts; Religion and Philosophy; Social Science; and Natural Science. Students would be required to pass area examinations before entering the junior year.

THREE-TRACK PROGRAM
A student would be allowed to take regular courses, or if he wished, and were qualified, to take up independent study or enter the Honors College.

THREE-TERM YEAR
The two semesters would be replaced by three terms, with first term exams before Christmas and second term exams before spring vacation.

ROTC
Basic ROTC would be voluntary and would receive no academic credit. Advanced ROTC would receive two courses of credit. The Committee called for the development of a new and imaginative program of officer training.

GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
Thirty-two courses would be required, eight per year: three courses each of the first two terms, and two the third. Twelve courses would be required for a major, and 12 for the basic requirements.

LEARNING CENTER
A Learning Center would be built featuring programmed learning and resources for independent study, as well as a career service program.

THREE TERM SYSTEM
Term I: Fresh. 250—3 courses each, Soph. 250—3 courses each, Jr. 250—3 courses each, Sr. 250—3 courses each, 1000 students take 3 courses each.take 3 courses each term. No college can afford to walk backwards into the future. It is in the light of these realities that we propose specific features which we believe will help us meet the demands of a new age. We are convinced that, above all other features, we require flexibility and challenge to individual student responsibility to a greater degree than we have had in the old program. Flexibility is achieved by a number of devices to be described below, such as a new calendar, a provision for area requirements to replace the former rigid core requirements of specific courses, a three-track plan whereby a choice is given in the ways by which students may meet area, major, and graduation requirements, and by the proposal of an Honors College. Challenge to individual student responsibility is written into the program by means of many of these features already mentioned, but also by the proposals for a learning center, area examinations, and especially by the provisions for independent study and the Honors College. When we realize the broadened scope of education and the varied abilities and training of students, we are led to see that no one structure, no one plan, can accommodate the diversity of experience we seek. As the Sub-committee on Student Life pointed out in its Report, this diversity cannot be provided by structures, but can be stimulated by them. Because so much of education occurs through chance encounters, it cannot be completely programmed. What we try to envision is an environment so open and so free that these crucial accidents of discovery are everywhere encouraged. And so it follows that if our design for the environment of education is for one that is flexible and open, there must be provided an opportunity for a greater measure of student responsibility. If we picture a setting in which the student becomes educated instead of getting an education, this implies for him an involved role, not an inert one. He must be, ultimately, the motivating force for his own education as he takes advantage of offered opportunities and as he moves from encounter and inquiry to experience and involvement. The process thus centers on the student: the environment around him is the medium through which his own identity and his own intellectual integrity may be stimulated. The logic of these convictions leads us to realize that we must make exceptions for the exceptional student and that no required ritual fits the needs and abilities of all students. We must encourage each one to understand that what he does beyond the ritual will be the true measure of his excellence. The most important examination he will ever have will be the examination he gives his own conscience. Such are the challenging realities that make up the context in which the Committee has worked and planned. The recommendations we propose reflect our recognition of these realities and of the challenges inherent in them. But educational commitment, if it is authentic, will be not only to the realities but to the possibilities of our age. One thoughtful educator has reminded us that the principal task of our colleges is to educate man to see reality as the God of Genesis saw the chaos: as clay to be worked; and above all to recognize that the working of the clay is a part of the reality. A curriculum is a combination of information, techniques, and attitudes whose proportions must constantly change. It is an expression of a conviction that the tone, style, and skills connected with liberal learning can make one more sensible and more responsive as well as more knowledgeable. It insists that a truly liberal human being can be produced by the yen for excellence. In such a context, and with such a hope, your Committee is proposing a new curriculum, acknowledging that it is always a means to an end. The features, described in the following sections of this report, represent our attempt to recognize the realities of our age, but also to realize its potentialities by providing an environment of flexibility, challenge, and increased student responsibility.

ADVANTAGES TO STUDENTS

In planning a new program for Davidson College, your Committee constantly has had before it the educational needs of the Davidson student. We have proceeded in the conviction that it was to his best interests that we produce a curriculum that was not so broad that it would frustrate or not so deep that it would paralyze. We have sought to provide flexibility, challenge, and opportunities for increased student responsibility. We believe these qualities are featured in the new proposals. The present program of rigid and uniform requirements is replaced by one with far more choice within the broad areas of liberal education. This arrangement is a recognition of the changing nature of liberal learning. It will make his education more relevant to his times, whichever track he may choose. Challenge and individual responsibility are provided in many ways, but especially by the area examinations which require a responsibility beyond assigned course materials and by the opportunities for independent study and the Honors College. We believe he can become far better educated than was likely under the traditional program.

ADVANTAGES TO THE FACULTY

Up to this point, little or nothing has been said directly about the effects of the proposed new curriculum on the members of the Faculty as teachers and scholars. The faculty advantages inherent in the proposals need now to be summarized and evaluated. In the first place, it will become necessary for each faculty member to revise his present course structure and content in order to fit the work of a 15-week semester into a ten-week term. Each instructor will have to rethink and reorganize his course materials; this necessity will be professionally good for most of us in compelling us to update our teaching in both content and method. Further, each department will have to review its offerings in the light of a new calendar and different student requirements. The flexibility provided in the new program will also compel the faculty member to take far more seriously his role as academic adviser, especially to those students who elect tracks outside the regular course track. This will afford limitless opportunities for close intellectual and personal relationships between faculty and students. The composition and needs of the Faculty are matters of utmost concern to the present and future welfare of Davidson College. It will not be sufficient for Davidson to continue its compensation program into the future. While this surely needs to be done, the College must also recognize and plan for the professional needs of its Faculty: if the talents and promise of the students are to be adequately developed. A challenging new curriculum will hold many and attract others, but only if teaching loads can be reduced, research opportunities increased, and exciting changes for perpetual self-renewal provided. Your Committee believes our proposed program gives promise of these things. From the beginning, one of the stated purposes of curriculum revision has been the objective of a reduction of teaching loads from an average of 12 hours a week to one of nine. The question becomes, what will we need to hold our own in quality and still reduce teaching loads to approximately nine hours? We have already explained our proposal to abandon semester hour requirements and to substitute the requirement of 32 courses for graduation. With this recommendation in mind, on the basis of the prevailing ratio of 15 to 1, what are staff needs under the new proposal? 1000 students at eight courses per year equals 8000 courses. If faculty members teach two courses each term, they would teach six courses in an academic year instead of the present eight. By mathematical calculation, we find that 89 faculty members are needed, not counting the faculty needs of special programs such as Honors College and Non-Western studies. Recalling our proposals for a new calendar and the 3-3-2 plan, and the arrangement shown in the chart, we believe we will be able to adjust the teaching loads of the Faculty so that about 22 faculty members can teach three courses for two terms instead of two courses for three terms, and have one term off during the academic year; the other 67 faculty members would teach two courses in each of three terms. Our hope is that by rotating the 22 members who will teach their nine-hour load in two terms instead of three terms, we can achieve this balance.

AREA REQUIREMENTS

LANGUAGE, LITERATURE, AND THE ARTS
a. Language and Literature
b. Fine Arts, Speech, Drama
Requirements: 3 courses in 2 departments, including at least 1 course in group a. and 1 course in group b. For credit in I a., courses numbered 11, 12, 13 (according to the present curriculum) will not count.

RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
Requirement: 3 courses, at least 2 in Religion

AREA III
NATURAL SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS
Requirement: 3 courses, chosen from at least 2 departments

AREA IV
SOCIAL SCIENCE
a. Anthropology, Economics, Education, Psychology, Sociology
b. Geography, History, Political Science
Requirement: 3 courses, including at least 1 course in group a. and 1 course in group b.

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: 12 courses as specified above, of which at least 2 courses in each of the 4 areas must be taken by the end of the second year.