Page Six + March 17, 1967 The Davidsonian

CO’S JUSTIFY DECISIONS
Dr. Max Polley Questions Aiken (L) Mombrea And Johnson

HITLER IRRELEVANT
Draft Takes Moral Decision

The individual's decision concerning conscientious objection or participation must be a moral decision, one which cannot be glossed over, advised
Bob Welsh, a representative of the American Friends Service Committee, in chapel Tuesday.

Welsh said he was not advocating conscientious objection to military service; he emphasized the fact that a person must make
his own decision concerning this.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

PERSONAL DECISION
Welsh Explains Role Of Courage

Welsh said that those who ask, “Would you have fought against Hitler?” do not understand that what matters is the
world situation now, not the world situation 20 years ago. In his opinion, the situation now is difficult to evaluate.
The war in Vietnam is being glossed over, he said. The statements of officials, such as Gen. Westmoreland, do not
really say anything. Such statements as, “We are cleaning out the Communists,” overlook the fact that we are killing some
innocent people along the way. “They should tell it like it is,” said Welsh.

He illustrated his point that people should make their own decision by telling of an experience he had at bayonet
practice in boot camp. The sergeant in charge of bayonet training would stand in front of the trainees and shout,
“What's a bayonet for?” The trainees were supposed to shout back, “To kill, to kill.” Welsh said that one day
it struck him that he should not be shouting “kill” along with everyone else. “But then,” he said, “I did
not have the courage to carry out my feelings. So I shouted along with everybody else.”

He cited the experience of one of his friends to demonstrate the courage that Welsh needed in his own situation.
His friend had joined the army with the knowledge that he would be a radioman so that he would not
be killing anyone. But later, when he realized that he would be indirectly killing people, he applied for a reclassification
as a conscientious objector.

Welsh closed by offering the advice a Quaker once gave to a man carrying a sword. The Quaker told him,
“Wear that sword as long as you can.” Welsh said men should fight as long as they honestly feel they
can. But when they feel they cannot, then they should have the moral courage to follow their convictions.

Romer To Expound Primate Evolution

Dr. Alfred G. Romer of Harvard University will lecture Monday night on “The Evolution of the Primates and Man.” The
lecture will be given at 7:30 p.m. in the Dana Science Building. One of the outstanding men in the fields
of Paleontology and Evolution, Romer has written many books including two leading textbooks, The Vertebrate Body and Man and the
Vertebrates. Romer comes to Davidson under the

Few Changes Planned In ’67-’68 Curriculum

Course changes for next year are fewer than usual, said Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, in announcing the changes
for next year. Johnston attributed the small number of changes to expected Blue Sky Committee recommendations. The changes were approved
by the faculty Tuesday.

A course in race relations is to be offered by the Sociology Department next year and in alternating years afterward.
The course description calls for special emphasis on Negro-white relations since 1953.

Separate courses on Chinese and Japanese history are to be offered by the History Department next year as 93 and
94. A survey of western art will be offered as Fine Arts 31, which will become the prerequisite for 42.
The political science course in contemporary political thought will be changed to a seminar, and a tutorial course will be
offered as 53.

Math 21, the elementary computer course, will be made a prerequisite for the advanced computer course, 43, 44. The economics
department will offer an accelerated one-semester course which juniors and seniors may substitute for 21, 22. A summer internship in
teaching is to be offered by the Education Department. This is a required course for awarding teaching certificates in North
Carolina.

Fraternities To Post Schedule For Parties

The Social Chairmen’s Association will begin a practice of posting in the Union lobby a list of fraternities holding open
parties, instead of printing lists in The Davidsonian, President Jim Richardson said this week. The change of notification was necessary
because the newspaper often comes out late on the Fridays of major dance weekends, Richardson noted. The listings will include
the time, location, performers, and status, whether open or closed, for each fraternity party.

In other business, the association announced plans to open bids to major favor companies for favors for all Davidson students
on big weekends. Plans for mass purchases of Homecoming corsages and roses for pinmates were also discussed.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, EDWARD DWELLE
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Photography Editor: BILL OLSON
Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE, BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Managing Editors: CHARLES McEWEN, KERN PARKER
Sports Editor: TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID
News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER
Photographers: DON CARROLL, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: GUNNAR MAGNUS, NAT HEYWARD
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Allen Lewis, Kenneth Hamilton, Randy Bridges, Heyward Whetsell, Bob Dunham, Ken Cool, Bob Buchanan, Brodie Brown, John
Williams, Bill Cockrill, Ed Hembree, Franklin Anderson, Robert Pyeatt, Woody Gleason, Carter Fussell, Charles Brockwell, Don Sewell, Charlie Elliott, George
Cretekos, Lewis Lavine, and Dick Spencer.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

3 Named To Attend Southeastern IFC

Jim MacNair, Pi Kappa Phi representative to the Interfraternity Council, was elected to go with IFC President Gus Cochran and
Bobby Vagt, vice president, to the Southeastern IFC in Atlanta at the regular IFC meeting Tuesday night. The council voted
to delay the election of a secretary-treasurer until the IFC representatives for the next year are elected. The council also
voted to hold Greek Week the week after.auspices of the Piedmont University Center. All students are invited to hear his
lecture.

Conscientious Objectors Base Decision On Religious Belief

“The military doesn’t solve any conflicts, it only creates more conflicts,” stated B. A. Aiken in Tuesday night’s Open End.
Aiken, Sam Johnson, and Dan Mombrea, all conscientious objectors, discussed their draft status in a panel moderated by Dr. Max
Polley. Each panelist explained that his objection to war was based on religious belief or training.

The new “Action Union,” headed by president B. A. Aiken, took to the hills of Fletcher, N. C., last weekend
to plan Union activities through the first semester of next year, and to analyze several modes of vitalizing the Union
as the center of student activities. Perhaps the students’ lack of realization of the potential of the Union lies at
the crux of means of improvement. As Sam Darby commented, “No one comes to the Union unless some activity has
been planned. Students, by and large, put little emphasis on self-entertainment.”

The Union, through scheduling some event every night to develop the habit of stopping by often to see “what's happening,”
and stressing facilities for self-entertainment, hopes to invigorate student patronage. In further critique, board members advanced other suggestions. A consolidation
of the Social Council and social activities of the Union Board would eliminate duplication and permit more integrated, unified planning
for the big weekends. Furthermore, greater coordination with the campus organizations would facilitate publicity and permit more speakers at less
expense to the individual organizations. Greater contact with the faculty by means of Union open houses for faculty and students
and panel programs to acquaint students with personal interests of the faculty would result in a more relaxed atmosphere. Improvement
of the Snack Bar facilities and establishment of a private lounge area would enhance the physical plant. These changes would
precipitate a more vital, student-oriented Union with the ability to carry out more efficiently student activities.

Aiken, classified 1-0 (not available for any military service, including non-combatant, but willing to take a civilian job in the
national interest during wartime), stated that he believed that certain teachings attributed to Christ are opposed to violence and war.
“I believe that Christ is the revelation of God,” said Aiken, “and He said that if you love Him, you
will follow His commandments such as ‘do not kill’ and ‘turn the other cheek’.”

Mombrea and Johnson, both classified 1-A0 (available for non-combatant military service only), based their objections on the grounds of the
“gospel of the love ethic.” Johnson defined God as “that which is not cause and effect,” and stated his belief
that God and the “love ethic” are revealed through the Bible and Jesus.

Service in the military (combat) is not loving and is therefore conscientiously objectionable, according to Johnson. In answer to the
question, “If opposed to force, do you not oppose the nation-state maintained by the army and armed police?” Aiken denied
this assumption, stating that he believed in the need for law and order. Johnson stated that if everyone believed as
he did “some anarchy would result,” but that he thought this unlikely. If personally attacked, Aiken and Johnson stated that
they would attempt to respond in other ways than violence, such as running or counteracting the attack with love. In
explaining his classification of 1-A0, Johnson stated that there was a “sliding scale of involvement in the government” during wartime.
“Any participation in society during wartime is involvement in the war, and it is only a matter of to what
degree you want to become involved.”

FOR YOUR TRAVEL
FREE professional routing service saves you time and money. ALL arrangements can be made by phone — Call 892-1138 (Davidson)
STATESVILLE TRAVEL Service
Youth cards available — $3.00
Travel half fare on stand-by basis.

Camp Openings: Wanted: College Men, Students and faculty, for Coastal Boy’s Camp, June 13-August 19. Activity needs: Sailing, Motorboating, Water
Safety Instructors, Scuba, Archery, Riflery, Crafts, Campcraft, Pianists, General, and Administrative. Excellent character references required. Good salary according to age,
experience, and college classification. Room and board furnished. Quick answers upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor or Donald
M. Cheek, Camp Sea Gull, P. O. Box 10976, Raleigh, N. C. 27605.

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE’S “just up the road”
THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

If you're 16-22 you can be a Young Ambassador. Tell the people you meet about America while traveling in the
friendliest way: via bicycle and train, staying in Youth Hostels as unique as a chateau, as simple as a university
dormitory. Travel in small co-ed groups with a trained American Youth Hostels leader as chaperon who'll take you to famous
and untouristy places. You'll get a travel wardrobe from Lady Wrangler’s or Mr. Wrangler’s Young Ambassadors Collection and you'll be
supplied with a bike and saddlebags. Go to the store nearest you that sells Lady Wrangler or Mr. Wrangler Sportswear.
Look for the Young Ambassadors Collection and get your application form. Scholarship applications close May 5, 1967. Lady Wrangler Sportswear,
1407 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10018. Mr. Wrangler Menswear, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10001. American Youth Hostels

SHERRILLS JEWELRY
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Main St. Davidson

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
RUSSELL STOVER CANDIES for Easter
‘Your Neighborhood Drug Store’
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Phone 892-2111

The Hub
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

SPRING HOLIDAYS COMING UP
Go home in clean clothes. We can dry clean and wash your shirts at
JACKSON CLEANERS
Main St. Across From Gulf Station

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd at Remount Rd

So Much for So Little
Our handsome traditional Sportcoats, Blazers, and Suits by HUNTER HAIG and BOTANY 500
John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE
Our 55th Year
