Page Four May 12, 1967

WORK ON DEFECTS BEGINS
Sound, Lighting Setup Criticized

SOUND EQUIPMENT SNAFU
‘Miswired’ Auditorium Control Panel Criticized

Who's Nothing Recognizes Untapped Student Potential

Acting on the premise that “the cool will inherit the earth,” Who's Nothing recognized 17 students and two faculty members at its annual tapping at chapel Monday. Spokesman and senior member Charles Goodykoontz, wearing tennis shoes, faded dungarees, and a gray sweatshirt, commented that the organization was formed so that “recognition for untapped potential might be given where it is due,” and that each member is selected because “he does nothing in comparison to what he could do.”

Goodykoontz next introduced Dr. Thomas F. Clark, professor of Bible and fondly known as “T. Bird Tommy,” who delivered the keynote speech.

Clark explained that being a nothing is an innate desire for all members, whom he termed “paragons of inertia.” He cited Goodykoontz as an example, telling of the time he enrolled in one of his classes, came to one session, and dropped the course because it was too hard. The aim of the typical Who's Nothing member is “to get through Davidson in four or five or six years doing nothing while maintaining a cool image.”

For those who have hopes of membership, Clark set forth these suggestions: support a lottery to raise money for a Herb Jackson mural at Hattie’s, carry a copy of Winnie the Pooh, use the faculty bathroom in Chambers, and join a movement to impeach Cop Linker. “Go to Florida on 34 cents,” Clark advised, or “tell a professor he has bad breath. The possibilities are endless.”

Gripes about poor service and excessive equipment costs in the newly-renovated Love Auditorium have cropped up recently. “One of the largest complaints,” stated Bob McKellar, who is in charge of lighting at concerts and other functions, “is that the equipment should have been fully installed six months ago.”

There have been two main areas of criticism — lighting and sound. Workmen are still working to correct construction faults in each of these areas. In discussing problems concerning equipment, McKellar emphasized that much of the trouble originated both with the contractors and with faulty equipment such as the dimmers. “Some things have been miswired, some things misnumbered, some lights placed in backwards—there was nothing major wrong, and yet we have had many small problems,” McKellar said.

“The intercom, designed to coordinate lighting from various directions, was scheduled for completion last October. It should now be ready for the first concert next year,” he continued.

Clark warned would-be members against trying too hard to be a nothing. “You have to be born with this talent,” he said, but quickly added that “the Class of ‘67 has been abundantly blessed.”

Goodykoontz then took the floor again to begin the tapping ceremony. With each blow of the beer-can gavel, two more brothers went out into the audience and sought out the new members. These seniors were inducted into Who's Nothing: Duff Armfield, Joe Gaddy, Ray Garrison, Bryant Hinnant, Rodney Knowles, John Mason, Bob O'Kelly, Randy Randolph, Greg Reineck, and Penn Spell.

Most of the defects in the sound system equipment are being corrected at the present at the college's expense. The weakest part of the sound system, however, is the speakers. At the present, there is one large speaker overhead, and a more desirable setup would be one speaker on each side of the stage, according to Hicks and Pitts.

“The auditorium sound equipment just is not adequate for our concerts,” said Pitts. “We have had to take the Social Council's sound system from the Union to Love Auditorium for every one this year.”

Since the first of this year, John Ouzts, assistant alumni director, has been in charge of coordinating the work on the auditorium. McKellar noted that there have been many improvements since this time. Before Ouzts was placed in charge, there was no one person responsible for the work, and the result was a delay in completing the project.

McKellar also said that Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, has spent much time and personal expense in designing and improving the lighting facilities. Although McKellar, Hicks, and Pitts had much to say about problems that they have encountered with the auditorium equipment, they all agreed on the great potential of the facilities in Love Auditorium.

“When the present defects and speaker problems have been corrected,” Hicks said, “our sound system should be as good as any professional system that I have seen, including radio and television stations.”

National SSOC Chairman To Give Views Wednesday

Tom Gardiner, national chairman of the Southern Student Organizing Committee, will speak in the Union Wednesday at 7:30. He will be sponsored by the local SSOC chapter. The local SSOC group was temporarily denied a campus charter by the Student Activities Committee Wednesday pending completion of the group's constitution and a meeting with President D. Grier Martin.

Gardiner and David Nolan, SSOC staff member who will also come to Davidson, recently completed a “Peace Tour” of Florida where they spoke on the Wolf Ends Exchange Program

The Davidson-Florida Presbyterian College (FPC) exchange program for 1967 was completed this past weekend. Six Davidson students spent the weekend of May 4-7 on the St. Petersburg, Fla. campus interviewing administration and faculty members, talking with students, and attending classes.

Membership was also extended to faculty members Maj. Harold J. Fraley and Dr. James W. Reid. According to Goodykoontz, these men were selected “not for their nothingness, but for their sympathetic attitude toward the nothingness found in us, their students.”

New members were presented with aluminum-plated bottle openers for use at the chapter house “just up the road.”

Council Requests Interim In Readmission Payments

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council recommended at its Monday meeting that students who are considering transferring to another school for the coming year be allowed an interim period from March 15 to April 10 in which to pay their $100 fee for readmission to Davidson the next year.

The council also voted to make a recommendation to the business office that a machine be purchased to make new, more durable student identification cards.

The first motion, which was prompted by a request from Admissions Director H. Edmunds White, would save those students who are waiting to hear from other colleges after March 15 the $100 fee that they would pay and forfeit under the present system. These students would, however, have to pay a $10 late fee. It would also give those students who simply forget to pay their fees the chance to pay $110 and not have to remain on the waiting list in order to be readmitted.

The motion recommending the new machine was voted down at first because students would have to finance the machine by paying a dollar to get their ID card. Some members felt that the college could afford to buy the machine and should continue to pay for the student ID cards. Council members later passed the motion when President TomEarnhardt pointed out that the new card could provide such extra advantages as speeding up the process of checking out library books. By using machines which would print students’ names on a library card, such a process could be put into effect. The new cards would have a color picture of the student with different possible color backgrounds, a tight plastic seal making it more durable and better looking, and all the necessary statistics about the student. The cards could be made very quickly on campus. Earnhardt pointed out that there are now 500 books missing from the library that have not been checked out. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, has declared a period of grace ending May 17 during which students can return these books without paying a fine. Most of the council members turned in their names to Earnhardt as volunteer guides for the Admissions Office for special situations. Such situations would include serving as a guide for a foreign visitor or in hosting especially bright students who were unable to come for Scholarship Weekend. These special tours would in no way take the place of the normal campus tours now conducted by the Admissions Office.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The exchange-discussion program is co-sponsored by the Davidson and FPC student governments. The purpose is to germinate some mutual understanding between the two schools, which despite general similarities, feature some widely differing characteristics. The initial phase was carried out three weeks ago by a similar student group from FPC. At a Union Open End discussion, Davidson students were given the opportunity to question the FPC representatives. The greatest interest centered around the Florida Presbyterian “Core” program, required periods of independent study, and athletic policy. The Davidson contingent, led by Student Council member Mike May, included Charlie Jones, Phil Ray, Charles Newton, Harry Parker, and McCrea Ewart. Upon arrival, each representative was given a schedule of suggested activities and encouraged to participate.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
217 N. Tryon St.

PIZZA Pipe Smoker
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

Gurley’s ESSO
MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS
PHONE 892-9304
Gas up for the weekend and play Tigerino and win like Mrs. Janice Hale, a $100 winner.
375-9723
Charlotte

Dean Bevan, a former Davidson professor, discussed the “Core” program, which corresponds roughly to Davidson's Vietnam war at colleges and universities. About SSOC’s failure to receive a charter as a campus organization, Student Body President Tom Earnhardt said in a prepared statement, “Because no recommendation to charter the SSOC was given by the Student Activities Committee at its meeting May 10 does not mean that a charter will not be given. Committee members wanted a list of local projects along with the SSOC national constitution. I don’t foresee any problems at the next meeting.” Any group seeking a charter as a campus organization has to submit a constitution to the Student Activities Committee. The local SSOC group submitted the national SSOC constitution as their constitution. The committee requested that they write an appendix to it giving plans for the local group. Faculty adviser for the group is Dr. Ernest Patterson. Probable topics of action of the organization include the Vietnam war, race relations, labor relations, and community organization, according to chairman Frank Goldsmith. Six members of the local group attended the national SSOC convention held at Swannanoa last weekend. A forthcoming Vietnam summer program was discussed at the convention, Goldsmith said, in which SSOC staff members will travel in the South and discuss the Vietnam war. Also, the Southern Folk Festival, a presentation of Southern culture, was planned.

On Campus
(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

HOW TO GET A’S IN ALL YOUR FINAL EXAMS

In today’s column, the last of the school year, I intend to be funny. I don’t know if I have achieved this objective many times throughout the year, but this time it’s on purpose. The hour is wrong for levity. Final exams are looming. Have you got a chance? I say yes! America did not become the world’s foremost producer of stove bolts and cotter pins by running away from a fight! You will pass your finals! How? By studying. How? By learning mnemonics. Mnemonics, as we all know, was invented by the great Greek philosopher Mnemon in 526 B.C. (This, incidentally, was only one of the inventions of this fertile Athenian. He also invented the house cat, the opposing thumb, and, most important, the staircase. Before the staircase, people were forced to live out their lives on the ground floor, and many grew cross as bears. Especially Demosthenes who was elected Consul of Athens six times but never served because he was unable to get up to the office of the Commissioner of Oaths on the third floor to be sworn in. But after Mnemon’s staircase, Demosthenes got to the third floor easy as pie as it turned out. Demosthenes, his temper shortened by his years of confinement to the ground floor, soon embroiled his countrymen in a series of senseless wars with the Persians, the Medes, and the Los Angeles Rams. This later became known as the Missouri Compromise.)

But I digress. We were discussing mnemonics, which are nothing more than aids to memory—little jingles to help you remember names, dates, and places. For example:

Columbus sailed the ocean blue
In fourteen hundred ninety-two.

See how simple? Make up your own jingles. What, for instance, came after Columbus’s discovery of America? The Boston Tea Party, of course. Try this:

Samuel Adams flang the tea
Into the briny Zuyder Zee.

(NOTE: The Zuyder Zee was located in Boston Harbor until 1801 when Salmon P. Chase traded it to Holland for Alaska and two linebackers.)

But I digress. Let’s get back to mnemonics. Like this:

In nineteen hundred sixty-seven
Personna Blades make shaving heaven.

I mention Personna because the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are the sponsors of this column. If I may get a little misty in this, the final column of the school year, may I say it’s been a pleasure working for Personna? May I say further that it’s been an even greater pleasure working for you, the undergrads of America? You’ve been a most satisfactory audience, and I'm going to miss you this summer. In fact, I’d ask you all to come visit me except there is no access to my room. The makers of Personna, after I missed several deadlines, walled me in. I have no doors or windows—only a mail slot. I slip the columns out; they slip in Personnas and such food as can go through a mail slot. (For the past six months I've been living on after-dinner mints.)

I am only having my little joke. The makers of Personna have not walled me in, for they are good and true and gleaming and constant—as good and true and gleaming and constant as the blades they make—and I wish to state publicly that I will always hold them in the highest esteem, no matter how my suit for back wages comes out.

And so, to close the year, I give you one last mnemonic:

Study hard and pass with honors,
And always shave with good Personnas!

© 1967, Max Shulman

Personna and Personna’s partner in luxury shaving, Burma-Shave, regular or menthol, have enjoyed bringing you another year of Max’s uncensored and uninhibited column. We thank you for supporting our products; we wish you luck in your exams and in all your other enterprises.