Spring: Launches Grid ’67
By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Clear skies and warm spring weather which have sent Davidson students scurrying for blankets, suntan lotion, and tennis racquets have
also signaled the beginning of the Wildcats’ 1967 football campaign. For the fan, the season begins with the first kick-off
in the fall. However, preparation for that first whistle began last Saturday for the football Wildcats and their coaching staff.
The gridders will work in pads four times a week into early May, totaling 20 practices, which is the maximum
allotted by the NCAA. Head Coach Homer Smith and his assistants have slated drills for Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday night, and
Saturday, spacing them so as to avoid conflicts and not overburden the squad's members.

ABLE TO HIT
Although drills have been underway for only a week, one factor has especially pleased the coaching staff. “The major difference,”
Smith pointed out, “is that for the first time we are able to hit each other. Lack of contact could
have been the reason for some of our defensive lapses last year.” Off-season conditioning sessions, although less extensive than most
major school programs, have enabled the squad of about 47 men to get to work quickly. Already the coaches have
nearly installed the offensive, defensive, and kicking systems for next fall. “We are working backwards, from the whole to its
parts,” Smith said. “We will change our offensive alignments and emphasize the running game on offense because we are sure
that most opponents will stack against our passing attack. Then, we will go back and work individually.”

The coaches normally excuse anyone from spring drills who plays baseball but still practices football sometimes. Nevertheless, the coaches have
already pinpointed several men as keys to a successful campaign next year. Sam Gwynn is currently the number three man
at last year’s troublesome defensive end position, Jeff Pflugner is expected to be a mainstay at defensive tackle, and Terry
Esterkamp at guard could solve one of last year's biggest problems. The major personnel changes have been the shifting of
John Zahorav to defensive end, Buddy Newsom's installment at offensive center, and Esterkamp's move to guard. Other candidates, which include
members of last year's freshman team, are currently running at the slots they held last fall. But despite the larger
number of players, Smith maintains that “we are still 8-10 men away from real depth. We will have no second-team
except at quarterback. What we had last year was less than no depth.”

COACH LAUDS AIDES
In addition to Warner Alford, an assistant who replaced departed Dick Tomey, Coach Smith praised the help of Gary Waldron,
Ron Gruber, and Dick Short, who is working seven hours a day on a construction job and then assisting Smith
for free. “The contributions of these men may mean an extra victory for us next year,” said Smith. “It is
like having three extra full-time assistants.”

STAY UNDEFEATED
The Davidsonian, April 14, 1967, Page Five

Fijis Top IMAC Chart
By JOHN HUGGINS
Sports Writer

The Phi Gams became the only unscathed team in IMAC softball contests through Wednesday by out-slugging the previously unbeaten Sigma
Chis, 13-9. In other Wednesday action, the Phi Delts fell from the unbeaten ranks at the hands of the bustling
Taus, 6-4, while the Kappa Sigs copped a three-game victory surge with a 7-6 decision over the Betas. The SAEs
came up with a victory over the Sigma Nus, 6-5.

The Fijis have been spurred in their victories over the Pi Kapps, KAs, Betas, Taus, and Machis by the tough
pitching of Bob “Hot Apple” Apgar and a tight defense. However, a defensive lapse nearly cost them the Beta game,
their toughest to date. According to Phi Gam Benjie Goodman, “We had them 7-4 with two out and one man
on in the bottom of the seventh. Joe Rice of the Betas hit a soft fly to left field. Barry
‘Madman’ MacLean's showboat lunge for it turned into a four-base, two-run error. It is a good thing Apgar kept the
next hitter from hitting to left.”

SPRING PRACTICE OPENS WITH BANG
“Have A Chance to Hit...”
By DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

Mike Spann, a free-swinging, long-hitting sophomore, fired a 71 in the team’s first match against North Carolina, good enough to
place him in a three-way tie for medalist. “Mike is by far the best we have,” said Coach Scott. “In
the Florida Tournament, he finished 24 strokes ahead of our nearest golfer. Because of Mike's performance, and the performance of
the rest of the team, we are a top Southern Conference contender. But individually, I feel that Mike is as
good as anyone in the conference.”

The conference tournament will be held May 10 and 11 at the Dunes in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Spann has already
shot 74 on that course this year. Dr. Scott said Spann, as well as the rest of the team, has
a chance to score points for another conference championship. Under this heading come Tom Caldwell, Dick Lindsey, John Giles, and
Hank Strickland.

Head coach Dr. Tom Scott added that Spann was not more than five or six shots behind the winner of
the event in finishing sixth. Spann earned himself a tie with Wake Forest's top golfer. Spann is the team's low
average man, for the season averaging 75 strokes per round, just three over par. He is strongly supported by teammates
George Leight, Carey Hite, Joe Jelks, and John Giles, all averaging less than 78 strokes per round.

In regular season matches this year, Spann, who played number one as a freshman last year, has had several outstanding
scores. He, Jelks, Hite, and Leight each scored 75 at the Dunes course at Myrtle Beach, S.C., to defeat George
Washington, The Citadel, and Furman. “Mike's shots off the tee are long and true,” said Scott. “His iron game is
very accurate. Lately, his putting has been a little off, but I think this can be attributed to our not
practicing enough on the greens.”having no place to practice. A fine golfer, Mike is improving steadily." Spann, originally from Burlington,
N.C., has been playing golf since he was eight years old. But still he can say, "When I play golf,
it is a pleasure to me, not work at all. I have always enjoyed the game a great deal. I
got off to a good start this season and I only hope I can keep it up." Senior Joe Jelks,
captain of this year’s team, added that Spann's value to the squad has been obvious.

FOREST FIRES CRIPPLE OF THE SOUTH! Millions of dollars in jobs, construction products, and natural resources. Thousands of acres in
scenic beauty, recreational facilities, and wildlife areas. These are the priceless gifts of your Southern forests claimed by wildfire each
year. So remember, whenever you fire, use extreme caution. Only you can prevent forest fires in the South. REMEMBER: EVERY
TIME A FIRE STRIKES, YOU GET BURNED!

Spann Stands As Top Golfer on the squad. He has a poor chance of winning the individual tournament and totaling
the conference championship won by last year’s team. "I agree that we have an excellent chance to win the conference
tournament again this autumn," Spann said. "I will be doing my best to win the individual championship, and I know
the others on the team will be doing the same. We have a strong shot at the team title."

FROLIC WITH FOOTBALL FIELD. The second-place Machis are led by the pitching of Bobby Lanier, a barrage of strong hitters,
including 9-for-9 Rick Milner, and a solid defense. The Phi Gam game marked the beginning of a series of tough
clashes for the Sigma Chis who previously had met only second-division teams. The Phi Delts and the Kappa Sigs, tied
in third place, both eked out victories over the hapless Pi Kapps. After squeezing by the Pi Kapps 8-7 Tuesday
of last week, the Delts took a 13-12 decision from the Pi Kapps in the bottom of the seventh when
Wayne Huckel raced home on one of Charlie Taylor's very infrequent wild pitches. The Delts did manage one convincing victory,
stomping the Betas, 19-12. Ron Hunt went 4-for-4, Rick Travilla had 4 RBIs, and latecomers Tommy O'Brien and Joe Gardner
supplied hits.

After a bad case of first-game jitters and a subsequent 6-5 loss to the Pikas last Thursday, the Kappa Sigs
settled down to eke past the luckless Pi Kapps 6-5 in the seventh inning last Friday. After a big weekend
sidelined some of the first-week infielders with hangovers, the Sigs have thus far continued on the winning trail. Of the
teams usually on the losing end, various excuses were offered. The Pi Kapps need a luck-out player to balance their
attack. According to coach John Hunter, the KAs suffer most from inexperience. Sig Ep Roger Mercer said his team suffered
from the lack of ability to pull things together. The Independents suffer. In a modern comedy of errors, the SARs
opened the season with a 14-13 victory over the fledgling KAs, but floundered to defeat in the following three games.
Jim Richardson added, "I guess too many of our boys are already studying for exams." Both were too stunned for
comment after the SAR victory over the Betas this Wednesday.

IMAC STANDINGS Through Wednesday's Games:
Phi Gam 4-0
Sigma Chi 3-0
Phi Delt 3-1
Kappa Sig 3-1
Pika 2-1
ATO 2-2
Sigma Nu 2-2
Beta 1-3
SAE 1-3
Sig Ep 0-3
Pi Kapp 0-4
Independents 0-4

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 13818 W. Morehead PIZZA

Our 55th Year Clothing for the pace Get in the swing in slacks and Swing Walkers and Surfers from our
store. Famous Brands Mooresville John Mack & Son setting traditionalist
