FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON ... IMAC REFS! _ PROMPT SQUAWKS x (See Page Five) e Ba rtiattt The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1967 (See Page Three) VOL. LVI NUMBER FOUR Trustee Seeks Student Ideas By BILL SEIGLER Associate Editor Complete representation of all legitimate opinions, especially student views, concerning the fraternity proposals was requested today by the man who will lead trustee discussion on the issue at their fall meeting next weekend. Harllee Branch, Jr., a member of the Class of ‘27 who became a trustee in 1961, is chairman of the Trustee Campus and Social Life Committee which will make recommendations to the full board about the fraternity question. “We're going to try to get as much of a cross section of viewpoints as possible before making recommendations,” he said. Once these views are presented, “we will grapple with the question as objectively as we can. I hope that no constructive view fails to reach us." Branch said that although the members of his committee last spring “generally favored the proposed affiliation plan,” several questions were raised as to whether it was the best possible plan. They questioned whether “a program that compulsorily provided affiliation wouldn't be even worse than the present system,” he said. It was finally decided to delay action until fall, Branch explained, so “all interested groups on campus could give us the benefit of their views." Several members of the college administration have expressed confidence in Branch. Tom Covington, assistant director of the College Union and fraternity liaison officer, commented on Branch's broadmindedness on college issues. “He takes a global approach to student activities,” Covington said. “He's interested in the whole of campus life, from the campus fraternity situation to the Union and dormitories.” A Presbyterian elder, Branch received his law degree from Emory in 1931 and is currently president of the Southern Company. He is also a member of the board of directors of General Motors, U. S. Steel and several other major companies. While at Davidson, Branch was a member of Beta Theta Pi and was interested in activities ranging from the Student Council to basketball. He was editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and member of Omicron Delta Kappa. HARLLEE BRANCH . fraternity committee Faculty To Get Plan On Tuesday By JIM COOLEY Staff Writer A compromise solution to Davidson's fraternity affiliation dilemma has been drafted by the presidents of the college's 12 national fraternities and will be submitted to the faculty at its Tuesday afternoon meeting. The new proposal calls for an extended rush program for those not receiving bids during the formal rushing period. Trustees To Study Fraternity Proposal By BOB TRAVERS Associate Editor The Board of Trustees is scheduled to consider the total fraternity affiliation question and the curriculum revision question at their fall meetings next Thursday and Friday. “Just what they will decide nobody can say,” said an administration spokesman. The curriculum revision question has grown out of the work of the Blue Sky Committee and its various subcommittees which formed last fall. The committee as a whole issued a preliminary report on its work last spring. The Education Committee of the trustees met with the Blue Sky Committee two weeks ago so that the Education Committee will be able to brief the rest of the trustees when the question comes up before the full board, according to the spokesman. He termed it “probable” that the Education Committee will make recommendations for the consideration of the full board. No such recommendations have been made public, however. Action on the fraternity question was delayed at the last meeting of the board—in the spring—because the trustees wanted more time to consider the question. According to the original plan submitted by the fraternity presidents, each rushee would receive one of two types of invitations to social affiliation. With a type “A” bid, the rushee might become a permanent social affiliate or he might pledge the fraternity. The type “B” bid would offer social affiliation—but not necessarily on a permanent basis or at the fraternity of the rushee’s choice. At the end of two-month intervals, the holder of a type “B” bid would have the option of requesting another fraternity. The national secretaries of 10 Davidson fraternities drew up an alternate plan and presented it to the administration two weeks ago. This plan proposes an extended rush for rushees who do not receive regular bids. This week the fraternity presidents offered a compromise between their old plan and the nationals’ plan. The proposal was submitted to the faculty committee on the College Union, Fraternities and Social Life last Tuesday for their consideration before its presentation to the faculty as a whole. All 12 of the fraternities voted on and approved the proposal this week, several by a unanimous vote. Under the proposed solution, formal rush will take place the first week of secondSemester and will be basically like the February 1967 rush. Every rushee will receive six suggested date cards and will receive redates with at least two fraternities. Students who do not receive two redates will be provided with the idea of type "A" and "B" bids has been dropped. A rushee may accept either a bid to enter the fraternity as a pledge or an invitation to enter the program of extended rush, the crux of the new proposal. Only those rushees who do not receive a bid are to be eligible for entrance into the extended rush program. Those remaining unbid and expressing a desire to enter the extended rush program will be divided up among the fraternities by matching as closely as possible the preferences of the rushees with the preferences of the fraternity presidents. The invitations for extended rush are then to be issued at the same time as bids, and acceptance of the invitations are to be made in the same manner as acceptance of bids. Those rushees entering the extended rush program have (See COMPROMISE, Page 6).

Regulations Court, PAYING THE PRICE
Freshmen forgetting their traditional beanies and nametags have been paying for it this year. The Freshman suddenly strict after recent years’ laxness, has been doling out punishments to careless freshmen like these, who were required to spruce up the stands at Richardson Stadium. (Staff Photo By Weems).

Student Council To Poll Marrieds About Housing
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council decided Tuesday to send questionnaires to all married students at Davidson College to determine if there is a demand for the college to furnish them with more adequate housing. The questions concerned such things as living conditions, rent, difficulty of locating housing, convenience, and desirability of having new housing, possibly similar to the recently constructed faculty duplex. The questionnaire also asked if the student wives felt that enough campus activities were provided for them to occupy their spare time. Senior council member Mike May reported his conversation with several married students and said the consensus of these students was that the housing was “livable, but not very good.”

Bill Watson told the council he had arranged the first of a series of ‘practical symposia.’ It will be held Nov. 1, with Dr. Randall R. Kincaid, assistant professor of economics, leading a discussion on investments. Bruce Weihe was named chairman of a five-man committee which will conduct an investigation of the possibility of allowing girls in the dormitories during special weekends and possibly at other times. President Tom Earnhardt volunteered to head a committee to investigate the possibility of providing a better lighting system on campus. The council elected Danny Layman to the Library Committee.

Scholar Is Detained In India
Luigi Carlo Simonelli, the Richardson Scholar from India who has not yet arrived at Davidson, apparently will not come to the school this semester, according to group adviser Dr. John Kelton. Kelton said that Simonelli was having trouble in obtaining permission to take the funds necessary for the trip out of the country. Kelton said that his last letter before school started had expressed hope for obtaining the necessary permission. According to Kelton, Simonelli will apparently not arrive on campus this semester. However, Kelton is hopeful that he will be able to come for the second semester.

Revision Group Pares Constitution
The Constitution Revision Committee moved toward a decisively shorter and more general student constitution in its meeting Thursday night. The committee agreed that major sections of the summer draft of the new constitution should be transferred to the by-laws, in order to leave the new student government more room for adaptation.

Up ‘n’ Coming
Saturday, October 7
2 p.m. Football Richardson Field Davidson vs. Richmond
7:30 p.m. Informal Vesper Service Morrison Room Lingle Chapel
Sunday, October 8
7:30 p.m. Cross Country Sacred Heart-Sullins Mixer Soccer Field Davidson, UNC-C, Western Carolina
Monday, October 9
4:30 p.m. Soccer Davidson vs. N. C. Wesleyan
8 p.m. Movie “The Game is Over” Morrison Room
Tuesday, October 10
3 p.m. Soccer Davidson vs. N. C. Wesleyan
8 p.m. Movie “The Game is Over” Morrison Room
Wednesday, October 11
10:20 a.m. Freshman Chapel Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Movie “The Game is Over” Morrison Room
Thursday, October 12
All day Trustees’ Meeting College Union

Support, Approval Needed For Residence Hall Council
The proposed Residence Hall Council is in an apparent state of limbo. Faculty approval and formal Student Council approval are necessary before the council can be elected. The Board of Trustees, however, gave the constitution of the council an informal approval last spring. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, said Wednesday she hoped that approval would be forthcoming and that the council would be organized shortly. The purpose of the council is to strengthen or replace the Student Regulations Board of the Student Council and to provide more effective dormitory government. If the council is created in fact, it will be composed of nine or 10 students. A president and a vice president will be elected along with representatives from each dorm. Belk, the largest dormitory on campus, will be allotted two representatives. Under the Residence Hall Council constitution, each floor of each dorm will elect a member to serve on special dorm committees. As an example, one committee might plan special activities for its dorm, such as discussion groups. In addition, elected representatives will serve as an advisory board for matters involving violations of house regulations. The council might consider and lobby for the construction of study rooms and dorm reception rooms. At present, only Belk, Richardson, and Little dorms have any sort of rooms where dates or visitors may enter. There has been speculation that the Residence Hall Council might formulate plans for having open dorms at specified times at which women might be entertained in dorm rooms.