Press Undoes Hoopsters For Poor Vacation Mark
By YATES FAISON
Assistant Sports Editor

An Analysis and Review

Several weeks ago a battle-tested core of Wolverines with 11 minutes to prevent a wipe-out frantically hastened together a sticky, double-teaming full-court press and down went the ‘Cats. And despite the efforts of Coach Lefty Driesell to combat this illness, not much has gone right ever since. Getting the lead has not since been the problem for the Legions. It has just been a matter of time. In numerous instances, 30 minutes of good ball was short-circuited by 10 of hesitancy and indecision. Since the VMI game of Dec. 13, four of the Wildcats’ five losses could and should have been victories.

TIGERS TOO TOUGH

First it was giant-killing Princeton. Although the ‘Cats made a prolonged attempt at the end of the first half and the start of the second to get back in the ball game, here was perhaps the only game the Wildcats should have dropped. Outshot, outrebounded, out-hustled and outplayed, Davidson found itself down by as much as 18 points after a John Haarlow jumper with 6:33 left in the first half made it 35-17. The Wildcats managed to close the halftime gap to 41-32 with a 15-6 spurt led by newly found Mike O'Neill, who canned four straight jumpers after being inserted into the lineup for Tom Youngdale. With Wayne Huckel waging an assault against the Coliseum floor to come up with the ball and O'Neill endearing himself to the fans with another two straight from the outside, the ‘Cats closed to within two points of the Tigers at 53-51, but here the difference became plain. The necessary ingredient was poise and the Ivy Leaguers had as much as or more than the Wildcats proved they lacked. The first-half nightmare materialized once more and before long, lonely Princeton fans were yelling, "Go for 30." The clock was merciful. Had it run longer, it would have probably been worse than 91-68. Ed Hummer led the scoring for Princeton with 21, while Huckel's 17 and O'Neill's 16 spearheaded the Wildcats. It was the worst beating the ‘Cats have taken since rubbing elbows with national champion Cincinnati four years ago. But it is no disgrace to lose to a team that has since beaten North Carolina and almost defeated Louisville without Hummer. “I don't know,” said Driesell after the game, “if they are that good or we are that bad.” Carolina will tell you.

WASHED BY WAVE

After that though, the Wildcat confidence was to prove obliterated when they needed it. Rolling to an early 26-17 lead over Tulane’s Green Wave, the ‘Cats met their now-famous anesthetic—the press—and most of 21 turnovers later, there was solemnity in the Davidson dressing room after a 93-89 loss. With seven minutes to go in the half, three straight traveling violations helped Tulane to a 35-32 margin, and at the half the Green Wave led by 53-50 against Driesell’s defense-minded Wildcats. With Youngdale, who totaled 25, and Huckel providing a hot hand, the Wildcats surged to a 62-54 lead to start the second half but, as they did many times, frittered away the lead, culminated by Bob Spurck’s jumper to make it 74-all with 7:29 to go. The rest of the game was a see-saw ride, with two foul shots each by sophomores Terry Habig and Johnny Arthurs the killing blows. Once again the Wildcats succumbed to the pressures of a close game and a noisy gym, although they were playing against a team well-acquainted with losing. Too much pressure, too little experience and a game of dominoes proved the Wildcats’ undoing once they returned to the once friendly confines of the Charlotte Coliseum. Lightly-regarded but senior-stocked George Washington refused to fall to the pressure of a consistently changing lead and dealt the ‘Cats their third straight blow, 59-54.

HUCKEL HALTED

The Colonials employed unexpected maneuvers both offensively and defensively. Coach Babe McCarthy, who has been known for years as a master strategist, made use of the Domino offense, which he discovered several years ago at Mississippi State, whereby the smaller Colonials spread out over the floor in an attempt to isolate five one-on-one set-ups. Even more shocking was the way the GW defense allowed Huckel only one errant field goal attempt and a total of a measly two points before he fouled out with 9:21 remaining. The final blow was struck by Dick Ellis, whose 18-footer with 22 seconds remaining sent the Wildcats to defeat land again. But the real hero for victory-starved GW was 5-8 Joe Lalli, who set up the offense comparable to football's single-wing and ran rings around the ‘Cat defenders to the tune of 16 points and numerous assists. After Ellis’ swisher, the Wildcats brought the ball up and called time with 17 seconds to play. But the Colonials’ stiff defense prevented the back-courters from getting the ball into shooting range, and Dave Moser had to call another rest interval at 5 seconds. A desperation turn-around shot by Scott Sinnock at the buzzer was hurried and wide and for the second straight game, the opposing coach was hoisted on his delirious team's shoulders. The Colonials, whose 53.9 percent topped the Wildcats’ 45, were paced by senior Terry Grefe’s 24 points. Rod Knowles led the ‘Cats with a mere 15, although he fouled out with 11:44 left. The Wildcats managed only 18 of 28 foul shots for 64.3 percent, while GW managed 13 of 16—81.3 percent—from the charity stripe.

LOST LEAD

Tournament time, and Davidson's first-round foe, Maryland, was picked as the team to beat. Once again the ‘Cats had it in the bag with a 42-32 lead with 10:30 to go and a 52-41 margin after Huckel’s jumper at 7:30. But Maryland had scouted the Wildcats, and the press was on. The ‘Cats managed just three points in the next five-and-a-half minutes, finding themselves down 59-55 with two minutes to play. And although the Wildcats only lost 86-65, they trailed 65-59 after a Julius Johnson free throw with 22 seconds left. The ‘Cats scored six, but Joe Harrington had sunk a free throw with 8 seconds left, and despite the scoring efforts of Mike Spann, O'Neill and Youngdale, it was another one-point loss. The ‘Cats were held to 36 shots as opposed to 50 by Maryland's reputedly deliberate shooters. Huckel again led all scorers with 22, scoring on seven of eight from the floor and eight of nine from the line. The ‘Cats hit 63.6 percent from outside but committed 21 turnovers. Things just had not jelled, and so Driesell decided to remove Youngdale and Sinnock for Spann and O'Neill in an effort to revamp the speed and shooting confidence of the team. So O'Neill hit 14 in the first half against Fordham and 19 for the game and Spann contributed fine defense and board work in a 74-60 win. With a large size assist from Knowles, who unlimbered for 25 points and 23 rebounds although the ‘Cats had trouble feeding him, Davidson finally shot down another opponent in some fashion of finesse. Although committing 16 turnovers, the press was not quite as bothersome. The ‘Cats were still bothered by one of their season bugaboos—not blocking out on the boards but they exhibited a better defense overall. Just this time the ‘Cats’ meow had turned into a more sinister sound.

‘CATS CLAW CAVS

And then there was Charlottesville on a night when spectators were few and far between. Huckel made sure that they were not to relish missing the Orange Bowl to pull for the Cavaliers. And for the first time this season, the Wildcats were up to the challenge of a tight game with a 75-71 victory. Some of the success the ‘Cats had with Virginia can be attributed to the Cavs’ poor shooting (32 percent), but a great deal of credit has to go to their resolution not to blow their slim lead. Huckel’s 30 points, 20 coming in the first half, led the way for the Wildcats. Chip Case pumped in 22, pacing the ice-veined but icy shooting Cavaliers. Richmond's cow barn provided the final stopping place before tomorrow's clash for the Wildcats. But back to old tricks. Except this time there were fewer turnovers and colder shooters. And a lot of the trouble came when Dave Moser and Huckel fouled out with over four minutes to play. The ‘Cats had a chance to win it when Bob Pickens and Spann combined for a steal with 22 seconds to go and one point down. But Youngdale’s jumper missed and Knowles’ follow was disallowed in favor of a pushing foul, which Tom Green made good on for a 72-69 final score. Johnny Moates gunned for 35 points for the victorious Spiders, while Knowles led the ‘Cats with 21. The Wildcats were successful on only 40 percent of their shots. It was simply a case of too many turnovers, not enough shots and board lapses that did the ‘Cats in. All should improve with age.

Sigs Continue Domination

The undefeated Kappa Sigs continued to rumble by their opposition in fine fashion by “Pistol Pete” Ort popped in 16 while Tucker Laxton scored 12. Joe Jelks contributed eight. For the vanquished E's, K. D. Weeks and Pits Armfield tallied 10 and eight points, respectively. Again Ort was the high scorer and rebounder with 16 points in just three quarters of play against the Pikas. All the Sigs scored in the rout. The Pikas were led by Tommy “Rube” Poston and John “Bubba Kill” Croom with 12 and 11 points. The E's rebounded magnificently from their earlier defeat to beat the Independents. Gresh Bayne and Weeks helped the E's keep their cool with 12 points apiece. Bruce Weidner had 12 for the Indies. The ATO’s bombed the Phi Gams, 60-38. Super-Cecil Clifton stuffed in 16 points while Dave Jennings had 11. Bill Clark had nine along with Geoff Birkhead. Dan Sweet and David King contributed 10 and eight. The Taus won by forfeit of the Pi Kapps last night. All was not lost for the Fijis as they downed the previously undefeated Phi Delts, 56-49, last night. Doug Rhymes had 17 points while Rich Graham contributed 14. For the disappointed Delts, Cliff Dukeand Hatchetman Dave Fagg had 16 and 13. The KA’s rolled by the Pi Kapps, 49-32, as Rick Harrell led the victors with 14 points. Kirk Reed had nine. Bill Walker and Charlie Taylor banked in 10 and six points for the losers. To the SPE’s belonged the dubious distinction of losing by the biggest margin of the week: 73-37 to the Sigma Chis. Geordie Mueller’s 22 points and Joe Williamson's 17 were high for the Machfs. Hard-luck Fletcher Hartsell got 20 points for the winless SPE's. Pfugner was not a scoring leader, he received widespread acclaim for his defensive job on Harvey Jackson. Although Jeff scored 92 points in the last three games.

Sinnock Quits Cagers Again

Scott Sinnock, a 6-4 sophomore from New Castle, Ind., announced New Year's Eve that for personal reasons he was quitting basketball and dropping out of school. The slender wingman had started every game this season for Davidson until Mike O'Neill replaced him in a lineup shuffle initiated in the consolation game of the Charlotte Invitational.

It was the second time in 13 months that Sinnock has withdrawn from school. He left Davidson in November 1965, for unknown reasons, but reconsidered and returned to summer school, making the grade necessary to restore his basketball eligibility. For a very young team, which had seen four members of last year’s squad drop basketball before the season started, Sinnock was a dangerous outside scoring threat. In games just before the tournament, however, his production had slackened. Both he and Tom Youngdale were sent to the bench last Thursday against Fordham, a game won by the revamped Wildcats, 74-60.

In a prepared statement issued Saturday, Sinnock maintained that the benching had not influenced his decision, but did not elaborate on his reasons for withdrawing or on his future plans. Coach Lefty Driesell indicated that “I am sorry to see Scott leave, but I wish him luck in the future. Certainly the team will miss his presence.”

CONFERENCE INDIVIDUAL SCORERS
Scorer Pts. Avg.
Lawrence, Fur 185 23.1
Reaser, WVU 183 22.9
Moates, Rich 155 22.1
Green, Rich 150 21.4
Williams, WVU 164 20.5
Webster, Fur 138 17.4
Head, WVU 138 17.3
Huckel, Dav 186 16.9
Kemper, VMI 141 16.4
Panneton, W&M 162 16.2

Tough Matmen To Host

Davidson's grapplers host St. Andrews at 2 p.m. Thursday in their first home match of the season. On the road this year the ‘Cats have compiled a 2-1 record, including surprising wins over Duke and UNC, and a single loss to VMI. The wrestlers opened their season with a 21-18 win over a strong Duke team. In the 177-pound class, Kerry Keith tied the match with a pin before Lowell Bryan won by decision over his heavyweight opponent to ensure the win.

Against VMI Davidson suffered its only loss, 23-10. After Colin Hudson and Walter Reynolds grappled to a draw, captain Joe Buffington decisioned his opponent 11-0. Terry O'Hair, at 160, also wrestled to a draw before Kerry Keith beat Al Murphy by a score of 3-0 to end Davidson's scoring.

In their most recent match, the grapplers defeated UNC, 21-16, behind pins by Julian Prosser, Lowell Bryan and undefeated Joe Buffington, and decisions by Terry O'Hair, Colin Hudson and undefeated Kerry Keith. When asked to comment on the team, Coach Charles Parker said, “Our weakness is in the middle-weight classes.” He pointed out that Davidson had forfeited once in each of the 152, 145 and 137-pound weight classes in the first three matches and that “we have only eight of the nine men that are needed to wrestle.” He also added that he was very surprised at our first two wins and said that “we beat a real strong UNC team.” He further commented that “although we have only one man in each weight class, we will surprise a few of our future opponents.” About St. Andrews Parker said, “Their strength is in the 123 and 130-pound weight classes and in the heavyweight division.” He added that “the matches will become more difficult as the season progresses because East Carolina and NC State are always tough.”

SWAIN’S STEAK OLD Y% MILE EAST
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414
DELICIOUS FLAMING STEAKS
SUCCULENT SEAFOOD PLATTERS
Served with choice of baked or French Fried Potatoes, Gold Mine Salad and Garlic Roll

FLAMING STEAKS
COLISEUM SHOPPING CENTER
3714 EAST INDEPENDENCE BOULEVARD

The Davidsonian January 6, 1967 Page Five

Wildcats To Tackle C-Leading WVU
By TOM COOK
Sports Editor

Trying to get back on the winning track after a Tuesday night loss to Richmond, Davidson’s youthful Wildcats host strong West Virginia at the Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. Terry Holland’s undefeated Wildkittens will meet Gardner-Webb in the preliminary at 6:30 p.m.

Normally, tomorrow night's game would be the first of a two-game dogfight between the major Southern Conference cage powers for the top seeding in the family tournament in March, but this year's game matches the ‘Cats in the role of spoiler trying to knock off the league-leading Mountaineers. For Coach Lefty Driesell, this game is a must if his ‘Cats are to rebound into the title picture. “We want to win this game real bad. We have to win,” he emphasized.

With the 1966-67 season half over, the ‘Cats have only a 6-6 record, with three of the losses occurring over a disastrous holiday schedule. West Virginia comes to Charlotte without ace backcourt man Dave Palmer, whose troublesome knee must again undergo surgery. Junior Lewis Hale will become the number one reserve in the backcourt. Starting at the forwards for the charges of Coach Bucky Walters, who left Duke before Vic Bubas could suspend him, will be Dave Reaser, who scored 92 points in the three games West Virginia played in the Far West Classic, and Carl Head, the junior college All-American who is averaging 17.3 points per game this year. Starting at the guards will be All-Southern returnee Ron Williams, who is fifth in conference scoring with a 20.5 average, and Norman Holmes. The center is 6-8 Bob Benfield.

West Virginia will be seeking revenge for a humiliating 105-79 defeat in regular season play and an 80-69 defeat in the finals of the Southern Conference tournament last year. Thus far this year, the Mounties have compiled a 6-2 record with wins over East Carolina, William and Mary, VMI, Illinois, Richmond and Minnesota, and losses to Washington State and St. Louis.

Tomey Quits DC For Kansas Post

After two years in the Wildcat football program, assistant coach Dick Tomey will leave Davidson this week for a coaching position at the University of Kansas. “Coach Tomey has been a key man in our football program," said Head Coach Homer Smith. “Dick is an ambitious young football man whose willingness to move will help him.”

“Kansas is trying to rebuild in a strong Big Eight Conference,” Tomey said, “and I hope to be of help in this endeavor.”

A graduate of Depauw University, Tomey was a graduate assistant to the freshman football coach at Northern Illinois before coming to Davidson.

CHARCOAL HOUSE
DEINE OF COLISEUM
RON WILLIAMS
CARL HEAD

’Cats Meet Dogs, Tech Next Week
By DON SEWELL
Sports Writer

After tomorrow night’s clash with West Virginia, Lefty Driesell’s Wildcats face two opponents next week in their last contests before the long exam layoff period. The Citadel hosts Davidson in a Southern Conference tilt Tuesday night while Virginia Tech invades Charlotte Friday night for the second time this season to meet the Wildcats.

The Citadel, although only 3-6 overall, is undefeated in conference play, having posted a win over George Washington in December. In their latest outing, the Bulldogs fell to Georgia Southern, 79-78, Wednesday evening.

The Wildcat defense, second in the conference, will be challenged by the ‘Dogs second-ranked offense. The Citadel has averaged 80 points per game while Davidson has given up only an average of 71 ppg. Dan Mohr, Citadel's 6-7 center, is a sharpshooter and a problem under the boards. Al Kroboth, a sophomore forward, is a scrappy rebounder who also stands in the top 10 free throw shooters in the conference. John DeBrosse is the Bulldog threat from the outside. The 5-10 guard also drives for the basket frequently. Doug Bridges, one of the scoring leaders last season, gives the Citadel's squad added strength at a forward slot.

Then, returning to the home hardwoods of the Coliseum, the ‘Cats go against VPI's tough team. The Gobblers opened everyone’s eyes with their season-opening win over Duke in Charlotte. Since that game, Tech has extended its record to 6-2 with wins over Purdue, Eastern Kentucky, Richmond, Penn State and William and Mary. Their losses have been at the hands of Wake Forest and Florida.

Leading the Gobblers so far this season has been Glenn Combs. A guard who shoots from the outside, Combs is VPI's scrambler. His 23-point average is tops for the Gobblers. Ron Perry follows Combs in scoring with a 15-point per game average, but his contribution to VPI lies largely in his rebounding. Only 6-3, Perry combines clever moves and long arms to be effective under the boards. Chris Ellis, a sophomore guard, handles the ball well and adds a scoring threat from the outside. Ted Ware, Ken Talley and Don Brown will probably share the remaining center and forward positions.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

SHIRT SALE
$3.39 $4.39
Our 55th Year
Our Greatest
Pure Finish and Wash ’n Wear
Whites
Solid Colors
Stripes
Reg. $5.00 Van Heusen
3 for $10.00
Reg. $7.00 and $7.50 Sero
Hurry, before sizes get gone.
Clothing for the Pace-setting Traditionalist
John Meck & Son