@he Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second-class mail at Davidson, N.C.

Sam Boyte Editor-in-Chief
Bill Watson Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1967

Council Initiative

The Student Council is making one of its wiser moves in putting pressure on the college to get started on the Blue Sky curriculum revision. Few things are harder to fight than the sincere statements of a college administration that says it desires to improve but cannot. The trustees’ statement last week that they did not see any financial way to start the Blue Sky program seems to be just that. When someone bends over backward at least in speech to help, it is hard to tell them that they would be doing more good by leaning forward into the job.

The Student Council's plan to submit to Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston a list of innovations that it believes should be undertaken immediately is one good way to get around avoiding the appearance of biting the hands that feed. Instead of simply calling names or condemning the trustees, the council will at least keep attention focused on the curriculum proposals. The value in such discussion will be in preventing the death by neglect of the Blue Sky proposals. In view of the secrecy which has shrouded the work of the Blue Sky Committee ever since its beginning, such a death could be quite likely. Despite all of the ballyhoo about the increasingly important role of the student in the deciding of the college's future, the key issue of curriculum revision has remained secret not only from students but also from the faculty for most of the last year by Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston.

Perhaps Dean Johnston's secrecy and the hesitation of the trustees are all part of Davidson's love for the dramatic. Although it may not be very beneficial to education, the vision of back-room lobbying that leads to the announcement of a great new day for the Davidson curriculum is certainly as theatrical as the “Decade of Destiny” image. The only problem here is that curriculum revision is not the same thing as fund-raising. Creativity is more important than dramatics. Of course, avoiding discussion of the Blue Sky proposals does allow the trustees to go on without confronting the very real changes in educational philosophy that are inherent in the Blue Sky program. Of course, if the trustees do not want to face up to anything more revolutionary than new buildings, their hesitation and the Blue Sky's secrecy is understandable. If the Student Council does not let its efforts be sidetracked, we may soon have some sort of answer to the question about just how open to progressive change the trustees really are.

International Flavor

Members of the college community who have noted the benefits of having students from throughout the world here for a year under the auspices of the Richardson Scholar Program received a jolt when it was learned this week that the Richardson Foundation plans to withdraw its support of the program in the near future. To lose the international flavor provided by these students would hurt Davidson greatly. The most obvious benefit that American students receive from Richardson Scholars is simply that of being able to associate with people from parts of the world other than their own, to discuss issues of worldwide importance frankly and openly with students from different national perspectives, and to learn more about other countries and the problems facing them. But it is just as important that these foreign students are exposed to a United States that they can actually see and touch, not one they have to learn about through movies and magazines.

Ecuadorian Fred Ehlers, a Richardson Scholar in 1964, told of the situation existing in many countries. “The United States sends foreign aid to South American ports every year. People see the boxes stamped ‘USA’, but they do not see the faces, and they ask, ‘Who are the Americans?’” Besides broadening the outlook of students at Davidson, the Richardson Scholarship program enables the Scholars to learn who these Americans are. One direct outgrowth of the Richardson program was the beginning of the Project of the Americas by Ehlers while he was here. PRAM is intended to remedy the very lack of understanding that Ehlers noted. Last year one English Scholar was instrumental in organizing Project Opportunity in Charlotte to help underprivileged children. One Japanese student took the lead in carrying out a “Japanese Night” at the College Union in which students became acquainted with Japanese customs and traditions. Scholars also give an international flair to sports. Often in the past, Scholars have participated widely in soccer; this year there is a Scholar who is leading the soccer team in scoring and another Scholar who is expected to play a great deal of varsity tennis this year. The benefits of the program range from the athletic and political to the dramatic and artistic. To deprive the students of these benefits is to deprive them of considerable international exposure and experience. PRAM alone would have made the entire years of the Richardson program worthwhile, but there are many other benefits to be enjoyed by the college community. We sincerely hope that these benefits do not cease.

DISSENT

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

To: Open House

Dear Davidsonian,

There was a time when Davidson students had nowhere to go and nothing to do and every Sunday night all faculty and administration houses were open to the student body. As the twentieth century crept slowly into the Piedmont of North Carolina, many of Davidson’s former traditions were uprooted, but fortunately, the practice of Open House did not fall prey to the depersonalized education that became the rule rather than the exception on American campuses. It still continues, although in an admittedly diminished form, and each Sunday night the host walks from 8 to 10.

While granting that the atmosphere at open houses may be artificial, it is often far freer than that between a professor and his students in the classroom, and discussions can be held on subjects that ordinarily would not arise in the refurbished, but still institutional, halls of Chambers. This Sunday, for the first time this year, there is a fairly large number of professors participating in the Open House program. It behooves Davidson Gentlemen who are at all interested in the continuation of the program to visit those open houses. Students should have no trouble finding the professors’ homes. There is a faculty-administration directory in the Union or by simply asking other students one can find out where professors live. If all else fails, you can get out the next house you come to after you leave the campus, for in a small town like Davidson everyone knows everything about everybody. If by attending an open house the student gives up an evening watching TV, studying in the library, or gaining pleasure in the Queen City of the South, the professor sometimes puts through a great deal more. As one professor put it, “Besides the inevitable few who come for the refreshments, I get the students who are people I’ve never seen before who are trying to see if I’m for real. Another group comes to try to build up its grade and say the same things again and again, and the others start a serious discussion. It’s 11:7.”

As Alfred North Whitehead said, education is of no use to us until our textbooks are turned and we have forgotten all of the embracing we have over learned. Hopefully, Davidson Open House constitutes that more lasting education of the whole man. By giving continued support to the Open House program, students will uphold a tradition which can be an integral part of four years of more live, the “Davidson Experience.”

DON HOYT ‘7
Davidson College

Wake Forest Ponders Student Rights Proposal

A proposed student bill of rights is receiving serious attention from administrators and faculty at Wake Forest University according to the student newspaper, The Old Gold and Black. The statement of rights, termed “a unique attempt to outline the rights and freedoms of students,” was developed by ten national educational organizations representing administrators, faculty, and students. Among the principles it enunciates are:

— Educational institutions should admit any students meeting established standards. Protection should be provided against “prejudices of capricious academic evaluation.”
— Student organizations should have freedoms of opinion and orderly action. They should be free to invite speakers of their choosing.
— Student publications should be free and uncensored.
— Students should be free to organize, even when their groups are affiliated with outside organizations.
— Student individuals and groups should have definite meaning to participate in the school’s policy matters.

YES, BY HELPING The Town Day we Can REMAIN HOLY and BE Gentle

Persuasion Is Better Than Shocking

ED. NOTE: This is the third of a series of four articles excerpted by permission of Random House Inc. from The Arrogance of Power, by U.S. Senator J. William Fulbright, D-Ark., Copyright, 1966, by the author.

The wisdom and productivity of the protest movement of students, professors, clergy, and others may well be questioned, but their courage, decency, and patriotism cannot be doubted. At the very least, the student protest movement of the sixties is a moral and intellectual improvement on the panty raids of the fifties. In fact, it is a great deal more: it is an expression of the national conscience and a manifestation of traditional American idealism. As one university publication characterized it, the “new radical movement” is not shallow and sophomoric. It is not based on the traditional formula of generational defiance, and it is not the result of an infusion of foreign ideologies. It is based instead on...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

"permanent discontent and the feeling of disloyalty that they must repudiate an outmoded vision of society and replace it with a purer one.” No student generation in recent history has faced both greater possibilities and greater short-term uncertainties than the present one. The bright possibilities are those afforded by a prosperous and dynamic America; the uncertainties are those of a cruel and costly war in Asia, a war which has already taken thousands of American lives, a war whose end is not in sight, a war which may indeed grow larger in scope and destructiveness. The central issue in the debate here at home — the issue on which all other questions turn — is whether the sacrifices imposed on the present generation of young Americans are justified by the stakes of the war, whether the diversion of hundreds of thousands of our young men from their homes and jobs and families will yield rewards of freedom and security commensurate with their sacrifices. It is one of life's injustices that young men must fight the wars that older men begin. To a great extent, therefore, the lives and hopes of the present student generation turn on the wisdom and judgment of the men of an older generation to whom the people have entrusted political power. Surely, considering what they themselves have at stake, it is not improper for young people to question the wisdom and judgment of the makers of our foreign policy. Surely it is the right of citizens in a democracy, especially citizens of military age, to ascertain that the great decisions of war and peace are made with care and deliberation. The calling of public men to account unquestionably adds to their burdens, but the convenience of policy-makers is not sufficient reason for the shutting down of public discussion. The responsibilities of high office are burdensome indeed, but they are borne, let it be remembered, by men who sought or freely accepted them, men who accepted not only the obligation to use power but the obligation to account for its use as well. When former Press Secretary Bill Moyers reported with respect to the Vietnam protests the President's “surprise that any one citizen would feel toward his country in a way that is not consistent with the national interest,” he was denying the existence of a question as to where, in fact, the national interest lies. The answer, one must concede, is elusive, but there is indeed a question and it is a sign of the good health of this nation that the question is being widely and clearly posed. With due respect for the honesty and patriotism of the student demonstrations, I would offer a word of caution to the young people who have organized and participated in them. As most politicians discover sooner or later, the most dramatic expression of grievances is not necessarily the most effective. That would seem to be especially true in the United States, a country easily and excessively alarmed by expressions of dissent. We are, for better or worse, an essentially conservative society; in such a society soft words are likely to carry more weight than harsh words and the most effective dissent is dissent expressed in an orderly, which is to say a conservative manner. For these reasons such direct action as the burning of draft cards probably does more to retard than to advance the views of those who take such action. The burning of a draft card is a symbolic act, really a form of expression rather than of action, and it is stupid and vindictive to punish it as a crime. But it is also an unwise act, both because it is shocking rather than persuasive to most Americans and because it exposes the individual to personal risk without political reward. The student, like the politician, must consider not only how to say what he means but also how to say it persuasively. The answer, I think, is that to speak persuasively one must speak in the idiom of the society in which one lives. The form of protest that might be rewarding in Paris or Rome, to say nothing of Saigon or Santo Domingo, might be absolutely disastrous in Washington. Frustrating though it may seem to some Americans, it is nonetheless a fact that, in America, the messages that get through are those that are sent through channels, through the slow, cumbersome institutional channels devised by the founding fathers in 1787. The good order and democracy of our society therefore depend on the keeping open of these channels. As long as every tendency of opinion can get a full and respectful hearing from the elected representatives of the people, as long as the classroom from primary school to graduate school is a place where freedom of thought is welcomed and encouraged, the teach-ins and the draft-card burnings and the demonstrations are unlikely to become the principal forms of dissent in America. It is only when the Congress fails to challenge the Executive, when the opposition fails to oppose, when politicians join in spurious consensus behind controversial policies, and when institutions of learning sacrifice traditional functions for the short-term advantages of association with the government in power, that the campuses and streets and public squares of America are likely to become the forums of a direct and disorderly democracy.

By HEYWARD CARTER
Associate Editor

A VW in The Indianapolis 500

Now that the ‘Cats have managed to make it halfway through the football season, it may be a good time to look around and see how they've been doing and especially to look ahead to see what they may have to face in the next few years. The record at mid-season is not bad for a small Southern Conference football team. For Davidson, it is the same old kind of record we've been having since any of us have been around. The excuses, too, are all the same: you just can't win 'em all, what do you expect of a team from a school with only 1000 boys; there are not enough athletic scholarships, academic standards are too high at Davidson to let many top football players in; etc. etc. etc. And they are all true—we can't win them all, as has been shown every year for the past twenty or so. There is not a very big student pool for the team to draw from. The athletic department is limited in the number of scholarships it has, and thus it is forced to further limit the ones that go to football players. Most good football players can't get into Davidson because of its standards, and many of the ones who can choose not to come because of the academic load they'll have to carry in addition to their football career for the next four years. Every excuse makes sense in explaining why we just never quite seem to make the football big-time, even in the Southern Conference. But now rumor has it that instead of being content to rest on our comfortable, if not lofty, post as the bourgeoisie of the Southern Conference, the Davidson College Wildcats are, to borrow a much-used phrase, EXPANDING! To me this makes less than little sense. For some time now both student and faculty have been discussing the possibilities of the de-emphasis of football. The subject, in fact, is probably the second most beaten-to-death topic (next to drinking regulations) on campus. Now, it seems, the athletic powers have finally come up with a solution both to our traditional mediocrity and to the problem of whether we should back down a little from our present football pretensions or should keep the status quo. The answer they give is apparently for us to take on even bigger and better teams. We are not content to lose to Richmond and Furman—we want to go big time with teams like Virginia and Vanderbilt. As one faculty member pointed out recently, it's like entering a Volkswagen in the Indianapolis 500—we just don't have the machine for it. If we have such a hard time keeping up with the competition where we are, we're sure to be left in the dust when we graduate ourselves to the big boys, if we have the same kind of team we are used to having. Wherein, possibly, lies the athletic department's answer: expand the whole football program from the number of scholarships on up. With the “new look” in scheduling it is either this or losing consistently. If a bigger, stronger team is proposed, based on more athletic scholarships for the football department, as it seems it will have to be, it appears evident that something at Davidson, academically speaking, has got to give. I can't see that increasing the number of scholarships to a number large enough to allow us to compete equally with schools of the caliber of East Carolina and, possibly, Virginia and the like could help but harm Davidson academically in the long run. I don’t mean that standards would be lowered as a whole, but unless we want to start a tradition of football flunk-outs, some pressure could eventually be brought on professors (a possibility about which many of the faculty is now concerned), or perhaps a P.E. major would be adopted for those who couldn't make it any other way—the possibilities are limitless, but none of them are very attractive. The point is, who needs it? Why can’t we at least leave football at Davidson where it is, if not actually de-emphasize it, instead of pushing it even harder than before? If we want glory, let's stick to a top basketball program, which is easier to carry out with a student body and athletic budget the size of ours. To increase our football department and scope would only increase our football and athletic headaches—and God knows we've got enough already."