Page Six The Davidsonian April 21, 1937

Students Challenge Marketplace Ethics

Five Davidson students led by one recent labor picket explored the morality of business at the first annual College Business
Forum held in Charlotte yesterday morning.

According to a Charlotte News estimate, 29 students appeared. Before the moderator hustled the participants off to lunch to continue
the discussions on a more personal level, Ward was answered by an elderly businessman that the protest was an example
of students meddling in none of their business and by a young college professor that it was an example of
true concern over poor labor conditions in the textile mill protest.

The program was organized into two panels with question sessions after each and a luncheon to wind up the whole
affair. Davidson Professor Dr. E. F. Patterson was a member of the second panel, which discussed the responsibilities of business
and education to each other and the question of government controls over business and education.

Davidson senior E. R. (Buzz) Hardin asked the panel to consider ways in which business could counter what he saw
as an anti-capitalist, anti-business movement on campuses such as his own. College personnel recruiters state that projects such as the
forum are performing this purpose according to panel members.

The group next took on the assertion of another Davidson senior, Charles Vick, that communications between business and labor are
on a corporate instead of a personal nature, thereby leading to a lack of understanding. His answer came in the
form of several recitations of personal stories about contacts with labor by business representatives on the panel.

Then Davidson Richardson Scholar Roger Ward, who was primarily responsible for getting the Davidson delegation together for the program and
who recently participated in a protest against the labor policies of the J. P. Stevens textile mills, took the floor.
Ward charged that the businessmen represented “the old useless generation of the ‘self-made man.’ They fail miserably to realize that
there is not equal opportunity in this world, and that it is the role of the government to create this.”
He concluded by asking for reactions to the Chamber of Commerce program from the four Charlotte area colleges.

(Staff Photos by Olson)
FAST HANDS AND THE WINNAH!
Anderson (R) Receives Boyte’s Congratulations

Dunn Talks On Vietnam At Davidsonian Banquet

“I do not know why we are in Vietnam,” said J.A.C. Dunn, reporter for The Charlotte Observer Tuesday at the
annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet in the Wildcat Room. Presented at the same time was the David Grier Martin Award for the
outstanding beginning reporter.

In recognition of his notable writing this year, Franklin Anderson received the award from Sam Boyte, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Anderson, who is now assistant managing editor, has written many articles, including the coverage of the ban on the playing
of ‘Dixie’ at football games this year which received recognition in several area newspapers.

“You always forget what Vietnam looks like—how big it is... and how small it is,” said Dunn as he began
by passing around a map of the country. Making his own position clear, he explained, “I don't know if we
are winning. I don't know whether we can win. I personally am neither for nor against the war in Vietnam.”

Dunn said that a judgment cannot be made because the war is “too big for one human brain to comprehend.”
The people of Vietnam are aware of 500,000 people “either killing or building,” but they are unable to grasp it.

One of the distinguishing characteristics of the war in Vietnam is the lack of a front line. “You can walk
the length of the country and live, or step out on your doorstep and die,” Dunn remarked.

Of the 400-odd correspondents in Vietnam, approximately one-fourth leave Saigon. “People who go somewhere else do not travel by road.
If you travel, you travel by plane.” An accredited correspondent can travel anywhere by plane without paying fare. Those who
do not travel “sit there in Saigon and take the handouts,” which is the reason for the preponderance of Saigon
datelines.

The military briefing session, known as the “five o'clock follies,” is always well attended. At the “follies,” the briefer speaks
very rapidly. The reporter’s game is “get the briefer,” Dunn said. “Game, set, and match is when you trap the
briefer into telling you how many people were killed.” According to Dunn, the only reliable casualty data is that “people
are killed and wounded.”

The press is well treated by the military, and briefings with General Westmoreland or Ambassador Lodge are secured with little
difficulty. “When you want a briefing with the CIA, it’s a lot harder,” Dunn added.

There is no censorship by the military or the Vietnamese on outgoing material, but the local press and the incoming
mail are censored, Dunn noted. “They care what you write, but they don't show it.”

High Spirits At Hattie’s Cause $150 Damage

Davidson students were responsible for $150 damage as approximately 300 turned out for the traditional Thursday night-before Spring Frolics celebration
at Hattie’s on April 13. Proprietress Hattie Morgan reported that the students broke a neon sign, smashed several windows, pulled
down a fence, and knocked holes in the ceiling of the popular beer outlet. With her beer license up for
renewal soon, she was disturbed by the possibility that the incident might place that renewal in jeopardy.

A complaint was issued by her with Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, but as yet no other complaints have
been filed with the dean's office or with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in Charlotte.

In an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN Burts stated that the administration did not plan to take any action concerning the
incident. He did express the opinion that the students’ action demonstrated that they were not aware of the delicate conditions
under which a beer license is issued. He further commented that the student behavior was a bad reflection upon the
school.

Student Body President Tom Earnhardt and several other campus leaders circulated a leaflet early last week informing students of the
aggravated situation and calling for more responsible student behavior. Earnhardt was out of town, however, and could not be reached
for further comment.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
EDWARD DWELLE
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ED EMBREE
ROBBIE HOOKER

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
BOB REID

Assistant Sports Editors:
DON SEWELL
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
GUNNAR MAGNUS

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
John Pancake, Athley Kline, Lewis Lavine, Mark Wingate, Ben Garrett, John Rowe, Chuck Green, Kenneth Hamilton, Jim Cooley, Gary Sigmon,
Joe Jones, Dan Graham, Brodie Brown, Heyward Whetsell, Allen Lewis, Carter Fussell, Woody Gleason, John Williams, Cliff Duke, and Ashton
Trice.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

Shinnock Mixes Wit, Wisdom

A Baltimore Colts’ linebacker had words of wit and wisdom for the student body in chapel Wednesday. Speaking on behalf
of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Don Shinnock offered personal testimony and thoughts to support his theme, Christ as truth.

“Why not give Christ some of your time?” he asked. “Think about Christ and do something with Him. Don't let
Him go out of ignorance.”

Shinnock balanced his remarks with not-so-serious ad libbing. He prefaced his talk with a test of reflexes with Dave Moser,
Davidson's guard and basketball play-maker. And later on, he...

Poet Stephen Spender To Appear In Chapel

British poet and editor Stephen Spender will read his poetry and speak in chapel in two appearances Tuesday and Wednesday.
Spender, whose visit here is being sponsored by Beta Theta Pi, will read his own poetry at Eu Hall at
9:30 p.m. Tuesday. The following day he will speak at chapel.

In addition to his writing, Spender is known as co-editor of the review Encounter. A triumvirate of poets, Spender, W.
H. Auden, and C. Day Lewis, all gained prominence...

Honoraries Initiate Members Wednesday

Two national honor societies held initiation ceremonies at Davidson on Wednesday.

The following students were initiated into Delta Phi Alpha, the national German honorary society: Pascal Gayle Batson, Harry B. Carr,
Robert M. Johnson, C. Lewis Lavine, Joe W. Peel, William E. Ramsey, Charles B. Skinner, and Richard L. Watkins.

J. Edward Beach, Robert N. Grady, Samuel B. Johnson, James O. May, Jr., George R. Pfitzner, James M. Reinoehl, William
M. Thomson, and William L. Watson.

Ralph W. Bowlin, Stephen H. Humphrey, Calvin N. Jones, Michael L. May, Randel E. Phillips, Terry M. Schroeder, and Robert
W. Travers.

Elected to honorary membership were: professors William P. Cumming, Joe O. Embry, Norman M. Johnson, Charles E. Lloyd, and Alexander
J. McKelway; and Richardson Scholar...Jurgen Schlunk. They were recognized for their contributions towards better relations between America and the German-speaking
peoples and for their keen interest in German cultural and political affairs.

Halt: Ralph W. Bowlin, Robert Henry Dugger III, Daniel Richard Gresham, Ted Graham Horne, F. Jordan Lang, and James A.
Wall, Jr. Faculty members are professors Arthur G. Griffin, Glenn C. Lindsey, Dr. Louis Nelson (faculty adviser), Ernest F. Patterson,
and Charles E. Ratliff, Jr. Officers of ODE are president, James H. Rostan; vice-president, Ted G. Horne; and secretary-treasurer, Glenn
C. Lindsey.

Following the initiation ceremony, there was a banquet in the Ney Room and an address by Dr. Ratliff on “Economic
Planning in Pakistan.” This year’s student project is a voluntary effort by the members to write a paper on “Economic
Development in the United States.” Dr. Ratliff's students in Pakistan requested this paper and they will send back a similar
paper which they will prepare. Copies will be available soon to Davidson students.

Students were selected on the basis of overall academic excellence, demonstrated proficiency in German, and continued interest in German culture.
N. C. Beta Chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon, economic honorary society, initiated the following persons at Philanthrop.

President To Receive Dorm Council Report

President D. Grier Martin will receive a briefing on the proposed Residence Hall Association Monday. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of
dormitories, will explain the functioning of the association to Martin at that time. The groundwork is being laid for the
inception of the dorm organization possibly by the opening of school next year. Approved this week by the Student Council,
the association’s constitution defines all students who reside in the residence halls as members of the association. These students will
elect a president in the spring when the Social Council president and president of the Student Union are elected.

The primary legislative body of the organization, the Residence Hall Council, will consist of representatives elected from each dorm. The
only change in existing dormitory regulations will be the addition of rules concerning the opening of dormitories to women visitors
during certain hours.

Johnston stated that both proposals were “broad in nature and general in description.” The committee recommended South Asia as the
area for study. Johnston said there were three reasons for the selection of this area. The committee felt it was
better to “take a limited area than to take all of Asia; the English language is in use in this
area,” and Duke had a program concentrated in South Asia, and this would provide for what the committee termed a
“working relationship” with the Duke program. The report suggested a two-semester program not offering a major in non-Western studies. It
also recommended the addition of at least three of the faculty to teach the program. The committee also recommended that
a five-year, $250,000 grant be sought to support the program.

Spender and Auden had become friends at University College, Oxford, where they were both undergraduates at the same time. Later,
all three men associated themselves with a strongly anti-Fascist attitude during the 1930s. Spender went to Spain where he took
the side of the Spanish Republic during the Civil War. Since 1947, Spender has made frequent visits to the United
States. He has taught at Sarah Lawrence College, the University of Cincinnati, the University of California, and Northwestern University. As
a critic of the literary scene, Spender holds that the visual arts show a type of modernity that the more
traditionally-oriented literary arts do not show. Auden is also a chronicler of the current writers for the new English theater,
as well as the young poets such as Philip Larkin and Kingsley Amis.

Shinnock kidded the Davidsonian photographer who was taking his picture. “Of the 12 living religions of the day,” he said,
“all but 1 claim that there is a truth. Buddha was still searching when he died.” There are several ways
of looking at truth as a quality proposition, according to Shinnock. One can look at the life of Christ to
determine His authenticity and consistency. First, he said, the deeds of Jesus such as associating with the leper and cleansing
him, and His walking on the water prove that He knew His identity, and the knowledge of these deeds proves
His identity to us. Second, to those who say that Christ was “a nut,” Shinnock answered: “My best friend at
UCLA was a Jew. He would say that Christ was the greatest teacher and man that ever lived. Christ did
too many loving deeds to be called a maniac.” Third, the Christian religion is consistent, he said. “I discovered Christ
in my freshman year at UCLA. Before I had believed in Him in the head, but not in the heart
and soul.” Shinnock cited as an example of conversion Lew Wallace. He was working on a book with Robert Green
Ingersoll that was to disprove Christianity. By the third chapter, however, Wallace had found Christ, and he later wrote Ben
Hur.

On Campus Verna (By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!”, “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

REQUIEM FOR A SQUARE

You, like any other lovable, clean-living, freckle-faced American kid, want to be a BMOC. How can you make it? Well
sir, there are several ways, none of which will work. You're too puny to be an athlete, too lazy to
be a valedictorian, and too hairy to run for Homecoming Queen. As for becoming a best-dressed man, how are you
going to buy clothes with a miser for a father? Are you licked then? Is there no way to make
BMOC? Yes, there is! And you can do it! Do what? This: Become a hippie! Get cool! Get alienated! Have
an Identity Crisis! Be one of the Others! How? Well sir, to become a hippie, simply follow these five simple
rules:

1. Read all of Tolkien in the original dwarf.
2. Have your Sophomore Slump in the freshman year.
3. Wear buttons that say things like this:
NATIONALIZE DAIRY QUEEN
ASTHMATICS, UNITE
LEGALIZE APPLE BUTTER
ATTENTION, MEN . HANDS OFF AIR POLLUTION
4. Go steady with a girl who has long greasy hair, a guitar, enlarged pores, and thermal underwear.
5. Attend Happenings regularly.

This last item may require some explanation, for it is possible that Happenings haven’t reached your campus yet. Be assured
they will because Happenings are the biggest college craze since mononucleosis. A Happening, in case you don’t know, is the
first formless art form. Things just happen. For example, eighty naked men come out and squirt each other with fire
hoses containing tinted yogurt. Then eighty more naked men come out and light birthday candles in the navels of the
first eighty men. Then one girl, clothed, comes out and pulls three thousand feet of sausage casing through her pierced
ear. Then eighty more naked men come out and eat a station wagon. There is, of course, a musical accompaniment
to all these fun things. Usually it is “Begin the Beguine,” played by 26 trench mortars, a drop forge, and
a rooster.

There used to be, some years ago, still another requirement for becoming a hippie: a man had to have a
beard. But no longer. Beards were worn in the past not so much as a protest, but because shaving was
such a painful experience. Then along came Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. Today if you don’t want to shave, well,
that’s your hangup, isn't it, baby? I mean when you've got a blade like Personna that tugs not neither does
it scrape, what’s your copout, man? I mean like get with it; you're living in the past. Shaving used to
hurt, used to scratch, used to gouge, used to give you all kinds of static. But not since Personna. It’s
a gas, man. It’s a doozy; it’s mom’s apple pie. You dig? I mean, man, you still want a beard?
Crazy! But you don’t have to turn your face into a slum, do you? Shave around the bush, baby, neatly
and nicely with Personna. I mean Personna comes in double-edge style and injector style too. I mean like any way
you try it, you gotta like it.

Mr. Wrangler for real sportswear. The famous silent “W”: you don’t pronounce it, but you must look for it if
you want sportswear that looks right, fits right, feels right. Made right, too—many in no-iron fabrics treated with the remarkable
Wranglok® permanent press finish. Mr. Wrangler sportswear is here, on campus, in your size.

Hey, man, like how about doubling your pleasure by having those crazy whiskers well posed Burma-Shave? Like regular or menthol?
Like have you got a better friend than your kisser? Like treat it right, right? Ye-ye!
