Page Eight September 22, 1967 The Davidsonian

Stickley Seeks ‘Mobilization’
By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

ON THE SOAPBOX
Stickley Discourses On Republican Possibilities

School Teachers Attend Liberal Arts Program Here

An unusual program for the instruction of public school teachers was held this summer at Davidson. Over 100 teachers volunteered
for the first Summer Liberal Arts Program for Teachers, held June 15 through Aug. 1. Dr. William B. Hight, director
of student counseling at Davidson and himself a former high school teacher, principal, and guidance director, acted as director of
the program. Dr. Hight has hopes that the program will continue and that it will be possible for teachers to
return year after year and take up to 10 or 12 courses.

Campus Comment Response Good To Lefty’s Cafe

Wednesday head basketball coach Lefty Driesell bought the building now occupied by the College Restaurant on Main Street. In reply
to the question, “What do you think of Lefty Driesell’s plans to remodel the building and open a restaurant featuring
pizzas, fried chicken, and a special sandwich menu?” these students said:

John Pancake, junior: “It would be unfortunate if prices are higher, since so many students eat there regularly. It will
be nice to have a place to get something to eat at night. Mrs. Pratt (Mrs. Margaret Pratt, former owner)
is a real nice person.” PANCAKE

Julian Prosser, senior: “The idea of the restaurant is a very fine idea. I wish they'd serve beer there. I
regret that some enterprising member of the community did not think of this sooner.” PROSSER

Steve Fielder, sophomore: “The Davidson community is long overdue in providing a restaurant that caters to student tastes. The student
body deserves a clean sandwich shop with atmosphere within walking distance of the college campus.” FIELDER

Davidsonian Staff

News Editor: BILL ANDREWS
Associate Editors: BOB DUNHAM, HEYWARD CARTER
Managing Editors: KERN PARKER, GEOFF SEAMANS
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Photograph Editor: BILL OLSON
Sports Editor: BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Sports Editors: DAVID WEEMS, BERKY BELSER, NAT HEYWARD, MIKE SIGMAN, ED EMBREE, ROBBIE HOOKER, FRANK ANDERSON, ROBERT PYEATT, MIKE
JOHNSON
Photographers: JACK WELLMAN, JOHN VISER, BOB REID, DON SEWELL, DANNY WHITE
Cartoonists: Dick Anderson, Athley Kline, Lewis Lavine, George Cretekos, John Bolinger, Biff Fine, Ben Garrett, Jim Hudson, Mark Wingate, Steve
Callender, John Pancake, John Williams, Ed Hay, Richard Cowart, George Allen, David Cook, Paul Rowland, Paul Schneider, Chuck Green, Allen
Lewis, Greg Scott, Jim Cooley, Carter Fussell, Bill Warren, Rob Krehbiel, Jim Lee, Jim Crouse, Kim Griffith, Bob Meadows, and
Sam Darby.
Advertising Manager: CHARLES McEWEN
Assistant Business Manager: JOHN VISER
Circulation Manager: BOB REID

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036

While a typical summer course concentrates on teaching methods, Davidson's program offered challenging courses of study. The program is sponsored
by the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation, the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction, and Davidson College. The program was set
up in two three-week sessions, which included 10 courses each. The classes had a faculty-student ratio of five to one.
Classes were held all morning, and one course was taken per session. Courses offered were: American literature, French literature, contemporary
ethics, debate, economics, geometry, music, western civilization, and theater. The faculty consisted of 12 Davidson professors. (Staff Photo by Weems)

“The forces of this state have not been completely mobilized to help the people of this state and to create
a better society,” John L. Stickley said here Monday. The Charlotte textile executive and a leading contender for the Republican
nomination for governor of North Carolina in 1968 spoke at the joint meeting of the Davidson and Queens Young Republicans
Clubs. Stickley said that he plans to have a coalition government with “qualified and dedicated” men and will invite experts
from all fields to contribute to the quality of state government. Characterizing himself as “just right of center,” Stickley called
for fiscal responsibility and less government regulation of business. He said, “You are the ones who will bear the burden"
for unbalanced budgets. Because of “a lot of fat and waste and inefficiency in our appropriations,” Stickley plans to bring
in experts who will examine the state’s budget and will eliminate the waste. Social reform, according to Stickley, is a
necessary duty of the state. Rioting, however, is not the answer if the state fails in its role. Stickley feels
that rioting is simply a “silly excuse for looting, robbing, stealing, and beating.” Though he is against a ruthless labor,
Stickley said, “I wouldn’t change the labor laws. I believe in the right to work and in the right to
strike.” On national issues, Stickley recommends that part of the money taken in by the government from income taxes be
returned to the states for use in state government and in state education. On Vietnam, Stickley urges that the war
be pursued with “more vigor.” Predicting a Republican sweep in 1968, Stickley feels that he can beat the Democratic nominee
for governor and that the Democrats will end up with only 44 percent of the vote.

Car Regulations Same As Before

Assistant Dean of Students Jim Terry said this week that the traffic regulations will remain the same this year and
will be enforced for the protection of each student. Terry calls the student body's attention to the rules as listed
on pages 66-68 in the Wildcat Handbook. He especially noted that “easy pay” envelopes for uncontested violations are located on
a table just north of 101 Chambers. The check or cash may be enclosed and placed in the slot in
the door to 102. Initial violation is $1 with subsequent fines amounting to $3. Terry emphasized familiarization with the distinctions
between permanent and temporary permits, the latter being good for periods of less than 14 days. Temporary parkingmay be sought
at the fraternity court, north of the gym, south of the football stadium, west of Cunningham, and on Concord Road.
Terry requested students to note also the restricted areas. He went on to state that the college provides more parking
spaces than needed for all registered cars. By a recent count, there are upwards of 525 car slots, while the
total number of cars registered for this year is only 360 thus far.

PARK’S REXALL DRUGS
Complete Prescription Service
Russell Stover Candies
Davidson 892-2111

WANTED: Men and women to train for civil service examinations. We prepare men and women age 18-55, no experience necessary.
Grammar school education usually sufficient. Permanent jobs, no layoffs. Short hours, high pay, and advancement. Stay on present job while
training. For a list of jobs and salaries send name, address, phone number, and time at home. If rural, give
directions to home. Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Mon-Fri.

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND
GURLEY'S ESSO
MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS
PHONE 892-9304

Singers Kick Off Concerts

The Serendipity Singers will kick off the Social Council's 1967-68 series of eight concerts on Saturday, Sept. 30. Seven groups
or individuals of national reputation have already been lined up. A performer for the eighth concert will be announced. In
addition to the three major weekends, Homecoming, Mid-Winters, and Spring Frolics, three concert weekends have also been planned. The Platters
will play Homecoming weekend, Oct. 14, the Lettermen and Spanky and Our Gang on Feb. 16 and 17, respectively. Ray
Charles will come to Davidson for the Spring Frolics, April 20. The entertainment for April 19 will be announced.

The other two concert weekends will feature the Lee Evans Trio on Nov. 11, and folksinger Glenn Yarbrough on March
16. Social Council Chairman David Jennings said that the opening concert “ought to be a good one.” The Serendipity Singers,
he said, are one of the outstanding groups to come out of Greenwich Village, and what Jennings termed “a good,
solid, folk-rock act.” Student identification cards will be required for entrance into all concerts in Love Auditorium. I.D. cards will
be checked at the door for the concerts which will begin at 8 p.m.

(Staff Photo by Olson)

WASSERMAN WARBLES

Union Coffee House began another season Wednesday night with guitarist Dave Wasserman. UCH will regularly present student talent in the
Union basement spiced with occasional professionals.

Faculty Meeting Uneventful

The faculty convened briefly Tuesday for what Robert Sailstad, director of public relations and development, termed “a very uneventful meeting.”
Since this was the first meeting of the academic year, most of the time was devoted to introducing new members
to the problems the faculty faced at the end of school last summer. Dr. Jay Ostwalt, registrar and associate dean
of the faculty, reported on the data processing procedure for registration. Sailstad said the general opinion of the faculty was
that the computerized registration was a good idea, but many problems remain to be ironed out.

Davidson Student Helps African Church Project

By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

Last summer Lyn Montague, a Davidson junior, flew to Africa with plans to build a church in a remote village
there. Montague was sent on July 3 by the Presbyterian Churches in Pennsylvania with eleven other carpenters and teachers to
the Spanish province of Rio Muni. Six members of the group spent four weeks in Ocong where they helped the
natives build a cinder block church. According to Montague, the group's aim was to make contact with the people of
the village. Without the American help, the church project would have taken much more time. Montague mixed the cement and
helped carry and lay the cinder blocks, but lack of tools and material slowed the work. As the African language
is a unique “dialect based on tones,” Montague, an English major, talked with the natives only in Spanish.

However, communication was no problem. Montague could play games with the native boys. Or he could stop at any kitchen
in the village. “I could end up having four or five meals every day just by visiting,” he said. Montague
said that the materials ran out near the end of his stay. If the coffee crop is good, he feels
that the job will be completed by next summer. Montague also commented that the school systems and the medical service
are poor in Ocong. Since the natives depend solely on the coffee and cocoa crops for their living, poverty is
a definite problem.

Bowl At MOOR LANES
Statesville Highway
Mooresville, N. C.

ARCHER'S TEXACO AND WRECKER SERVICE
24 HOUR SERVICE
ALL BRANDS OF MOTOR OIL
MINOR REPAIRS
MECHANIC ON DUTY
Day Phone 892-9374
Night Phone 892-8747
Between Davidson & Cornelius

Name
Address
City
State
Zip Code

Right. Took the words right out of my mouth. I’m under 22 and want to apply for an Eastern Youth
ID card. It will let me fly anywhere within the continental United States that Eastern flies, on a stand-by basis,
for half-fare. Enclosed you'll find either a $3 check or money order, payable to Eastern Airlines, and a photocopy of
my birth certificate or driver's license. I’m sending them to: Eastern Airlines, Dept. 350, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.
10020. (What's the ablative absolute of Eastern?)

If you are not yet 22 years old, this small card will allow you to fly almost anywhere “Eastern” flies
for half price. The only inconvenience is that you must wait for a seat to be available. The “YOUTH FARE
I.D. CARD” will not be valid for a few days: on Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. Except for these, you can
fly at half price whenever and wherever you want. What are you waiting for? Get the card!
