Council Termed Unrepresentative

ED. NOTE: THE DAVIDSONIAN asked Mike Bates to describe some of the criticisms which have been brought by different students
against the present Student Body Constitution. This article is his description of some of the criticisms.

A major criticism of the present Student Body Constitution is that its Student Council is not large enough to represent
effectively the entire student body. The Student Council has had 15 (sometimes 14) members continuously since 1896, when the student
body was far smaller and more homogenous. Obvious omissions from representation on the Student Council are the Union Board, the
Interfraternity Council, the YMCA, and the Social Council. This lack of representation causes the criticism of fragmentation, for the constitution
does not encourage coordination between different student groups.

The present constitution establishes representation on a Student Council based almost entirely on classes. This method of representation was established
in 1896 when a student government was formed at Davidson. However, today classes have very little meaning at Davidson. Many
suggest that some representation should be based on the residence hall system.

Another criticism is the lack of structuring in the executive-legislative branch. The latter simply establishes a 15-person council with a
vague and weak statement of duties. No standing committees are provided for in the constitution, and none in the by-laws
provide for a regular and thorough review of all areas of student concern. Many criticize the committee system of the
by-laws as disorderly, incomplete, and weak. The by-laws themselves show no pattern, for they were added at irregular intervals to
meet specific purposes. Many feel the need to adjust the present constitution to take advantage of new representation provided for
by the faculty constitution. If the faculty-student councils come into being, additional changes will have to be made. These councils
may be the first step toward common faculty-student government of many areas, and the present constitution does not appear to
be structured to permit or encourage these changes.

Nowhere in the present constitution is there provision for the Student Body to disapprove and stop an action by the
Student Council, except by amending the constitution. Nor can the Student Body initiate legislation or recall an inactive representative. The
election system leads to extended elections of several exhausting weeks, during which student interest tends to fall. Critics of the
present constitution suggest numerous improvements which could speed elections and increase participation.

A very important criticism of the present constitution is the weak and incomplete nature of its preamble and statement of
purpose. There is no statement at all in which the relation of students to faculty and trustees is made clear,
and the general assumptions on which the Student Body operates are completely ignored. Instead, the Student Council is given the
empty purpose of “furthering the best interests of the College.” There is no statement of rights and freedoms which students
claim (a bill of rights). Critics of the present constitution cite most frequently its generally weak tone and the absence
of efficient structuring.

Committee To Recommend Regulations Court | Finance Board | Publications Board | Senate

The Senate is composed of 30 members. The President presides over both the Senate and Executive Committee, which is included
within the Senate.
- 4 Class Presidents
- 4 Class Vice-Presidents
- Senior Class Secretary-Treasurer
- Freshman Adviser
- Senate Treasurer

The Davidsonian May 12, 1967 Page Three

Honor Court | Elections Committee
- 9 or 10 dormitory representatives
- 1 representative each from the IFC, Independents, YMCA, Union Board, Social Council, IMAC

Executive Committee
- Student Body President
- 2 Student Body Vice-Presidents
- Student Body Secretary
- 3 Senators chosen by Senate

Committee on Religious Program | Rules and Policy Committee | Committee on Constitutions | Committee on the College | Committees
on the Union, Fraternities, and Social Clubs | Committee on Public Lectures and the Artist Series

STRUCTURAL DIAGRAM OF TENTATIVE CONSTITUTION PROPOSAL

This diagram shows the tentative skeleton structure of the student government as under consideration presently by the Constitution Revision Committee.
Broken lines indicate almost complete autonomy of the organizations concerned from the Senate. The Honor Court and Student Body Regulations
Court are separated in order to prevent interference in judicial proceedings by the Senate; the Publications Board to preserve freedom
of the publications. The committees at the bottom

A PRESENT AND FUTURE DESIGN

Constitution Revision Starts
By ED EMBREE Managing Editor

Major revision of the present Student Body Constitution currently being considered by the Constitution Revision Committee of the Student Council
is beginning to take some vague shape.

Following this spring’s Student Body elections, the Student Council responded to the call for revision of the constitution which had
been a part of several presidential candidates’ platforms.

Senate With 30 Members
By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer

The chief alternative to the present Student Council which is now being seriously considered by the Constitution Revision Committee is
the senate-executive committee form of student government.

The Senate would tentatively be composed of the four student body officers elected by the student body: the presidents and
vice-presidents of the four classes and the secretary-treasurer of the senior class, elected by their respective classes; one representative from
every residence hall on campus except Belk, which would have either two or three; one representative each from the IFC,
Social Council, Union Board, YMCA, IMAC, and Independents, each elected by his organization; the freshman adviser, elected by the senior
class; and the treasurer of the Senate, elected by the Senate from the student body.

The Executive Committee would be composed of the four student body officers and three other members elected by the Senate
from among its members. Its principal duty would be to prepare the agenda for the Senate meetings and to hear
and discuss committee reports and to pass them on to the Senate with its recommendations.

This form of government would be more representative and would give more students a chance to participate in student government.
It would create a central organization with added power to which other organizations could look for leadership. In doing so,
it would provide a better opportunity for the coordination of campus organizations and would probably give the students a stronger
voice.

Some opponents of the plan claim, however, that perhaps one organization ought not to have so much power.

The council appointed the committee from a list of applicants and Mike Bates was appointed by Council President Tom Earnhardt
as chairman. In order to facilitate study and revision, the committee has divided into three subcommittees studying different aspects of
student government.First sub-committee is studying the student judiciary, the preamble, and amendment and adoption procedures. Sub-committee II is considering several
proposals for a student legislative body in addition to election procedures. The third subcommittee is studying the committee structure in
a revised constitution. The committee is now beginning to formulate some definite proposals and, according to Franklin Anderson, secretary of
the committee, hopes to have “a rough, rough draft” by the end of school. Anderson further commented, “We are in
a transition period with change occurring in many facets of campus life. We want to design something that will work
both now and in the future, and we must consider the recent Faculty Constitution as well as the possible changes
resulting from the Blue Sky report.”

Once the Constitution Revision Committee has completed its work, the new constitution must be approved by the Student Body. Council
President Earnhardt outlined the steps the Council will take in seeking approval for the constitution. Discussion of the new constitution
in the entire Student Council will be followed by a series of Open End discussions to receive criticisms. The proposed
constitution will then go back to the Student Council for final revisions. A two-thirds vote of the voting students will
be necessary to ratify the new constitution, which will be presented as an amendment to the present constitution. Earnhardt stated
that, “one of our goals in this new constitution will be finding an official derivation of power.” “One possibility for
such a derivation is a statement similar to one in the constitution of the Princeton Board of Trustees. This statement
recognizes the Princeton Undergraduate Council as ‘the official representation body of the undergraduates.’” According to Steve Oxman, president of the
Princeton Student Body, who spoke to the committee Wednesday, the Princeton constitution states that the student government's power is “derived
from the students alone.”

The Constitution Revision Committee meets twice a week in efforts to rewrite the Student Body Constitution. Before each committee meeting,
each subcommittee is required to meet to prepare its proposals. Committee members are Fletcher Hartsell (L.), Peter Hobbie, Bud Couser,
Chairman Mike Bates, Secretary Franklin Anderson, Mike Powell, and, not pictured, Bill Watson and Ben Cannon. (Staff Photo by Olson)

Lack Of Change Marks Student Council History
By DON HOYT
Staff Writer

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, popular authority on Davidson College, claims the students during his undergraduate years exercised a great deal more
power than do students today. Although he was not sure whether the power had been granted to the students or
whether they had seized it, Davidson did say that he felt increasing faculty control has stimulated the current interest in
formulating a new constitution for the student body.

In investigating the history of the present constitution, THE DAVIDSONIAN found that actually there have been very few answers to
the problem of student government. There have been basically two constitutions, the present plan being in operation since 1937. In
the 1800s the individual classes and their respective presidents had jurisdiction over any matters brought before them. The classes could
expel students for offenses such as cheating and stealing, but, as the Spirit of the Wildcat points out, “the freshmen
and sophomores were not as wise as the upperclassmen in exercising this governing privilege and hence many mistakes were made
that were unnecessary.”

“As a result of this inefficiency, in 1896 E. H. Bean of Salisbury suggested a student government for the college.”
This suggestion met with approval, but under the ensuing agreement “the student body met only on rare occasions.” E. H.
Bean was a forerunner of the modern agitator, having come to Davidson after being disillusioned by the war—in this case
the Mexican War. The 1897 Quips and Cranks says: “The venerable Eugene Holmes Bean is a relic of some fossiliferous
age of long ago. After the war our aged veteran in a true ‘Weary Willy’ fashion ‘indulged in a Rip
Van Winkle sleep on a farm near Salisbury, N.C., until September, 1893. He awoke refreshed from the fatiguing experience and
imagined that time had rolled back many decades and that he was again a boy. Laboring under this marvelous illusion,
he entered Davidson...”

The first president of the Davidson student body was Archibald Currie, a man who had made a “wonderful escape from
the horrid lot of the generality of Freshmen” by means of his “withering dignity.” The student body, however, remained generally
unorganized until 1910 when C. R. Wilcox, who was described by the annual as being “a complicated mass of influence,
geniality, and horse sense,” set up the student council using the same basic form that it has today.

During the Twenties the honor system, which seems to have had no formal beginning, but rather an existence entwined in
college tradition, was incorporated into the constitution. The jurisdiction of the honor court became too broad, however, as was obvious
from the 1923 addition stating that there would “be no playing of musical instruments from 7:30 to 7:30,” and during
the following year the present Honor Code was adopted.

The first Wildcat Handbook, distributed in 1924, informed the incoming freshmen of a fifteen-member student government, the purpose of which
was “to perpetuate and maintain the high standard of conduct for which this Student Body has ever been justly respected.”
It is, perhaps, a sign of the times that the preamble to the present constitution is less magnanimous, proposing “to
provide student self-government, and to further the welfare of the Student Body...”

The March 3, 1937, issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, besides announcing the engagement of C. G. Davidson, reported the student body's
approval of a new constitution by a vote of 323 to 7, although there were 10 votes against the regulation's
prohibition of alcohol. The paper did not mention the number of students voting against the provision reading, “No student shall
be guilty of leading an immoral life.” The new constitution made few important changes. Its main contributions were provisions for
a well-defined election procedure and the election of a freshman adviser.

The following year, 1938, the constitution saw the first of a series of minor changes. The Wildcat Handbook of that
year notified the freshmen of their newly-gained right to vote in elections during the second semester. This issue of the
Handbook also advised the freshmen to “avoid the use of tobacco,” an admonition which unfortunately was placed opposite a cigarette
advertisement.

Since 1951 there have been seven minor changes in the constitution, perhaps indicating a growing dissatisfaction with the constitution. That
students are now contemplating a complete revision, plus the fact that in the past decade or so there have been
frequent irritations needing correction, indicates a steadily growing interest on the part of the students. Perhaps the constitution of the
future will reflect a society other than the one of the nineteenth century, of which it was said, “Card playing
and drinking of intoxicants is almost unknown.”
