DWELLE DISCUSSES ROLE OF DEAN (See Page Two) VOL. LVI

Group To Plan Dorm Council
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

A committee composed of six members of the administration and student body is currently trying to work out a proposal
for a dormitory council, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories.

“The council would probably be composed of one member from every hall, possibly two from the larger halls,” said Mrs.
Nicholls, “and its purpose would be to give the students a share in the responsibility of caring for the dormitories.

“Naturally,” she continued, “the members would be in charge of trying to minimize room damage and to keep the hall
in a respectable manner.”

Faculty Constitution Committee has recommended a constitution that establishes the Sky Committee permanently, sets up a new Committee on Student
Discipline, and increases student representation on faculty committees from five to 11. In addition, new faculty members will not be
allowed to vote during their first year, and faculty members are to heed penalty from disclosing opinions of individuals or
groups expressed within faculty meetings.

The one-year delay in giving faculty members the right to vote is a modification of present procedure established by the
Board of Trustees, which allows voting on all but matters of college policy. Another change is the placing of all
scholarships under the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid. Previously, athletic scholarships were under the jurisdiction of the Committee on
Athletics, and the Admissions Committee was separate.

SNCC Leader To Speak

A Black Power advocate will speak next week as part of the YMCA’s Great Issues program. George Ware, coordinator of
campus programs for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, will arrive on campus Wednesday night and stay through Thursday. He will
speak Wednesday at 10 p.m. at Open End in the College Union lounge and again in chapel on Thursday.

Ware, active in civil rights since his undergraduate days at Tuskegee Institute, is originally from Buffalo, N.Y. He earned an
MA in chemistry from Tuskegee in 1965 and went to work as a research biochemist in New Jersey, before returning
to Atlanta last September to become a full-time worker for SNCC. While an undergraduate he worked with the Tuskegee Institute
Advancement League, which promoted Negro involvement in local Mississippi politics. He served with SNCC in Selma and Montgomery, Ala. from
1964 to 1965.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1967

All dormitory regulations are also somewhat unique, in that most colleges have a residence council living in every dormitory. The
proposed council might be able to fulfill a vacancy which needs to be filled.

“We feel that the council will bring about a marked improvement of the conditions in the dormitories,” remarked Mrs. Nicholls.
“Decrease in room damage cannot help but result from this improvement.”

The members of the committee working on the proposal include Mrs. Nicholls; Jim Terry, assistant dean of students; and one
student from each of the four classes. They do not expect to have a definite plan for several weeks yet.

In order to be adopted, the constitution must be approved by a three-fourths majority of the faculty in April and
a majority of the trustees in May. If approved, the constitution would take effect Aug. 1.

Seven faculty committees will have one student representative each, chosen by the Student Council. The president of the YMCA will
serve on the Committee on Religious Policy.

Duties of the Executive Committee have been changed by removing from it original jurisdiction in discipline and curriculum cases. Discipline
cases will come before the Committee on Student Discipline, curriculum cases before the Committee on Curriculum Requirements. However, the Executive
Committee may hear appeals from any faculty committee. In addition, penalties may not be imposed until the student involved has
completed all the appeal procedures which he initiates.

Proposals Termed Flexible, Coherent
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The new constitution is designed to be “a coherent package of proposals,” according to Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, the constitution
committee's chairman.

“The faculty has continued for over 100 years without a constitution,” said Brinkley, and “we have tried to frame procedures
which will require the least amount of change from present practice and also provide flexibility to enable orderly change.”

“The changing role of the Executive Committee” is one of the most important parts of the new document, commented Brinkley.
“The Executive Committee would become the chief administrative unit of the faculty, not really a policy committee.”

The proposed constitution moves disciplinary matters to the Committee on Student Discipline. This change, according to Brinkley, will relieve a
major part of the workload on the Executive Committee and free it for administration.

Another change will be the restriction on faculty members discussing “opinions of individuals or groups expressed within the faculty meeting,”
as the constitution says. Brinkley commented that “it is unprofessional to report the division of opinion or to identify speakers
with opinions expressed.”

Union To Sponsor Post-Game Mixer

An informal ‘get-together’ with 50 girls from Sacred Heart College is planned by the College Union after the Davidson-Citadel basketball
game Saturday night.

“This is not a computer date mixer,” said Ben King, chairman of the Union Social Committee. “We invite everyone to
‘drop-in’.”

Soul, Inc., a band from Salisbury, N.C., will be playing at the dance to be held in the Morrison Room.
There will also be a Sophisticated Twist and two movies, “Suzie Wong” and the third episode of “The Last Frontier”,
afterwards.

CATS GET READY FOR TOURNAMENT (See Page Five) NUMBER NINETEEN

Committee Makes Proposal On Constitution For Faculty

The Union Coffee House brought in professional talent, The New Salem Trio (pictured) and Michael Ratcliffe, for another well-attended show
this week. Next week UCH is to feature The Three D’s from Brigham.ALL THAT JAZZ! UCH! GOES PRO

U.S. Women's Young University. They will stop by campus Thursday night on their way to Vietnam the easy way —
for troops there. (Staff Photo by ‘Honors’ P.E. Legal)

By ROBERT PYEATT
Staff Writer

The Athletic Department's “honors” physical education class does not violate any provision of the NCAA rules concerning all squad football
practice, spokesmen for the Athletic Department said this week.

“We would be delighted to have more students enroll who want to participate in a strenuous physical conditioning program,” Head
Football Coach Homer Smith commented. “I think this would be beneficial to all students. This is a good thing for
Davidson and Davidson football.”

The special class, which meets three afternoons a week, includes both football players and other interested students. A general exercise
program of rope climbing, jumping rope, weight lifting, doing sit-ups, dips on parallel bars, basic wrestling, chinning, and running is
followed. There are about 36 students enrolled in the class, including eight who do not participate in varsity athletics.

“The class was announced in all the regular P.E. classes and we gave all P.E. students an opportunity to select
it in advance,” Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director, remarked. “There had been some requests for an afternoon P.E. class. It's
open to anybody and we publicized it beforehand.”

Smith added that football players are expected to either take the special class or participate in another sport in order
to stay in good condition. “I was very much surprised that more students did not want to let the football
coaches put them through some strenuous physical conditioning work,” Smith said.

“It's perfectly legal or we wouldn't do it,” Scott concluded.

Council To Investigate Bloc Voting Advantages

By BOB DURHAM
Staff Writer

The Student Council tabled for one week Monday evening discussion on a proposal by senior Louis Lesesne that the council
remove the existing bylaw prohibiting bloc voting in student elections. After a discussion on the proposal, the council decided to
postpone further discussion until the members were able to check student response to such action.

The rule in question is from Student Council Bylaws, Section 2, paragraph 4, which reads: “Open discussion of candidates and
issues is encouraged. However, organized solicitations and combines or efforts to encourage bloc voting or vote swapping along organizational lines
shall be illegal. The penalty for violation of any of these rules shall be a loss of voting privileges for
all individuals involved and a fine of from $50 to $100 levied against all organizations involved.”

Lesesne pointed to the fact that many violations of this rule already exist and that there is no enforcement of
the rule. He also stated that removal of the law would allow a group to give a unified program when
running for office.

Discussion of the proposal turned then to a discussion on the role of a party system on Davidson's campus. Members
discussed party programs at several other schools, citing the good and bad qualities of each.

Curriculum

Good qualities mentioned included the party system's ability to organize a unified approach on party platforms and to give students
a better idea of what each candidate stands for. Elimination of other good candidates by the party system was mentioned
as a bad part of party organization.

Opponents Set For Vote Monday

By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

The student body will go to the polls on Monday to elect the Social Council chairman and the Union Board
president. According to Student Elections Chairman John Fay, the polls will be located in the lobby of Chambers and will
be open from 8:30 until 12:00 and after lunch until 5:00 p.m.

Two candidates have filed for each of the two positions. David Jennings and Westray Battle are vying for the chairmanship
of the two-year-old Social Council. The Union Board presidency will be sought by Andrew O. Clay and B. A. Aiken.

Clay, a native of Chatham, Mass., is a history major and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. He has been
a member of the Union Board this year and chairman of the Union Film Committee. A Spanish major from Sanford,
Fla., Aiken has served on the Union Board during his sophomore and junior years. During the past year, he acted
as chairman of the Union Display Committee and originated the “Wailing Wall.”

Battle, a history major from Rocky Mount, N.C., listed three areas of experience which had helped familiarize him with the
duties of Social Council Chairman: Social Chairman of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, as chairman of the Social Council's Hospitality Committee and
delegate to the Southern Block Booking Conference in Columbia, S.C.

A history major from Greenville, S.C., Jennings is a member of Alpha Tau Omega. He stated his primary qualification for
the office was the experience which he has gained as a member of the Social Council since its formation. He
was also a member of the Block Booking Conference, booking the price of entertainment and the proposed budget.

Jennings proposed “to explain the procedure of booking and the budget in relation to the prices of various entertainers through
THE DAVIDSONIAN.”

“The students should be informed,” Battle said, “about the techniques and problems of booking and/or the proposed budget through an
Open End discussion or THE DAVIDSONIAN.”

Candidates Advised Of Early Deadline

In order to be listed in next week's DAVIDSONIAN as a candidate for the offices of student body president, vice
president, and secretary-treasurer, editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN and Quips and Cranks and Honor Court defense advisor, candidates must notify the
newspaper by 6 p.m. Wednesday. The deadline for filing with the Student Council is Sunday, March 4, and voting will
be on Thursday, March 8.

Committee Solicits Student Ideas

The Blue Sky Subcommittee on Present Curriculum, its Strengths and Weaknesses announced Wednesday that it will distribute a questionnaire to
juniors and seniors in chapel Tuesday. The questionnaire will measure student opinion on areas of the present curriculum which are
being discussed and on some possible changes. The results of the questionnaire will be compiled by the student members of
the subcommittee.

Ross Cornwell, junior member of the subcommittee, requested that the students demonstrate their concern for the evaluation of the curriculum
by answering the questionnaire carefully and thoughtfully. “Most of the questions can be answered with ‘Yes or No’ so I
hope that everyone will fill out the questionnaire,” Cornwell added.

Ballot boxes will be placed in the lobby of Chambers for students to turn in the questionnaires Tuesday through Friday.
