Page Four

Keen Acknowledges “Tenderness Taboo”

The rise of a new Stoicism in modern society embodies the spirit of the “Tenderness Taboo,” according to Tuesday's chapel speaker Dr. Samuel M. Keen of Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. The tenderness taboo is “an exaltation of self-sufficiency and a repression of hope.” A vociferous anti-puritanical view of sex, however, is not accompanied by a comparable logic intellectually. According to Dr. Keen, the framework of modern society leaves man three choices in his quest for his identity: to be with his fellowman, to be away, or to be against. However, the extreme competitiveness of society precludes “with” by emphasizing self-dependence and unfeeling rationalism. Therefore, in both cases, though, man is alone.

Madison Avenue projections of the ideal man incorporate this solitude in their prototype of the “rough, tough, hard to bluff Western hero.” In addition, the “Marlboro Man” presents a further refinement of this theme. The virile cowboy, alone in the dangerous hinterland, exudes the aura of independence sought by many TV viewers if the consistently high popularity of Westerns is an accurate indication of sentiment.

Contemporary writers further develop the philosophy. Albert Camus, for example, in his books asserts that man is alone in an absurd existence: only at the realization of life’s absurdity does he begin to find his identity. Jean Paul Sartre claims that in this existence love and hope are impossible. One must deny tenderness. Christians contend that life is a gift and as a gift, the only response is gratitude. “Therefore,” explains Dr. Keen, “knowing that God is the creator of the universe, man can find the food of life through the freedom to love and hope.”

There the new Stoicism fails. Whereas the Christian view encourages generosity in the future (hope), the “Tenderness Taboo,” as exemplified in the “Marlboro Man,” treats love as simple dependence which is castration. Creative interchange is castration as all closeness is a threat. However, interchange is vital and to deny it invites schizophrenia, conjectures a psychiatrist analyzing the “Marlboro Man.” The inconsistencies of modern society are the background for the choice of philosophies. The culture of Fanny Hill, Candy, and Playboy blended with puritanism. The new right of the

Bondurant To Assume Position

Bill Bondurant, past director of alumni affairs, will be returning June 1 to assume the position of Assistant to the President. Bondurant is replacing Fred Sackett, who will be leaving to

April 7, 1967 The Davidsonian

SLIDE SPEEDS REPAIRS

A slide used for removing the old flooring in the third floor of Chambers was still in use this week although the repairs were planned to be completed during spring break. Sections of flooring were lowered down the slide.

ED. NOTE: This is the last in a series of four articles by Mike Bates on the proposed faculty constitution. This week Bates examines the appeal procedures open to students as provided in the constitution.

By MIKE BATES
Editorial Correspondent

Last month's proposed draft of the faculty constitution permits students to appeal disciplinary penalties on several levels. However, students would no longer be able to appeal to the entire faculty. The proposed draft provides for a Committee on Student Discipline consisting of four faculty members. This committee would decide cases where dismissal from the college is the probable penalty. (The student body’s Honor Court would continue to have original jurisdiction concerning honor violations.) In addition, students would have the right to appeal any decision of the Dean of Students to this committee. Beyond this committee, appeals could be made to the Executive Committee of the faculty and then to the trustees. The draft provides that no penalty would be imposed until all recourse to the above appeals is concluded.

Present practice supposedly gives the Honor Court and the Student Body Regulations Court original jurisdiction on cases in which both faculty and student body have similar disciplinary rules. The Honor Court, of course, handles all honor violations, but it appears that the Student Body Regulations Court has little business. This court has tried only two cases since its formation last school year. The court's chairman, Paul Marlon, personally makes the decision on whether or not the case will be accepted, and he has chosen to accept only one case which the Dean of Students referred to the court. Dean Burts

Festival Begins One-Month Run

By JOE JONES
Staff Writer

A series of concerts, paintings, and other visual arts centered on the theme avant-garde, past and present, will be features of Davidson's 20th Annual Arts Festival, which will extend throughout this month. Described by program director Robert Williams of the Davidson art department as a total assault on the senses, and a public auction of student art on April 28, will climax the festival.

Dr. James Purcell, chairman of the festival, describes avant-garde as “any departure from the traditional at any time.” Avant-garde is manifested when persons have dared to be different from the accepted.

Concerts will be pre-eminent, with performances by the Woodwind Ensemble, Jose Molina's Bailes Espagnoles, the Male Chorus, and the Alard String Quartet of the University of Pennsylvania. String Quartet Number One by David Richey of the Davidson Music Department will be performed by the Quartet, among others. A showing by Maude Gate-

(Staff Photo by Weems)

lecture and discussions. A Drama Workshop production, Endgame, will be presented April 13 at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Chapel on April 13 will consist of the announcement of the winner of the Vereen Bell award by Peter Taylor, short story writer at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Taylor will remain on campus for a coffee and an afternoon discussion. Open to the public, all events will be free except the Bailes Espagnoles. The student art auction will be open to the entire Davidson community. Any student wishing to offer his work for sale should turn it in to the Union desk by April 22.

STEAK
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL

Appeal Changes Made in New Constitution

said this week, “We'd like to have the students take as much responsibility as they will accept.” But he indicated that he was somewhat disappointed in the way the Student Body Regulations Court has operated. The proposed draft would continue the faculty's appellate jurisdiction over the Honor Court and the Student Body Regulations Court. However, according to present practice, the student courts’ decisions are not changed. At present, there appears to be little emphasis by the college on the need for clinical counseling for those guilty of disciplinary infractions. Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology, sees the need for two half-time clinical psychologists to counsel students. These men would carry one-half the normal teaching load. Workman feels that their status as teachers would increase their acceptance by students and faculty. Presently, Workman carries a full load of work in addition to giving clinical counsel to a limited number of students. He reports that he is forced to turn away numerous students.

HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

twentieth century to sensual freedom grapples with the puritanical attitude of futility that seeks to deny man from satisfaction. Wood, artist at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, will hang in Hudson Hall during the month of April. She will be on campus April 17 and 18 for a graduate work at Harvard Business School. Sackett’s temporary appointment expires in June; at that time, Bondurant will assume his duties. Due to his previous experience, Dr. Keen, associate professor Marrotte Resigns Post to Coordinate Colleges

Dr. Paul Marrotte, associate professor of history, is leaving Davidson at the end of the year to assume the position of executive director of the Piedmont University Center. Marrotte has been on the faculty at Davidson since 1954. He is a member of the Athletic Committee, and he is Davidson's representative to the visiting scholars committee at the center. He received his AB degree at the University of New Hampshire and his MA and PhD degrees at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Before coming to Davidson, he was a history instructor at UNC for one year. Marrotte is a member of the American History Association and the Association for Asian Studies. He also works on the National Council on Religion and International Affairs.

His selection was announced on March 23 after a meeting at the center in Winston-Salem. He will assume the office beginning July 1. The center has a membership of 17 Piedmont area colleges. Member colleges work together to provide materials, speakers, and academic opportunities which none could provide alone.

Sunday Night Open House
The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Minter

The Association, Brubeck To Highlight Weekend
The Association and the Dave Brubeck Quartet will sound off with rock and jazz in Spring Frolics concerts next weekend. The Association will perform in concert in front of Chambers Friday at 8 p.m. This group has made a name for themselves with such songs as “Cherish” and “Along Comes Mary.” The Association, one critic has commented, is the “first ‘show-rock’ group around today.” These six musicians “can play bluer blues than the Rolling Stones, harder hard-rock than the Raiders, and put more folk into folk music than the Kingston Trio.” Famed experimenters in all forms of jazz, Dave Brubeck and his own showmen will play in Love Auditorium Saturday night at 8. Brubeck’s group includes a drummer who actually plays a melody on his drums, and the quartet can play anything from “Blue Ronda a la Turk” to “Kathy's Waltz.”

The Freshman Council and the College Union have planned a bonfire for 1-3 Sunday morning. B. A. Aiken, Union president, said that entertainment will be featured at the bonfire.

Positions Open On Committees
Several official positions with both the Social Council and the Student Council will be open to students within the next week, according to a recent announcement by Tom Earnhardt, new president of the Student Council. Independents interested in the three Social Council posts should write a letter of intent giving their reasons for running and their qualifications and give it to any Student Council member. It will be read at the next meeting. A list of Student Council committees will be posted in the Union the first of next week. Any interested students should write a letter of intent and give it to any new council member. All letters for the Social Council and committee posts should be as brief as possible.

HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Pleasant Tasting Liquid For Upset Stomach
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Phone 892-2111
Open 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.
Your Neighborhood Drug Store
131 N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.

HONEY’S GOURMET BUFFET
Open Monday through Friday
11:30 a.m. to 2:00
105 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985
For Reservations
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

SHERRILLS
WALK SHORTS
CASUAL SLACKS
HALF SLEEVE SHIRTS
KNIT SHIRTS
You will like our store
For Class, Lake Norman, Golf, or just plain goofing off.
From Famous Brand Manufacturers.
Main St.
Davidson

The Hub
Clothing for the pace-setting traditionalist
Mooresville
Our 55th Year

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Watch & Jewelry Repair
THE CELLAR
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
Never Over $1.00 Cover
300 E. Morehead St.
Behind Conder
Charlotte Soda Shop