Page Six November 17, 1967

SUSPENSION
Council Proposes Stricter Fire Rules
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council unanimously approved the Student Life Committee’s recommendation for a stronger rule against setting fires on campus.

~~» Campus Comment

The new rule would make the penalty for setting a fire in any campus building suspension from school for at least one semester. The rule was presented and explained to the student body Thursday and will be voted on sometime after Thanksgiving. A two-thirds vote is necessary to enact the rule. The rule will be an amendment to Article IX, Section 5 of the Student Body Constitution and will read: “The intentional setting of a fire in any building on campus will be considered an extreme case, and conviction for such an offense will usually result in suspension for no less than one semester.”

The proposed rule stems from a flurry of fires in the dormitories reported to the Student Life Committee by Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing. Student Council President Tom Earnhardt expressed his opinion that the previous rule was much too lax and Davidson “ought to bring their standards about fire up to those of other schools.” Bill Watson suggested that the rule be added to the Student Council ByLaws, which requires only council approval. Mike May said he thought such a major change ought to be submitted for student body approval. He said this method “would give the students fair warning.”

Question: Do freshmen lose their enthusiasm? If so, why?

Johnny Durham, junior: “I don't think they lose their enthusiasm in relation to academics. The fact that their grades are frequently lower than in later years is not indicative of a loss of enthusiasm—it’s merely a period of adjustment, of putting things in perspective.”

John Bolinger, freshman: “I don’t think the freshman class has lost much of the spirit it had when it came. Those that have lost spirit have done so because of the example of upperclassmen.”

Dan Gresham, senior: “I think they definitely do as far as to the school. It is doubtful if they do in relation to academics. It's the nature of the school—it is so secluded and out of touch that people just get tired of it.”

Calvin Murphy, sophomore: “I don't think they do. As a freshman I couldn't afford to become apathetic toward studies. An appearance of apathy is more a settling down into a rut typical of Davidson.”

Morgenthau (Continued From Page 1)

worthwhile. His eyes kept roaming over the car's plush interior. “And what's that thing?” he asked, pointing to a dial located on the console where it rose to meet the dashboard. Bondurant explained that it was a manifold pressure gauge which was supposed to measure how economically the car was operating. The political scientist nodded in understanding when Bondurant explained that it operated the way that old-fashioned car windshield wipers did—the needle fell as the car accelerated.

Finishing first in his class at Duke University Law School was reflected in the way that he “kept politely probing the man who made famous the modern theory of ‘power’ politics.” Morgenthau answered the questions briefly without elaboration. But Bondurant’s offer of a steak lunch was met with the same enthusiasm that had greeted the fancy car. Morgenthau admitted that he would enjoy “... Southern-fried steak, hominy and Southern comfort.” He took the news that drinks were not sold in Charlotte with a graceful disappointment.

WHATTA MEMORY! Rogers absorbs a recent issue.

Movie Proves It--War Game Is Hell

ED. NOTE: Following is a review of “The War Game,” a 47-minute movie shown last night in Love Auditorium.

By BILL SPENCER
Staff Writer

Last night at least 700 people witnessed possible scenes from World War III. “The War Game” showed more blood than inspiration, but it did succeed in proving, for any who needed proof, that war is indeed hell. The movie, set in Britain, opened with scenes of preparation for a bomb attack. This was followed by an effective use of counterpoint illustrating the ignorance of the British and Americans in regard to nuclear war. This involved a series of scenes in which British people could not answer such questions as “What are the effects of radiation?”

News Magazine Sparks Massive Memorization

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

He spends his time memorizing the covers of “Time” magazine. And he can tell you who was on the cover of any issue the past 10 years. But Cullum Rogers (“Lurch” to his classmates) explained his interest in “Time.” “I just want to know everything, and that's what they (‘Time’) promise to give you—eternal life while you last.”

Leader Praises VISTA’s Goals

By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

The strong commitment of Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) to fight poverty in America was described Thursday by chapel speaker William H. Crook, a VISTA administrator. VISTA currently has 4,500 volunteers throughout the United States, according to Crook. These young men and women, generally between the ages of 18 and 24, stay, eat, and suffer with the poor, while teaching skills to the jobless and aiding in various community organizations. “Poverty doesn't make sense anymore,” Crook said. He termed poverty “an unnecessary plight in America” that must be abolished for the nation to reach its full potential.

Several VISTA volunteers from North Carolina are now attempting to move the poverty-stricken living in the rural areas to the cities where work is available, he said. The Job Corps program also performs such services. While helping these people to find jobs, the workers secure for them the benefits of Social Security and Welfare, he said. Crook compared VISTA objectives to those expressed in the popular folk song “If I Had A Hammer.” VISTA is that hammer which “pulls out the rotten wood in society,” he said. Although progress is slow in the poverty areas, the volunteers are tough and determined. Their loyalties lie only with the poor, he said.

Crook pointed out that volunteers helped in the recent Detroit riots. They work anywhere that poverty is a problem.In order to test his knowledge, Rogers was given random dates and asked who was on the cover. He missed only once. Given names and asked dates, he didn't miss. “That week's cover was of the leaders in Congress. I'll list them for you: Rayburn, Albert, ..."

“James Monroe? That would be the uh - Cuban missile crisis. September 21, 1962." On the covers before 1957, he could remember only about half, but in one place when he could not remember the cover story for a 1954 Olds 4-4-2. Three bucket-seat models: Holiday Coupe, Sports Coupe, Convertible. Displacement, cubic inches.......... Compression ratio............-.10.5-to-1 BHP..........0000e00000350° at 4800 rpm Torque, lb.-ft............440 at 3200 rpm Carburetion........ccessscccsccces Abb. Built-in Combustion Control System date, he listed the two covers before and the two after. Rogers said that he had also begun to collect “Newsweek,” and has been collecting ‘Mad’ but explained that it was the ‘‘distinctiveness" of ‘Time's’ covers that held his interest.

‘He's not really a nut,” commented one student who knows him. ‘He has a sharp wit, and he can turn his image on or off at will.” That image might be termed one of villainous brilliance, and is typified by the role the freshman took in “Darkness at Noon,” where he played the hatchet man who destroyed the leaders of an.

Sunday Night Open House

The following homes will be open this Sunday night at 8:
Bondurant Hwy 73 East
Brinkley 420 N. Main
Locke White Jr. 203 Lorimer
Workman 209 Lorimer

...diation?” and statements by church and educational leaders to the effect that war is a fact of life and one must learn to live with it, alternated with scenes filmed in the bombed cities of World War II. The question raised was whether an individual could in good conscience support a government which engages in war under any circumstances.

The rest of the movie, after depicting the conditions existing in Berlin, Tokyo, and Hiroshima in the second World War, follows the developments in a few counties in England during and after a simulated bomb attack. Immediately following the attack, one-third to one-half of the people of the country were killed or injured. The surviving doctors were each faced with about 350 patients, mostly with radiation burns. Policemen were armed and sent out to shoot those people that were beyond medical help. Soon came total anarchy. The people turned on the police, and firing squads worked constantly. And, after about four months, the medical problems resulting from improper diet set in.

“The War Game" is a shocking movie in that it certainly acquaints the viewer with the horror of a nuclear war. However, it suggests no plan of action, and is therefore deadly depressing, although never dull.

Laundry Changes Policy For Sheets

C. W. Stacks, manager of the College Laundry, has announced a new policy for students exchanging sheets and pillowcases. Under the new system, sheets and pillowcases will be issued on an exchange basis only. A linen room has been opened in the laundry for this purpose and will be open from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. every Monday and Thursday. Stacks said that the new system had to be implemented because the laundry was losing too many sheets. “We've just got to have a little better control,” he said.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Given a black suit, he could well fit the old stereotype of an anarchist carrying a bomb. The image is broken only by a habit of incessantly chewing gum.

...facts of life. Matic floor shift. Prop sh Axle ratios (to 1)..2.56, 2.78, 3.06, 3.28 with Hurst Shifter steering 91, 4.3. emcee Stripe. Rally Pac Optional: 4-on-the-floor (close- or wide-ratio with Hurst Shifter) or Turbo Hydra-Matic, Redial-Ply Whitewalls. Simulated-wire and Su Special wheel discs. Others. GENERAL - 7 Stock Wheels.

Bondurant lost several student elections as an undergraduate at Davidson. Before choices in Charlotte brought lost to speeches. When Bondurant asked if he was to speak about politics again that night, Morgenton answered “no.” He was just looking forward to rest and seafood from the gulf in New Orleans.

The 50 states have requested a total of 39,000 more volunteers to fight the poverty that exists in the nation. Crook said, with a recruiting drive for volunteers in February. Crook asked Davidson students to give serious consideration to a year of service.

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
CHARLES McEWEN

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photograph Editor:
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER
BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editors:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM
KEATON FONVIELLE
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
BURKEY BELSER
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS
MIKE SIGMAN

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

THE CELLAR
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI, SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
Never Over $1.00 Cover
300 E. Morehead St.
Behind Conder Charlotte Soda Shop

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Ben Garrett, Lewis Lavine, Glenn Mauney, Biff Fine, Jim Hudson, Steve Callender, Mark Wingate, Kim Griffith, James Roland, Don Hoyt, John Williams, Paul Schneider, Chuck Green, Mac Hobby, Rob Krehbiel, Bill Spencer, Jim Cooley, David Cook, Danny Coltrane, Dick Anderson, James Lee, Richard Cowart, and Bill Warren.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036