Page Six November 10, 1987 - The Davidsonian

$9.25 SPECIAL

Wheelers-dealers of the freshman class get ready to move.

Freshman Hall Becomes Mobile, Buys 1957 Ford Station Wagon

The third floor of East Dormitory has found a solution to every freshman’s perennial problem of transportation. With the help of Assistant to the President Bill Bondurant, the freshman hall now has its own car. Hall member Walter Walker brought up the idea at a hall meeting about a week ago. Bondurant had told him that Sergeant Raymond Clark of the ROTC Department was being transferred and needed to sell his car. There was immediate response and the “Third Floor East Club” was formed to buy it.

(Staff Photos by Fonvielle)

A WAY WITH WORDS

March and Wheatley display prize.

Each of the club’s 15 members gave $9.25 to the one trustee, Bo Wood. He obtained the title and some Georgia license plates, so that the car would not be subject to any North Carolina insurance laws. The car is a light blue 1957 Ford station wagon with a working radio and a loudspeaker very similar to those in the dorms. Costs beyond the original investment have been low. It has run on gas supplied by riders and hasn’t needed repair.

Novice Debaters Capture Third Place In Tourney

Davidson's novice debate team took a third place finish in its second tournament of the season last weekend at Appalachian State College at Boone. The negative team of Windy March and Tom Wheatley posted a perfect record, winning all six rounds. On the basis of points, they were the second negative team. University of Tennessee won the tournament. Gary Cash and Gray Mason, debating affirmative, won four rounds and lost two. They were the fourth best affirmative team. March received a speaker's award. This weekend the novices are competing in the University of Georgia tournament. Cash and Mason are affirmative and Gil Terriberry and Joe Smith are negative.

The varsity team opened its season at the Emory tournament in Atlanta last weekend. Mac Hobby and Robert Pyeatt, representing Davidson, posted a 1-7 record in what debate coach Ray McMillin called “one of the best tournaments in the nation.” Bad luck in pairings plagued Hobby and Pyeatt as they debated three teams which made the quarter-finals. Over 120 teams from across the country were entered. In their first round, they contested Northwestern, which has “one of the strongest teams in the country this year,” McMillin said. Eastern Illinois and William and Mary were the other two rounds the first day of the tourney. The second day Hobby and Pyeatt debated MIT, Emory, and Johns Hopkins. The final two rounds were power matched. They defeated Middle Tennessee State and lost to Brooklyn College. McMillin said that he expects the novices to “do very well” at the Georgia tournament and said that they are an exceptionally strong novice team.

Trials Of Idealism Theme Of ‘Darkness At Noon’

ED. NOTE: The final performance of “Darkness at Noon” will be given in Hodson Hall at 8:15 tonight. The following review is by junior George House, an English major.

“Darkness at Noon,” presented by the Davidson Drama Department, was borne over a somewhat lengthy space by the superb acting of the leading character, Bill Graham, a senior. Graham, as Rubashov, supported and dominated the play by performing the main role in every major scene. This mountainous task was executed in such a manner that the audience felt Rubashov to be alive before them, not just a mirror set on a stage to represent a fictitious character. To sustain a performance that dealt with so lengthy an intellectual discourse, yet still to maintain the strict attention of the audience, merits the ever elusive adjective, “talented,” as a tribute to Graham's achievement.

The play itself is a sentimental picture of a Machiavellian character whose means (those needed to establish a Communist society) have become an end. The idealistic Bolshevik, who would stop at nothing to reach his goal, has now become an obstacle to the ideals of a new generation. In prison, he grows to doubt his own infallibility when considering the power structure he has helped to create. But, convinced by Ivanoff of his usefulness in complying with the party, Rubashov sells out his ideals for a functional role. In his final breakdown, the aging idealist Rubashov realizes himself as useful to something that must have gone wrong in the beginning.

The supporting roles by Joe Gardner as Luigi and Tim Gailey as Ivanoff single them out as probably the two outstanding minor characters of the cast. The use of an impressionistic black background was excellently augmented by off-stage lighting. This technique continually shocked the viewers out of the subjective thought pattern produced by dialogue into an immediate feeling of stark reality.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
HEYWARD CARTER
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER
BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editors:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photograph Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
KEATON FONVIELLE
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
BURKEY BELSER
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS
MIKE SIGMAN

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Paul Schneider, Ashley Kline, Biff Fine, John Bolinger, Jim Hudson, Mark Wingate, John Pancake, Bob Meadows, Jim Crouse, Kim Griffith, John Williams, David Cook, Dick Anderson, Paul Rowland, Allen Lewis, Richard Cowart, Mac Hobby, Chuck Green, Danny Coltrane, Jim Cooley, Bill Spencer, Edward Hay, Steve Callendar, and Don Hoyt.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

“Hunger art” is the basic form of modern art and theology said Dr. Nathan A. Scott in a talk yesterday afternoon at the College Union. He defined “hunger art” as the “elimination of the dimension of depth.” Scott is a professor of theology and literature at the University of Chicago. “Whether you turn to art, literature, music, poetry, or architecture, there is impatience with the old myth of depth,” he said, adding that the “deepest sensation made upon us by the new art... is the sensation, not of pleasure, but of great displeasure.” He described modern fiction as something “designed to test the reader's capacity for tedium.” Music, he said, assaults the ear not by “attempting to express the forms of human feeling but (by) sounds.” Modern architecture, he said, celebrates “the sheer thereness of the raw materials in their unhumanized faculty... simply skeletons of steel and glass.”

Blue (Continued from page 3)

...three we can provide a term off for each faculty member every three or four years over and beyond the regular sabbatical leaves. Such opportunities would be granted only to those who propose serious programs of study or research, of which the Administration of the College would have to be the final judge as to the validity and appropriateness of the project submitted. Although we believe such a feature is possible and desirable under the 3-3-2 plan, if 80 students are away one term of the junior year, we realize that detailed specifications will have to be perfected before definite promises of...Such leaves can be made. There are several reasons why the benefits that will flow to the Faculty from this arrangement are desirable, and at least one reason why they are necessary. From a strictly practical point of view, we must do something of the sort in order to meet the competition of the best colleges in recruiting new faculty and in retaining the present one. But the more solid and compelling reasons are that teachers need more time in order to do a quality job, and covet opportunities for self-renewal. The new breed of students now current in the College, together with the expansion of knowledge in all areas of learning, demand more time for preparation. No teacher, however able and dedicated, can teach as many courses at Davidson as he did ten or fifteen years ago, and do it as well. We do not expect teachers to work less time by reducing teaching loads, but we must arrange for them to spend their time on fewer courses. And these same conditions of alert students and expanding disciplines compel the College to provide renewal experiences for its Faculty in order to furnish chances for constant intellectual refreshment and opportunities for keeping abreast of the many new developments in their fields. These benefits will go a long way toward restoring zest to college teaching.

EPILOGUE

Such is the nature and tone of the new program proposed by your Committee. If the new curriculum seems to have about it a measure of real “blue-skying,” of limitless expectations, it is because we realize that the trouble with limited objectives is that we might reach them. We admit that the new program is exciting, challenging, promising, visionary, and stimulating. But we are not alarmed by these qualities because we believe that a curriculum is a reflection of a college and that it changes only when the spirit and goals have already changed. It is the result, not the cause, of a new awakening. A curriculum is a tool and not an idol. It is a pattern that administration and faculty choose to give to an institution's work. It is a combination of techniques, information, and attitudes whose proportions are constantly changing. But it is more—it is an act of faith. It is a confession of a conviction that liberal learning can make one more sensible, more responsible, more useful, happier, and wiser. These ideals suggest an appropriate, and final, warning. Curriculum change, by itself, can be the opiate of the Faculty. No system guarantees success. A football coach wins games not because of the split-T system, or the single wing, or the box, but because, in the jargon of the profession, “he has the horses.”

And so with the college and its system—called the curriculum. Even if we should come up with what was for the moment a perfect curriculum, we may be certain that it will not operate itself. It cannot operate itself because liberal education is basically an act of discovery in which both teachers and students have essential roles. The teacher of genuine intellectual competence and extraordinary devotion and integrity is therefore the indispensable agent of learning. But, just as certain saints have forgotten themselves into immortality, so the greatest teacher fulfills his indispensable role best when he finally makes himself wholly dispensable.

Further Recommendations

The Committee recommends that the divisional structure of the Faculty be reorganized into a Division of Natural Science and Mathematics, a Division of Social Sciences (including History), and a Division of Humanities. We endorse the principle of a two-year Physical Education requirement as an integral part of the academic program of Davidson College. We believe that the emphasis of the program should be on the more effective teaching of fundamental skills in sports that can be continued throughout life. We recommend that the Educational Policy Committee work out the detailed expression of these principles, and their implementation, in consultation with the Department of Physical Education.