Executive Leaves Career For College

GILL SEIGLER Associate Editor

Davidson College’s president gave up a successful business career six years ago to return to his alma mater, first as treasurer and then somewhat reluctantly, as president. President D. Grier Martin, a 1932 cum laude graduate from Davidson, took over the helm of the college in May. He was hesitant about accepting the position, however, because his lack of formal training in educational administration, he said, gave him a “terrible background to be a college president.”

PRESIDENTIAL PORTRAIT

What it takes to be President of a college, in particular Davidson, and D. Grier Martin as Davidson president are examined in this week's DAVIDSONIAN Report. His background included experience in business and acting, and most importantly, a thorough familiarity with Davidson which would help him as president. Even so, this “terrible background” included experience in business and acting, and most importantly, a thorough familiarity with Davidson which would help him as president.

After growing up in a “plantation-like” atmosphere in Covington, Ga., Martin entered Davidson in the fall of 1928. Here he edited THE DAVIDSONIAN and lettered in basketball and track. He spent a year in graduate school at Emory University before returning to Davidson as alumni secretary and publicity director for three years. From 1936-1951 Martin first was an executive of a coal company, then a hosiery mill. “People,” he said, “thought I was crazy for coming back here in 1951 to be college treasurer.” Martin said he had no aspirations to become president. “What finally decided the matter for me," he explained, “was that the faculty in considerable majority supported me for the presidency.”

While president at Davidson, Martin commented, “my best efforts have been involved in trying to provide both physical and financial resources for the college.” The experience he uses so extensively in “selling” Davidson to foundations started with his selling Fuller brushes in western North Carolina the summer before he entered Davidson. “You can’t raise money just through letters,” he said. “You must make personal contacts.” He told of meeting Charles Dana, president of the Dana Foundation, at the wedding of the daughter of his brother, Jack. Before the wedding Martin told his brother, “Jack, I’m not going to ask Mr. Dana about helping Davidson, but if he asks me a question about the college, I’m not going to be impolite enough not to answer.” The two men met, and shortly thereafter Davidson received $400,000 for the Dana Science Building.

Despite his hectic life, it is not unusual for him to doff his coat and throw a frisbee with students. He used to jog around the fraternity court early in the morning and still regularly goes through “a routine of very dull exercises.” He also enjoys his lakeside house some 13-14 miles from Davidson and swims and fishes frequently though, he noted, “with no frequency do we catch fish.” His rose garden is one of his pet projects. Martin and his wife, the former Louise McMichael, have two sons, both graduates of Davidson, and a daughter, who married a Davidson graduate.

By BOB TRAVERS Assistant Editor

“The liberal arts curriculum, if we remain true to it, teaches a person how to live and not to make a living,” said Davidson President D. Grier Martin in an interview this week. In commenting on the value of a liberal arts education, he pointed to his experiences in business, saying that he has often seen a liberal arts graduate, who does not have “an immediately saleable skill upon graduation, rise farther and faster than the graduate of a technical or job-oriented educational program, who is otherwise as well qualified.” “I think the liberal arts graduate can adjust himself much better to our whole society than can the graduate of the more technical educational program,” he said.

Martin once stated that his hopes for Davidson were that it would become “the best institution of its kind in America.” He explained that he was thinking of Davidson basically.

Confrontation Is Value Of Church Commitment

“There is little doubt that required courses in religion and required attendance at two weekly religious services result—for the moment—in hostile students,” explained President D. Grier Martin in a 1964 letter to the Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in the United States. But the value of the requirement, said Martin, is in the confrontation of the students with the issues involved in Christianity. “Davidson students are encouraged to think through.

Today’s College President: Leader, Provider, Diplomat

By RICHARD COWART Staff Writer

“I not only live in a goldfish bowl, but I sometimes feel that someone is trying to poison the water,” said Yale President Kingman Brewster, in a feeling of frustration which typifies college presidents throughout the United States. Today’s college president is expected to perform a wide variety of tasks simultaneously. He must be not only the leader and chief administrator of his institution but also its provider. In his role as an administrator, the president must face every problem of any consequence which arises, for ultimately every difficulty and every conflict comes under his jurisdiction. In addition, the solution of problems must satisfy or at least pacify the four sectors of the college community: faculty, trustees, students, and alumni. Like the head of any corporation, he must also handle labor, governmental, and civil relations. Because of the pressures of these seven groups, all of which must be reconciled, diplomacy becomes an art of survival.

In addition to his role as administrator, the president must project the long-range goals toward which the institution moves. Every decision must be considered in the light of its effect on the distant future of the college. Because of this requirement for planning, present expedience may have to be sacrificed. The low-rate dormitories may have to remain unmodified by remodeling until the funds are present to replace the buildings. The disagreements among the pressure groups end, however, when it comes to the need for money, for the financial sphere is becoming progressively more acute—even to the point of being the most serious problem facing today’s college president, especially the president of a private college.

Because the cost of attending a private college is on the average already twice the cost of attending public colleges and universities, one college president has remarked that 350 private colleges will go broke within the next decade, “If this trend continues,” said Allan M. Cartter, Chancellor of New York University, “I fear that private higher education in all but a few wealthy institutions will be dead.” Rising costs of professors’ salaries and library and construction costs have served to intensify the search for funds. “We are trying to build fund-will—and good-will,” quipped Miami University President Henry Stanford about the search for endowment, but endowments are proving increasingly unable to cope.With the rapid rise in costs, it is because of the decreasing ability of endowments to fund the colleges' projects that many are turning to federal aid. This aid, which currently runs at four billion dollars per year, pays for the tuition of over 3 million students and provides much of the equipment used in research and teaching. These areas with their own minds and not just memorize what is in the Bible or the textbook," Martin continued. He termed this "consistent with the educational program of the college, which encourages students to think for themselves and which does not wish to be merely an indoctrination center."

Martin's letter preceded the adoption by the Board of Trustees of a statement of purpose which set forth Davidson's goal to become "a Christian liberal arts college second to none in the service of God and man." Martin contrasted Davidson with other colleges, saying that no other non-Catholic school in the nation had as extensive religious requirements as Davidson had, but said also that greater knowledge and concern prevents Davidson students from accepting the oversimplified answers to complicated religious questions. As it now is, with no great many improvements, "I was talking of a liberal arts college about the size Davidson now is," he said, "without any associated programs of graduate or technical education." He emphasized that he was also thinking in terms of a nationally recognized and respected institution. "If we were merely speaking in terms of a southern institution, we would have very little competition," he said. When asked what he thinks Davidson must do to achieve this goal, what kind of things must be done, he replied, "We just have to keep doing basically those things we have started to do. We have a long way to go before we can feel we are doing the best that can be done."

The president outlined several past projects as the general types of programs Davidson must create and establish. He pointed to the Richardson Scholarship Program as one example. Davidson very much needs a more international outlook, he explained, highly praising the program. The institution of the Humanities program and the Junior Year Abroad program also received great praise from Martin as types of things Davidson must do in the future. "These add a great deal to the education of those people who usually would come here," he said.

Martin, however, termed the problems that face the small liberal arts college now and those which will continue to face them "frightening." The financing of private institutions is especially acute, he said. He pointed particularly to the problem of instituting the recommendations of the Blue Sky Committee, which he praised highly and added to his list of those things which Davidson must do in the future, as one aspect of the financial problem. The financial squeeze, he said, is partially the result of "inflationary costs" colleges have to face. He added, however, that a major source of the drain on financial resources is the money put into faculty salaries. "We have really put a lot of money into the faculty — which is where it ought to be," he said. He pointed out that average annual faculty salaries have risen from just over $4,000 to over $13,000 in the time he has been here (since 1951). "We just want to utilize our resources and manpower to provide the best education that we can," he concluded.

CHAMBERS BUILDING

ED. NOTE: The following was written by President Martin when he was editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN in 1931.

Much has been written and more said of the beauty, usefulness, and particularly, the preservation of the Chambers Building, but, unless one knows Davidson well, he cannot realize the vast importance of this building in the life of the school. One has only to realize that all classes, excepting chemistry and R.O.T.C., meet in Chambers, and that all the offices of the administration are there, to understand how essential the building is in the operation of the college. It seems almost impossible that Davidson could have been kept running after the fire which destroyed Old Chambers when there was no administration building, and classes were held in Shearer, in houses in the town, and in other inconvenient places. It was only through the perseverance of Davidson leaders, and the generosity of Davidson men that disaster was averted. Even after the construction of the south wing of the new edifice, it is hard to understand how the work was so successfully carried on.

Now that we have the whole building completed, surrounded by grounds that are being improved every day, amply providing facilities for the entire system of education, it is important that we keep in mind at all times the care and preservation of this virtual center of Davidson activity. This has been done in an admirable manner in the past and should be continued during all future Davidson generations. Only in this way will we be able to have an administration building of which all Davidson men can be proud.

Martin Adds Unique Interpretation To Concept Of Davidson Presidency

By STEVE CALLENDER
Staff Writer

From mediating between the college and national fraternities to amazing students with his frisbee-throwing ability in afternoon games, Davidson President D. Grier Martin functions in a wide range of capacities. As the man who is finally responsible for every aspect of college policy, Martin's duties include heading the Faculty and its executive committee, representing Davidson in the Duke Endowment Committee, and increasing contact and discussion among the various sections of the college community. Another of his key duties is acting as representative of the college at official functions. He makes at least two trips a month to attend such affairs as the inauguration of a new President at Queens College this weekend. He is on the Board of Directors of a number of national educational associations. As treasurer of the Association of American Colleges, the largest organization of its kind, several trips a year to anywhere in the country are necessary. He makes four or five trips a year to Winston-Salem as a Director of the Piedmont University Center, an association of 12 colleges and universities which help smaller institutions. Meetings of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools are always attended by either Martin or Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. Martin says that meeting with other college presidents provides a chance for an exchange of ideas.

In the community, he is the chairman of the Single Government Committee for Mecklenburg, a group for consolidation of the city and county governments. He is a member of the Lions Club and an elder in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. At home, he stays abreast with the world by reading the morning paper when possible, Time, and Fortune. For amusement, he enjoys swimming, playing horseshoes, and a few unusual games, which include, of course, his famous frisbee.

IN A DAY'S WORK
Martin confers with his assistant Bill Bondurant.