Page Six
December 1, 1967
The Davidsonian

Richardson Fellows To Restudy Program
By GEORGE ALLEN
Staff Writer

The Richardson Fellowship program is undergoing a period of self-evaluation which Mike Mooty called "a healthy and necessary stage in the group’s development.” This evaluation is taking the form of both praise and criticism from the organization’s 12 members, Mooty, student chairman of the program founded last spring. One of the basic problems is that Fellows have not defined and agreed on a purpose for the program. Several felt that the organization's activities should be more directly related to Davidson and its student body. Some students questioned whether the funds for sponsoring the 12 members are being used as profitably as they might be if they were given directly to the school.

Another major criticism from the group concerned its inactivity. “This is the type of program that demands that something happen,” said one member. “So far not much has happened.” The reasons for the standstill seem to be that the members do not have enough time to work on the program and that the group itself is not so well organized as it should be. Mooty attributed the lack of organization to the nature of the program itself. “Because of the flexibility of the program, it will always be in the organizing stage. The Richardson Foundation of Greensboro gives the financial means to accomplish any end which Fellows feel is desirable. The program can then develop according to what the group feels is necessary to accomplish as a group and to what the individual feels is necessary to accomplish as an individual.”

In response to the comment that the organization was not beneficial to the school, Mooty said, “Since the established school activities serve almost every practical purpose conceivable, I would like to see the Richardson Fellowship program perform a creative function for the school and community. I think that the organization can make a unique contribution to both the school and the community in its development of responsible college graduates.”

In answering the statement that the program was static, Mooty listed the activities that the organization has participated in up until now. These activities have included seminars with lawyer Hugh Cannon, Congressman George Burns, and Theodore Runyun, a representative of Candler School of Theology at Emory University. The group also attended a conference at Chapel Hill on the problems of the 1980s. Also at this conference were the Richardson Fellows at the University of North Carolina and Ohio University.

“I think the Richardson Fellowship is a great program because its scope stretches beyond the school community itself,” commented one. “The program wasn't designed for Davidson's benefit but rather to train men to take responsible positions of leadership when they graduate.” The same Fellow agreed, however, that the program “got off to a slow start and had some salvaging to do.” Mooty reported that this “salvaging” might take the shape of an activity-oriented program for the fellows.

Committee Seeks Drill Pranksters
Investigation of pranks during recent ROTC drills has been turned over to the Investigating Committee of the Student Council. Buddy Newsom, committee chairman, said last night he had already talked to several students about the incidents and planned further investigation. The matter was turned over to Newsom's committee by ROTC Brigade Commander Mike Powell following drill Tuesday, when a student or students throwing water on the troops from a third-floor window of Belk Dormitory accidentally knocked down a screen, which struck a cadet. The cadet, David Sams, a freshman, was not seriously injured. Several weeks ago cadets marching back to Belk were pelted by water balloons from a fourth-floor window.

IFC Clarifies Rules On Rush
The Interfraternity Council has made changes in the rush regulations for the informal rush period of the first semester. According to Bobby Vagt, vice president of the IFC, the changes were made to clarify the existing rules. The Council changed Rule IV, part three, to read: “No freshman shall be allowed at fraternity parties.” The rule previously specified parties registered with the Office of the Dean of Students. A new rule has been drawn up in order to clarify the definition of a party. The new party rule defines a party as “any activity carried out in proportions that leave the rushee with a corporate image of the fraternity.” The IFC also set up some guidelines for applying the new definition. At the fraternity houses, only four freshmen are allowed at any one time. At social gatherings, only five brothers and three freshmen are allowed. Social gatherings include parties at private homes, motel parties, and trips to commercial establishments. (This new definition does not include trips to Hattie’s.) The interpretation of the guidelines in each instance will be left to the IFC Judicial Board. “In making these changes,” said Vagt, “the IFC did not want to be too specific; yet at the same time, we did not want to be too lax.”

Student Council
(Continued From Page One)
The meeting was marked by the presence of the first non-member at a council meeting all year. Sophomore Jim Milholland said he attended the meeting “merely as an observer.” All students may attend Student Council meetings if they wish to do so.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS, HEYWARD CARTER, KERN PARKER, GEOFF SEAMANS, BILL SEIGLER, BOB TRAVERS
Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER, BOB REID
Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON, ROBERT PYEATT
Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL
Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN
Photograph Editor:
BILL OLSON
Photographers:
KEATON FONVIELLE, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists:
BURKEY BELSER, NAT HEYWARD, CULLUM ROGERS, MIKE SIGMAN
Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Sister Of Senior Exhibits Art Work
An assortment of oils, watercolors, charcoals, and lithographs by Ethel Gilmore, sister of Davidson senior Monroe Gilmore, is being exhibited this month in the lobby of the College Union. Miss Gilmore, who is currently studying in France, last year had exhibitions in the Cambridge Art Association spring exhibition, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology spring exhibition, and the Higgins Gallery in Boston.

Renovation Nears Completion
Renovation of Philanthropic and Eumenean halls is nearing completion, workmen reported this week. The upper floors have seen minor repairs, but downstairs the renovation has been major. The floors have been tiled, outside steps repaired, and new furniture and central air conditioning added. All that remains to be done on the two buildings, part of the college’s original quadrangle, is the painting of the upstairs windows and the removal of debris. (Staff Photo by Weems).

Committee Notes Promising Start
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The newly formed Student Life Committee, one of the new faculty committees recommended by the Blue Sky Committee, has gotten off to a strong start, committee members agreed this week. “I think we've got a good groundwork established,” said Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, committee chairman. “There are going to be some good results coming out of it,” said Tom Earnhardt, Student Council president and one of three students serving on the committee. The mood of optimism seemed to be the consensus among committee members. Dr. J. B. Stroud, associate professor of mathematics and secretary of the committee, said, “I think it's aVery healthy exchange.’ Three Theological Generations Present In Church, Leith Claims By BOB TRAVERS Associate Editor Dr. John Leith of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond presented a picture of the church in a chapel speech Thursday as an institution with three major problems in the modern world. The professor of historical theology said the church is first, composed of three theological generations — pre-Barthian, Barthian, and post-Barthian — which are frequently in conflict. The second problem, he told the largely absent — physically or at least mentally — audience, is the problem of the necessity of converting the church from rural and agricultural orientation to urban and industrial. The final problem is, he said, that the church — and especially the Presbyterian Church — has too closely identified the life of middle-class society with the Kingdom of God. In this way, modern Protestantism presents a real peril to society in that it cannot distinguish really important issues from those which are transient and relatively unimportant. To illustrate this point, he quoted briefly from a modern poem which presented the modern clergyman and laymen prescribing a guaranteed method for success in the modern world: “to spit-polish your shoes and cut short your hair.” The seminary professor, speaking in the tones of a Sunday morning sermon, reached his conclusion of the existence of three such problems for the church by speaking of major periods of theological development which profoundly affect the individual raised in a Protestant culture and ethics. Those periods were, as he saw them, the Protestant Reformation, the consolidation of Protestant theology, the crisis of the Enlightenment, the Barthian era, and the modern, post-Barthian era.

Ensemble To Play In Honor Of Rusk Sixteen members of the Wind Ensemble will present a short program next Wednesday for a meeting of the National Association of Manufacturers in New York City. The all-brass group, plus one percussionist, will fly to New York on Tuesday afternoon, accompanied by Dr. Grier Williams, associate professor of music. They will perform in the Grand Ball Room of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.

Constitution (Continued From Page One) One of these is that the Student Council, having only 15 members, is not large enough to represent the student body effectively. Another criticism is that the present representation is based on class groupings. Bates has said, however, classes have become less important at Davidson than residence hall groups, and more representation should therefore be based on the residence halls. Election and structural weakness in the present Constitution are the basis for further criticism. Members of the Constitution Revision Committee are Bates, Dick Allison, Anderson, Bud Cousar, Tom Earnhardt, Fletcher Hartsell, Harrison Higgins, Peter Hobbie, Mike Powell, and Bill Watson. Earnhardt, as president of the student body, is an ex-officio member, while Higgins and Allison are freshmen selected from the Freshman Council. The subcommittee on the bill of rights is composed of Hartsell, the chairman, Danny White, Pat Mullen, and Jim Robinson. The Constitution Committee has also appointed a subcommittee to deal with the by-laws, for which it is also responsible. This subcommittee, consisting of Peter Hobbie and Anderson, reported Thursday night with proposals for by-laws and standing rules for the Senate. The by-laws, which cover elections, judicial procedure, and student government agencies such as the Union Board, Publications Board, and Social Council, were not in final form and received only tentative approval. Sections of the by-laws dealing with elections and student government agencies are to appear as charts to facilitate reading the by-laws and finding items related to specific subjects.

Forty-eight Applicants Accepted On Early Decision Plan Forty-eight high school seniors were accepted at Davidson this week by the Admissions Office on the college’s early decision program. The number represents a slight drop from last year in early decision acceptances, according to Jon Regen, assistant director of admissions. Regen said approximately 75 had applied for early decision, also a drop from last year. The purpose of the early decision program is two-fold, Regen said. “From the standpoint of the applicant who is sure that Davidson is where he wants to go, it enables him to complete the entire application process early. “On our (the admissions office) part, it enables us to nail down a certain number who are sure to enroll.”

“Frankly, in the two months we've been organized, nobody could expect us to make a big splash on campus,” said Burts. Stroud also stressed the newness of the committee. Earnhardt, however, said that the committee had made definite progress in several areas. One of the committee’s earliest recommendations was that at least two students should serve on all faculty committees. The committee also deliberated for several of its weekly meetings on the proposed Residence Hall Association Constitution. However, due to a conflict between the new Student Body Constitution being prepared by a Student Council committee and the Residence Hall Association Constitution, the subject was deferred until the conflict could be resolved. Burts stressed that the committee was not committed to any principles at the outset, and that the purpose of establishing the committee was to re-examine Davidson's social, intellectual, and religious life. In particular, Burts said that the committee was not committed to the principle of loco parentis. He said that the committee was re-evaluating this idea along with the other principles underlying the present faculty rules and regulations. “We want to work out the dichotomy on campus between the faculty regulations and the student body regulations,” said Earnhardt. Earnhardt said that the committee is also dealing with the problems of drugs and liquor on campus. Members of the committee are Chairman Burts, Secretary Stroud, Professors R. D. Kaylor, Norman Johnson, T. A. Williams, W. G. Workman, A. A. Wolf, and students Earnhardt, Bill Andrews, and Randy Phillips.

WESTERN AUTO Western Union Telegrams PHONE: 892-6581 Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone 332-2414 Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub The slim double-breasted... Lancer by London Fog Handsome touch for the man who knows what's what, when, and where, rain or shine. Slim double-breasted styling with side vents. British tan and black-white checks. 45.00

Assistant Sports Editors: JOHN VISER ROCKY CROSSWHITE Advertising Manager: DANNY WHITE JACK WELLMAN News Editor: DUNHAM Circulation Manager: Pipe Smoker La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd. (Faculty and Students) SEE THE NEW LONDON FOG CAR COATS This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. Contributors this week: Ashley Kline, Lewis Lavine, Glenn Mauney, John Bollinger, Ben Garrett, Mark Wingate, John Williams, Paul Rowland, Danny Coltrane, Dick Anderson, Richard Cowart, Allen Lewis, George Allen, David Cook, Rob Krehbiel, Chuck Green, Jim Cooley, Bill Warren, James Roland, and Gary Fagg. John Mack & Son Mooresville, N. C. Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036 217 N. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 26202