WEATHER
Charlotte and vicinity: Mostly fair and cool tonight. Partly cloudy on Saturday and Sunday. Probability of rain through Saturday is
zero. Low tonight—50; high Saturday—75; low Saturday night—53; high Sunday—75.

BEAUTIES SEEK HOMECOMING CROWN (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1967
VOL. LVII NUMBER FIVE

College Hits Top 9 Months Early

Nine months ahead of schedule, Davidson has reached and exceeded its Ford Challenge Campaign goal of $5.5 million in gifts
and pledges, President D. Grier Martin announced tonight. In June of 1968, when all gifts have been received and all
pledges paid in the campaign, Davidson will qualify for $2.2 million in challenge funds from the Ford Foundation, the president
said.

“This splendid result... is tangible evidence that the college can reach its long-range ‘Decade of Destiny’ goal of $25,300,000 by
1975,” he said. National fund drive co-chairmen William A. White, Jr. of Charlotte and Walter L. Lingle, Jr. of Cincinnati,
Ohio, praised the hundreds of volunteer regional workers and alumni class agents who made the largest financial drive in Davidson's
history a success.

Davidson's “Decade of Destiny” program for the period 1965-1975 was formulated on the basis of studies in 1963-1964, which found
that during those 10 years the college would need about $25,300,000. This money is “to provide an educational program second
to none, to double its endowment and thus assure adequate financial undergirding, to acquire and hold the ablest, most imaginative
teachers, to maintain a student level of 1,000 outstanding men and to upgrade the present physical facilities,” Martin said.

Ford Grant ‘First Step To Destiny’

Davidson's Ford Foundation Challenge Campaign, just announced a success, began in 1961 when the Ford Foundation earmarked $100 million of
its resources to help leading independent liberal arts colleges in the United States. So stringent were the requirements for qualification
that only five liberal arts colleges in the South had been awarded a Ford challenge grant in 1965. Davidson was
one of the five.

“The Ford Challenge grant comes at a particularly opportune time,” President D. Grier Martin said in June 1965, “because Davidson
has just finished an intensive and comprehensive study of what it must do if it is to fulfill its goal
to become the best possible liberal arts college for men.” The Ford Challenge grant is the first step in Davidson's
“Decade of Destiny” program, which has as its goal the raising of $25,300,000 over a 10-year period.

To be eligible for a challenge grant from the Ford Foundation, a college had to exhibit a “tradition of scholarship,
plans and ability to make pace-setting improvements, high-quality leadership, strong support from alumni and other sources, and a well-developed plan
for the improvement of education.” In addition, each grant had several conditions. For ev- (See FORD, Page 6)

Official—No Vespers

Compulsory church attendance for students was officially discontinued today by the trustees. Accepting a recommendation of its Religious Life Committee,
the Board made permanent the suspension of Vespers it had recommended in the spring of 1966. In making the announcement,
President D. Grier Martin emphasized that it was still possible for the trustees to reinstate compulsory religious services at any
time they wished. However, he said that the action of the trustees removed the idea that the reinstatement of such
services is any sort of threat hanging over the students.

NOW ANOTHER DRIVE

Martin (L) and benefactor Little

Davidson Meets Ford's Challenge, Turns Attention To Plans For $2 Million Library

1970 Target Date Set To Match Little’s Gift

A challenge of $500,000 has been made to Davidson College by Edward H. Little of New York City if the
school will raise an additional $1,500,000 for a $2 million library/learning center here. President D. Grier Martin this afternoon announced
the gift by Little, former chairman of Davidson’s Board of Visitors and former chairman of the board of the Colgate-Palmolive
Company, only hours after it was announced that Davidson's Ford Foundation Challenge Campaign goal had been met.

The trustees immediately began mapping plans to determine the structure of the new library/learning center so that construction could begin
as soon as sufficient contributions are received.

Fraternity Compromise Finds Trustees’ Favor

The Board of Trustees today passed the Davidson fraternity presidents’ proposal for an extended rush program as a solution to
the fraternity affiliation problem. The plan will go into effect in February. The proposal had been endorsed by the faculty
and by national representatives of four of Davidson's fraternities earlier this week.

The compromise solution is an extended rush program for those not receiving bids during the formal rushing period. Only those
who do not receive bids are eligible. Such a rushee would be allowed to participate in the fraternities' social activities
for two months. If either the fraternity or the rushee is not satisfied with the relationship, then the rushee is
issued another invitation. The program will be up for review by the IFC and the fraternity presidents next spring—about 3
months after the plan has been put into effect, Tom Covington, fraternity administration liaison officer, said.

The compromise solution to the fraternity affiliation problem submitted by the presidents of Davidson’s 12 national fraternities was approved by
the faculty at its Tuesday meeting. The faculty voted “to authorize the IFC and the presidents of the fraternities to
implement the proposed plan for an extended rush period for those not receiving bids during the formal rush period.”

HOMECOMING ’67—FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13

8:15 p.m. Concert Anna Russell Davidson Artist Series Love Auditorium
10:30-2:30 a.m. Combo Party “The Sounds of Soul” Morrison Room, Union
2:30-4:30 a.m. Blanket Concert “The Three D's” Morrison Room, Union
4:30-5 a.m. Free Coffee and Donuts Union Lobby
5-7 a.m. (No Kiddin’) Free Horror Flick Morrison Room

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14

11:30 a.m. Annual Alumni Cookout Union Lawn
2 p.m. Davidson vs. Presbyterian College Richardson Stadium
5:15 Meet Homer Smith Morrison Room, Union
5:30 Steak Supper Union
8 Concert “The Platters” Love Auditorium
10:30-1 a.m. Free Movie “Rio Conchos” Morrison Room, Union
1-3 Jake Holmes Morrison Room, Union

Blue Sky Plans May Be Postponed

Implementation of the proposed Blue Sky curriculum was postponed today, at least tentatively, by the Board of Trustees. The Board
accepted in principle the major tenets of the proposal, but at the same time decided for financial reasons to hold
off on formal approval.

President D. Grier Martin cited as the trustees’ chief motivating factor the growing financial pinch that Davidson and other private
colleges are currently facing. He estimated it would take at least $1.5 million to fund the initial steps of the
program and added: “We have finally faced up to the tragic news that we as a small private college could
perhaps not manage this at this time.”

If the college is unable to put the program into effect by next year, as originally planned, then it will
aim for implementation in the fall of 1969, Martin said. According to Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president, the trustees
are to have a called meeting to approve the program when the President and Finance Committee decide that resources are
available.Committee, consisting of representatives of the faculty and administration and two non-voting students, was organized last fall. The curriculum proposals
it released in May included a three-semester academic calendar, discontinuation of compulsory ROTC, the establishment of an honors college, and
the introduction of achievement examinations at the end of the sophomore year. The trustees’ decision today is not final, Martin
said, “but it is an indication that the program won't get going in the coming year. We felt that we
would be negligent in not taking a wait-and-see attitude.” Martin said that while the trustees agreed in principle with the
proposal's major planks, they held small reservations concerning some of the details.

The national fraternity officials, who met Thursday with Davidson fraternity presidents, represented Pi Kappa Phi, Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, and Sigma Nu. The general feeling of the national representatives at the conclusion of the meeting was one of
satisfaction concerning the proposal. One representative, Dick Fletcher, executive secretary of Sigma Nu, speaking as an unofficial spokesman for the
group, said, "All of our questions have been answered."

SENIORS

“We hope to be able to start the library/learning center by 1970," Martin stated. “This splendid and generous gift, coming
from one of Davidson's most loyal friends and devoted benefactors, will be an integral part of our ‘Decade of Destiny’
program,” the President added. Little made the gift in memory of his wife, Suzanne Trezevant Little, and his mother, Ella
Howie Little. Davidson's first air-conditioned dormitory is named in his honor, and he has made significant contributions to campaigns which
financed such important campus structures as the Dana Science Laboratories and the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Both the library funds
and the Ford Foundation funds are major parts of Davidson's “Decade of Destiny” program, begun in 1965. Previous studies had
found that the college would need to raise $25,300,000 during 1965-1975 to be able “to provide an educational program second
to none, to double its endowment and thus assure adequate financial undergirding, to acquire and hold the ablest, most imaginative
teachers, to maintain a student level of 1,000 outstanding men, and to upgrade the present physical facilities," Martin noted.

Little was born on a Mecklenburg County farm not far from Davidson and as a youth began selling soap products.
By 1930 he had become president and chief executive officer and by 1953 chairman of the board and chief executive
officer of Colgate-Palmolive Company. Responsible for many innovations in the company’s growth, he developed its potential to serve many foreign
countries as well. He retired from the company in 1961.

Both Grey Library, completed in 1940, and the Mary Reynolds Babcock Library Wing, completed in 1958, will play key roles
in the future. Plans are under consideration to use these units as a special research library, a study center for
honors students, an alumni house, a faculty center, a learning center, or a combination of these.

Manor Is New Site Of Library

The new E. H. Little Library will be located at the present Lingle Manor site. That location was accepted today
by the Board of Trustees, which approved the recommendation of its Buildings and Grounds Committee by a nearly unanimous vote.
“We're glad to have that decision made," said President D. Grier Martin. “We have walked and walked and walked around
the campus over the last year trying to decide on this thing.” The trustees’ decision climaxed several months of discussion,
speculation, and haggling over the site. A number of locations had been mentioned, but Martin said the trustees felt the
Lingle Manor site was the best. “There is plenty of parking space, no trees that will have to be cut
down and it's convenient for the students,” he said. Also considered by the Board were a site across Concord Road
and a site in front of the Guest House and Watts and Little Dormitories. The Concord Road site had been
openly favored by the student body and the library staff. In a poll last spring, 506 students indicated they preferred
that site. Only 47 put the Lingle Manor site first.

Who’s Who Taps 21

The selection of 21 seniors for Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges was announced Tuesday by Dr.
Richard C. Burts, dean of students. Who's Who is a national honorary organization that recognizes men and women who are
active on their campuses.

B. A. Aiken is president of the College Union and is a member of the Social Council and Sigma Upsilon,
honorary literary fraternity. Associate Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Bilt Andrews is also president of the Red and Black Masquers and
a member of the faculty Student Life Subcommittee. Westray Battle, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, is also treasurer of the
Social Council and a member of the Young Republicans Club. Sam Boyte is editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and serves as
a member of the Board of the College Union. He is chairman of the Publications Board. Freshman Camp Director Cecil
Clifton is a member of the Honor Court and serves as vice president of Alpha Tau Omega. Gus Cochran is
president of the Interfraternity Council, Kappa Alpha, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity. Tom Earnhardt is
president of the Student Council and is also president of the Debate Club. Frank Fleming is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and serves as vice president of the Wind Ensemble. YMCA Board Member Monroe Gilmour is
co-scoutmaster of Troop 75, Davidson, and is an assistant at the nursery for four-year-olds at the college church. Sam Hatcher
is a member of ODK, Kappa Alpha, and is a tennis letterman. Steve Humphrey is president of ODK and is
also a member of the Honor Court Investigation Committee and chairman of YMCA Great Issues Program. Ron Hunt is chairman
of the Honor Court, president of Phi Delta Theta, and a member of ODK. Social Council Chairman David Jennings is
president of the board of the College Union and a tennis letterman. Bobby Lane is student member of the Blue
Sky Committee, chairman of the Faculty Student Life Subcommittee, and a member of ODK. Dick Lindsey is president of the
YMCA, a letterman in both baseball and football, and a member of Kappa Alpha. President of Beta Theta Pi Mike
Mooty is vice chairman of the Honor Court and student director of the Richardson Fellows Program. Miscellany Co-Editor Buddy Newsom
is a member of the Honor Court Investigation Committee and is secretary of Phi Delta Theta. Julian Prosser is a
member of the male chorus, a letterman in wrestling, and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. Quips and Cranks Editor
Kirk Reed is a member of ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and Kappa Alpha. Ken Scott is business manager of the
College Union, vice president of the Male Chorus, and a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Bilt Watson is
president of the Senior Class, chairman of the Student Body Regulations Court, business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
