CONSTITUTION REVIVES SPIRIT OF ’87 (See Page Two) VOL. LV The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1967 STUDENTS BEEF ABOUT FOOD (See Page Three) NUMBER TWELVE STUDENT LIFE SUBCOMMITTEE Report Proposes Changes In Athletics, Social Life By GEORGE ALLEN Staff Writer Sweeping changes for student life are being proposed in the Blue Sky Subcommittee Report on Student Life, which is now being considered by the Blue Sky Committee. The report suggests many changes, including: —Non-subsidized athletics; —Strengthened extracurricular programs; —Renovation and construction of dormitories; —A total reorganization of and increased opportunities for student social life, to include drinking on campus. Proposed changes fall into three categories, according to senior Bobby Lane, subcommittee chairman. They are: the functional relationship of the college to the student, the professional relationships of student to college, and the personal relationship of student to college. In athletics, the report recommends that Davidson implement a vigorous non-subsidized program. This would mean that a greater emphasis would be placed on intramural athletics and that intercollegiate competition would be with schools nearer Davidson's size. The committee recommends that Davidson seek membership in the College Athletic Conference, which is composed of such schools as the University of the South and Washington and Lee University. In the area of interpersonal relationships, the report recommends changes for dormitory life, the College Union, and social life organization. The residence hall proposals call for larger dormitories equipped with lounges, suites, storage areas, and kitchenettes. These changes would demand a substantial capital outlay, but the subcommittee indicated that these changes would be worth the expense. The subcommittee implies the abolishment of the fraternity system and suggests uses for the houses on Patterson Court. In the subcommittee outline, seven of the houses would be used as dining halls open to all students. Under the assumption that a new building would be constructed, the College Union cafeteria would serve as another dining hall for those students who could not be accommodated at the houses on Patterson Court. The remaining five houses would be used for academic and administrative purposes. One house would become a record library and art studio; the second would be a guest house annex; the third would house the placement bureau; the fourth would be a foreign language center; and the fifth would serve as a visual aids center. Recommendations for a new Union include more lounges and television rooms, a snack bar, and a Rathskellar serving beer and wine. Concerning student religious life, the report states that if the college is going to take its religious commitment seriously, it must commit more financial resources to it. The report suggests that a revitalization of cultural activities and the functioning of special interest groups (clubs, music, etc.) is needed. It specifically recommends the organization of short-term discussion groups dealing with a specific topic. These might meet for a short period, say for several weeks, and might be organized like the present Committee Wants Senate, the Duke Athletic Department had reserved no tickets for Davidson students for the game in Durham this year. The resolution reads: “At its meeting of Dec. 5, the Student Council expressed the view that some tickets should be made available to students supporting opposing teams at all Coliseum games. “Opposing teams should always have the benefit of support from students representing their institutions. In the interest of hospitality, we hope that such a policy will become standard practice. “Specifically, the council voted to make 1,000 tickets available to Duke University for its faculty and students for the game to be played on Feb. 19, 1969, at the Charlotte Coliseum. “Since this is always an important game for the teams of both Davidson and Duke, we feel that it is only fair that these tickets be made available to Duke with the stipulation that all unsold tickets be returned within 10 days of the game.” After heated discussion of Duke’s failure to provide at least some tickets for this year’s game, the council decided that a copy of the resolution ought to be sent to Duke immediately following the Jan. 3 game. Franklin Anderson, member of the Constitution Revision Committee, told the council about the “compromise” which would allow the Saturday, December 9 8 p.m. Basketball Davidson vs. Michigan Sunday, December 10 6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball Charlotte Coliseum Davidson vs. Duke Charlotte Coliseum 8 p.m. Christmas Vespers College Church “Haydn Mass No. 2 in C Major” Monday, December 11 4:45 p.m. Chamber Music Concert College Church 8 p.m. Movie “Sink the Bismarck” College Union Tuesday, December 12 10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium Dr. Charles Ratliff 4:30 p.m. Student Body Constitution College Union Open Meeting 7:30 p.m. German Films 8 p.m. Basketball Nashville, Tenn. Davidson vs Vanderbilt 8 p.m. Movie College Union Wednesday, December 13 8 p.m. Movie College Union Thursday, December 14 10:20 a.m. Chapel Love Auditorium 8 p.m. Union Christmas Party College Union Resolution Asks Ticket Reserve By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer Student Council Secretary Sam Darby proposed Tuesday a resolution that the Davidson Athletic Department reserve 1,000 tickets for Duke students at the Davidson-Duke basketball game next season in the Charlotte Coliseum. The proposal highlighted a somewhat rowdy council meeting and followed an announcement by President Tom Earnhardt that proposed Residence Hall Association (RHA) to be provided for in the proposed By-Laws of the new Student Body Constitution. Anderson said the RHA would be governed by a Residence Hall Committee, provided for in the By-Laws, consisting of proportionate representation from all dormitories. The representative can be either a member of the Student Government Senate or not, he said, according to the wishes of the dormitory. ROTC Slated For Inspection The faculty will meet Tuesday to consider the proposals of the Blue Sky Committee on ROTC. The Tuesday meeting has been scheduled so that the faculty can consider and act upon the proposals before the meeting of the Board of Trustees on Dec. 20. The Blue Sky recommendation calls for continuation of the ROTC Program on a voluntary basis with no academic credit being given during the first two years. The faculty met several weeks ago to act on the Blue Sky proposals, but they postponed action on the ROTC section due to the absence of Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science. Tickets To Student Body By BOB DUNHAM News Editor The Duke University Athletic Department announced this week that it would not provide any tickets to Davidson students for the Duke-Davidson basketball game Jan. 3. The announcement sparked a series of reactions and counter-actions from both personnel of the Davidson Athletic Department and students. In making the announcement, Duke Athletic Director Eddie Cameron said, “We just don't have the tickets at this time. If we have any left over after our students are taken care of, we will send them to Davidson, but that appears very unlikely at this time.” “Our gymnasium seats 8,500,” said Cameron. “We sold 3,500 season tickets, which leaves 5,000 tickets for our students. Due to the size of the Duke student body, this won't even be enough for our own students. And we must take care of our students first.” Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson athletic director, expressed his regrets about the action, but said the matter of ticket sales is up to the individual school. “It happens all over the country,” Scott said. “If a school decides not to give the visiting team any tickets, it is their prerogative.” “I wrote in September, asking for 200 to 500 tickets,” said Basketball Coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell, “but they (Duke) told me they couldn't do that. They said they had to take care of their students first.” Adding that Davidson would not give Duke any seats next year, Driesell said, “Their move just does not make sense.” Informed of Driesell's statement, Cameron said he was “not upset.” Government Association By BOB TRAVERS Associate Editor The final draft of the new Student BodyConstitution, which was officially released by the Constitution Revision Committee to the Student Council this morning, calls for drastic changes in the structure of student government and in the area of student rights. An open forum on the Constitution will be held Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Members of the constitution committee will be present to explain and discuss the draft.

The Constitution calls for the creation of a Student Government Association (SGA) consisting of all regularly enrolled students. The SGA will elect a Senate as its legislative unit and a president and vice president to head its executive unit, the Senate Executive Committee (SEC). The Constitution also attempts to spell out the rights and responsibilities of the students in Article IV, which has become known as the Bill of Rights. This part of the constitution attempts to protect the academic freedom of students. It will attempt to prevent professors from determining course grades on any basis except academic accomplishment. It will also prevent unreasonable searches of dormitory rooms and student cars. All searches will require a search warrant which will specify what is to be searched and for what purpose. Such warrants will be good for 12 hours.

The Senate will have 23 members. Each class will elect three members, and nine members will be elected from all dormitories, distributed according to the number of residents in each dorm. The president of the SGA, who will serve as moderator of the Senate, and the vice president constitute the remaining members of the Senate. The Constitution also calls for the creation of a Court of Appeals to handle any constitutional questions and appeals from the Honor Court and the Student Regulations Court, which will continue to exist, although the regulations court has been renamed Student Government Court.

Local AAUP Members Praise New Rights Bill
By DAVID COOK
Staff Writer

The proposed Bill of Rights drew a number of favorable comments yesterday at an open meeting of the local chapter of the American Association of University Professors. About two dozen professors and a handful of students reviewed both the Bill of Rights and a document of the AAUP national organization and found them to be quite similar. Time did not permit discussion of the entire Bill of Rights, and the local AAUP took no definite stand on it. The professors agreed to meet again sometime after Christmas.

Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, registrar and associate dean of the faculty, said afterwards that “any action on the provisions of the two reports should be a cooperative endeavor—a two-way street between students and faculty.” The major point of discussion during the meeting was the matter of confidential student reports. Ostwalt, agreeing with the recommendations of both the national AAUP and the proposed Bill of Rights, said “a general administrative rule should be passed requiring written permission from the student in order to release a record.” The professors also touched on the problem of “improper” academic evaluation and the role of the Controversial Speakers Committee, which sets speaker policy.

Student Is Campused In Drinking Violation

A junior found guilty of possession of alcohol on campus was restricted to campus until March 23 by the Faculty Committee on Student Discipline Thursday night. The student said that he would appeal the decision to the Faculty Executive Committee, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said. The alleged violation occurred last Friday night. Security officer Al Carriker discovered the violation. Concurrent with the campusing sentence is disciplinary probation, Burts said. The student's parents have been notified of the action.

The appeal, if carried out, will be the first appeal from the Student Discipline Committee to the Executive Committee under the new Faculty Constitution instituted this fall. Therefore, appeal procedures have not yet been determined, Burts said. However, appeal proceedings must be begun in the next five days. It is not known whether the appeal will be held before the Christmas holidays or not, Burts said. The penalty has no effect until the final appeal is concluded. Burts said that the student did not dispute the details of the incident. Carriker was not present but had sent in a report. The student was to confer with Burts today about beginning appeal proceedings.

Stimulus programs. The subcommittee suggests that the college implement a new code of conduct, containing a Code of Intellectual Responsibility and a Code of Social Responsibility. The former would set forth standards of honor in academic work; the latter would serve as a guide for the student in his relationship with his community. Lane commented on the future of the report, now under consideration. “I am fearful,” he said, “that the report or sections of the report are going to get lost in the administrative quagmire of the committee structure. It seems to me that, at the very least, this report raises some serious questions concerning the area of student life at Davidson College which have not been dealt with as deeply as they should have been,” Lane said.

Other committee members are: Dr. Anthony Abbott, secretary; Bill Andrews, John W. Gresham, Hansford Epes and Drs. A. B. Brinkley, James G. Martin, W. G. McGavock, Charles Ratliff.

Proposed Constitution Seeks Student Rights

COLLEGE GETS GRANT

For the second straight year, Texaco Inc. has presented Davidson a $1,500 unrestricted grant. The Texaco funds will be used by the college to strengthen its faculty salary budget, according to President D. Grier Martin. Presentation of the check to Martin was made Wednesday by William J. Rendleman (R) of Texaco’s Greensboro office. (Photo by Davidson News Bureau.)

Proposed Dump Site Draws Citizens’ Ire
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

A proposal by the Mecklenburg County Commissioners that a garbage disposal area be located just outside the Davidson town limits began gathering opposition this week. The Commissioners stressed that the disposal area would be a “land fill,” but concerned citizens led by Bill Bondurant, assistant to President D. Grier Martin, labeled it a “dump” and began circulating petitions in protest. The Commissioners’ proposal, contingent upon the approval of the Davidson town board, asks that the garbage disposal area be located one mile south of town on Concord Road. The main purpose of the “land fill” is to cover over a gully-filled area, according to Dr. James G. Martin, Commissioners’ chairman and Davidson chemistry professor. “We have authorized a full-time position for an equipment operator to ensure daily attention to the coverage of refuse,” he said.

However, Bondurant, a resident of the area, cited odor and a decrease in land value as two criticisms. “The town already has a rodent problem of serious concern to a number of her residents,” he said. “A nearby garbage dump would compound this problem immensely.” Martin promised to have trees planted along the road to shield the dump from view. However, Bondurant said that this idea was as “unpersuasive as trees allegedly shielding automobile graveyards from view.”

Fire Rule Fails To Earn Majority

The proposed Fire Rule amendment to the Student Body Constitution was defeated Thursday when it failed to receive the two-thirds voter majority necessary for passage. The vote was 175-145 in favor of the amendment, but 212 was necessary for the two-thirds majority. One student cast a neutral ballot. An earlier election Tuesday was invalidated because ballots were distributed to the freshmen in assembly. According to the Constitution, freshmen are not allowed to vote until second semester. Student Council President Tom Earhhardt said he was “disappointed with the election,” but added that he hoped it would “make students aware of the danger of setting even a small fire in the dormitories.”

Blood Drive Set For Dec. 10, 11

The annual ROTC blood drive is scheduled for Monday and Tuesday. Blood will be received from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. each day in Johnston Gymnasium, under the supervision of the American Red Cross.