Page Four November 10, 1937 The Davidsonian

Expert Analyzes Saucer Sighting

An expert in the field of unidentified flying objects presented and evaluated information concerning "flying saucers" and showed a 30-second film clip of one of these sightings in chapel Tuesday. "These flying saucers," commented James Moseley, editor of a UFO publication called Saucer News, "go back as far as the Bible." Moseley cited numerous examples of sightings, which may have occurred as long as 2300 years ago. These sightings, he said, varied in credibility. They have been particularly numerous since World War II, he continued.

In one of the more humorous sightings, a family in Kentucky was surrounded by a landing party of small, human-shaped aliens. The aliens were frightened off only by repeated shotgun blasts from the family taking refuge inside their house. Moseley then cited several UFO sightings by large groups and by reputable individuals in the community. "I tend to believe that there is some truth in these stories," he said. "I don't know about all of them, but some of them would seem to be true," noting similarities in the stories and the lack of reason for their fabrication.

The short film clip, which purportedly showed a UFO sighted in West Virginia, showed a saucer-shaped object darting back and forth with tree leaves in the foreground. "As for the triviality of the saucers' activity, that makes me more convinced," Moseley commented in a coffee hour held afterward. "These people, or whatever they are, don't think in our thought pattern. They might be as much afraid of us as we are of them."

Moseley also did some speculating on the origin of the saucers. "They could be from our own earth," he said, pointing out that many areas of South America were completely unexplored. "More likely, I would assume, the saucers came from a planet nearer our own home," he concluded. (Staff Photo by Weems)

GREEN MEN NON-EXISTENT Spacemen humanoid claims Moseley.

Seniors Apply For Danforths

Seniors Bill Andrews, Charles Perry, and Danny Layman have been nominated by the college for Danforth Graduate fellowships, according to the Faculty Committee on Graduate Fellowships. Nine students from Davidson applied for the fellowships, which are designated primarily for those interested in college teaching careers and are worth up to $2400 a year.

Andrews, an English honors major from Richmond, Va., is associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, president of the Red and Black Masquers, and a member of the faculty Student Life Subcommittee, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Who's Who.

YES Compliments STEP’s Program

Two representatives of Youth Educational Services (YES) from Durham analyzed the Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP) and were "quite pleased" with it, said Bobby King, head of STEP. STEP is affiliated with YES and receives tutoring materials from the organization. King said that STEP currently has supplied a tutor for every tutee it has and so is operating at full strength. There are 58 students tutoring, with 22 at Cornelius Elementary School and the rest at Davidson Elementary.

STAMP IT! IT'S THE RAGE REGULAR STYLE, POCKET RUBBER STAMP. 1" x 2" $1.00. Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charge. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed. THE MOPP CO., P.O. Box 18623, Atlanta, GA, 30326.

Both Perry and Layman are history majors. Perry, from Greensboro, N. C., is a member of Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Beta Kappa honorary scholastic fraternity. Layman, from Maryville, Tenn., a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, is participating in the history honors program.

Producer Slates Ski Lecture, Films

Hans Gmoser, an Austrian-born producer of ski films, will bring his latest productions, Selkirk Rendezvous and The High Road to Skiing, to Davidson Wednesday under the auspices of the Union Travel Committee. The showing will be in the Morrison Room of the College Union at 8:00 Wednesday evening. Gmoser will also give a lecture on skiing. Ed Embree, vice president of the Union, said that the committee is considering a ski trip during semester break, but the trip has not been planned yet.

TESTS SET TUESDAY College Placement Bureau Readies For Rush Season

(Staff Photo by Fonvielle) KEEPING THEM OUT OF TROUBLE Bondurant offers help to students.

By BILL SPENCER Staff Writer

All those seniors who are still uncertain about what they want to do with their lives would do well to get in touch quickly with C. Shaw Smith’s College Placement Bureau, Assistant Dean of Students Tom Covington said this week. Smith, the college's director of placement, will launch preparations next week for the spring placement season with a battery of intelligence and vocational tests.Helps Solve Student Legal Problems
By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

Part of William L. Bondurant's job as assistant to the president and legal advisor to the college is to aid students who fall afoul of the law. Bondurant said, “So many students don't realize that when they are off on a lark somewhere, an apparently small violation of the law with apparently simple consequences today may be paid for to a far greater degree later when the student applies for graduate school, an Army commission, or a Rhodes Scholarship.”

His job as legal adviser has three phases. While the college's major legal work is done by a Charlotte attorney, Bondurant handles the day-by-day chores. Secondly, he said, “I have an arrangement with the Dean of Students whereby if a student finds himself in legal difficulty and needs an attorney or someone associated with the college, I could help him with no duty on my part to report the student to the college.” He said the purpose of the arrangement is to keep a student from getting into more trouble by running away from trouble because they might be afraid to seek help.

In the third phase of his job, Bondurant said he could help a student present his case if he did run afoul of the law.

BUTTON-DOWN
Very special our Gant oxford button-down—Its flare, its fit, the superb quality of the oxford cotton fabric, the casual roll of the collar. All these attributes are exclusively Gant—all reasons why we carry this distinctive brand. Come in and see our new color selection.
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N.C.
Greenville, S.C.

Monday—Friday
The SWAIN'S
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.
Hub CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 332-2414

Come gather ‘round