”SIN CONFERENCE PLAY Basemen Open With Split

JACK SMITH CONNECTS AGAINST WILLIAM AND MARY
Fielder Garners RBI’s To Scalp Visiting Redmen

Fogleman Net Ninth Victory
By DANNY WHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson's surging netmen won their ninth straight match yesterday by routing Harvard, 6-2, in the season's best-played and most exciting
match. Depth was the deciding factor in the match. Number one and number two men Pinky Hatcher and Esmond Phelps
were beaten in singles matches, but Dan Hearon, Peter Parrott, Geordie Mueller, and Dave Jennings copped victories. The doubles teams
of Phelps-Hearon and Jennings-Bruce Weidner added victories. The Hatcher-Parrott team match, the most exciting of the day, was called because
of darkness with each team having won one set.

“I believe the turning point of the match was Mueller's singles victory,” said team captain Peter Parrott. “He lost the
first set, 9-11, but won the last two, 6-3, 6-3, to give us a 4-2 lead in team score. We
knew we could win one doubles match.”

“This certainly is a satisfying victory,” said Coach Harry Fogleman. “We are improving all the time.”

Earlier in the week, the Cat netmen presented Fogleman with the 300th victory of his 22-year tennis coaching career when
they defeated a surprisingly tough East Stroudsburg team, 6-3. Phelps and Hearon provided the winning point with their doubles victory.

“We're happy we could be the team that gave Coach Fogleman this victory,” said Hatcher. “He certainly has had an
illustrious career, and this milestone of 300 victories is an indication of his success.”

The netmen currently have a 9-1 record with four of the victories coming during the spring tour in Florida over
the spring break. The racketeers crushed Florida Southern, 9-0, at Lakeland on March 27 to start the tour. The match
against powerful Rollins was rained out on the 28th. The team put down Jacksonville, 7-2, and Hope, 8-1, on consecutive
days at Winter Park. The squad closed the Southern tour in Atlanta on April 1 beating Emory, 7-2.

“We had a very successful tour,” said Fogleman. “The boys are improving all the time.”

The netmen play Presbyterian here tomorrow. The Blue Hose beat Harvard, 6-3, and traditionally present tough competition. Conference action begins
next week for the squad when the Foglemen travel to The Citadel on April 10.

The freshman tennis team hosted Shelby High School Wednesday in its first match of the season. Shelby defeated the Kitten
netters, 5-1.

By CHARLES ELLIOTT
Sports Writer

The Wildcat baseball team opened their conference schedule March 24 with a doubleheader split with West Virginia. The first game
was a 4-3 win for Davidson’s Buddy Durham, who shut out the Mountaineers for eight innings before they got three
runs on a homer by Tom Little. The Cats came back in the bottom of the ninth with four big
runs, the last two on shortstop Stew Brown's bases-loaded single. Other Cats with hits were Skip Waite, who tripled, plus
Dick Lindsey and Frank Murphy.

The second game was a darkness-shortened affair which saw the Cats give up four unearned runs in the second inning
and Gene Bennett was tagged with a 5-2 loss.

FACE GEORGIA SOUTHERN

After a weekend break, the team left for Statesboro, Ga. to meet Georgia Southern March 27. Mackey Reavis threw a
no-hitter at the Eagles for seven innings before being tagged for three runs in the eighth inning. Bennett came on
to halt the rally. The Cats came back in the top of the ninth with four runs and held on
to win, 6-5. Claude Owen had three hits and three RBI's and Reavis, Jack Smith, and Murphy had two hits
apiece.

The following day, the Davidson team fell victim in a rain-shortened game which went only four and one-half innings. Georgia
Southern won, 3-0. Davidson got five men on base but could not score.

Softball Begins In IMAC Action

IMAC softball competition got underway this week, with the Betas emerging as an early contender for the crown. The Beta
bombers polished off the SAE’s, 17-11, Wednesday to complement a forfeit win earlier in the week over the Independents. The
game was marked by infield errors and misjudgments that characterize early season games. The win also proved the strength of
both teams’ batting attack.

The E’s loss to the Betas balances their win over the KA’s, 14-13, Monday. The E’s gained a strong lead
in the early part of the game, but the KA batting order got clicking in the final innings and rolled
up nine more runs. Johnny Hunter popped out in the last inning with two men on base, and the E’s
pulled out the win.

The SPE’s wiped out the ATO’s, 17-7, Monday, while the Phi Gams knocked off the Pi Kapps, 7-3, in a
game marked by errors and poor hitting. The Fiji's continued their winning ways Wednesday with a 10-5 romp over the
KA’s, while the Taus regained some pride by burying the Independents, 18-3. The Delts slipped by the Pi Kapps, 14-13,
Wednesday. The Delts also downed the Pikas, 8-7, earlier in the week.

In freshman action, West walloped East I, 36-22, Tuesday in what must have been a battle of the batters.

SPRING FROLICS

YOU CAN FRESHEN YOUR IMPRESSION AT

JACKSON CLEANERS
Davidson, N. C.
Main St.

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Central Carolinas Luncheon and Dinner Specials
Mon. - Thurs. A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course
The ELK’S Now Operated Under New Management

Gurley’s ESSO
Main and South Streets
Phone 892-9304
GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND AND PLAY TIGERINO FOR CASH!

Atmosphere in the CannonBase but could not move them across the plate, and Charlie Elliott was tagged with the loss.

FALL TO GEORGIA TECH. The team moved on to Atlanta on March 29 to play Georgia Tech in two games.
The Yellowjackets amassed twenty hits and took full advantage of eleven Wildcat errors to win, 14-1.

The Davidsonian April 7, 1967 Page Five

Owen had two hits for the ‘Cats and Brown, Bennett, and Waite had one apiece. Sandy Brenneman drove in the
‘Cats’ only run. Bennett, who was relieved in the third inning by Elliott, was the loser. The second game was
much the same story as Durham took the hill after what Coach Tom Stevens termed the “worst game I've ever
seen a Davidson team play.” But the Tech bats were again too much as they got twelve hits and nine
runs. The ‘Cats had five miscues in the field. Hank Strickland had two hits and Owen one, all of which
could not account for a run, and the Yellowjackets won, 9-0.

The team closed out the road trip March 31 with a game against Clemson's Tigers. Reavis was on the mound
for the ‘Cats, but a severely inflamed elbow forced him to leave before getting a man out. Bennett came on
to pitch five innings against the powerful Tiger bats before Elliott came on to finish the last two innings. Reavis
got the loss in a game which saw only three Davidson hits, by Roy Logan, Smith, and David King.

SPLIT WITH INDIANS Returning to the friendly confines of Davidson Tuesday, the diamondmen split a doubleheader with William and Mary’s
Indians in conference action. In the first game, Durham threw a six-hitter at the visitors but the ‘Cats could not
muster a plate attack and they fell. ‘Cat hits were by Murphy, Strickland, Smith, Waite, and Logan, whose first-inning triple
scored the only run. The second game saw Davidson pull out a 4-2 victory for Bennett. After jumping off to
a 2-1 lead in the first innings, the ‘Cats were tied 2-2 after the opening rounds. Then Smith came through
with RBIs in the third and fifth innings and put the game on ice. Smith, along with Lindsey, Logan, and
Waite had the other ‘Cat hits. The team’s conference record stands at 2-2 and their overall record is 3-7. The
diamondmen play their third conference doubleheader tomorrow against VMI at Lexington, Va. The Keydets, Stevens said, have been plagued with
lack of personnel this year, and should not prove to be as strong as some of this year's competition. Davidson
will face Belmont Abbey there on Tuesday, and will play a doubleheader with Richmond next Saturday on the Spiders’ home
field.

LOGAN SLIDES FOR PAYDIRT Chalks Up Run In Win Over Indians

Thinclads Face News Meet The varsity cindermen in their first meet since March 18 will journey to Greenville, S.C. on
Saturday, April 8, for the annual Greenville News-Piedmont Relays. “Twelve men will participate for us,” said Davidson Coach Heath Whittle.
“Due to spring football practice, no freshmen will go. We plan to enter men in all but two of the
field events, the triple jump and the broad jump.” A field of 15 teams is scheduled to participate in the
college competition. “There will be some real strong teams there,” said Whittle. “I would say that East Tennessee State should
win, but there will be many other fine teams there.” Besides East Tennessee State, Furman, Carson Newman, High Point, East
Carolina, Emory, Wofford, Presbyterian, Cumberland, Marshall, and Davidson will compete. “I think we will do all right with the men
we take but we will definitely miss Greg Cox who is still out with a shoulder separation,” said Whittle. Otis
Randolph and Roane Cross will put the shot, and Randolph, John Fagg, and Lowell Bryan will hurl the discus. Frank
Bass will high jump and Kerry Keith will throw the javelin. “We will enter the mile, 440, and sprint medley
relays,” Whittle continued. Tom Caldwell, Bob McKellar, Barry St. Clair, Mike Moats, and Eddie Rice will make up the mile
relay team. Caldwell, McKellar, Davis, and St. Clair are entered in the sprint medley relay. Caldwell and McKellar will run
the 220 legs, Davis the 440 leg, and St. Clair the 880 leg.” Next Tuesday the thinclads will face a
tough East Carolina team at Greenville, N.C.

“Damn Yankees” will massage them like no TV show ever has. The music from this all-time Broadway smash has been
completely rescored, arranged for a great new sound. The visual techniques take the step beyond “pop” and “op.” It’s the
kind of innovation you associate with GE and that's why we're part of it. That’s why we're putting “Damn Yankees”
on the air. Don't miss it. General Electric Theater NBC TV 9-11 PM. EST - Sat., April 8 Progress is
Our Most Important Product GENERAL ELECTRIC

La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N.C. BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY STEAKS — Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads Phone
376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd. 217 N. Tryon St.

DACRON® AND WORSTED SUITS in traditional styling These are the summer suits men are talking about. You'll feel as well
as look fresh, and cool this summer — confident that this 55% Dacron® and 45% Worsted combination is wrinkle resistant
through the hottest day. In an endless variety of imported and domestic fabrics and Cultured Colors that will satisfy men
of all ages! Rich glen plaids, solids, and stripes in the authentic natural shoulder tailoring and styling of College Hall.
*DuPont's polyester fibre Rush Wilson, Ltd. Davidson, N.C. Greenville, S.C.

Pipe Smoker This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe
(only) purchases. matron michel 375-9723 Charlotte
