Page Four March 23, 1967 The Davidsonian

EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the third in a series of four articles on the proposed faculty constitution by Mike Bates. This week Bates examines the proposals for faculty control of Davidson’s athletic program.

By MIKE BATES
Editorial Correspondent

The proposed draft of the faculty constitution would give the faculty complete control, subject to trustee approval, of Davidson's intercollegiate athletic program. The control would be exercised by a 10-man elective committee of the faculty. The President, the Dean of the Faculty, and the Director of Athletics would be ex officio members.

Presently, the faculty has almost no voice in athletic policy-making. The Director of Athletics reports to the Dean of the Faculty who reports to the President. The only authority the present Faculty Committee on Athletics has is the right to approve intercollegiate schedules. The trustees have given this committee two additional duties: approving student eligibility for participation in intercollegiate athletics and serving in a liaison capacity between the Athletic Department and the faculty. However, the Davidson College Self-Study Report observed, “The policy-making function of the Faculty Committee is more theory than fact” (p. 238).

The proposed draft would extend faculty control to include every phase of the college’s athletic program. The committee would have full control over the number of intercollegiate contests and the specific opponents selected. The committee would “set standards for the eligibility of student participants.” Policies for intramural athletics and physical education would be made by the faculty committee. The proposed draft says, “This Committee shall be the major organ of the Faculty in exercising the required ‘Faculty control of all phases of intercollegiate athletics.’ (Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, Standard 13.)” This quotation is from the 1961 edition of the Southern Association’s standards. It is not found in the current edition, although the latter does say that “the athletic program of the college shall be organized under faculty supervision.”

The National Collegiate Athletic Association's regulation simply calls for “institutional control of, and responsibility for, all collegiate sports...”

Director of Athletics Tom Scott is strongly opposed to the proposed duties of the Committee on Athletics. He feels that the faculty is not qualified to execute the duties the proposed constitution gives the committee. Scott said, “I don't think they should establish policy on something they are ignorant about.” Scott claims that there is faculty control of intercollegiate athletics right now, mainly because he answers to the Dean of the Faculty. Hearing of this statement, a faculty member tersely replied, “The Dean is not the faculty.”

Many students feel that there is a very obvious need for student representation on this committee. Membership on the Athletic Council, whose role is purely advisory, is simply insufficient.

Thirty-one Prospects Attend Scholarship Weekend

Thirty-one select applicants to Davidson this year visited the college during Scholarship Weekend held last weekend. The Scholarship Committee, composed of five faculty members, selected those students to attend the weekend whom they felt could make the greatest contributions to Davidson.

“Scholarships are awarded when they enroll,” White added. “They are not guaranteed scholarships before that time. The amount of aid they are given varies according to their financial need. However, if they do not have any financial difficulties, they automatically receive an honorary scholarship,” he added.

Scholarship Weekend has been held for the past 18 years. “We took care of all their expenses while they were here at the college,” said White. “A Davidson student was assigned to each finalist. They ate in the fraternity houses and the Union, went to classes and met with faculty members.”

“Each finalist has already been accepted,” said H. Edmunds White, director of admissions. Since Davidson is competing with other excellent schools to get the finalists to matriculate, White said that “it would be unrealistic to hope that all of them will come here. However, with past experience we can expect 35-65 percent to enroll at Davidson.”

By BRODIE BROWN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Chapter of the Young Republican Club was named the Outstanding College Club at the convention of the North Carolina Federation of Young Republicans in Greensboro last weekend. In addition, Davidson's sponsor, Miss Merille Jones of Queens College, was named Miss Young Republican of North Carolina.

As a result of the convention elections, in which Jim MacNair was elected treasurer of the College Council and Ben Garrett elected Regional Director, Davidson's YRC has the largest number of elected officers on the executive committee of the College Council.

The major action of the convention was the withdrawal of the College Council from the North Carolina Federation. In the past, the federation has been composed of county clubs, high school clubs, and college campus clubs. The withdrawal of the campus clubs was prompted by grievances which have arisen over the past several years. “The federation, which has not provided benefits to the College Council that justify expenditures, has continually harassed College Council leadership,” stated Joe Beard, President of the Davidson YRC.

Over the last three years, the College Council has maintained its membership strength, while the federation has decreased in membership from 40 to 15 clubs. The withdrawal of the College Council further reduced the federation membership by one half. The College Council will maintain its affiliation with the National Federation through membership in the National College Republican Committee.

Committee Chooses New Hall Counselors

Hall counselors for next year have been announced by Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dorms. For the first time, formal essay-type applications were submitted by the 63 juniors and seniors who applied for the $220 per year jobs.

Those selected to be hall counselors are Tom Baker, Eddie Beach, Rusty Brannon, Bobby Burch, Tom Clayton, Cecil Clifton, Gus Cochran, Scott Cutting, John Durham, Rick Harrell, Ronnie Hunt, Bayard Miller, Mike Mooty, Tony Orsbon, Bill Seigler, George Rogister, Greg Simmons, Frank Spence, Tate Sterrett, Bobby Vagt, Bill Watson, and Bill Williams. Alternates are Ross Brown, Jim Robinson, Ken Tarleton, and Chip Vogan.

The applications were evaluated by Dr. William B. Hight, supervisor of student counseling, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, Assistant Dean of Students Jim Terry, and Mrs. Nicholls. Final selections were made by the graduating hall counselors from this school year, Terry, Woodmansee, and Mrs. Nicholls.

Another change from last year’s policy was the reduced effort to spread the jobs equally among the 12 fraternities and Independents. This year only one Independent was selected, several fraternities have no counselors and two have nine between them.

Eleven Honored By Phi Eta Sigma

Eleven new members were initiated into Phi Eta Sigma Tuesday afternoon in ceremonies at Phi Hall. The inductees include six freshmen and five sophomores. Membership in the national scholastic honorary fraternity is open to freshmen who maintain a 2.6 grade point ratio for the first semester or over the first two semesters.

Sophomores inducted were Dick Chandler, Wayne Huckel, Bayard Miller, John Roe, and Charles Skinner. Freshmen were Sterling Abernethy, Robin Gottfried, Bill Johnson, David Matthews, John Moore, and James Puckett.

In a business meeting after the ceremony, the fraternity elected new officers and heard a report from Kirk Reed, who attended the national Phi Eta Sigma convention at Auburn University last October. Reed was elected president, succeeding Chris Hawk. Other officers for next year are Bill Williams, vice-president; Dick Chandler, secretary; and Wayne Huckel, treasurer.

Frist’s Petition Fails To Meet Expectations

Senior Tom Frist’s petition proposing draft exemption for non-combat service has failed to muster the response its originator had anticipated. Frist, who started circulating the petition two weeks ago, last night reported 360 signers, “a really surprising lack of response.”

The petition, which proposes exemption for persons serving in organizations like the Peace Corps, will be sent to President Johnson.

“I was really surprised at the lack of response,” Frist said. “This is probably one of the least radical proposals concerning the draft we could have had.” He attributed the poor response to student indifference to the draft and poor coordination by the petition’s sponsors.

He said he plans to include with the petition a letter explaining these hindering factors. “I hope the fact that the students who...Did sign cared enough to express their opinions will be more important than the total number of signatures on the petition.”

OF MEN AND MONKEYS

Under the sponsorship of Piedmont University Center, Dr. Alfred S. Romer, Agassiz professor emeritus of zoology at Harvard University, spoke Monday night on the evolution of man from primitive tree dwellers. Romer pointed out that because man developed from monkeys and apes, man possesses hands with opposable thumbs — a fortunate occurrence. Asking his audience if they could visualize human mentality in an animal without hands, such as a horse, Romer emphasized the importance of man’s having usable hands. Because brachiating apes and monkeys were necessarily highly agile, man developed this characteristic. According to Romer, the depth perception necessary for swinging from limb to limb accounts for the fact that stereoscopic vision evolved in man’s forebears. Romer illustrated a major part of his lecture with slides showing the simplest Primates, then more highly developed forms, and finally pre-men, illustrated by slides both of skulls and artists’ conceptions of how these men looked. (Staff Photo by Weems)

Topic Is War, Peace For Retreat April 8, 9

By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

War and peace as general issues will be the central theme for a student-faculty retreat now being planned for the weekend of April 8-9. According to junior Ron Hunt, chairman of the committee planning the retreat, topics of discussion will be focused on some of the overall aspects of our military commitments. “The retreat is not designed to be a military teach-in on Vietnam,” he added. Although certain students and faculty members will be individually invited to participate in panel discussions and other activities, the retreat is open to all students and faculty wishing to attend. Hunt said that he hoped that a wide range of viewpoints would be represented including those of the ROTC and the conscientious objector. The retreat activities will begin that Saturday afternoon and will conclude following lunch on Sunday. In addition to panel discussions, certain relevant tape recordings will be used to stimulate discussion, and general “bull sessions” will be encouraged. The concept of the student-faculty retreat has been developed by a committee which has been working to find new ways for the church to play a more active part in student life.

Journalist To Speak At Union

Kenneth S. Armstrong, journalist and photographer, will speak on Vietnam at 8 p.m. April 4 in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Armstrong has lived in Southeast Asia for the last year, photographing life in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia and covering political, social, and economic developments for an Ohio newspaper. He has traveled extensively throughout Vietnam, observing the social and military developments throughout the country. A graduate of the University of Michigan, Armstrong was news director of an Ohio television station and has traveled throughout the Iron Curtain countries as a journalist.

Deans (Continued from Page One)

of the college. Faculty members have benefited by the seminars they have taught in that they have learned about their own disciplines and better ways to teach them. Amherst has a joint faculty-student advisory body called the College Council which recommends changes in the college. The faculty and students elect their own members. It has been instrumental in causing a number of changes, Ward said, and wields considerable power. There is also a joint lectureship committee, but the faculty and the student body have separate committees on educational policy. A student Judicial Board, which is wholly student-operated, handles honor offenses, Ward explained. Both Amherst and Bowdoin award scholarships only on the basis of need. Neither gives athletic grants in aid or grants based on merit alone. Ward also explained that every spring the representatives from the Ivy League schools and the northeastern liberal arts colleges meet in New York to discuss their overlapping financial aid applicants and how much aid they will be offered. “This is an effective means of evaluating the candidates for admission,” he said. Discussing student agitation for change in the college, Ward commented, “There is always tension between students and faculty. Student discontent and faculty discontent keep the school moving. But the gap between the two groups should be joined before it becomes antagonism. We must keep dialogue and yet maintain action.” Ward opined, “I think one of the products of a liberal education is that there is a turning in on itself of education, a self-examination. We listen to the students. We have some sense that they have diverse talent and backgrounds and may have something to say. We don't, however, think that student opinion is the fountain of wisdom.” Greason observed that “students are invariably impatient. They engage the college at a particular point in time. There are obligations the college has prior to their coming and after their leaving. There is a tendency to push against authority. Also a comfortable impersonalizing of the administration. These are problems that make dialogue difficult.”

Kilpatrick’s Election Closes Class Voting

Davidson voters wound up the long, three-week student body election period today, choosing among the final contenders for Student Council seats. The only places still in question today were sophomore president and representative, which went to Joe Kilpatrick and Peter Hobbie. Bob Dunham, the last survivor of the opening field, trailed. Rising juniors decided on their slate of officers Wednesday. Frank Murphy was elected president, and Joe Murphy and Covey Carter representatives. Bobby Vagt, leader with the other three after Tuesday's first vote, was eliminated. Bill Watson heads the rising seniors as president. He was elected in the first round on Tuesday, along with Bruce Weihe, vice president, and Ben Cannon, secretary-treasurer. Geoff Seamans and Mike May are the new senior class representatives. The only other elections this week were run-offs Monday for the final positions on the YMCA Board and Freshman Adviser. Tom Clayton and Clay Ford, running jointly, were elected Freshman Advisers. Mike Powell and Dave McClintock topped Mac Hobby for secretary of the YMCA, and Allen Pusey defeated Emerson Bell for treasurer in the closest race of the elections.

Camp Openings: Wanted: College Men, Students and faculty, for Coastal Boy’s Camp, June 13-August 19. Activity needs: Sailing, Motorboating, Water Safety Instructors, Scuba, Archery, Riflery, Crafts, Campcraft, Pianists, General, and Administrative... Excellent character references required. Good salary according to age, experience, and college classification. Room and board furnished. Quick answers upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor or Donald M. Cheek, Camp Sea Gull, P. O. Box 10976, Raleigh, N. C. 27605.

FOR YOUR TRAVEL

FREE professional routing service saves you time and money. ALL arrangements can be made by phone... Call 892-1138 (Davidson) STATESVILLE TRAVEL Service Youth cards available $3 Travel half-fare on standby basis.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

SWAIN'S STEAK | PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

CHARCOAL HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414

Pipe Smoker

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

217 N. Tryon St. 375-9723 Charlotte

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

look for the “W” because it’s silent. Mr. Wrangler for real sportswear. The famous silent “W”: you don’t pronounce it, but you must look for it if you want sportswear that looks right, fits right, feels right. Made right, too—many in no-iron fabrics treated with the remarkable Wranglok® permanent press finish. Mr. Wrangler sportswear is here, on campus, in your size.