February 24, 1967

Reynolds Lectureship Hits Snag | Page Four

Sabbatical Leaves Set For Coming Semesters

In Securing Speakers

Finding speakers for the Reynolds Lectureships has been a slow process, according to Dr. Francis W. Johnston, chairman of the
Reynolds Lectureship Program. Thus far, one speaker, Dr. Jacob Bronowski of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego,
Calif., has definitely accepted an invitation to speak here on May 9-10. There is a good possibility, however, of having
dramatist Paul Green, author of The Lost Colony, and political scientist Dr. Hans Morgenthau, respected critic on the administration’s policy
in Viet Nam, Johnston indicated. Neither of these speakers has yet confirmed any specific date, but it is probable that
both will do so within the next week or 10 days. Johnston said Wednesday that he had written to Morgenthau
the day before, giving him several dates in March and asking him for a confirmation. Green will probably speak at
Davidson sometime in April, Johnston said.

“We usually have four speakers a year,” Johnston said. In the past, usually at least one Reynolds Lecturer has appeared
during the first semester. This year all three lecturers will appear this semester. Johnston pointed out that this year it
has been hard to get speakers to accept or confirm dates. When asked about the report that the YMCA might
take over the job of securing speakers for the Reynolds Lectureships, Johnston said that “this is the first I’ve heard
of it.”

“The suggestion has been made that we have two or three lecturers here together and have a sort of panel,”
he said.

The Reynolds Lectureships are endowed programs, financed by funds given to Davidson in 1959 by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation.
The purpose of these lectureships is to bring nationally or internationally famous speakers to the campus for several days. Last
year’s lecturers were editor Bernard Hollowood, anthropologist Dr. Margaret Mead, and political scientist James MacGregor Burns.

TOWARD SELF-UNDERSTANDING

Tom A. Cutting, the pastor of Providence Presbyterian Church in Matthews, expressed the importance of self-understanding in his chapel talk
Tuesday. He pointed out man’s need for self-awareness both as an individual and as a member of society. Cutting is
a Davidson graduate.

30 Rising Juniors To Study Overseas

Thirty rising juniors and two faculty members will leave in late August for a year of study in Europe. Under
the Foreign Study Program, 15 Davidson students attend either the University of Marburg, Germany, or the University of Montpellier, France.
Accompanying the students as advisors to their respective groups will be Francis Ghigo, professor of French, and James Ford M.
Epes, instructor in German.

Selected by the Foreign Study Committee and the dean of the faculty from a number of applicants, these students will
study in various courses which they wish to take. In addition, each of the Davidson professors will conduct a special
seminar class for the students. The students are being given some special orientation this semester. When they arrive in Europe,
they will study at the Goethe Institute before the regular semester in each country begins in mid-October.

Students attending the University of Montpellier will be: B.H. Anderson, Dave Bell, Bob Cunningham, Cameron Ferguson, Ken Fuller, Paul Gallis,
Joe Kearfoot, Berkley Latimer, Pat Oglesby, Bob Schofield, Sam Tallman, Clyde Thomas, Al Varner, Jim Vest, and Ed Winn.

Attending the University of Marburg will be: Bob Anderson, Jim Bailey, Kurt Corriher, Roane Cross, Ray English, Dave Fore, Bob
Grady, Sam Johnson, Calvin Jones, Mike LaPlante, Bill Ross, Dennis Schulz, Charles Skinner, Tom Skinner, and Ed VanDeman.

Woodwind Quintet Will Give Concert

The Memphis State Woodwind Quintet will present a free concert Tuesday at 8:15 p.m. in Hudson Hall. The program is
being sponsored by the Department of Music.

Representing Memphis State University, the quintet will be heard in a program consisting of the “Quintet Op. 71” by Beethoven,
“Trois Pièces Brèves” by Jacques Ibert, and Hindemith’s “Kleine Kammermusik, Op. 24, No. 2.” The group will conclude their recital
with “Six Dance-Caricatures” by the contemporary American composer, Roy Douglas. The clarinetist for the group, Dr.

Faces

By Collegiate Press Service

WASHINGTON, D.C. — In the wake of the disclosure of ties between the National Student Association and the Central Intelligence
Agency, people are disappearing. Bob, who as the director of Covert Action Division Number Five was the CIA’s liaison with
NSA, has vanished. A few weeks ago, you could contact him by calling the Agency for International Development. Yesterday, AID
officials said there was no record he had ever worked for the development agency. And there is Manuel. When last
seen, Manuel was traveling between New York and California. He was said to be working for the Regional Development Department.
This week, the Commerce Department said they had no listing for Manuel. In the late 1960s, Manuel was NSA’s Latin
American assistant. It was the time of the silent generation, yet Manuel was an activist. He made contact with the
Christian Democratic movement in the Americas; he met with United States international affairs groups. He also made contact with the
CIA. Bob, who later became the Covert Action Division’s liaison man, was NSA’s president during Manuel’s tenure as Latin American
assistant. Manuel left NSA and returned to school. He spent some time on a West Coast campus. And he developed
a reputation for being ubiquitous. Manuel was seen everywhere: he was in Latin America, he attended meetings of the reportedly
CIA-linked United States Youth

DINNER HONORS GRIDDERS

Members of the 1945 football squad were honored at a dinner Tuesday night in the Union’s Morrison Room, appropriately decorated
with jerseys, helmets, and a snarling wildcat. Along with the honors presented to team members, Jimmy Poole received the Most
Valuable Player award.

Pipe Smoker

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

MAISON MIC
217 N. Tryon St.
375-9723
Charlotte

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT

The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas

Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.

A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.

Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course

THE ELK’S Now Operated Under New ManagementCouncil, he visited NSA's offices periodically. Then Manuel flowered. In 1964, NSA-CIA Ties Found:
Names Vanish together with such old NSA staffers as Bob of the Covert Action Division. He founded Intercontinental Research, Inc.,
in Washington. Located in a suite of 10 offices at 2016 P Street, Intercontinental was supposed to be available on
a consultant basis to anyone who needed "research" done. Participants in NSA’s International Student Relations Seminar attended the cocktail party
celebrating the opening of Intercontinental's offices. This week, Intercontinental wasn’t answering its phones. The door was bolted, and there was
no one looking through the peephole to determine whether you were admissible.

Manuel had another job in 1964. He was vice-president of the International Development Foundation, which receives substantial portions of its
income from CIA sources. During 1964, International Development received $360,000 from the respectable Benjamin Rosenthal Foundation of New York. Rosenthal’s
sources were not as respectable, since money had been received from the Tower Fund ($340,000) and the Edsel Fund ($20,000).
Both Tower and Edsel have been cited as CIA conduits. Tower and Edsel also funneled money to International Development through
other supposedly legitimate foundations.

Sitting in International Development’s New York offices at 205 E. 42nd St., Manuel administered funds said by his organization to
be used for developing "leadership for social development in the emerging countries." Interestingly, another former NSA international assistant, Robert, is
one of the board members of International Development. In his position, Manuel gave more than $300,000 yearly to various Christian
Democratic groups in the Americas. When Manuel left International Development late in 1965, he supposedly went to work for the
Commerce Department. And the Commerce Department says they never heard of Manuel.

Examining produce in an open-air marketplace in Lisbon is one way to broaden one’s knowledge of the ways of the
Portuguese people. These girls found exploring the markets of cities around the world a relaxing change from studies undertaken during
a semester at sea on Chapman College's floating campus—now called World Campus Afloat. Alzada Knickerbocker of Knoxville, Tennessee, returned from
the study-travel semester to complete her senior year in English at Radcliffe College. Jan Knippers of Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, a graduate
of the University of Tennessee and a former Peace Corps Volunteer, first pursued graduate studies in International Relations and returned
a second semester as a teaching assistant in Spanish on the world-circling campus. Students live and attend regular classes aboard
the SS RYNDAM, owned by the BCL Shipping Co. of Bremen for which the Holland-America Line acts as general passenger
agent. In-port activities are arranged to supplement courses taught aboard ship.

As you read this, the spring semester voyage of discovery is carrying 450 undergraduate and graduate students through the Panama
Canal to call at ports in Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, Nigeria, Senegal, Morocco, Spain, Portugal, The Netherlands, Denmark, and Great Britain,
returning to New York May 25. Next fall, World Campus Afloat—Chapman College will take another 500 students around the world
from New York to Los Angeles, and in the spring, a new student body will journey from Los Angeles to
ports on both west and east coasts of South America, in western and northern Europe, and as far east as
Leningrad before returning to New York.

For a catalog describing how you can include a semester aboard the RYNDAM in your educational plans, fill in the
information below and mail.

World Campus Afloat, Director of Admissions
Chapman College
Orange, California 92666

Campus address:
Class (Fr., So., Jr., Sr.):
Permanent address:
Tel.:
Name of School:
Age:

The RYNDAM is of West German registry.
