7 Page Six September 20, 1967

She Davidsonian

Professor Heads Commissioners

Martin Enjoying World Of Politics

Proving that chemists can escape from their labs once in a while, Dr. James G. Martin is finding politics very
much to his liking. Martin was elected to head the Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners during the summer. He was
first elected to the board last year. A belief that local government can and should handle local problems coupled with
a belief that it had failed to fulfill that responsibility led him to get into politics, Martin said. The final
decision to run for the Board of Commissioners came after the Republican Party promised to support his candidacy, he said.

The firm, friendly-looking chemist has both equations and votes. Martin has been the faculty adviser for both the Young Republican
Club and the Conservative Club at Davidson during most of his teaching years. The commissioner's job, he said, is largely
that of a coordinator who sets the county budget. Debate over various proposals and reshuffling of the budget to meet
county needs takes about two-thirds of the commissioner's time. Extra time to take care of that job along with continuing
as a full-time chemistry teacher, he said, has been created by cutting out his former hobbies, playing with the Charlotte
Symphony and officiating high school football games.

One of the board's biggest jobs in the past year was convincing the public of the need for a $36
million school bond issue. Martin said that the passage of this bond issue “helped re-establish public confidence in the opinion
of the board” because the previous board had opposed hikes in teachers’ salaries. Among the other board projects in which
Martin participated during the last year were the setting of a $2.2 million county budget and the negotiation of a
contract with Charlotte for installation of county-wide water lines to make the area more attractive to industry.

Martin has no definite political plans for the future other than seeking re-election to the Board of Commissioners, but he
admits that other possibilities may arise. These possibilities, he said, will depend on his learning more about the operations of
government.

Greeks (Continued From Page One)

Representatives proposed a simple plan for the extension of rush in order to take a closer look at those not
receiving bids. Immediately after the resolution was received the fraternity presidents began to meet; however, no announcement has been forthcoming
as to what progress, if any, has been made toward the compromise solution. One certain comment was that an announcement
would be made in the next several weeks.

In addition to the Wednesday night meeting, the fraternity presidents also met Sunday night and last Thursday night.

KERW PARKER Associate Editor

Earl H. Brill, Episcopal Chaplain at American University in Washington, D.C., said in chapel Thursday night that a new religious
community is emerging in America today. Whether that community isolates itself or takes an active role in American culture, he
continued, depends on the type of converts that it can win.

“A unified religious community needs to attract bright, alert, sensitive, modern men and women,” Brill said. “It needs dedicated, concerned
followers who realize what the church’s role should be, but who don't pretend to know all the answers and who
are willing to experiment.”

Brill noted that the trend toward a unified association of religions is in direct contrast to the collection of many
churches and faiths that has characterized America in the past. “We're one of the most fragmented religious communities on God's
Green Earth,” Brill said. “But now I think that the centrifugal forces that have kept our churches apart are disappearing
and a counter movement toward unity is developing.”

Batten Describes Arab-Israeli War

By CHUCK GREEN Staff Writer

The Middle East is not the sort of place where optimism comes easy,” said James K. Batten about his trip
to the Middle East during the recent Arab-Israeli war. He said that the Israelis were convinced an Arab victory would
be a massacre, that Auschwitz would be paradise if the Arabs came. “The Israelis feared for their lives.”

Alumnus Batten, Washington correspondent for The Charlotte Observer and a former editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, said that the mobilization was
prepared well in advance and that the Israelis had "a well-organized, efficient press office.” They even had air-conditioned civilian buses
to take the press corps to the fighting. But what was more astonishing, Batten said, was that “half the Israeli
army was going to the front the same way.” The Israelis were censoring all press copy, Batten said, “I had
no way of knowing what was getting back.”

“The Israeli mobilization was complete before the war started,” he said, “With Israel surrounded by Arabs no spot in the
country was more than 10 miles away from Arab territory.”

At the collective farm of

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM
HEYWARD CARTER
Copy Editor:
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS
Managing Editors:
ED EMBREE
ROBBIE HOOKER
Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT
Sports Editor:
BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editors:
DON SEWELL
DANNY WHITE
CHARLES McEWEN
Photograph Editor:
BILL OLSON
Photographers:
DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists:
BERRY BELSER
NAT HEYWARD
MIKE SIGMAN
Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON
Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

“The churches are beginning to see themselves as allies in a common enterprise to deal with pressing social concerns.” Brill
said that the internal communication within the community is already in progress, with Protestants, Catholics, and Jews moving toward each
other. “In particular,” he said, “Jews are beginning to understand that Protestantism involves more than anti-Semitism and Protestants are discovering
in Judaism the historical basis of their religion.”

Brill forecasted a powerful political role for the new religious community, noting the influence of a small group of churchmen
on the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Bill. “I see the church's political role as one of helping bring
issues before the public, setting the ethical

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FIRST SEMESTER 1967-68

Wednesday a.m. second hour classes Tues. Thurs. Sat. Jan. 17 p.m. a.m. fifth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Thursday Jan.
18 p.m. third hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat. Friday a.m. Jan. 19 p.m. ROTC HM, 21, 31, 41. Saturday a.m.
third hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 20 p.m. Monday a.m. second hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 22 p.m.
fourth hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat. Tuesday a.m. Jan. 23 p.m. sixth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Wednesday a.m. fourth
hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 24 p.m. Thursday p.m. first hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Jan. 25 p.m. first
hour classes Tues., Thurs., Sat.

Witness To Detroit Riot Claims Housing And Resources Needed

A Davidson senior who witnessed the Detroit riots said Wednesday night that open housing legislation and “reallocation of resources” would
ease social tensions. Bobby Lane, speaking to

Dimensions of those issues, and setting limits within which decisions can be made. The community should do this rather than
just telling the government what to do. “I don't think that there's any danger that the community will become too
powerful politically," he added, “Variety within the community will be the safeguard against that."

FRONT LINE DUTY
Batten takes Israeli side. Near Surin, Batten saw a “scene of paradox and incongruity. It was a peaceful scene, but
on all sides a battle was raging. Every house was damaged, but the civilians had defended themselves successfully.” After the
Syrians had been pushed back, the people of Dan said, “It is the first time in 18 years the Syrians
are not opposite us. Clear the hills: that's all we want.” Most impressive, Batten said, was the unity, dedication, and
spirit of the Israelis, especially the young people. “Many students hurried home to fight," he said. “The future is not
optimistic,” Batten said. The Israelis insist on a permanent settlement. “They do not want to fight the war over again.”
There are no signs that the Arabs intend to give in, but Batten said, “Israelis are confident they can occupy
the land for years, though at a great cost.” The big question, Batten said, is “How long will the Syrians
keep winning?”

It Pleases Us To Please You!
DAVIDSON GROCERY
Depot Street
Davidson, N. C.

The year's first Open End, worked in Detroit this past summer through the Students in Industry program. He worked in
a hospital and lived within two blocks of the riot area. Lane criticized the National Guard’s participation in the riots,
citing examples where tanks and truckloads of troops were called in to capture a single sniper. A sense of frustration
was described as the motive behind the riots by Lane and Leslie Brown, who also appeared on the program. Lane
pointed out that in Detroit slums, 70 percent of high school dropouts are unemployed. But, he added, 70 percent of
high school graduates, the same percentage, are also unemployed. “This is typical of the life which ghetto Negroes must accept,”
he said. Overcrowded conditions and substandard buildings make housing one of the ghetto's biggest problems, Brown and Lane said. They
believe open housing laws are necessary to let the Negro break out of the slums. Lack of local representation on
decision-making bodies is the other great problem of the ghetto. The residents are rarely represented on urban renewal boards and
local development commissions. Getting the people of a neighborhood to work together is often more important than getting spectacular results,
Lane said. Students in Industry was organized by a group of Detroit ministers to deal with problems in labor and
management for Negroes. Lane lived with 11 other college students and three adults on the edge of a slum. Lane
said that looting and burning of buildings was not selective. Local businessmen suffered as much as absentee owners. Brown and
Lane cited examples of legitimate protest by ghetto residents on accepted avenues of complaint which were ignored by city officials.
This leads to violence. “Overall, it's disadvantageous to speak in militant terms, but sometimes it has to be done," Brown
said. “We've got to wake up white America.”

CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE
Lane discusses Detroit Riots.

Drama Season To Open With ‘Darkness At Noon’
Sidney Kingsley’s Darkness at Noon will be presented by Davidson’s Drama Department on November 4-10. The play, based on a
novel by Arthur Koestler, deals with a Soviet commissar who is jailed during a major purge. Tryouts for the production
were held Tuesday night.

22 Freshmen Selected For Council Positions
The Freshman Class has selected 22 of its members to represent it on the Freshman Council. The council will work
under the direction of advisers Tom Clayton and Clay Ford. Its main responsibilities for the year will be the coordination
of a freshman-sophomore field day and Freshman Parents Day. Those elected to the council were Dick Allison, Herb Clogg, Mike
Cole, Rich Cowart, Jerry Dean, Ken Dixon, Ed Dobbs, Steve Engstrom, Jack Gray, Bobby Harris, Harrison Higgins, Keith Onsdoff, James
Parks, Duncan Postma, Charles Ralston, Steve Roady, Stuart Shelton, Walter Sprunt, Jack Steele, Floyd Strand, George Wagoner, and Jule Young.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6581

Major Publishing Co. has limited sets of The Americana available at a tremendous saving. For information call Mr. Evans: 372-3096
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson
The cast includes some 20 men and three women. “The play is big and complicated but it should work out
quite well,” said Rupert Barber, assistant professor of speech and drama. Barber added that some lighter drama from The Irish
Theater is being planned for early March, possibly Sean O'Casey’s Juno and the Paycock. The final production of the year,
the musical comedy The Boyfriend, a British spoof of the 1920s, will be presented in the Morrison Room as part
of a dinner theatre. Tryouts for the plays are open to all students and will be publicized in advance.

LOOK SHARP FOR ROTC AND THE CONCERT!
Get The Finest Haircuts At
NORTON & SON
Main St. Davidson

THIS WEEK
Sept. 28-Oct. 4 SPECIALS
THURS. — Chicken Pan Pie, Peas & Carrots, Rice Pudding, Tea Or Coffee.
FRI. — Canadian Ham, Whipped Potatoes, Tossed Salad, Tea Or Coffee.
MON. — Bar-B-Cue Chicken, French Fried Potatoes, Cole Slaw, Tea Or Coffee.
TUES. — Spaghetti and Meat Sauce, Tossed Salad, Tea Or Coffee.
WED. — Roast Beef, Creamed Potatoes, String Beans, Tea Or Coffee.

Serving Hours: Mon.-Fri. 11:30 A.M.-2 P.M., 5-10 P.M. — Sat. 5-10 P.M.
Sundays—Buffet Served 11:30 A.M.-2 P.M.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-7526
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Contributors this week: Dick Anderson, Lewis Lavine, Bill Pine, Mark Wingate, Bob Garrett, George Oretakis, Ashley Kline, John Bottger, Jim
Hudson, Steve Callender, John Pancake, Lyman Parrigin, Danny Coltrane, Greg Scott, George Allen, Johan Willems, Rob Koehbel, Tim Lee, Jim
Cooley, Jim Mowry, Paul Schneider, Richard Cowart, Chuck Green, Mac Hobby, David Coats, Callum Rogers, Jim Crouse, Jim Freeman, Jim
Boland, and Doug Haynes.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (mailed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036

DANCE NEXT SATURDAY, OCT. 7
Reasonable Prices — Big Band

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
Storage For Students’ Winter Clothes — Free Mothproofing

The Elk’s Restaurant
WINE License No. 54102 — BEER License No. 190399
Beans Bagging Permitted
Corner W. Wilson & U. S. Hwy. 21 — Mooresville, N. C.

MAIN ST.
Davidson, N. C.
