Page Four October 20, 1967 The Davidsonian

CITY PORTRAIT Study Disappoints Lane. “Not a great deal was accomplished at the conference.” “A Portrait of a Southern City,”
held at Duke University last weekend, according to Bobby Lane. Lane said, “It was disappointing. They didn't get the speakers
they had planned. The value of the conference for me was that it confirmed my ideas on the problems of
cities, rather than clearly showing me new ones.” Lane added that particular problems were given preference to general ones. Members
focused on problems in Durham, home of Duke University. He said this was “good because it got to the base
of the problem, rather than passing it along to the more general federal level. Local government and various decision-making processes
were discussed.” He also said that it was generally agreed that while conferences and councils would be of value in
bringing about solutions to urban problems in the South, the willingness of southern legislators to face the problems would be
of primary importance. Sophomore Robert Pyenit and junior Richard Rosenfeld also attended the conference, which was sponsored by the YMCA
and YWCA at Duke. Guest speakers included James McBride Dabbs, author of Who Speaks for the South; James T. Draper,
regional director of the Office of Economic Opportunity; and Dr. Henry Clark of Duke. Dabbs, a southerner, suggested that southerners
are overly preoccupied with their feelings, and therefore progressive ideas are retarded. He said a paradox is created by the
southerners’ demand for personal rights of privacy within their highly social society. Clark felt that in the South, poverty created
a sense of anxiety among members of the working class competing for jobs, which therefore fostered bigotry and prejudice. He
contended that when economic conditions improved, prejudice could be reduced.

National Fraternity Brass Smile On IFC’s New Plan By BOB DUNHAM News Editor Representatives of four national fraternities, meeting with
the presidents of local chapters here Oct. 12, expressed a general feeling of satisfaction with the extended rush proposal of
the Davidson fraternity presidents. The meeting held at the Pi Kappa Phi house was held in order to resolve differences
in opinion on parts of the plan, especially the extended rush program. One representative, Dick Fletcher, executive secretary of Sigma
Nu, an unofficial spokesman for the group, said, “All of our questions have been answered.” Also at the meeting with
Fletcher were Durward Owen, executive secretary of Pi Kappa Phi; Francis M. Rich, national president of Beta Theta Pi; Dr.
J. G. Martin, associate professor of chemistry and national vice president of Beta Theta Pi; and Rex A. Smith, executive
secretary of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The national representatives at the meeting also acted as representatives of other national officers who
were unable to attend the suddenly-called meeting. Fletcher said that he felt they would be able to transmit their satisfaction
with the proposal to the other officers. The representatives expressed particular satisfaction when they were informed that fraternity members approved
of the plan by a vote of 469 to four. Citing the united effort on the part of the fraternity
presidents, Fletcher said, “This is a definite improvement in interfraternity relations. This collective effort is something new and should be
a springboard to greater things. I think the fraternities will concur,” he said. “There are minor problems of mechanics, but
I think we have a workable plan.” The majority of the discussion centered around the concept of compulsion in the
rush program, i.e., whether a fraternity would be forced to rush a boy who was not wanted by the members.
This question has been a major issue in the national stand on rush proposals.

Representatives Receive New Ideas At Workshop Three Project Opportunity workers returned this week from a conference at Tulane University, armed
with new ideas for improving the local program. The Davidson delegation, Neuman Johnson, assistant professor of history, junior John Warren,
and senior Phil Jones attended the three-day conference Oct. 6-8 in New Orleans. Jones said that the conference was basically
a workshop—ideas were exchanged among representatives from the 17 Southern colleges that participated in Project Opportunity, and guest speakers presented
concepts for effective tutoring and cultural enrichment. Project Opportunity, supported by Ford and Danforth Foundations and sponsored by the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools, seeks to aid young people from culturally deficient backgrounds. Project Opportunity volunteers work with boys
and girls who are behind in school but are hampered by poverty, home environment, and inferior schools. Jones said that
the local workers tutor young people who are in the eighth, ninth, and tenth grades at the Irwin Avenue and
Second Ward schools in Charlotte. The tutees are driven to Davidson by bus on Saturday afternoons. Jones said that Tulane
was an ideal location for the conference since the university has a model Project Opportunity program. Tulane’s program has over
200 volunteers. Jones said, “It’s the largest extracurricular activity on campus there,” he said. At the conference, Jones said that
he learned of new concepts in tutoring—the use of games to teach number concepts for arithmetic and science, for instance.
Jones said that discussion at the conference confirmed his belief that Project Opportunity tutors need to learn how to communicate.
“Many of them can’t write a sentence,” he said. In the local program, Johnson is the coordinator for faculty support.

During Union Conference A concept of group dynamics may find use in the College Union program as a result of
a conference attended by several Union Board members this weekend. “Group dynamics is a process of getting a group of
people to think and work together while they are simultaneously examining themselves,” said S. A. Aiken, Union president. “We hope
that we will be able to apply something to make this concept better understood at Davidson College,” he said. The
theme was one of the main topics discussed at the National Conference of Student Unions held at the University of
Tennessee Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union; Tom Covington Jr., his assistant; Bet Embree,
vice president of the Cameron Union Board social chairman; and Aiken attended the conference. Embree led a group discussion Monday
about leadership on the Union Board; Covington spoke on the Union Board. Smith was one of five union directors who
sat on a “Stump the Staff Panel” to be questioned by students. Represented at the conference were colleges in North
and South Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Virginia. All of the colleges are members of the Association of College Unions.

NORKET'S ESSO AND WRECKER SERVICE — 24 HOUR SERVICE — 892-1543 Cornelius OPEN SUNDAYS 12 P.M.-9 P.M. North End Zone
Wreckers Finest Tiedka Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone 332-2414

Sunday Night Open House The following homes will be open this Sunday — Purcell Hall

SAE’s To Host Discussion Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity is sponsoring a series of Open End-type discussions, featuring Davidson professors. Dr.
Alan B. Brinkley, associate professor of philosophy, will lead the first discussion, slated for Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the
fraternity house. Any students and faculty members may attend. Topic for discussion will be students’ rights and responsibilities. Brinkley is
titling his introductory talk “You’ve Been Had, Man, If You Signed Away Your Freedom When You Filled Out the Application!”
Discussion will follow. Two other programs are scheduled for November and December, respectively. Bill Smyth is program chairman.

Committee To Study Scheduling The Academic Scheduling Committee will consider a proposal to declare Tuesday, Jan. 2 a holiday at
its annual meeting Monday. If the proposal is accepted, the Christmas vacation will be extended one day. Some students have
expressed dissatisfaction about having to drive back to Davidson on New Year’s Day—the day after New Year’s Eve parties. Joe
Kilpatrick, student representative to the committee, will present to the committee proposals from both the Student Council and the Freshman
Council endorsing the holiday. Dr. Joseph T. Deake, chairmanof the committee, said he favored the holiday and would try to
convince the committee of its practicality. Drake said the committee’s basic job is to set up the schedule of holidays
and exams for the coming school year. He and Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt, registrar, have prepared a tentative schedule to
present to the committee. Kilpatrick said he also plans to discuss with the committee the possibility of getting the Saturdays
of Mid-Winters and Spring Frolics weekends declared permanent holidays.

By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

“You've got to become more aware and accommodated to the human condition,” Dr. William C. Archie, executive director of the
Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation, said at Tuesday's assembly. Archie went on to say that students are “somewhere between puberty and
maturity” and that “personal and non-personal problems” frustrate the achievement of maturity. Personal problems which were singled out included the
“psychological problems... of seeking self-identity, the discovery of the role of love, spiritual and physical, and the role of sex,”
separation from one's parents “without offending them for life,” and the choice of a vocation. Archie said that, for these
personal problems, “solutions are complicated by external problems.” Archie cited non-personal problems, including the problem of race relations about which
he warned, “if we don't solve this one, there will be no peace for you and your children... you must
do a better job than I and my generation have.” Archie also cited Vietnam as a problem “related to every
domestic problem.” In the hour following his address, Archie discussed Kin's study of the hippie movement and commented on its
nature, meaning, and decline. He also discussed the position of the small liberal arts college, especially Davidson. Archie is a
Davidson graduate, Class of '29. In 1965 he was reappointed executive director of the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation which, since
Archie's appointment, has contributed to PRAM.

On Campus

(By the author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!", "Dobie Gillis," etc.)

THERE ARE NO BAD TEACHERS; THERE ARE ONLY BAD STUDENTS

The academic year has only just begun and already one thing is clear: you're not ready for college. What, then,
should you do? Should you throw up your hands and quit? I say no! I say you must attack, grapple,
cope! I say America did not become the world's leader in motel construction and kidney transplants by running away from
a fight!

The question then: You say you're not ready for college. You're too green, too naive. You lack maturity. Okay, the
answer is simple: get mature. How? Well sir, to achieve maturity you need two things: a) a probing mind; b)
a vest. A probing mind will be quickly yours if you'll remember that education consists not of answers but of
questions. Blindly accepting information and dumbly memorizing data is high school stuff. In college you don't just accept. You dispute,
you push, you pry, you challenge. If, for instance, your physics prof says, “E equals mc squared,” don't just write
it down. Say to the prof, “Why?”

This will show him two things: a) Your mind is a keen, thrusting instrument; b) You are in the wrong
major. Ask questions, questions, and more questions. That is the essence of maturity, the heart and liver of education. Ask
things which have never been asked before, like “How tall was Nietzsche?” and “Did the Minotaur have ticks? If so,
were they immortal?” and “How often did Pitt the Elder shave?”

(Incidentally, you may never know the complete answer to Pitt the Elder’s shaving habits, but of one thing you can
be positive: no matter how often he shaved and no matter what blades he used, he never enjoyed the shaving
comfort that you do. I am assuming, of course, that you use Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, a logical assumption
to make when one is addressing college men—which is to say men of perspicacity, discrimination, wit, taste, cognizance, and shrewdness—for
Personna is a blade to please the perspicacious, delight the discriminating, win the witty, tickle the tasteful, coddle the cognizant,
and shave the shrewd.)

(I bring up Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades because the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades pay me to
write this column, and they are inclined to sulk if I omit to mention their product. I would not like
to see them unhappy, the makers of Personna, for they are fine ruddy men, fond of poetry, dancing, and home-brewed
root beer, and they make a blade that shaves closely and cleanly, nicklessly and hacklessly, and is sharp and gleaming
and durable and available both in double-edge style and injector style.)

But I digress. We have now solved the problem of maturity. In subsequent columns, we'll take up other issues, equally
burning. Since 1965 when this column first started running in your campus paper, we've tackled such thorny questions as “Can
a student of 19 find happiness with an economics professor of 90?” and “Should capital punishment for pledges be abolished?”
and “Are roommates sanitary?” Be assured that in this, our 14th year, we will not be less bold.

© Max Shulman

The makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades (double-edge or injector) and Burma-Shave (regular or menthol) are far from apprehensive
in bringing you another year of Max Shulman’s amiable, un- censored column.
