Page Six

By ROBBIE HOOKER
News Editor

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, took the student body on a farcical tour of the college’s heritage
in chapel Tuesday, disclosing in narrative and lyrics the previously “untold stories” of the college's six “greatest heroes.”

The usually unresponsive assembly guffawed its approval of the words and song that Davidson and a supporting cast of six
offered for each hero, starting with the college’s namesake and concluding with President D. Grier Martin.

Davidson introduced each of the heroes—portrayed by a co-star from the faculty, administration or student body—recalling the familiar and not-so-familiar
contributions of each.

STUDENT AID
White Claims Loans Better Than Credits

Federally guaranteed loans to college students have more potential benefit than the tax credit proposal recently made by Sen. Abraham
Ribicoff (D-Conn.) according to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid.

Ribicoff’s proposal, which is an expanded variation of ones he has made in past sessions, gives standardized tax credits for
expenses incurred by parents in sending their children to college. Opposition has been voiced by national academic associations on the
grounds that families which are most in need of assistance receive proportionately less benefit than those which can afford advanced
education with comparative ease.

White said that in terms of Davidson's private interest he would not advise the school to oppose the bill, introduced
in the Senate on Feb. 6. However, he pointed out that on a national level, the losses in revenue that
the federal government would face would not balance the benefit to education.

He said that the system of federal loans to college students guaranteed by the federal government, a program that has
been in operation for a relatively short time, has already provided more useful financial aid to North Carolina students.

To Appear

Davidson will greet another YMCA Great Issues Speaker, Lovett Elango, highlighting next week's schedule of chapel programs. Speaking Monday, Elango,
a graduate student at Johns Hopkins and a native of Cameroun, West Africa, will discuss American relations with newly emerging
African nations in his topic, “The Great Veto.”

On Tuesday, the Rev. Tom Cutting of Charlotte will speak. Cutting is a 1959 graduate of Davidson and attended Princeton
Theological Seminary. He is presently the minister of Providence Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

Chapel Skit Honors Davidson Heroes

Each modern-day counterpart in turn then extolled his own virtues in a verse of melody. A rousing chorus pledging to
“heifer highball” and a “heifer highball” were written several years ago by Davidson and James Christian, former Drama Professor, and
has been performed a number of times, including last fall to the faculty.

Hero No. 1, portrayed by senior Johnny Jeter, was the college namesake, William Lee Davidson, “a backwoods general of the
American Revolution.” According to Davidson and Company, “Probably the most fortunate thing that ever happened to him was to get
killed while he was still young, only thirty-four, and popular, and before he had time to make the mistakes common
to those of us who live to be old men.”

Peter Stewart Ney—“where he came from nobody knows and where he is now I would not predict”—was Hero Number Two.
(Drama Professor Rupert Barber). Ney appeared in the area in the 1830s and “was immediately spotted as Napoleon's famous Marshal
Ney incognito, an identity he admitted to only when under the influence of eau de vie or other tongue-loosening cordials.”
His contribution to the college is its seal.

The college's first president, Dr. Robert Hall Morrison (Assistant Director of the Union Tom Covington) was Hero No. 3. “He
was an earnest administrator, with a fatherly affection for the students. When he had to give them the lash... he
always accompanied the chastising with a lengthy prayer for the penitence of the sinner. It is reported that some students
requested two whippings and no prayer.”

The benefactor who made Davidson the richest college south of Princeton—Hero No. 4—was Maxwell Chambers (Sterling Martin, assistant track coach).
His money made possible the predecessor of the present Chambers Building, but “most of the Chamber's legacy was promptly lost
by the patriotic trustees who invested it in Confederate securities. If the South had won that war and saved its
money, Princeton would today be only the Davidson of the North.”

The man who tried to institute the West Point demerit system at the college—Major D. H. Hill (Associate Professor of
Bible Thomas F. Clark)—was Hero No. 5. His innovation failed, for “the result was the famous student rebellion of 1855
in which all the boys went home and only a third ever came back. Hill is buried in the college
cemetery, “the most famous of all citizens under the Davidson sod.”

President Martin (Assistant Dean of Students Jim Terry) is Hero No. 6. Martin saw the Ford Foundation millions as a
way of moderating the Trustees-faculty-student power struggle—“if he could plug up each hole in the dam with a sufficient wad
of greenbacks, he could hold back the flood for a few more years. Also, going out to raise money was
a heavenly escape from the constant hell-raising at the college.”

By CARTER FUSSELL
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Drama Department is now rehearsing its current play, The Skin of Our Teeth by Thorton Wilder, which
will be presented in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center Wednesday through Friday at 8:15 p.m. Rupert Barber
Jr., director of the play, says “The cast has found it to be a difficult, but a very rewarding play.
It will be interesting. Nothing like it has been done since I've been here. All of the crews have stretched
their imaginations to create the special effects called for by the play, such as disappearing walls, the deluge, etc. The
play is becoming wilder and wilder!”

The Skin of Our Teeth, which won a Pulitzer Prize in 1943, is a comedy-drama depicting the struggles and foibles
of mankind. It is the story of the Antrobus family and how they have survived 1000 calamities by the skin
of their teeth. The cast includes John Bailey as Antrobus who has invented the wheel and the alphabet, and has
many other plans for the future; Neal Martin is his son, fighting against the establishment.Skin of their teeth. Constance Welsh
plays Mrs. Antrobus, the mother; Jane Crawley plays Sabina, the maid; Gini McAllister plays Gladys, the daughter; Mrs. Ellin Winkler
plays the Fortune Teller. Mrs. Mary Rose Davis, Mrs. Susan Lickey, Jane Nicholls, Susan Walker, and Kitty Nelson round out
the female roles. Students in the play are John Michael Gwilym portrays Fitzpatrick, the stage manager. Other students are Bill
Graham, Richard Loeble, Bobby Lane, Joe Obershain, Harry Hamil, Buzz Hardin, Ken Fuller, and Jim Bowman. Sets have been designed
by Robert Williams and Mrs. Rupert Barber Jr. has designed special costumes for the production.

Sunday Night Open House

The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding
open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Brinkley
McGavock
Jackson
Pinkerton
Stroud

Open House Survey Gets Poor Response

Only 12 of 80 questionnaires given to faculty members in the Student Council's poll on Sunday night Open House have
been returned, according to junior Bill Watson. “Either the faculty members have neglected to return the letters or they do
not wish to participate," Watson said. “However, the questionnaires which have been returned seem to indicate that some professors would
still like to continue Open House on Sunday even though there is not much student interest." He also added that
“there is much discussion that we are upholding a dying tradition. In the past, students would go to the faculty
homes directly after Vespers. Now, without Vespers, students do not seem to care as much as they used to.”

During the first semester, the Religious Life Committee instituted a policy of individual visitation. Under this plan, a faculty member
could ask students at his discretion. “The questionnaire,” Watson said, “asked whether or not they favored the open house system.
If so, they could say if they preferred individual visitation, a periodic plan of each professor having open house once
a month, or a combination of both. If they did not want to participate, they did not have to return
the letter.” “We will have the results, hopefully, in a week,” Watson concluded. An evaluation of the faculty opinion will
be made as soon as possible. The polling committee will also try to get the opinion of the students.

CIA Link Perplexing To Opponent Of NSA

By BOB DUNHAM
Staff Writer

Joe Beard, one of the chief proponents of the STOP NSA movement on campus last year, is perplexed by the
recent announcement of a financial connection between the National Student Association and the Central Intelligence Agency. “My main reaction is
confusion,” said Beard yesterday. “I don't want to make any statement before learning what is going on. Any statement now
would be mere supposition.” Beard added, “They've spent so much money on the ‘non-Communist left’, I wish that they would
give us a few million dollars to help us promote the non-Communist right.”

His comment followed a report earlier this week that the CIA has been supporting the student group with funds for
more than a decade. The NSA was the center issue in a controversy on campus last year, a controversy which
resulted in Davidson's withdrawal from the group, which is considered the nation's largest student group. Beard commented that he felt
the State Department was wrong in choosing the NSA as a representative. He described the financial support as a “disdainful
use of funds.” Along with this statement, Beard made a prediction that the NSA would soon take a major turn
to the left.

President Johnson joined the controversy Wednesday. In a report printed in THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, Undersecretary of State Nicholas Katzenbach commented
that “the President believes strongly that the integrity and independence of the educational community must be preserved. He has directed
a careful review of any government activities that may endanger this integrity and independence.” As the reports of the collaboration
spread, many charges were added to the original statement. The charge that NSA had provided student agents in Europe brought
no comment from Beard, as he held to his view that the State Department had erred in choosing the NSA
as a representative. His basis for his fight against the student group is the belief that the group is Communist-influenced.
He said, “The NSA is dominated by the Students for a Democratic Society, a group which is considered by many
people to be influenced by Communism.”

Passion (Continued From Page One)

are seated at a small table, downstage right. She sits erect, smoking. Only her face is turned towards Bill, who
sits with his arms stretched across the table. He stares at the empty cigarette box, which he flips constantly.

Catherine: Don't you just adore the Duke? I think he's the greatest?

Bill: (looking up, smiling) He's great all right, but you should have heard the Kingston Trio. Now, there’s a cool
bunch of guys! Smooth, man!

Catherine: Oh, YES. I saw them when they were at Fancy Dress. Remember the one that played the banjo —
the middle-sized one? (Bill nods, he remembers) I think he’s the cutest thing that I have ever seen. (Bill smiles)
He and Rock Hudson could have me anytime! (Bill laughs)

Bill: Did you see Hudson in “Torrid.” (shaking head in amazement) Boy, he was sharp! Remember that scene where he
and Kim were on the boat alone? (Catherine smiles, she remembers) Wow!

Catherine: (her face bright with awakened interest) Did you see “The Sound and the Fury”? (Bill nods) What did you
think of it?

Bill: (hesitantly) Well, I liked it, but it was hard to understand. I think Faulkner was trying to say something
in that deaf-mute uncle, but I couldn't catch it. (grinning) I guess I should have studied English more than I
did. (obviously he doesn't believe this)

Catherine: What are you studying, Bill?

Bill: Pre-med, I guess. I like chemistry a lot. And besides, you've got to do something worthwhile if life is
to have any meaning. I think being a doctor is one of the best ways to, you know, serve your
fellow man.

Catherine: (gazing intently at Bill now, her face fairly glowing with interest) I think that's terrific, Bill. It's really great.
So many people just sort of exist. They never seem to really do anything. I'm glad you don’t want to
be like that. (The soft strains of “Tenderly” float through the haze.)

Bill: (rising) Let's dance. (He escorts her to a relatively uncrowded portion of the dance floor. They dance silently. Bill's
eyes are closed. His expression is that of a man ascending to Heaven through clouds of Chanel No. 5. Suddenly
Catherine pushes away from him and dashes across the room toward the exits.)

Catherine: Oh! I can't stand it! I think I'm going to die! (Another girl, her face swallowed in a gaping
grin, runs toward Catherine. They meet and fondly embrace. Bill waits a moment, irritated, then walks over to where the
two stand.)

Catherine: Jayne, I want you to meet my date, Bill Gunch. Bill, this is Jayne Compson. (Bill nods acknowledgment; Jayne
gapes) Jayne rooms on my hall at Sweetlins, Bill. (to Jayne) Bill's a Zeta Deke.

Jayne: Oh! Then you must know Bobby Broadwell. He's a Zeta Deke down here.

Bill: Yeh, real well. He and I date together sometimes. Where did you meet Bobby?

Jayne: Oh, he’s from my hometown — Petersburg. (pause, Jayne's eyes dart nervously between Bill and Catherine, who only stares
expectantly.) Well, I'd better find my date before he leaves me. (She has a shallow laugh). Catherine, you be sure
to come down to my room in the morning. O. K.? (Catherine nods assurance. Jayne turns to leave). Don’t ya'll
do anything I wouldn't. (She winks at Bill.)

(The music has stopped. Bill guides Catherine back to their table.)

Bill: What was her name?

Catherine: Oh, Bill! Jayne Compson. She's one of my best friends—and plenty sharp.

Bill: Oh, is she the one dating Paul Kennedy? Yeah, I've heard about her. She is sharp! (He loosens his
tie and unbuttons the collar of his shirt) God, it's hot in here. Let’s go outside for a breath of
fresh air. (He leaves, without waiting for an answer. She follows him.)

(Outside, they wander aimlessly across the moon-blanched golf course, stopping at the edge of a sandtrap. His pale eyes gently
caress her flushed lips, pleading. For a moment she hesitates, staring possessively at his silver fraternity pin.)

Rendezvous in Charlotte at Lo Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations
THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
