Page Four May 5, 1967 The Davidsonian

Golfers, Netmen Spann, Hite, Jelks Pace Favored ‘Cats
By BOB STUBBS
Sports Writer

The defending champion Wildcat golf team appears favored to repeat at the Southern Conference Tournament at Myrtle Beach, S.C., May 8, 9, 10. “Our chief competition should come from Richmond, West Virginia, and perhaps The Citadel,” said coach Tom Scott. “Actually, I know very little about other conference teams this year, as we have played only three.” Davidson crushed George Washington, The Citadel, and Furman at Myrtle Beach earlier this year. On the same course where the tournament will be played, the Wildcat linksmen shot four 74's. The tournament will be played on the last two days, with Monday used as a practice day. The contestants will play eighteen holes each day. Every team in the Conference will enter six men from whom the four best scores will be taken.

“Mike Spann is our best man right now with just over a 74-stroke-per-match average,” said Scott. “He finished sixth in the Cape Coral Tournament over spring recess.” “Cary Hite has been doing very well and is averaging right around 75 strokes. These two coupled with George Leight at 76 and Joe Jelks at 77 should be our top four golfers at Myrtle Beach. Right now our other four men — John Giles, Tucker Dalton, Tucker Laxton, and Bruce Vanderbloemen — are playing a 72-hole elimination match to determine which two will go to the Tournament with Hite, Spann, Jelks, and Leight.”

Last year Davidson won by a whopping 21-stroke margin over William and Mary for top honors. Doug McKeever, Leight, George Brewer, and Jelks made up the team that toured the course at Southern Pines, N.C., in 647 strokes, the highest winning score in the last 15 years. Behind William and Mary were West Virginia at 679, and Richmond and VMI at 683. McKeever took first place with an 82-78-160. Leight shot 161 and Brewer 162 for second and third place respectively. Jelks’ 164 was good enough for a fifth place tie.

Tuesday the linksmen were crushed by Wake Forest 18-3 at Quail Hollow. Leonard Thompson, John Bucek, and Doug Ford shared medalist honors for the Deacons with 74’s. Mike Spann was low for the ‘Cats with a 74, followed by Hite, who carded a 75. Thompson had just returned from the North-South Amateur Tournament at Pinehurst, where he had made the quarterfinals before elimination.

Last Friday the Wildcats were edged by N.C. State, 11-10, at Raleigh. Jelks and Hite had 72s to tie the Pack's Richard Lee and Sam Gealy for low medalist. Friday Davidson gets a chance for revenge against State in a match at Quail Hollow. “We should beat them over here to round out our regular season record at 5-6,” Scott said. “All our losses, however, have been against tough Atlantic Coast Conference competition. The experience should profit us at Myrtle Beach.”

Basketball Signs Snipes, Football Prospects Bright

Despite the recent controversy concerning subsidized athletics at Davidson, the basketball and football programs are recruiting and signing their respective prospects with the success of past years. “Recruiting this year has been the best of my three years at Davidson,” said coach Homer Smith. Cage coach Lefty Driesell is also looking forward to a good group, although at the present time only one boy, Ricky Snipes, of Belton, S.C., has signed.

The football program has signed at least thirteen boys who are all standouts, Smith says, at their positions. One of the two most promising players, Mark Thompson, 5-11, 160 pounds, registered an outstanding season as a quarterback at high school in Fayetteville, Ark. Besides holding All-State and All-Southern heralds, his statistics are very impressive. Last season he completed 134 out of 240 passes for 1,948 yards and 20 touchdowns. He also rushed for 521 yards in 115 carries for 12 touchdowns. Also at quarterback will be Allan Oxman, 5-2, 170 pounds, from Atlanta, Ga.

Other backfield men include Jim Hobis, a 6-1 195 pound fullback from Richmond, Va., Ted Wood, a 5-10 175 pound halfback from Ellicott City, Md., and Steve Epperson, a 6-1 190 pound fullback from Atlanta, Ga. Hobis received offers from Navy, Yale, and West Virginia, Smith said.

Leading the list of linemen coming next year is Kenneth Totherow. At 6-2 200 pounds, Totherow is an aggressive tackle from Chicago, Ill. He had offers from many Big Ten and Ivy teams, according to the Athletic Department. Other linemen include Les Baugham, a 6-3 235 pound tackle from Atlanta, Ga., Jim Buchanan, a 6-3 205 pound tackle from Bakersville, N.C., Bryon Peterson, a 6-2 200 pound tackle/linebacker from Winston-Salem, Stuart Kennedy, a 6-0 200 pound tackle from Asheville, N.C., Dave Mockhee, a 6-0 185 pound linebacker from Jackson, Miss., Kenneth Prestwich, a 6-1 220 pound tackle from Rockville, Md., and Rusty Lawrence, a 6-1 165 pound end from Nashville, Tenn. Kennedy is also a track and wrestling star.

So far, only Snipes has signed for basketball. He is a 6-7 220 pound boy who averaged 26 points and 20 rebounds a game this past year.

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
Storage For Students’ Winter Clothes — Free Mothproofing
MAIN ST. Davidson, N.C.
Phone 596-9985

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
For Reservations

Fuzzballers Hope To Repeat Past Feats
By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Crucial matches with George Washington this afternoon and a doubleheader against Furman and William and Mary tomorrow will help determine Davidson's chances of retaining their tennis title in the Southern Conference Tournament May 8-10 in Greenville, S.C. If the ‘Cats prove tough, they should be able to retain the crown they won last year. The conference matches will be divided into flights, with all the men at each position playing in their own tournaments. Thus there will be six singles tournaments and three doubles tournaments, with individual

Capsizes Sink Sailors; Finish Fifth In Charleston Regatta

Davidson's previously undefeated sailing team suffered two capsizes and a host of lesser mishaps at the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association regatta. The Citadel and College of Charleston were undefeated so far.Regatta in Charleston, S.C., last weekend, and finished a disappointing fifth in a field of eight contestants. The first spill came in the fourth race of the A Division, when a College of Charleston boat caught a Davidson craft at the leeward mark and fouled them, causing the accident. Tad Lowdermilk was skippering the craft, with Tom Kirtley as crew. The second capsize came in the sixth race of B Division when a faulty main-sheet camcleat caused James Lee to spill as he tacked for the line. Kirtley skippered the first three races of A Division with Lowdermilk as crew, but as the wind increased to 20 knots they switched positions. Lowdermilk was skippering at the time of the capsize. The College of Charleston was penalized for the action, but Davidson was not reinstated in the race. This cost Davidson eight points.

HONEY’S GOURMET BUFFET
Open Monday through Friday
11:30 a.m. to 2:00
105 W. Morehead
Clothing for the pace
Charlotte, N.C.
setting traditionalist

HUNTER HAIG engineers The Stripe in subtle chalk stripe of dacron and worsted — Sophisticated in fit, construction and every detail. 69.95
Come in today — see — the new annuals in
SUITS
SPORTCOATS
SLACKS
by HUNTER HAIG
Other suits from 49.95 to 75.00 including famous Palm Beach and BOTANY 500.

In the following race, Lowdermilk was leading the field to the finish line when a log jammed his rudder, causing him to lose his lead and finish third. In the last three races, Lowdermilk and Kirtley pulled in two second places and one first. Lee and Bob Murphy competed for Davidson in the B Division, with Lee holding down skipper duties. The pair chalked up a pair of firsts for the Wildcats, one in the third and the other in the fifth. In the sixth race, Lee capsized while challenging the leader. The capsize, coupled with the poor showing of the A Division craft, dropped Davidson to fifth place. The Citadel took top honors for the day, followed by College of Charleston, South Carolina, Clemson, Davidson, William and Mary, Old Dominion, and Duke. Whit Smyth of The Citadel was high point skipper for the day, with James Townsend of The Citadel following in second. Sailing in their home waters, Charleston held a decided advantage over other competitors.

Davidson will lose several of its top sailors this season, including seniors Chip Robertson, who helped found the club, Ben Reeves, and Bob Murphy. Junior Chip Bellamy is transferring this year, too. The team, under commodore Tom Kirtley, is hoping to build another winning season on the talents of Lowdermilk, Lee, Bob Albee, and Yates Fletcher. “We hope some other boys will try out for the team,” Kirtley said. “We need to train new men all the time. Our conference is very tough, and you need to train quite a while to carry the honors.” Kirtley suggested that anyone interested in participating in sailing should contact either him or any member of the sailing team as soon as possible. He said team members would offer a certain amount of training for those who lack sufficient experience for competition.

All titles decided through elimination by Wednesday. There will be two seeded positions in each flight, determined by individual won-lost records in conference matches. The remaining positions will be determined by drawing places from a hat Sunday afternoon before the matches. “Three boys — Peter Parrot, Geordie Mueller, and David Jennings — and the number two and three doubles (Dan Hearon-Esmond Phelps and Jennings) will probably be seeded. But these matches are important in determining the status of the other boys.” The George Washington match this afternoon was vital because Fogleman feels the Colonials, led by Jack Jones and Tom Morgan, will be the toughest competition for the ‘Cats in the tournament. The Citadel is also expected to field a strong team.

Tomorrow's doubleheader, rescheduled because of rain on the original date, should be “unique,” according to Fogleman. The remaining matches should give several subs the opportunity to play. “Even with the conference matches coming up, we're in good condition,” said Fogleman. “We'll use all 10 men, giving Dale Vash, Al Varner, Bruce Weidener, and Frank Bass the chance to play.” Fogleman said he feels the team is in good condition and will be ready for the tournament. “The team is in good shape for the tournament and confident of winning, but a lot will depend on the draw, and who we play in the first round. We can’t control anything after that. But the tournament is arranged so that no two players meet each other more than once, so as to give everybody a chance.” The scoring system used in the tournament will award one point to a team for each match won or a bye drawn. A perfect score will be 36 points. Fogleman believes that 22 or 24 points should win this year. “There is not much chance of anyone slipping in the backdoor unless the top three kill each other off.”

Grid Coaches To Open Training Clinic Friday
Davidson's first football clinic will be held here next Friday and Saturday. The clinic, sponsored by the athletic department for the benefit of high school coaches and players, will feature instruction on the passing game. Southern Conference Co-Player of the Year Jimmy Poole and Steve Heckard, former ‘Cat gridder now playing for the Los Angeles Rams, will demonstrate various techniques of the aerial attack. High school coaches and players from the Carolinas, Virginia, and Georgia have been invited to the clinic for a small fee. Spokesmen for the athletic department said that anyone interested in attending the clinic should contact assistant football coach Dave Fagg as soon as possible. The clinic gets underway at 7 p.m. Friday with head coach Homer Smith and his staff conducting skull sessions on the passing game.

A forest’s future is in your hands. Whenever you visit our public parks and forests, please remember that our trees and wildlife depend on your thoughtfulness. Nine out of ten forest fires are caused by careless people who forget Smokey Bear's ABC's: Always hold matches till cold. Be sure to drown all campfires, stir the ashes, and drown them again. Crush all smokes dead out. Please! Only you can prevent forest fires.