The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1967

Improved Race Relations

Things have come a long way at Davidson in the last five years, but there’s still a lot of space
to make up. We refer to the area of race relations. Four years ago, when the first Negro student was
a freshman at Davidson (only African students were accepted then), it was a struggle to even find a place where
Negroes could eat. And a visit to a Charlotte movie theater involved more preparations than one would make for visiting
royalty.

Now one of the final walls to segregation, the lily-white fraternity system, is crumbling. The prospect of fraternities rushing Negroes
or allowing Negro students to eat at the houses, once unheard of, became a reality this week. The requirement established
several years ago by the trustees that all fraternities sign a non-discrimination clause had nobody fooled. So long as the
blackball system remains and is even partially workable, discrimination can and will exist.

The only foolproof means of erasing the barriers to ensure Negroes treatment on their own merits, rather than their skin
color, is an open-minded attitude on the part of the student body at large, an open-mindedness more than one fraternity
had demonstrated this week. Despite the improvements made, it would take an astounding naivete to claim a victory for racial
impartiality. A host of subtle pressures, both within and without the confines of the college proper, remain to prevent Negro
students from becoming completely integrated into college life, particularly in the social sphere. But at least we’re on the way.

Help For Political Science

Dr. Philip B. Secor’s absence next year will be deeply felt by the entire college; he is a superior teacher
and scholar. But just as important is the significance of his leaving to the social sciences at Davidson and in
particular to the Political Science Department. At a time when the social sciences have never been more important in determining
what course man will set for himself, it would be almost incredible, if one didn’t know for himself, that one
man could take half a school's (a good school’s) Political Science Department.

It is incumbent on any school professing any sort of social conscience to demonstrate its commitment by equipping its graduates
to deal with the complex issues facing man today. A basic grounding in the humanities is essential, but so long
as the college retains a program of broad liberal education, there exists an obligation to make adequate work in the
social sciences available. A two-man department, even if staffed with excellent instructors, offers little incentive for prospective majors. Until the
department is enlarged, the present pitifully low number of majors will continue.

With Dr. Secor gone, a tremendous strain is placed on the college’s liberal community. As one of the few outspoken
liberals on campus, Dr. Secor has carried the ball well. We offer encouragement to Dr. Ernie Patterson, to whom, we
suspect, the liberal community will now look. Readers of the Charlotte Observer's editorial page can well attest to Dr. Patterson’s
perseverance, wit and incisive thinking. He is well equipped to do the job.

Freedom For Drugs, Speakers

Like it or not, drugs, stimulants and barbiturates are a fact of life in the 1960’s, and despite Davidson’s seclusion
from the mainstream of contemporary culture, drugs are an issue that will be faced eventually. The YMCA-College Union program, initiated
Monday by Dr. David Hawkins, is an encouraging step in confronting the reality of the issue and the problems drugs
present to the college student. Burying one’s head in the sand will not make the problem disappear; rather, it will
merely complicate things when the issue is faced.

Like other college and university administrations, the administration will someday have to clarify its position on student use of drugs
ordinarily considered illegal. The problem is somewhat more complicated than the drinking issue, a problem that is already apparently insurmountable
to the powers-that-be. Drinking in dormitories would not likely be considered a violation of state law, though no definite ruling
has been issued by state authorities. But a student found using drugs could be under double jeopardy from both civil
and college authorities, for an “offense” having consequences to the individual involved. An attempt by the administration to regulate student
conduct in an area that is purely personal would be a grave mistake, a step farther back into paternalism, rather
than an admission of student individual responsibility.

The so-called Controversial Speakers Committee, formed three years ago when the college was making headlines by inviting communists and atheists
to speak on the campus, has graciously extended permission to the YMCA-College Union symposium to invite the high priest of
the LSD cult, Timothy Leary, to speak on campus. But it was utilizing a power it does not have. The
committee, in contrast with the then-existing Speaker Ban Law that restricted speakers of certain political convictions from speaking on campuses
of state-supported universities, had a policy that “no speakers shall be denied a hearing on the campus because of his
membership in any organization.”

Perhaps the quiet that has prevailed since those days of turmoil has dimmed the memories of the committee members. The
committee was formed, not to control who may speak on campus, but rather to coordinate visits and in certain cases,
to sponsor speakers who would present an opposite point of view. We hope that the committee will maintain its original
purpose and repudiate its false claim as a censorate.

ROLE-PLAYING, WASTE MOTION

School Administrators' ‘Academic Games’ Stifle Educational Process

ED NOTE: The following article, a feature of the Collegiate Press Service, is reprinted from the University of Texas Daily
Texan.

I hope I'm finished with role-playing. The administrators I've seen are twice as rigid, twice as tradition-ridden, as the administrators
I've met. States so many people get drunk so often just because they drink so seldom, and therefore drinking is
for them a big deal (in any sense).

Dear Editor:

Rivers of ink would be necessary in order to discuss briefly the wet-dry campus issue. While several thousand miles from
Davidson, I should like to express a few simple ideas.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but they will be subject to editing
unless they have been cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be
received not later than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed.

First, alcohol does not mean sin. There is absolutely nothing wrong morally (if you follow a sort of moral code)
about alcoholic consumption. Second, some people enjoy playing bridge, others watching television. Why shouldn't some people enjoy one or two
drinks before or after supper? By the way, how can one enjoy a good dinner, while drinking iced tea or
milk instead of wine?

Third, drinking does not mean getting drunk! In the states so many people get drunk so often just because they
drink so seldom, and therefore drinking is for them a big deal (in any sense).

Fourth, an intelligent and well-educated individual, as a Davidson Gentleman is expected to be, should be able to behave properly
at all times. Why should restrictions be necessary? They seem to prove that education offered at D.C. is not complete;
people there seem not to learn the basic rules of civil living.

On the contrary, my personal opinion is that all that one learns at D.C. is fine and good enough. The
fact is, however, that these restrictions are anachronistic ones and should disappear from Davidson, the sooner, the better.

GIORGIO ROSSO University of Trieste, Italy Richardson Scholar, 1964-65

filled with injustice and suffering and spiritual deadness which stays

By JOHN BAILEY Associate Editor

According To John

Compulsory: Part II: No Crusader

There comes a time when we all just have to face up to reality. For some problems there are no
simple solutions. We can talk about them; plead our cases and analyze the various alternatives, but when it comes down
to giving a definitive answer...

The past week has been a bombardment of fraternities and brotherhood. At Davidson when it comes there is surely no
allowance for anything else. The fraternities are hustling a little more than they have been and tomorrow the freshmen will
make their choices; who will they select as their associates at Davidson for the next four years?

As in all other facets of our existence we search in college for the “Good Life.” Will it be found
in the fraternity system? Is there anything significant to be gained from remaining on the outside looking in? If you
are looking for an appeal to the freshman not to pledge, read no further. This is again a reflection, a
reflection upon three and a half years’ experience. I have said before that knowing what I do now, I would
never change my status as an independent even if I were a freshman going through rush all over again. And
yet I’m forced to think. It surely is great to get invited down to one of the houses for a
meal. Did you ever try to buy a really decent meal in Davidson? It is hard to do. I would
willingly pay a little more (like fraternity dues and a housing fee) to get the variety of good food that
most of the fraternities have. The fraternity meeting is a good place to get people on their feet among friends
and give them confidence in themselves. Only in the fraternity are you able to ask someone the proper way to
act.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and to dress and find out just where the best places to eat are. The fraternity is where you will
make lifelong friends and valuable connections. If you don’t have “it” the fraternity will give it to you. And for
many people, these are the areas in which the fraternity really does succeed. But let’s be objective for a moment.
How about the person who really does need to learn how to overcome shyness? How about the person who has
never dated much, the one who really doesn’t know how to have a good time? How about the person who
never has had any real connections? There are people at Davidson who have never had these opportunities and acceptance at
Davidson promises the hope of overcoming, or at least working with, one’s limitations. These are the very people as a
group who are not accepted by the fraternity system. The fraternity system which claims to contribute to the formulation of
the well-rounded man rejects the very people who need its help the most. Sure the fraternities get the campus leaders
and the “big men.” And they really are fine men. But these are the very people that the less sophisticated
Davidson student needs to associate himself with. You can talk about it. You can curse it. You can kid about
it. You can be a “great guy” about it. You can delay doing anything. But you can’t forget it. The
problem has been here as long as the system has existed and it still isn’t solved. The problem is the
fundamental one of rejection, this is what creates an invisible barrier between two large sectors of the student body. “I
know a guy, he’s an independent, but no kidding, he really is a good guy.” Well, I know a guy,
he’s a fraternity but no kidding, he really is a good guy. And that is the way things are. I’m
no crusader, never have been. But someone is going to have to prove to me that an injustice does not
exist in this area before I'll be satisfied about it. Let us look back to the immediate past. There have
been any number of fraternity men who have recognized the problem and tried to work out a solution. Remember Bob
Jones, Bob Young, and Rick von Unwerth? These men were all leaders and they recognized the need for change. Two
years ago we approached such a change and began to wrestle with the problem. I cannot say that the results
have been nil. But the results have been inconclusive. The independent still retains an inferior position in the Davidson system.
At the time of every big weekend, he is dependent upon the goodwill of the fraternity system to enjoy himself
to the fullest. What does it take to point up this problem so Trustees, administration, alumni, faculty, and students alike
will solve it? As I said, I'm not a crusader. But what would the college’s answer be if I went
to the Bursar’s Office and paid my $23 housing fee and asked which house I was assigned to? Think about
it. Haven’t I the right to the same facilities as everyone else on campus? I may make a crusader... one
student—John Kaplan—got up and walked out! Joy! Like the Baal-Shem Tov, he was in the truth, not just in the
possession of truth. Freshmen need to study alienation in America or to study problems of identity in their own cities.
If sociological tools are needed, if economic concepts are needed, introduce them. But don’t make a student go through years
of digested, analytical, disciplinary structure before he finds out what really matters. We need courses which involve the students’ life
at home, in the dormitory, at work. We live in the laboratory. The world is one. I'm not making a
false dichotomy between the real world and the University. Experience is one. It’s the University which makes the dichotomy. There
is only one revolution on the campus: the students’. It’s a three-stage process, and so far there hasn't been much
progress beyond the first two: Open revolt, and a return to the university with the values learned in the course
of revolt. Students have established their own programs, seminars, and projects. I'm looking for the third stage, however, the point
when the faculty and administration join in to make education live. No more Academic Games.

---

I remember back when I was a graduate student teaching Freshman Comp. It was a big state university and I
was one of (I think) 80 comp. teachers. They paid me $1,800 a year, and I played the Academic Game.
I don’t mean I didn't care; I cared. I did my best to train students to write acceptable papers for
college courses. What a goal! And I pretended to be shocked when out of a batch of essays we found
13 percent duplicates and eight percent probable plagiarisms, not to speak of the papers taken from fraternity files. I say
pretended because somewhere I knew it was all role-playing and that the students simply recognized this. Maybe it was the
smarter ones who created, who saw the game for what it was. But no—probably it was the type who were
smart as pickpockets are smart. Otherwise dead. Role-playing. Waste motion, all of it, except a few private talks that mattered
and a few class hours when within the squeeze of the syllabus, I could generate excitement about something. I'm not
giving any more students practice in writing academic essays which are themselves as unreal as the freshman essays. Unreal because
the upper-class academic essays are only more practice for graduate school essays which are again practice for publishing in PMLA
or American Journal of Sociology. And if you look at these journals, you'll be up against ultimate unreality. Instead of
this, I’m asking students to tell me something that matters to them, something that connects their lives with “The Oresteia”
or “The Bacchae,” and if nothing matters to talk about that. I'm asking them to use their own living language
and forget Academic Linear A. I won't play the role of being shocked at a comma fault or an inversion
of subordination. I'm asking my students to commit themselves to what they're saying. But much more in university life is
unreal. Because who controls the system but people who have been selected for unreality? It's a filtering process which usually
gets rid of people who are committed to living or gets rid of their commitment. I used to think that
it was faculty and students against administration. I was naive. Much of the faculty I've met is hung up in
its disciplines, responsive not to students but to national disciplinary societies, like the American Chemical Society, which dictates that chem
majors take 55 hours in math and science. And are students much less rigid? Give them free choice on essay
topics and you'll get half of them writing the same plodding academic essays they've found to be safe. Let a
discussion get going hot and half of them are uneasy that they're not taking notes for the exam. They suck
in “knowledge” because they're told, they discuss masterpieces because they're masterpieces. Ours is not to say it's bunk. Ours is
but to pass or flunk. So let's get rid of the Academic Game. Let's begin with exams. I spent 80
hours—two work weeks—on grading exams last year. Suppose I had 80 extra hours for talking to students? Suppose I didn't
have to feel apologetic for not preparing students for exam questions? Suppose I didn’t have to face resentment, self-dramatics, rebellion—all
the hangups (as if there weren't enough interpersonal problems in just learning and teaching!)? Maybe we'd feel we were meeting
because it intrinsically mattered. Maybe teachers would have to give students what are exams for anyway? To keep up standards?
You mean I'm spending two weeks a year to keep up a university's standards? Anyway, I think I'm achieving quite
opposite results. Exams create a course content which can be examined easily—often trivializing the work. Do exams “make students learn?”
I've heard that. What an incredible idea! I don’t want to make anyone learn anything in college—except maybe a white
rat. Exams create students who stop caring; they set up the rules of the Academic Game. What exams are really
for, I suppose, is selection: who gets into graduate school, who gets into the corporation. Do I have to serve
as a testing service for Harvard and Westinghouse? Why not let the corporations share the cost of a special test
after four years in residence? Why not let graduate schools judge on the basis of the GRE and written work
and personal interviews? Or maybe there's another, deeper reason for exams: maybe the faculty and administration are afraid that what
goes on here is just a game—that without the whip of examinations, the classrooms would be empty. Look at the
world of the Fathers—ignores the suffering. There are double locks on the doors in Brookline; there are locks on the
sympathetic imagination: on my sympathetic imagination, too. Men respond to horror as to sexuality: they turn it off—and they go
through the motions of living. And doesn't this creep into the university under the guise of scholarly objectivity? What about
calling it non-commitment and withdrawal? I have a faculty friend who started a near-riot by attacking a group of self-styled
patriots who were threatening some peace picketers. He tells me girls who had sat hands-folded all semester were quickened into
life: they cared; they brought in evidence that he was wrong. They blasted him and he blasted back. Out of
this living confrontation came more than an analysis of subcultural characteristics—though that too; what came was a commitment of living
thought. I remember a couple of years ago, teaching Thoreau's “Walden.” I quoted the passage criticizing university education, laughing at
the irony that even this idea students had to write in their notebooks. I said, if you believe what Thoreau
says, what are you doing here? So the University is in the truth, not just in the possession of truth.
