Peace Corps’ Omo Tells Of Turkish Life
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

Peace Corps volunteer Larry Omo, who served in Turkey for two years, presented a background of the Peace Corps and several personal experiences at Monday's chapel.

In October 1964, Omo and his wife were sent to Turkey, not knowing what type of work they would be doing. After an eight-day orientation program in Ankara, they were sent to a small village and assigned to “rural community development.” Omo spent the first four months in the community’s three coffee houses until he was fluent in the language. During this period and the remainder of his service, Omo indicated that he and his wife’s major accomplishment was learning to appreciate the viewpoint of the Turkish people.

Omo used as examples two projects which he and his wife undertook to demonstrate how easily cultural blunders can be made. In trying to start a kindergarten, they failed to realize that all of the villagers did not have clocks. After announcing that the kindergarten would meet at 9 a.m., the Omos found that the children would arrive from 6:30 a.m. until past noon. The Omos recognized their mistake and set the time at the second prayer call instead.

Another example of cultural misunderstanding was their trying to institute washboards for washing clothes. The Turkish women usually beat their clothes clean at the village horse trough. The Omos’ demonstration of the practicality of the washboard was well-received by the villagers, but no washboards were requested because the horse trough was an important place of social contact among the villagers.

Before leaving for Turkey, Omo had undergone a three-month training program in the language of the country. He spent six hours a day, six days a week in intensive study. Other areas of emphasis in the training program were the history and culture of the area assigned, a brush-up course in American history, and a physical training program.

There are now about 14,000 Peace Corps volunteers in 55 countries of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and the Far East. The newest program is now underway in South Korea.

(Staff Photo by Olson)
LARRY OMO, PEACE CORPSMAN
He Recalled His Experiences In Turkey

Foundation Instigates Leadership Program
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Richardson Foundation has recently chosen Davidson College as the location for a three-year experimental project for developing leadership among members of the freshman class. Davidson is the second college at which the foundation has started such a project. The first was Ohio University, where it created “a great deal of excitement and interest among the students and has worked effectively,” according to Davidson head football coach Homer Smith, chairman of the local project.

The keynote of the experiment is leadership. “The Richardson Foundation is vitally interested in young people, especially college students,” said Kirk Reed, one of the two student members of the committee working on this project. “The foundation wants to nurture their leadership talents as much and as early as possible. They are trying to determine whether future leaders can be found in the freshman year, and if so, how this can best be done,” Reed continued.

According to a letter which has recently been sent to 67 members of the freshman class, the students will be selected on the basis of “their high school activities; their success in academics; the impressions made on fellow students and on faculty members; and the judgment of men trained and experienced in the selection of young men for leadership positions in business, government, education, and the professions.”

Smith commented that there are three key benefits which the students will receive from this program through their four undergraduate years. They will receive a great deal of exposure to men who are in important positions of leadership in the form of interviews, conferences, and discussions. Travel will be an important part of the program, not only in America but also in Europe. The students will also participate in seminar discussions among themselves to talk over what they have learned and what they believe is involved in leadership. They will have to spend several hours a week in such activities.

Finally, they will be encouraged to do something in the field of extracurriculars or to undertake some major project that they can. The job does not necessarily have to coincide with the student's vocational aims.

“In general, the program will require much effort on the student’s part,” said Reed, “and the benefits will not merely be handed out. Students will have an opportunity to develop their potential and broaden their educational horizons. The whole program will be somewhat flexible and will be adapted to suit Davidson’s needs,” Reed added.

Approximately 22 of the freshmen who received letters will be selected to meet with a group of men from the Richardson Foundation on the weekend of April 1-2. After extensive interviews and

The Davidsonian March 10, 1967 Page Three

8 Faculty Committees To Have More Students
(ED. NOTE: This is the second in a series of four articles by Mike Bates on the proposed faculty constitution. Last week Bates discussed the constitution draft in general. This week he examines the new committee system as set up in the proposed constitution.)

By MIKE BATES
Editorial Correspondent

The new committee system is the very heart of the proposed draft for a faculty constitution. Therefore, the student role in these committees is of great significance for students and the whole college.

At present, the student body has representatives on three of the 30 standing committees of the faculty. These are the Academic Scheduling Committee, the Fallout Preparedness Committee, and the Religious Program Committee. The last committeehas three student members and the other two committees have one each.

REPRESENTATION

The proposed draft provides for student representation on eight of 18 standing committees. The eight are the Educational Policy Committee, the Student Life Committee, the Religious Policy Committee, the Foreign Study Committee, the Counselling and Guidance Committee, the Artist Series and Public Lectures Committee, the College Union, Fraternities and Clubs Committee, and the Building and Grounds Committee. Each of the above committees would have one student member. In addition, there would be three students on the Religious Program Committee, which reports to the Religious Policy Committee. Two of these three would be nominated by the other members of that committee. The President of the YMCA would be the representative on the Religious Policy Committee; he would also normally be one of the students on the Religious Program Committee. All other student representatives would be chosen by the Student Council.

The proposed draft would permit these committees to meet without students when necessary. "Any committee having student members may vote to meet in executive session, with students not being present for such session" (Article IV, 1 g). In a commentary sent to the faculty, Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, chairman of the Faculty Constitution Committee, makes very clear the understanding that any executive session would be "an exceptional case for which reasons would be given to student members." This is definitely the understanding which students have about this clause, and it would be quite desirable to have a simple sentence stating this understanding in the constitution itself.

MODERATE

Brinkley is accurate in pointing out elsewhere in his commentary that the suggested increase in student representation is a moderate proposal. There are numerous good reasons why almost every faculty committee should have at least one student member. Students have information and a perspective which makes their contribution to committee discussions especially valuable. In addition, giving students real responsibilities certainly encourages greater maturity and responsibility to the student body. Placing two students on the Blue Sky Committee has made a great difference in general student interest in the affairs of this important committee. On the other hand, it is difficult for students to have concern for the business of committees which do not formally value their opinion by having student members.

Several additional committees in the proposed draft should have student representation. The following four are definitely in this category: the Committee on the Library, the Committee on Athletics, the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid, and the Committee on the Budget. The affairs of these committees are of great concern to the entire college community, not only the faculty. The faculty certainly realizes the scope of their committees, for a majority of the present committees have non-faculty members. Students have a special and valuable contribution to make to the four committees named above as well as the eight committees of the proposed draft.

Cochran Elected As IFC President

Gus Cochran, Kappa Alpha representative to the Interfraternity Council, was elected president of the IFC Tuesday night. Bobby Vagt of Pi Kappa Alpha was elected vice-president. The vice-president is also chairman of the Judicial Board, which investigates the violation of IFC rules. Election of a secretary-treasurer was delayed until a later date. The council adopted unanimously a motion to ask the faculty to drop the rule requiring a rushee to have a 1.0 grade point average. This would remain a requirement for initiation.

Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, commended the council for its work this year. He specifically mentioned the excellent records kept on rush and the completeness of minutes of meetings. Outgoing President Mike Booe announced that four fraternities were fined by the Judicial Board for curfew violations during rush.

Oldsmobile’s new four-wheeled fun machine—swinging 4-4-2! Specs: 400 CID V-8, 115-inch wheelbase, heavy-duty springs, shock absorbers, shaft, performance axle, sway bars, front and rear, dual exhausts, beefed-up wheels, white-line or wide-oval red-line tires, buckets, carpets, louvered hood. All standard at one modest price. Includes dual master cylinder brake system, full list of important safety features. Can also be equipped with Rocket Rally Pac, UHV ignition, superstock wheels, front disc brakes, console, tach, ski rack, and the like. That’s Olds 4-4-2—sweetest move on rubber. Make it your move. At your Olds Dealer's.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND

No experience needed. You are fully trained and work on routes with proven high earnings.

HOW TO QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW

1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver's license and be willing to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

REGISTER NOW

Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to show you Good Humor’s folder explaining this high paying job and to schedule you for our campus visit.

*Earnings for females have not approximated this average in most cases due to legal restrictions on working hours for women.

An Equal Opportunity Employer-(M/F)