TASTE OF WINE AT DAVIDSON? (See Page Two)

VOL. LVII

By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

With orientation just completed, 276 beanied freshmen from 30 states and two foreign countries began Davidson careers by attending their
first college classes Wednesday. According to Admissions Director H. Edmunds White, the Class of '71 is "very able both in
terms of test scores and high school records."

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1967

Chambers Loses Tombs Of Gloom
Staffers, Freshmen Meet Sunday Night

FRESHMEN GET THE WORD
Debate Team Coach Ray McMillin Holds Forth At Activities Fair

Newly Oriented Freshmen Begin Tenure At Davidson

"There are individuals in this class with varied interests, including painting and philosophy. We feel Davidson needs people like this
and will benefit from their contributions."

Included in this year's freshman class are a greater number of scholarship finalists than usual. Seventeen of the 31 students
who attended the Davidson Scholarship Weekend last spring are now enrolled.

"Many of these students," White said, "were accepted at Eastern schools and faced tremendous pressure to attend there, but they
chose Davidson instead."

The members of the Class of '71 represent a broad geographical distribution. One boy is from England, and another's father
is a missionary in Japan. The homes of the new students stretch across the U.S. from Alaska to Maine and
from New Mexico to Bird Island, Minn. This year 23 percent of the student body comes from outside the South,
a percentage "slightly greater than usual," White commented. As usual, the largest number, 84, come from North Carolina. Georgia is
next with 28, Florida one behind. Nineteen freshmen call Virginia their home; 18, Tennessee; 15, South Carolina; and 10, Alabama.

Decision this year was taken on a total of 1044 applicants. Of these, 454 were accepted, 55 from private schools,
263 from small public schools, and 133 from large public schools. Sixty-one percent of these students accepted actually enrolled at
Davidson, an increase of three percent over last year.

Related Story See Page Four

The orientation for these freshmen started a week before classes began with a YMCA Freshman Camp at Camp Thunderbird. From
Friday until classes began Wednesday, the freshmen continued their orientation on the Davidson campus. They took qualification tests, toured the
library, received ROTC uniforms, attended various lectures, and learned about Davidson traditions and regulations.

Freshmen To Don Beanies, Speak To Upperclassmen

The Freshman Court Wednesday passed regulations requiring freshmen to wear beanies and name tags, speak to upperclassmen, and create a
class cheer by Homecoming. The court stressed that only its members can report and punish delinquent freshmen. Suggested punishments included
dusting library books. Further plans call for each freshman hall to arrange a display that will compete with fraternity displays
at Homecoming. At midterm, a banquet will be given to the freshman hall with the highest scholastic average. Arrangements are
also being made to set up a tutoring program for freshmen.

Court Asks End To Dorm Raids

Damage caused by a freshman raid on Belk Dormitory Monday night prompted a letter from the Student Body Regulations Court
yesterday cautioning against further water fights. According to the letter, delivered to every dormitory resident, damages from the Monday night
raid were excessive. "Just because water fights are traditional is no excuse for what is gross student irresponsibility," said Regulations
Court Chairman Bill Watson. Water stood as much as two inches deep in Belk following the raid, Watson said. He
said wet toilet paper, shaving cream, and confetti made from computer cards littered the dormitory and grounds. Watson, who pointed
out that raids hinder dorm improvement efforts, said future violations of student body regulations would be dealt with.

Up 'N' Coming

Saturday, September 16
4:30 p.m. Hootenanny
7:30 p.m. Converse Frosh mixer

Sunday, September 17
4 p.m. Faculty reception
7:30 p.m. Worship Service

Tuesday, September 19
10:20 a.m. Student Assembly

Union Patio
Morrison Room
Lawn -- President's Home
Lingle Chapel
Love Auditorium -- Scott Woodmansee, Chaplain

Thursday, September 21
10:20 a.m. Chapel

Friday, September 22
4 p.m. Faculty meeting
8 p.m. Movie: "The Professionals"

Morrison Room
Love Auditorium -- Rep. Charles Brown (D-Cal)
8 p.m. Movie: "The Professionals"
Morrison Room
8 p.m. Movie: "The Professionals"
Morrison Room

Summer's Toils Add Innovation

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

The thoroughly modern Chambers Building was unveiled to Davidson students this week as they returned to studies in the completely
renovated main classroom building. The interior of the 40-year-old classroom building was completely modernized. The wooden floors have been replaced
by multi-colored terrazzo hallways; acoustical tile has been installed on the ceilings; and a central air conditioning and heating system
has taken the place of steam radiators. The changes in the central college building are numerable, and more changes will
be completed in the near future. All the classrooms will be furnished by early next week; the air-conditioning will be
completely installed in October; and a new elevator will be installed in the rear of Chambers by the first of
next year. Classes promise to

COMPLAINTS HEARD
Publications Arrive

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Managing Editor

Mutterings over the late printing and delivery of three college publications were audible this week as the administration and student
body settled back into the academic routine. Some administration officials and students were pointing an accusing finger at the Office
of Public Information, which supervised the coordination of copy and the printing of the Davidson reference catalogue, the Wildcat Handbook,
and an admissions brochure. Public Information officials, in turn, laid the blame on the students and administrative departments responsible for
supplying the copy.

The reference catalogue, due for printing and delivery in late April or early May, did not arrive until late August.
The Wildcat Handbook, due in mid-August, did not arrive until today, nearly a month late. The admissions brochure was also
to arrive today, 10 days behind schedule.

Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development, said in a prepared statement: "Publication delays, which have proved a
handicap to both students and faculty, are a result of delays in supplying needed copy or in the prompt return
of proof to the Office of Public Information."be much more comfortable this year. The new flooring will prevent the squeaking;
new fluorescent lighting will replace the old light fixtures; and desks have been refinished. Faculty offices have also been remodeled.
Carpeting, new furniture, and individual telephones have been installed. In addition, a new central switchboard has been installed to link
all faculty and administration offices. The new Chambers is a building of many colors. Hallways on the first and second
floors are painted mustard yellow, while third-floor halls are lemon yellow. Offices and classrooms are painted lemon yellow, lime green,
or turquoise. The doors are painted a bright red, and stairways are covered with red rubber treads. (See CHAMBERS, Page
4)

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Bullard and daughter, Chrys Patrice, wish to express our gratitude to each of you for
your expressions of sympathy in the loss of our son, D. Sumner Bullard Jr. We hope that at some future
time we can acknowledge each one of the cards and letters we have received from you.

“Work on each publication was begun on an early enough schedule to assure a proper delivery.” The reference catalogue was
“crucially, critically late,” according to one administration official. Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White said he had promised to mail
catalogues to incoming freshmen in June but was unable to do so until late August. According to Director of Public
Information Russell A. Strong, however, the catalogue is not on a definite schedule. He pointed to other complications. “Every academic
department and every administrative office contributes to the catalogue. We are just the collecting agency.” Mike Mooty, editor of the
Wildcat Handbook, said he thought the handbook was tardy because its cover, done separately, was not ready when the book
itself was finished. Strong said, however, that the handbook covers were ready first and that typesetting was the chief problem.
“I’m sorry that it was not on time,” Mooty said. “But I still think it will be quite helpful to
both freshmen and upperclassmen—we went to great lengths to improve it.” Both Strong and White blamed the printer for the
admissions brochure’s delay. They said the printer told them that he did not have enough paper for the job and
further, that the printer could have checked his supply a month before he did. “Something like that really burns me
up,” White said. In the case of both the catalogue and the handbook, the production was handled by more than
one printer, thereby adding to the complications, Strong said. The handbook and catalogue were handled by firms in Charlotte, the
admissions brochure by a Statesville printer.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Copy Editor

If all goes as planned, head basketball coach Lefty Driesell will be the new owner of the building now occupied
by the College Restaurant on Main Street. Driesell said yesterday that the papers would probably be signed today or over
the weekend.

Davidson Nears Challenge Goal

Davidson College has raised $5 million of the $5.5 million needed to qualify for a $2.2 million challenge grant from
the Ford Foundation. This is the final year of Davidson's participation in the Ford Challenge program. In a report issued
recently from the challenge program co-chairmen, Walter L. Lingle Jr. and William A. White, it was stated that Davidson needed
only an additional $433,088 to receive the grant. The final deadline is June 30, 1968. All gifts must be made
and all pledges paid by that date in order to meet the terms of the challenge. One visible result of
the progress made in the challenge is the recent renovation of Chambers Building. Funds from the grants have been employed
to remodel and air-condition the 40-year-old classroom and administration building. Additional funds will be used to improve faculty salaries, provide
better equipment for instruction purposes, and improve library facilities. According to the challenge report, faculty members and administrators are proceeding
with the preliminary plans for a new library-learning center to fit the changing patterns of teaching and learning. In a
statement made early this month, President D. Grier Martin announced the amount needed to meet the challenge and said, “We
are hopeful that our alumni and friends will join efforts to help us reach and exceed our goal.”

CATS LAUNCH GRID SEASON. (See Page Three)

NUMBER ONE

A meeting of all DAVIDSONIAN staff members and interested freshmen will be held Sunday night at 10 in the newspaper
office on the second floor of the College Union. Freshmen who joined the staff during the Activities Fair Monday night,
as well as any others interested, are asked to attend. A number of positions are still open, according to Editor
Sam Boyte, and the purpose of the meeting is to brief prospective staffers. There are openings for reporters, copy readers,
and sports writers.

Assuming that the sale is made, Driesell said that he plans to remodel the building and reopen it as a
“college atmosphere” restaurant featuring pizzas, fried chicken, and a special sandwich menu. Driesell said that he plans to “serve the
best pizzas and sandwiches in the South.” He said that the menu may be changed and expanded once the restaurant
begins operation. He hopes to open his restaurant by the first home football game on Sept. 30. Renovation plans include
refinishing the floors, painting the interior, a probable facelift for the front, and possibly several other changes. The coach said
that he will probably change the name of the restaurant, (he mentioned “The Wildcat Den” as a possibility), and that
he may decorate it with Davidson sports pictures. “I've been talking to a couple of people about running the restaurant,”
Driesell said. In addition to the manager, Driesell said that (See DRIESELL, Page 4)

CAMPUS COMMENT

Yearbook Sparks Varied Reaction

Student reaction to the 1967 edition of Quips and Cranks has been very mixed, but never passive. In random interviews
conducted this week at the College Union, Davidson students said:

B. A. Aiken, senior: “It was a good annual—aesthetically pleasing. I would have liked to see more color and more
good photography, although most of the photography was good. It redefined the function of a yearbook because it did not
fulfill the old function.”

Marshall Quill, junior: “I don’t think it was representative of the Davidson campus. The photography was good. I don't think
sports were emphasized enough or that the book really reflected life at Davidson.”

Ken Scott, senior: “It was unique. I thought the use of pictures and lack of copy were subtle. The senior
section was very good. I think the whole thing means a lot more to students than outsiders.”

Joe Bentley, senior: “Nothing was mentioned about the Junior Year Abroad program. I thought it (the annual) was clever, but
perhaps it went too far in being clever. I thought the sports section was not as good as it should
have been.”
