Page Six May 12, 1967

PROMOTER GOES APE

It wasn’t really a gorilla that lumbered through the Union cafeteria this week—only a publicity-crazy gent with a deceiving costume.
He and his “trainer,” Robert Schrader, were on campus promoting the current attraction at a Charlotte theater. (Staff Photo by
Olson)

Short Orientation Forecast For Fall

By BRODIE BROWN
Staff Writer

Freshman orientation next fall will be shorter and more “informal and relaxed,” according to Freshman Advisers Tom Clayton and Clay
Ford. A variety of recreational activity has been planned for the freshmen. Movies, ping pong and pool tournaments, a mixer
with Queens, and the Union Activities Fair will add entertainment and a casual atmosphere to the orientation period.

A number of activities previously held during the orientation period will be postponed or canceled. Talks on the Honor Court,
Student Council and the serious values of the college have all been postponed until the first freshman assemblies. P.E. tests
will be conducted during the first P.E. classes. The tour of the infirmary has been canceled, and the tour of
the library placed on a voluntary basis. As a result of removing many such items, orientation will be one day
shorter, lasting from Sept. 8-12.

Attendance at freshman camp, which will deal with college education in general rather than Davidson specifically, will be strongly recommended
but not required. “Clay and I feel that a mandatory freshman camp would destroy the relaxed atmosphere that we hope
to achieve,” said Clayton.

The Freshman Court will be re-established next year to deal with violations of the use of beanies and nametags. The
court, already elected by the Student Council, will give punishment in the nature of constructive projects around campus.

By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees appointed nine new faculty members and approved a number of faculty promotions during its meeting last
week.

From the University of Houston comes John G. Holland, assistant professor of English. Holland has been an instructor at Davidson
and at Duke and will soon receive his PhD from UNC-CH. Raymond F. Martin, assistant professor of philosophy, having received
his BA and MA degrees from Ohio State University, is expecting his doctorate from the University of Rochester this year.
He has taught as an assistant at Ohio State and at the University of Rochester.

Randall R. Kincaid Jr. and Robert L. Avinger have received assistant professorships in economics. Kincaid holds an MA degree from
Duke where he is finishing work on his PhD and has been an assistant professor at King College and part-time
instructor at Duke. Avinger is a cum laude graduate of Davidson, a James B. Duke Fellow, and Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Having taught at the University of Mississippi and UNC-CH, Dirk French has been appointed instructor of classical languages. He holds
an MA degree from Princeton where he is currently working on his PhD. The trustees appointed Thomas P. Harrison visiting
professor of English. Harrison holds a PhD from Cornell, has taught at UNC-CH and at Cornell, and has been at
the University of Texas since 1935. He is the author of numerous articles, books, and reviews.

Political science from Princeton, where he is an assistant instructor. Fuller, a Danforth Fellow, a Woodrow Wilson Fellow, and a
Marshall Scholar, holds BA degrees from Pomona and Oxford and an MA from Princeton. A teaching assistant and research assistant
at Vanderbilt where she is receiving her PhD this year, Miss Carol Huffman has been appointed instructor of psychology. She
holds a BS from Indiana State College.

Dean of Faculty
Associate Dean of Faculty
Director of Union
Supervisor of Dormitories
College Physician
Scholar Adviser
Fraternity Liaison Officer
Assistant Director of Union
Fraternity House Mothers
Director of Library
Director of Athletics

ED. NOTE: This is the second of a series of three articles dealing with the decision-making process at Davidson.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Copy Editor

Two deans, familiar to most students if only by their reputations, supervise student and academic affairs at Davidson. In the
structure for decision making, both the Dean of the Faculty and the Dean of Students report directly to the president.
In addition, the Dean of the Faculty becomes the chief administrator of the college when the president is out of
town.

With the revised structure of the college, the Office of the Dean of the Faculty has perhaps been one of
the most enlarged in the scope of its operations. Before this year, his office had been primarily concerned with faculty
recruitment and curriculum changes, said Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of the faculty. Of course, there were a lot of routine
matters as well, he pointed out.

“In a sense, I'm just getting used to this (the revised structure). Yet I think this is a sensible sort
of alignment.” Citing an example, Johnston pointed out that under the new plan, the Admissions Committee reports to him instead
of directly to the president.

“I don’t pretend to administer the offices that report to me. I don’t make any pretense of controlling them,” Johnston
said. Thus the dean's office is in one sense a filtering plant for requests from the offices under its supervision.
Some decisions are naturally referred to the president or even to the trustees for decision.

As in the past, the Dean of the Faculty is still called on for decisions in curriculum and faculty matters.
Initiation for curriculum changes first come from the department concerned, Johnston said. From there a proposal goes to the faculty
Curriculum Committee, which considers the proposal, and then the matter goes before the full faculty for consideration.

“One person cannot change the curriculum,” Johnston emphasized. His role in such changes is one of coordination: the receiving of
requests from various departments and requests from students. Often, the student requests are for changes in requirements, rather than for
curriculum changes per se.

In regard to students, Johnston stressed that no one man can dismiss a student (nor can any one man admit
a student to Davidson). Rather, such action comes from committees, usually the faculty Executive or Curriculum Committee.“This makes for a
lot of meetings and it takes a lot of time,” Johnston said. But “I never resent the time it takes
to listen to a student's request,” he continued. In the recruitment of faculty, “The authority to recommend appointment is mine,”
Johnston said. “But I don't do this without consulting the department involved,” he continued. In addition, the appointment of faculty
members must be approved by the Board of Trustees. “Usually they don't object,” but Johnston said that it is his
policy not to release the names of new faculty members until after their appointments have been made official by the
trustees. Johnston went on to outline the steps taken in hiring a new faculty member. “If we want a man
in, say, the Department of Economics, we always bring the prospect to the campus for a visit. Not only can
we see him, but he can see the college,” Johnston said. The decision to hire a prospective member of the
faculty is first made by the Dean of the Faculty and the head of the department involved. The president and
then the trustees must approve appointments. In another area, the Dean of the Faculty must decide on the rank not
only for new faculty members, but also for advances in rank of present faculty members. In this matter, “I usually
get the advice of the departments involved, and sometimes I get outside advice,” Johnston said. “My biggest problem is the
mail,” Johnston said with a wry smile. He pointed out that there were many little “housekeeping” details involved with his
position as well as major important decisions in the academic area. Student affairs, ranging from disciplinary matters to student housing,
come under the supervision of Richard C. Burts, dean of students. “Students get the idea that I'm the kind of
fellow who doesn’t believe in water fights,” Burts said. Burts was using this as an example of one of the
types of decisions that he must make. He is called on to distinguish between a water fight that is mere
“fun” and one that has gotten out of control, resulting in real damage. Executive decisions, generally in situations when a
student has broken some rule, are a part of the decisions that the Dean of Students must make. In cases
when there is some question about what disciplinary measures will be handed out, a student’s case will be brought before
the Executive Committee of the faculty. (This is an elective committee, consisting of the president, the two deans, and six
elected faculty members.) Other types of decisions that the dean’s office must make involve counseling and referral cases. Sometimes cases
where problems of what is termed “total adjustment” come to his attention. Usually, in the last instance, the problem may
be an off-campus problem, involving police or court cases. Burts pointed out the paradox involved with his job. “I am
the first man to hear about some things and the last man to hear about others,” he said. In dealing
with students, definitely Burts’ major job, the problem of communication crops up. “Often a negative situation exists before I get
to it,” Burts said. He must deal with students who are withdrawing from Davidson, as well as students’ academic problems
referred to him by faculty members. In such cases, the dean is usually the “last man to hear.” Yet this
is still an area where a decision must be made. Matters of liaison are also part of the function of
the Office of the Dean of Students. Burts pointed to the “diffusion of academic responsibility” at Davidson. “The fact is
that I’m an academic dean, too,” he said. Thus, the Dean of Students must make decisions that are in a
sense compromises. Sometimes he must mediate between faculty requests on one side, and student requests on the other. “And I
do get caught sometimes” between the two, Burts said.
