Page Six February 24, 1967 She Davidsonian NORTH DOMINATES SOUTH Poverty, Lack Of Power (Staff Photo by Olson) NO REVOLUTION Elango Denies That Smaller New Nations Have Broken Chains. Armstrong Designated New Alumni Director William B. Armstrong, a 1961 Davidson graduate, has been named as the new alumni director to replace Bill Bondurant who now practices law in Charlotte. Armstrong started working full time Tuesday. Originally from High Point, Armstrong wrote for THE DAVIDSONIAN, took advanced ROTC, and was assistant editor of Scripts and Cranks, an English major and a member of Phi Gamma Delta. A graduate of Duke Law School in 1964, Armstrong was assistant editor of the Duke Law Reporter. He then entered the Army with the Adjutant General Corps and served in Germany for two years. He and his wife returned last Christmas. Armstrong's duties as alumni director include planning for weekend and Homecoming festivities for the alumni and keeping the alumni chapters informed about Davidson through the alumni magazine.

(Staff Photo by Olson) GETTING STARTED Armstrong Stares At Workload Ahead Of Him. Laundry Poll Indicates Drastic Modifications Service provided by the college laundry may undergo drastic changes next year as a result of rising costs and a recent student poll. The poll, taken on Feb. 16, showed that students favor some major changes. When asked if they would use coin-operated machines to wash such articles as wool socks, 299 voted ‘no’ to 103 voting ‘yes.’ Students showed they preferred their wash and wear pants left unpressed by a vote of 261-166. Shirts on hangers also were approved. 309 voted for the change and only 123 voted for retaining the familiar folded shirt. The laundry may furnish sheets and pillowcases next year. Students voiced their approval of this service by a vote of 337-92.

Davidsonian Staff Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, EDWARD DWELLE Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE, BOB TRAVERS Assistant Managing Editors: CHARLES McEWEN, KERN PARKER Sports Editor: TOM COOK Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER Photography Editor: BILL OLSON Photographers: DON CARROLL, DAVID WEEMS Cartoonists: GUNNAR MAGNUS, NAT HEYWARD Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER Contributors this week: Bob Dunham, Franklin Anderson, John Barber, Bob Buchanan, Bill Cockrill, Allen Lewis, Jim Cooley, Ken Cool, Chuck Green, Robert Pynett, John Williams, John Rowe, Marvin Bethune, George Cretekos, George Robinson, Bob Stubbs, Ben Sewell, Rick Saunders, and John Mack. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 210, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

The refusal of the richer Northern nations to stop their domination of newly emerging, poverty-stricken Southern nations could result in the destruction of these nations, warned West African Lovette Elango during Monday's chapel. Elango, sponsored by the YMCA as a Great Issues Speaker, is a native of West Cameroon and currently a history graduate student at Johns Hopkins University. His main thesis revolved around the relationship of the newly emerging nations and the world powers and on the revolution of the world power structure. The West African stated that this power structure had undergone a revolution since World War II. As a result of the war, Europe lost her position as the foremost power, her empires were dissolved and her former colonies gained independence.

Sunday Bryan Reid

Election (Continued from Page One) an assembly.” He also cited the need for better planning between the Union Board and the Social Council in order to present a unified program and for publishing the expenditures and budget of the Social Council. Both candidates showed a willingness to sample student opinion concerning types of entertainment and types of functions desired through the use of polls. Jennings called for “several polls” while Battle proposed one poll each semester. Battle and Jennings each approved of the referendum to increase social fees by $5.00 per semester. In his platform, Clay emphasized the unique role that the College Union must play in Davidson’s unusual social atmosphere. Among the proposals he offered are an on-campus radio station run by students, a full-time juke box at the Union, an updated record collection, an expanded hungry I with a dinner movie on Saturday nights. Aiken suggested a record-lending library, student art and photography exhibitions, regular coffee hours after athletic contests, a fine film series, and expanded world travel program. In order to see their shirts on hangers and to have their linens furnished, the students voted to “give up the luxury of ironed pajamas” by a 369-14 margin.They did not, however, agree to having their cotton pants left unpressed. C. W. Stacks, manager of the laundry, said that about one-fifth of those students participating made comments in the section provided. These ranged from, “Burn the place down” to “I don’t give a damn.” The most frequent complaint concerned missing or crushed buttons. Surprisingly, the second most frequent complaint was that the fronts of boxer shorts are not ironed. Stacks emphasized that regardless of the poll, any final decisions about the laundry service will have to be made by Business Manager Robert A. Currie and the business office. Plans have already been made for the rearrangement of equipment to facilitate the additional services. A new entrance to the building will also be necessary. Stacks also stressed that if the new services are added, with certain modifications, there will be no extra cost. Asked to comment on the success of the poll, Stacks said he was “disappointed in the number of people participating, but assuming that none of the seniors voted, it was a very good turnout.”

Night Open House
The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Leadership was assumed by the Soviet Union and the United States. In the past three years, there has been still another change. Whereas the power struggle has formerly been centered on an East-West basis, now it is being drawn along North-South lines. The primary reason for this development, Elango stated, lies in the fact that the nations to the north are industrialized, wealthy, and powerful, while their southern neighbors are new, undeveloped, and weak. There is a significant relationship between the economies of the two sets. The industry of the North depends upon raw materials from the South. In this sense, there has been no revolution as concerns the new countries. Though empires have formally been dissolved, the nations carved out of these holdings are still governed economically by the ex-colonial powers. The underdeveloped nation has no say in formulating world policy. The rich and powerful governments are the final arbiters and can preempt the decision of a weak nation. This is the great veto exercised by Washington and Moscow. The North is satisfied with the status quo and wishes to freeze the power setup. According to Elango, the Western psychology is based upon the notion that history is a success story of progress. But it has been successful for only half of the world. Westerners are likely to become defensive when some country acts in a manner that does not fit the West's concept of history.

If she doesn't give it to you... get it yourself!
Hub Cologne, 5 oz., $4.50
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50
Deodorant Stick, $1.75
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 12 oz., $8.50
Spray Cologne, $3.50
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50
SWANK, NEW YORK © SOLE DISTRIBUTOR

A banker today is a lot more than a money specialist who waits for the community to come to him. He’s a well-rounded, imaginative individual who knows how to present a package of financial services to fill his client’s needs. He’s professionally involved with every kind of business, from government to space exploration to problems of emerging nations. And he can’t be pigeonholed because versatility is one of the keys to his success. He has job status and pride of profession. And his compensation and employee benefits are the envy of many. His training is thorough and guided by experienced seniors who cushion the rough spots and put him on the high road when he’s ready in his own mind and deed. Before you make your big career decision, take a long look at banking. Ambition is the key, and the best way to check yourself out is to set up a give-and-take session with a Chase Manhattan Banker. One more thing. Modern banking is in. It asks for versatile, creative, imaginative men who want to range the community, the nation, and the whole wide world. Discuss the possibilities of a career in modern banking. A Chase Manhattan banker will be on campus soon. Your Placement Office will tell you when and where.

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK
National Association / 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, New York 10015
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
An Equal Opportunity Employer