Freshman registration for rush Wednesday night began preparations for Rush Week, which will be held during the first week of the second semester. This is the latest Rush Week that has been held at Davidson in several years, rush usually being held sometime in the first semester. During the first night of Rush Week, each freshman participating in rush will visit six fraternities, not seeing any fraternity more than once. The last two nights are reserved for re-dates at specific fraternities. The Interfraternity Council has passed several rules which will govern this year’s rushing activities. Contact in freshman dorms and fraternity houses between freshmen and upperclassmen during examination and rush week was forbidden by the IFC at its meeting Tuesday night. “This does not restrict contact between freshmen and fraternity men,” IFC President Mike Booe commented. “It merely states that such contact may not occur in the dormitories or fraternity houses.”

The IFC voted favorably on Booe’s proposal to have representatives from the fraternities meet the rushees at the dormitories and take them to the parties rather than have them go alone. Booe and IFC Representative Ben Cannon introduced the freshmen to the mechanics of rush during freshman chapel Monday. The actual mechanics and dates which will be used during this year's rush program have been released by the IFC. The 12 fraternities will return date cards with suggested dates to the IFC by 6 p.m. tonight. These cards will be available to the freshmen from 2-4 p.m. in Hodson Hall on Sunday. The freshmen will have until Monday at 1 p.m. to return their date cards in the brown envelopes located in the College Union.

Rush Week officially begins Jan. 30 with the first parties being held at 7 p.m. There will be three parties on both Monday and Tuesday nights, each party lasting an hour. After the parties Tuesday night, the fraternities will return their re-date cards to the IFC by Tuesday midnight. They will be available to the freshmen by 9 a.m. Wednesday and must be returned by the freshmen to the brown envelopes in the Union by 1 p.m. The re-date parties, which will last two hours each, will be held Wednesday and Thursday nights. Fraternities will then submit their bids to the IFC no later than 8 a.m. Friday, Feb. 3. These will be made available to the freshmen at 1 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The deadline for acceptance of fraternity bids is 5 p.m. that same day. The accepted bids should be initialed and returned in the brown envelopes to the box in the College Union.

The IFC has also designated “periods of silence” during which no contact will be permitted between freshmen and fraternity members. Not observing these rules will constitute a violation of IFC regulations. Such a period of silence will be observed during semester break from 5 p.m. Jan. 26 until 8 a.m. Jan. 30. During Rush Week there will be periods of silence from 10:15 p.m. Monday until Tuesday at 8 a.m.; from 10:15 p.m. Tuesday until 1 p.m. Wednesday; from 10:15 p.m. Wednesday until 8 a.m. Thursday; and from 10:15 p.m. Thursday until the end of rush at 5 p.m. Friday.

Activities increase

Due to suggestions from the Office of the Dean of Students, the Social Council is once again seeking to provide additional entertainment for Independents on big weekends. A questionnaire, asking Independents what type of activities they would like for the council to sponsor after concerts on the college's three major weekends as well as for lesser weekend concerts, has been issued. The questionnaires are to be collected Sunday. The council will begin action on them soon after then. Three alternatives are suggested on the questionnaire, including open fraternity parties, combo parties held on campus, and free movies. All three have been held in the past with generally poor response.

Second semester rush is the result of the latest attempts by the college to find an appropriate time to integrate rush activities with freshman life and other activities of the college.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1967 NUMBER FIFTEEN

Matthews Upholds Viet War Protest

Fraternity Guilty In Rush Case

Sigma Alpha Epsilon was found guilty of a rush violation last night at a meeting of the Interfraternity Council's Judicial Board. The case was the first rush violation this year. The violation was in the form of an off-campus social gathering which the fraternity hosted, according to unofficial sources. Officials of the board refused to release any information on the violation, other than the fact that a single fraternity had been convicted. A penalty was levied on the fraternity, but the board would not specify what it was. “As chairman of the Judicial Board I am not sure of the precedent for publishing our decisions,” Johnny Jeter told THE DAVIDSONIAN this morning. “Therefore, we are withholding announcement of the penalties involved until we notify the IFC and the administration.” In other action, the board convicted an individual fraternity member for violating the house curfew.

CHUCK MATTHEWS

Signed a letter to President Johnson questioning American involvement in the Viet Nam war. The letter is a second copy of one signed by 100 campus student leaders during the fall and sent to the President. The letter is being promoted by the National Student Association (NSA). The association is making an effort to obtain 100 additional signatures to send to the President. Matthews’ signature was the 199th.

Davidsonian To Cease Publication For Exams

As campus activity shifts to the library and lonely study rooms, THE DAVIDSONIAN will suspend publication for the examination period. The next issue will appear on February 3. Sunday night Open House at the homes of faculty and staff members will also discontinue during the two-week period starting this Sunday. The visitation schedule will resume second semester.

Class Of ’70 Evaluates Second Semester Rush

It's rush time at Davidson, and a lot of students are

Out In The Cold

By SAM BOYTE Managing Editor

With the increased emphasis upon enforcement of campus drinking rules, the Sadducees no longer pass the injured on the other side of the road. Now they check for booze. Monday night a member of the campus security force spotted a group of students attempting to place junior Dave White onto a stretcher after the student had fallen from a second-floor window in Richardson Dormitory. While they attempted to get the fallen angel to a hospital, the officer raced to the boy’s room in the hopes of uncovering Demon Rum. The officer was doomed to disappointment, however, as White had only been the victim of some dorm horseplay and the resulting attempts to solve the problem of escape from a burning dorm. Sunday night, playful hallmates had poured chemicals under White’s door and ignited them, scaring White and his roommate into believing the dorm was on fire and they were trapped in a burning room. The prank was revealed as they were exploring the possibilities of escaping on strips of sheeting. Monday night, mindful of the possibilities of an actual fire sometime, White and several hallmates attempted to find a more practical means of escaping from a burning room. Doubling a piece of light clothesline, White then lowered himself from his window on the improvised fire rope. On reaching the ground safely he decided to try the adventure of returning to his room by the same means. He had just reached his window sill when the line broke. Fearing that White might have been injured seriously by his fall to the frozen ground, a couple of students dashed to the college infirmary to get a stretcher. There they were met by a house-coated nurse who sharply reminded them of the proper hours for sick call and sent them away without a stretcher. After recuperating in the hospital for a day, White returned to classes Wednesday.Wondering what effect the new rush system will have on the fraternities. This year, for the first time, Rush Week is the first week of the second semester. In previous years, Rush Week was during the first week of school or sometime during the first semester. The philosophy behind the change was that the freshmen would have the chance to become a unified class. Waiting a semester would let them get settled at Davidson. They would also have more opportunities to get to know upperclassmen. Thus, the freshmen would be better prepared to make a decision about fraternities. Are the freshmen any better prepared? How well did the informal rush during the first semester work? Several freshmen were interviewed this week in an effort to determine how the freshmen feel about rush. There were several points of agreement and some points of disagreement which came out during the interviews. First, all the boys agreed they felt better prepared to go through rush. The one semester waiting period gave them a chance to settle down and find out a few things about fraternities. However, some said that there was a general lack of information about the fraternity system at Davidson. The boys also felt that they knew more freshmen than they would have under the old system. But there was disagreement about how well the upperclassmen had gotten to know the freshmen. One group felt that upperclassmen had not done a very thorough job of meeting the freshmen. This same group also said that the fraternities had not taken advantage of the opportunities to meet freshmen. Not so, said the opposing group. Upperclassmen have done a great job of making the freshmen feel at home. Freshmen, they said, had to put forth some effort, too. One of the boys expressed it like this: “A freshman can’t sit in his room and expect the upperclassmen to walk right in. He has to go out and meet them. Besides that, some of the upperclassmen are just as nervous about meeting freshmen as we are about meeting them.” In answer to the question, “How could the rush system be improved?” few suggestions were brought forth. However, one suggestion was that the fraternities have some kind of open house program so that the freshmen would have a chance to meet the fraternity men sooner and also get to see all 12 fraternities. Others said that they would like to be able to go to all the fraternities during Rush Week, instead of only six. There were a few suggestions that Rush Week be moved back to the first semester. The reason for this was that the freshman’s social life would be improved immensely. First exams will be given on Wednesday with the last ones coming on January 26.

After emphasizing that he was acting as an individual and not representing the student body or the student council, Matthews said, “Anyone reading the letter can see that it is not a radical statement. It is purposely not so because the students originating the idea of the letter did so because they wished to disassociate themselves from the more radical forms of student protest—draft card burning and other forms of civil disobedience—and yet report in a responsible fashion the growing student disillusionment and discontentment with the war.” The letter itself says that, “Unless this conflict can be eased, the U.S. will find some of her most loyal and courageous young people choosing to go to jail rather than to bear their country’s arms.” It also questions “apparent contradictions in the American position on efforts to negotiate a settlement,” the devastation of the countryside of Viet Nam, and the threat to America's vital interests. The letter is the result of a dispute between moderate and radical opponents to the war at last August's National Student Association (NSA) Congress. The moderates suggested the letter in response to suggestions of civil disobedience and picketing. During the fall, the letter was circulated to student leaders of college campuses and, with 100 signatures, released Dec. 30. The New York Times had a front-page story on the petition, and Time also featured the letter. Other schools in North Carolina whose student body presidents signed the letter were Duke, Queens, UNC-CH, Wake Forest, and UNC-G.

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte have announced the presentation of two unusual works for the chorus’s sixteenth season. The first concert will feature the world premiere of “Joseph,” a dramatic oratorio by Wilmer Hayden Welsh, associate professor of music and college organist. This concert is set for Jan. 21. The chorus will sing Beethoven’s “Missa Solemnis” on May 6. This is the first time this work has been performed in this area of the country. Both concerts are at 8:15 in Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte. Robert Reed, co-star of the television program “The Defenders,” will act as narrator for Welsh's program. Soloists for the performance will be Walter Carringer, tenor, Hona Kombrink, soprano, Gordon Myers, baritone, and John West, bass, all of whom have varied professional experience.

Student Council members are initiating the long-awaited faculty evaluation project this week, as cooperating professors will distribute the evaluation forms to their classes. The program, which is entirely voluntary, will consist of a two-page questionnaire which students will fill in and return to their professors. No one, other than the individual professor, will see the forms. Ken Autrey, chairman of the council's Academic Committee, urged students to be fair and responsible in filling out the forms. “This is an opportunity for the student to provide an evaluation which will be helpful to his professor,” Autrey said, “but it will also be a chance for him to rethink his attitude toward his work.” The committee consulted programs used at other colleges and universities, including Southwestern, Michigan State, Grinnell, and UNC to formulate their own form.

The Student Curriculum Committee will meet Monday to discuss student response to the Blue Sky Committee. “We hope some constructive work and formal suggestions will come from the Student Curriculum Committee,” Bobby Lane, student member of the Blue Sky Committee, commented in making the announcement. Student Body President Chuck Matthews said the purpose of Monday’s meeting is “to consider ways for eliciting more student response and student interest” in the curriculum reform. The student committee will continue to meet for the rest of the year. Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston and Professor Earl MacCormac form the Subcommittee on Bibliography. The Subcommittee on Individual Study and Special Programs includes Johnston, MacCormac, and students Herb Jackson and Cary White. Faculty members M. E. Polley, Charles Ratliff, J. M. Fredericksen, W. H. Welsh, and students Ross Cornwell and Chris Hawk make up the Subcommittee on Present Curriculum, Its Strengths and Weaknesses. The Subcommittee on Curriculum Structure includes Barry Sickles and professors MacCormac, Locke White, and Louise Nelson. Jim Rostan, Chuck Matthews, and professors J. G. Martin, J. H. Ostwalt, and H. E. White form the Subcommittee on Credits, Evaluation, and Graduate School Admissions. Al Varner and Professors Frank Bliss, J. O. Embry, P. B. Secor, Welsh, Allen Wol, and M. R. McMillin constitute the Subcommittee on Special Curriculum Innovations. The Subcommittee on Non-Western Studies includes George Brown, David Elisha, Ken Scott, and professors Polley, Ratliff, G. L. Abernethy, and P. A. Marrotte. The Subcommittee on Special Teaching Devices includes professors Ostwalt and J. D. Kelton and Bill Norfleet and George Shaw. Woodworth and D. F. Layman serve on the Subcommittee on Curriculum Scope: Requirements, Core Programs, Departments, Divisions, etc. with professors Embry, Johnston, R. R. Bernard, Joe Drake, Ralph Gable, S. D. Maloney, and J. S. Purcell. The Subcommittee on Student Life includes Bill Andrews, John Gresham, Bobby Lane, professors Martin, Ratliff, A. S. Abbott, A. B. Brinkley, W. G. McGavock, and H. M. Epes. Frank Fleming, Toby Watt, Bliss, and Ostwalt comprise the Subcommittee on Importance of Changes in the Secondary School Curriculum.