i *& z way Th er Havinsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1967

TRUSTEES CONTROL DECISION MAKING (See Page Six)

NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

e Trustees’ Vote Implements Faculty Constitution Draft

| Toe ws Board Sets

“I think the action was reason.

VOL. LVI

The trustees today tabled action on the faculty's proposed Fraternity Affiliation Program until the October meeting of the board.

able,” said Tom Covington, administration liaison officer to the fraternities and a chief sponsor of the program. “It provides an
opportunity for exploration into the proposals.”

“It provides an opportunity,” he continued, “for further discussion among the students and faculty.”

The faculty earlier this semester adopted a plan which would guarantee every student the chance for association with a fraternity
either through actual membership or through social affiliation. According to the plan, every student going out for rush would receive
a Type A bid, which would be just like bids offered by the fraternities now, or a Type B bid.
The Type B bid would involve social affiliation for a period of two months, one year or more depending on
the rapport between the affiliate and the fraternity.

The development of this plan grew out of a faculty request issued last year that the fraternities come up with
a plan for instituting some sort of 100 percent affiliation system. The plan was drawn up and proposed by a
committee of the Interfraternity Council which included the fraternity presidents.

LAST REYNOLDS LECTURER

Bronowski To Speak Tuesday

Bronowski To End Reynolds Series

Dr. Jacob Bronowski, the second Reynolds lecturer in two weeks, will address Davidson students here Tuesday. The well-known mathematician, author
and researcher, will speak at morning assembly and again that night in Hodson Hall at 8:15. He is presently a
Senior Fellow of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego. The men of the Institute are devoted to
the study of man as a whole, including his biological, mental and social development.

Bronowski has won recognition for his literary works. He has written several books on the philosophy of science, the best
known being Science and Human Values. His drama The Face of Violence won the Italia award for the best dramatic
work broadcast throughout Europe during 1950-51. Another work, The Abacus and the Rose: A New Dialogue on Two World Systems,
won an Ohio State award in 1965 from the University’s Institute for Education.

Bronowski is an authority on poet William Blake and has published several works about Blake. Born in Poland in 1908,
Bronowski lived in Germany during his early years and came to England for his education. He read mathematics at Cambridge
University from 1927 to 1930 and received his PhD degree in 1933.

In 1944, Bronowski left Hull University, where he was Senior Lecturer, to become head of some statistical units which were
evaluating the economic effects of bombing. He also did some studies on the effects of atomic bombs at Hiroshima and
Nagasaki. Later he became Director of the Coal Research Establishment of the National Coal Board. While he held this position,
he was responsible for research which led to the discovery of a new process for making smokeless fuel, the process
which is in use in Britain today.

The trustees today tabled action on the faculty's proposed Fraternity Affiliation Program until the October meeting of the board. They
also asked the faculty to rescind their action in adopting the report so that, according to Walter Lingle, president of
the trustees, “we'll not be frozen to what was proposed—we'll be able to take a broader look at the problem.”

In a prepared statement, President D. Grier Martin announced, “The trustees endorsed in principle the broadening of fraternity involvement through
a program of extended contact available to all students before the decision of membership.” The proposal received considerable attention. Walter
L. Lingle, chairman of the board, commented, “We're taking a very hard look at the problem.” The action was taken
at the recommendation of Harllee Branch, chairman of the trustee's Campus and Social committee.

The board received the proposal quite sympathetically, Lingle reported, commenting that because the action was tabled, there will be a
“considerable opportunity for a good deal more study among students, faculty and fraternities.” The delay will not affect next year's
rush program if it is passed at the October meeting since it would not have gone into effect until second
semester next year, even if it had been passed today.

TRESPASSING CHARGED

2 Students Arrested At Strike Site

By ROBERT PYEATT

Assistant Managing Editor

Two of the eight Davidson students participating in a labor demonstration in Greensboro Tuesday afternoon were arrested and charged with
disorderly conduct and trespassing. “Apparently they just needed to arrest someone, and I was standing in the wrong place,” said
one of them.

The demonstration was in front of an office building where stockholders of Cone Mills Corporation were meeting. About 300 students
and workers participated. All seven Cone Mills plants in North Carolina are currently under a one-week strike which began Sunday
night. The strike by the Textile Workers Union of America (TWUA) is aimed at redress for “unfair labor practices,” according
to the union.

Davidson students have been marching on the picket lines at the Salisbury Cone Mills plant since the strike began. Tuesday
afternoon they went to Greensboro with members of the Salisbury TWUA local to the demonstration which included workers from all
Cone plants and students from Duke, UNC, Livingstone and UNC-G.

The stockholders left the meeting one by one and passed the line of jeering pickets going to the parking lot.
Finally, only one car remained in the lot, and the chanting, clapping crowd waited for the arrival of Clarence Cone,
vice-bargaining executive. Over 50 Greensboro police surrounded the picket line, which was confined to a narrow sidewalk adjoining the parking
lot. Several Cone headquarters employees had been deputized and were also serving as law enforcement officers.

As Cone emerged from the building the shouting of the crowd approached a crescendo. When one of the Davidson students
stepped off the sidewalk onto the grass bordering the parking lot, one of the company deputies grabbed him and arrested
him. The shouting was deafening and there was a mob atmosphere as other arrests were quickly made. A girl, her
arm twisted behind her back, was dragged to a paddy wagon. Her husband, running after her, was also arrested.

Former SNCC Organizer Leads Carolina Activists

Eighteen-year-old Lynn Wells is a quiet, cute, positive girl with a pixie smile and long black hair. She is also
the North Carolina coordinator of the Southern Student Organizing Committee and veteran and leader of many civil rights demonstrations. She
once was part of a sit-in at the White House that lasted seven hours. She dropped out of high school
at the end of the tenth grade and worked in a white community poverty program in Washington, D. C. She
first became involved in student action in the march on Washington in 1963.

“In the ninth grade, I decided because of my experience in gangs, that there was a lot of potential in
these gangs that could be developed. That's why I got into the poverty program,” Miss Wells said. “In the gangs,
they hate authority and rich people.”

After the poverty program she worked for the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee for two years as a field secretary in
Washington. She ran a “freedom school,” where she taught Negro history and did tutoring. “In 1965 I sat-in at the
White House with ten others,” Miss Wells explained. “During the week of ‘Bloody Sunday’ in Selma, when all the marchers
got beat up, we were in the White House seven hours protesting police brutality.”

In February of this year she began working with SSOC personnel on a white students’ conference. She became interested in
SSOC and was offered a job with it. “The reason I came to North Carolina was that unions, when first
organized, are about the most radical things around. The problem is keeping them radicalized,” she said.

Miss Wells can often be found late at night in a union hall in Greensboro doing the necessary behind-the-scenes preparation
for a demonstration in support of the union.Well as the president an ex-officio member of each of the faculty committees.
Such an arrangement would ensure better communication between the faculty and administration, according to Trustee President Walter Lingle. “This way
there will be someone to represent the president on the committees when he isn't able to attend.” Faculty approval of
the modification, called “really not very significant” by Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, chairman of the Faculty Constitution Committee, is virtually
assured. Brinkley said the faculty would probably consider the matter Tuesday at its regular monthly meeting. “I expect it will
pass without any difficulties,” he said.

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

Most fraternity leaders are maintaining a “wait-and-see” attitude about next week's crucial meeting of administration officials and national fraternity representatives.
The meeting, to be held Friday in Charlotte, was prompted by the Interfraternity Council’s controversial total affiliation plan, which was
to go into effect next year. The national offices of several of Davidson's 12 fraternities have already voiced strong disapproval
of the new plan, adopted by the IFC in response to a faculty ultimatum to alter the system to incorporate
the whole student body. Eleven of the fraternities have heard from their national headquarters concerning the plan, believed to be
unique in American Greek letter societies. Several of the nationals have suggested possible suspension and even revocation of chapter charters.

Local reaction to the responses from national offices divides into two groups. Leaders of the four fraternities that have been
assured that no action will be taken against them expressed satisfaction with the situation. Most of the others are waiting
to see the outcome of Friday's meeting, which will be closed to students. Reaction to the plan itself among fraternity
members has included numerous objections. One outgoing president called the plan “the beginning of the death of Davidson fraternities.” “The
school is telling us who we can have at the house,” he said, “and this is destroying the idea of
the brotherhood.” Another past-president disagreed. “We support the plan as a way out,” he said, commenting on the proposal last
year to do away with fraternities at Davidson.

What will happen to the Davidson fraternity system if most fraternities lose their national charters? The idea of the local
fraternity has been viewed in both positive and negative respects, since it appears to be the only recourse. The main
disadvantages of local fraternities being considered at the present time is the problem of putting on an effective rush program.
“It’s going to be difficult for a local group to put on an effective rush when they are in competition
with a group which has a national emblem on their front porch,” commented one student. Another fraternity member (See REACTION,
Page Six)

He praised Brinkley, as well as three trustees: Lingle, Vice-President Warner Hall, and Secretary William F. Mulliss. “This proposal was
passed back and forth a number of times in the last year,” Martin said. “It was a real exercise in
the kind of negotiation that ought to be present in something like this.” Brinkley hailed the trustee action as “certainly
a most gratifying conclusion to a long ordeal.” The document approved by the trustees is the second draft—revised—prepared by the
Constitution Committee. The second draft, first approved by the faculty last month, was revised upon the request of several faculty
members desiring a “stronger faculty voice” and given final approval April 25. The revised draft contains several minor changes as
well as a third preamble, which states the faculty's obligation “to serve in the formulation, enactment and implementation of educational
policy and of those policies which directly and indirectly affect educational policy.”

In other action today, the trustees:
- Adopted in written form the “Principles of faculty tenure” which have been followed by the college since 1951. Although
the principles are not contained in the Trustee By-Laws, Lingle said that they would have the same effect.
- Took action on a petition concerning athletics received from the faculty last year. Lingle said the faculty would consider
the trustees’ proposals on the matter, as yet undisclosed, at its meeting Tuesday.

Trustees Authorize Plans For Library Construction

Authorization to proceed with initial planning for the construction of a new library was granted today at the meeting of
the Board of Trustees. The members of the Building and Grounds Committee were commissioned to meet with President D. Grier
Martin to decide on the site for the library and conclude the initial plans for the site. The plans will
then be presented to the trustees at their fall meeting in October. Trustee President Walter Lingle emphasized the trustees’ intention
to “build a new library rather than to renovate the old.” The plans will include a proposed exterior design and
general floor plan, but not the blueprints.

Poll To Measure Library Site Pick

Rising student opposition to the leading site alternative for the proposed library will be measured in a student poll during
chapel next week. The student body will be asked to examine sketches of the three leading site proposals and choose
the one which they feel is the best, basing their evaluation on convenience for students and addition to the campus
appearance. The three sites to be evaluated are:
- The area in front of Watts and Little Dormitories;
- The area between the Student Union and Duke Dormitory;
- The area across Concord Road completing the Quadrangle of Chambers Building, Martin Science Building, and the present library.

Student Body President Tom Barnhardt, who initiated the poll, said, “Students should have some say since it will affect them
more directly than anyone else. I do hope everyone takes the poll seriously.” The leading proposal at present is the
site in front of Watts and Little. Architect's drawings on this area show the new library as a completion of
the north side of the front campus. According to Assistant to the President Fred Sackett, this area would allow for
expansion of facilities should future college growth make such expansion necessary.

A sampling of student body opinion by THE DAVIDSONIAN this week showed a preference for the Quadrangle site, which was
suggested originally by Director of the Library Chalmers G. Davidson. Of the several students interviewed, junior Price Cameron was the
most emphatic. He said, “If we put the library in the area in front of Watts and Little, we will
destroy the beauty of the campus.” He said that he saw no substance to the complaints that the quadrangle site
was too isolated from the students. “As far as that is concerned,” he added, “it is only about thirty steps
further than the present library. The fact that it is across the street makes it seem further than it actually
is.”

The trustees’ action climaxed work by both the faculty and representatives of the trustees that began over a year ago.
“It (the approved constitution) is a considerable achievement on the part of the people who represented both the faculty and
the trustees,” said President D. Grier Martin.
