Page Four February 10, 1967 The Davidsonian

Laundry To Iron Out Pressing Problems

The Student Council will conduct a poll in one of next week's chapels to determine student reaction to proposed changes in laundry service for next year. C. W. Stacks, manager of the college laundry, says that all laundries as of this year come under the federal minimum wage law. This, he says, will result in increased labor costs for the college laundry, which ordinarily would have to be met by increased rates.

Stacks has offered two proposals that would not result in increased charges. These proposals are the outgrowth of student action and inquiry led by Tom Earnhardt. The two choices are to end college laundry service as it exists now and substitute it with coin-operated laundromats or to modify the service by reducing the pressing of pants. In response to student requests, the laundry stopped pressing pants. After this, other students asked for a continuation of pressing pants. Now the laundry is selecting what pants to press.

Stacks says he realizes there will be students who will want their pajamas and pants ironed, and this service will be available at additional cost. Stacks sees this as the most sensible answer to increased labor expenses which would otherwise increase student cost by almost 60 percent over the next four years.

The only other alternative is coin-operated laundromats and disbanding of the laundry. Stacks says there has been much discussion of the pressing problems caused by folding and packaging. The laundry can provide sheets and pillowcases for the entire student body and launder them cheaper than they can launder the student's own linen. Besides providing students with linen at no extra cost, Stacks’ new proposal would include separate laundering of shirts. These would be hung on hangers, eliminating creases and wrinkles caused by folding and packaging.

MIDWINTERS!

Let us clean your suits, coats, pants, sweaters, and ties and wash your good shirts for the weekend.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD, CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE ELK'S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere In the Central Carolinas

Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course

The ELK'S Now Operated Under New Management

JOSH WHITE, JR. TO RETURN

Josh White, Jr., son of the folksinger and a folksinger himself, will pay a return visit to Davidson during Midwinters. White will stage an informal concert in the early morning hours Saturday, Feb. 18 at the Union. Main attractions for Midwinters are The Impressions, who, along with The Showmen, will play at the Lake Norman House of Music, Friday night, Feb. 17. Folksinger Judy Collins will give a concert on Saturday night. Following her concert, the Union will show the film Seven Days in May.

Symphony To Give Concert Monday

The Baltimore Symphony Orchestra will open the 1967 Artist Series Monday at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The 82-man orchestra is under the direction of Peter Herman Adler, who became permanent conductor in 1959. As a director, Adler has had experience in television and opera. He founded the NBC Opera Company which presented televised productions and has conducted at the New York City Opera Company. For the first time, Artist Series tickets will be sold on a reserved seat basis. Students may pick up their free tickets at the Union desk until 4 p.m. of the day of the program.

189 Rushees Accept Bids To Fraternities

The 189 Freshmen pledging a fraternity are as follows:

Alpha Tau Omega: Eddie Bridges, Dennis Burt, McCrea Ewart, Andy Goodson, Ken Hill, Todd Hutton, James Puckett, George Robinson, Wray Stevens.

Beta Theta Pi: John Baker, Wright Caughman, Charles Cowsert, Ken Crows, Mike Culbreth, John Foster, Bill Gammon, Richard Howard, Guy Jeter, Dave McClintock, John Powell, Hunter Rice, Ken Rice, Ed Terry, Bart Walker, John Zahartov.

Kappa Alpha: Nelson Abell, Karl Bauknight, Joe Carr, Ed Castelloe, John Chalk, Neal Dettmerring, Dale Durham, John Ferguson, Dave Fishback, Romey Fisher, Frank Gray, George Hannen, Dan Herd, Tad Lowdermilk, Jim McAdams, Ed McLawhorn, Sam McNevley, George Moskos, Charlie Sandlin, Jim Smoak, Bob Wrenn.

Phi Delta Theta: Ed Bartle, Emerson Bell, Mac Davis, Terry Esterkamp, David Fisher, Garth Hampton, Pierce Irby, Joe Kilpatrick, Jim May, Ben Moore, Bill Moretz, Whit Morrow, George Pennick, Jann Postma, Carl Salter, Doug Stott, David Thompson, Bill Traxler, Tom Way.

Phi Gamma Delta: Randall Fields, Thomas Powell, Terrell Pulliam, Sam Rankin, Steve Rowland.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: David Branch, Charles Brockwell, Sid Cottingham, Ed Dannely, Dwight Hale, Allen Hawkins, Lynn Himes, Wendell Holmes, Dave Hostetter, Rusty Mickler, Glenn of other popular colors. Regulars and Longs.

John Mock & Son
MOORESVILLE
Clothing For The Pace Setting Traditionalist

Clip this coupon and cut your fare in half. If you’re a student under 22, you can go half-fare almost anywhere Eastern goes with an Eastern Youth Fare ID card. Simply fill in the coupon. Enclose proof of age, plus a $3.00 check or money order payable to Eastern Airlines. If everything’s in order, we'll send you your Youth Fare ID card entitling you to fly coach on Eastern for half-fare anytime there’s a seat available at departure time. The Youth Fare is not available for a few days during the Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Easter holidays. Now isn’t that a great ID?of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!" "Dobie Gillis," etc. On Campus

STAMP OUT YOUNG LOVE

It happens every day. A young man goes off to college, leaving his hometown sweetheart with vows of eternal love, and then he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in such cases, is the honorable thing to do? Well sir, you can do what Crunch Sigafoos did. When Crunch left his home in Cut and Shoot, PA, to go off to a prominent midwestern university (Florida State), he said to his sweetheart, a wholesome country lass named Mildred Bovine, "My dear, though I am far away in college, I will love you always. I take a mighty oath I will never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch and wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may my ever-press slacks go baggy!"

Then he clutched Mildred to his bosom, flicked some hayseed from her hair, planted a final kiss upon her brow, and went away, meaning with all his heart to keep his vow. But on the very first day of college, he met a coed named Irmgard Champerty who was studded with culture like a ham with cloves. She knew verbatim the complete works of Franz Kafka, she sang solos in stereo, she wore a black leather jacket with an original Goya on the back.

Well sir, Crunch took one look and his jaw dropped and his nostrils pulsed like a bellows. Never had he beheld such sophistication, such intellect, such savoir-faire. Not, mind you, that Crunch was a dolt. He was, to be sure, a country boy, but he had a head on his shoulders, believe you me! Take, for instance, his choice of razor blades. Crunch always shaved with Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and if that doesn't show good sense, I am Rex the Wonder Horse. No other blade shaves you so comfortably so often. No other blade brings you such facial felicity, such epidermal elan. Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades take the travail out of shaving, scrap the scrape, negate the nick, peel the pull, oust the ouch. Furthermore, Personnas are available both in double-edge style and in injector style. If you're smart—and I'm sure you are, or how'd you get out of high school—you'll take my advice and switch to Personna.

But I digress. Crunch, as we have seen, was instantly smitten with Irmgard Champerty. All day he followed her around campus and listened to her talk about Franz Kafka and like that, and then he went back to his dormitory and found this letter from his hometown sweetheart Mildred:

Dear Crunch,

Us kids had a keen time yesterday. We went down to the pond and caught some frogs. I caught the most of anybody. Then we hitched rides on trucks and did lots of nutty stuff like that. Well, I must close now because I got to whitewash the fence.

Your friend,
Mildred

P.S. I know how to ride backwards on my skateboard.

Well sir, Crunch thought about Mildred and then he thought about Irmgard and then a great sadness fell upon him. Suddenly he knew he had outgrown young, innocent Mildred; his heart now belonged to smart, sophisticated Irmgard. Being above all things honorable, he returned forthwith to Cut and Shoot, PA, and looked Mildred straight in the eye and said manfully, "I do not love you anymore. I love another. You can hit me in the stomach with all your might if you want to."

"That's okay, hey," said Mildred amiably. "I don't love you neither. I found a new boy."

"What is his name?" asked Crunch.

"Franz Kafka!" said Mildred.

"I hope you will be very happy!" said Crunch and shook Mildred's hand and they have remained good friends to this day. In fact, Crunch and Irmgard often double-date with Franz and Mildred and have barrels of fun. Franz knows how to ride backwards on his skateboard one-legged.

So, all's well that ends well—including a shave with Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades and Personna’s partner in luxury shaving—Burma-Shave. It comes in menthol or regular; it soaks rings around any other shaving cream.