Complaints Dished Out To Slater ~*~ — _In Hash Over Food And Service

By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

The food served and the service at the College Union have elicited many complaints recently. Complaints have included informal, private grumbling and formal complaints to Klaus Kleeberg, cafeteria manager for ARA-Slater Food Service.

Two students who lodged a lengthy complaint with Kleeberg charged that service in the cafeteria is unnecessarily slow and that the food served is poor. They complained that menus showed little imagination, and there was little variety in the food served. Senior Price Cameron pointed out that pork and hamburger have been served several times a week for two or three weeks and that vegetables suffer the same lack of variety. He also complained of an overabundance of starches at most meals, claiming that such items as spaghetti, potatoes, and corn have not infrequently been served in the same meal.

Kleeberg said that corn is not a starch. Senior Ken Scott, who has served as head waiter for Slater-sponsored banquets, commented, “It seems as if banquets and people from other schools take precedence over Davidson students. When there’s a banquet, the food served to students suffers.”

These students also voiced several complaints about the snack bar. They charged that prices are too high, especially for ice cream, and that service is poor because Kleeberg has employed few counter workers. Kleeberg said that no profit is made off the snack bar, so prices could not be lowered. When students complained about the quality of meat served at a recent meal, Kleeberg said that it was U.S. Choice grade but admitted that there were better qualities of meat which he could serve. Senior Bill Farr later pointed out that U.S. Choice meat is a label which says nothing about the quality but merely certifies that it has been properly processed.

Senior Tom Pope complained that a meal—meat, two vegetables, salad, dessert, milk, coffee—when purchased singly, costs 88 cents on a weekday noon, $1.03 at night, and $1.29 on Sunday, even when the same meal is served each time. Other students complained about not being able to get any food if they were a few minutes late for a meal even if food remained on the steam tables.

Graduates Face Draft Next Year

Increased Vietnam war draft calls mean fewer Davidson students will make it to graduate school next year although the number of students applying is not declining, according to Dr. William B. Hight, director of student counseling. John F. Morse, director of federal relations for the American Council of Education, was quoted in “The Chronicle of Higher Education” as saying “virtually all” students graduating from American schools next year could be drafted. Hight said he did not think there has been a drop in graduate school applications by Davidson students because of the probability of the draft.

Expanding Consciousness Raises Knowledge Limits

“The expansion of consciousness is a perennial urge,” said Dr. T. A. Williams Monday night. He spoke at Sigma Alpha Epsilon on “The Expansion of Consciousness,” the final discussion in the “Blow-Up ’67” series. Williams, assistant professor of French, said there are “limits to that which is knowable. However, most of us refuse to accept these limits.” He defined “expansion of consciousness” as man’s departure from these limits and his contact with higher reality.

Williams began with the pre-Renaissance occult doctrines and contrasted the Hermetic theory and Jewish mysticism with Christian mysticism. After the Renaissance, the idea of consciousness expansion became secular. Surrealism in art and literature helped bring a liberation of the mind. Williams questioned the value of modern drug use, particularly LSD and mescaline, for expansion of consciousness. “Can such a mundane cause produce an effect so worthwhile?” he asked.

During the discussion period following the lecture, Williams said, “If I could take LSD under the proper circumstances, I would.” The “proper circumstances” would include the guidance of a professional psychologist. He said the mature person would have the most valuable experience.

Control Of Lingle Manor May Be Changed Again

Lingle Manor, seemingly under the control of the Freshman Council after being abandoned last month by the Lingle Manor group, may change hands again. The College Union Board, meeting Monday night at the Manor, tentatively decided to apply for control of the building. The Manor's facilities were first turned over to the Freshman Council last week by the Student Council, which took over the Manor's treasury and facilities when its members voted to disband. B. A. Aiken, president of the Union, said Monday, however, that since the building is college property, the decision on its fate should belong instead to the college. He said that this was the position being taken by the faculty Committee on the College Union, Fraternities, and Social Life.

The board tentatively decided to apply to the committee for control of the Manor. Meanwhile, the freshmen, who also met Monday to reconsider the matter, agreed that the group with the best proposals should get the building and suggested a compromise solution based on a joint Union-Freshman Council board. “If they (the Union Board) have got better ideas, we should relinquish our right to run the place,” said Freshman Council President Steve Engstrom. Engstrom called for a freshman subcommittee to draw up a proposal of its own to be sent to the faculty committee.

The freshmen and the Union have drawn up similar plans for the Manor's use. “It should be a place where you can go and not feel compelled to do anything,” said Ed Embree, vice-president of the Union. He suggested study and music listening rooms upstairs and lounges downstairs. A possible compromise solution was discussed last night by Embree’s subcommittee, Engstrom, freshman Union Board representative Jule Young, and Interfraternity Council President Gus Cochran. The college has agreed to make a $200 grant to renovate the building, Engstrom said, as well as to pay for maintenance. Other expenses, Engstrom said, will have to be footed by the group that runs it.

CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Show ID Cards
200 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda ShopDraft. He stated, however, that “thousands of young men getting bachelor’s degrees this year will be getting drafted next year,” and that the boys “who do not have to worry are those who are already in advanced ROTC.” Morse said that the draft call for next year would be between 2,000 and 3,000 and said that under the present procedure the oldest men eligible must be inducted first. Hight said that this would result in “a drop in enrollment in graduate school.” He also urged any student thinking about going to graduate school, but worried about the draft, to take the examinations required for application now. He felt that a higher score would be made than if they were taken at a later date. He reminded any such student that “even though he may be physically fit and acceptable for the draft now, he has no assurance that he will remain that way.” Hight felt that “in 1970 there will be a rush of students to get into graduate school.” He believes that the war will be over by 1970 and that the draft call will not be as high.

STAMP IT! IT’S THE RAGE

The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL POCKET RUBBER STAMP. 1/2” x 2”. Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed.

MOPP CO. P.O. Box 10623 Lenox Square ATLANTA, GA., 30326

SHERRILL’S JEWELERS MAIN STREET DAVIDSON

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone 332-2414

CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS!! Get your clothes cleaned for the PARTIES at home. We can have your shirt laundered too at JACKSON CLEANERS DEPOT ST. DAVIDSON

GRABEN SPEAKS TO PHYSICISTS

Dr. W. H. Graben of Clemson University discusses intermolecular forces of the electromagnetic type and their implications for chemical phenomena. Dr. Locke White of Davidson also displayed a three-dimensional photograph produced by a laser at the Monday night meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honorary society. (Photo by Steve Brown)

The Davidsonian December 8, 1967 Page Three

Decision Delayed On Chapel Cuts

Chaplain Scott Woodmansee’s proposal for fewer chapels and assemblies has not been considered yet by the Faculty Religious Policy Committee, due to the uncertainty about the 1967-68 academic calendar. Woodmansee said this week that it now appears that no action will be taken on the proposal until after the meeting of the Board of Trustees, Dec. 20. It would be impossible, according to Woodmansee, to consider the proposed changes without knowledge of the class schedule and calendar. The proposal under consideration would cut the number of periods allotted to chapels to two per week. The chaplain would be responsible for obtaining the speaker for one period, while the Student Council and other campus organizations could utilize the other assembly period. Woodmansee said although there would be no budget increases for the chapel programs, Davidson would be able to obtain better speakers, since there would be fewer speakers. Woodmansee cited another problem caused by the uncertainty about next year's calendar. He said that he has been unable to contact speakers because he cannot give them a definite time or date to speak.

Time Will Judge Position Of U. S. In Vietnam, Ex-Ambassador Says

“Only time will tell if the action of the U. S. is right or wrong by intervening in the affairs of Vietnam,” said Pham Khac Rau, former Vietnamese ambassador to the United States. Speaking in chapel Tuesday, Rau said, “We will welcome you if you are there to really help us achieve the desires of the Vietnamese people, which are to build a free, democratic regime and to improve the welfare of our nation.” In 1966, under the pressure of the U. S., the government organized elections, Rau said. It was a civilian government, but “at the head of the government were military officers, and all the important posts were held by the military,” he explained. “The elections were not really free—the opposition was not allowed to run,” Rau said. “If you want to negotiate, accept the National Liberation Front (NLF) as the other side,” he contended. “The Saigon government could be left out; it has no power to speak for the people.” He said that the current bombing was hurting the North, and that “if offered an honorable peace, then they would get out.” What should be done in Vietnam? Rau had two proposals: (1) Accept the Communists—there is no other alternative. (2) A representative government must be set up in Saigon. He said that there would not be an honorable peace until these conditions were met. At the coffee hour, Rau explained that the people are behind Ho, not the Communists. The North Vietnamese are not Communists; all they know is that they are being bombed every day by U. S. planes, so they fight. Only their leaders are Communists. He also said that the war has strengthened the pro-Chinese faction in the Hanoi government. In the South, the majority are for peace now, though the NLF does have genuine support of many people where they are in control. The U. S. wants the NLF to take a “back-seat”—this is unrealistic, Rau said. “The present Saigon government is so weak that if the NLF were accepted as the principal party on the other side the decision would be made by the U. S. and NLF,” Rau said. Nevertheless, Rau feels that an international guarantee would be needed.