Page Four - April 14, 1967

BOB REID Sports Editor

STRANGE FACES

By BOB STUBBS Sports Writer

North Carolina edged by Davidson 12-9 in golf Monday at the Charlotte Country Club. The loss evened the linksmen's record at 4-4. "The match with UNC was our year," said coach Tom Scott. "It was real close. We lost it on the ninth hole where all seven of our players lost strokes."

While most Davidson students are celebrating the closing weeks of school with their ritual called Spring Frolics, the basketball coaching staff will be entertaining several of its top recruiting prospects for next season's team. Seven high school seniors from throughout the South and East will be on campus this weekend, visiting the facilities and trying to meet as many faculty members and students as possible. The prospects will be rooming in freshman dorms and will attend some of the weekend's parties and concerts. Several students have been recruited to play host to the visitors, who, according to spokesmen for the athletic department, are among the top basketball prospects in the nation.

Leading the list of cage talent is Gilbert McGregor, a 6-7 center from Raeford, N.C., who plays for Hoke County High School. McGregor averaged more than 25 points a game last year, and is maintaining that average this season. Assistant coach Terry Holland noted that McGregor has maintained his impressive scoring average in a league dominated by tall players. "McGregor is the most outstanding prospect I've ever seen come out of North Carolina," said head coach Lefty Driesell. "In fact, as far as I'm concerned, he's one of the best in the country."

Driesell said McGregor has been contacted by every major school in the country including UCLA. "This boy," Driesell said, "is a fine rebounder and a great defensive player. He's a great pro prospect too. In fact, Red Auerbach (general manager of the Boston Celtics) has contacted him about a pro career in the future. He even encouraged him to come here for the academics and as training for the pros."

"If I had my pick of all the centers in the country, I'd take this boy." Back home in Raeford, McGregor is a top student and a respected leader. One of his teachers said McGregor's influence has done much to facilitate the successful integration of his high school. "This boy would be a credit to Davidson," Driesell said, "even if he didn't play basketball."

Another top prospect is Larry Keener, a 6-5 cager from Marietta, Ga. Last season Keener ran up 24 points and 25 rebounds a game, and this year he is slightly above that mark. Keener is also one of the finest baseball players in the state. His contacts from pro baseball scouts outnumber his cage offers. As a pitcher, he has hurled almost no-hitters in the school's only two games so far this season. Several scouts have advised Keener not to commit himself to a college basketball team until the next pro baseball drafts.

Also visiting the campus will be Van Oliver, a 6-7 athlete from Cincinnati, Ohio. Oliver is a center who could be used as a wing man, Holland said. And from the same high school will come Doug Paul, a guard with an 18-point-per-game average.

Other prospects include David Richardson, a 6-7 center from Stratford High School in Nashville, Tenn. He has been a starter ever since his sophomore year on what Holland described as one of the best high school teams in that state.

Also on campus will be James Brown from Newport News, Va. and Joe Jeffcoat of Plymouth, N.C. Brown averaged 21 points a game and Jeffcoat 23 points. NCAA regulations do not require players to commit themselves to a cage team before May 15. "We just want the boys to look over the school and see what we have to offer," Driesell said. "I'd sure appreciate any courtesy our students might show to these boys to help them feel welcome."

"These boys are really tops," added assistant coach Gale Catlett, "If we could land any three of these boys, we'd be on our way to national honors."

George Leight took medalist honors for the 'Cats with a 74. Tucker Laxton and Joe Jelks, who won his match on the eighteenth hole, both carded 75s. Bruce Vanderbloemen had a 77 and Phil Spann was 78. Stan Thompson of UNC was overall medalist with a 73.

It was the third loss in a row for Davidson. Last Friday they were beaten by Wake Forest, 16-6, at Winston-Salem. John Giles was low medalist for Davidson with a 73 and Cary Hite recorded a 74. Spann, Leight, and Vanderbloemen all toured the course in 76. Overall medalist was John Harris of Wake Forest with a 69.

Thursday Duke shot by the 'Cats at Durham, 14½-6½. Jelks' 74 was low enough to earn medalist honors, Spann had a 75 and Hite a 76. Trip O'Donald of Duke was overall medalist with a 71.

"The boys continue to improve," said Scott. "We lost 16½-4½ to UNC there. We are hampered by the fact that we have no real home course, where we can play every day."

"The home match with UNC at Charlotte Country Club will be our only one there. Our next two home matches will be at Pine Hollow in N.C., against N.C. State and Wake Forest. We also play State at Raleigh."

"We front real liver this year. We lost ten of our top scorers from last year's team, but Spann and Hite, who are both sophomores, are doing very well and taking up the slack."

"We play a schedule which includes mostly non-conference teams. The better competition offered by these teams will do us good when the Southern Conference Tournament rolls around."

"We are the early season favorite in the conference this year. William and Mary, East Carolina, and West Virginia are all pretty good and may cause us trouble."

"The Tournament will be at the Dunes Club in Myrtle Beach, S.C. where we did well in a four-way match in March. We shot four 74's, and if we can do this well or better we should win easily."

Jelks, who has played number one or two, is the leading overall scorer for the 'Cats with 14½ points. Leight, number four, has 13. Hite and Vanderbloemen, who both play in the number five position, have 12½ and 14 points, respectively. Spann, number three, has scored 11 and Giles, number two or one, has made 9 points. Laxton has 3 and Walter Daniel 1½.

The first match with N.C. State will be Thursday. Wake Forest will play here May 2 and the second match with State here on May 5 will end the regular season. The Southern Conference Tournament will be played May 8, 9, 10.

BASS BOUNDS OVER BAR

DEFENDING CONFERENCE CHAMPS ON THE ATTACK

Hatcher (L) And Parrott Square Off Against Doubles Foes

USC, PC Trounce Netters

By DANNY WHITE Assistant Sports Editor

Coach Harry Fogleman's varsity netters, playing the toughest part of their schedule, were beaten twice in this week's action. The 'Cat netmen dropped their match to South Carolina last Tuesday, 8-1, in Columbia. Dave Jennings beat Ned Burke, 1-6, 6-2, 6-3, for Davidson's only sweep. Edmond Phelps fell to Bob Held, 6-4, 6-0. Sam Hatcher lost to Jay Schlosser 6-4, 6-4, 6-2, and Dan Herron was beaten by Larry Bohman, 6-4, 6-0. Stuart Reynolds crushed Peter Parrott, 6-1, 6-1. Harry Eagle beat Geordie Mueller, 6-0, 6-2, in the last singles match. Davidson lost all three doubles matches in straight sets.

"South Carolina has a real tough team," said Fogleman, "All six of their players are on scholarships."

On His Way To Breaking Record

Frank Bass finished second in the high jump Saturday to tie the school record set by Kurt Fraser in 1962. Bass, a junior from Nashville, unofficially tied the school high jump record in his street clothes during the EMAC track competition. He is expected to break the high jump record by the end of the season, head coach Heath Whittle said.

Overall, the 'Cat thinclads garnered nine points to finish tenth in a field of 14 schools. East Tennessee, the pre-meet favorite, won the meet with 56 points.

Basemen Tumble To VMI

The 'Cat basemen continued their conference schedule on the diamond against VMI's Keydets at Lexington this past weekend and dropped both ends of the doubleheader. Again, lack of manpower was the key factor in the 'Cats' land list of troubles, coach Tom Stevens said.

The first game saw starter Gene Bennett tagged hard in the first inning. He was relieved after two were out. Charlie Elliott came on and finished the game. Mental errors, as well as physical ones, figured in this 10-0 loss to Keydet right-hander Peter Sennadaugh, as he handcuffed the 'Cats on one hit, a first-inning single by left fielder Claude Owen.

The second game started out in much the same fashion as the first. Owen started the game on theHill for the ‘Cats and was relieved by Mackey Reavis. Reavis, though pitching with an elbow still in pain from an inflamed lining of the joint, pitched for four innings before Stevens sent in Bennett to finish up. The final score was 12-2 with Owen suffering the loss. In both games, the Keydets got six runs in the first inning, and as Stevens said, “It’s hard to start six runs down and play well enough to win, though it can be done.” In this game, the ‘Cats came alive briefly for five hits, two by Dick Lindsey, and one each by Bennett, Reavis, and Smith, each with one RBI. Lefthander Bub Hinkel got the victory for VMI.

Tuesday saw Davidson’s ‘Cats come alive at Belmont Abbey, but the pitching was not up to par and the defense was too shaky for the 'Cats to pull out a victory. Buddy Durham started the game and was victimized by what Stevens termed “mighty sorry umpiring” on two or three occasions in the first inning. He pitched a total of five innings before Elliott was called on to finish the game. The final score was 7-1, Crusaders. The game was filled with flying spikes and mean hits by the ‘Cats. Skip Waite was the victim of Al Whitlock, the Crusaders’ center fielder, on a steal of second base. Whitlock was out. Later, Waite was caught off second on a long double as John Lawing put his hand in the path of Waite’s feet at the base. The resulting cut required several stitches for Lawing, who had contributed a home run to the Abbey attack. Davidson mounted a twelve-hit attack with Brown going three for three and driving in two runs. Waite and Logan had two hits apiece, while Frank Murphy, Gowan, Reavis, Lindsey, and Secrest each had one. But righthander Dick Gates held the Pipe Smoker at the right time and the hits never seemed to come when needed. “But I’m glad we went,” he said.

Bass Ties School Record In News-Piedmont Races

Davidson edged out North Carolina College, 81-80, for the top spot on the scorecards. Johnson C. Smith tallied 46 points and Furman grabbed 41 to finish third and fourth respectively.

“STRONGEST FIELD”

“That was the strongest field I’ve ever seen at those relays,” said Whittle. “The competition was very keen and the boys participating were very talented,” he said. “It was good experience for the boys. And it was also a very well-managed meet.” Kerry Keith threw the javelin 169.3 feet to finish third in that event. Bill Bryan tossed the discus 123.7 feet to earn fourth place honors. Davidson failed to place in any other events, Whittle said.

COMPETITION TOUGH

Whittle explained that the thinclads’ poor showing in running events was due largely to the high degree of talent among the competition. “We usually do well in the relays,” he said, “but this year with East Tennessee and several colored teams in the meet, we didn’t stand much of a chance. The competition was really tough this time,” he said. Other teams represented at the meet included Georgia State, Tennessee Tech, DeKalb, Mars Hill, Gardner Webb, High Point, Carson Newman, Emory, Pembroke, and Tennessee A and I.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

CHARCOAL HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Scholarship. Their first five players are sophomores and the sixth man is a junior. Some of our players aren’t playing up to their potential right now.”

In the first game of their South Carolina tour on Monday, the netters edged The Citadel, 5-4, before 400 noisy Cadets. “We not only had to beat the players, but we had to beat the Cadets and the bugs,” said Fogleman. “It was the same story at Charleston and at Columbia. They give scholarships and we don’t. We have a hard time competing with subsidized athletes.” Tee Hooper of The Citadel beat Phelps, 7-5, 6-2. Hatcher lost to Randy Hoffman, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4. Hearon was beaten, 6-2, 5-9, 6-4, by Bill Shields. Peter Parrott, Geordie Mueller, and Dave Jennings all won singles matches in straight sets for Davidson. Phelps-Hearon and Mueller-Jennings won doubles matches while Hatcher-Parrott lost.

“The Citadel score indicates how tough it will be for us to win the conference championship this year,” said Fogleman. “I didn’t think Citadel would be that tough. I think it will be The Citadel, George Washington, and us fighting for the championship. I am sure we can win but it will be close.”

Last Saturday, the netters hosted Presbyterian at the Davidson courts but were defeated, 6-3. Jennings won the only singles match for Davidson. The other ‘Cat points came from Phelps-Hearon and Mueller-Jennings in the doubles. Hearon was forced to default his match because of unsportsmanlike conduct. “A couple of our boys are not playing up to their potential,” continued Fogleman. “One of them is Hatcher. Right now he is not playing as well as he played last year; he’s just in a slump. I’m sure he will come around because he’s working very hard.”

“Phelps and Hearon are playing excellently now. They were tremendous at The Citadel. Also, Jennings and Mueller are doing excellent now. They have been our strength in several matches, especially against Presbyterian.”

“I am real pleased with our progress now. I think we can win 20 matches, but we can’t have any rained out and can only lose one more.” The netmen host Clemson tomorrow as one of the attractions of Spring Frolics. Clemson beat South Carolina who this week beat Davidson, 8-1. After a match with Wake Forest on the 10th, the netters will travel to Lexington, Va., for matches with Virginia Military Institute, West Virginia, and Richmond on successive days beginning on the 20th. The Southern Conference tournament will be May 8-10 at Furman University in Greenville, S.C.

The frosh netters host Woodberry Forest tomorrow in their second match of the season. They lost to Shelby High, 8-1, in the first match. Members of the freshman team are Ken Crows, Dave Fisher, Gene Linton, Bill Horton, and William Brown.

Pirates Garner 12 Firsts To Overwhelm Thinclads

East Carolina’s Pirates stole 12 first places and a flock of seconds and thirds to sweep the Cat thinclads off the track, 101-44, Tuesday on the winner's home ground. Randy Randolph threw the shot 43 feet and the discus 124.6 feet while Barry St. Clair won the 880 and Kerry Keith the javelin for Davidson’s only individual firsts. Davidson’s mile relay team won with a time of 3:36.9 for the only other first. Randolph paced the Wildcats with 10 individual points. Results of the ECC meet:

Broad Jump: 1. Whyte (ECC) 2. Cox (D) 3. Williams (ECC). 22-24 feet.
Shot put: 1. Randolph (D) 2. Coble (ECC) 3. Dalton (ECC). 43 feet.
440 Relay: East Carolina 43.4 seconds.
Mile Run: 1. Hudson (ECC) 2. Johnson (ECC) 3. Phillips (D) 4.38 minutes.
120-Yard Hurdles: 1. Cargill (ECC) 2. Wooten (ECC) 3. Murray (ECC). 16.3 seconds.
440: 1. Whitfield (ECC) 2. Monts (D) 3. Davis (D) 51.7 seconds.
High Jump: 1. Moe (ECC) 2. Orsborn (D) 3. Whyte (ECC) 6.25 feet.
100-yard Dash: 1. Cothren (ECC) 2. Williams (ECC) 3. Cox (D). 10.2 seconds.
880: 1. St. Clair (D) 2. Johnson (ECC) 3. Conley (ECC). 1:59.5 minutes.
440 High Hurdles: 1. Johnson (ECC) 2. Wooten (ECC) 3. Deeds (ECC). 69.4 seconds.
Triple Jump: 1. Moe (ECC) 2. Williams (ECC) 3. Cox (D). 43-4.5 feet.
220 Dash: 1. Cothren (ECC) 2. Williams (ECC) 3. McKellar (D) 22.9 seconds.
Pole Vault: 1. Murray (ECC) 2. Rynearson (ECC) 3. Blackstone (D). 12.5 feet.
Discus: 1. Randolph (D) 2. Fagg (D) 3. Bryan (D). 124.6 feet.
Two Mile Run: 1. Taylor (ECC) 2. Martin (ECC) 3. Orsborn (ECC), 10.25.1 minutes.
Mile Relay: Davidson. 3:36.9 minutes.
Javelin: 1. Keith (D) 2. Johnson (ECC) 3. Coble (ECC). 163.1 feet.

Find out if you're man enough for the Peace Corps. Even if your name is Mary.

The Peace Corps, Washington, D.C., 20525

Name
Address
City
State
Zip Code

Please send me information
Please send me an application

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday