TOM COOK
SPORTS EDITOR
The Point

THE LAST WORD

AFTER SCROUNGING through the bowels of Johnston Gym for the past year, it is with mixed emotions that this column
realizes it has run for the last time.

And while the year now ending has seen many varied events, the biggest topic of the year reached a passionate
peak Tuesday night as Homer Smith and Lefty Driesell took on and put down all comers in a forum which
should have been held many months ago. Fielding questions like Bobby Richardson fielded grounders, Lefty showed his tremendous speaking ability
mixing corn pone with figures while straight-man Smith quietly showed that he is the toughest obstacle foes of subsidized athletics
will face as long as he is here.

WHEN CONSIDERING the question one should consider the possible outcomes of proposed changes. Assume Davidson freezes the value of all
expenses and the question comes down to a question of whether athletic scholarships can be covered by gate receipts above
those normally attending a game no matter what the caliber of the competition may be. Even if one subtracts an
arbitrary part of scholarship money which athletes would receive if they matriculated here, it is doubtful if gate receipts can
ever make subsidized athletics a profit-making venture.

AND SO THE QUESTION: Is the money spent bringing in students who probably would not have come here worth the
extra money spent on athletics? Consider the publicity and recruiting which the Athletic Department has contributed to the college’s attempts
to attract the best students here. We all think that one of the letters to a prospect speaks only of
the Top 10 teams or of beautiful Richardson Field, but that is all wrong. Those of us who have seen
correspondence from Homer Smith to high school prospects can attest to its effectiveness. With an admissions office which is so
thin that you can count the representatives on your thumbs, any organized plan spreading the gospel has to be a
major contribution. Therefore Davidson football and basketball have contributed to the college through actions which are not dependent on fancy
similes and a publicist. If Davidson ever needed envoys, it needs them now and students and coaches are filling the
void.

As for the students brought here by athletic scholarships, they cannot be lumped into a category of guys who have
2.7 averages and are All-American boys. Each of them may be a student paid on the basis other than academic
promise, but they take the courses you take and live with you, giving you an insight into an area of
experiences which would never be available to Davidson students. Therefore one can say that Davidson athletics contribute to the intellectual
atmosphere of the college community because they widen the knowledge of many students, not just athletes.

THE STUDENTS on athletic grants do not stand out as professional athletes. They are students just like us, only a
lot more coordinated. And then there are the players who come here after being recruited by the coaches but with
no aid promised. How anyone can infer that the recognition which Homer Smith and Lefty Driesell have presented has been
harmful, except on the latter’s television show recently, is difficult to understand. Advertisers always rely on more than one media
and in the same sense, Davidson relies on different means to achieve the same purpose: make the college attractive to
high school students who show promise in academic fields. It may not be morally right to give a full scholarship
to a student because he is a good football player, but there are other situations which do more harm than
good to the college. Football and basketball grants-in-aid are not among them. They have contributed to the overall growth and
prestige of the college and are thus important parts of the college’s program. The discussions may die down for a
while but they will flame again. But this fact remains clear: at the moment, the trustee policy of providing grants-in-aid
for athletes who qualify as students is tailored to fit the needs of the college and until a feasible alternative
presents itself, this is the best system for the college.

HOMER replied to a question Tuesday night with a statement that Davidson is unique in its attempts to combine an
excellent liberal arts education with a progressive program of athletics. One does not have to be like .... Being unique
is a challenge to Davidson College. Let us hope it will continue to accept the challenge.

Sailors Swamp Yacht Club, 3-1
By CHIP ROBERTSON
Sports

Defending the Lake Norman Warm-Up Cup, they captured from Lake Norman Yacht Club last year, Davidson's sailors went to local
Lake Norman Yacht Club last Saturday for the second annual Warm-Up Regatta and defeated the clubbers, 3-1. It was cold
and the winds were light, but the Wildcats were hot, as they showed immediately by taking a dominant position at
the start and maintaining it all the way through the first race. It was only by a lucky wind shift
on the last leg that a LNYC boat was able to challenge Davidson's two front-running boats and slip into second
place at the finish. Davidson's Chip Robertson and Chip Bellamy took first place, followed by LNYC’s Jack McNeary, Tom Kirtley
of Davidson and Tad Lowdermilk; LNYC’s Bob Orr (a 1965 graduate of the Davidson team, sailing against for the first
time); Ben Reeves and Bob Albee, both of Davidson; and LNYC’s Jim Owens.

The second race featured another radical wind shift on the first weather leg which LNYC, with their greater local experience,
played correctly. When one Davidson boat fouled out at the weather mark, LNYC marched to an easy 1-2-4 win. The
‘Cats had dominated the start, all three Davidson boats crossing ahead of the Lake Norman Yacht Club fleet. But all
the Davidson boats missed the right tack for the wind shift.

After the mid-day break Davidson bounced back from the problems of the second race. Once again Davidson got the best
start, and the ‘Cats controlled throughout this race. Kirtley took first for the ‘Cats and only a foul by a
LNYC boat prevented Robertson from taking the second place. Davidson won easily by a 7½ to 14 margin on the
low point scoring system.

In the fourth race Jim Lee and Bob Murphy replaced Reeves and Albee for Davidson. There were three protests registered
during the race, but when the hearings by the race committee were over only one was upheld. A Yacht Club
boat was disqualified, giving Davidson the winning margin 11 to 13½. Davidson has its next home regatta on April 22
at the Lake Campus. Other teams competing in the regatta will be The Citadel, The College of Charleston, and William
and Mary.

Diamondmen Drop
The Davidsonian
March 23, 1967
Page Three

GENE BENNETT POISES FOR MOUND DELIVERY
While Cavaliers Knock Off ‘Cats, 8-3
By CHARLIE ELLIOTT
Sports Writer

The Wildcat diamondmen closed out their exhibition schedule Saturday with a 16 errors accounted for most of the Pfeiffer runs.

FIVE-GAME SCHEDULE
Netmen Face Tough Slate In Spring Vacation Tour
By DANNY WHITE
Sports Writer

Coach Harry Fogleman’s racketeers will take to the sunny South during spring break to meet Florida Southern, Rollins, Jacksonville, Hope,
and Emory. “This will be the fourth year we've taken this trip,” said Fogleman. “We always enjoy it. The team
will leave Saturday after the Purdue match.”

FOR RETURN
Fuzzballers Look Toward Big Net Year
Cox Paces ’Cat Thinclads
They will meet Florida Southern on March 27 at Lakeland, Fla. “Florida Southern has a real good team,” said team
captain Peter Parrott, “but not quite as good as the rest of our competition in Florida.” After Florida Southern the
‘Cats will move on to Winter Park, Fla. for a three-day stand. They meet Rollins on March 28, followed by
Jacksonville the next day and Hope College on the 30th. “Rollins has a great tennis team,” said Fogleman. “We have
never beaten them and we would really like to make this the first time. They are definitely the best team
that we'll play this year.” Jacksonville and Hope College are rated as good teams by Fogleman, but “we still think
we should beat them without too much trouble,” he said. The team will move on to Atlanta to face Emory
on April 1. “Emory has a fine team and they are probably the second best team that we'll face during
our trip,” said Esmond Phelps. “The Florida teams are always farther along in their tennis at this point than we
are. They start much earlier than we do so the matches ought to be very interesting.” Rollins and most of
the other teams in Florida are two-thirds over Terriers, High Point Davidson's varsity cindermen, led by sophomore Greg Cox, scored
a double victory over Wofford College and High Point College here last Saturday. The ‘Cats scored 70 points to 68
for High Point and 43 for Wofford. CoxScored 2034 points before suffering a clean shoulder separation while running the 330-yard
intermediate hurdles. The school record of 25 points for a single meet is held by Heath Whittle and was set
in 1929 against Wake Forest.

Clubmen Fall To UNC For Year’s First Loss

The Wildcat clubmen suffered their first defeat of the season Monday, 16½-4½, at the hands of UNC on the winners’
course. “Everyone did pretty well considering the conditions,” said Coach Tom Scott. A stiff breeze and 40-degree weather hampered the
match as the ’Cats faced a strong Carolina team competing on their practice course.

Mike Spann warmed things up with a scorching one under par 71 to register the only individual victory, 3-0, over
David Robinson. Spann’s round earned him a three-way tie with Steve Robbins and David Owens of Carolina for match medalist
honors. Johnny Giles, Bruce Vanderbloemen, and George Leight completed the scoring. It was the ’Cats' first loss against three victories.
The team will leave Saturday for a week of links competition at the Cape Coral Holiday Tournament in Cape Coral,
Fla.

“The competition will be keen,” said Scott. “It’s nearly comparable to the NCAA tournament.” Twenty schools, including Duke, Princeton, Purdue,
and LSU, will vie for positions. Although shooting for an upper half standing, Scott pointed out that the ’Cats’ main
objective in the tournament is to gain experience. “It will be good spring training,” he said. “The tournament will help
everyone get his game sharpened up.”

Team captain Joe Jelks, who played at Cape Coral last year, described the Cape Coral greens and fairways as “a
real fine course,” but added that a gusty morning wind would probably be a big factor.

“I believe Cox can easily break this record,” Whittle said. “He has six events that he can do well. When
he separated his shoulder, he was winning the hurdles and would probably have finished first. He had taken only one
of his jumps in the triple jump and has bettered the winning mark in practices. We are confident that he
will be able to return before the next dual meet.”

Bill Randolph won the shot put with a throw of 43' 8", and Roane Cross finished third. Bill Bryan took
first place in the discus with a 132' 11" throw. Cox finished first in the broad jump with a 22'
6" effort, second in the high jump, and third in the triple jump. In other field events, Kerry Keith finished
third in the javelin, and Bill Blackstone took fourth in the pole vault. Cox won the 100-yard dash with a
time of 10.2 seconds. Tom Caldwell finished third in both the 100 and 220-yard dashes.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub

’Cat tracksters Mike Moates and Bill Davis took second and third respectively in the 440-yard dash, while Barry St. Clair
added a first place in the 880-yard run with a time of 2:00.6. In distance races, Randy Phillips finished second
in the two-mile run and third in the mile run. Colin Hudson took fourth place in the two-mile run. Rounding
out the track events, George Rogister claimed fourth place in the high hurdles.

MUELLER PARROTT

“All the way through their schedule,” commented Fogleman. “All the teams we will face will be in much better shape
than us. Our main objective in taking this trip besides the tour of Florida is to get the boys in
condition for the conference matches after the break.”

Fogleman will take the same lineup that has started the first two matches. Phelps will start in the top slot
followed by Hatcher in the second position. Dan Hearon will continue in the third position followed by Parrott, Geordie Mueller,
and Dave Jennings. Hatcher and Parrott, Phelps and Hearon, and Mueller and Jennings are the combinations for the doubles matches.

Fogleman Scores On Grade

Davidson's netmen seem to be more on the ball in the classroom than on the tennis court after first semester
grade reports. For the first semester, Coach Harry Fogleman's defending Southern Conference netters aced the books and chalked up a
2.18 scholastic average. Academic starters include Al Varner (2.81), Dale Vash (2.72), Pinky Hatcher (2.67), Bruce Weidner (2.37), Frank Bass
(2.16), Esmond Phelps (2.10), and Dave Jennings (2.00).

“I'm very proud of this record,” beamed Fogleman. “It's a good feeling to know your ’Cat players aren't about to
flunk out of school.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY

Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS

La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Gurley’s ESSO
Main and South Streets
Phone 892-9304

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND AND PLAY TIGERINO FOR CASH!

Mackey Reavis started on the mound for the ’Cats and was followed by Charlie Elliott and Buddy Durham. Hank Strickland
provided two doubles to the fence for the ’Cats’ cause, while Jack Smith and Dick Lindsey turned in some fine
defensive plays. The ’Cats opened their regular schedule Monday against the Virginia Cavaliers. Each team had the lead once and
the score was tied twice before the Cavs broke loose in the seventh inning for big runs and an 8-3
victory. Gene Bennett started on the hill for Davidson. Durham finished the final two innings. Ray Logan had two hits
for the ’Cats, as did shortstop Stew Brown. The two teams had another game scheduled for Tuesday, but the rain
caused a cancellation. This gave the ’Cats’ mound staff a rest for the doubleheader here Friday against West Virginia in
the Conference opener for both teams.

Sunday afternoon the team begins a five-day tour through Georgia and South Carolina. The first stop will be at Statesboro
on Monday and Tuesday for games with Georgia Southern's Eagles. The Eagles are always tough at home, and with their
returning lettermen from last year, this year should be no different. On Wednesday and Thursday, the ’Cats move over to
Atlanta to play the Yellowjackets from Georgia Tech. As is the case with Georgia Southern, subsidized baseball makes for tough
competition. Tech is solid in nearly every position, and by this stage, the slim ranks of ’Cat pitchers may wear
thin. The team closes out the spring trip with Clemson there on Friday. The Tigers are rated one of the
finest teams in the ACC and have quite a few men back from last year’s squad which had one of
the highest team batting averages in the South.

When the ’Cats return home to the friendly confines of Davidson's new field, they face a doubleheader with William and
Mary on Tuesday, April 4.

This week, the freshmen, under the mentorship of Coach Paul ‘Sarge’ Poteat, opened their season Monday with a 3-3 tie
to Lincolnton High School there. Wednesday the two teams met at Davidson with the High Schoolers winning 4-2 on three
unearned runs. Gordon Slade chipped in three of the ‘Kittens’ five hits, with Mike Kelly and Terry Millar getting one
apiece. The frosh have a lot of talent on the field for them, Poteat said, and promise to have a
good year for the Sarge. Their next game will be on April 3 with Garinger.

Fuzzballers Fail To Score Wins

The Wildcat netmen opened their 1967 season with a thud this week against Northwestern and Dartmouth. On Tuesday, Coach Harry
Fogleman’s chargers opened with Northwestern and were down, 4-2, at the end of the six singles matches. It was mutually
agreed to by the teams to play the doubles matches on Wednesday. However, because of the Dartmouth match, the doubles
matches were never completed. The match will be recorded as incomplete. Victories in the Northwestern match were scored by team
captain Peter Parrott and Geordie Mueller in singles matches. Esmond Phelps, Pinky Hatcher, Hearon, and Dave Jennings all dropped their
matches.

On Wednesday, the ’Cats faced Ivy League foe Dartmouth and were edged by one point, 5-4. Hatcher, Mueller, and Jennings
won singles matches while Hearon, Parrott, and Phelps lost. Phelps and Hearon combined for Davidson's only doubles victory. The match
was tied, 3-3, after the singles matches, and the ’Cats collapse in the doubles competition led to their defeat.

“We didn't feel too bad about losing to two teams as strong as Northwestern and Dartmouth,” said Davidson Coach Harry
Fogleman. “Both of these teams will be at the top of their conference at the end of the season.” Fogleman
continued, “Next to Rollins, Northwestern is the strongest team we’ll face this year. I can't say too much about Dartmouth
except to say look at the score. They'll be one of the best in the Ivy League.”

Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas

THE ELK'S RESTAURANT

The Most Enjoyable Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.

A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.

Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course

THE ELK’S

Now Operated Under New Management
