By DANNY WHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

Expansion, growth, and change are the key words associated with Davidson's ‘new action’ IMAC for 1967-68.

“The purpose of the IMAC is to allow each student an outlet for participation in a sport,” said track coach
Sterling Martin, adviser to the IMAC, in explaining proposed expansion.

JACK SHERRILL FACES TAU PITCHER
Softball Competition Rolls Into Closing Weeks
Growth, Change Spur IMAC

“We have the faculty’s support because they realize that the intramural program is the only outlet for competition for about
65 percent of this student body. They definitely want to see our program grow,” explained Martin.

Probably the biggest change scheduled for next year is a proposed intramural handbook which will contain schedules of the events,
the constitution of the league, rules, and an explanation of the program for freshmen. Martin calls it an “on purpose”
book.

“We want to give the impression that our program has a purpose and is headed in a definite direction,” said
Martin.

Also, the Council plans to create a publicity office to communicate information to the student body. “This was our biggest
problem this year—lack of communication,” said newly elected president Doug Rhymes. “We hope the handbook and some publicity can make
our program look more organized.”

More sports stressing individual competition are scheduled for next year. Fencing, badminton, decathlon, karate, bicycle racing, bowling, and water polo
are the sports now being considered as possibilities for next year.

The biggest factor in the Council’s proposed growth will be an enlarged budget. After working within a 600 dollar limit
this year, the Council has requested a budget of 4,000 dollars for next year.

“We have got to have more money if we want to build this program to what it should be,” explained
Martin.

“The biggest problem now is the ideology behind the program,” continued Sherrill. “We want this program for those who are
not participating on a varsity sport team.” Sherrill favors eliminating all athletes from all IMAC competition while they are participating
in a varsity sport.

Martin and Rhymes pointed also to the clarification of the eligibility requirement as the biggest headache facing the Council. Some
clear-cut rule is needed, Martin said.

“The school needs to decide what it wants out of the program,” related Martin. “Personally, I favor the program being
designed specifically for the non-varsity athletes.”

While Martin and Rhymes favor an expansion of the program to more sports, Sherrill feels the Council embraces enough activity
now.

“I cannot see that expansion to more individual sports will help,” he said. “There is enough for anyone now in
the fraternity houses and in the Union with ping pong and pool. I am sure that the bicycle racing will
be good, and I believe that a golf tournament should be held both in the fall and spring. Other than
that, I think there is enough to do now.”

Sherrill said he thought better coordination of activities was the Council’s chief accomplishment this year.

“Everything ran smoothly this year,” he said, “mainly because of the interested representatives. Also, Sterling was the first representative of
the Athletic Department to serve on the Council. The coaches helped us out quite a lot, especially Coach Charles Parker
and Coach Tom Stevens.”

Martin pointed to the hard work and leadership of Sherrill as a chief reason for this year's success. “He got
the program off the ground and led it all year.”

Martin, Rhymes, and Sherrill all pointed to the freshman league as the area in need of the most improvement. The
same separate league status will be followed next year. Martin said he hoped the proposed handbook would better relate the
program to the freshmen.

“Our biggest problem was the lack of interest among the frosh representatives,” said Martin. “Also, this was the first year
that the frosh stayed together for a whole year and we were not organized enough to cope with the new
problems. We'll be greatly improved next year.”

“There is a great need for improvement in our overall program, and we've made a start in the right direction.
We want to expand slowly enough so that we won't spread ourselves too thin,” Martin concluded.

The Phi Gams held on to their undefeated record this week to remain on top of the IMAC softball charts.
With a perfect 9-0 record, the Fijis are leading the standings, followed by the Phi Delts at 8-1 and the
Pikas in second.

The powerful Gams knocked off the Sig Eps, 29-2, and the Independents, 26-8, last week, in their drive for the
season crown. Second place Delts defeated the Sig Eps, 9-0, and followed this with a 26-8 wipeout of the winless
Independents.

The Phis continued their winning streak with an 18-6 cooling of the SAE’s Tuesday. The E’s explanation was that they
used up all their power the day before when they wiped out everybody's favorite opponent, the Independents, 17-2.

Pika softballers won four games this week and advanced to a second place tie with the Delts. They defeated the
Sigma Chi's, 3-1, and the Sigma Nu’s, 10-7. Monday the Pikas rolled over the Sig Eps, 11-4, to notch the
tie. Their biggest margin of victory came against the Independents Wednesday. The score was 22-3.

Coach Tom Cook summed up the Pikas’ secret of success as the efforts of Tom “Kind Word” Kastner, who took
to the field in the bottom of the seventh and put down a sudden Indie surge.

The Kappa Sigs surged to fourth place after a three-game winning streak this week. After thrashing the Nu’s, 21-0, and
squeaking by the Sig Eps, they smashed the Independents, 13-4, Friday.

The Pi Kapps climbed out of the depths of the cellar this week and squeezed into an eighth place tie
with the Nu’s and the E’s. The Pi Kapps romped over three teams and lost to only two this week
as they finally developed a winning combination. After losing to the Betas, 11-2, the Pi Kapps overcame their season-long hard
luck and whipped the ATO’s, 7-6, for their first win of the season. Jimmy Robinson slammed in five Pi Kapp
runs on three hits, including a three-run homer.

The Pi Kapps then took on the Sigma Chi's, tying them 4-4 after six innings. But the Machis managed to
pull out three runs in the final inning and win, 7-9. Monday the Pi Kapps took the field against the
Nu's and rolled up a 12-0 lead by the sixth. Then the Nu's caught on to Pi Kapp moundsman Charlie
Taylor, who had pitched a no-hitter for six innings. The Nu's exploded for eight runs, but bogged down again and
fell, 12-8. Wednesday Pi Kapps crushed the Sig Eps, 12-1.

After a nip and tuck battle with the Betas, the KA’s emerged the winners with a 6-5 score. The KA's
then romped over the Taus, 6-3, Monday, but fell to the Machis, 10-7, the next day. An anonymous source attributed
the KA success to the efforts of John ‘Vicious’ Frick, who has terrorized base runners with his lightning peg throughout
the season.

In other games, the Taus defeated the Machis, 10-6, but eked past the Betas, 6-5. Rick Moore's bases-loaded single put
the Taus in front. The Betas, however, staged a rally in the seventh. With three runs in and two men
out, Tau shortstop Cecil Clifton snagged an infield pop-up for the final out and a Tau victory.

IMAC volleyball action began late this week in a double elimination tournament. Tennis will begin next week.Opponent For ’Kitten Fuzzballers

The Wildkitten tennis team, with only one match remaining, has almost completed a rugged spring schedule. The netters’ only victory
came against Belmont Abbey. Last Friday, the netmen were upset by the same Belmont Abbey squad, 7-2, at Belmont. Bill
Horton, playing his best match of the year, crushed his opponent, 6-0, 6-2. William Brown got Davidson's other point with
a straight-set victory.

Previously in the week, the ‘Kittens met Page High School of Greensboro, Central 4-A champions of last year, and were
defeated, 8-0. The match was actually closer than the final score indicates. Bob Johnson and Horton narrowly lost three-set matches.

On April 22, the frosh defeated Belmont Abbey, 5-4, for the season’s first and only victory. Horton, Brown, Ken Crews,
Gene Linton, and McCrea Ewart all added victories. The match was not decided until the doubles team of Linton and
Ewart won 6-4, 5-7, 7-5.

On Saturday afternoon of Spring Frolics, the frosh proved sluggish and were crushed, 9-0, by Woodbury Forest. In review of
the season, Coach Frank Spence pointed to the loss of Randy Jones as one of the main reasons for the
squad's lack of depth, which is the biggest weakness of this year's team.

“Several matches this year were extremely close and the teams we faced with more experience won,” said Spence. Spence pointed
to the Shelby and Belmont Abbey matches as examples of Davidson's “lack of overall depth and individual experience.”

“We were very close to victory in both of those matches," said Spence, “but we could not quite pull them
out.” Spence also felt that perhaps this year’s team was not quite as strong as frosh teams in recent years,
but he said that there are still several players on the team who will help the varsity next year. He
singled out Horton and Jones as men with “potential who should not fail to prove valuable varsity competitors.”

The frosh close their season with a match against the powerful Duke frosh at Durham next week.

Jennings Stars For Netters

BY DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

David Jennings, playing consistently strong tennis, has played a large role in the success of the Davidson netmen this season.
Through his first 15 matches, Jennings has compiled a fine 14-1 mark, contributing greatly to the 14-4 overall record for
the varsity team. In two of Davidson's losses this year, Jennings was the only player to win his singles matches.
These victories came in matches against South Carolina and Clemson.

Throughout the season, he has maintained his undefeated record in Southern Conference competition. He has also combined with Geordie Mueller
to achieve an undefeated conference mark in doubles competition. He and Mueller are 9-3 for the season through the first
18 matches the team has played.

Nickerson Proves Appearances Err

BY JOHN MACK
Sports Writer

The last place you would expect to see Clark Nickerson is on a pitcher's mound. “He just doesn't look like
a pitcher,” said Sergeant Paul Poteat, the freshman coach. “He is not very tall, and is sort of skinny.”

But nobody seems to have told Nickerson what pitchers are supposed to look like. And so, even though he had
never pitched in organized baseball before, he reported when the first meeting for the freshman team was called. At the
end of the season, he claimed a perfect 3-0 record.

“To tell the truth, at first I was a little scared to put him in,” said Poteat. “He had no
real fastball, and only a little curve.”

“So I started our other pitchers, John Riggs, Cliff Patterson, and Gordon Slade, in the early games. He came to
me after the game, a little disheartened at not having been allowed to play. I told him that he would
start the next game. After all, we had walked 18 men that day, and he couldn't do any worse. Well,
the game was here against Belmont Abbey, and I'll be doggoned if he didn't win it for us.”

“I really don’t know how he does it. He has a natural wind-up; I did not mess with that. Mike
Kelly, our catcher, was always teasing Nick about not throwing harder, but I don’t know. One of the umpires told
me after a game that his speed is deceptive and keeps batters off balance. And you know that a left-hander
just naturally has a screwball.”

“With an overall of 5-2, you can see how important those three wins were. I am sure Nick will help
the varsity next year. He is still working out with them since the freshman season is finished. If he can
put on a bit of weight and play ball this summer, he ought to be much improved next year.”

ATTENTION, MEN
Your MAN-Sized Decision: WHAT ABOUT THE DRAFT?
To discuss Alternatives to 1-A Status
Contact: Charlotte Friends Meeting (Quaker)
2039 Vail Ave., 333-3979
Saturdays from Noon ‘til 4 p.m.

“David has improved quite a bit over last year,” said tennis coach Harry Fogleman. “This season he has been serving
much better and hitting the ball harder. He is developing into a pretty fair tennis player.”

Jennings plays singles in the number six slot. His strength provides Davidson with a well-rounded team, giving them the balance
often needed to win tennis matches. “A well-balanced team will win many matches a season on the strength of their
number four, five, and six men.” Jennings, a junior, has been playing tennis for the last eight years. During his
years at Davidson, he has compiled a record as a fine student.

“I have been very happy with the depth that Jennings’ ability has given us this year,” Fogleman added. The record
of Jennings and Mueller in doubles also attests to the fact that strength in the lower-seeded positions is vital to
a successful tennis season. Jennings and Mueller play number three doubles.

Teammate Pinky Hatcher pointed out that nearly all Davidson’s tennis success has come from depth. “It is always the victories
at the bottom that provide the winning margin. This year, with David's contributions, the winning punch at the bottom has
been as strong as ever.”

Jennings remembered some difficulty with doubles early in the season. “We had a little trouble with our doubles game for
a while. Now it seems to be coming along much better. We plan to win the conference tournament again this
year.”

Active on campus, Jennings is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and president of the Social Council. He is from
Greenville, S. C.

...then don't miss this opportunity to get more than ever for your money!

GRAND OPENING CELEBRATION
OPENING DATE MAY 13
Vend-A-Wash
COIN-OPERATED - SELF-SERVICE CAR WASH
MINUTES FOR ONLY
FREE GIFTS AND REFRESHMENTS
Excellent for boats, trailers, motors, lawn furniture, cocky pledges, and anything portable and dirty.
S. MAIN DAVIDSON, N. C.
