Che Davidsanian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1967

On Breaking Tradition

In holding its annual banquet Monday night, the College Union will be retaining at least one of the traditions of
the college. Another of the Davidson traditions will go by the board, however. This year when complimentary speeches about the
good work that the Union has done are made, they will be true.

Under the extremely capable leadership of Peter Parrott during the first part of the school year, the Union program was
expanded and given the sort of life that it should have if it is to help the great social gaps
which exist in the Davidson College experience. The Union has to be more than just some sort of stop-gap measure
to benefit Independents. The Union should not exist just to give Independents something to do. There should not be a
divided social life on campus in which the fraternities take care of 70 percent of the student body and the
Union takes care of the rest.

The Union program this year has reflected the realization of this basic truth, and to a certain extent the whole
student body has shared this insight. The events which the Union has sponsored this year have attracted the whole college
community including faculty and the most benighted Greek supporters of the “Independents-are-weak-men” philosophy. Events such as the hungry i, Trawf,
and the Union Coffee House have been very well done and, consequently, very well received by all observers.

The encouragement given by Director C. Shaw Smith and Assistant Director Tom L. Covington has caused more students from all
sides of the campus to contribute their ideas and to work to implement those ideas in the most effective way.
The hard-working core of the Union Board has been marked by an infectious enthusiasm which has given a real feeling
of life to the Union program.

A very healthy change can be seen in the fact that those who contribute to the Union’s activities no longer
seem to feel that they are doing the poor, abused weak little Independent some tremendous favor by helping him out.
This idea reflected a sadly mistaken opinion of the Independent at Davidson. Now those who are contributing their talents to
the Union program seem to be doing it for the very healthy reason that they just enjoy it. In this
way, campus social life is coming to be centered more around the Union as it should be. With the program
which seems to be developing on campus, disciplinary bodies may have to think again before regarding “campusing” as a punitive
measure.

More Than Exploration

Davidson may be able to make a significant contribution to the field of social psychology next year if it takes
advantage of the unique opportunity with which it will be presented. The qualities of leadership are among the least defined
character traits. Thus far, they have eluded the attempts of those interested in trying to find out what creates a
leader. Apparently, height is about the only characteristic that has even been related to leadership. Even this trait has to
be viewed in post facto terms because the absence of height can motivate one to accomplishment in compensation for shortness
just as well as height itself can give a leader the imposing figure that is helpful for managing people.

The literature about the Richardson Fellows program takes some care to say that the program is designed not to create
a leadership elite on campus but instead to see if the qualities of leadership can be spotted in the early
college years. Because so many leaders are “late bloomers,” our initial impression is that those leadership qualities are not evident
in early life. However, since no one can really say what the qualities of leadership are at present, the Richardson
program could be very useful in answering the question.

Largely because of the fact that the money for the Fellows did not become available until rather late in the
school year, the nature of this year’s program has been forced to be less than systematic. As one adviser to
the program pointed out, the program this year has been more exploratory than experimental. If the program is to accomplish
one of its stated goals, which is to acquire information about the qualities of leadership and the detection of them,
it should be operated on a scientifically sound basis.

Next fall the college will be adding a new member to its psychology department. The particular field of expertise of
the new instructor is social psychology, the discipline which studies leadership qualities. Advantage should be taken of this person’s knowledge
and advice to restructure the Richardson Fellows program so that it could have scientific merit. If this were done, Davidson
might be able to make a significant contribution to this sadly lacking field of knowledge.

POEM by W.H. Jackson

Napalm

Tearing
Sharing
It
Atlantis
Cursing
But we
Dark
Hail

All

Familiar was each face, and dear as life,
That went into the war
But thither, whence a warrior went of old,
Doth nought return-
Only a spear and a sword,
And ashes in an urn.
—Aeschylus

burns peace into the world
away the flesh of village men
it with the breeze.
keeps on eating to bone
where decisions are made
and changes the tone of things.
once burned in time
until they sunk it
madly at the stars:
rain fire upon the trees
eyes glisten in the burn.
Atlantis that saw in time
men buried in one urn.

Radical Effects Of Information Media Culminate In Method Of Transmission

ED. NOTE: This is a review of “The Medium Is The Massage,” by Marshall McLuhan. The book has sparked widespread
comment for its description of the communications media.

By SAM DARBY
Staff Writer

On the first page is a picture of a raw egg on a plate with CPC Process written on the
yolk as a vivid example of the hard-hitting effects that can be realized through images as opposed to linear script.
McLuhan says that “The medium, or process of our time — electric technology — is reshaping and restructuring patterns of
social interdependence and every aspect of our personal life.” In other words, television — the main medium of electric technology
— is obtaining such a hold on our lives that there are profound effects to be seen in the way
we communicate with each other: and not only with the way we communicate but with what we communicate.

Somehow there is a hint of warning in his message, but not a warning against something that is necessarily bad,
but a warning to those who are unaware of what is going on. He is saying, “This is the way
it is, like it or not, and the best thing to do will be to realize that things are changing
and try to understand the effects and the ways to take advantage of them.”

One thing that is pointed out in the book is the matter of sensory perception and the fact that by
living in this linearly organized society most people, when they have gone through our pen-and-ink school system with its ordered
facts and logical systems, lose their abilities for spontaneous, auditory and visual perceptions.

McLuhan points to the television-oriented child of today, who is accustomed to a continuous flow of information from our modern
media and who is thus bored with the nineteenth-century concept of school because of its enforced structure. “Growing up —
that is our new work and it is total. Mere instruction will not suffice.” (“It isn’t that I don't like
current events. There have just been so many of them lately.”)

Carl Orff, the noted German composer, has refused to take as pupils any but pre-school children — children whose “spontaneous
sense perceptions have not yet been channeled by formal, literary visual prejudices.”

So the book is a social evaluation which should scare no one except those who are afraid of the currents
of the society in which they live. It is simply reporting the facts and it's up to the reader to
accept the challenge. McLuhan said this by quoting Montaigne at the top of a picture of a lady dressed in
cellophane and playing a cello: “The thing is, we must live with the living.”

Looking Backward

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Two Solutions To Vietnam

A lot of people have spent a lot of time trying to figure out just why there are hundreds of
thousands of American troops in dinky little Vietnam. Some of them figure we ought to get out in order to
save our political power and influence in the world. Others figure we ought to stay in, so that we might
preserve our political power and influence. Somebody else figures we ought to get out because, even though it would be
a political sacrifice, the moral cost of staying is too great. There are probably even some little old ladies in
tennis shoes, who follow the administration line and believe we have some sort of great moral commitment to the Vietnamese
to make war in their country.

But, behold! Two solutions:

One suggestion is that of Marvin Sparrow. He advocates the Roach Approach. Apparently, of all the living organisms in the
world today, the cockroach has the greatest resistance to radioactivity. Therefore, if one asks, who is to most benefit from
a full-scale world war, one is answered, the cockroach. The cockroach, having the most resistance to radioactivity, is also most
likely to survive a full-scale war: therefore, the cockroaches of the world are viciously and surreptitiously egging on mankind to
begin such a war. Escalation in Vietnam is part of this campaign being conducted by our six-legged friends.

Leslie Brown, on the other hand, has come up with the Theory of the Grandfather Cause. According to his way
of thinking, humans have an innate psychological need for war stories. Resource materials for these stories last for about two
generations, and then it must be replenished: thus, the grandfathers of the world can tell stories which are believable only
to their sons. By the time their sons start producing children, credibility has ceased. The sons of the men who
fought in World War I are now producing sons, and the need for war stories cannot be fulfilled by tales
of filthy Gerries and lousy Japs. Therefore, we must now participate in another war, so that this basic psychological need
can be fulfilled.

Volunteer Army Should Replace Draft's Involuntary Servitude

ED. NOTE: This column was written by United States Senator Mark Hatfield, a Republican from Oregon. Hatfield is noted for
his opposition to the Vietnam war and the draft.

The time has come to end the military draft. When all the facts are in, and all the current and
projected needs for military manpower have been taken into account, it is difficultto avoid the conclusion that America does not
need the draft. America can afford not to have the draft, and America is overdue in bringing to an end
this drastic invasion of the lives and liberties of her young men. Congress is now beginning to debate President Johnson's
legislation to extend the draft another four years. In years past, Congressional examination of this issue was perfunctory. This year
things are different. Thanks no doubt to the heightened awareness of America’s young people, whose lives the draft so seriously
affects, many in Congress are now for the first time rethinking the premises upon which the draft is supposedly based.
An increasing number of them are finding it sadly out of step with both our nation’s traditions and with its
military manpower needs. We must never allow ourselves to forget that however pressing the circumstances, the draft is involuntary servitude.
It is legitimate and constitutional when Congress, exercising its power to raise and support armies, has no reasonable alternative. But
conscription must always be the last desperate resort for meeting military manpower needs, not the cheap and easy expedient. The
only real argument for having an involuntary draft is that the nation could not reasonably afford to raise and retain
the needed military manpower without it. I maintain that the nation can afford to eliminate the draft. In doing so,
we will restore lost liberties. We can end once and for all the inherent inequities of a compulsory system. We
can upgrade our armed forces and increase our national security. And we can do it at a price this rich
and powerful nation can easily afford. There is no numerical shortage of manpower for filling military ranks. With more realistic
service qualifications and sharply increased wages and fringe benefits, and with an enhanced status for military careers, we can attract
the 500,000 men we need each year, even at Vietnam buildup level. All we have to do is to make
up our minds that we are going to stop exchanging precious liberties for false economy—false because, when the total economic
costs of the draft system are taken into account, including civilian wages foregone by draftees, we may well be saving
nothing at all. How do we get from the present draft to the volunteer army? First, we must unequivocally reaffirm
our commitment to the goal of voluntary armed forces. The draft should be extended for one or at the most
two years. During that time, the Defense Department should embark on a program designed to make the draft increasingly unnecessary.
A special joint committee of Congress—independent of the Defense Department and the Selective Service System—should be set up to make
recommendations for a phasing out of the draft, and to maintain a continual review of the Defense Department’s progress toward
that goal. And military pay and fringe benefits should be raised substantially, starting now. It is time we made the
firm decision to put an end to inequity, put an end to uncertainty, put an end to inefficiency, and regain
for our young people the liberties the draft has taken from them.

ONE LAST SHOT
Davidson Draws Strength From Its Existence As A Social Entity

ED. NOTE: This column is the last in a series written by Davidson students and faculty to give them a
chance to express their opinions about the college. Dr. Philip B. Secor is assistant professor of political science.

By PHILIP B. SECOR

I wonder about this expression “one last shot” as a suitable rubric under which to arrange some remarks about Davidson.
That word “shot” suggests that I may be expected to assume a posture of hostility. Is it supposed that the
soon-to-be departed one possesses a special immunity from responsibility which frees him to blast away at the weaker aspects of
his community? Or is it assumed that one possesses a special freedom simply because he is moving on? If these
notions underlie the hopes of any who are bothering to read this column, they will be disappointed; for I mean
only to praise and not to criticize. This may be because my life at Davidson has been mostly within the
faculty segment of this community which may be quite different from the student segment. But I think it is because
I perceive that criticisms of the college have been so frequent of late that these are quite familiar to all
of us. What may be more important for me to do is to describe what it seems to me is
praiseworthy about Davidson College. The best quality in Davidson is that there is such a thing as Davidson College. We
have here not a random selection of human beings, each defining the college in terms of his own special talents
and will; rather, there is here a sufficient commonness of purpose which binds us to one another that one can
actually speak of the college as a social entity—a community which one may join and serve. This is quite rare
today. Anyone who weakens this community by reckless attacks upon it does so not only at his own peril but
at the peril of all whose lives are defined and nurtured by this community. To be sure, the obligation to
criticize is precisely one of those shared values which defines a good college. Most of us who live here have
taken this responsibility seriously. The right to criticize is so strongly a part of what defines Davidson that I could
fill the entire column with examples of how carefully this value is guarded by those who administer the affairs of
the college. Not only are the rights of students and faculty to criticize protected, but as President Martin said eloquently
in his public stand against the North Carolina Speaker Ban Law, Davidson will exercise its influence to protect the rights
to free expression of those in other colleges and universities. The entire state-wide campaign by non-public colleges against the Speaker
Ban Law was in large measure led by Davidson faculty members. I know few college campuses where freedom of expression
is more widely exercised than it is here by Davidson people in the classroom, in student groups, in faculty meetings,
from assembly platforms, in local newspapers, in racial integration activities, in labor unionization projects, and so on. Of course Davidson
has its problems. It would not be a living community if it did not. But most of these problems are
those which result from the very fact that this is an open and inquiring society. If we lacked problems, we
would not be living in the present. It is the very act of being engaged in the controversy which attends
a search for solutions which helps to prove the excellence of our lives at Davidson. Is there an easy answer
to the problem of U.S. military involvement in Vietnam or elsewhere? Certainly not. Then how can there be an easy
answer to the problem of R.O.T.C. on the Davidson campus? Is there an obvious answer to the problems associated with
the growing pains of urbanization here in the South? If not, then how can we expect a simple answer to
the problems of expanding the still largely rural Davidson community so as to incorporate urban culture into the social activities
of students? Is there an easy answer to the problem of allocating scarce resources in the face of seemingly limitless
demands? If not, how can we expect that the Davidson curriculum will offer courses in all fields of knowledge and
represent all points of view? Have we yet discovered how adequately to integrate the white and Negro communities into one
community? If not, how can we expect the college overnight to accomplish the integration of white and Negro people in
Davidson? My point is that most who live in this college community are engaged in a search for solutions to
extremely difficult problems. And this very search which often produces impatience, friction and hard feelings demonstrates the existence of a
viable academic community. But the search for answers is not all that binds Davidsonians into an academic community. Important though
the search for solutions is as a central value joining discrete persons into a corporate college life, it is just
as important that this college continues to express its commitment to excellence. This word, excellence, is vague, I know. I
mean it to suggest qualities both of mind and of spirit in the persons who live and work here. It
is of little value to have persons of inferior intellectual ability engaged in the search for answers to extremely difficult
questions. I needn’t labor the case for the existence of excellence of mind in the Davidson community. A few examples
will illustrate. The humanities course which I came here to work in requires a broad knowledge in many areas on
the part of the teaching faculty. It requires also an interest in interdisciplinary teaching and learning. Many colleges succumb to
the temptation to do sloppy work in creating courses similar to humanities which look good in the catalog but which
are, in fact, mere “scissors and paste” rearrangements of existing introductory courses. At Davidson, however, Dean Johnston sought professors who
are dedicated to interdisciplinary work and encouraged them financially and otherwise to train themselves in areas where they were weak.
In my own case, this meant a summer at college expense studying theology at Union Seminary in New York. Furthermore,
the college has provided us with continuing resources so as to attempt to assure a well-conceived and well-educated program. This
interest in excellence of mind on the part of the Davidson administration is probably not sufficiently appreciated by students here.
Summer research grants for teaching improvement, as well as for publication projects, are almost always available for professors. When I,
for instance, expressed an interest in preparing myself for more adequate teaching in Soviet politics, the college financed a reading
program and a trip to the Soviet Union which helped me immeasurably to improve the quality of my teaching. Finally,
it is excellence of spirit or character in the persons at Davidson which defines the life of this community. By
excellence here, I mean mutual respect. People who tolerate one another’s opinions are not necessarily living in community. Toleration can
suggest a coldly, radically antagonistic situation—a non-community. The spirit which so often has seemed to me present at Davidson goes
beyond mere toleration for another's views and affirms instead a fundamental respect for the persons who express these views. This
capacity to respect the personhood of others within the community is the sine qua non for any mere collection of
persons who aspire to become a community of searchers for the truth. It is this quality which is most critically
absent, I suspect, on too many college and university campuses in the United States where freedom of inquiry has become
an end in itself. What Davidson has given to me, and I hope to many who have lived here, is
an experience of life within a community of free inquiry. To a notable degree, Davidson provides individual freedom within the
context of genuine community. In so doing, Davidson is a living proof, albeit only imperfectly so, that this most difficult
but necessary accommodation of freedom and community is in some measure attainable.
