Che Bauidsanian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1967

It’s Us

ED. NOTE: The following is a review of The War Game, a movie which is to be a featured part of the proposed Peace Week. It was written by K. Jon Morris of The Duke Chronicle.

The War Game should be shown on every television station and in every theater from coast to coast. It should be required viewing for every man or woman in this country (or any other) who advances even the slightest justification for the pattern of modern defense and modern warfare. More importantly, it should be required viewing for each and every member of what Norman Cousins has called “the Shockproof Generation,” the generation which has decided to stop worrying and accept The Bomb.

Thirty-one-year-old Peter Watkins produced this 47-minute documentary for BBC Television. Horrified by the realistic portrayal of the effects of a nuclear attack on Kent County in England by Kent’s own citizens, the BBC has banned The War Game from British television and from sale to other networks, presumably to prevent mass panic, probably to prevent giving life to what is now a dead political issue. Herein lies the thrust of Watkins’ efforts: to portray in a personal way the incredible physical and mental destruction and pain that would result from nuclear war, and to illustrate how removed is the average citizen from the power structure which controls the use of atomic weapons, and indeed how far removed is the very thought of The Bomb’s existence from the consciousness of the man in the street.

It is not a pretty or happy thing to see: it is grotesque and ironic. Projecting itself into the near future, it postulates a world-wide crisis precipitated in Southeast Asia. The Chinese invade South Vietnam; the United States threatens nuclear retaliation; Russia announces that she is preparing to occupy West Berlin; riots at Checkpoint Charlie provoke the Russians to act, NATO comes to the rescue, and, in the face of superior conventional forces, it launches tactical nuclear weapons. The war is on. At no point is there a means within the power structure to prevent the inevitable chain of events leading to holocaust.

From this point, the attention is centered on the personal effects of the attack. As local emergency commissions begin to implement what are obviously inadequate evacuation and civil defense programs, the problems of coping with large numbers of evacuees are overshadowed by real and poignant questions: would women refuse to leave their husbands and homes to be evacuated to a strange and only slightly safer refuge?

And then the bomb. A small boy looks up at the sky and the fireball from a single-megaton bomb landing 27 miles away burns out his retinas. Buildings are reduced to rubble in a matter of seconds. Human flesh burns until charred black and split open. Firemen trying to put out the blaze are felled by carbon monoxide and methane gas and consumed by the 100-mile-an-hour winds and the 800-degree Centigrade temperatures of a “fire storm.”

The after-effects are just as gruesome and more prolonged. One witnesses the tortuous and lasting effects of radiation: a child who has had half of his red blood corpuscles destroyed and who faces seven years as an invalid and then a slow death. Equally telling are the effects on society. People live in total dejection and inertia, wallowing in their own filth. Morality disintegrates. Even among the respectable middle-class, there is widespread disregard for law and order, resulting in pilfering, theft, black market, and eventually murder. In the face of mass malnutrition and scurvy, hunger riots against government control are inevitable. Many survivors will never overcome fear and shock and will live in a state of permanent neurosis.

Where does the responsibility lie? Watkins lays it at the feet of every uninformed and apathetic citizen who allows his government to continue playing nuclear games, who expects his churches to continue rationalizing his apathy, and who expects his information media to continue shielding him from the possible consequences of staying on our present path.

The War Game defies accurate description. It is an experience that transcends fear and shock. Those are not Japanese or Germans on the screen. It’s us.

Deaf Ears

Out of all of the verbiage that has been printed editorially about the anti-Vietnam war protest in Washington last week, comes this little gem from The Christian Science Monitor: “Protestors cannot undertake to wreck with their own hands laws which they don't like. Legal ways and means are available for changing policies.”

Since that comment appeared last Saturday, the editorial writer did not have the benefit of President Johnson's statement Monday night about how responsive he is to legal ways and means. The communists, he said, “cling stubbornly to the belief that their aggression will be rewarded—by our frustration, our impatience, our unwillingness to stay the course.” (bold added.) He continued, “It will not be so.”

If all the protest did was cause the President to say he is unwilling to heed the popular calls for an end to the war, then, sadly, we must conclude that it was a failure. But, somehow, we had the idea that in a democracy the government was supposed to pay attention when a growing percentage of the populace called for it to change its course. Or is that not a legal way or means?

Stepping Down

Davidson's affiliation with the Presbyterian Church has been hit many times by THE DAVIDSONIAN. Unfortunately, much of the criticism of the relationship has been limited to selfish, although valid, complaints about the position that the college takes on campus drinking largely as a result of the church connection. Recently, however, the church has given another reason for the college to reconsider its affiliation.

A little less than two weeks ago the Mecklenburg Presbytery made one of those hypocritical moves that have very often been evidenced in church behavior. The presbytery decided to worship and glorify God by refusing to face up to the issue of open housing in Charlotte.

An eloquent and perceptive evaluation of this action was given in a letter to The Charlotte Observer Tuesday. Earl W. Lawrimore, director of the college news bureau, wrote, “Mecklenburg Presbytery did not just take a step backward in tabling the open-housing project; it took a step downward. The men who voted to table that proposal seemed to say to all the world, both black and white, ‘We care more about the value of our property than we care about the value of human dignity and freedom.’

“And yet they did not have the actual courage to vote openly against the proposal; they preferred to table the motion, apparently fearing that even discussing it would be too upsetting, as if their discomfort would be greater than that of the thousands of trapped Negro ghetto-dwellers in Charlotte, who often find their neighborhood as great a stigma as the color of their skin.”

If the reasoning behind the action is the old argument that the church should involve itself only in matters of the spirit and not those of the flesh, then the supporters of that argument should not be surprised when potential church members decide that they can be more meaningful Christians by avoiding the church.

It is extremely doubtful that this issue would cause the college to be ashamed of its church affiliation, but it does make us wonder. We can only be thankful that someone was open-minded enough to push for some action on the problem in the first place.

New Math?

Visiting mathematicians have never stirred quite the campus excitement that winning basketball teams create—neither is attendance at their lectures quite so impressive. We nevertheless tip our hat this week to Dr. Howard Eves, professor of mathematics at the University of Maine, and to the Piedmont University Center which brought him to the campus.

Dr. Eves, the author of several textbooks and a history of mathematics, lectured twice while here; and each occasion proved stimulating to math major and layman, both of whom have frequently been left behind in the dust of the advanced and esoteric presentations which such men frequently produce. These were different, and the difference was pleasant. We can only hope that we get more of the same.

Hit Civilians? “I Probably Did”

ED. NOTE: This story was written by Mike Norris, a former Davidson student who now works for VISTA.

Brakes squealed as the red Chevy bounced off the road and skidded to a stop at the side of the highway. The driver was a good-looking guy motioning. “Hurry up, kid,” so I threw the bag in the back seat and jumped in. The tires squealed again and we were off down the highway, laughing and talking. Where’m I from? Where’m I headed? School? “No, I'm a VISTA. Off on the highway—you learn a lot from the highway.” And he? Just back from Vietnam. Tail gunner on a HUEY helicopter. He'd shoot at anything that moved. But the civilians—wasn't he afraid he had hit some civilians? “Well, I probably did.” Pause. “A village leader during the day might be a VC at night.” And the pilot? He did his part. “Whenever I'd shoot my machine gun, he'd fire his rockets and machine guns.” Didn't he aim? “Naw, he'd just fire them the moment he heard me fire. Didn’t matter what they hit.” He paused again. “I carried 300 rounds of ammo with me. If we didn't see anything to shoot at I'd be sure to shoot up all the ammo before we got back to base.” What did you shoot at? “Various things. I'd just fire it all.”

Two years ago a Davidson senior met a black soldier on the bus. The soldier was bumming around 'til he got up enough guts to kill himself. He'd been on an American Big Brother mission to Latin America. They had a sniper cornered in an old building and he'd been the one to throw the grenade. Inside they found a mother and two kids. Now the army has learned to cope with such accidental misfortunes.

The American Collection Of Non-Stories Gives Insight Into Fiction

ED. NOTE: TheHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The book reviewed this week, "The Wild Years" by Gene Z. Hanrahan, ed., Dell Books, 75c, is available at the Student Store.

By SAM DARBY
Staff Writer

Ernest Hemingway died five years ago, but I have it on good authority (by the grapevine) that he left his last wife enough manuscripts to provide for her for the rest of her life. However, "The Wild Years" is evidently not one of those manuscripts, but property of the two Toronto newspapers for which Hemingway worked in the early 1920s. Instead of another "Moveable Feast," which Hemingway meant to have published, "The Wild Years" is an anthology of newspaper articles compiled by an overly zealous editor, Gene Z. Hanrahan, who says that these stories “tell a story as few books do of the men and events which made the age we remember today as the wild and roaring years.” (See what I mean by ‘overly zealous’?)

The articles are divided into five categories according to their subject matter and not chronological order. Their subjects are the issues of the times (Prohibition, German reparations, French politics, Oriental wars) with a few stories on the outdoors and local satire. But they are not news stories in the strictest sense because Hemingway reported on personalities in relation to their situations and this insight removes them from the realm of news. But on the other hand, simple insight cannot raise them to the level of lasting literature.

Last week I bought a print by Picasso because it was by Picasso. One would read these stories by Ernest Hemingway if one were either a devoted follower or a serious student of literature (both must realize that a god like Hemingway had to learn to write somewhere). Throughout these pieces are scattered devices and turns of phrasing that became the gems of his novels and the essences of his stories. Here in the early writings one can see them born—and the witnessing is most engaging. There are stories ("Episode in the Black Forest") that compare favorably with his later work and also examples of unparalleled reporting ("Amateur Starvers" or "The Mark's Last Stand"); but most of them must be waded through with a pilgrim’s faith or a mother’s sympathy. If the prospective reader were to offer any other reasons, then I would refer him to "The Dark Hills of Africa."

Trustees: Buildings Vs. Education
“Gentlemen, it has been moved that the President’s new rug be ivory white.”

THREAT TO EDUCATION
A fighting man is protected from such feelings of guilt. It's a different kind of war. New rules. You have to shoot first to stay alive. There are a half-million troops in Vietnam now—most of them guys like we went to high school with. They'd give five bucks to get a Good Guy button from Joe Jelks. A half-million troops in Vietnam now. Those that don't die will one day be driving around the country in their red Chevies. And they'll all have a new sense of right and wrong. And what is their fault and what isn’t.

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Presidents Into Ploughshares
Washington, D.C., was where it was at last weekend. The march on the Pentagon drew peace people from all over the country. Although officially the police estimated the crowd at about 60,000, I would guess the actual figure was closer to 100,000. The militant turn which the peace movement has taken was thrust upon the attention of the nation. Civil disobedience was presented by march leaders as a legitimate option for the demonstrators. About three to five percent of the demonstrators chose this option. The potential for violence (as opposed to mere civil disobedience) was present, despite the leadership efforts to encourage a non-violent approach. This possibility had earlier caused more moderate, older groups like SANE to withhold sponsorship.

Such a militant attitude stems from two causes. First, the increasing cynicism on the part of those who have long opposed the war through traditional political channels has resulted in the withdrawal of many older people from the tactics of demonstrations and marches. Secondly, the youthfulness of the demonstrators acted as a spur for greater militancy, since college students are not normally subject to the restraints imposed by parenthood and the necessity for steady employment. This is not to suggest that the majority of the marchers were ready to get beaten up, tear-gassed, and arrested. Humor was abundant: one sign read “Beat LBJ into a Ploughshare,” another, “The White Man’s Burden Is Giving Me a Hernia.” One man, decked out in mock military regalia, introduced himself as General Hersheybar, and proposed that no one be allowed to go to Vietnam unless accompanied by his parents. Nonetheless, the marchers provided a contrast to the middle-class, middle-aged, coat-and-tie crowds of, say, two years ago.

The question of motivation entered my mind as I viewed the throng at the Lincoln Memorial and at the Pentagon. I'm sure many of those present came to Washington because of the lure of the Jefferson Airplane and the Fugs. However, I doubt that very many who came were in favor of the war, even if they were attracted simply by the entertainment. Also, the demonstration was called a Mobilization, one of its purposes being the crystallizing of opposition on the part of the demonstrators themselves. This aspect of the demonstration is often overlooked by detractors who fear that the march failed in its purpose by alienating the silent Americans who oppose the war. The demonstration was conducted as much for the participants as for the public.

I am not sure as to the long-range value of the march. I fear that attention is diverted to the marchers rather than to the Vietnam war. However, the value of the whole movement in general has been adequately demonstrated by its continued growth and the increasing opposition of the American public to the war. Perhaps the long-range effect of this particular march will be a furtherance of this cause, despite initial negative reaction on the part of Americans over 25.

Government Influence Dangerous
ED. NOTE: This is the last of a series of four articles excerpted by permission of Random House, Inc. from "The Arrogance of Power" by U.S. Senator J. William Fulbright, D-Ark., Copyright, 1966 by the author.

Whatever the circumstances of the moment, whatever the demands of government and industry on the universities—and whatever the rewards for meeting these demands—the highest function of higher education is what might be called the teaching of things in perspective, toward the purposes of enriching the life of the individual, cultivating the free and inquiring mind, and advancing the effort to bring reason, justice, and humanity into the relations of men and nations. Insofar as the study of politics is pertinent to these ends, the university is properly a place in which scholars analyze existing public policies with a view to determining whether they advance or retard the realization of basic human objectives and whether and how they should be changed.

Only insofar as the university is a place in which ideas are valued above their practical application, in which there is greater interest in contributing to the sum of human knowledge than in helping a government agency to resolve some practical problems, is the university meeting its academic responsibility to its students and its patriotic responsibility to the country. Obviously, there are great mutual benefits in relations between the universities and government, but when the relationship becomes too close, too extensive, and too highly valued by the universities, the higher functions of the university are in danger of being compromised.

The danger goes far beyond contractual associations with the Central Intelligence Agency, which, unfortunate though they are, are so egregious that once they become known, there is a tendency to terminate them with all possible haste, although at a lasting cost to the integrity of the institutions involved. Nor is there great danger inherent in government-sponsored research of and by itself; on the contrary, government contracts bring needed money to the universities and needed intellectual resources to the government. The danger lies rather in the extent and the conditions, implicit as well as explicit, of these governmental associations: as long as they involve secondary functions for the university they are not harmful, but when they become primary areas of activity, when they become the major source of the university's revenue and the major source of the scholar’s prestige, then the “teaching of things in perspective” is likely to be neglected and the universality of the university compromised.

In lending itself too much to the purpose of government, a university fails in its higher purposes. It is not contributing to the re-examination of the ideas of our ancestors on which human survival depends; it is not dealing with the central problems of the first generation in human history which holds the power of life and death over its progeny; it is not, in Archibald MacLeish’s phrase, trying to produce “an idea that mankind can hold to.” It is not, therefore, meeting its responsibilities to its students and to society.

The university, it is true, cannot separate itself from the society of which it is a part, but neither can the community of scholars accept existing public policies as if they set limits on the scholar’s proper function, as if the scholar’s proper function, and only proper function, were to devise the technical means of carrying these policies out. The proper function of the scholar is not to exclude certain questions in the name of practicality, or in the name of a spurious patriotism, but to ask all possible questions, to ask what has been done wisely and what has been done foolishly and what the answers to these questions imply for the future.

It would be a fine thing indeed if, instead of spending so much of their time playing “war games,” political scientists were asking how it came about that we have had for so long to devote so great a part of our resources to war and its prevention, and whether we are condemned by forces beyond our control to continue to do so. The scholar can ask what is wrong with the “other side,” but he must not fail to ask as well what is wrong with our side, remembering always that the highest devotion we can give is not to our country as it is but to our concept of what we would like it to be.