Page Six October 27, 1967 The Davidsonian

College To Beef Up Laundry Safeguards
By ROBBIE HOOKER Managing Editor

Steps to make the suddenly vulnerable College Laundry more secure are being taken, according to Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant. Window reinforcements for the laundry, robbed three times in less than a month, were ordered last month and should arrive by the middle of next week, Meetze said. In addition, the college has increased the night surveillance of the building by campus security officers, he said. “And we are looking into the possibility of getting additional protective devices."

The security steps were ordered last month by Robert A. Currie, treasurer and business manager, following robberies of the laundry on the nights of Sept. 26 and 28. A third robbery occurred Oct. 15. The 16-year-old boy charged with storebreaking and larceny in connection with the first two robberies was convicted Tuesday in Mecklenburg County Recorder's Court and given a 12-month sentence to a first offender's camp, suspended for a period of three years. The youth was placed on three years probation. A 13-year-old boy whom police said was an accessory in the first two robberies and then committed the third robbery himself after escaping from a juvenile home was also convicted Tuesday. A Mecklenburg County Domestic Relations Court judge committed the younger youth to the Leonard Training School at McCain, near Aberdeen, for 12 months.

The three robberies netted over $275 from the laundry cash register and the office of Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks, plus a number of clothing articles. All of the money has been recovered and returned to the laundry, Stacks said, but most of the clothing has not been found. Nearly $300 in claims have been paid to students who lost clothing, according to Stacks.

The lithographs now on sale in the Student Store were picked up in Paris last summer by Rob H. Williams, an instructor in the Fine Arts Department. Most of the prints have already been sold, but works by artists like Salvador Dali, Rotelie, and Appel still remain. (Staff Photo By Fonvielle)

Currie Says Private Construction Could Answer Housing Problems
By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer

Apartments built by private industry were cited as the best answer to the problem of married students’ housing this week by Robert A. Currie, college treasurer and business manager. Student Council President Tom Earnhardt told council members Tuesday that his meeting with Currie about the problem was “profitable” and that Currie was “sympathetic to the situation.” The council decided to send out letters to all Richardson Scholars of the last 10 years, asking them to appraise their year at Davidson and evaluate its importance to their later life. It also appointed a committee to appraise the course evaluation forms which were used last year and decide whether the forms should be used verbatim again this year, revised, or abandoned.

In his conversation with Currie, Earnhardt said Currie agreed that changes in the housing situation for married students ought to be made, but did not advocate that the college undertake such a task.

Campus Comment
In response to the question “Do you believe freshman regulations are important enough to be enforced as they are?” these students said:

Lewis Lavine, junior: “No. I feel it is really an anachronistic tradition which has no real place on the campus. Class spirit can be fostered by other means. A regulations court cannot enforce class spirit.”

Jim Gillespie, freshman: “I think the beanies and name tags are important enough to be enforced. The freshmen should be recognized, and members of the freshman class should know each other. I think that next year it should be emphasized that it is not a disgrace to wear them, but it should be explained why it is necessary.”

Hugh Baskin, sophomore: “I think they are important enough to be enforced as long as they serve the purpose of introducing the freshmen to the student body. There should be an emphasis on the positive value of freshman regulations and not on the punitive aspect.”

Gross National Product (Continued from page 1)
player, who, dressed in Levi's and soletess, but not soulless, ROTC shoes, strides about in his patented gunslinger’s walk with a "Dirty Old Man” button pinned on his chest. “We were just an ordinary, unexceptional rug band until we played at the dedication of the New Action Rug at the Union last week,” said Wallace, explaining the band’s unusual name. “Now, we've decided to change our name and specialize in rug music. We feel we're exploring uncharted musical territory. The only reason some people think we're bad is that they've never heard a rug band before.”

The band is rapidly adding to its repertoire of rug music. At the rug dedication, it played “The Old Rugged Rug” and “Rug Of Ages”—“Rug of ages, laid for me, let me run my toes through thee; let the coffee from downstairs never get into your hairs.” Other GNP favorites are “Alexander's Rug Time Band,” “Do You Like Rugs A Lot,” “My Rug,” and “This Is Dedicated To The Rug I Love.”

The GNP’s constantly fluctuating membership produces these musical delights with “numerous kazoos, a jug, a washboard, a washtub bass, several guitars, spoons, an autoharp, and a Jew’s harp,” Wallace said. At last count, the sometime members of the GNP were: Tom Bersuder, Cary White, John Pancake, Mike Norris, Allen Lewis, Ashton Trice, Freddy James, Jim Bailey, Jim McNair, and Butch Thompson. Wallace added that he was well pleased with the public's acceptance of the GNP so far. “One of the fraternities is thinking about getting a new rug, and we may be invited to play at the dedication ceremony. And we've also been mentioned as a possibility for the...

Davidsonian Staff
Editors: BILL ANDREWS, HEYWARD CARTER, KERN PARKER, GEOFF SEAMANS, BILL SEIGLER, BOB TRAVERS
Managing Editors: ED EMBREE, ROBBIE HOOKER
Assistant Managing Editors: FRANK ANDERSON, ROBERT PYEATT
Sports Editor: BOB REID
Assistant Sports Editors: DON SEWELL, NANNY WHITE
News Editor: BOB DUNHAM
Copy Editor: CHARLES McEWEN
Photograph Editor: BILL OLSON
Photographers: KEATON FONVIELLE, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: BURKEY BELSER, NAT HEYWARD, CULLUM ROGERS, MIKE SIGMAN
Assistant Business Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Advertising Manager: JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER
Contributors this week: Ashley Kline, Lewis Lavine, Steve Callendar, John Bolinger, Biff Fine, John Pancake, Richard Cowart, Rob Krehbiel, George Allen, Greg Scott, Edward Hay, Bill Warren, Paul Schneider, Jim Cooley, Bill Spencer, Allen Lewis, Dick Anderson, Bob Meadows, Doug Haynes, Gary Fagg, James Roland, Kim Griffith, Jim Crouse, and Don Hoyt.
Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036Queens College Coffee House. “In fact,” he said, “we're getting so popular that we're thinking of expanding into tablecloth and potholder dedications. ‘We're basically motivated by our love for rugs,” he continued, “but other things—such as the French romantic movement, Bach, Buck Owens and His Buckeroos with a little Carter Family thrown in—have had a big influence on us, too. “The only prerequisites for membership in the Gross National Product are grossness and a love for rugs. And if you're gross enough, you don't even have to like rugs,” he said. “But we're not looking for any new members,” Wallace said. “We feel that we've got the grossest people on campus already.”

Currie said the best solution was to “draw private industry into the area to build some apartments.” He admitted that such a judgment was premature, however, and said he would consider the matter more closely in connection with the specific complaints raised by married students in the recent Student Council poll. The council's letters to the Richardson Scholars may elicit a response which is enthusiastic enough to persuade the Richardson Foundation to fund the program for another year, Earnhardt said. The foundation recently announced that this would be the last year it would finance the program. In connection with the course evaluation, letters are being sent to all faculty members asking them whether they benefited from the service last year and whether they have suggestions for improving the forms. The committee consists of Mike May, Peter Hobbie, Steve Engstrom, and John Williams. Junior Joe Murphy reported that Athletic Director Tom Scott was in favor of additional cuts in physical education classes and suggested that he discuss the matter with Richard C. Burts, dean of students. Murphy also said his conversation with Currie concerning additional vending machines in the dormitories was profitable and added that he and Mrs. Peter Nicholis, supervisor of student housing, would decide the number and type of machines to install.

Reporter: Latin America ‘Ripe For Communism’ Sam Summerlin, reporter with the Associated Press in Latin America, spoke at chapel Tuesday on the political problems of South America. Summerlin, who does most of his work on Latin America, foresees a revolution coming there. Dictatorship is being fomented, if not already established, in many of the countries. He cited the Cuban and the Dominican crises as examples. 

Men like Fidel Castro and Ernesto (Che) Guevara have vowed to create one, two, or three Vietnams in South America, “right on our doorsteps.” Summerlin said that Latin America is the fastest-growing part of the world. Food will soon become a problem. However, Summerlin stressed that “communism breeds on frustration, not starvation” and that frustration exists in South America today.

Open End Views Mystical Poetry Referring to such poets as Mallarme, Baudelaire, and Hart Crane, Dr. T. A. Williams of the French Department spoke of ‘Mysticism and Poetry’ at Open End Wednesday night. The mystical movement, Williams said, stemmed directly from the Romantic movements in England and France, and although mysticism is rooted in both France and England, it developed much more rapidly in France. In describing mysticism, Williams adopted the insights of William James, who ascribed four essential qualities to mystical literature. First, James said, the work is poetic, that is, it communicates absolute knowledge. It transcends thinking. Secondly, the work is monistic—a complete, unitary piece in which all opposites are resolved. Mystical literature is also ineffable, incommunicable because the mystical experience itself is indescribable. And lastly, mystical literature implies transience, for the insight of mysticism can only be discerned momentarily. Williams also examined problems in writing such literature. The poet's chief problem is how to recreate an experience that cannot be explained, he said. “The reason for the obscurity of mystical writings,” he said, “is that it defies explication. It cannot be analyzed because the poem becomes more than the words of the poem. The mystic strives to create oneness or unity within his work.” When Williams opened his presentation to discussion, the subject shifted from poetry to mysticism in drugs. Several students said they felt that the mystical sensation produced with drugs was a penetration into men’s environment or some particular and insignificant object while poetical mysticism suggested an escape from man’s environment into the realm of the supernatural. But Williams replied by reading a passage from the works of Marcel Proust, who describes the mystical, penetrating, bewildered emotion that he derived from staring at a twig.

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, local historian, Union To Sponsor Landmark Tour A guided tour of historical landmarks in Mecklenburg County conducted by Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, will be held next Friday afternoon. Sponsor of the tour is the College Union, which has chartered a bus. Tickets may be purchased at the Union for one dollar. The tour will include visits to several plantations, gardens, colonial homes, and battlefields, according to Tom Alison, tour chairman. Davidson is a noted expert on the history of the college and the county.