The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief
BILL WATSON Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1967

Not Subversive

As the Residence Hall Association tries to establish its existence as a truly functional organ of student government on campus,
it is important that its real purpose be known both by the students who must make it operate as well
as by the administration which must realize its potential benefit to the college. Perhaps it is a reflection of the
sort of lack of trust between generations that Ed Dwelle mentions elsewhere on this page. Perhaps it is the security
of avoiding increased student government. Whatever the reason, the belief seems to have grown up among some members of the
administration that the association is merely an effort on the part of students to gain a free hand in determining
the rules of their life here in order to live an anarchic life of dorm room boozin' and sex. This
is surely overstating the case. After witnessing the generally successful history of increasing student power on campus, certainly the present
power structure could not see the students’ desire for more self-government as only a search for the right to run
loose and wild. Yet, the sentiment has been voiced that the real function of the Residence Hall Association is hidden
underneath its denials and behind the solid coordination of students and other members of the administration who helped draw up
the constitution of the association. According to this line of thought, the subversive function of the organization is primarily to
obtain the approval of opening dorms to visitors, including dates. It is true that this particular proposal might make the
most readable sort of headline for the alumni journal or the Presbyterian Survey. On the other hand, it is not
the idea that seems to be of the most concern to the association. Nor is it the one idea which
will accomplish the actual goal of the association, which is simply to provide a living atmosphere conducive to the sort
of attitude which students must develop in order to make the most of their four years at Davidson. The association
realizes that the lack of concern by students for their residences is just as important as the fact that the
dormitories are so spartan that they hardly seem to deserve care. From the statements of Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of
the dorms and one of the initiators of the association, it seems that the infamous Open House is little more
than a means of stimulating the desire in students to take care of their surroundings in such a way that
they would not have to be ashamed to have outsiders see the way they live. Providing more civilized surroundings is
another solution they seek to this problem. Both of these means are important ways of accomplishing the basic goal of
the association. While others have spoken of an Open House as a first step toward making Davidson co-educational, this does
not seem to be the goal of the Residence Hall Association. It is not fair to the founders of the
association to claim that this is their real purpose.

Just Reward

Richardson Scholars come, and Richardson Scholars go. But this year has seen them come to do a lot more within
and for the college, and now they are having some trouble going. As this piece is being written, several of
the Richardson Scholars and one of the college staff are presenting Samuel Beckett's “Endgame” at Hodson Hall. Because of the
talent and promise shown by several of these Scholars in other drama productions of the year, it is only the
press of work that keeps this editor from attending what should be a most stimulating performance. Elsewhere on this page
appears an open letter to the student body, prepared by the Scholars, which seeks to make the Richardson program even
more meaningful for not only the Scholars themselves but also for the rest of the college. When the Richardson program
was established several years ago, $500 was set aside for each Scholar to use in exploring the U.S. during the
summer before he returned to his respective home. A paltry amount to begin with, the value of this grant has
shrunk since in proportion to the rising expense of traveling within the country. A temporary means of alleviating this problem
has presented itself, at least for the unusually fine group of Scholars at Davidson this year.

Original Abdication

Peitzel Snider, Class of ‘53, made a large issue of the abdication of student responsibility for alcohol on campus when
he appeared at last week's Alcohol Forum. His point was somewhat denied in the minds of his student listeners, but
it comes home soundly in an action taken by the Faculty Executive Committee this week. The committee ruled against a
move by Bill Watson, new chairman of the Student Body Regulations Court, to have the case of a student charged
with possession of alcohol on campus transferred to the jurisdiction of the student court. Part of the reasoning used by
the faculty committee for its decision lay in the argument that the student body had in fact abdicated any right
to self-government on this issue last year by eliminating from the Student Body Constitution the rule against possession of alcohol
on campus. Their reasoning on this decision seems quite sound. In a constitutional society courts do not have the right
to try individuals for actions which do not violate any rules of that society.

Finally, one more Scholar was supposed to have participated in the current program, and the funds to support him were
allotted by the Richardson Foundation. For some reason the young man for whom this scholarship was intended never appeared at
Davidson. As a consequence, the money represented by that scholarship presently lies unused. On a foundation grant to the college
such as the Richardson Scholar program, money unspent is money wasted. A logically effective use of this unused scholarship would
be to divide it among the Scholars, who have made a very positive contribution to Davidson this past school year.
Such a move would give each of the Scholars about $40 to use to gain a broad knowledge of the
U.S. to complement the depthful impressions of this little corner of the country. The fallacy of trying to buy friends
was shown by the eventual collapse of President Taft's “Dollar Diplomacy.” The expression of gratitude for positive help, however, is
a time-honored expression of politeness if nothing else. The contribution that the Richardson Scholars have made this year in their
active participation in so many areas of Davidson College deserves more than just a “Thank You” note in the editorial
columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

In this particular instance, as in several other areas, the student body does indeed constitute a separate society from that
of the rest of the college. Until that “Great Day of Judgment” when this dichotomy is pushed away, it will
remain a fact of life with which students must live while they seek to solve the problem. The decision by
the Executive Committee demonstrates the fact that elimination of all student jurisdiction over a rule with which they do not
agree does not change the fact that the faculty regulations still are applicable. The elimination of the student rule reduces
the chance that students will help the faculty enforce its rule. It does not change the fact that when the
faculty decides to enforce its rule against an individual, that person is still subject to all of the punishments that
the faculty might care to throw at him. The lack of some sort of student legislation in such an area
merely leaves the student body in a grammar school situation where the faculty can dominate the students with a rod
of discipline to be used how it wants, when it wants.

April 14

ROTATE HOUSES

Foreign Scholars Urge Richardson Plan Reform

Dear Editor:

The Richardson foreign student program is a very exciting project and one which we are all proud to partake in,
but owing to its present structure on campus, the scheme has some drawbacks. Those faults result in the Davidson students
not coming into enough contact with the thirteen foreign students. The way we see it the Richardson Foundation intended Davidson
College to benefit from their foreign guests and at present this aspect of the program is plainly not being fully
exploited. We think that the following suggestions would be a useful contribution to improving the scheme. The Richardson Scholars should
reach a larger proportion of the Davidson student body and this could be facilitated by altering the present system of
fraternity assignment. Under the existing policy, two foreign students are assigned to one fraternity for a year's duration and to
all intents and purposes they become members of that fraternity and consequently get little chance to really meet with other
social organizations on campus. We propose that after a two month period the foreign students should rotate to another fraternity.
In this way, the foreign students would get to know all the fraternities and come into contact with a greater
section of the Davidson community. This period should be put into effect one month after the Richardson Scholar starts his
first semester, the time being used so that the student can first become acquainted with his assigned fraternity. With approval
from the Interfraternity Council and fraternity presidents this measure could be implemented to the advantage of all. Another useful improvement
would be a series of “cultural weekends,” perhaps sponsored by the College Union, to enable us to present to the
American students the wide variety of cultures that the 13 foreign students in thismuldet come eh ten _ | .
Fine Arts Success Hinges On from. In fact, as a trial run, the Union is already working in cooperation with
three Richardson Scholars to present a special program on the culture of Japan. There is much room for improvement in
the field of campus organizations, for example, the YMCA or the International Relations Club, presenting features which exploit the availability
of the Richardson Scholars. So far, the Richardson Scholars have really been left to their own to do pretty much
what they think fit, and though this has reaped some beneficial results, such as Jorgen Schlunk’s Japanese play, we all
feel that there should be much more cooperation on behalf of established Davidson organizations and the foreign students.

The freshmen and independents are two large student groups with whom the Richardson Scholars have little or no contact, and
since they play an integral role in Davidson, we feel it is unfortunate that this situation exists. A possible remedy
for this problem would be for the Coffee Union to sponsor a Richardson Scholar, who would of course be included
in the two-week rotation. In order to speed up the disposition of the foreign student to his sponsoring group, we
suggest that one of these members take it upon themselves to do the initial meeting. By the time of the
College Union, if this is conducted so that it is a daily event, we should make it clear that all
these proposals are aimed at benefiting the Davidson student body. The Richardson Foundation for the Student Plan is something of
which the college should be proud, since few small schools or any colleges in the states could host such a
variety of foreign students, and we, the 1967 Richardson Scholars, would like to see the program being used to its
fullest advantage. We hope that our suggestions are implemented in time to affect the 1967-1968 group of Richardson Scholars.

DAVID ELISHA West Pakistan
FRANCIS GAYTE France

The arts on the Davidson campus are indeed in a bad condition. Financially, they are not supported by the administration,
as can be seen in the initially small budget for this year's Artist Series, and they are not supported by
the student body by either active support or by attendance. It appears to be one of those vicious circles that
often occur on this campus: the students do not attend because the quality of performances is not the best, and
the administrators see this lack of attendance to be a reason to decrease the support and spend this money in
places where more students will be reached. We are now in the period of the year designated by the faculty
as the “Fine Arts Festival.” This is the one time during the school term that any considerable concentration of artistic
activity occurs. The week began with two well-attended but very well-performed concerts Sunday and Monday; Tuesday saw the Ugly painting,
Wednesday the Artist Series, and Thursday a production of Beckett's "Endgame." (The cast of the last production was noticeably made
up of Richardson Scholars.) Perhaps the most potentially exciting event of the Festival is yet to come: the Happening, which
is under the direction of Rob Williams. The reason I qualify my statement with its being only potential excitement is
that for this to work, it must be supported by many people from the campus community, other than the fifteen
or so actors. The form of the Happening demands that the audience forget its passive role of watchers and become
actively involved in the event. As witnessed earlier this week, the interest of regular students on this campus stuns participation
in the arts, and the Happening has the added warning label to it that says that it is “underground” and
“hippie.” You cannot attend it as you would a Jack Lemmon movie, only to be amused; you have to be
an active part of the production, and what you get out of it depends on what is put into it.
The Happening may not be the most profound art form, but it appears to be the form of our generation.
If the arts on this campus are to wither away, then all we have to do is continue doing what
is being done now. But if a really strong program is to be insured for the future, much more support
on the part of the students is needed, and it is needed now. I would urge the entire community to
come to the Happening and to the other events planned for the rest of the year. Then perhaps, as we
are told on artistic terms, nests of creative concern will occur here as attendance rises.

JAN GUNNING Baltimore
MIKE GWILYM Wales
ANDERS LINDHAGEN Sweden
GUNNAR MAGNUS Norway
PABLO PAEZ Ecuador
WADE QUINN Nicaragua
AHMET SARACOGLU Turkey (Rotary Scholar)
JORGEN SCHLUNK Germany
SUSUMU TAKEBE Japan
TAKERIKO YOROSEKI Japan
ROGER WARD England

SELECTIONS
Fools’ Names And Fools’ Faces
By EDWARD OWELLE

This Is What's Happening

“Can anyone over 30 be trusted?" Well, yes, but only after they have proven they deserve to be trusted. You
know those old men: turn your back on them for a minute and they'll jump you. A man has to
be careful these days: it seems like everyone over 30 speaks out of both sides of his mouth. “But, of
course, this is just youthful boisterousness. It will pass as they grow up.” And so the talk goes on both
sides of the fence. Pretty soon we'll return to the good ole days. But it could be that the good
ole days weren't so good after all. They were probably the bad ole days, and everyone under 30 knows it.
Just in case anybody's still got his head stuck in the sand, something is happening here with American youth (What
it is ain't exactly clear.), and if others hope they will wake up one morning to find ended the spreading
youthful rebellion against virtually all the fine, old established values, I think they can forget it. The hour of the
hippie—which could enlist enormous numbers of young people from all over the country—is coming, and the most sensible thing all
straight types can do is to take a good look at this new scene. Now there aren't any real hippies
at Davidson. We are pretty far down the line. I'm sure that most of the elders are happy that this
is the case. But the seeds of hippie thought are evident in the student body. The seeds of this youth
movement, here and elsewhere, are love and hope. They are astonishingly powerful weapons. Love and hope have been around for
quite some time now. Why have youth suddenly re-discovered them and embraced them so genuinely and wholly? I think that
it is because we are the inheritors of abundance. Our generation has known plenty from the beginning, and we know
that all the technical ability is available to make all the world know this same degree of plenty. We know
that it is too late for war and ideology to ruin our lives and those of our children. We know
that what the United States thinks is best for the United States is not necessarily the best program for any
other country in the world. Most of all, we know that the power of the nation-state will lead to sure
destruction. We know that there must be a better way to manage the affairs of men. We are constantly looking
for that way. This is Spring Frolics weekend, and we will frolic. But the new type of love and hope
will remain long into winter. If it were not so, would I have told you?

‘Seabarn Of Dawn’
Ed. Note: These are some poems from Ken Andersen’s Volume which won the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award.

BIRCH DAYS
Indians play their language against
Wind blows and streams
Seep birth boats:
Beneath the willows,
Weaving all into creeks,
As children’s games
Flow to guilty shades of war.
Time owled, war driven
First guileless into the past
To live again
In war birch days.

DRIFTWOOD BANQUET
To driftwood memories—
Glide crescent lights
Under steel skies
Where tumid ladies
Play in games of ethereal love
And prime against the grain
Of sanded shores,
As tidal currents
Pull amphibious dreams
To set
With moonlit candles
On raft-sea tables,
Between their morning walls
Scavenger souls
Stooped to devour scraps
Of salvaged dreams.

WHEAT DANCERS
Unharvested wind dancers,
Prance the autumnal roll
With cornucopian sighs,
Its being only potential excitement is that for this to work it must be supported by many people from the
campus community, other than the fifteen or so actors. The form of the Happening demands that the audience forget its
passive role of watchers and become actively involved in the event. As witnessed earlier this week, the interest of regular
students on this campus stuns participation in the arts, and the Happening has the added warning label to it that
says that it is “underground” and “hippie.” You cannot attend it as you would a Jack Lemmon movie, only to
be amused; you have to be an active part of the production, and what you get out of it depends
on what is put into it. The Happening may not be the most profound art form, but it appears to
be the form of our generation. If the arts on this campus are to wither away, then all we have
to do is continue doing what is being done now. But if a really strong program is to be insured
for the future, much more support on the part of the students is needed, and it is needed now. I
would urge the entire community to come to the Happening and to the other events planned for the rest of
the year. Then perhaps, as we are told on artistic terms, nests of creative concern will occur here as attendance
rises.

In pure ashed winter
Shadows may clog ensemble
Across the hill,
As fall becomes the fall,
And tumbles to devour.
Unharnessed love wheat,
Winter wheat desert dry,
Save in smothered mothered homes
Where milky wheatflakes
Float in the active pollen
Of planted seedling men,
Beyond the driveway flag laws.
In the snowwood January
Tramp two wheat prayers,
Winter steps sprangled
To the flowering wedding
Of the Abrahamed earths
With winter wheat,
Dancing and thundering
To love by the strong.

SUMMER BOY
Quiet gift of warm dust
Pines,
Nestling between blue, dirty
Towns,
And surrounded from summer
Sirens,
Fields alive with sweetbourne birds.
Two bodiless trip over a fence,
Drenched skin slick to mirth
Jeans,
Patched, patched yearning,
Not torn from birch wire
And stained purple from berry patches,
Royal princes of the woods
With frog-stuffed pockets,
Toes hardy, and sun-dried
Buckles
After a swim in the crystal lake,
Leap to capture fireflies in the meadow.
Through the aged gate,
Creaking above youthful abodes,
Summer day boys
Run to the house
With envious adventures to tell.

RED BARN FRIEND
The boy plays with the collared veal,
Unescaped.
A black car flies the taffy bird,
Guarded by the innocent
Tribe owner of a grownup
Scarecrow,
Protecting seeded fields.

COUNTRY PREACHERS
In evil weevil days
Of the devoured nation,
Innocence glowed white
On any sexton of county preachers,
Gathered in crowded
Security.
Above them the cosmological cloud
Exploded rain thunder
To melt their sugar faith
And send them out
Like the dogs
In search of fire hydrants.
