THE CASE FOR VW'S

The other day while rambling through the pages of this newspaper, I happened to see that some pundit had compared
Davidson’s football program with a Volkswagen puttering along in the Indianapolis 500. My word. Once I had finished marveling at
the brilliance of this analogy, I continued reading and found that the author was concerned about Davidson’s less than spectacular
record. Since the college has apparently escalated its commitment to football, he argued, Davidson should expect to see some positive
results for its investment. But alas, he feels the ’Cats have seen little glory, because Davidson's requirements and capacities cannot,
and should not, maintain a successful, big-time team. But, warns our helpful friend, the evil geniuses in the athletic department
are not content to lose to The Citadel and University of Richmond. They want to lose to teams like Duke,
State, and Virginia. Horrors.

So, the argument goes, why not devalue football and return to the bad old days when losing was cheaper and
wins came slower than service at Lefty’s. It’s a good argument. But it’s a better fairy tale. The argument is
weak because the basic premises are grounded in ignorance. First, Davidson apparently has no master plan to expand the football
program beyond the capabilities of the college. There are no plans to schedule Georgia, N. C. State, or even Duke.
The only “master plans” that have been devised for scheduling are those worked out by the faculty committee on athletics
and a group of Davidson graduates, including Will Jackson and Quay Blalock. This group decided that Davidson should play most
of its games within the Southern Conference. This means not only teams like Furman but teams like East Carolina and
William and Mary.

Then each year Davidson would schedule a superior, non-conference team for, in Coach Homer Smith’s words, “a one-shot try.” A
single addition, they reasoned, would not upset the college nor constitute an expansion of the program. Any competitor realizes the
value in playing superior competition. And the chance for an upset is always a factor. Once these teams had been
on the schedule for a “one shot,” they would not be re-scheduled as a rule. This hardly constitutes a real
“expansion” of the program. And don’t imagine that for his “one shot” teams, Homer Smith has arranged massacres with teams
like Southern Cal, Georgia, or Alabama. Rounding out schedules for the 1960s, Smith has scheduled, on the recommendation of the
faculty committee on athletics, games with Virginia and Vanderbilt. And you can climb down from the ceiling, since Virginia doesn’t
play football like it parties and Vandy doesn't compete like it studies. Virginia has been on the schedules of Southern
Conference teams for years now, and few people consider the Cavaliers to be as tough as other teams in the
ACC. As a matter of fact, the Cavaliers lost to a Southern Conference foe this season. It was VMI.

Keith, Poole Deliver Punch As Wildcats Maul Huskies

When the Wildcats went north last weekend to play the University of Connecticut at its Homecoming game, the fans were
rustling through programs to find out what Davidson was. When the ‘Cats left, local sports buffs were calling them the
best team they’d seen this season. With the number one passer in the nation, Jimmy Poole, and a promising junior
halfback named Kerry Keith, the ‘Cats put together an offensive punch that knocked the Huskies for a 38-18 loop on
their home field in Storrs, Conn. While Davidson's offense rolled over UConn's highly-rated defense, the fledgling Wildcat defense held the
Huskies’ offense cold until the final moments of the game.

“I've never seen anything like it,” said Coach Homer Smith. “We came out on that field and the stadium was
filled with their Homecoming crowd. It was a big game for them and they thought they would win. But before
long we'd moved the ball more than 200 yards before they'd gotten a first down.” What seemed to give Davidson
the explosive edge was the air-ground attack combination of Poole and Keith. Poole fired 39 passes and connected on 23
for 297 yards. Meanwhile, junior Kerry Keith didn’t let his injured leg stop him from scoring a touchdown each period
to lead the individual scoring. Keith's most dramatic touchdown run came in the third quarter when the fullback galloped 59
yards through UConn’s shredded defense. His other scores came on short dives over the line. ‘Cat end George Hannen added
another six points when he scored on a 13-yard pass from sophomore reserve quarterback Gordon Slade. Defensive captain John Giles
added three points with a field goal to wrap up the scoring for the ‘Cats.

Connecticut’s scoring first came in the second quarter on a 10-yard sprint by quarterback Paul Gruner. Regular quarterback Pete Petrillo
scampered for 10 yards while fullback Mike Boyrczeski plunged for two to give Connecticut the rest of their scores. Davidson
kicked off to UConn to open the game. But Giles nailed Petrillo with a hard tackle on the ensuing play,
forcing him to fumble and give the Wildcats possession. Keith scored on a short run.

Road To National Rank Long, Tough For Poole

By ROCKY CROSSWHITE Sports Writer

Three years ago a bench-warming quarterback named Jimmy Poole nearly quit Davidson's football team. But he stayed on and is
now the most successful college football passer. This year the 5-9, 160-pounder has completed 125 passes out of 212 attempts
for 1,337 yards and eight touchdowns. His .590 pass completion average leads the nation at the present time. His achievements
have prompted coaches, including Frank Jones of Richmond, to label him “the best quarterback in the Southern Conference.”

But times weren't always so good for Poole. Considered too small to play college ball, he received only one football
scholarship offer, that one from Davidson. He spent a year red-shirted on the bench and then began his junior year
as an obscure substitute on Coach Homer Smith's team. When the starting quarterback was injured, Poole began to play and
play well. In one game, he set the school passing record while only playing in two quarters. Last season he
set the conference pass completion record and was named conference co-player of the year.

Foglemen Chalk Up Wins But Suffer Telling Injuries

By JIM ROLAND Sports Writer

This week's soccer action gave the Wildcats two victories to improve their record but left them in poor shape physically
in the face of the conference playoffs. All three ‘CatsGoalies are on the injured list. Harry Hamil turned his ankle
in practice before the Belmont Abbey game and Jeff Planer was knocked out during the Pembroke game. John Lippert, who
made 16 saves after replacing Planer, broke his finger in the following practice. But Coach Harry Fogleman’s problems do not
end at the goalie position. Starting fullback Rob Powell broke his ankle in practice Tuesday. The Wildcats were at top
strength when they took on Pembroke last Saturday. Davidson recovered from a 1-0 half-time deficit to win 5-3. “I put
in the ‘hatchet’ team after the half,” said Fogleman, “and told them that if they scored within five minutes, they
could stay in another five minutes. They scored right away.” The “hatchet” team, according to Fogleman, are “my rough boys.”
The scoring was well spread among the players. Goals were made by Sam Bell, Alec Weister, Alfonse Carillo, Randy Carter,
and Bill Horton, who, says Fogleman, “chested it in.” “They had very good personnel, and moved the ball well,” he
said, “but they weren't as well disciplined as we were.”

IMAC Names 15 To All-Star Unit

Fifteen members of fraternity flickerball teams have been named to the first annual all-star team, IMAC President Doug Rhymes announced
this week. The all-stars, who were chosen by vote of their opponents, will play a faculty team at 3 p.m.
tomorrow at Richardson Field. Pinky Hatcher of Kappa Alpha was the only unanimous choice for the designation. Hatcher will act
as team captain while Rhymes of Phi Gamma Delta will be co-captain. Others named to the team are Charlie Brockwell,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Frank Bass, Beta Theta Pi; Tom Clayton, Sigma Chi; Geoff Birkhead, Alpha Tau Omega; Ronnie Hunt, Phi
Delta Theta; Rick Harrell, Kappa Alpha; and Bruce Weldner, Sigma Nu. Named to the second team were Rusty Brannon, Phi
Gamma Delta; Dave Jennings, Alpha Tau Omega; Vance Hughes, Alpha Tau Omega; Dave King, Phi Gamma Delta; Barry Bishop, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon; and Cecil Clifton, Alpha Tau Omega. Rhymes said there will be no admission charged to see the game,
and he encouraged flickerball fans to be sure to attend the game.

This season his dazzling performances, even when his team is losing, have prompted some observers to see him as an
All-American nominee. Poole has also been ranked fifth in the nation in total offense. Part of Poole’s success lies in
his mastery of fundamental skills of quarterbacking. “We are thinking of using Jimmy's passing style in our training films,” Smith
said. “He keeps the ball up, always ready to throw as good quarterbacks have to do.” Poole gives his teammates
credit for his success. “The offensive line has kept the defense away from me,” he said, “and this is the
real secret of my passing success this year.” Poole is a cool commander on the field who calls his own
plays even when the pressure is on. “Jimmy calls most all of the plays,” Smith said. “Our job is to
keep plays in front of him in case he wants to use them. He calls games as well as he
passes.” “Jimmy never gets rattled,” quarterback Kerry Keith said, “no matter what the situation is in a game.”

Davidson led 24-6 at the half. UConn ran mostly a running game, chalking up 260 yards on the ground against
112 in the air. Davidson played the reverse, rolling up 189 yards on the ground while netting 297 yards in
passing. The Huskies were hurt by their two fumbles, one of which set up the ‘Cats first score. Davidson never
lost the ball by fumbles. The game was especially satisfying to the ‘Cats, whose record so far this year has
not lived up to most pre-season expectations. Davidson now stands last in the Southern Conference. The Wildcats’ record now stands
at 3-4. “When we were waiting in the (New Haven) airport, we happened to run across the Cornell football team,”
Smith said. “One of the players asked Jimmy Poole if Davidson were a prep school.”

Harriers

By DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson's Wildcat harriers outran runners from Pembroke, Appalachian, and High Point Monday to win a four-way meet held here. The
‘Cats won by finishing with 43 points to Pembroke’s 64, Appalachian's 61, and High Point's 52. The victory boosted the
cross-country team's season record to 7-4-1 with only the state meet and the Southern Conference meet remaining on the schedule.
The meet was very close, all four schools fielding strong teams. Of the first four to finish, no two were
from the same team. Doug McElroy of Appalachian won the event with a time of 28:41 over the five-mile course.
Karl Hubay of Pembroke followed him across, with Jim McLaughlin of Davidson behind him. High Point’s Bill Carter finished fourth.
Davidson's team score was helped by the fact that five Wildcat runners finished in the top 15 places. John Puckett
ran second for the ‘Cats, finishing fifth in the meet. Team captain Randy Phillips crossed the finish in eighth place,
running third of the Davidson runners. Freshman runners Reaves Louthan and Phil Croy finished 12th and 15th respectively. Coach Heath
Whittle commended the freshman runners for the help that they have provided the varsity all season.
