Page Six April 7, 1967 7 The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON UNAFFECTED

A federal grand jury made the indictment after merchandise with the rigged prices was allegedly sold to students at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. According to the indictment, handed down in Atlanta, prices have been "maintained at artificially high levels and students in Georgia have been deprived of the benefits of free competition." The indictment went on to say that the defendants "combined and conspired illegally to restrain trade by agreeing to submit rigged prices and bids for the products."

Peter Nicholls, manager of the Davidson Student Store, indicated that although Davidson rings are supplied by Balfour, such a rigging of prices is not possible here because Balfour is not in competition for ring sales at Davidson. According to Nicholls, Davidson entered into an agreement with Balfour several years ago which stated that Davidson would use only the Balfour ring. Since that time the agreement has expired, however, and the school is now contacting other firms and individuals to compare designs and prices. Nicholls stated, however, that the prices offered by these firms differ very little with the Balfour price. None of the new firms contacted are involved in the Georgia Tech scandal which occurred last month. Another firm involved in the indictment, Herff Jones Company, formerly supplied rings at Davidson.

Inspection Team Finds Brigade ‘One Of Best’

By BOB DUNHAM News Editor

A federal inspection team from Fort Bragg that visited Davidson Tuesday and Wednesday found the ROTC department here "one of the best that they have seen thus far," according to Col. Frederick B. Outlaw. Col. Outlaw, head of the Davidson ROTC department, said the team left Davidson with a "very good overall impression."

The staff which visited Davidson included Col. William G. Patterson, Major James E. Cashwell, Major John K. Crox, and Sergeant G. A. Zebo. All are from the Third Army stationed at Fort Bragg. The inspection involved a complete investigation of the entire ROTC department. According to the ROTC staff, all aspects were inspected thoroughly. Everything from cadet records and grades to drill performance was observed by the visiting inspection team.

The serious tone of the military review was broken during the drill period when a small group of students situated on the roof of Duke Dormitory began chanting anti-war slogans and broadcasting an anti-war recording. The broadcasting effort was cut short, however, when the Davidson security force shut down the power in the dormitory. The students resumed chanting as the troops marched in from drill and continued until the entire cadet brigade had passed.

Spanish Dancers To Appear

The Davidson College Artist Series will bring the highly acclaimed Jose Molina Bailes Espanoles to the campus for a two-hour presentation in Love Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday. The four-year-old company prides itself on making the longest seasonal tour of any dance group in the United States—forty weeks. It is well-known for a repertoire which is representative of all Spanish provinces and which includes songs and dances from the court of Charles III, from the famous Spanish operas and ballets, and from the Andalusian gypsy camps.

ANDALUSIAN ARTISTRY Espanoles To Present Spanish Dances

Issues Speaker Views Two Asian Revolutions

The social revolution in Southeast Asia and the U.S. role in it was the topic of Dr. Frank Trager, Great Issues speaker in chapel yesterday. "The mainland of S.E. Asia, from Burma to Vietnam, can support itself from its own resources. It is an under-populated area that is rich in history and heritage," said Trager, a Professor at NYU.

This area has undergone two distinct revolutions, and these revolutions and social tensions still remain in some areas. The first revolution, according to Trager, occurred when every country in the area except Thailand was forced to submit to western and Chinese imperialism. The colonization of this period produced the first signs of social revolution and encouraged the growth of nationalism. After nationalists came to power in these countries they were faced with problems of building and modernization of the state. "The negative aspect of the political revolution had to become positive with the formation of constitutions, a civil culture, and with the conversion of a monoculture into a modernized, industrialized society."

This second revolution, according to Trager, involved first the gradual intervention of the U.S. and second the entrance of Communism into the area.

To Present Speakers

Speakers presenting choices for the YMCA Benevolence Project and Peter Taylor, the Vereen Bell Award speaker, are slated for chapel programs on Tuesday and Thursday, respectively. Support of a school off the coast of Korea on a small island in the Sea of Japan is one of the three proposed causes for the Benevolence Project funds. George Brown of Davidson will present information on the 20,000 people who live on this island without adequate educational facilities. Information concerning a city-wide recreational program to be maintained in Hazard, Ky., the heart of the poverty-stricken Appalachian region, will be presented by junior Ross Brown. Kays Gary, columnist for The CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, will describe as a third use of the spring gift fund the needs of the Holy Angels Nursery Home in Belmont, a home established by several nuns to care for retarded children who have been rejected by their parents.

Peter Taylor, professor of English at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, will present the annual Vereen Bell Award address during Thursday's chapel. The award, given in recognition of creative writing by Davidson students, honors Bell, a Davidson alumnus and writer killed during World War II. Taylor has contributed numerous stories to various periodicals, and over the past two decades he has published four short story collections. He has taught at Ohio State University and at University College, Oxford, England.

Richardson (Continued From Page One)

as leaders and will be able to get the feel of what leadership in a complex society is. A summer job placement program will assist the fellows in securing summer jobs that will stretch their talents and provide them with pre-professional experience. Because of the program's contacts with top men in business and the professions, the fellows will have job opportunities that would not otherwise be available to them. The college as a whole will receive an excellent opportunity for all students to have contact with men such as Maxwell Taylor, Robert McNamara, Charles Percy, Walter Rostow, Ralph McGill, or other influential figures.

Seminars on the nature of leadership, on public problems, and existing institutions will be conducted regularly. The fellows will undertake major projects at Davidson, in which they will use their organizational ability.Creativity and talent in leading other people. Director Smith uses an analogy to explain the program. “It (the program) takes these young men to the top of the mountain of success for a brief look, in order that they might know what is there. It then brings them back to the bottom of the mountain and challenges them to climb," Smith said. George Penick, one of the freshmen selected, said, “It’s an opportunity to write a blank check for anything the individual feels he can do. It is developed by the students rather than by some hierarchy and its success will depend on what they do with the program." In outlining the program, Kirk Reed, student member of the selection committee, places strong emphasis on the advantages that...

Armstrong Shows Viet Film

The war in Vietnam can be won in two years, according to journalist Kenneth S. Armstrong. Armstrong, who writes for the Cleveland Plain Dealer, narrated his own film on Vietnam and discussed the country and the war there at the College Union Tuesday night. In order to win the war within the two-year period, Armstrong revealed that many officers and that he himself feel that the bombing raids should be concentrated in the south. He said that 90 percent of the B-52 bomber raids are a waste of money and that “those bombs just sink into the mud.”

Davidsonian Staff

Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
EDWARD DWELLE
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ED EMBREE
ROBBIE HOOKER

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
BOB REID

Assistant Sports Editors:
DANNY WHITE
DON SEWELL

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
GUNNAR MAGNUS
NAT HEYWARD

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
George Cretekos, Lewis Lavine, Dick Spencer, Charlie Elliott, Bob Stubbs, Carter Fussell, Danny Coltrane, Bruce Welhe, John Rowe, Marvin Ellison, Ken Cool, Chuck Green, John Williams, Kenneth Hamilton, Jim Cooley, Joe Jones, Bob Buchanan, Woody Gleason, Brodie Brown, and Mike Bates.

Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

The journalist presented Vietnam and the war there as a country and a conflict full of contrasts. In five minutes, one can travel from the jungle to a French restaurant in Saigon. In the delta area, it is the job of the Marines to protect the peasants, and among the Montagnard natives in the highland areas, they carry out what Armstrong termed “kindness patrols.” But with the First Cavalry division around An Khe, success is measured by the number of casualties.

Armstrong has spent most of his time in Vietnam with U.S. troops and has witnessed many types of operations. He characterized the conflict as a war that “has no front, no rear.” Battles spring up spontaneously due to the rapid movement of the enemy Viet Cong forces. Calling the men serving there “the most intelligent, the most aggressive, and the most adaptable” fighting forces that America has ever had, Armstrong cited the necessity of these qualities in fighting the Viet Cong. Fighting the Viet Cong is like “fighting a will o’ the wisp, a shadow,” he said.

The biggest problem with the VC is that they wear no uniforms, Armstrong indicated. Even the most innocent-looking woman may be a Viet Cong agent. Another problem is that the Viet Cong are hard to spot in the thick jungle. In a country where most of the roads have been torn up or mined, Armstrong said that transportation is very difficult. To deal with this problem, helicopters are widely used. Giving a specific instance, Armstrong said that the First Cavalry division is using about 500 choppers which give them the mobility needed for attacking the elusive VC.

Armstrong told of the countermeasures that the Viet Cong have taken to stymie the effectiveness of the ‘fantastic mobility’ of the U.S. troops. The Army has uncovered a Viet Cong tunnel system extending from Saigon in the south to the Cambodian border, a distance of some 100 miles.

Jim MacNair Elected New YRC President

Jim MacNair was elected president of the Young Republican Club at its annual meeting Wednesday. Dave Jones was elected vice president, Bill Cockrill treasurer, Tom Wheatley secretary, and Steve Sands assistant secretary. All officers were elected by acclamation. Chosen for the Board of Delegates, which elects delegates to state conventions, were Stewart Allan, Pascal Batson, Sam Bradley, George Cretekos, John Rowe, and Bill Schafer. Members of the nominating committee will be Franklin Anderson, Kent Antley, Joe Beard, Harry Hamil, and Robert King.

Commenting on the elections, outgoing president Beard said, “I think Jim MacNair will be an excellent officer next year. The club elected a set of officers which will do a great service.” On his term as president, Beard said that, looking back, “I would not have done anything of any significance differently.”

TROOPING THE LINE

Col. Patterson (center) Inspects Brigade

Wind Ensemble Slates Concert For Sunday

The College Wind Ensemble will conduct a concert at 4 p.m. Sunday in Hodson Hall. Dr. Grier M. Williams, associate professor of music, said, “This is one of our formal concerts; therefore, it will be held in Hodson Hall. We will play some, though not all, of the selections we played on tour.” David Hoag, a senior from Charlotte, will play “Tico-Tico” on the marimba. Williams noted that “this will be his last performance because he is graduating.” He added that Hoag has played in over 30 concerts during his college career. “Bill Anderson, a junior who is going to France next year, will play ‘Andante’ and ‘Allegro’ on the trombone,” Williams said. He added that 15-17 players will perform three selections from ‘Turkish Band’ by Louis Spohr.

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
MAIN ST. Davidson, N.C.

If you're 16-22 you can be a Young Ambassador. Tell the people you meet about America while traveling in the friendliest way—via bicycle and train, staying in Youth Hostels as unique as a chateau, as simple as a university dormitory. Travel in small co-ed groups with a trained American Youth Hostels leader as chaperone who'll take you to famous and untouristy places. You'll get a travel wardrobe from Lady Wrangler's or Mr. Wrangler’s Young Ambassadors Collection and you'll be supplied with a bike and saddlebags. Go to the store nearest you that sells Lady Wrangler or Mr. Wrangler Sportswear. Look for the Young Ambassadors Collection and get your application form. Scholarship applications close May 5, 1967. Lady Wrangler Sportswear, 1407 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10018. Mr. Wrangler Menswear, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10001. American Youth Hostels