Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief
CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1967

Brotherly Obsolescence

A century ago, a new phenomenon, the fraternity, began emerging on Southern college campuses. At the time, the concept of brotherhood within a small cohesive group of 10 or so men was viable and meaningful. But in the intervening 100 years, the "adventures in brotherhood" have grown into a giant business with huge budgets and full-time staffs, operating out of infamous national offices. Few Davidson fraternity men are ignorant of the demands the national office places on local chapters, all in the name of the brotherhood-at-large. Such programs as elaborate buildings to house the national headquarters, full-time staffs of executive secretaries, field secretaries and stenographic secretaries, loan funds and scholarships drain the local chapters. It’s not unusual for Davidson fraternities to pay $2,500 or more a year into the coffers of the national office, all in the name of the national brotherhood. In return, they receive little more than harassment for failing to turn in reports on time and an occasional free bed in a house when a brother visits a strange town.

Whether or not brotherhood can exist in a group of 40 to 60 people eating together daily is a moot question. But the idea of brotherhood binding together thousands of undergraduates and countless more alumni, few of whom have ever seen each other, is so ridiculous that it doesn’t even merit discussion. It is conceivable that the name and reputation of a national fraternity might help local chapters at some schools, but at Davidson, the central organization does little for locals other than take money and stifle initiative. Most fraternity men here acknowledge the anachronism national fraternities represent and yet are reluctant to break the ties with the mother group. The usual explanation is a single fraternity's fear of being alone in its move, with possible detrimental repercussions in rush. The obvious solution lies in concerted action by the entire fraternity court. In doing so, no single fraternity could be adversely affected. The obvious locus for such action should be in the Interfraternity Council, where representatives could maintain a liaison between the rest of the court and individual members. The move for local autonomy would have a doubly beneficial effect: Not only would local chapters find themselves in an improved situation, the college’s reputation would be boosted by moving away from an anachronistic system.

Change: Will It Come?

When the disciplinary case involving a student found under the influence of alcohol triggered last month a short-lived discussion of the faculty’s policy on drinking, a minor change was made in the wording of the punishment against drinking infractions, giving a wider range of disciplinary action. At the time, the faculty’s action was understood to be an interim policy, until a detailed examination of the entire drinking situation could be undertaken. But since that time, the only action resulting from the discussion has been an announcement that enforcement will be more stringently enforced—not a word about looking into possible changes in the existing rule.

Realism alone should force a reexamination of the present policy, which is virtually unenforceable without ruinous consequences. President D. Grier Martin was quoted last month in THE DAVIDSONIAN as saying that the increase in security personnel and the drinking rule should not be taken “as a sort of public relations thing” for the benefit of parents and trustees. It is inconceivable that such a thought should even occur, for if the administration is willing to take the steps necessary to enforce the rule, in particular, room searches, the result would be anything but public relations, at least favorable relations. The resulting publicity could do a great deal of harm to the college's reputation.

There is no getting around the fact that in any society of mature individuals, there must be a consensus about an acceptance of the rules under which the society lives. The obvious exception is that of a police state. Maintenance of a dry campus has always been student enforced, and the repeal last year of student regulations does not reduce the necessity of considering student opinion and feeling on the matter. When the college underwent a similar trauma over the alcohol question two years ago, an acceptable solution was found only by joint conferences between students and faculty. Such an approach is obviously needed now; procrastination in initiating the study is only postponing a difficult problem that must ultimately be faced and solved.

ROTC’s Lasting Benefits

Elsewhere in this issue is an article describing the nationwide controversy over the ROTC program. It is apparently a vital issue at a number of schools, and has been made even more so by the nation’s misgivings over the course the military is carrying out in Vietnam. But despite strong feelings of a few students, there has never been any strong protest here over the Army's presence on campus and very little over the compulsory nature of the basic program. In fact, the ROTC program often appears so attractive to certain students (we have in mind certain athletes whose height exempts them from the program) that they elect to take the course despite their immunity. Apparently they feel that the lasting benefits derived from the week's Leadership Laboratory and care and cleaning of the M1 outweigh those of other elective courses.

Sloan Opens The Door

Interdepartmental programs in colleges and universities are a dime a dozen, and despite boasts five years ago of Davidson’s pioneering with its Humanities program, such survey courses of Western Civilization are no exception. However, the quarter million dollar grant from the Sloan Foundation will enable Davidson to make a valuable contribution to the interdepartmental approach to education, for such ventures in the field of the sciences are virtually unexplored in the twentieth-century Knowledge Explosion, in which scientists in particular have been forced into more and more narrow specialization. The grant will allow Davidson to be true pioneers in the field, and a successful program could boost the college’s reputation across the country, as other schools will consider implementing similar programs. Indeed, even receiving the grant indicates a certain confidence in Davidson and the college’s proposed interdepartmental science program. Other Southern schools are at a premium on the list of the 20 schools receiving the grants, and the recipients are all recognized as being among the leaders in American education. Many are among the schools the Blue Sky Committee will be visiting and studying for ideas for curriculum reform. The opportunity for such a program is particularly suited to the small liberal arts college, which obviously would be unable to produce the specialist in the first place. By grounding the student in the history and philosophy of science and the scientific method, not only is the college pursuing its goal of the liberally educated man, but it is preparing any student for a better overall view as he undertakes the inevitable specialized graduate study.

Belligerent Females

The idea of conscripting women into military service is nothing new, but at a recent conference on the draft, anthropologist Margaret Mead gave a novel reason for not sending them into combat. Women are just too fierce, Dr. Mead said. “Men have nice rules, like not fighting on Christmas,” she added. The Christian Science Monitor points out several historic female warriors whom Dr. Mead may have had in mind. Witness Boadicea, the Anglican queen who sacked three cities in the first century before her army was crushed by the Roman oppressors. Whether or not Dr. Mead’s reasoning is valid, she made a valid point: Women can well serve in such vital, though not so bellicose, roles as typing and filing.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Watson Proposes Cure For Coliseum Ticket Ills

Dear Editor:

Any student who attended the Davidson-Princeton game and who sat in the “student section” can recall the annoying confusion over seating. The Coliseum management directed Davidson students to several sections in the left mezzanine and told students to sit anywhere in that area. But the management also directed non-student ticket holders to the same sections and seated these people in their specific seats. The results—often a group of friends was split or a student and his date were forced to move to a new seat.

To correct this confusion, I have the following suggestions:

1) When selling student and date tickets the Athletic Ticket Office should sell all tickets in their numerical sequence and sell each section entirely before opening a new section. Thus all seats in a section or part of a section would be sold only to Davidson students.

2) Clearly mark these sections and a partial section as reserved only for Davidson students and their dates. Signs reading “Davidson Student Section” could be used.

3) Once these sections have been determined, allow Davidson students and their dates to sit anywhere within the delineated student section.

4) Designate a final day for picking up tickets that would be convenient for both students and the Coliseum. Thus the Coliseum would have ample time to sell the remainder of a section that students had partially filled.

I hope that Dr. Scott and the Coliseum management will find these suggestions useful.

BILL WATSON
Davidson College

‘System’ Victim Finally Sees Light

Dear Editor:

I have not the ability of expression which a number of my fellow Davidsonians seem to possess. But I do have a large amount of pride in Davidson and an equal amount of concern for its future growth. And I do have a unique position of being able to view Davidson from “the outside.” For these reasons I have decided that I must contribute to the mix which will in the end hopefully build a better Davidson. Allow me this space to tell of an individual experience which will hopefully be of some aid in the current curriculum revision discussions.

For my freshman and sophomore years, I was probably as good a follower of “the system” as any of my colleagues. I cut only when absolutely necessary, studied my assigned lessons diligently, got my assigned papers done and proofread with time to spare, “browned” my share of professors and avoided hallHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and house bull sessions (which only subtracted from the time which I could more effectively use memorizing my parroted notes). I thought I had the secret. But then my bubble—my crazy, secure bubble—burst wide open. Somehow I had decided to spend my junior year in Germany. The success I had previously sought hit me square in the face without its incognito garb: and I saw at last the pseudo success that it actually was. Being a ‘system man,’ I have tasted the system of the German university and have seen how drab, how unstimulating, how utterly nonsensical the "other system" is. “The system” has robbed me of individual initiative, of the chance to seek what I believed, and of the time to pursue, and to think, and to discuss, and to act. I was robbed of time to set about studying our modern predicaments and attempting to do something about them, if even in a very small, perhaps insignificant way. No, time for that was in the future, after I had my degree, after successfully completing graduate school. Then my chance would come. But is the world waiting for me to complete my “formal education,” and could I ever really escape from my “system” after it had become my life for so many years? Many of my colleagues managed to form a compromise with “the system,” but, as a result, they sacrificed a much-needed grade-point average for grappling with the problems of society. But one must have that grade-point average to get into graduate school, after which he will have the position (by now being accepted as an authority) to express his ideas and be listened to. Therefore, our system goes forward—stagnating minds which will later be called on to lead our society. But why not progress? The Germans have a pretty good idea of how. They seem to wrestle with the problems of society and advance to their degrees at the same time. But how do they do it? How can they possibly be learning if the professor doesn't make sure through regular tests? They do it through maturity. The immature don't make it; they fall by the wayside. The mature, the ones who will eventually lead the immature, are offered the highest freedom to pursue their studies when and where and how they please. And they do pursue. But one says this academic freedom cannot exist on the American campus. Why just look at the multitudes who would take advantage of the newfound freedom to have a good time. The mature, however, will carry the load in any system in which they are placed. So why not give the student a system in which he can mature and then advance at his own mature pace?

WOODY FAULK
Marburg, W. Germany

New ‘Miscellany’ Offers ‘Bitter-Sweet' Literature

A Review By SAM DARBY
Staff Writer

The current number of the MISCELLANY is a bittersweet collection of literature, organized and presented plainly and tastefully. The introductory editorial says that the absence of a central theme prohibits any congruence of the diverse parts, and an editor can only present the pieces out of context or meaning—rather like a box of assorted chocolates. A reviewer is in the same position—he cannot criticize the magazine as a whole, but only select parts for commendation and construction.

Perhaps the most pleasantly surprising thing about this issue is the short story by a freshman, “Wilson Russell's Suicide.” A very sensitive piece about a boy's mistrust of himself, his friends, and finally his mental effort to rejoin the life he is leaving via a slit wrist. A very good piece of primitive fiction.

There are so many poems written by people our age which abound with offbeat similes (“upon four-legged forest clouds the cowboy-angel rides”). They exude a general frustration which is depressing. It is always delightful to find form and meter and rhyme in young poetry. “Vivaldi” carries an undercurrent of heavy rhythms much like classical Baroque music. The unnamed poem by William Farr, another “new” writer, has a light Renaissance grace and yet a tragic theme of wasted life. “Concerto for Two” paints two vivid pictures and then blends them into one movement of life and music. “Orsamavedas” reflects Hindu and Buddhist optimism and faith in the cycle of life.

What does one say about W. H. Jackson's poetry? Nothing, perhaps. He puts words together to get sounds and moods and images, but it is personal—not only to the poet, but also to the reader. “A Senior” points an accusing finger at some undefined intellect which dictates to us our idols and needs, dislikes and prejudices and makes our existences seem meaningless compared to the freedom of a pastoral life. Charles Vick's searching poem bewails the Gehenna of philistine South now dry of the culture and dignity it once was so proud of.

The three “non-literary” articles—Legette Blythe's on Thomas Wolfe (not the contemporary Tom Wolfe), the interview with Padraic Colum, and Rob William's lithograph are welcome in the Miscellany. They add scope and dignity to the work and pick up a pace which might otherwise be dull.

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

To John Compulsory, Part I

I MEAN SOMETIMES we just go along, accepting “things” as they come to us. I mean sometimes we don’t react to life and when we don't we've cheated someone, a friend, a parent, our lover, ourselves. You have to have an answer of some sort to what happens to you. You can’t just let things pass you by; at least not the important things, not the things that you really find always staring at you. These are the things that are always there unless you do something, anything. And you have to answer; it’s the only way.

A freshman at Davidson, man, I had arrived. This wasn't just one of those everyday sort of things. I was up there. I had experienced all the usual stuff and all the things that allowed for a kind of smug feeling, a feeling secured by the fact that I was entitled to a part in a relatively select group. It didn’t take any talking about; I knew there were plenty of others that had precisely the same type of feelings, but the point was: I was a part of something pretty fine, and Davidson was going to make it all much more of the type of life it had already been.

HOW CAN ANYONE tell a freshman who essentially has “had it made” that things will be any different in the future? Don’t get me wrong; I was able to rationalize right along with Lucy in “Peanuts” wondering why we can’t have “ups and ups and ups.” But I wasn’t quite ready for any “downs.” First of all I was making new friends at the rate of 275 or so every two or three days; I figure that was about how long it took one to make the cycle of introductions three or four times... . And man, like all the rest, I was ready for rush. I “knew” like everyone else that things could happen and go wrong, but they never had, and there was no reason to think that they would at this time. So it went. Unlucky freshmen today; you miss something by not having to know that glorious first week we experienced. I’m serious, throughout that first week Davidson was out of this world. We all pretty much decided where we wanted to pledge and although we knew something could happen... . Well, they were all really nice guys, and someone would get you through the “session.” He could make a speech in the session threatening to resign or something; you’d make it.

EVERYONE was encouraging. Why should you for a minute really believe there was much hurt involved in college? It was too new and too fast-moving. The whirl was great. Everyone complained about the endless dorm rush, and then secretly counted the notes from “the men.” We'd slip out to play flickerball secure in the notion that we knew what was going on and had things well under control. I mean most of us didn’t know too much about fraternities, but they seemed to be a pretty good way to continue the “in” way of life which most everyone at Davidson had known. Anyway, anything that seemed to go wrong always happened to others, those most of us were used to sympathizing with.

Then suddenly rush was over, and things were really in pretty good order for the beginning of classes.

THE WALK to pick up the bids was interesting because I knew what would be there; after all, the bid had been there all my life. I mean, sure, somebody wasn't going to get exactly what he wanted, but it would work out. There was a little knot in my stomach and a little suspense before I opened that brown envelope, but there wasn’t any real trepidation because I had confidence in myself and Davidson.

And then, just like I had been hit so hard in the pit of my stomach that I couldn't breathe, I realized that the bid I wanted wasn’t there. It didn’t matter about any others; “the bid” simply wasn’t in the envelope. I didn’t want to cry; I didn’t feel rejected; I wasn’t about to kill myself. I had just been crushed and felt like a child when he doesn't understand the punishment his master dishes out. I just did not understand. This wasn’t in the cards; it wasn’t supposed to happen to me. I felt just like you feel after you’ve gone after something with all you have in you knowing that will be enough and suddenly realize it wasn’t.

I CAN GO ON and on about how much the experience did for me in the way of helping me grow up and lots of other things that indirectly accrued to me from it. I’ll deal with some of these in columns. But these aren’t important in this instance. What is important is that Davidson College has no justification for fostering a system like the present fraternity system which can result in such real hurt as I felt. I'm not really speaking to fraternities; they are what they are. I’m speaking to you: students, faculty, administration, trustees, alumni; as long as only one person is hurt unnecessarily by a part of the college when something can be done about it then you are in the wrong.