POESY INUNDATES COLLEGE CAMPUS (See Page Six)

VOL. LVI

Davidsonian Gets Firsts In Hollins Competition

THE DAVIDSONIAN has won two first place awards in the 1967 Southeastern College Newspaper Competition sponsored by Hollins College and
eight leading daily newspapers in the region. The awards, announced Wednesday, are for news writing and best editorial page. It
was the second straight year that THE DAVIDSONIAN’s news writing has been cited. Last year’s paper also won honorable mention
for regular columns.

The basis for judgment in the competition was three consecutive issues submitted by each participating school. The Southeastern newspaper competition
is sponsored by Hollins and the newspapers to recognize accomplishment and to encourage careers in journalism.

Blue Sky Committee Report Due On May 19

Contents of the Blue Sky Committee’s recommendations will be revealed at open faculty meetings May 19 and 23, according to
the committee's chairman, Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. The two meetings will be “informational sessions,” he added. The faculty
will vote on the proposals in September and October.

“It’s ‘68 we’re aiming at,” Johnston said, when asked about rumors of faculty complaints about the uncertainty of planning without
knowledge of what the Blue Sky Committee was about to propose. Earlier in the year, Johnston attributed the small number
of course changes scheduled for next year to the pending action of the committee.

Johnston said that the committee may not have completed its work by May 19, but that they have “enough to
start with, anyway.” Johnston added that he did not know whether printed copies of the recommendations would be available to
the faculty before May 19, but indicated that the faculty would receive them before they were published in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Commenting on the secrecy in which the committee has operated thus far, the Dean said laconically, “We just don’t have
anything to say.” The Blue Sky Committee was appointed last fall to analyze all aspects of the college and make
recommendations.

Trustees To Act Next Weekend

The faculty voted unanimously Tuesday to accept the constitutional draft proposed by its Constitution Committee. Trustee approval of the faculty
constitution must now be given at a meeting of the Board of Trustees next weekend before the document can be
enacted.

The unanimous vote came as a surprise to Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, chairman of the Faculty Constitution Committee. His initial
pessimism about the chances of approval for any document that might be acceptable to the trustees had been overcome in
the months that the committee has spent drawing up the document. He had expected, however, that some opposition to the
proposed draft would be forthcoming from faculty members who disliked the submissive relationship implied in the preamble of the faculty
to the trustees. Such opposition failed to develop, after the objecting faculty members brought their proposals to the Constitution Committee
to be incorporated into the final draft before it went to the faculty for approval.

According to Brinkley, no substantive changes were made in the draft as a result of conferring with those faculty members.
He said that the changes agreed to by the committee were primarily alterations in style and syntax. Approval from the
faculty for the revised draft at the special meeting yesterday was given without dissent. Brinkley said that he thought the
unanimous vote was largely the result of a roll call vote.

An alternative to the new preamble was provided by the faculty in case the trustees found the present preamble objectionable.
The faculty voted to accept the preamble of the second draft of the constitution if the revised preamble, actually the
third preamble written by the constitution committee, would prevent trustee acceptance.

Brinkley is optimistic about the chances of passage by the Board of Trustees. Three trustees including the president, Walter Lingle,
aided in drafting the constitution, and President D. Grier Martin has agreed to help seek trustee acceptance of the draft.

In essence, the preamble recognizes the primary responsibility of the Board of Trustees in determining college policy. It then goes
on to designate the particular areas of faculty concern. The revised preamble states, “Legally and practically, the Board of Trustees
and the President of the college, as chief administrative officer, are responsible for defining the purpose and policies of the
college.

“The faculty, however, is particularly responsible for carrying out the purpose of the college ‘to teach students to think clearly
and accurately, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values and to communicate freely with others in the
realm of ideas.’

“The faculty is thus unavoidably obligated to serve in the formulation, enactment and implementation of educational policy.”

Administration Boosts Campus Club Proposal

The Campus Club will “almost without doubt” be given facilities by the college if it gains 40 members by mid-May,
administration sources said Wednesday. The facilities would be supplied on the same basis as the houses for fraternities, according to
the administration.

About $35,000 would be available for the group, with the assumption that housing fees paid by the group each year
would equal the amount that would be gained by investing the money. The Campus Club is designed to be a
group supplying social activities and eating facilities to students on the basis of an open membership.

Although no final decision has been made, the funds are available if the group can obtain the 40 members. The
40 must agree to remain members for one year and pay their fees during the year. Money for the project
would come from endowment funds.

Mustaches And Melodrama To Be Featured At The ‘d’

Davidson radicals and their dates will not be the only mustached villains and damsels in distress at next week's hungry
d. “Gold in the Hills” or “The Dead Sister's Secret” will be the featured entertainment at the hungry d during
its run from next Wednesday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m.

The “new nineteenth century melodrama” will be produced and acted by the Red and Black Masquers, the college drama club.
Dinner will be served on the last two nights of its run. On Wednesday and Thursday hors d’oeuvre and a
beverage will be served before the play begins. Curtain time for the melodrama on the first two nights will be
8:15. To allow for the buffet dinner on Friday and Saturday nights, the production will not begin until 8:30.

In between acts of the drama, “stupendous olio’s” will feature student comic and musical teams. The price for the dinner
show will be $2 per person. An exception will be made for Davidson students dating to the hungry d, however.
For them the price will be $3 per couple. On Wednesday and Thursday the price for anyone will be $1
per person. Reservations for the theater are required and must be made through the College Union. If reservations are requested
by telephone, the ticket must be picked up at the Union by 4 p.m. on the day of the performance.icy
and of those policies which directly and indirectly affect educational policy."

GOOD ART, CHEAP; BAD ART, CHEAPER today. The entire collection of watercolors, oils, etchings, and various other media were selected
by a committee headed by Rick Flinn and Sam Darby. These are a few of the student paintings sold at
the Fine Arts Festival auction this afternoon. Auctioneer and Assistant Director of the Union Tom Covington began the sale at
4 p.m.

Council Praises Faculty Constitution; Wants More Student Participation
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council unanimously endorsed faculty-student councils in certain areas, as proposed in Appendix II of the report of the
Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life. In another motion passed at the Monday night meeting, they gave the Student Body
Constitutional Revision Committee full power to make all revisions they deem necessary in revising the constitution. All proposals will be
subject to review by the Student Council. A two-thirds vote of the student body will be necessary for the revisions
to be adopted.

HEADS COURT—Ron Hunt, a rising senior from Boone and this year’s Honor Court recorder, has been elected chairman of the
court for the coming year. In other elections by the court, held this week, Mike Mooty, a rising senior from
Wilson, was named vice-chairman and Bill Williams, a rising junior from Savannah, Ga., was named recorder.

In a resolution which was presented to D. Grier Martin, President of Davidson College, the Council commended “the far-sighted steps
taken by the Faculty in creating student positions on previously all-Faculty committees, such as the Blue Sky Committee.” They added,
however, that they felt “a much fuller use of the student potential should be sought.” In order to accomplish this,
they urged the formation of “college committees” composed of faculty, administration, and students, and they endorsed in principle the proposals
made in Appendix II of the report of the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life.

In discussing the action taken by the Council, President Tom Earnhardt stated, “I feel that Davidson is ready for joint
committees in a number of areas. Students at Davidson are more than willing to serve the school in a responsible,
enthusiastic manner. Appendix II would allow much greater participation by students simply because student opinion would be represented on an
equal basis in areas of mutual concern.”

According to Mike Bates, the chairman of the Student Body Constitutional Revision Committee, which also approved the principle of Appendix
II, “The draft we prepare will certainly be affected by faculty-trustee action on this proposal. In areas of common concern,
it would seem highly advantageous to have a common government. I think the faculty could expect greater student support for
legislation coming out of such a council than for legislation coming out of a faculty committee.”

DAVIDSONIAN REPORT PORTRAYS ‘HAPPENING’ (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

Faculty Unanimously Votes Approval For Constitution

In other Student Council action, Peter Hobbie and Bill Watson announced that the faculty evaluation sheets will be distributed to
the professors in about two weeks. Several members were appointed to various Student Council committees: Social Council (independents): Sam Darby,
Leslie Brown, and Bill Graham; Freshman Court: Ken Tarleton, Sam Bradley, Tupper Morehead, Gary Peklo, John Allan, Dave Mensell, and
Tom Alison. Members of the Religious Life Committee are Mike Carroll; Fraternities, Clubs, Social Life: Mike Powell; State Student Legislature:
Johnny Roe, Fletcher Hartsell, and Paul Rothert. On the Elections Revision Committee are Charlie Perry, Sam Bradley, Joe Beard, John
Reisner, and Bruce Weihe; Student Opinion Committee: Chuck Green and Stagg Newman. Making up the U.N. Model Assembly Delegates are
John Reisner, Bill Schmickle, Bill Sossaman, Chuck Green, Peter Hobbie, Dave Ginn, Geoff Seamans, and Joe Kilpatrick; Gunroom Keeper: Grey
Pash.

Earnhardt said that all people who applied for the Student Recruiting and Educational Planning Committees would be accepted on a
voluntary basis.

Council Committee Plans Revamping
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

Total rewriting of the student body constitution is being planned by the Student Council Constitution Revision Committee, according to Mike
Bates, chairman of the committee. “We do not plan a simple correction or revision of the present constitution and by-laws,”
Bates said. “Instead, we are thinking in terms of more important changes.”

The committee endorsed a proposal for a combination of faculty-student councils Monday. The proposal, which was recommended by the Student
Life Subcommittee of the Blue Sky Committee, suggests that certain faculty committees be replaced with five councils. Indicating what direction
the new constitution would take, Bates said that the committee “hopes to overcome needless duplication and conflict of student effort
and in student organizations.”

Discussion in committee meetings has centered around the senate-executive committee concept of student government and the council plan. The senate
plan would place executive power in the hands of an executive committee composed of student body officers and heads of
student body organizations. The senate would be elected by the student body. A variation of the plan would have a
senate elected by organizations and an executive committee composed of the student body officers. The council concept would place a
single body at the highest level of student government. From this position, the activities of student organizations could be coordinated.
The council concept would vest executive power in a series of semi-autonomous committees which would be responsible to the council.

Bates characterized the choice between the two plans as “probably the most crucial decision we will make.” The constitution will
not be finished by the end of this year, according to Bates. At the earliest, a final draft could be
finished by October.

Covington said that the meeting next month was scheduled so that the administration could explain to the national leaders of
the fraternities the uniqueness of the Davidson social affiliate in comparison with the affiliate on other campuses. Asked about the
possible outgrowth of 100 percent bidding from the new plan, Covington replied that such bidding would be a step backward
for the Davidson fraternity system. Saying that the 12 fraternities were all very similar, he urged that the chapters strive
to achieve a unique image.

The committee has chosen three advisers, Dr. Thomas O. Pinkerton, associate professor of German; Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, assistant professor
of philosophy; and Hansford M. Epes, German instructor. Brinkley was chairman of the faculty's Constitution Committee. Members of the constitution
committee are Franklin Anderson, Bates, Ben Cannon, Bud Cousar, Fletcher Hartsell, Peter Hobbie, Mike Powell, and Bill Watson. Tom Earnhardt,
student body president, is an ex-officio member.
