Che Bavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

BiLL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1967

Good Start

It is doubtful that the newly-released Blue Sky report will make any seniors flunk this year just to come back
to see what a good education should be. The recommendations should, however, make Davidson much more attractive for incoming freshmen.
After waiting impatiently for so long, it is gratifying to see that the wait was worthwhile. The report contains few
radical new breakthroughs in the field of education, but it does recommend some things that are significantly beneficial both to
students and to the college.

Increased reliance upon the student’s own initiative will result in more students who are really students and not just free-riders
for four years of laziness and boredom. Hopefully, the new curriculum will be able to educate instead of just polish
the Davidson gentleman. Concern for the student as an individual has always been the liberal arts college’s point of defense
against the larger resources of the university. The recommendations of the Blue Sky Committee could make this claim more of
a reality than an unfulfilled promise.

There are innovations that could be made in the report. Among the faults of the report is its ambiguity about
grades. Area examinations are on a pass-fail basis, but individual courses will apparently retain the present grading system. The Yale
University faculty recently voted to replace numerical grading with a system under which students will be given one of four
designations for their work—fail, pass, high pass or honors. Derek Shearer, head of the Student Advisory Board that helped bring
about the change, said the new system “moves away from the pseudo-scientific claims of the numbers system... It should make
for an improved class atmosphere, for there will be no more quibbling about numbers. There would, I hope, be more
concern for the quality of a student’s work in terms of his own ability.”

One of the most forward-looking proposals made by the Blue Sky Committee is the Career/Service program. It is an excellent
way for the student to get his feet wet in the occupation about which he is thinking before it is
too late. The committee is quite correct in saying the educational nature of the program necessitates that its administration not
just be dumped in the lap of the present placement program. Because of the difficulty inherent in making the program
worthwhile for each individual, it is also necessary that it not be given to a professor as a part-time job.
It needs a full-time administrator to find the career and service opportunities that will be most beneficial to the student.

The Peace Corps has a working agreement with the New York State University College at Brockport whereby the student receives
summer training by the Peace Corps, serves some time abroad and receives credit from the college. This is an addition
to the Career/Service Program that should be considered. But the most important thing to consider is that the implementation of
the Blue Sky recommendations if and when it comes, must not be the final word. The recommendations go far, but
they do not reach the end of Davidson’s potential. Just one example is the committee’s own sub-committee report on student
life, the fate of which has not yet been announced. This by itself should be enough to keep the committee
blue-skying for a while longer.

A Limited View

Regardless of whether former Tar Heel governor Terry Sanford is really planning to make a bid for the seat now
held by Sen. Sam J. Ervin, Jr., rumors about the possibility have caused Ervin to demonstrate one of the old,
sad truisms about Southern politicians. Responding to a two-week-old story in a Fayetteville newspaper which said that Sanford was thinking
about entering the senatorial race, Ervin told a member of The Charlotte Observer Washington Bureau Wednesday that he is confident
that he could hold his seat.

Apparently one reason for Ervin’s confidence is his belief that he can easily refute Sanford’s complaints about the present Senate
make-up. The Fayetteville newspaper story quoted Sanford as saying, “There is no spokesman in the Senate from any state who
is working to make state government more effective.” Ervin’s rebuttal to this charge was, “I believe I can say without
fear of any successful contradiction that no member of the Senate has fought harder to preserve the powers of the
state within the contemplation of the Constitution than I have since I’ve been here.”

The importance of this exchange at the moment is not in the possibility of a senatorial bid by Sanford. Neither
is it meant to be found in the complacency of long-term Senators. The importance of Ervin’s remark is that in
one neat sentence he managed to verify the charge that all that many Southern politicians can think about in a
discussion of effective state government is the limited issue of states' rights. This lack of imagination is one reason why
the South traditionally has lacked effective state government.

Evading Issues

The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has finally opened hearings on the causes of last summer’s riots in American cities.
This inquiry deserves the most careful, in-depth search. Thoughtful citizens want to know the cause, and cure, of the riots
and destruction which suddenly flamed in Detroit, Newark and elsewhere. Were the riots spontaneous? Or were they precipitated by agitators
and militant activists? Or did they begin spontaneously and then were fanned into wider burning and shooting by agitators? Sen.
John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky sought vainly to amend the authorizing Senate resolution to include specific search into the “economic
and social” problems involved. But Chairman John McClellan of Arkansas says all aspects will be examined, “immediate and long-standing.”

It is the “long-standing” causes that need spreading on the records as a Senate investigation can so graphically do. How
many blacks in the ghettos despair of improving their lot but want effective integration, economic opportunity and American-style success? How
many, or how very few, are virulent with hatred for the white power structure? How many Communists are involved or
would seek involvement?

Who actually rioted in Detroit, where race relations and Negro opportunities were relatively good? Daniel P. Moynihan, director of the
Urban Studies Center at MIT and Harvard, says the rioting was carried forward largely by an “urban underclass.” In many
American cities this youthful class is composed of Negroes. In Europe, the underclass may be white; in India, coffee-colored. It
takes neglect to form such a class: unemployment, wages well below the norm, miserable housing, a welfare system that wrecks
family living, substandard schooling. Will the Senate investigations subcommittee discover that this is what America has allowed to happen in
many major cities? Or will it center its probe on Stokely Carmichael, Rap Brown and other activists whose inflammatory statements
are deplored by many Negroes?

A statistical portrait of the Negro, ordered by President Johnson after the riots, suggests that blacks are moving into the
middle-income brackets faster than previously supposed. But life certainly is not found to be improving in the ghettos. Americans today
have a sprawl of uncoordinated information about “nonviolence,” “black power,” “Christian leadership,” — about which agency is doing what in
the ghettos — about what the “new” Negro attitude is. The Senate subcommittee can do a tremendously enlightening job here
— if it will.

— The Christian Science Monitor

IN QUEENS ADDRESS

‘Time For Renewal’ Pike Claims

By BOB DUNHAM and FRANK ANDERSON

“Now is the time to renew the church — while there is still something to renew.” Episcopal Bishop James A.
Pike told a capacity audience at Queens College Saturday night. Pike charged the churches with “not saying it like it
is,” with being “less moral than the United States Senate,” and with “answering unasked questions.” Citing figures which showed an
inverse correlation between ethics and the amount of participation in churches, Pike criticized a concern with the image of the
church as respectable and conservative rather than as Christian.

Pike's attacks on the church and on its doctrines have prompted accusations of heresy and resulted eventually in his censure
by the Episcopal House of Bishops in October of last year. A lawyer who gave up his practice to become
a priest, he speaks slowly at first, without notes, with words coming only as he gestures. But once started he
becomes a fountain of surprising statistics, caustic comments and experiences to illustrate his points. Eager to have his audience respond
and open to changing his ideas even while speaking—he revised his view on the effect of teaching Victorian morality while
speaking Saturday night—the former bishop of California is a rather small man with graying black hair, who answers questions by
wandering from the subject before reaching his answers.

Explaining his ideas Saturday night, Pike criticized the church for a “judgmentalism of people and an insecurity more noticeable than
in non-church groups.” Emphasizing the urgency of renewal, Pike sketched the dismal results in England where the church has declined
rapidly in the midst of rising interest in religion. When he visited churches there, Pike said he found usually only
“the preacher, who

Dormitory Council Concept Blocks Unification: Powell

Dear Editor:

For seemingly endless months, the Constitution Revision Committee has been working hard to propose for the student body a new
constitution, one aim of which is to unify student government efforts on campus. We have tried exceptionally hard to keep
our proposed new government uncomplicated. Now, however, it seems that the Dormitory Council proposal is in the process of being
resurrected, and all our hopes for simplicity and streamlining appear to be doomed.

According to its proponents, the Dormitory Council has three objectives: to reduce damage in dorms; to provide for such programs
as open dorms; and to undertake dorm improvement studies. I agree with the desirability of these objectives; however, I contend
that existing organizations are capable of providing them. Advocates of the Dorm Council want to designate students on each hall
who are responsible for reporting violators of dormitory regulations. The violators would be tried by either special Dormitory Council courts
or the Regulations Court. The Regulations Court and the Investigations Committee are now charged with the responsibility for preventing major
damage to the dorms. They can fulfill the same functions, if they so desire, that are proposed for the Dormitory
Council. The answer to stoppingdorm damage lies not in creating hall policemen and eight-or-so new courts, but in the Investigations
Committee and the Regulations Court fulfilling their purposes. As a sidelight, it seems to me that the administration is going
to have to admit that a certain amount of dorm damage inevitably is going to occur each year. Major destruction
such as that in Richardson last year should be stopped. I'll agree; however, we already have the machinery to do
it. Why create more? Concerning the remaining objectives of the Dorm Council, open dorms and similar projects and dorm improvement
projects, I would ask why our present Student Council could not set up a committee within existing structures to act
in these areas. The Student Council represents everyone in the dorms; it can and should act for them. No new
body is needed. I suppose an infinite number of structured relationships could be created among Davidson's 1,000 students, but our
recent aims have been unification and streamlining. Why complicate the matter to the point of, in effect, having two separate
student governments on campus? The Dormitory Council is unnecessary and I'm afraid will prove to be extremely troublesome.

Mike Powell, ‘68
Davidson College

P. S. My opinions expressed in this letter do not necessarily represent the opinions of other members of the Constitution
Revision Committee.

Red Clay Reader Captures Spirit Of South’s Creativity

Red Clay Reader 4. Carleen Whisnant, editor, Southern Review, $3.00.

When William Faulkner was at the University of Virginia in the spring of 1957, somebody asked him if he might
have an explanation for the blossoming of Southern writing, that is, if there were any circumstances in the environment that
might explain the blossoming of a good number of fine writers. Faulkner answered typically: “I don't know. That's a literary
question and I would not undertake to answer it.” I might say that when that so-called blossoming of Southern writers
came along, it was at a time when nobody in the South had much money, they couldn't travel, and they
had to invent a world a little different from the one they lived in, and so they took to writing,
which is cheaper than—that is, a ream of paper and a pencil is cheaper than a railroad ticket.”

That in the time of countless numbers of flourishing and failing little magazines, of big New York publishing, of the
pervasive glare of the tube and the cacophony of Big WAYS, that in this time Red Clay Reader could be
in its fourth year of publication is fantastic. Conceived in that determined spirit of the Southerner without enough money to
buy a railroad ticket, Red Clay Reader now draws from all over the country, indeed, from the world (as it
reaches into Russia for poems by Arseny A. Tarkovsky). The fiction and poetry are uneven, but there is more of
it than ever. Established writers like Max Steel (now writer-in-residence at Chapel Hill) and Heather Ross Miller are found, along
with others making their first appearances. The graphics and photography are experimental and daring. More than half of the non-fiction
is devoted to W. J. Cash, and if you are still among those who think that Cash went to Mexico
and was subsequently 1) murdered by Nazi agents, or 2) decided to end his life because he was suffering from
an incurable brain tumor, or 3) was the victim of somebody's foul play because when he was found hung by
his necktie his feet were touching the floor, then read his wife’s account of what happened in March 1941. If
you are among those who think that everybody in Flat Rock thought Carl Sandburg was a real bastard, then read
Harry Golden's “Carl Sandburg’s Family.” If you think that Charlotte really is the end of nowhere, then read Red Clay
Reader and see what some remarkable folks at 2221 Westminster Place have done. It is a real achievement, and a
testament to what that indomitable Southern spirit can do out on the back porch (where Charleen Whisnant puts the Reader
together and stacks unusable manuscripts). It is remarkable, and anyone interested in new writing, particularly from the South, ought to
shell out the dirt cheap three dollars.

Short Notices: The bookstore now has Sir James G. Frazer’s The Golden Bough, the definitive work on myth, ritual, symbolism
and romance, in hardback edition. Randall Jarrell’s Poetry and the Age (Vintage Press) has also just arrived.

WILLIAM SMYTH gets paid for being there. Four paid choristers, required by act of Parliament, a few young men who
like to hang on to holy garments, one young woman who looks like she either lost her lover or had
been kicked in the face by a horse, and 12 old ladies of both sexes.” If the trend hasn't reached
Charlotte yet, Pike added, “it will at some time get here.”

“The scientific method has succeeded in our time, and I'm glad,” Pike said, “but it has brought the defeat of
the authority basis and the advent of the factual basis. The church had better find this out because this generation
is wise to it.” Advocating the use of empiricism as a basis for Christianity, the bishop said, “You can't tell
kids today, ‘Don't do this because the Bible says’... They just don't get it.” Explaining what he called the performance
gap in the mainline churches, Pike quoted statistics showing that the colleges and universities possessing the highest ratings had also
the weakest religious affiliation. Pike also cited his censure—which was passed without allowing him any defense upon the recommendation of
a committee containing three of his accusers—as immoral, and referred to the adoption of a due-process clause last September as
making the church as moral as the secular world. Replying to the criticism voiced in the censure, that he was
upsetting and dividing the church, he compared the church to a wounded patient, who cannot be helped without opening the
bandage and revealing the wound. But, he continued, “Only God is absolute. So even the decline or virtual extinction of
the church is not ultimately tragic.”

Pike tried to show what it means to “tell it like it is” when he preached the next morning at
Christ Church in Charlotte. Instead of interpreting the story of Jesus’ initial refusal to heal the Gentile woman's daughter as
a test of the woman's faith, the bishop portrayed Christ as one who had to grow out of an intense
racial prejudice in order to perform the act. It was this ability to grow that was characteristic of Jesus, Pike
insisted, and not omnipotence or omniscience. Pike paused before adding, “He was fully human, you know.” Jesus had used the
harshest possible term that a Jew could use to express contempt for a Gentile when he had called the woman
a dog, but it was her acceptance of the term, in order to have her daughter healed, that broke into
Jesus’ heart, he said.

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Bands Vs. Beavers

THE DAVIDSONIAN recently ran a feature story about the Gross National Product Rug Band. As a charter member of that
group, I feel that the attention given it was entirely out of proportion to the talent contained in the group.
It must be granted that the members of the group have a natural talent for grossness, but beyond this dubious
distinction, little can be said for their abilities. In fact, the group is not only gross, it also slumps on
occasion into a slightly sacrilegious posture. The Protestant tradition is mocked by the parody, “Rug of Ages,” and the glorious
heritage of the Truckers’ Inn is made light of by the slightly satirical “My Rug.” What I am trying to
say is that there are many worthwhile campus organizations, both potential and active, that deserve the attention which is currently
being paid to, of all things, a rug band. The Beaver Club and the Faculty Executive Committee are two such
organizations which immediately come to mind. Both organizations play roles on the campus about as vital as that played by
the Rug Band. The only difference is that the Faculty Executive Committee and the Beaver Club don’t do their fiddling
around with musical instruments. Nonetheless, enforcing the drinking rule and entertaining visiting athletic teams (whatever that implies) are about as
vital to the life of the campus as playing for a rug dedication at the Union or at a frat
club. But even the Faculty Executive Committee and the Beaver Club receive a certain amount of notice from the student
body. There are other deserving organizations which get none at all. For instance, Phil Jones is quite interested in organizing
a Davidson chapter of the Future Farmers of America. He even has a good project lined up: his idea is
to buy a piglet (i.e., baby pig), raise him to maturity in the Wildcat cage beside the Union (not to
be confused with the Wildcat Den beside the Hub), and then, at a gala banquet towards the end of the
school year, give him to the athletic department for use as a mascot, under the condition that the nickname of
Davidson athletic teams be changed from the “Wildcats” to the “Crimson Swine.” So far, response from the student body has
been pitiful, to say the least. Surely, someone out there in the wasteland of student apathy wants to spend his
spare time slopping a hog.

An equally deserving organization is “Response,” set up for those not involved in the YMCA “Stimulus” program. The founders of
this group, notably Cary White and Mike Powell, oppose all efforts to act on one's own initiative. Instead, they favor
passive response to the environment, preferably in a posture of slumber. Several program ideas have issued forth from the minds
of the founders, including such possibilities as a lesson on the making of doughnut holes to be given by the
grim baker, or a program on the elements of hamburger frying to be illustrated by Betty up at the What-a-Burger.

This by no means exhausts the list of campus organizations worthy of more attention from the press and the student
body. Tom Bellamy, for example, is attempting to get up a group of students willing to burn their Davidson College
ID cards in a public ceremony. I understand also that Billy Thebaut is working on forming an organization along the
lines of a “Campused Anonymous.” Such a society would provide a means by which a campused student could, when faced
with that stir-crazy feeling, talk to another student in a similar plight, in an attempt to retain sanity while under
the effects of this most cruel but not unusual punishment.
