$4. (Staff Photos by Weems) COOK UNCORKS JUMP SHOT BEFORE EMPTY SEATS AT GREENSBORO

Kittens Baker, Postma And Demoisey Converge Under Basket — TOM COOK — Chis Soil Sigs’ Perfect Record

The Point

DANGER LURKS OUTSIDE THE SOUTHERN CONFERENCE continued to play tougher outside competition this year because the aggregate non-conference results of the nine teams was a sad. No team had a winning season outside the league though West Virginia and William and Mary managed to break even. Other records range from Davidson’s 5-7 down to George Washington’s lousy 1-10. No wonder Babe McCarthy quit. Our own infamous leader, Lefty Driesell, pointed out recently in a fun-filled assembly that records look a lot better against teams like New Hampshire, Presbyterian and Georgia Southern, and that one of the reasons this season’s record was not up to par was the stiffer outside competition. Pursuing Lefty’s reasoning further, one can see that he is right. Among the tougher opponents the 'Cats faced during the Terry Holland and Fred Hetzel days were Carson-Newman, Mississippi College, Wofford (twice), Belmont Abbey and Erskine (twice). These little friends helped the 1961-62 edition post a 14-11 record. The next year most of these schools and Jacksonville University helped post a 20-7 year.

ONE OF THE PRICES a school pays when it goes big time is the loss of opponents who don’t want much money (and aren’t worth much anyway). Now to get a breather, you have to play in the conference or else bring in someone from so far away that their record isn’t well known. Hence the increase in Coliseum games and more outside losses.

DEDICATION

IF YOU EVER thought there were too many people on the floor of the Coliseum during our games there, you ought to see it during this tournament. Every sports writer who has a car is here and brought his grandmother too. For many of these guys, this is just another assignment, but there are certainly a bunch here who are on a busman’s holiday. But it really does a heart good to look over and see the publisher-editor-sports editor-business manager of a small West Virginia weekly paper which went to press Wednesday taking notes like his wife was holding the press waiting for his game report... next Wednesday.

Much has been said about poor VMI not participating in the tournament, but they have only themselves to blame. With the material they had, the fewer games they played the better their chances of winning.

THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK: “Prowess in competition no matter what the sport has always been admired in men. Athletic competition is an integral part of the life of any well-rounded institution. Winning is a source of pride for the students that comes from nowhere else. For the world outside often knows the school only by its teams. And this association is important for the student, for he will soon be an alumnus who will brag on the old days.” (Quips and Cranks, 1966)

Kappa Sig’s previously undefeated and undisputed league-leading basketballers were handed their first loss this week by a surging Sigma Chi squad, 48-35. The Machi attack was spearheaded by Joel Williamson who netted 27. Although they led by only three points, 35-32, at the end of the third quarter, the Machis held the Sigs to three points in the final stanza to ice the win. The loss tightened the IMAC race, putting the ATO’s in a tie for first place, with an 11-1 record. By virtue of their two wins, the Machis moved into undisputed third.

In other action this week, the Taus helped their own cause by crushing the SPE’s 87-43. Geoff Birkhead led the onslaught with 21, John Hanselman poured in 20, Bill Love and Rick Moore got 12 each, while Johnny Durham added 10. Fletcher Hartsell contributed a 20-point effort to the Sig Ep losing cause. The defeat rounded out a winless season for the SPE’s.

Earlier in the week the erratic Independents lost one to the Betes, 62-59, and the Chi’s downed the SAE’s by a 56-45 score. Tom Clayton led that effort with 16 points. Geordie Mueller and Williamson added 11 apiece, while Jeff Pflugner chipped in with 10. For the E’s, Ed Armfield sank 17 and K. D. Weeks netted 14. The loss dropped the E's into a tie with the Gams for fourth in the league.

Thinclads Face SC Indoor Meet

Six members of the Davidson College track team left today for the Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet to be held at the VMI field house in Lexington, Va., tomorrow. The ‘Cats will be represented by Barry St. Clair in the 880-yard run, Charles Cameron and Greg Cox in the 60-yard dash, Lou Hill and Cox in the broad jump and the triple jump, and Randy Randolph and Roane Cross in the shot put. Coach Heath Whittle said he believes Davidson's best events will be in the broad jump and the triple jump along with outstanding individual performances by Cox and Cross. Whittle commented, “I think William and Mary will win first place overall. West Virginia and VMI will both have strong teams.” Furman, Richmond, ECC and The Citadel will also participate. “VMI will have an advantage. Besides being in their own field house, they have been practicing since November, the end of the cross country season," Whittle added. The cindermen will open their outdoor slate with a triangular meet against Wofford College and High Point College March 18.

Keydets Swamp Finmen

Davidson's outmanned swimmers dropped their final meet to a tough VMI team here Monday, finishing up with a 1-9 season record. The finmen managed to chalk up three first-place finishes en route to the 67-37 defeat. The brightest spot amid the gloom for the ‘Cats was Eddie Beach, who pulled in two first-place finishes, winning the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard butterfly. Steve Barden grabbed the other win in the 200-yard breaststroke. Also turning in a fine performance was Joe Friebele, who finished second in the 50-yard freestyle and the 200-yard backstroke. Commenting on the match, Coach Tom Stevens remarked, “VMI is probably the best team we've faced all year." Although the Wildcats have posted only one victory this season, Stevens feels that the nine-man team has worked hard and done well against highly unfavorable odds. ‘We always have about four events that we can only use one man in, automatically forfeiting at least second and third place,’ he commented. The swimmers finish up the season with the Southern Conference meet at Greenville, N. C. starting Thursday and continuing through the finals Saturday. East Carolina is heavily favored, with West Virginia and VMI a tossup for second place. ‘We're looking forward to our best times in the tournament," remarked Stevens. Listed among those with good chances of placing in the conference meet was Beach, season high point man for the Wildcats despite missing two meets. Beach has good times in the 200-yard butterfly and 200-yard individual medley. Others with good chances are John Helm in the 100-yard butterfly.

In the other game of the week, the Phi Delts downed the Sigma Nus in another close one, 55-51. Ronnie Hunt led the Delts with 18, followed by John Fagg with 15 and Cliff Duke with 13. Toby Westmoreland, Tom Skinner, and Bill Hearn did the scoring for the Nus with 15, 12 and 10 points.

By DANNY WHITE Sports Writer

GREENSBORO—The Davidson Wildkittens edged past a surprisingly tough N.C. State frosh, 88-80, here Wednesday to become the first undefeated team in Davidson basketball history. The State frosh gave Davidson a rough fight in the first half and trailed by only one point, 41-40, at halftime. State then matched Davidson basket-for-basket early in the second half, before Jan Postma pumped in two jump shots to send Davidson out in front. The Wolflets were never able to come within striking distance of the ‘Kitten lead. Postma topped the scoring charts with 29 points, 17 of them coming in the first half. The 6-5 forward also grabbed nine rebounds for the ‘Kitten cause. ‘Jan did a great job for us,” said a jubilant Coach Terry Holland. “He carried us throughout the first half when Jerry (Kroll) was in foul trouble. He was really hot tonight.” Postma hit 12 of 20 field goal attempts and was five for five at the line. Doug Cook hit 20 points and garnered 13 rebounds for the ‘Kittens while Kroll scored 13. Randy Jones scored 11 points, while Fox Demoisey added nine. The win gives the ‘Kittens a 16-0 record for the season.Season, making them the only major undefeated athletic team in Davidson history. The ‘Kittens rolled to their fifteenth win of the year last Saturday night against The Citadel in Johnston Gym. The ‘Kittens bombed the Bullpups, 108-78, as all the bench played. Cook led Davidson with 27 points against The Citadel. Kroll followed with 25 points while Postma added 22. The ‘Kittens’ withering scoring barrage blasted The Citadel from the beginning of the game and held them in check throughout the night. Leading the Bullpups was forward Willie Taylor, who pumped in 36 points for the losers’ cause. The Citadel played without the services of two starters from the team which gave the ‘Kittens a rough fight in Charleston earlier this season. The ‘Kitten cagers honored Coaches Holland and Maj. Harold Fraley with a post-game trip to the showers after the State victory. It was a small price to pay for giving Davidson its most successful athletic team in years.

FURMAN FALLS AGAIN

Cats Seek Indian Scalps

After sending Furman back home to South Carolina yesterday afternoon, Davidson meets William and Mary tonight at 9 p.m. in the second game of the semifinal doubleheader of the Southern Conference Tournament at the Charlotte Coliseum. If Davidson has ever sought revenge against any team, the Indians of Coach Warren Mitchell are a prime target. The sting of W&M's 74-71 win three weeks ago still lingers in Wildcat minds.

O'NEILL GUNS FROM THE CORNER

First Half Saw ‘Cats Ahead, 23-22

Mentally ready for the first encounter, Lefty Driesell should have his Wildcats more than ready to try Mitchell's forces a second time. Yesterday in opening action, Furman employed a very disciplined offense during the first half, shooting only 15 times, but making eight. Davidson, which was forced to play Furman's game, shot 21 times, but the lid was on the hoop. Tom Youngdale and Wayne Huckel shackled with three fouls apiece beginning the period, the Paladins tried to isolate vulnerable Wildcats into one-on-one situations, but they were largely unsuccessful. Huckel led Davidson scoring with 17 while Knowles hit 15. Knowles ran his career total to 1007 points. He was the only Davidson player on the All-Southern Conference first team, but Huckel made second team honors and Mike O'Neill earned honorable mention.

Grapplers Close Year At Tourney

Stinging from a 24-7 setback received last Friday at the hands of an undefeated Citadel squad, Davidson's wrestling team departed Wednesday for the conference wrestling tournament in Morgantown, W. Va., confident of making a strong showing. The Citadel loss was only the second incurred over an eight-game slate by the Wildcat matmen, who finished their regular season with the best record compiled by a Davidson wrestling team since 1935. Captain Joe Buffington kept his personal mark unblemished in registering the ‘Cats only victory against the Bulldogs. The squad's only other points came as a result of draws earned by Kerry Keith and Colin Hudson. Keith, previously undefeated, dropped down a weight class and tangled with a returning conference champion. Ronnie Hunt, an IMAC wrestling champion, filled in at Keith's usual 177-pound class. Parker credited O'Hair with his finest effort of the season. In the heavyweight division, Bryan was decisioned by 3-2 in his match with Bobby Zoyd, the returning conference champion. Parker looked for Dean Cromartie to “bounce back right away,” after a lackluster performance. The Citadel rates as the toughest opponent in the tournament, but West Virginia and VMI, who handed the Wildcat grapplers their other defeat, will be formidable foes. East Carolina and William and Mary, while not having entire teams at the tournament, will furnish some outstanding individuals, Parker said.

FINISH PERFECT SEASON

Davidson’s freshman hoopsters became the first undefeated Wildcat basketball team in the school’s history by closing out their season with a victory over North Carolina State Wednesday night. The win brought the final record to a 16-0 mark, a fitting climax to a season of perfect basketball. Terry Holland, who coached the Wildkittens to their unblemished mark, had nothing but praise for his boys. “They deserve all the credit. Their tremendous individual pride on defense, their great job on both the defensive and offensive boards have combined to make them impossible to beat.” Everyone who has seen the freshmen play has been impressed by their speed and their fantastic shooting. “Everyone is good so it is hard to play a man to man against us. We handle the ball and shoot well enough that a zone will not work either,” Holland added. Varsity Coach Lefty Driesell called these frosh the best freshman team he has seen since he has been coaching here for seven years. All season long, the Wildkittens showed that they were a complete team, doing everything well. They averaged around 90 points and over 50 rebounds a game. Holland summed up the opinion held by many fans when he added that he has not seen a weakness in the team all year. Among their victims, the ‘Kittens counted strong teams from Wake Forest, South Carolina, Duke, and N.C. State. Wake had been ranked the number two freshman team in the nation in a pre-season poll. They fell twice to the win-hungry Wildkittens. Gardner Webb Junior College was ranked among the top junior college teams in the country during the season, but they fell easy prey also, as did a strong team from Brevard Junior College. Depth and balance are the secrets which have kept the freshmen on a winning trail. “We have four boys capable of 20 points and 10 rebounds every game,” said assistant coach Major Harold Fraley. They are Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, Jerry Kroll and Jan Postma. Before he broke his wrist after playing in 11 games, Maloy had a 21.9 scoring average and a 14.9 rebounding average. Playing a brand of basketball that pleased the fans and bewildered his opponents, he was a constant threat to score. After Maloy's injury, Cook proved to be the man to take up the scoring slack. Pouring in 30 points or more on several occasions, Cook raised his season average to nearly 22 points a game, helping the ‘Kittens to adjust to the loss of Maloy. Kroll and Postma each scored nearly 20 points each game. The freshman first team was a point producer that could not be topped. Playmaker Fox Demosiey's ball handling and passing set the stage for the freshmen scoring performances. The team adjusted smoothly to moving Kroll to the pivot, Demosiey to wing, and Randy Jones to the point after Maloy was hurt. This was the only major change in the attack all year. Holland cited Jones for special praise for his job of handling the point position at the end of the year. Other key substitutes were Davis Liles and Johnny Baker. “Team spirit and cooperation are on the highest possible level on this team. There is absolutely no selfishness. This has been another important factor in our ability to win,” added Fraley. Praising the frosh for not letting other teams rattle them, he pointed out that no opponent was ever able to change the Wildkittens’ style of play. The biggest disappointment that fans of the frosh suffered this season was the inability of scheduling a game against the UNC freshmen. Many observers felt that this would have been a legitimate contest for the best freshman team in the nation. But the game did not materialize and the Wildkittens have to let their perfect record stand as evidence of their ability. Both the Wake Forest and N.C. State freshmen posted wins over the Carolina frosh this season. To say that this freshman team offers great potential to the Wildcat varsity for the next few seasons would be to greatly understate the facts. For the first time since Holland was a senior and Dick Snyder a sophomore will the varsity have substantial talent in all three upper classes.