Students ‘Impressed’ With New Chambers

Student reaction to the renovation of Chambers Building was widely varied, but it reflected a general satisfaction and pleasure with
the work done. Senior Tom Peddicord responded quickly to the question. “I am very impressed,” he stated. “I didn't believe
that they could possibly finish the work on time. I like the lighting; the general appearance is pleasing; and I
am impressed with the creation of new space and use of old space.”

Jim Lee, a sophomore, reflected the general consensus that the change was “hard to get used to.” He added, “It
is now modern and functional. It is a very practical arrangement. It is not exactly a collegiate atmosphere, but I
like it.”

The fact that it was “a definite learning asset” was noted by another senior, Joe Friebele. Explaining his statement, Friebele
said, “The classes will be cooler, the lighting is better, and the soundproofing is a great idea.”

Unlike many Davidson College structures which have become outdated, Chambers Building was not torn down and rebuilt. There was no
need for such action, for as one construction foreman put it, the 40-year-old building was “built like a concrete battleship.”
According to college President D. Grier Martin, the decision to renovate rather than raze Chambers saved the college several million
dollars. The actual cost of the renovation will not be known until all work is completed, but a preliminary figure
of between 500 and 700 thousand dollars has been given.

The renovation project was financed by funds from the Ford Foundation Challenge Drive, now within 400 thousand dollars of completion.
In addition to Chambers Building, the college laundry and the Eumanean and Philanthropic Halls have also undergone major changes and
repairs. Grover Meetze, director of the college physical plant, coordinated the work of the twenty sub-contractors who worked on the
project. Toward the end of the summer, work continued around the clock.

The architects for the renovation were Lashmit, Brown, and Pollock, from Winston-Salem, and Barger Construction Co. of Mooresville served as
general contractor of the project.

Another aspect of improvement was noted by senior Bill Seigler. He noted that the pleasant interior appearance added to the
stylish exterior would be a “helpful drawing point” in attracting prospective students. One of his greatest satisfactions from the renovation
was “the removal of the squeaking floors.”

Sophomore Norris Frederick said that he felt the renovation helped in that the building “no longer looks like a chamber.”
He added that he is hopeful that “students will take care of the building so that the labor will have
not been wasted.”

There was only one trend of disappointment noticed. This sentiment was expressed by sophomore Tom Berseuder, who said, “I like
it, and it is classy, but it seems out of character. It doesn't blend in with the rest of the
school.” No matter what the feeling, however, on whether it fits the rest of the school, almost everyone agreed with
sophomore Woody Gleason who said, “It is definitely much more agreeable early in the morning to walk into the new
Chambers.”

Work on the building began in the spring of this year as workmen began to remove the old wooden floors
in some areas. Before exams began near the end of May, students began to speculate on the nature of the
changes to be made. The decision to restore the building forced several changes in procedure for the summer. The college,
which normally requires that all summer work be done on campus, was forced to direct students to take summer courses
at other approved institutions. During the summer, while workmen were busy installing new equipment, administration offices were moved to many
different areas. Workers will continue to add to the changes over the next few months. The entire building will eventually
be air-conditioned and contractors indicate this will be completed within the next month. The modernized building is to be unveiled
to alumni and friends on Homecoming, Oct. 14.

Phi, Eu Halls Get New First Floors

One phase of renovation on campus is still incomplete. Construction work continues to progress on the first floors of Eumanean
and Philanthropic Literary Halls. The buildings, which each have two seminar-type discussion classrooms, are being solidified and remodeled. When completed,
they will house the Humanities discussion groups and other seminar classes.

Phi and Eu, as the student body refers to the halls, are two of the oldest buildings on campus. For
many years they served as main classroom buildings. The two buildings serve today as meeting places for the Philanthropic and
Eumanean literary societies, as they have for over 100 years. During the past years, many noted authors and critics have
lectured in them. The old and stylish upper floors are not being altered by the construction. Downstairs, however, the floors
have been removed, the basements have been filled with stone to give a firmer foundation, and new cement floors have
been laid. The fireplaces will remain, but the old heating system will be replaced by a new heating and cooling
system. A large seminar table will be added to each discussion room, and the seats will be replaced by vinyl-covered
captain's chairs.

The renovation of Chambers Building has effected some major changes in classrooms and departmental structure. The most significant change...

Stories By Bob Dunham
News EditorPhotos By Earl Lawrimore

Associate Director News Bureau is in the psychology department. All classrooms and offices in that section have been moved to
the newly-remodeled north basement. The area of the old psychology laboratory has been completely redone to include many new facilities.
When air conditioning is completed in the basement, students will be able to use the two large classrooms in the
basement. Aside from these rooms, many offices and research rooms have been built. One innovation which will enhance laboratory experiments
is the introduction of two one-way-vision rooms. The rooms, which are separated by one-way mirrors, will enable students to observe
techniques in testing and recreation in human beings. Until the renovation, there had been no such facilities.

A new statistics lab has been added. When all of the calculating machinery has been moved in, the room will
be used for computation of experimental results and other statistical work.

RENOVATION IN PROGRESS
Workmen Scramble to Complete Chambers Before Opening of School

New Psychology Labs, Amphitheater Rooms

Five lab rooms have been built to allow more students and faculty experimentation. There is one general classroom lab, which
will be used by general psychology classes, and four private research rooms, which will be used by advanced students and
faculty. A more extensive shop has been added to facilitate the construction of equipment needed in the experiments. A double
room for keeping the animals used in experiments has also been built. Psychology department chairman William G. Workman said that
he was “highly pleased" with the entire renovation. He said that the new arrangement of the psychology classrooms will enable
the department to offer the students more in the way of individual research.

There was only one construction mistake which may cause a few problems once experimentation begins. In the room provided for
the animal colonies, the workmen put tile flooring over the necessary drainage system.

In addition to the usual changes which were made in every classroom, there were some very major changes in a
few. The principal examples are the economics classrooms. In response to a request from the economics department, the classrooms for
that section were remodeled into amphitheater style. Seats are arranged in semi-circular tiers. The department requested this type of classroom
in order to facilitate demonstrations in the classes. Whereas in the old classrooms students had difficulty viewing the demonstrations, in
the new arrangement every student has clear visibility. This visibility improvement was scorned by one student who noticed, “The professor
can now see each student clearly, definitely eliminating any ideas of inattention.”

Also undergoing a change were several language classrooms, which were transformed into seminar rooms. A large table replaces the desks,
allowing easier verbal discussion.

Several departments have been gathered in clusters as a result of the construction. The psychology department will now hold classes
in the basement of Chambers, in the redone area of the old psychology lab. The Bible department has moved entirely
to the third floor, and the math department has moved its classrooms to Jackson Court. In all of the classrooms,
the desks were removed, repaired, and refinished. This saved the additional costs which new desks would have forced. The addition
of air conditioning has also provided new classrooms, which had previously been used as storage areas due to a lack
of ventilation. In one further change, the old accounting room on the third floor was moved to the accounting laboratory,
and the old room was converted into an audio-visual room. If in the future, a new library is built, the
audio-visual facilities will be moved into the facility.

Switchboard Facilitates Campus Communications

As part of the “new look” in Chambers Building, a telephone switchboard connecting faculty and administration offices has been installed.
The switchboard, which is located in the alumni office on the first floor, serves all faculty, administration, and student activity
offices. According to Robert Stephenson, assistant business manager of the college, the new switchboard has enabled all faculty offices to
have a phone installed at a cost less than that of separate phone lines. Citing the modernity of the switchboard
system, Stephenson added that the switchboard made it easier for outside callers to contact faculty members and administration officials.

The first phones were connected in early September, as staff members began to resume their work in Chambers. Phones were
gradually phased in in separate parts of the building. Stephenson pointed out that Southern Bell Telephone Co. installed the lines
with only minor problems. Adjustment came smoothly and only minor mix-ups were reported. The college has employed Mrs. Harmon Gillespie
to be in charge of the switchboard. Mrs. Gillespie was formerly the assistant director of student housing. The switchboard is
in operation on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., and on a half-day schedule on Saturday. After the switchboard
is closed in the evening, calls are routed to the Davidson Student Union.

Business Manager Robert Currie said that the new system does not eliminate the possibility of a future system which would
include student dormitory phones. He added, however, that such an innovation would involve quite an elaborate system, and could only
be installed during a future dormitory renovation project.

THE MAZE
Technician Connects Switchboard Lines
