TERI JIMISON Pi Kappa Phi
MARIANNE TAYLOR Alpha Tau Omega
BONNIE TYLER Phi Gamma Delta

Candidates For ensrsriaaatadl Gueee

DIANE BARRY Sigma Phi Epsilon
ALLISON WEBB Beta Theta Pi
SALLY HUNTER Kappa Alpha

Anna Russell Lampoons Homecoming — that annual fall festival of strong drink and weak women — returned to the Davidson campus this afternoon. Anna Russell's concert began the weekend Friday night. The Artist Series brought Miss Russell back for her third appearance at Davidson. Following the concert, the College Union offers a combo party with the “Sounds of Soul." “‘The Three D's" will perform at the midnight blanket concert in the Morrison Room. The three-man folk group opened the Union Coffee House season last year. The Union's Friday night schedule will end with coffee and donuts followed by a horror movie.

The Alumni Luncheon will be held on the Union lawn at noon. Davidson plays Presbyterian College at 2 p.m. Following the game, Head Coach Homer Smith will discuss the contest at an informal gathering in the Morrison Room. The Union will serve a steak supper beginning at 5:30. Saturday night's concert features The Platters making a return visit to Davidson. The flick ‘‘Rio Conchos" follows the concert in the Morrison Room.

— DOROTHY LONG Sigma Nu

Galbraith Articles Open Year’s Stimulus Program

The year's first round of Stimulus meetings used as their topic three Atlantic magazine articles by John Kenneth Galbraith Monday night. The articles were on the relationship between aesthetics and efficiency in modern societies.

“The meetings went really well,” said Stimulus Chairman Mike Bates, who heads the YMCA committee responsible for the program. He praised the nine Group Leaders, whose responsibility it is to direct the activities of their groups. Each of the nine groups is composed of five members of the college faculty or administration and twelve students. The groups meet in fraternity houses to discuss literature, tapes of speeches and musical performances, films or other matters of interest.

All of this year's upperclassmen were invited to apply to participate in the program. At the beginning of the year, 108 applicants were selected, including four Richardson Scholars, and faculty members were invited to take part. All participants agreed to attend every meeting and do the required reading as decided by the individual groups.

The three articles by Galbraith were based on his book The New Industrial State. Bates said that the conclusion of the book was that “we have to subordinate technological values to aesthetic ones." He continued that this conclusion meant the substitution of beauty for efficiency.

Of the Group Leaders, Bates said, “These fellows are all excellent for the job. Their own initiative and dependability will greatly affect the activity of their groups.” The nine are Tom Hart, Paul Schneider, John Warren, George Purvis, Bobby Lane, Frank Fleming, Pete Gaskell, George Shaw, and Bill Schmickle. Dr. Louise Nelson of the Davidson Economics Department is serving as advisor to the program. “She has contributed tremendously to the program," said Bates.

“The fraternities are supporting the program in a very important way,” Bates continued. “They have allowed us to hold many of this year's meetings in their houses.”

Student Council Hears Bill Of Rights Proposal

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

A proposal to draw up a student bill of rights was presented to the Student Council Tuesday night by Fletcher Hartsell, second vice president. Hartsell was acting in behalf of the council budget.

Council's Proposal and high prices as the causes of the complaints he had heard. Junior Joe Murphy reported that his investigation of the possibility of obtaining more vending machines for the dormitories had been unsuccessful, although he said he would talk to Robert A. Currie, college business manager and treasurer, about the situation. Earnhardt said the Council received its requested budget in its entirety. The Council received $1,650.from the student activities fee and $900 directly from the college. The $2,550 budget represents an increase from last year's budget. The participants are guests of the fraternity for supper. The members of Stimulus greatly appreciate the fraternity-wide support.” Bates also expressed his appreciation of the support given “by the faculty and administration.”

Opera To Start Weekend

Folksinger Jake Holmes returns to Davidson for the Saturday night blanket concert. He appeared last year for a week in the “Hungry I” series. Holmes is currently rehearsing for David Merrick's ‘Facade.’ Entertainment will be “not just continuous, but continuously worthwhile,” said Shaw Smith, director of the College Union.

RITCHIE RHEA
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Freshman Council Elects Engstrom As New President

Steve Engstrom was named president of the Freshman Council at the meeting held on Monday. Other officers elected were Mike Cole, secretary-treasurer; Herb Clegg, Social Council representative; and Jule Young, Union Board representative. The 22-man council voted for their executive board after a brief discussion following the nominations.

JEANNIE COTTINGHAM
Sigma Chi

BARBARA BAKER
Pi Kappa Alpha

TANIA COX
Kappa Sigma

HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND!!

NORTON & SON
DAVIDSON, N.C.

The Davidsonian
October 13, 1967
Page Three

SSOC Viet Rally Studies Tactics

“I expected to find a mass of beards and sandals, but I found a rather diverse group of people,” commented junior John Pancake. Pancake was referring to the Durham Peace Rally, sponsored by the Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC) on Oct. 6 and 7. Davidson was represented by Geoff Seamans, president of the Davidson SSOC chapter, Pancake, seniors Bill Barnett, J.P. Shrader, and Jack Woodall, and juniors Jim Curtis and Bill Hearn.

The rally was basically a workshop, offering classes on canvassing, draft counseling, and organization of vigils. “For instance, I went on a half-hour practice canvass, and out of the five people we contacted, three had pretty eloquent reasons for opposing the war. The other two would not see us,” said Seamans. “These were working-class people. However, with the given electoral process in the United States, I'm skeptical of what can be done besides electing a Hawk Republican,” Seamans said.

“While what we are doing might not have too much of an effect on the present war, I do believe it is important,” said Pancake. “I think there will be more situations like Vietnam, and I believe that what is being done now will make it easier for the United States to avoid another costly war,” he said.

Mr. W
The "W" is silent. If somebody tries to tell you that all slacks are cut like Wrangler, resist. Hold out for no-flab trimness. And don't settle for anything that doesn’t have Wranglok®, the wrinkle-fighting finish. It means neatness without ironing. These Hondo® slacks (the Saturday night jeans) of wide-wale corduroy come in putty and charred colors. Oxford b.d. shirt in non-iron $5.00. And everything wears better because there's KODEL® in it, a muscle blend of 50% Kodel Polyester/50% combed cotton.

BELK’S — MOORESVILLE
ROUND-UP — STATESVILLE
SMITHEY’S — STATESVILLE

THE FUN BEGINS AT ATTIE’S
“just up the road”

THE ELK'S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas

Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.

Davidsonians and Guests! Congratulations and best wishes. Have an exciting Homecoming weekend.

Natural Shoulder Shops

A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations. Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course.

THE ELK’S
Now Operated Under New Management

THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN—126 S. TRYON ST.
COTSWOLD — WEST MALL
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER