Page Four November 3, 1967 The Davidsonian

POOL OPEN TO STUDENTS

The Athletic Department has opened the swimming pool at the gym for student use at various times during the week.
It is open and lifeguards are provided on Mondays and Wednesdays from 2 to 4 and on Thursday nights from
7 to 9. (Staff Photo by Fonvielle).

New Rule Proposed To Deal With Fires

By JIM GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

A stronger rule against dormitory fires was recommended Wednesday by the faculty Student Life Committee. The faculty committee asked that
the student body regulations be revised to make the penalty for intentionally setting a dorm fire suspension for a semester
or longer.

“The danger of fire should be taken from the realm of a joke and treated as a serious offense,” said
Richard C. Burts, dean of students.

The proposal now goes to the Student Council, which will act on the matter at its Monday meeting. If the
council gives its approval, the recommendation will be explained to the student body in chapel Nov. 13. It would then
be up for a student body vote the following week, on Nov. 20.

Student Council approval of the proposal is expected. Student Body President Tom Earnhardt said, “We are one of a very
few schools having such lax rules about fire.” Earnhardt said, “There are too many stories about students dying in ‘fireproof’
dormitories.”

“Under this new rule, dorm fires will not be tolerated,” he said.

Secor To Return For War Debate

Former Davidson professor Philip B. Secor will return to the campus Monday, Nov. 20 to participate in the conference on
war which will be held here that week, according to Student Council President Tom Earnhardt. Earnhardt added, though, that the
exact date was tentative.

Secor, who taught political science here, will hold an Open End which will center around the diplomatic and political aspects
of whether war is necessary or not. Earnhardt said Secor was “delighted and quite honored” to receive the invitation when
he was called Tuesday.

The Open End will be part of a 2-week conference called “Why War?” The programs are being sponsored by the
Union and the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and the YMCA.

Group Asks Vacation Extension

By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

The Academic Scheduling Committee, now an advisory group, has recommended that the Christmas holidays be extended one day through Jan.
9. This recommendation will now be passed on to the faculty Executive Committee, according to Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of
the faculty. The Executive Committee sets the agenda for the faculty meetings, and thus any business must pass through its
hands first, Johnston said.

“It makes no difference to me personally. It’s all right to change it (the date) if there is enough time
in the schedule.”

It is up to President D. Grier Martin to call a meeting of the Executive Committee. Martin has been out
of town this week. Bill Bondurant, special assistant to the President, said that no date had been set for the
executive meeting, but that it will probably be before the next faculty meeting on November 14.

Dr. Joseph T. Drake, chairman of the advisory Academic Scheduling Committee, said that coming back on Jan. 2 was traditional.
The committee made its recommendation, Drake said, with the idea that it is “better not to get the students back
here the day after the night before.” Drake said that there would be enough days to meet the requirements of
the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities as to semester length.

Hight Notes Many Changes In Graduate Record Exams

Citing the notable changes in some of the achievement tests of the Graduate Record Examination administered last Saturday to Davidson
seniors, Dr. William Hight expressed some concern about student scores.

Hight, director of the student counseling service, referred specifically to the history and English achievement tests. “The noticeable change in
the history test was the inclusion for the first time of oriental history,” Hight said. “Therefore, unless the student in
history had done personal reading on the East, he probably had a hard time with the test.”

Hight noted that past tests had included occasional references to oriental history but mainly as it relates to the United
States. According to him, this year’s test included numerous references to specific dynasties and particular events.

“The history test trend seems to be developing more and more in correspondence to the tide of current affairs,” Hight
added. “Since interest today is focused on the East, soHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and
punctuation:

---

"was the test." The English achievement test also had some major changes. According to Hight, there was much more emphasis
placed on American literature than in past tests. The English student had to be very familiar with individual styles within
given periods, Hight said, in order to complete the identifications of various passages. He said that the actual test was
much more difficult than the sample tests. A total of 92 seniors took the first administration of the test this
year. This represents, according to Hight, a big increase over past years. The test, which is the national test program
which may be used as a criterion for admission to graduate school, is administered four times per school year. The
next test will be administered on Dec. 9. Registrations must be completed by Nov. 21. The Student Counseling offices maintain
files of past tests and sample questions for use by seniors who wish to prepare for the tests.

Freshman Council Wants More Phones, Machines
By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

More telephones and vending machines, a freshman party, and a freshman night at the Hungry I—with Queens dates, were all
discussed at the Freshman Council meeting Monday night. Steve Engstrom, president of the Freshman Council, began by congratulating the Freshman
Parents’ Day Committee for its job last Saturday. A committee is being organized to evaluate the success of Parents’ Day.
Another committee will be formed to evaluate the freshman orientation period. Three standing committees were proposed: a Social Committee, an
Appropriations Committee, and a Publicity Committee. The appropriations committee will determine the use of the $250 in the freshman treasury.
The installation of more telephones so that each floor of the freshmen dorms will have one is a definite possibility.
The council has contacted Southern Bell Telephone Company. Coke, candy, coffee, and milk machines may be put on the first
floors of the freshman dorms if the council can get support for this project. A switch to canned drinks instead
of the paper cup method was suggested. A freshman party on the upcoming concert weekend, Nov. 11, was rejected but
an "off-weekend" freshman party was approved. Keith Onsdorff is exploring the possibility of installing a change machine in each freshman
dorm.

Assistant Dean Claims ‘Successful’ Parents Day
By ROBERT PYEATT
Assistant Managing Editor

Parents Day last week was rated as a tremendous success by Assistant Dean of Students Jim Terry. An array of
impromptu campus signs came down and 400 solicitous parents returned home Saturday, reassured that their sons are succeeding at Davidson.
The anxious mothers and fathers thronged such events as the special faculty reception and the ROTC reception. The parents and
hometown girlfriends also attended Open House in the boys’ rooms. "The only cats worth anything are the cats who take
chances. Sometimes I play things I never heard myself." One highlight of the day was the Saturday afternoon soccer game
with Pembroke. The Wildcats won 5-3, thrilling many parents. Friday afternoon parents saw the freshman footballers defeat Carolina Military Academy,
27-0. Danish explorer Jens Bjerre's film and lecture on Red China Friday evening drew many parents to Hodson Hall. Assistant
Dean of Students Jim Terry described the day as a tremendous success. “Parents Days like this one make us want
to continue them,” Terry said.

Group Suggests 23-Man Senate

A Senate membership of 23 will be proposed by the Constitution Revision Committee when it reports to the Student Council,
according to Mike Bates, chairman of the group. The proposal represents a decrease of nine members from the previously-set total
of 32. However, the membership of 23 still represents an increase of eight over present Student Council membership. The Constitution
Revision Committee was appointed by the Student Council last April to rewrite the Student-Body Constitution. Originally consisting of eight members,
the committee has added two freshmen, Dick Allison and Harrison Higgins, and has put a special subcommittee to work on
a bill of rights. To parallel its cut in Senate membership, the group decided to recommend a 5-member executive committee
instead of a 7-member body previously agreed upon. Under the current version of the draft, the constitution would provide for
additional non-voting Senate members which the Senate itself could elect.

"Don't keep forever on the public road, going only where others have gone. Leave the beaten track occasionally and dive
into the woods. You'll be certain to find something you have never seen before."
--Alexander Graham Bell

To communicate is the beginning of understanding.
