Che BAavidsontan

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief
BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1967

PAGE TWO

A Guiding Hand

A recent issue of “Moderator” points out in its own rather oversimplified style the development of a more personalized “live
and let live” ethic on the nation’s campuses. Such an ethic stems first from the feeling on the part of
students that they have certain rights to engage in whatever activities they wish “as long as they do so privately
and peacefully.” Thus as long as no one is hurt and no one’s rights are infringed upon, everyone, especially the
college administration, should live and let live.

This is not a new idea, but today the concept of non-interference by a college or university in the private
lives of its students is becoming a well-publicized issue. Students are demanding greater freedom in their use of drugs, their
sexual relationships, and their academic requirements. In the places where these demands are being met, the college or university has
all but disengaged itself from any responsibility for a student’s activities outside the curriculum.

At the other extreme are colleges practicing the philosophy of in loco parentis, that is, that the college acts with
an authority exercised in the place of parents. Such a college is Davidson. In subscribing to this idea, Davidson has
maintained regulations punishing drinking, having women in the dorms, gambling and other offenses despite traditional opposition from various student groups.

The inherent fallacies in the in loco parentis argument have been aptly demonstrated. The college may not assume the power
to remove a student from Davidson for such an offense as drinking any more than a parent can be allowed
to disown a child if he is found under the influence of alcohol. And who can say if Davidson is
following the true wishes of a student’s parents by suspending him or otherwise punishing him severely? In other words, the
college is assuming a very questionable base of authority for many of its present rules.

Various alternatives have been offered to replace the idea. The fiduciary role of a college toward students is one such
alternative. In this relationship, the college acts for the benefit of its students once the confidence or interest of the
student has been placed with the college. Such a position on the part of the college, however, should not imply
that the college has the right to impose its own peculiar patterns of conduct on the student. Instead, it has
a responsibility to protect the student's interests from being infringed upon by others. It also has the responsibility of articulating
its own positions through its statement of purpose and its curricular and extra-curricular program.

The fiduciary concept, therefore, emphasizes guidance but not force. The college has a responsibility to make clear its position on
the drinking issue, and it should protect students from the abuse of drinking, but it should not assume the right
of enforcing a rigid moral code. If the college is so sure of itself in its concepts of morality, why
does it not extend this into the academic realm? Before each course, it could distribute copies of what it considers
to be the answers to everything and thus eliminate intellectual fluctuation from its norm also.

In other words, if the college is to emphasize the traditional liberal approach to academics, its rules on student conduct
should agree with this concept. The fiduciary role of the college proves its concern without directly assuming the student’s inability
to act responsibly. It alone can promote the kind of atmosphere at Davidson in which the student may look upon
the college's rules as a means of his protection rather than his repression.

Survival Training

The faculty made the right decision Tuesday in deciding to delay its final decision on the fate of ROTC until
the Professor of Military Science Col. Fredrick W. Outlaw could be present to defend his program.

In the light of his honest attempts to improve the ROTC program here over the past several years, it was
the only fair thing to do. There is a definite moral problem for a Christian school that supports an ROTC
program, the end goal of which is teaching men to kill or teaching men to aid the killing. But, looking
at the problem from a safe, cowardly, rationalized viewpoint, the program is valuable for helping students avoid the long arms
of their draft boards and giving them the chance to kill as officers instead of as privates.

The issue then is not one of throwing ROTC off the campus but is instead one of whether the program
should be compulsory and whether it should be given academic credit. The issue of the desirability of compulsory participation has
been rather well settled by the Blue Sky recommendation that no course should be compulsory. Those familiar with the hand-out
grading system of the program can give the best evidence that it certainly does not deserve the sort of credit
that is given for academic courses here.

The best justification that can be given for maintaining either of these aspects of the present program is the argument
that the army cannot maintain its program unless it can offer these two incentives, i.e. that one must take the
course and that academic credit is given. On the other hand, examples can be cited of schools that do not
require participation and which still have ROTC programs. While we do not know of any schools which maintain the course
and do not give academic credit, there are many examples of strong extra-curricular programs that are not able to offer
any academic or monetary incentive to attract participation.

Therefore, we believe that ROTC could survive voluntary participation, and it could survive extra-curricular status. Both conditions would be more
appropriate to the aims and benefits of the program and of the college.

Ask And Get

One of the things that is becoming apparent about the Blue Sky Committee recommendations is that their implementation may well
mean little more than a calendar readjustment for some departments. This is not necessarily a bad thing. In some areas
little would be gained by throwing out the old program completely in favor of a new one. But it is
especially in these cases that faculty members are going to have to face up to the fact that some of
their courses just are not being taught in a way that is consistent with the ideals of a Blue Sky
curriculum.

This does not mean that the courses are just boring. Some of the courses do fall into this category, and
they should be revitalized. If a student is only to be taking two or three courses per term, it is
a waste of everybody’s time for him to not be stimulated to use this increased time on his academic work.
Students will simply not do this if the course is boring. But neither will they work hard if little is
demanded of them. There are few courses now in which a student can get a high grade without hard work
and real interest.

On the other hand, there are a number of courses for which a “gentleman’s ‘C’” will be given without the
student having to contribute much to the class at all. Some Sigma Chi’s last year made up a “Who’s Nothing
Schedule” to commemorate the tapping ceremony for this worthy Davidson honorary. The complete four-year schedule that was produced could have
graduated a student with a maximum of about five hours work outside class each week.

It is very desirable for students to have the time to attend extra-curricular lectures, concerts, etc. It is desirable for
them to have the time to shoot basketball down at the gym, to talk with one another, to just be
alone and think. But it is only reasonable to expect that academic subjects should take some time, time that could
be gladly spent on an interesting course.

Professors argue that it is wrong to put the blame on them for not making their courses more demanding because
they say students are not willing to do the work. The answer to this, of course, is simply that few
people are going to take an interest in something that does not expect them to be interested in it. If
a faculty member does little more each year than just dust off his old notebook, he can hardly expect anyone
to be really interested in his drivel. And if he demands nothing of students, that is just what he can
expect to get in many cases.

Bringing Good Tidings

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

‘Why War?’ Criticism Not Just, Sterrett Says

Dear Editor,

The criticism leveled against B. A. Aiken and the “Why War?” program in general is most unfair. To begin with,
many persons do not understand the nature of the program which they criticize. There are on campus various individuals and
groups which have some reservations as to the practicality and the moral validity of war in modern times. The “Why
War?” program has sought to act as a clearing house by combining separate ideas into a unified program. As such,
it has four goals.

First, it seeks to explore the nature of modern warfare through lectures and discussions on thermonuclear, chemical, and biological warfare.
Secondly, it seeks to explore aspects of war other than military, i.e., the economics and politics of war and peace.
Third, it attempts to explore moral and practical alternatives to war and to ask whether such alternatives are feasible. Fourth,
it seeks both to promote dialogue on alternatives to war and to raise questions for individuals to think about in
regard to their personal beliefs.

Aiken has acted as chairman of the planning committee. By no means are the ideas in the program his alone.

Army Ed. Note: The following is an editorial column written for the Collegiate Press Service by Tran Van Dinh, Washington
correspondent for the “Saigon Post.”

By TRAN VAN DINH
Collegiate Press Service

WASHINGTON, D. C. — The “Saigon Post” of Oct. 21 printed a letter written by a Vietnamese citizen to U.S.
Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker. The letter reads:

“Dear Ambassador Bunker,

“On several occasions I have written Your Excellency on my case about the accrued rentals of the Capitol Hotel located
at 107-A Dong Khanh Boulevard, Cholon (Chinese section of Saigon). And on each case, your aides merely give me the
assurances that theappropriate office will be contacted for action. However, these promises, up to this writing, have remained mere words
to the disadvantage and hardship of my family.”

“USMACV (United States Military Assistance Command, Vietnam) has been using my hotel for several years but has withheld the payment
of my rentals notwithstanding the Vietnamese Supreme Court ruling No. 992/PLS dated May 25, 1966, proclaiming that the undersigned is
the owner, manager, and has the right to collect all rentals due on the building. For an unknown reason, however,
USMACV has refused to pay the secured rentals including those for the ground and first floors (Lease No. USARV, E-933-66).”

“Such an attitude on the part of USMACV amounts to unlawful confiscation of property from a Vietnamese citizen, while the
Americans and other allied countries are here to help the Vietnamese people. If I might say so, USMACV has been
using military force to deprive the undersigned of the right to use his property, namely the Capitol Hotel.”

“If USMACV cannot pay me the rental why can it not return the building to me? I am not interested
in renting my building any longer but still USMACV is forcing me to rent it without any compensation at all.”

“I should be grateful, Mr. Ambassador, if you could please take this case into consideration once for all. I also
hope that President-elect Nguyen Van Thieu and Vice President-elect Nguyen Cao Ky will take notice to protect the rights of
a Vietnamese citizen who is being unjustly treated by Americans in uniform.”

“My nine children and I were asked by USMACV to move out of the building’s ground floor on the promise
of fair and prompt payment of rentals. Once we were out of the building, USMACV did not keep its promise.
Notwithstanding the valid lease for the ground and first floors, USMACV has ignored the provisions of the said contract and
has continued to withhold payment of accrued rentals for the whole building knowing that I cannot do anything to get
back my building in spite of non-payment of the rent.”

“Understandably, the payment was withheld during the ownership litigation, but after the Supreme Court made its decision, USMACV still refuses
to pay.”

“I’m now in the hospital and very sick and in need of medical attention. I need money to pay my
hospital bills. Where will I get the money if USMACV does not pay the rentals of the Capitol on which
depends the livelihood of my entire family.”

“Would you please, Mr. Ambassador, look into this case and make an impartial decision which I will gladly accept. I
believe that you and all the readers of this open letter will help me in my right to retain what
I own from the oppressions of military officers of which you and the Commander-in-Chief of USMACV might have been unaware.”

Truong Binh and his family
55 Nghia Thuc Street, Cholon.

I sympathize with Mr. Truong Binh and his family but I am shocked by his naivety. As a Vietnamese, he
should know by now that his country is occupied by 500,000 U.S. troops without any treaty, only at the asking
of people like General Thieu and General Ky, who cannot represent the Vietnamese people. If Mr. Binh reads the recent
pronouncements by President Johnson and Secretary of State Dean Rusk, he should realize that Vietnam is simply a battlefield for
the United States to contain the Chinese, and that the U.S. is not there in Saigon, Cholon, and all over
his land to help the Vietnamese people.

Mr. Binh must remember that in November 1966, the mayor of Saigon, Colonel Van Van Cua, was arrested and handcuffed
by the U.S. Military Police in Saigon. Mr. Binh’s insistence on the return of his property is legitimate but against
the background of a situation in which his own compatriots are destroyed daily both North and South by the U.S.
military power, his demand seems to me totally irrelevant if not comic. I advise Mr. Binh to befriend a U.S.
corporal to plead for the restoration of his hotel rather than to call on General Thieu and General Ky, the
President and Vice President-elect of South Vietnam.

He has acted in his official capacity as president of the College Union Board in organizing a program. He has
brought individuals and their ideas together and has worked with the YMCA and Student Council to sponsor the program in
a unified manner. B. A. has his views, and yes, the program is slanted. What do you expect? The persons
responsible for the program care about the subject matter. And persons who care about things tend to have definite opinions
on those things. It is only natural that such persons present a slanted program rather than a neutral program. Why
should it be otherwise? However, the presentation of a slanted program should not hinder dialogue; it should serve only to
provoke dialogue. Those who are sponsoring the program have reservations about war and feel that the program deals with relevant
issues. Those who support war or find it necessary or inevitable are invited to sit down and discuss the matter.
Again, the program is not meant as a form of pacifist student protest—it is an attempt to promote discussion on
a vital issue. Criticism of the program itself or of B. A. is a waste; if you want to criticize
ideas presented in the program, do so at the discussions.

Tate Sterrett, ’69
Davidson College

Viet War Goals Are Challenged

Dear Editor,

The U.S. military intervention in Vietnam is wrong because:

—It violates the Golden Rule. ‘Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.’ Or are we forgetting
the Sermon on the Mount?
—It violates international law. Vietnam, North and South, is one sovereign nation and we have no right to interfere in
its internal affairs, or are we forgetting our own Civil War?
—It violates the dictum of Jesus: ‘Cast out the mote in thine own eye, then thou shalt see clearly how
to help thy neighbor.’ We have plenty to do at home. Are we forgetting Jesus? Think. Are we forgetting to
think for ourselves?

Kenneth D. Tomkinson
Vero Beach, Fla.

By HEYWARD CARTER
Associate Editor

Rapid consensus and agreement are very rarely experienced at Davidson in any areas of college life, whether it be in
student body or faculty-administration matters. And at an intellectual institution too much consensus would indeed be suspect and, in most
cases, indicative of a lack of desirable diversity among students and teachers. Agreement within any group at Davidson is to
say the least, rare. This is why the almost unanimous agreement in almost all areas of the Blue Sky project
is doubly surprising. From the beginning of the study, in recognizing the need for curriculum revision, to the recent presentation
of the Blue Sky Committee’s report of objectives and outline, “the many months of discussion and argument have ended in
a remarkable degree of agreement on both aims and means,” as the report itself states.

Now the question is not as to whether or not Davidson needs a curriculum revision or even, in the main,
how this revision is to be carried out. And even on this a consensus seems to have been reached—as fast
as possible.

When the first budget including the adoption of the program proposed by the committee was presented to the trustees, it
was turned down on the grounds that it was not economically feasible. Davidson, the argument ran, simply does not have
the money right now to put a complete overhaul like this into effect—like most small private colleges we are, if
not in trouble financially, not far from it. This would have been a good enough excuse for both faculty and
administration and those students interested in the program to accept an indefinite delay in implementing the committee’s recommendations.

A new budget was prepared, after the first was rejected, which, like the first, included the recommendations of the Blue
Sky Committee. The difference, however, was in that money was taken away from various other items in the budget and
channeled toward the curriculum revision. It is hard to tell exactly which sections of the old budget lost in allocations,
and whether the cuts were on present areas of expenditure or proposed areas, but the point is that a successful
effort was made to see that the money did come from somewhere.

Adoption of the report was clearly a priority item, as was shown by the paring of other items on the
budget (such as proposed faculty raises) and most dramatically by Dean Johnston in last Friday's open faculty meeting when he
stated that at the coming closed faculty meeting he would propose that the administration and faculty “make a start (on
the program) regardless of the budget.” This is the sort of remark we are used to hearing from the typical
dissatisfied irresponsible student, but not from the Dean of the Faculty. Clearly the situation is regarded as exceptional even at
the top.

The report of the Blue Sky Committee is one of those things everybody talks about but almost no one, at
least among the students, reads. THE DAVIDSONIAN last week gave a summary of the main points of the proposal, which
is as far as most of us have gotten with it. Now, after the report has been accepted in part
by the faculty, it still retains most of its original content, the phases being initiated next year being the new
calendar, a new set of requirements, and perhaps at least a part of the new honors college program—in other words,
the major part of a whole new program for Davidson.

There are, of course, a few areas of the report with which not everyone agrees, whether it be because he
believes it to be not ambitious enough in scope or too ambitious. There are endless details to work out before
the program can be fully implemented. There are financial and administrative questions that will have to be answered eventually but
which now seem to be pretty much unanswerable. All of these problems can and will be taken care of, though.
What is in order now is not anguish over the unsolved details of the program but congratulations to those who
first conceived it and have carried it through. It may be the last time any of us ever see anything
that close to unity at Davidson.
