FRESHMEN FORM CAR POOL (See Page Six)

VOL. LVII

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1967

B’BALLERS GO TO DANCE CLASS (See Page Five)

NUMBER NINE

Calendar, 3-Track Plan, Independent Study May Be Started Next Year Says Johnston

Faculty To Vote On Plans During Tuesday Meeting

Revolt Celebrated With Red Pastry

Dr. Norman Johnson's European history class ate red cake to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Russian Revolution Tuesday. Senior Bill Schmickle, who was picked by the class to arrange the party, said the purpose of the party was not to celebrate the Communist revolution but to remember the conditions which led to the overthrow of the Russian czar. A Queens College student baked the cake. Students in the class supplied armbands and a Russian flag for the party. Several other students had planned to carry a Russian flag at ROTC drill Tuesday afternoon in memory of the revolution, but they failed to show up.

TO EACH ACCORDING TO HIS WANT

Schmickle gives cake to George Shaw as Dr. Johnson supervises.

Morganthau: First Shot In Series

Political scientist Dr. Hans Morganthau will lead off a week of lectures and discussions next week on the theme, “Why War?” Morganthau, the Albert A. Michelson Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science and Modern History at the University of Chicago, will appear as the year's first Reynolds Lecturer. The “Why War?” program is being presented during the week of Morganthau's lectures as a cooperative effort of the YMCA, the College Union Board, and the Student Council. The planning committee includes faculty members, students, and clergy.

Morganthau will speak Monday night on the topic, “A New Foreign Policy for the U.S.” In chapel Tuesday his topic will be “Nuclear Power and Foreign Policy.” Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. David Maynard, a member of the American Friends Service Committee, will present a film, Alternatives, to be followed by a discussion. He will conduct individual counseling sessions on the draft prior to the film. A film, The Magician, will be presented and discussed Wednesday afternoon, and the first week will be concluded Thursday evening with the presentation of the documentary film, The War Game, in Love Auditorium.

Dr. Philip Secor, former Davidson professor and present Dean of Muhlenburg College, Easton, Pa., will present a lecture on the political reasoning behind war on Nov. 20. On the next night Dr. Ernest Patterson, professor of economics, will discuss the economic reasons for war.

In discussing the program, planning committee chairman B. A. Aiken said, “Though we are part of a time in which we need most to confront the moral issues of war, we find ourselves more than ever before tempted to ignore these issues.”

“It’s quite possible,” said Aiken, “that some people of our college will be forced to re-examine their positions—a rather wholesome posture for an academic community.”

“I think the planning committee has done an excellent job of selecting program material,” he added. “This has not been done necessarily to present a balanced or a biased position, but rather to present material which will stimulate discussion and dialogue.”

“There is even a chance,” he concluded, “that someone might stick his neck out and make a decision! This series of programs and its resulting dialogue hopes to help provide a basis for such a decision.”

The members of the planning committee for the program include the Rev. Will Terry, the Rev. Scott Woodmansee, Dr. E. F. Patterson, Dr. Sam Maloney, T. L. Covington, Dr. T. A. Williams, and students Tate Sterrett, Bill Smyth, Tom Berseuder, Tom Earnhardt, Mike Sigman, Clint Stretch, and Aiken.

Morganthau, noted political theorist, is currently an adviser to the Department of Defense. His most recent books include The Purpose of American Politics, Politics Among Nations, Dilemmas of Politics, and the 3-volume work, Politics in the Twentieth Century.

Lee Evans Trio To Give Jazz Concert Tomorrow

A jazz ensemble, the Lee Evans Trio, will head the list of entertainment in the second Social Council concert weekend of the school year tomorrow night. Social Chairman David Jennings described the trio as “one of the fastest coming jazz groups in the country.” He contracted the group after hearing them perform at the Black Booking Conference, held last spring in Columbia, S.C.

“The audience at the four-day conference was made up of numerous social council representatives,” said Jennings, “and they accorded the Evans Trio a standing ovation. They were the only group to get such an ovation.”

One New York columnist has evaluated Lee Evans as “undisputed king of pianists in the lush pop field.” The trio consists of the piano, a bass, and drums. The group has been on the night club circuit, playing such clubs as the Sands in Las Vegas and Basin St. East in New York. Evans is currently the orchestra leader at the Americana Hotel in New York.

Jennings called the group “half-jazz, half-modern,” saying that they have several modern arrangements which he said, “are really tremendous.”

Following the concert, the Social Council will provide entertainment into the early morning. Running concurrently from 10 p.m. on will be a movie, Destry Rides Again, and a combo party. Following the combo party there will be a blanket concert, featuring Gamble Rogers, a former member of the Serendipity Singers. Coffee and doughnuts will be available in the College Union following the concert until 3 a.m.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, November 11
2 p.m. Football
Richardson Field
Davidson vs. Wofford

8 p.m. Concert
Love Auditorium
Lee Evans Trio

10 p.m. Movie
College Union
Destry Rides Again

10 p.m. Combo Party
College Union

12:30 a.m. Blanket Concert
College Union
Gamble Rogers

Sunday, November 12
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service
Lingle Chapel
Rev. Scott Woodmansee

Monday, November 13
4 p.m. Cross Country Conference Meet
Richmond, Virginia

8:15 p.m. Lecture
Hodson Hall
Hans Morganthau

Tuesday, November 14
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly
Love Auditorium
Hans Morganthau

8 p.m. Movie
College Union
The Pleasure Seekers

8:15 p.m. Wind Ensemble Concert

Wednesday, November 15
8 p.m. Travel Film
Hodson Hall
College Union
High Road to Skiing

Thursday, November 16
10:20 a.m. Chapel
VISTA National Administrator

8 p.m. Movie
Love Auditorium
The War Game

8 p.m. Movie
Love Auditorium
The Pleasure Seekers

Hobbie, May Get Loyalty AwardsStudent Council was unable to meet Tuesday night because the nine attending members did not constitute a quorum. Secretary Sam Darby cleverly decided this was a wonderful opportunity to present “perfect attendance” awards to those members who have not missed a council meeting the whole year. Mike May and Peter Hobbie received the awards. President Tom Earnhardt lambasted the absent members and warned them that the rule of dismissal from the council for two consecutive unexcused absences would be enforced in the future.

Blue Sky Committee proposals on a new calendar, area requirements and exams, independent study, and the three-track plan may be implemented next year, said Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston Wednesday in releasing the contents of the final Blue Sky report. The report was basically the same as the progress report issued last May, yet still lacks the report of the Student Life Subcommittee. The recommendations will go before the faculty Tuesday, when the faculty is expected to approve all aspects except the ROTC recommendations. Consideration of ROTC proposals will be delayed due to the absence of the Professor of Military Science, Col. Frederick B. Outlaw. Reservations had been expressed by the trustees in their October meeting that the program would be difficult to implement due to scarcity of funds. President D. Grier Martin has estimated that the program would require an additional $6 million in the endowment.

The report is the result of a year-long study begun on the impetus of a report from a Visiting Committee from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools which criticized the educational program here as “dull and unimaginative.” The Blue Sky proposals included recommendations that:
- ROTC be made voluntary and credit be given only for the advanced program.
- The 2-semester year be replaced with a 3-term year with pre-Christmas exams.
- A learning center be established for independent study, programmed learning, and a career service program.
- Area requirements which a student must pass to enter the junior class, with exams in each area, be set up.
- An Honors College be set up for 35 to 50 exceptional students.
- A non-Western studies program be initiated.

Dean: ROTC Not A Liberal Art
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

The Blue Sky Committee's recommendations, following its attempt to create a curriculum with fewer required courses, include the placement of ROTC on a voluntary basis and the removal of academic credit for the first two years. Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston summarized the committee's viewpoint by saying, “I don't object to the program, but to giving academic credit for it. It doesn't belong in a liberal arts program.” The present contract between Davidson and the Army calls for “appropriate academic credits” to be given for the courses offered and for officers of the ROTC Department to have the status of faculty members. Johnston, who chaired the Blue Sky Committee, explained the college’s reasons for maintaining the program as “a way by which students are helped in the military obligations which face them.” The benefits of the program—such as commissioning as an officer, greater safety, and financial remuneration—are still regarded as valuable. The alternative mentioned by both President D. Grier Martin and Dean Johnston is that freshman and sophomore ROTC be placed on the same basis as physical education. In Martin's words, “Davidson would require a course without credit being given.”

Woodmansee Calls For Fewer Chapel Periods

Chaplain Scott Woodmansee has announced his intention to propose a cut in the number of chapel periods per week at the next meeting of the Faculty Religious Policy Committee. Concerned that he is not always able to provide top-quality speakers, Woodmansee said that his proposal would help him to do so, and thus make chapels “more a part of the academic life of the campus.” His proposal would cut the number of chapel periods per week to two, with only one speaker a week. He proposes that the same budget be maintained so that he would have more flexibility in obtaining better speakers. The second period each week would be allotted to student organizations, such as Student Council, the drama department, and the male chorus. He stressed, however, that he would only be securing one speaker a week. He added that the second chapel period would not necessarily be used each week. “The new idea,” said Woodmansee, “would give more assurance that we could obtain better speakers on prescribed topics. It is not a matter of trying to do away with chapel; it is merely a method of getting better chapel speakers.” Woodmansee is currently allotted a $5,000 budget per year for payment of speakers. This usually includes payment of two speakers per week. The new proposal would enable him to double the amount he could pay each speaker. Woodmansee pointed out that he had not made the proposal to the committee yet, so he could give no indication of how it would be received.

THE FINAL TOUCH

Rupert Barber, assistant professor of drama, adds a make-up touch before sending out his students to start the first night of “Darkness At Noon.” The play, which began its run Wednesday night, will give its final performance today at 8:15 p.m. It is reviewed by George House on page six. (Staff photo by Olson)

Miscellany Rejoins Board; Handbook Bid Unopposed

After almost a year's absence, The Miscellany rejoined the Publications Board Wednesday when its application was approved by the board. In a later meeting on Thursday, the board ruled that junior Tom Baker was an acceptable candidate for editor of the Wildcat Handbook. Outgoing editor Mike Mooty reported at that meeting that Baker was the only student who had filed with him to run for the editor's position. Bruce Weihe, Student Council Elections Committee chairman, ruled this morning, however, that it would not be necessary to hold an election. He said that the Student Council could declare Baker the new editor. Sam Boyte, Publications Board chairman, said that the Student Council would probably have to approve Weihe's decision before Baker could officially assume the editor’s position. The Miscellany had pulled out of the board last year to assume more control over the selection of its editor. In rejoining the board, the magazine stipulated that candidates for editor will have to be approved by its own Board of Advisers before their names are submitted to the Publications Board for further approval.