While warm, summer breezes were luring college students from books to beaches, the masters of the Southern Conference were busy
finagling their way out of a tight little problem: expense. And their solution may have signaled the end of freshman
athletics in this conference. The masters of the conference didn't need Ed Dwelle and THE DAVIDSONIAN to tell them that
athletics eat up a healthy chunk of a college's budget. As schools in the conference further accelerate their athletic programs,
the cost of maintaining such an outfit will also increase and place even heavier burdens on institutions in the future.
The moguls knew something had to give—and it did. What “gave” was the freshman ineligibility rule, which had prevented freshmen
from competing on varsity teams since the rule was enacted at the end of World War II. The conference ruled
this summer that freshmen are now eligible for competition on varsity teams except football and basketball.

Like most explanations of major policy changes, the one that accompanied this was covered with syrupy platitudes that seemed to
sidestep the real issue. The reason most often given for the change was that the old system hampered young athletes’
development. This line reasoned that it was a shame that an outstanding athlete had to wait a full year before
he could accrue the benefits of superior coaching and more demanding competition that he would meet on the varsity. As
one athletic director said, why should a boy who can run a 9.6 hundred-yard dash have to wait until he's
a sophomore before he can compete in a varsity meet? Makes sense, doesn't it? To a point, yes. But of
course, there are a few flaws in that reasoning. Not all sports affected by the rule change are individual sports.
For example, soccer. A talented boy might better benefit from a year on a freshman team, where his superior abilities
might make him more of a leader than he might become if faced with tougher competition on the varsity. The
other oft-given explanation is that a talented athlete might benefit more from the superior coaching on a varsity. That's nice
too, except that most schools in the conference do not maintain separate coaching staffs for freshmen in the affected sports.
Most schools just double-up, with varsity coaches assuming a heavier load. But so much for that anyway.

Through the usual barrage of malarkey comes one explanation which we suspect might be the main one: expense. In the
words of Walt Drewry, Sports Information Director at Richmond, “We just don't have staffs large enough to handle varsity and
freshman teams in most cases, and it's too expensive." Drewry's statement was backed up by other men in the conference,
including Eddie Teague of The Citadel and C. L. “Duke” Ellington at Virginia Military Institute. All said the economic factor
was a major reason. We suspect it is the major reason, since, of course, the problem of staffing freshman teams
is directly related to the expense. If it's not, then we suggest hiring more coaches. Even considering the expense, most
schools plan to continue some kind of a freshman program, even though their best freshman athletes might be shanghaied to
the varsity. Eddie Teague, athletic director of The Citadel, said his school will continue freshman programs in the affected sports
and he foresaw no plan to eliminate them. However, he admitted freshman programs are in trouble. “There is a danger
that some schools may put all their good athletes in the varsity program,” he said, “and make freshman athletics about
like the junior varsity programs in high school. We don’t want to ruin the freshman program, but each school must
decide for itself how to manage freshman sports.” Drewry said Richmond will not field freshman teams in golf and tennis.
Since freshmen are still ineligible for basketball and football, they will, of course, field freshman teams in these sports.

Even though most schools will not wipe out their freshmen teams this season, we feel that the end of all
freshmen sports is near. Since it is expensive to operate freshman teams, athletic directors in the future will be under
considerable pressure from the colleges to save money by erasing freshman sports. If you can reason that it's cheaper to
put good freshmen on the varsity, then you can reason that it's even cheaper to put all of them there.
Perhaps golf and tennis coaches of the future might implement a squad system, whereby all candidates, freshmen and varsity, would
compete for positions. Those who failed could join the IMAC. Then of course, it’s only a short step to removing
restrictions on basketball and football players. According to many directors, the only reason these sports were not included is that
faculty members in member schools felt that playing on these teams drained too much time which a freshman could better
spend studying or settling down. Someday they may realize just how much freshman football and basketball players practice, and then
decide if they’d practice much more on the varsity.

The end of freshman athletics would be unfortunate. Freshman athletics give boys who could never star on the varsity one
last crack at competition in intramural sports. For athletes with outstanding potential, it provides a year to further develop team
leadership and gain valuable experience needed to make the transition from varsity to college competition.

Freshman Gridders

The Wildcat freshmen kick off their grid season Friday in a meeting with the Duke Blue Devilettes in Durham. The
game inaugurates a season which Coach Bob Brown has labelled as “tough.” “It’s a hard schedule,” Brown said, “especially for
a freshman team. Last year’s was hard, but with the addition of The Citadel, this year’s should be even tougher.
All our games will be rough.”

The ‘Kittens began practice Sept. 9, but conflicts with orientation have cut practice time. Brown said practice time has been
too short to adequately judge his charges. But the major problem, he said, may not come from players' abilities but
from a new punting rule. The rule states that the five interior offensive linemen may not cross the line of
scrimmage in a punt situation until after the ball has been kicked. Brown said this rule will give the opposition
an advantage.

Freshman Grid Roster

ENDS
Bumich, Nick - Pittsburgh, Pa.
Hulbert, Ned - Washington, N.C.
Lawrence, Rusty - Nashville, Tenn.
Mikolayunas, Mike - Baltimore, Md.
Ravenel, Teddy - Greensboro, N.C.

TACKLES
Baugham, Leonard - Atlanta, Ga.
Buchanan, Jim - Bakersville, N.C.
Harrell, Nelson - Gainesville, N.C.
Kennedy, Stuart - Asheville, N.C.
McCormick, Sean - Gary, Ind.
Peterson, Bryan - Winston-Salem, N.C.
Prestwich, Ken - Rockville, Md.
Tutherow, Ken - Charlotte, N.C.

GUARDS
Dennis, Hugh - Asheville, N.C.
Epperson, Steve - Atlanta, Ga.
Rader, Frank - Mooresville, N.C.
Shelton, Stuart - Atlantic Beach, N.C.
Shepherd, Wade - Maiden, N.C.

CENTERS
Harper, John - Jacksonville, Fla.
Long, Jan - Clemson, S.C.

BACKS
Hawarnh, Rick - Jacksonville, Fla.
Niebauer, Bob - Verona, Pa.
Oxman, Allen - Atlanta, Ga.
Thompson, Mark - Fayetteville, Ark.
Whittington, Hampton - Benson, N.C.
Ballenger, Fred - Reidsville, N.C.

By DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor

Intramural athletics got off to a strong start last week as the 1967 flickerball season began. “All the boys in
the IMAC are very enthusiastic about this year's program,” said Sterling Martin, IMAC director. “The officers have been especially hard-working.
I can see only improvement for the program.” IMAC president Doug Ely, vice president Geult Birchard, and secretary John Flowers
have additional reason to be optimistic about improvement in intramurals this year. An increase of $2,000 in the IMAC budget
raised the amount of money the IMAC will have for its program to $32,000. The additional funds will be used
to acquire new equipment for intramural competition and for other improvements and additions to the present program.pro- gram, Martin said.
He added that the IMAC plans to get new footballs, basketballs, safety equip- ment, referee’s equipment and gym mats suitable
for use in basketball games. In addition to this equipment, the IMAC has purchased new stop watches which, besides being
used for athletic events, will be available for any student to check out of the basket room for his own
use, Martin said.

Another innovation for this year's program is the awarding of trophies for the team winners of each sport. The trophies
will be kept permanently by the winning teams. Trophies will be given in all intramural sports. Plans for the future
development of the IMAC center around an intramural athletic handbook project that the council is planning this year. The book,
which it is hoped will be available to the student body next year, will contain information about rules, statistics, pictures
and other pertinent information about the program, Martin said. The purpose of the handbook will be to publicize IMAC activities
and to generate a greater interest in intramurals among more members of the student body, an IMAC spokesman added.

Although the first handbook will not be available until next year, a pamphlet is being planned for distribution to students
at the beginning of the second semester. The pamphlet will summarize first semester activities and forecast spring events. Individual handbills
will be printed before special events like the wrestling tournament and the tennis meet, Martin said.

With the season underway, the Kappa Sigs, last year’s IMAC champs, will be defending their crown in the all-sport competition.
Points are awarded to the 12 fraternity teams and an independent team for their performances in flickerball, basketball, softball, track,
tennis, wrestling, golf, handball, volleyball and other sports. Referees for IMAC games will enjoy a higher pay this year, their
pay rate being raised from 75 cents per game to one dollar. Referees will also be wearing new red and
white shirts and will have new whistles. “We thought if we dressed the referees up a little and raised their
pay, we could get a better officiating job from them,” Martin said.

In addition to fraternity competition, the freshmen will also participate in intramurals in an inter-freshman program to begin soon. A
schedule change for this year's IMAC events moves the golf tournament to the fall, probably near the end of October.
In addition to the regular team tournament, an individual golf tournament, not for team points, is planned for the spring.

Sig Eps Bob McKellar and Don Gresko warmed up to score one apiece Wednesday as the flickerball team of Sigma
Phi Epsilon won its first contest of flickerball games in more than a year. Playing in a driving rain which
added a slippery coat of water to the field, the Sig Eps battled the Sigma Nu's to a 12-6 decision
in other IMAC action. The ATO's, Betas and Kappa Sigs emerged undefeated from the first week of competition. The Tau's
downed Sigma Chi's by a 27-7 score last week. They followed this with a 46-6 romp over the Independents and
a 32-16 thriller over the Phi Delts. The Betas also garnered three wins this week, highlighted by a 21-20 decision
over the Sigma Nu's. The Betas followed this with a 24-12 win over the Independents and a 35-14 victory over
the Pi Kaps.

The Kappa Sigs won two this week, heading off with a 19-6 triumph over the Pi Kaps and followed by
a 31-19 romp over the Independents. The Sigma Chi's offset their loss to the Taus with wins over the Sigma
Nu’s and Independents. The Phi Gams fell to the Betas 30-13 but won over the Nu's and Indies. The Delts
downed the Pikes and KA’s, while the KA’s beat the Sig Ep and Pikes.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-241-3

Flynn, Larry - Lexington, Ky.
Giles, Chris - Miami, Fla.
Holbrook, Tate - High Point, N.C.
Lyon, Rick - Wheaton, IL.
Woods, Ted - Ellicott City, Md.
Hovis, Jim - Richmond, Va.
Mockbee, David - Jackson, Miss.
Reeves, Bill - Langley, S.C.

Swingline
Do they have a 4th of July in England?
The Christian Science Monitor recommends you read
Take two
Your local newspaper and what do you have?
Your local newspaper has a wide range of news and features. It also reports the major national and international news.
THE MONITOR COMPLEMENTS YOUR LOCAL PAPER. We specialize in analyzing and interpreting the important national and international news. Our intention
is to bring the news into sharper focus. The Monitor has a worldwide staff of correspondents, some of them rank
among the world’s finest. And the Monitor's incisive, provocative editorials are followed just as closely by the men on Capitol
Hill as they are by the intelligent, concerned adult on Main Street.

WHY YOU SHOULD TRY THE MONITOR
You probably know the Monitor's professional reputation as one of the world’s finest newspapers. Try the Monitor, see how it
will take you above the average newspaper reader. Just fill out the coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway Street
Boston, Massachusetts, USA 02115
Please start my Monitor subscription for the period checked below. I enclose $ (U.S. funds).
Name
Street
City
State
ZIP Code

This is the Swingline Tot Stapler
98¢ (including 1000 staples)
Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.49
Unconditionally guaranteed. At any stationery, variety, or book store.
SWINGLINE
Long Island City, N.Y. 11101

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your ID card, will entitle you to a 20% discount on pipe (only) purchases.
MICHAEL’S
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 20202
