Page Six February 10, 1967 The Davidsonian

AN EVOLUTIONARY PROCESS
Davidson Gradually Adopts More Integration
By CHARLES McEWEN
Assistant Managing Editor

The pledging of a Negro by a fraternity for the first time at Davidson marked another step in the progress of integration at the college which began with the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. The first Negro student who enrolled at Davidson in September, 1962, ended 125 years of segregation.

Integration at Davidson was planned for and anticipated from the very beginning. Shortly after the Board of Trustees in February, 1961, voted to admit a maximum of three Congolese students, interested students, faculty, and townspeople worked together to determine what facilities in the town and in Charlotte would be open to a Negro student, whenever the first Negro was admitted to Davidson.

The process of integration has been more an evolutionary process than one single event or date in the history of the college. The process was begun by the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., when it wrote, prior to the Board of Trustees meeting in February, 1961, asking the college and the Board to consider admitting Congolese students. The Board of World Missions had presented the proposal for integration with the view that Davidson as a church school might serve as an aid to mission work in the Congo by admitting qualified Congolese students.

The action by the Board of World Missions paralleled the action of interested students on the Davidson campus. At the February, 1961, Board of Trustees meeting, Henry Shue presented a proposal, in the form of a letter to each Trustee, which asked the racially discriminatory stipulation of Davidson's admission policy be changed to a policy that would allow the admission of Negro students. Although Shue was at that time president of the student body, he presented the proposal as an individual student. Members of the YMCA Cabinet also had passed a resolution asking for the end of discriminatory admission policies.

The Trustees voted to accept up to three Congolese students with certain provisos: that the Negro students be Congolese; that such students be sponsored by the Board of World Missions and that the students meet the academic standards set for all students admitted to Davidson.

The action of the Trustees was followed by personal contact with businessmen both in Davidson and in Charlotte. “We got a fair hearing from most people, and in large the community said that it would accept a Negro student,” Rhodes said.

By September, 1961, the Congolese Committee had, in addition to its other work, collected $1,420, including pledges, for the support of a Congolese student at Davidson, whenever a student who met the qualifications was found. Success in finding such a Congolese student was not immediate. Although the committee and the college, along with the Board of World Mission considered several possible candidates, in particular a boy then taking some high school courses in New Jersey, Nzenga had for the year previous to his admission been taking a post-high school course in the United States and had been perfecting his English at a language institute over the summer.

Rhodes indicated that the intervening year and a half since the Board of Trustees first took action had served as a cooling off period for the college and community. Nzenga “came into a fairly normal situation,” Rhodes said. Integration at Davidson was not marked by any incidents. “The student body as a whole took this calmly, and there was not a single ‘un-nice’ incident on this campus," Rhodes said.

Rhodes noted that in early days, before and just after integration, a student from Davidson was refused service because of his race. At this meeting, the Trustees were presented with the results of a faculty and student poll on the subject of integration. The faculty had voted 53-14 in favor of admitting any qualified student regardless of race. With 59 percent of the Student Body voting, 53 percent of the students casting votes were in favor of lifting further restrictions in regard to integration.

On May 17, 1962, the Board of Trustees voted to open the college to students regardless of race or nationality. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, then chairman of the Board of Trustees, characterized that voting as “not close at all.” Thus by the time that integration came to Davidson, the process had been well prepared for.

In summarizing the work that had gone into the preparation for the integration of the college, Rhodes reflected that “concern for the boys, not so much for the school’s image" had motivated the work of the Congolese Committee. Taking a long view at the process of integration, calmness and anticipation seem to be characteristic, although there have been some incidents in which merchants have been reluctant to or have refused to serve Negro students. Some derogatory mail has been received by Negro students here, but these have been widely spaced incidents.

In a survey of businesses in the town of Davidson patronized by college students, THE DAVIDSONIAN reported in February, 1961, that the majority opinion of the businessmen was that “they won't serve them,” in reference to the Negro students.

Sunday Night Open House
The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Fredericksen
Johnson
Mrs. McGhee

Lack of boxes at the Davidson Post Office has resulted in the addition of 666 boxes, according to John G. Fisher, assistant to the postmaster. The need for expansion came as a result of student complaints about having to share boxes and the unavailability of boxes to new residents. In addition, glass doors have replaced the old wooden ones at the entrance to the counter area. Although plagued with illness, Haught continued his studies and was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. His major was political science, and he had planned to be a teacher. Leaving Davidson in April, 1966, he was employed by the Postal Service.Possibility of having a Negro student at Davidson. In a September 1963 DAVIDSONIAN article, four businesses in the town of Davidson stated that they were open to all, regardless of race. In summarizing the race relation situation today, Rhodes pointed out that “the interest of federal and state government, and the interest that the church has taken in problems of race relations, all of these things have in a sense come together and are bearing good fruit.”

The college was no longer bound by the previous stipulation that only Congolese students be admitted, although the first Negro student was in fact Congolese. The following year, September 1963, a second Congolese entered Davidson as freshmen. In 1964 the first two American Negro students entered Davidson.

With Mid-Winters just around the corner, shop at Rush Wilson Ltd. for that new outfit. We now have a good selection of spring suits, sport coats, socks, and shirts. Shop at Rush Wilson Ltd. and make a good impression on that favorite girl.

RUSH WILSON LTD.
Greenville, S. C.
Davidson, N. C.

STUDY IN SOUTHERN FRANCE
A University year in Aix-en-Provence under the auspices of the University of Aix-Marseille (founded 1409). Classes in English and French satisfying curriculum and credit requirements of over 280 American Colleges and Universities. Students live in French homes. Total costs equivalent to those at private universities and colleges in the United States.

“SEMESTER PROGRAM IN AVIGNON”
“SUMMER PROGRAM IN AIX-EN-PROVENCE”
Write: INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES (founded 1957)
2 bis, rue du Bon Pasteur
AIX-EN-PROVENCE, FRANCE
Telephone: France (Code 91) 27.82.39 or (Code 91) 27.69.01

About Death, God, Man
The relationship between God, man, and death was the topic of an address in chapel Tuesday by Dr. Balmer Kelly, acting president of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Kelly said there is a fundamental relationship between the book of Job and the New Testament. Job is not posing the question, “Is there a god?” Instead, he wants to know the relationship existing between man and God. The theme of Job is, “Is it possible that there is some type of intermediary?” For Job hopes to find, in an intermediary, some meaning for life. He had lived long enough stripped of his blessings in this “life of utter meaningless,” said Kelly. It was possible that this intermediary would pose a solution to the dilemma. The solution to Job’s problem is in the personage of Christ of the New Testament. For Christ is “bone of our bone, and flesh of our flesh.” He is one like us. Kelly said of Christ, “Here is one who really understands His oneness with God.” It is through Him that man finds that relationship to God. Probing the problem of death, Kelly asked the question, “Beyond all suffering, is there some hope?” The basis of the New Testament, he said, is the belief that there is life after death. In the light of this knowledge of the answer to the question of life after death, Kelly recommended, “Take up your cross.”

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors: JOHN BAILEY, EDWARD DWELLE
Managing Editors: SAM BOYTE, BOB TRAVERS
Assistant Managing Editors: CHARLES McEWEN, KERN PARKER
Sports Editor: TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editors: YATES FAISON, BOB REID
News Editor: ROBBIE HOOKER
Copy Editor: BILL SEIGLER
Photography Editor: BILL OLSON
Photographers: DON CARROLL, DAVID WEEMS
Cartoonists: LOU HILL, GUNNAR MAGNUS
Assistant Business Manager: BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER
Contributors this week: Don Sewell, Bob Stubbs, Danny White, Cliff Duke, John Williams, Ken Cool, Jim Cooley, Bob Cockrill, John Barber, Gary Sigmon, Robert Pyeatt, Bob Dunham, Kenneth Hamilton, Danny Coltrane, Bruce Weihe, Marvin Ellison, Joe Jones, John Rowe, Carter Fussell, Heyward Whetsell, Bill Graham, Franklin Anderson, Lewis Lavine, and George Cretekos.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036.

Want to be more than a face in the crowd? At Ford Motor Company we're looking for better ideas—in everything from automotive marketing to steel-making and basic research. Ideas that don’t come from people who look alike, act alike, and think alike. Whatever your major—arts, science, or business—if you want to be more than a face in the crowd, we want to talk with you. Call your placement office for an appointment. Dates of visitation: February 14, 1967.

The solution to Job’s problem is in the personage of Christ of the New Testament. For Christ is “bone of our bone, and flesh of our flesh.” He is one like us. Kelly said of Christ, “Here is one who really understands His oneness with God.” It is through Him that man finds that relationship to God. Probing the problem of death, Kelly asked the question, “Beyond all suffering, is there some hope?” The basis of the New Testament, he said, is the belief that there is life after death. In the light of this knowledge of the answer to the question of life after death, Kelly recommended, “Take up your cross.”

And we're looking for him. We're looking for better ideas at Ford Motor Company. At Ford Motor Company thousands of uniquely different people work at thousands of different jobs to produce thousands of different products. And we don’t stop with looking, either. When we find the man, we try to cultivate his uniqueness. With a Graduate Program which offers immediate opportunities for individual development. With a rotational assignment system which assures immediate responsibility and constant visibility by management.

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
THE AMERICAN ROAD, DEARBORN, MICHIGAN—AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER