Vassar, Yale Plan As Hamilton Builds
By BOB TRAVERS
Managing Editor

The prospective move of Vassar College to New Haven so that it can be near Yale is indicative of a
trend becoming common in higher education, especially at small and non-coed schools. Although Vassar’s proposed move has received much publicity
in recent months, other institutions have done far more toward realizing some sort of a coeducational system on previously non-coed
campuses.

Hamilton College, a liberal arts school with a student body of about 840, is in the process of establishing the
first of a series of coordinate colleges which will share some facilities, but maintain others individually on separate campuses. The
first of the coordinate colleges, to be known as Kirkland College, will open to about 600-650 women in the fall
of 1968. That will be seven years after the plan was originally agreed upon, according to a Hamilton publicity director.
It will have its own campus, administration, trustees, and to a large extent its own faculty. For upper-level courses, however,
the two colleges will share faculty members to some extent, according to the Hamilton official. They will also share facilities
like the library and science and research facilities which Hamilton has already. Kirkland, similarly, will have facilities which Hamilton men
will be able to utilize. The two colleges will attempt to complement each other in that one will try to
emphasize disciplines and areas in which the other is weak or, as the Hamilton official expressed it, “non-existent.”

Hamilton has a faculty numbering about 85; Kirkland, which will have a student body about three-fourths the size of Hamilton's,
will have about 65 faculty members. A president and other administrative officials have already been hired.

Meanwhile, Vassar and Yale continue to study the proposed move. There are, despite strong support from Vassar’s students and faculty
for the move, many obstacles to making such a move. Vassar's 950-acre campus in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., a medium-sized Hudson River
city, must be sold—and necessarily, according to the terms of a Vassar inheritance, it must be sold to another college
which will use the facilities as a campus. There are other obstacles also, such as Poughkeepsie’s natural objection to the
move and the question of whether or not the two schools can maintain their basic goals and objectives if the
move is realized. The official positions of the two schools are reserved. Vassar’s President Simpson has emphasized the problems involved.
Yet the prospect of moving Vassar is academic to neither side of the proposed merger.

Girls At Vassar Eager for Hook-Up With Yale
(ED. NOTE: In the following article, Stella Spencer, Vassar English major, evaluates the Vassar woman’s attitude toward a possible move
to New Haven.)

Most Vassar girls are enthusiastically ready to jump into Yale’s opened arms. The decision to establish the Yale-Vassar study group
seems to be a necessity in today's demanding era of education. Students are no longer contented with the limitations imposed
by a small isolated college. The fragmented existence of a separate education is not a viable way of life—even for
four brief years. An autonomous coordinate school, operating within a university environment, would be an ideal solution to our problem.
Should Vassar be relocated in New Haven, it would not lose its identity. Association with Yale's diversity of scholastic and
cultural offerings would greatly enrich our curriculum.

The obstacles in moving to New Haven seem overwhelming, but the drama is exciting. Sarah Blanding, predecessor of Vassar's President
Simpson, thinks: “... it's simply wonderful that Vassar has shown that it is not afraid of change.” The president of
the College Government Association considered this “the most intelligent, colossal, necessary, forward movement that could be initiated. In regard to
the physical plant at Vassar, I think it is one of the biggest things working against it, from the point
of view of isolation.” A freshman was in complete agreement. “I feel we have a thinking administration; they're moving.” Signs
at the rally, when Simpson first announced the Yale-Vassar coordination study, read “New Haven, here we come!” “For God, For
Country, For Yale and Vassar.” Our old motto of “Wisdom and Purity” was changed to “Wisdom and Men!” Dissenters were
scarce; “Fie on Eli,” “Separate but equal.” One senior at Yale pointed out that there are enough coeducational colleges where
a good education can be obtained. However, there are very few good schools left without women. “Yale should remain male
so as to accommodate good students who do not want to go to a Harvard or a Brown where young
ladies will be in their classes,” he said. On the other hand, a sophomore Yalie remarked, “Yale's system is not
only unnatural and undemocratic but also a carryover from early monastic education; there just can’t be a world of secular
monks.” Generally, the faculty is receptive to the study. The move would be to their advantage, too; they would have
the opportunity of association with others outstanding in their fields.

Cornell has absorbed its minority of women. Radcliffe, once independent, is now totally swallowed by Harvard. Although the “Cliffies” may
like it, it might just as well not be a college. Though most Vassar girls have strong sentimental ties to
the 950-acre campus, the general consensus of opinion seems to be favorable: the administration, the faculty, and the students.

MacCormac’s New Campus Concept Gives Girls Key Role
(ED. NOTE: THE DAVIDSONIAN presents the following interview with Professor Earl MacCormac which was conducted by Staffer Sam Darby.)

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Dr. MacCormac, it has become known generally that you are interested in making this campus co-educational sometime in
the next ten or twenty years.

MacCORMAC: Well, I'm interested in more than a co-educational campus. I'm thinking in terms of enlarging the present student body
in several directions. Really, it does not make an awful lot of sense to educate males alone or females alone;
it's much more normal in a co-educational context. In other words, one of the dimensions of education is the social
life as well as what we now call the intellectual life. I also think that on several other levels it
is a matter of enlarging the student body and preserving the integral whole of the small campus. I want more
students and more faculty without destroying the advantages of small faculty-student relationships and the way I propose doing this is
the following: First, I believe that all colleges like Davidson will not persist as excellent educational institutions.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Do you think that Davidson is excellent now?

MacCORMAC: I think it’s close to being excellent, yes. We're a very good institution and with the right leadership and
the right work on the part of the faculty and the students, this could become one of the most exciting
institutions in the United States. I hope that it will. But at the same time, twenty years from now, unless
Davidson is to change its present pattern of education, it will not persist. Students will want to attend institutions in
which there is a cosmopolitan atmosphere and excitement in terms of intellectual vitality. For example, things that a large university
takes for granted such as the coming and going of speakers weekly, political rallies, visitors in professional and non-professional fields,
we have to work very hard to get at Davidson. I see in THE DAVIDSONIAN this year a lot of
criticism of the lack of Reynolds lecturers. It takes a lot of hard conscious effort on the part of the
administration, the faculty, and the students to maintain vitality in a small college. In a large university, you don’t have
to worry about that sort of thing because the university is set up on so much larger a base with
so many different departments; and on a laissez-faire basis, each individual block of interest is bringing in faculty, visitors from
other institutions, from the government, from the church to speak to their own little group.

For example, if you have an institution of 40,000 students and you get two or three percent of the student
body interested in an issue, then you have a large crowd out to hear a man. At Davidson College, if
you get five percent of the student body interested in a political issue or maybe a speaker, you have 50
students and we all throw up our hands and say, “Isn't that terrible?” or, you know, “What a poor showing!”
but it's not any worse here than anywhere else. The difference is that we don't have a large enough base
of students to ensure some kind of focus and enough size to carry on interest in activities. There is a
physicist from Stanford—his name is George Pate—who keeps telling us that there is a critical size of a physics department.
Well, I believe that there is a critical size of a student body in terms of the number of students
necessary to maintain activities on a voluntary basis. If you're going to have enough faculty members to staff departments, we've
got to teach more students. Our present French department with five or six men can only cover a certain area
of French literature and interest in the subject.

NEW COORDINATE CAMPUS? Coed Cost: $20 Million
By CARTER FUSSELL
Staff Writer

Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, associate professor of philosophy, estimates that it would cost the college $20 million to establish a
coordinate girls’ campus to the northeast of the present campus. MacCormac sees such a campus as a possible solution to
a serious problem that may face Davidson in the future: being too small in a national educational environment geared toward
vast, complex learning centers with highly-integrated curricula. MacCormac believes that educational institutions the size of Davidson College are too small
both for students and faculty to exist in the future. He says that many of the inadequacies faced by students
and faculty could be corrected by a larger campus group with which to work. The percentage of students who participate
in political clubs, drama productions, artist series, and other activities would increase with a larger student body.Other campus-related activities at
Davidson are no smaller than at other colleges. The same percentage on larger campuses just results in a larger turnout.
MacCormac estimates that it would take 20 years or more to build up an excellent college for girls adjacent to
Davidson. He points out that many schools are able to take advantage of other schools in their area, such as
the Bryn Mawr, Swarthmore, and Haverford systems of small colleges. However, Davidson is not able to do this as there
is not a girls’ school in the area that would rank equally on an intellectual academic basis with Davidson.

In a discussion of a physical plant to serve the needs of Davidson and a “sister school,” MacCormac said a
large research library would be needed. This would be supplemented with reserve reading rooms in residential halls. “These residential halls
would not be the barracks-like dorms you presently have, but would be living and learning centers. Besides the reading reserve
rooms, there would be learning centers consisting of classrooms, teaching machines, and a central laboratory for computer learning.”

With eighteen faculty members, you can begin to cover many more areas in more detail, make provisions for sabbaticals with
relative ease, have greater professional competence, and begin to do some very exciting things in departments. Twenty years from now,
unless Davidson begins to grow in size, it will not be able to attract top-flight faculty members. They will want
to go to universities where there are larger departments and where they can count on research with enough men in
the department to allow them to take sabbaticals and leaves.

Now comes the issue of adding to the student body. There ought to be one or two other small residential
units within half a mile of the central academic facilities. In this way, you will enlarge the institution, have enough
critical mass to support exciting activities, have a larger faculty with more competence, and still preserve a small college atmosphere
and relationship.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: You are suggesting two other colleges?

MacCORMAC: Yes, this would make three at least, perhaps five in the future.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Well, isn't that a university?

MacCORMAC: No, it’s a federated group of colleges similar to the colleges, say, in New England such as Smith, Mount
Holyoke, and Amherst, which are banding together in a confederation of small colleges, each of which preserves the small liberal
arts traditions but through cooperation they draw upon the strength of each other's faculties. We have no institutions nearby of
comparable quality, and so it's impossible for us to cooperate on that basis. Therefore, we should develop residential campuses with
central research and library facilities. At least one of the campuses, or forty percent, ought to be women because if
you're going to live with them for the rest of your lives, you ought to learn to have social relations
with them on a normal and routine basis rather than on these pressure-type weekends. Others feel, for example, that it
is wonderful to get away from women during the week and see them on the weekends.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Don't you think that’s sort of unrealistic?

MacCORMAC: The weekend life? Yes, I feel that is unnatural.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Well, sir, it's easy to say you're going to have two more colleges, but what are you going
to do about it?

MacCORMAC: The first thing I would do is to urge the college faculty and administration to set up a planning
body such that the needs of the college would be assessed. If they decided that it were desirable to have
two or three more colleges, they would set up a timetable and try to fund these. Funding is not awfully
difficult in this type of enterprise. What is needed, of course, are dormitories (and I would hope that these dormitories
wouldn't be like the present ones); they ought to have lounges in them, they ought to have recreational facilities, educational
facilities such as classrooms, a video tape center perhaps. There ought to be a variety of things in the dormitories
to break down the idea that the dormitories are apart from intellectual, social, and athletic life. For example, there ought
to be athletic facilities such as handball courts or squash courts in order to overcome the idea that, by geographical
location, the functions of athletics or the functions of intellectual life and the functions of social life are all different
entities because they are not.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Are you the only person who has these ideas?

MacCORMAC: I'm sure there are others who feel as I do.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Do you know of any?

MacCORMAC: I know of one trustee who does, and there are several faculty members who have at least considered this
idea. But I don't say there's a great, wild gold rush type of activity on the part of either students
or faculty.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Why not?

MacCORMAC: Most people really haven't considered it. Now I don't know that this Jeremiah that I'm giving you is correct;
it’s just my hunch in terms of what's happening elsewhere in the United States. The perfect example is the Sloan
Foundation grants of which Davidson is a recipient. Each was given to small colleges because small colleges were no longer
producing as many students who went on to get PhD degrees in the sciences as they did in the past.
At one time, the vast bulk of those students who received a PhD in the sciences came from the small
college. Recent studies show that many more now come from the universities. One of the purposes of the grants was
to try to stem this tide. I think that this will happen all across the board and that the small
college will find itself at a disadvantage. It doesn’t have a large library, it doesn't have enough research facilities, and
only with ingenious planning in terms of what we have and perhaps shifting our values to smaller colleges in a
federation will we be able to compete.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Look, my assignment was to talk to you about having girls here, but you seem to take girls
for granted.

MacCORMAC: No, I don’t take girls for granted.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: What I mean is that you don't think there's any question of whether or not they should be
here?

MacCORMAC: Well, I'm sure there are questions. Personally, I have very few. They're going to create a lot of problems
such as normal relationships between men and women, and for a dean of students, it would be horribly complicated. You
would have to have a dean of women and incur all kinds of social and sexual problems, but I think
they should be welcomed rather than feared. If you do this, it makes the administrators’ and the faculties’ and the
students’ lives on the whole more complicated, but the end result would be that young men and young women learn
to live together on a quite normal and low-pressure basis. These male students that we now have will begin to
learn how the feminine mind works in the classroom as well as on the weekend.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: So, in summary, what you really want to do is expand the campus, and the natural step toward
a realistic atmosphere would be a campus for women.

MacCORMAC: Well, I hope it would be realistic. I recognize it would bring lots of problems with it, but again
I emphasize that these are problems which must be faced after college, and so I think we must learn to
cope with them now.

THE DAVIDSONIAN REPORT

The Davidsonian Report this week presents a study of the possibility of establishing a coordinate women’s college near the Davidson
campus. The Report considers the problems and potentialities of such a plan and deals with the mechanics of its implementation.
The report also includes a brief look at what other colleges—Hamilton, Vassar, and Yale—have been doing in this area, and
features an analysis of the proposed Vassar-Yale merger by a Vassar junior.

MacCormac estimates that $12.5 million of the projected $20 million cost would be needed to enlarge the faculty to 90.
The remainder would go to supplement the physical plant. MacCormac noted that a much larger cultural center for the fine
arts would be needed because girls tend to participate in larger percentages in fine arts than boys. MacCormac reports that
a student has suggested that the present Union would make an excellent art gallery and studio center. In addition, a
new Union would be needed at roughly a cost of $2-$3 million.

In order to put this idea into reality, the most difficult task would be to secure endowment funds for faculty.
The dormitories would pay for themselves as they could be financed through government loan funds that would be repaid from
student room fees. A girls' gymnasium would be needed to provide athletic facilities for the sister college. In time, other
buildings would have to be constructed, but these MacCormac lists as completely necessary in the beginning. MacCormac states that now
is the time for planning to be done. It should be in terms of “a cost analysis study of needed
buildings, a careful look at current trends in higher education, and even a crystal ball.” The best location, MacCormac says,
would be one-fourth mile from the present campus with bicycles as the principal mode of transportation. As far as administration
is concerned, MacCormac recommends one president and Board of Trustees to govern the two schools, which would go under the
name Davidson College, that is, the girls would graduate from Davidson and not another-named college. There should be two sub-officers,
a Dean of College A and a Dean of College B. MacCormac emphasizes that this is not an attempt to
introduce graduate work but to set up another school of equal academic and cultural ability. The two schools acting together
could aid in adding much to this area and provide the needed cultural opportunities that are now lacking. It would
take 6-8 or even 10 years, estimates MacCormac, before this new school could operate, but he says now is the
time to begin planning.
