Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief
CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1967

Are You Serious?

The practice of bickering across the editorial page is distasteful, and fortunately, little has gone on this year. But the letter elsewhere on this page charging misrepresentation, untruth, incompletion, and presumption in last week's editorial on athletics forces us to take pen in hand and clarify the charges against us.

True, last week’s letter was, as the signers of this week’s epistle acknowledge, concerned with the formula of distributing funds from the Living Endowment. The only trouble is that this week’s signers didn’t take the effort to read to the end of the letter. “Our objections go far beyond the insufficiency of financial explanations, though,” last week's signers said. They went on to point out numerous objections to a subsidized program and concluded that “the operation of such subsidized athletics is entirely out of line with the educational purposes of the college.” It’s difficult to imagine anything more explicit than that. If only half the signers want an “end to the practice,” the other half obviously favor athletics over the college’s educational aims.

The issue of accreditation speaks for itself. The Southern Association’s rule says nothing about outside control of athletics; it says athletics will be under faculty control — not Athletic Department, not alumni, not trustees, but faculty. And the facts of the matter are that the faculty has control in name only. If either the signers or Dean Frontis Johnston thinks the college is in complete compliance with the rule, they’re either misleading themselves or they haven’t read the rule.

Recommendations of the Visiting Committee: “That athletic scholarships as administered be abolished.” And later: “That this (use of athletic grants made on the basis of athletic ability) is not a proper use of scholarship funds for a school of the character of Davidson College.” The language is clear and unambiguous; it calls for a “completely non-subsidized athletic program,” as last week’s editorial stated.

Since when is the college’s goal in intercollegiate athletic competition the chief criterion for comparing ourselves with other schools? The prospect is frightening. The point is that members of the Visiting Committee are all respected educators from respected institutions, institutions the college could do well to study.

Again, this week's signers ignore the fact that last week’s letter went beyond protesting the formula used with the Living Endowment to criticize the very structure of subsidized athletics. “Not one word about the formula,” this week’s letter said. But what was left to be said? Yes, the trustees will see the distortions in the Living Endowment, but they will also see that subsidized athletics are themselves under fire.

Our Public Image

Standard advice for politicians: “Bad publicity is better than no publicity at all.” Perhaps. But not for college newspapers. We could have done without Sunday’s comments by the ebullient aristocrat of Piedmont sports, Bill Currie, on “The Lefty Driesell Show.” Currie’s spicy assessments of college newspapers (“run by a bunch of sophomores who want to change the world”) come as a painful blow to the juniors and seniors who man our staff. Can't we take our hand at changing the world? Or are upperclassmen supposed to have lost their idealism after their sophomore stint on the staff? Nice try, Mr. Currie. Dismissing college newspapermen as “incompetents who can’t do anything else” was a valiant enough attempt to belittle those who haven't yet become satisfied with armchair assessments of their surroundings. Turnabout is fair play, they say. But in the interest of keeping peace in Mecklenburg journalism, we reserve comment on the competency of local announcers to assess our professional standards.

Elections: Inconsistency...

There’s a right way to get things done, and there’s a wrong way. Few would disagree that the student body election rules are anachronistic and desperately in need of revision. But high-handed, arbitrary action by the Student Council’s Elections Board is not the way to get the change.

“What’s behind these candidates being allowed to place posters around campus?” people were asking this week, about a practice that contradicts precedent, though there is no explicit rule in the Student Council Bylaws forbidding such a practice. Most students are obviously under the impression that posters are verboten, and when the chairman of the Elections Board gave permission, somewhat presumptuously, for the candidates to distribute posters, he did so under the impression that posters were ordinarily contrary to the rules.

The board owes it to the student body in general and the candidates in particular to clarify this issue—it’s unfair for some to have this advantage and some not. The special permission given two candidates this week was granted on the shaky explanation that they had no other means of getting their programs before the people, since THE DAVIDSONIAN had denied them a right to publish their platforms. A simple check with the bylaws again would have made it clear that provision has been made for candidates for Union president to distribute platforms in the same manner as other candidates who have not been fortunate enough to have had their platforms printed in the paper in preceding years. And there would supposedly have been a similar provision made for the president of the Social Council, had the Student Council taken the trouble to revise their bylaws in the two years since the Social Council was instituted.

If the Student Council should get rid of any restrictions on posters, it would be taking a step, albeit a minor one, forward in streamlining the elections system. But it shouldn't be done on the specious grounds that this newspaper has denied them a voice. Minor distortions of the election rules are a dime a dozen, as becomes readily obvious on a casual reading of the rules. The difference is that most violations indicate a sloppiness in administration; to have the ban on posters inconsistently enforced puts certain candidates at a disadvantage.

...And Anachronism

And speaking of election rules. The Student Council, acting as guardian of the student body’s morals, has demonstrated its naivete in refusing to modernize the voting system by removing the ban on bloc voting. If council members would take their heads out of the sand, they would see that bloc voting goes on in subtle ways already. Examples of fraternity men covertly agreeing to swap votes is not at all unusual. Yet one of the arguments given against the deletion of that section dealing with bloc voting was a fear that a party system would encourage a split along fraternity-independent lines.

The truth of the matter is that fraternity men have a ready-made organization mobilized for their support. Brotherly love, or, more properly, the desire for a fraternity to gain campus prestige, ordinarily commits most members of a house to support its members. Independents, on the other hand, have no structure within which they can work to boost their support, unless, of course, they organize their own combine. But they are forbidden by the anachronistic rule against organized campaigning.

The split in student opinion over subsidized athletics demonstrates there exists considerable feeling on a vital issue, feeling that transcends the fraternity-independent division. What removing the ban on bloc voting would do is open the way for students in agreement on a legislative program to organize a group allowing them to work as a unit, rather than 12 individuals going off in pursuit of a pet project. It allows people to vote as a bloc because of common goals, rather than “brotherhood.” By leaving the rule as it is, the council has left Student Council politics as they’ve always been: informal, low pressure, and ineffective.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Editor's Position On Athletics Challenged

Dear Editor:

Louis Lesesne’s editorial in the Feb. 24th DAVIDSONIAN headlined “Athletics Again” disturbs us with four of its points. One is misrepresenting, one untrue, another incomplete, and a fourth presumptuous. We know what Mr. Le-

ACTUALLY, I HAVE BEGUN TO RECONSIDER MY POSITION ON FRATERNITIES

After The ‘Flu’

Dear Editor:

We had not seen a copy of THE DAVIDSONIAN in some time until a friend presented us with a copy of your edition of Feb. 24. We were delighted to see that your paper was still endeavoring “to vigorously strive to keep the significant events of the college community before its readers,” regardless of how many infinitives the editor splits in the process.

We were also impressed with the vast range of projects that you and your writers felt they were capable of solving—the Vietnam War, the National Peace Council, the college lecture series, the college bookstore, the physical education department, the college laundry, subsidized athletics, and the Living Endowment. We confess we were a little disappointed that no mention was made of a college barbershop, as from the looks of some of the students we have seen lately we do feel that the local tonsorial parlors could stand some improvement.

Although our limited intellectual resources preclude our commenting on all of the subjects, we would like to make a few remarks on three of them in particular—the lecture series, subsidized athletics, and the Living Endowment.

The lecture series, we submit, may be the victim of the same sort of blight that overwhelmed Davidson athletic teams of not too long ago. They may not be subsidized enough. You are probably expecting a professional lecturer at an amateur price, and the answer could well be that we alumni will have to dig even deeper to beef up the Living Endowment so that...Your guest lecturers will be brought up to the same high intellectual level as the present Davidson student body. Then too, you may not have thought that the prospective lecturers may have also read your good paper, and be a little hesitant to speak to a student body made up of scholars who already know it all.

On athletics, it might be better just to ask you one question—which is more hypocritical, to subsidize them under strict college control as far as admissions and scholastic standing is concerned, or to ask students to play intercollegiate sports against teams that subsidize? Or make the question shorter—if you stop subsidizing, who are you going to play?

Your letter writers are concerned that Davidson's reputation as an educational institution has suffered as a result of unbalanced publicity regarding athletics. We were far more concerned for years with the reputation of Davidson as a college for men. As far as we were concerned, if there is no place at Davidson for the type of young men that Homer Smith and Lefty Driesell have recruited, then Davidson has lost its reason for existence. If you want to turn the school over to the type of intellectual that already knows all the answers, then let’s just have a graduate school and forget intercollegiate athletics entirely.

Finally, the Living Endowment. You might be surprised at the percentage of alumni who would like nothing better than to divorce the Wildcat Club completely from the Living Endowment, although we hope that this never happens. We have enjoyed for years the fact that we can tell our friends who are graduates of other colleges, that of every dollar we contribute to Davidson, only a certain percentage goes to athletic scholarships. We know of no other nearby school that has such a policy, and until you are yourself an alumnus, you will never realize what type of an image this balanced program has projected. When your student letter writers become alumni and dues-paying contributors to the Living Endowment, we are sure that the entire alumni association will welcome their suggestions as to how the funds are distributed. Until that time, we would respectfully suggest that they devote their time to improving the intellectual climate of the college, in which they seem more interested.

A. W. SHUFORD, ‘36
P. W. BUMBARGER, Jr., ‘41
R. B. BUMBARGER, ‘50
Hickory

It is disgusting to read in THE DAVIDSONIAN the editorial, “Athletics Again.” It is not particularly surprising, however, since this is a typical college newspaper editorial. Most boys who somehow become editors of college newspapers feel it is their responsibility to be opposed to some phase of the college's activities, and this is your week to attack our athletic program. What will it be next week?

I was surprised, however, at some of the names appearing as signers of the letter-to-the-editor in the same issue. I recognize some of these boys as being ex-athletes. Did they really read this letter before they signed it? I notice that they are concerned about the amount of our Living Endowment which goes to athletics. I firmly believe that alumni giving to the Living Endowment and their interest in the college would decline greatly if our subsidized athletic program was eliminated. More alumni are giving more money than ever before and our successful basketball program has played a large role in this.

I would agree that Davidson's reputation as an educational institution has suffered, but I believe it might be because of some unbalanced students rather than “unbalanced publicity.” Certainly the athletic teams receive more publicity than any other part of our college, but is it necessarily their fault? Let our Math Department come up with something exciting and interesting and I am sure the newspapers will give them their share of the publicity.

H. L. RUTH, Jr., ‘53
Fayetteville

We do not believe that any of these schools has a goal in intercollegiate competition that Davidson should copy; and, as for the use of the word “professional,” we resent it. The committee interviewed 75 people at Davidson. Only one of those is directly concerned with intercollegiate athletics. The membership of that committee and the 1/75 ratio bothers us as we hear people support their arguments by referring to the Report. Incidentally, the Report contains a recommendation that Davidson consider awarding full scholarships based on merit. The University of North Carolina's Morehead Scholarship is mentioned as an example. If this were done, one of the arguments against full scholarships for athletics would be eliminated.

The writer of the editorial states that “it would be difficult for the trustees to ignore such a concerted protest on the part of student body leaders.” The concern of those leaders about the “formula” should and will get trustee attention; however, the writer makes the above statement after two paragraphs about “subsidizing” and “professional” and not one word about the formula. If the trustees will have difficulty ignoring the “concerted protest,” they might also have some trouble overlooking this.

We have difficulty imagining a Davidson without the athletes who can represent us at the major college level of competition. We are pleased to have Wayne Huckel and Jimmy Poole in our student body, and we know they would not be here if we did not subscribe to the NCAA policy on athletic scholarships.

MIKE ABEL
ED ARMFIELD
STEVE BALES
MIKE BOOE
TOM BROWN
BEN CANNON
PAUL CURLEE
MAC DAVIS
GARY DEVANE
JOHN FAGG
JULIAN FITE
VINCE FOSTER
RONNIE HUNT
JOE JELKS
GEORGE LEIGHT
BAYARD MILLER
FRANK MURPHY
MAC OTTS
BARRY ST. CLAIR
KIRK REED
BILL RIKARD
JIM TIMMONS
BILL WEBB

Davidson College Senior Football Players Cite Benefits Of Sport

Dear Editor:

In reaction to the letter printed in the Feb. 24th issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN which questioned the value of the school’s football and basketball programs as they exist today, we, the graduating seniors of the 1966 football team, make the following statement:

We believe that we have profited immeasurably by participating in one of these programs. When we accepted our grants-in-aid we realized that we would be expected to make sacrifices, but we do not think that those sacrifices “impeded our education.” The participation gave us something which we would not have been able to get in any other activity. As athletes who love football we wanted to play the game to the best that was in us, and we were given an opportunity to do that.

We hope earnestly that this great school will always be attractive to the serious students who desire to excel in football. It will not be if NCAA specification athletic scholarships are not available. Just how Davidson's subscription to NCAA rules and regulations and its striving for excellence in intercollegiate athletics is “out of line with the educational purposes of the college” we do not understand.

We believe strongly that Davidson should continue its subsidization of athletics; and we can say with emphasis that we would make the same decision now that we made four years ago.

TOM DEWS
JOE GADDY
RENN GRUBER
TUCKER LAXTON
CLAUDE OWEN
BILL RIKARD
GARY WALDRON
JOHN WALKER
BILL WEBB
Davidson College

Lack Of Support Embarrasses Team

Dear Editor:

You have given the athletic department a hard time on many issues including the ticket situation at basketball games. You seemed to have some valid points until I attended the last two games in Johnston Gym. The student turnout was poor for the Richmond game and embarrassing (to the team) for the V.M.I. game. Maybe this was a stay-away protest or maybe the Wildcats must be nationally ranked to draw the students. With this kind of turnout I can’t see that the student ticket problem is any problem at all.

AL GAITHER, ‘56
Davidson College