The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1967

Lesson In Contrast

The appointment to the Board of Visitors of Terry Sanford, perhaps North Carolina's greatest education governor, and Dr. James Dickson Phillips, dean of the University of North Carolina law school, brings to mind one of the chief drawbacks of Davidson’s present trustee system. With the addition of Sanford and Phillips, the Board of Visitors now has more men noted for their contributions to education than does the Board of Trustees. Dr. Sam Spencer, president of Mary Baldwin College, and Dr. Frank Hall, professor at Wilmington College, are the only trustees directly concerned with education. The other trustees are either businessmen or men from professions other than education. Thirty-nine of the 51 trustees are elected by various branches of the Presbyterian Church. The Alumni Association picks the rest. The result of this election process is that all but a few are Davidson graduates. On the other hand, only five men on the Board of Visitors were graduated from Davidson.

On the basis of these contrasts, it would seem that the college would be better off to give to the Board of Visitors the functions of the trustees and let the trustees become another Wildcat Club. But because the membership of the Board of Visitors has even less time to devote to Davidson than do the trustees, such a move would not be desirable. But noting the contrast between the make-up of the Board of Visitors and the trustees should indicate that changes need to be made in the trustee system. It is an unpleasant fact of life that it is practically impossible for the trustees to meet more often at the college. This is a fact that must be assumed to be largely unchangeable. Another fact that will probably not be changed is that the trustees have little communication among themselves or with the college between semi-annual meetings. This means that they have little chance to keep abreast of the changes taking place around the school.

Because Davidson has provided most of the undergraduate experience for the trustees, they are unlikely to be intimately aware of the alternatives to the Davidson system. The only other experience that most of them have had has been in seminary or graduate school where the problems are not the same as the ones faced by Davidson and the student here. The fact that so few of the trustees are primarily concerned with education means that they are not even generally aware of the changes in that profession. As much as THE DAVIDSONIAN claims otherwise, very definite changes are being made in the college’s situation.

Because of their limited experience and knowledge, it is hard for the trustees to comprehend the changes, opportunities, and problems facing the school. They are more likely to be affected by pressures from their presbytery or from their local businessmen friends to maintain the old concepts of excellence for the school. The problem of course is that the old standards of excellence are often not as valid in this changing world as are more modern standards. What Davidson needs to do is to apply to its trustee selection some of the same consideration used in making up the Board of Visitors. It needs to increase the number of educators among the trustees. It needs to draw upon men whose experience is not limited to Davidson. The trustees themselves need to spend every possible effort to keep up with the changes in the college. While the Board of Trustees itself is the only group with the authority to make changes in its selection process, presbyteries and alumni should put more thought into the men that they select under the present system. At the same time, these groups with the help of the President’s Office and the Alumni Office should exert their considerable influence upon the trustees to reduce the percentage of trustees elected by presbyteries, to give the faculty a voice in the trustee selection process, and to look outside the set of Davidson alumni to find trustees who are not so bound to local traditions.

No Wonder

Dare, the magazine with the motto “Life Should be Led Like a Cavalry Charge,” dashed into the field of race relations this month to provide an answer for the question about the origin of black power. In an article by a Miss Susan Brown entitled “I Hate George Thackery,” Dare makes the point that legitimate gripes against an individual are sometimes stifled because the individual belongs to a minority race. But Miss Brown inadvertently sheds some light on the origins of Black Power. In order to make her main point more effective she tries to show that she has no racial prejudice. She belabors the point so much that one gets the idea that she must even consider herself some sort of martyr. To prove her broadmindedness, she writes, “When I was in college I belonged to a civil rights group and I was even a very close friend of a guy who got arrested at a sit-in at Howard Johnson’s.” Is it any wonder that Negroes have come to mistrust white liberals who are content to prove their dedication to the blacks by pointing to friends who are civil rights workers?

Fruitless Delay

As the work of the Student Body Constitution Revision Committee drags along, it is beginning to appear that its effort is being wasted. Although the student body has been kept pretty much in the dark about what the committee is discussing, it can get some idea of what has been done by referring to information that was released by the committee last spring. At that time the committee was thinking in terms of streamlining the present system by reorganizing the executive branch of the student government to make it more efficient. There was also some talk of reorganizing the judiciary branch to provide the means for ruling on the constitutionality of any future legislation. A student bill of rights was also being considered as a possible addition to the constitution. As far as the general student body knows, the ideas proposed last spring are still in the making. One thing discussed last spring as a possibility, however, has obviously been changed. That is the timetable for presenting the revised constitution to the student body. Originally the schedule called for the presentation of at least a draft by early fall. November finds us still waiting for such a draft. If the committee had decided to go off on a different tack from the ideas discussed last spring, the delay would be understandable. Apparently, however, the delay is simply being caused by constant haggling over details that are to fit within the same old system. A desire for perfection is admirable, but that desire will never justify the revision committee’s stalling until it leads them to explore some basic departure from the ideas of last spring. Then the idea of a bill of rights and a constitutional court were essentially just icing on the present plain cake. The revision of the executive only amounted to making the old system more effective by adding efficiency by means of centralization and by cutting away deadwood. It failed to take note of the increasing communication that has grown up informally among all areas of campus government, including the faculty, administration, and trustees. Instead, it maintained the fast becoming outdated idea that the students govern themselves in some way that is segregated from the rest of the campus. If the revision committee is ever going to propose a new constitution to the student body, then it should give it one that recognizes the changing realities and opportunities on the campus. Otherwise, the committee’s hard work will be wasted and the long wait by the student body will have been in vain.

No Holiday

While we wait for the new day that is supposed to come out of the Blue Sky for Davidson, one change should be made soon to correct an injustice done to language professors here. While other departments at least enjoy the theory of a sabbatical year for professors, the German and French departments do not benefit from the idea. The Junior Year Abroad, from which many students profit greatly, has become a real drawback to the professors who accompany them on this learning experience. Through some bit of warped reasoning, that year of advising about 15 students in a strange land is considered to be enough of a break for the professor to compensate for the lack of a sabbatical year. Does anyone really think that running the foreign end of the Junior Year Abroad for a year gives the professor any time to increase his own teaching skills or subject proficiency?

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Man’s Transcendence Hit As Part Of ’17 Revolution

Dear Editor,

During the coming week, there shall be observed in several places throughout the world the first half-century of the Soviet Union and of The Revolution. Millions of human beings will celebrate this event, but it is not altogether an unreasonable supposition that the ultimate significance of November, 1917, will be lost. The Revolution is neither military nor political in nature but is rather an intellectual, ideological, and indeed, pseudo-religious movement. It is an idea, and its goal is conversion. It advances a concept of man which is fundamentally opposed to that basic to Western civilization. It presents a being with infinite rather than finite capabilities, a being perfectible, if not perfect, in every attribute, a being upon which there are no limits imposed by the nature of its creation. Within this century, perhaps within a few short years, poverty, disease, hatred, and fear will be banished, and mankind will have reached the Heaven on Earth, the Utopia, the Great Society. Man will determine for himself that which is Good, Truth, Beauty, Justice, which are held to be not transcendental absolutes but cultural institutions. Man is the ultimate being, the measure of all things. God, indeed, is dead, and man the inheritor of His kingdom. The imperfections in man’s past and present are attributed to ignorance and superstition and to the institutions which they have engendered and sustained. These, which include religion, private property, the family, and government, together with those malevolents who defend them, must be eliminated as hindrances to the apotheosis of mankind. Such is the significance of The Revolution. It is a manifestation of the eternal revolt of the arrogance of man against the majesty of God, now decked out in academic robes, dignified by the scientific appellation, presented as economic theory. Man in reality occupies no such exalted place in the universe, nor possesses such high attributes. He is a creature, besieged with desire and passion, hatred and lust. He is imperfect, selfish, and miserably finite. In short, he is human. Impiety and sacrilege notwithstanding, any ideology which would ignore, or any policy which would correct this imperfect finitude, threatens Man’s humanity. This inhuman goal of revolution requires, and has required, inhuman means. You can’t make an omelet without breaking eggs, nor a revolution without breaking heads. Man must not be “exalted” to a being bereft of all that is truly human, a denizen fit only for a BraveNew World. When The Revolution seems so easily accepted and so often emulated by those who would lead Western civilization, it becomes the duty of any who would oppose and hinder its achievement to publish their views and to repudiate these leaders. Yours in Counterrevolution. Hugh J. Beard, Jr. '68 Davidson College

Year Abroad Not Just A Good Deal

Dear Editor,

Three weeks ago, a column appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN written by Heyward Carter, describing why the Junior Year Abroad Program is one of the "best set of deals" offered by the college. The description was true, as far as it went, but it was misleading. Either his description is his real view of the year, or one that he thought would interest the student body, or else I did not understand some of the implications that he was trying to make. I agree, the year is all of what he listed, but the implications of the column left it at the level of least importance and least meaning. If that description is one on the level of least importance and least meaning, what does one on a higher level include? My answer is that it includes all of that which Carter said—with different implications of meaning, and it includes an academic side.

Yes, you can travel a great deal, but this travel is for people, museums, cities, architecture, countryside... experiences. Yes, you can take a weekend in Paris or Madrid, or Munich or Berlin, not to drink beer and discuss your latest date, but for concert, drama, important friends, a deeper understanding of both people and cities. Yes, there is at least a girl-boy ratio but here there is no comparison with Davidson social life. Yes, you can have a light workload, if that is your desire, but the opportunities are among the greatest here in areas where Davidson can never compete, especially in foreign languages and literature. And that is what makes the year worthwhile when it is viewed as the junior year of your college education abroad.

But I see two ways in which you are "screwed." Davidson does not push the student in the language enough so that much of the most fascinating academic work can be begun as soon as you arrive at the university. And once there, the student does not push himself enough so that he can take advantage of the academic, and educational, opportunities that are present there. The year should not be called a "good deal," at least not when related to the idea of a liberal education. There it can be most difficult, made so by the things which confront you as an individual: people, situations, and values, all critical of the life that you probably have known up to that time. The dependence on yourself may be a second of the best aspects of the year. Once there with yourself, you have the opportunities. Once back at Davidson, you see where you failed yourself, but in that, you may be better prepared for the next opportunities.

Pete Gaskell '68 Davidson College

Student Power Real Goal Is Respect, Influence

By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer

Since the Free Speech Movement began at Berkeley three years ago, student power has been one of the most talked-about issues on college campuses across the nation. Two weeks ago the issue again rose to the forefront as 50,000 students or more invaded the nation’s Capitol City for a protest peace demonstration. In a recent issue, Newsweek discussed the problems of student power in 1967 and quoted one senior at Mary Washington College as saying, "We want the right to be wrong." At Davidson, we would say that students want the power to affect decisions which directly affect them.

Davidson is not traditionally known for its demonstrations or protest marches. Students have learned that the quieter methods of change are usually the most effective, at least at Davidson. "A petition with 800 names on it is not half as good as a well-reasoned argument presented by one student to an administration member," one Student Council member commented recently.

A careful examination reveals that student power and influence are increasing rapidly on the Davidson campus. Students now serve as voting members on five faculty committees under the new faculty constitution, and have an influential voice on other committees. Through the Student Recruiting Program, students have a voice in the Admissions Department. Probably the biggest breakthrough in this area was the election last year of two students to the Blue Sky Committee and several others to various Blue Sky subcommittees. According to faculty members on the committee, their suggestions proved very helpful in many decisions. Even the trustees, who allowed students to attend their committee meetings for the first time, were favorably impressed with student ideas.

Students still lack the power to influence decisions in many areas. Sadly enough, however, many of us even enjoy playing the old game of Student vs. Faculty. The problem we are discussing is one of communication. As the walls that stood between students and faculty begin to crumble, the lines of communication begin to open up. This is happening all too slowly though, for this is a change which has been long overdue. The key to opening up these lines of communication is a little give-and-take on both sides. Since the administration has previously held almost complete control over student life, they will have to relinquish some of their power to the students by allowing more representation on committees and more influence in decision-making and by listening with attentive ears when the Student Council recommends a change.

The road is a two-way street, however. To merit this increase in control over their own lives, the students’ response must be a mature one. Students who are on faculty committees must take a responsible part in the committee’s work and show interest in what is going on. Others can alleviate their responsibilities by finding out who these committee members are and taking to them the suggestions which usually never leave the dormitory room or fraternity house.

If the proposed Student Body Constitution is accepted, there will be many more positions open in student government than presently exist. The responsibility rests with each student to find the area in which he is interested and offer his services. Responsibility goes farther than merely serving on committees, though: it extends to the personal lives of all students. Many students are constantly clamoring for control over their drinking habits, and many faculty members are sympathetic to their problem. Yet other faculty members point out that students who have shown no more care for the college's dormitories than Davidson students have, do not deserve the drinking privilege. Their point is valid. Several thousand dollars worth of damage in the dormitories last year is nothing "to shake a stick at." The inevitable conclusion is that when students begin to do their part, the administration will begin to do its part.

Our situation is not analogous to that of the students protesting against President Johnson in Washington. Davidson is simply an ideal situation in which students and administration can work together to solve their problems. Dr. Philip B. Secor, much beloved professor of political science at Davidson who departed last year, expressed the idea much better than I can: "It is the excellence of spirit or character in the persons at Davidson which defines the life of this community... The spirit which so often has seemed to me present at Davidson goes beyond mere toleration for another's views and affirms instead a fundamental respect for the persons who express these views."

Student power at Davidson does not mean marches and demonstrations. It means that students want to become a more influential part of the community and ask the administration to show more respect for their views.

The Bulletin

By HEYWARD CARTER Associate Editor

Unsacred Cow Better Than Draft

One of the least sacred of all cows at Davidson resides in the basement of Belk. There can be found among students pro and con adherents to every question or issue here whether it be athletics, fraternities, the Blue Sky Committee, or even the drinking rules. There is dissension, that is, concerning every issue but one—the status of the Davidson ROTC department. To knock ROTC is one of Davidson’s oldest and dearest traditions—everyone does it and probably at one time or another everyone has a good reason to, especially the somewhat more than reluctant MS I and II Tuesday afternoon soldiers. But mention an occasional good point or two about the program and it's generally decided you’ve been brainwashed by the basement Gestapo or that you're naturally "gung-ho ROTC," either of which disqualifies you from being capable of making any sane statements.

All of which obscures the fact that there actually are some good points to the ROTC program, and both of them are pretty substantial ones. First is the fact that ROTC is simply the lesser of two evils—the greater being the draft. Six semesters of spit shines, rifle cleaning and sore feet once a week are worth three draft-dodging free years of graduate school to a lot of people. This may not be too important to a great number of freshmen or even sophomores, but Vietnam is a lot farther away from Cannon and East than it is from Little or Richardson. A senior in ROTC at least knows definitely that he will serve for two years and that in most cases he has at least two or three years before he has to start, and further, that he will be an officer when he finally gets there. The juniors and seniors in advanced ROTC seem to prefer this to an alternative of three years as an OCS officer or, for those who play the draft and lose, two years as a private.

To some of us the years of drill and brass polishing and six weeks of eating dust at Fort Bragg just isn’t worth the $50 a month it nets. But for others it's the only reason for being in the program. ROTC is a big business at Davidson and it’s a cash business. Last month nearly $25,000 was sent from the Department of the Army to the Davidson ROTC Department for distribution among MS III and IV students and boys on ROTC scholarships. A monthly check to the department averages around $15,000, and for the year approximately $185,000 is paid to the 16 full scholarship students and juniors and seniors in the program. Some of us it helps—it helps a lot.

All of which sounds pretty much like a typical ROTC pitch. It’s not. There are some extremely, to say the least, questionable aspects of the program—the first two required years, in particular—and, with many of us, the draft program in general. But the draft is fact and it may be a long time, if ever, before it is altered or abolished; the two-year requirement is also fact, although student will, if it is such, may help to change that. The point is, everyone, no matter how much he might bitch about the program, owes it to himself not to overlook the possibility that for him it may be a way of making the best out of a bad deal.