The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1967

For The Young

For years there have been vague hints about the possibility of eventually hiring an artist-in-residence here, though until now nothing
concrete has been done. The prospect has ordinarily been promoted in connection with fund drives, with the idea that “there
will be an artist on the campus when we get the money.” Now it appears that the money is around,
though how much and for exactly what purpose is not exactly clear. But the Dean of the Faculty has enough
assurance of the money's being available that he invited a prestigious American poet to remain at Davidson for several months.

The artist-in-residence concept is an attractive one and much needed at Davidson. The admission that funds are available is the
first step toward implementing the program. But the direction indicated in the dean’s choice of artists suggests a misconception of
what the plan could and should be. Granted, Donald Davidson has contributed more than his share to American letters, but
his contribution does not make him an ideal figure for a resident artist program. A much more vital program would
incorporate plans for bringing in new and unrecognized, though promising, talent, to remain on campus. Much as College Union Director
C. Shaw Smith has evolved a plan for utilizing young entertainment talent, a plan that is beneficial both to the
college and the entertainer, so could both aspiring artists and the college well benefit from the experience of using untried
literary talent.

While figures such as Mr. Davidson obviously carry a great deal more prestige than do unpublished poets, it is the
younger artists who are able to establish rapport with student feeling and who are more aware of current trends and
themes. Dr. Davidson is a product of the Depression, while contemporary college students lack even a recollection of World War
II. The so-called Generation Gap stares us in the face. For purely financial reasons as well, younger, less established artists
have more to offer. Lacking a reputation, they can demand less in compensation, and the college can get more mileage
from its hard-earned dollar. The situation would be ideal for the young writer: a sufficient income, an opportunity to write,
and contact with interested college students.

Those Empty Balcony Seats

One little noticed advantage accompanying the renovated auditorium in Chambers is the decreased seating capacity. But the advantage comes not
so much from having fewer people sitting on the main floor, but rather for the first time having someone in
the balcony at the thrice weekly assemblies. Faculty attendance at chapel talks has always been notoriously lax; while students dutifully
file to their appointed seats in order to find their niche in the friendly IBM computer, more faculty members can
be found chit-chatting over coffee than taking in the morning’s speech.

It’s difficult to know what stance one should take toward assembly and the faculty’s attitude toward it. If the old
line about the benefits from hearing diverse opinions such as are expressed in assembly are valid for students, they are
just as much so for the faculty. The situation is fairly clear in the majority of cases. The administration, having
made a commitment to three assemblies a week, feels a certain obligation to fill them, no matter what the quality
of speaker. Consequently, more often than not the lectern is filled by a local minister who has talked at too
many Wednesday night prayer meetings and local politicians who are stuck on the American Legion circuit. Such speakers have little
to say, and what they do have has been said on numerous occasions before. Certainly no one would blame faculty
members from absenting themselves on such occasions—students themselves merely endure rather than absorb in the circumstances.

Such speakers’ greatest contribution is to cast doubt on the basic integrity of the assembly system as a whole, or
at least on its administration. But the trend of faculty attendance at assemblies goes beyond the unofficial boycott of run-of-the-mill
speakers—even for the singularly outstanding speakers that infrequently find their way to Davidson, faculty attendance is less than ideal. In
fact, it is downright poor. A turnout of approximately one-third of the faculty for the semester’s most stimulating speaker recently
was considered an encouraging sign.

What is needed is an honest approach to the entire chapel assembly structure. If it’s going to be maintained, why
not have competent speakers and genuine faculty interest? If neither is forthcoming, why not agree to suspend the whole operation?

HALCYON INDIFFERENCE IN HARD TIMES

Aging Youth Ignore Mission To Reshape World

From the Boston University BU NEWS
The Collegiate Press Service

If there is something about age which deactivates the sexual organs, dissipates the political impetus, and eliminates all hope in
a sea of despair, then we are surely on the brink of some colossal end, for our students are growing
old when they have scarcely begun to be young. Their youth alone will allow them to practice their sexuality maturely
and without either adolescent prurience or elderly cynicism, to foment a political revolution which strikes at the heart of the
established “values,” to reject in the academic community that which is fabricated or false. But there is no place for
youthful, halcyon indifference in a world methodically destroying itself in a maze of textual footnotes, subway clatter, pills, television fancies,
packaged beauty, “show” Negroes, napalm bombs, and gilt-edged murder. Every infant, as a popular song tells, is born with the
ghostly inheritance of 20 tons of TNT and an adult responsibility which makes simplicity all but impossible.

Like all the old, we will die. And why should we be concerned when the monstrous cloud will not lighten,
the harlot still walks the streets, and the educator teaches cant and sullen introspection? We are getting old, growing up,
and the odds are against our making any news. A. J. Muste was old, 82, but he made news. His
charm and freshness hung about him like the flesh on his pointed cheek-bones. He had an inner light, a seriousness
which kept him on planes, in jail, and at his desk working against war. He did not betray his common
humanity, but remained a man. In this sense, he never lost his potency.

Tom Hayden and Paul Potter are old, nearing 30. They helped found Students for a Democratic Society when the notion
of politically-aware students was almost inconceivable, and they now run the Newark Community Action Project and the Educational Cooperative of
Boston, respectively. Even though their tenacity has not visibly affected American society, they continue to organize and activate on that
inner light, which says: Hard times may be ripe, Vietnamese children dead, and the spirit of poetry quite gone, but
I will stand for life, even if I stand alone. And what else is there to do, as adulthood approaches?
If life is truly a matter of keeping occupied for the sake of remaining something and somebody, then not even
Hiroshima, or the statistical analysis of American business trends abroad, or the saccharine fraudulence of the airline stewardess' smile, can
defeat us.

The young must be mature enough to take power, now, and to build it imaginatively, or they will surely not
be any more able to shape their own ends than their elders have been. If the war is confusing, and
it surely is, they must send their own observers to it to see it plain, without asking the University's permission
or the world's. They must do it, move, and be serious. If the war is moreover immoral, they must refuse
to fight in it, and

Universities In France In Need Of ‘Middle Step’

Dear Editor:

Many American students, bogged down in their systematic educational process with its constant emphasis on grades, think that the European
system of “independent study” is surely more favorable for the development of the truly educated person. College students in the
States must learn to make their rather mechanical system work for them rather than against them, though the complicated network
of reviews, pop tests, required classes, and grades often lead the student into a kind of four-year ritual of the
system’s organization rather than a discovery of the real education for which this organization is meant to be only a
guide.

In France, a student has his specialty in mind as early as the age of 13 or 14, while still
in a lycee (similar to our high school). The lycee graduate enters one of several faculties dispersed throughout the city,
choosing the one which treats his specialty. The distinction between our system and the French one is important. We follow
an ABC approach: high school, college or university, and graduate school pending a desire to specialize. In France, however, the
middle step is missed, and all that's available after the lycee, if one wishes to continue, is to specialize. As
I see it, the middle step is vitally important if the truly educated person is to exist.

‘Know-It-All’

The American system encourages the multitude of students to progress steadily, despite (or because of) its rigorous grading techniques. In
France, the more liberal system, giving the student the freedom we often desire, seems a disaster for the masses. It
turns them out sluggishly into society without having seriously pressured them to excel or educate themselves as they must in
such a system. I should emphasize that it may remain an ideal system for the individual who has a clear
idea of his interests and goals. I cannot see the average French student as more aware or more critical of
the socio-political situation of his country than the American student is of his, though it would appear the French educational
system should encourage this. Ostensibly, the pamphleteering of certain student groups indicates a more activist-minded trend in student opinion here.
But actually most French students dwell within the same rather passive atmosphere that is evident on the American campus in
questions of national politics, social and cultural developments, and the like—not an attitude of indifference, but neither one which is
constantly expressed.

When I said the majority here does not fit into the system, this is not to say the students won't
eventually get by:

Students Find Staunch Defender

Dear Editor:

Messrs. Shuford, Bumbarger Jr., and Bumbarger (letters to the editor, March 3, 1967) are a comfort to a weary alumnus.
No longer need I be apprehensive that my alma mater is being turned over to you and your long-haired cohorts
who consider yourselves “capable of solving—the Vietnam War, the National Peace Council, the college lecture series, the college book store,
the physical education department, the college laundry, subsidized athletics and the Living Endowment.” The omniscient intellectuals can return to their
cloisters. I realize now that my fears have been naught but illusions. Davidson is a perfectly normal institution: she has
alumni who already know “all the answers.”

But, in entrusting you boys “of Genius and other Good Dispositions” to the “Care and Discipline” of these gentlemen, I
should like to request that they treat your puerile fulminations with a tolerance as bountiful as their years, that they
be forgiving of your adolescent splits with stylistic orthodoxy. I believe their Ciceronian allusion to your use of infinitives was
a bit too harsh. In your excessive concern with the problems of Davidson and the world beyond, you cannot be
expected to be familiar with such standard reference works as Fowler's Modern English Usage. You could not possibly have known
that the English-speaking world may be divided into (1) those who neither know nor care what a split infinitive is;
(2) those who do not know, but care very much; (3) those who know and condemn; (4) those who know
and approve; and (5) those who know and distinguish.” Those in the first group “are the vast majority, and are
a happy folk, to be envied by most of the minority classes.” Those in the second group are a wretched
lot who “betray byHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Their practice that their aversion to the split infinitive springs not from instinctive good taste, but from tame acceptance of
the misinterpreted opinion of others: for they will subject their sentences to the queerest distortions, all to escape imaginary split
infinitives.” And Fowler? He obviously lends his support to the fifth group: “A real split infinitive, though not desirable in
itself, is preferable to either of two things, to real ambiguity, and to patent artificiality.” Remember: to be understood really,
editorial writers must strive to equip better themselves.

CHARLES L. DIBBLE
Paris XV

They will finally progress and enter a profession. But I can't help feeling they would be glad to be subjected
to our three-step education before specializing, even with its constant grading. Between high school and graduate school, we have an
opportunity for a kind of specializing in the liberal arts, and we can decide clearly whether we want to continue
on to graduate school—an advantage I think France should recognize and weave into its own system.

JIM McLAUGHLIN
Montpellier, France

Draft Alternative Equally Unfair

Dear Editor:

Last week’s DAVIDSONIAN contained two articles concerning a petition circulating the campus dealing with service in the Peace Corps or
VISTA as an alternative to the military draft. While this petition has obviously been undertaken with the best of motives,
it appears that at least one cogent argument has been denied consideration.

It is fairly well acknowledged that the military draft in the United States is unfair. It discriminates against the poor,
the uneducated, and collectively against the Negro community. The present rate of induction for the draft-age Negro is some 20
percent above that of the rest of the population. It would follow that any changes undertaken to remedy the conscription
problem should be done with the goal of correcting this disparity in percentages.

One article was quoted as saying that the applicant for the service corps must meet “stringent” qualifications in order to
be accepted. These qualifications would certainly include a college degree or college experience. Thus the socially deprived classes would receive
no alternative to military service. Adoption of a program such as the petition advocates would increase the disparity by class
or income found in the draft rather than reduce it; because the approval of the petition's plan would favor the
educated and the economically sounder groups.

While not being one to debate either upon the morality of the war in Vietnam or champion the cause of
minorities without reason, I do feel that correction of the present draft situation must proceed along strictly equalitarian lines. A
man’s service in the Peace Corps might well be valuable to the country, but his service for pay cannot be
equated with the condition of one who pays for his service with his life. I would urge all Davidson students
who believe that the U.S. military draft should be changed to wipe out discriminatory practices in selection to give careful
thought to the results of this petition before supporting it.

SAM GWYNN
Davidson College

The Gospel must stand by their youthful faith. They must make news. If the University’s dormitory policies are ill-conceived and
inhumane, they must disobey, for free men cannot make choices if they succumb to tyranny. If education is irrelevant, they
will see through it, stage their Academic Revolution teach-ins, and begin to alter it radically. If moral standards are outdated
and inimical to human nature, they will make love, fornicate with impunity, display their youthful honesty and their blameless flesh.
Youth is faith, faith the root of all power, power the song and dance of life. Power is music and
harmony, sweetness out of disorder, the capacity to move at one’s will and to be young; age is weakness and
discord, blindness and sterility. Only the young, whatever their age, can sing, lead the cosmic dance, believe. By acting on
the strength of their convictions, they are sure of their goals, can reserve their energies and go on to a
serious challenge of the status quo. Precisely because they are young, they must emerge from the Almost Grown to the
Grown, and infiltrate the skeletal foundation of the society they have not built.

Song need not express joy; it often expresses determination, tragedy, or conviction. What is important, so to speak, is that
we must have something to sing about, something to say, and to believe. We must find the middle ground between
indifference and dogmatism—we must find conviction. Without such conviction, all is lost, the serious reforms unattainable, and we wait only
for the grave, which is not distant, and the state of nothingness. On the surface, there is no honest faith
left—a position in an insurance company, perhaps, and a suburban wife to inseminate, with suburban children to raise, but all
an anti-climax, a post-orgasm slumber. Human life is over: and the seed spent, where imagination fails. It is a matter
of life or death, of sexuality, intelligence and humanity or sterility, passive stupidity and a hideous Armageddon. The power is
clearly ours, for we can withhold our support from a society and an ethic which cannot exist without it. We
can have Student Congress open its own dorms with simple legal incorporation and a larger personal contribution from each student;
we can ignore the older and more pompous sexual morality until it no longer is taken seriously; we can tear
down the Roxbury slum and build a new community in its place; we can study war no more.

If we do not, while we are Almost-Grown, grow up with an intent seriousness of purpose to reshape in our
own image—in man’s image—the world that men have allowed themselves to believe is built in the image of God, then
we will be partner to Him in our delusion. We will kill and we will be self-righteous, and we will
grow truly old before our proper time—never—has come.

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

According to John

Sentimental Conclusions

I GUESS I am as sentimental as a senior can get. When I look back upon a year of semi-monthly
columns I can’t help but think of all the things I wish I had said. I have learned a lot,
especially about colleges in general and Davidson in particular, during the last year. One of the most important things I
have gained is an understanding of the nature of criticism. I don’t guess there is any institution in the world
more susceptible to sincere critical scrutiny than the college. And there are many elements of criticism which are obvious but
can bear discussion.

IT IS EASY to detract from a college and find fault with it. Unless a person gives his criticism direction
he is contributing nothing. We should all be aware of the implications of our criticism. When you criticize the administration
you are dealing with the element that runs the college; the faculty and administration are actually trying to do the
best they can to provide the strongest possible academic program. Criticism of students may fall under much the same category.
Most students are honestly concerned about the welfare of the college. To pass off student comment as unworthy of appraisal
is totally unjust. Student opinion is important and should be given an ear and an analysis. Contrary to some faculty
opinions most students are not concerned with how to get the diploma in the easiest possible manner. Most students want
to get all they can from their education.

FACULTY MEMBERS as a group have a greater understanding of the needs of the college than most of us are
willing to admit. They are on the faculty because they are qualified to make Davidson College the best possible place
to get a liberal arts education. They are not here to dominate the student’s life and see how many rules
they are able to force him to conform to. They are here because they want to be and because they
are concerned.

The usual tenure of a student at Davidson College is four years. During that time he generally comes to realize
the value of the education he is getting. At the same time he sees things that he doesn’t like, and
he may set out in a flurry to get things changed. Oftentimes he has overlooked the long-run picture which the
faculty views year in and year out. Thus the faculty is viewed as the most petrified body in the world.
Such an attitude is unjustified simply because, just like the building of Davidson College into what it is, change takes
time and patience.

VENOMOUS CRITICISM without any real purpose or direction is wholly out of place in the context of the college, an
institution where real concern should be evinced. The individual student has a real responsibility to himself and to his institution.
And this responsibility should be reflected in his criticism. We must all have an awareness of this quality, for without
it the desire to improve is useless.

I have often wondered why criticism is so rampant on the college campus. I believe it is due to the
fact that the members of the community are specialists in the field of intellectual creativity and concern. It is unfortunate
that there is often a wide gap opened between faculty and students, two elements with so much potential and ability
and so little real understanding of each other.

BUT THIS SITUATION is not beyond hope as long as the endless dialogue does not degenerate into cynicism and despair.
The problem is not really whether or not the two will continue to work together. Rather, it is a question
of whether or not they will continue to try to work together. The dichotomy exists and will always be there.
It is built into the system. But this does not mean that the faculty and the student body should cease
to try to improve its relationship. At Davidson there has been real progress along these very lines, and the future
looks even better. These interpersonal relationships are really what the liberal arts education is all about.

To ensure that this progress will continue to develop as it should there are certain statements that must be clearly
articulated from the proper quarters. The faculty must make clear its faith in the students of the institution. This is
much more than merely a faith in the ability of the students; it is a confidence that the average student
is really just that, a person who is concerned about people and interested in getting all he can from his
education.

THE STUDENT, on the other hand, must justify this renewed faith on the part of the professor by giving evidence
of his sense of responsibility and willingness to work things out in a cooperative effort. It is obvious that students
exert more influence than ever before on the formulation of their own educational environment. Along with this authority goes an
increase in the responsibility we have been talking about.

I have run the circle in writing the “Gospel” for an academic year. At the reader’s expense I have tried
out my ideas, some of which were new, some old, some contradictory. Writing a column such as this one is
enjoyable and educational because it is probably the best means of real expression in the news medium, and it allows
great latitude and ease of writing, especially in the realm of criticism.

THE EDITOR'S JOB is difficult because he must be objective and methodical in his criticisms where I can be nostalgic
and irrational if I choose. The writer of letters to the editor is often handicapped by lack of knowledge and
background on the subject he gets heated up about, and the fact that he is usually “hot” does not help.
The columnist is immune to issues of which he knows nothing; he doesn’t even have to consider them, and passion
only serves to give the column spice. The poor newsman cannot even get away with expressing an opinion, and if
he injects criticism, it is edited and deleted. The column is best and easiest of writing.

Instead of getting emotional about it and drawing all this to a close with a single summarizing moral, I'll just
take my prerogative as a columnist and end with this.

---
