WEATHER REPORT
Variable cloudiness tonight and partly cloudy Sunday. 40 percent chance of showers tonight. 60 percent chance tomorrow. Low tonight 69,
High tomorrow 80.

VOL. LVI

TOWARD A WORLD COMMUNITY

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1967

Chakravarty Expresses Faith in Mankind
Scholar-Idealist Drives For World Community
By KERN PARKER
Associate Editor

Dr. Amiya Chakravarty is an idealist, but, unlike most of that breed, one whose idealism is thoroughly believable and strangely
refreshing in these times of national and international tension. The soft-spoken Indian scholar and diplomat has some big ideas about
the future of the world and of mankind. He believes that a peaceful community of the world's nations is an
achievable ideal, and as he talks, his sincerity penetrates his impeccable accent, his listeners begin to believe along with him.

"It's not possible yet," he said in a DAVIDSONIAN interview at the College Union after his Tuesday night lecture, "it
can't be done until there is food for all, health for all and education for all. But, even at present,
we're definitely moving toward such a world community."

Basically, Chakravarty has faith in man and in man's desire to help others. "Look at the Peace Corps," he said.
"The youth of America are supposed to be dissatisfied, but when you give them something like this to do, an
opportunity to sacrifice for others, you really light up their eyes."

"A world community will have to be based on an idealized concept of man," he stated, emphasizing the main point
of his chapel speech. Schweitzer, Gandhi, and Hammarskjold all had such a concept, a view of man that is "sustained
by a reservoir of good will, faith, and love," and that emphasizes "the wholeness of man's spirit" and his essential
goodness.

The political implications of such a view of man and the world lead naturally to a consideration of the past
successes and future role of the chief international organization in existence today, the United Nations.

(See CHAKRAVARTY, Page 6)

Library Renovation Urged By Architect

A plan to remodel and expand Grey Memorial Library hit the stockpile of proposals centering around the question "what to
do about the library." Luther Lashmit, an architect associated with the firm Lashmit, Brown and Pollock of Winston-Salem, presented his
plan to the Library and Building and Grounds Committees on Monday. His plan calls for the addition of a new
front and more space to the present library. The new entrance would face north across campus to the Dana Science
building.

According to Robert Currie, college treasurer, it appears unlikely that Lashmit’s plan will be chosen as the solution to the
problem of inadequate space of the present library. Currie stated that he believed the consensus of opinion of committee members
was that it would be financially inadvisable to remodel the library, as opposed to building a new one. The costs
were close enough together to raise the question of another building," Currie said.

The two committees are currently deciding whether to build a new library, studying necessary requirements. Should the membership recommend building
a new library, the size and location would have to be discussed and decided upon. Currie reported that the possibility
of using the present library as an administration building is being discussed. If a new library is built, the Lashmit
report favored locating it in front of Watts and Little dorms to form a sort of quadrangle with the present
library, Chambers, and the Dana Science Building.

Richardson Scholars Present Series Of Recommendations
By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

Davidson's 18 Richardson Scholars presented the college with a series of recommendations this week designed to improve the Richardson Scholarship
program. The report proposes ways of bringing the foreign students into closer contact with the American students on campus.

"The Richardson Foundation intended Davidson College to benefit from their foreign guests," reasoned the report, "and at present this aspect
of the program is plainly not being fully exploited."

The report suggests that each Richardson Scholar rotate around the fraternity court, eating dinner at each fraternity house for a
two-week period of time while continuing all meals with the house to which he is permanently assigned.

Roger Ward, who spearheaded the writing of the report, explained, "Under the present system, I feel there is little enough
contact between the students and the Richardson Scholars."

The report suggests as a second step in realizing the potential of the program that a series of "cultural weekends"
be planned to allow the Richardson Scholars to introduce to regular Davidson students their native cultures. An experiment involving a
Japanese program is already being planned, the report points out. "He probably will have a Japanese style dinner, followed by
a presentation of something which introduces Japan—the dance or poetry and songs—and a Japanese movie," explained Richardson Yuseki. Tentatively the
program will be presented on May 20.

NEW IMAGE
Governments Need Belief In Humanity

Modern nations are capable of solving the problems of the world if they approach them with the proper concept of
man, contended Reynolds Lecturer Dr. Amiya Chakravarty in chapel Monday. Chakravarty—a native of India, teacher, author, poet, adviser to the
United Nations and interpreter of international affairs—was on campus Monday and Tuesday. He gave one other lecture, at Hodson Hall
on Monday night, and held several informal discussions with faculty and student groups.

In chapel Chakravarty used the idea of "images" to support his belief that all the world's problems are solvable if
modern nations adopt the proper concept of man. Dag Hammarskjold, Albert Schweitzer, and Mahatma Gandhi all had the proper concept
of man, a concept involving belief in the humanity (and in the divinity) of man and faith in the wholeness
of life spirit, he said. Schweitzer, he commented, "symbolizes the entire horizon of western man, and is the image of
what a man can do in our time."

Since each civilization projects an "image" of itself, western nations would do well to adopt this concept of man and
to apply it in their dealings with other nations. If man applies his rapid technological advances to the world with
this concept in mind, said Chakravarty, he can solve the world's problems and create a new world, an international community
of fellowship. Such a world, he believes, is an attainable goal, realizable in the "concern, commitment and continuing service" of
men like Schweitzer, Gandhi, and Hammarskjold.

Chakravarty's concept of man, with particular emphasis on man's humanity and divinity, was also central to his lecture Monday night
in Hodson Hall. He feels that a belief in man's humanity and divinity may be the common ground of all
the world's religions. "These ideas seem to me to be present in all religions," he said, "They may be the
basis of the essential religious experience."

ONE MORE CHANCE

The staff of the GAG and Miscellany have consistently gone down to defeat in the annual Spring Frolics croquet match
with THE DAVIDSONIAN, primarily because they have been afraid to show up. Just to be nice, THE DAVIDSONIAN once more
challenges them to a match at 10 a.m. tomorrow in front of Chambers Building.

An immediacy of feeling related to belief in man's humanity and divinity is basic to all religions, Chakravarty believes, but
man as yet has no language that can define it in all its manifestations. In support of his premise, Chakravarty
told of the many times he had experienced this immediacy of feeling in the course of his travel around the
earth: in a nunnery at Assisi in Italy, at the shrine of St. Theresa in Avila, Italy, in a monastery
in Japan, and in a Zen temple, among other places.

The Indian scholar points out that he is not a syncretist, believing it impossible to weld all the religions into
one.one. He does not believe that all religions are roughly wading to the same path, NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE but, rather, thinks
that there are some good religions and some bad ones. “Religions,” he said, “are channels from a source, not sources
themselves. The source is God. I myself am merely trying to obtain a little light from the great Beings who
have blessed us with their presence on earth.” In the course of a long and varied career, Chakravarty became the
personal friend of Mahatma Gandhi and the Indian poet, Rabindranath Tagore. He was also a close associate of Albert Schweitzer.
At present, he is Professor Emeritus of Comparative Oriental Religions and Literature at Boston University, and Visiting Professor in Religion
at Smith College, Northampton, Mass.

Faculty Releases Draft Original Spirit Retained

A revised Faculty constitution draft containing 22 major changes was released by the Faculty Constitution Committee Wednesday. According to Dr.
Alan B. Brinkley, chairman of the committee which proposed both drafts, the revisions have come as the result of meetings
held with several trustees in recent weeks, from criticisms of the first draft from other faculty members, and from new
thinking by the committee members. Constitution Committee Secretary Hansford M. Epes stated in a cover letter for the new draft,
“We feel that the revision is substantially in the spirit of the original; many changes were made in order more
clearly to communicate that spirit.”

Among the proposed changes are increased student representation on Faculty-student committees, some clarification of the provision protecting the confidential nature
of Faculty meetings, and removal of the tenure restriction on faculty voting. Other revisions include a clearer statement of procedures
for due process for students accused of violations of student conduct rules. Present jurisdiction over athletic scholarships is retained pending
the report of a trustee committee studying the problem. (See FACULTY, Page Six)

The report goes on to point out that campus organizations such as the YMCA and International Relations Club could take
more advantage of the presence of the foreign students on campus. Ward commented that several of the Richardson Scholars have
made individual contributions to campus life and referred especially to Jurgess Schlunk’s one-man play and Francis Gayter and Mike Gwilym’s
French literary program, entitled “The Love and Sadness of France.” “We simply want to see that if any campus organization
asks us to do something, we are willing, but they have not asked,” added Wotonet. “I think the Richardson Scheme
is a tremendous plan which some small liberal arts colleges can boast of. I think it's a tremendous pity more
advantage is not taken of the scheme.” Ward concluded.

D. G. MARTIN

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

Davidson President D. Grier Martin replied to the student-written “Brown Ground Report” Wednesday with general agreement “... that most of
what you have recommended is desirable” and with a proposal for “an open discussion” on the letter’s contents. The “Brown
Ground Report” was submitted to Martin March 17 as a formulation of student opinions on various subjects. Ed Dwelle, spokesman
for the 90 students signing the report, commented that “It is a very appreciative letter,” and summarized the letter as
saying “that you will be interested to know that we are interested to know that you are interested in the
college.”

“I am glad that President Martin saw fit to take the ‘Brown Ground Report’ seriously enough to reply to it,”
Dwelle continued. “At some colleges it would have been ignored.” Martin noted that the report represents “a good example of
long-range planning, and I have a feeling that the majority of the college faculty, administration, alumni, and friends would agree
with many of the things which you have proposed.” “I certainly can agree with the concern made under ‘administration’ that
Davidson must be steered into the future, and that we must not drift,” Martin went on to say. Martin noted
that the proposals would involve about four to five million dollars, in addition to a minimum of $20 million for
the coordinated girls’ college. Martin pointed to the changes in the past 10 years, and said he recognized “that students,
who are here for a relatively limited period, do feel that things move very slowly.”

Dwelle took the reply to the report as “an indication that things are improving too.” “I did not expect the
president to write back and say that everything would be changed a week after he wrote,” Dwelle continued, “and he
didn’t say that.” “I hope that the report will not merely be filed in the great round file and forgotten.
I shall look forward to having an Open End or some other open forum discussion with the president in the
future,” Dwelle said.

Faculty Schedules Open Discussion

Discussions on the Blue Sky Committee’s proposals of an Honors College and a Non-Western Program make up the agenda for
an open faculty meeting to be held on Monday. “The purpose of this open meeting is to discuss the proposals
and to begin consideration of obtaining funds to finance the programs in the future,” stated Dean of the Faculty Frontis
Johnston. “Action on these proposals is planned for the May faculty meeting.” The Honors College proposed by the Blue Sky
Committee is a program to allow a few select students to work independently while at Davidson. These students would be
under the supervision of certain faculty members who would be chosen on a rotating basis.

Funny Positions Seen By ‘Cop’ On Weekends

By ROBERT PYEATT
Assistant Managing Editor

“At these concert weekends you see some people in some positions you don’t normally see them in,” said E. N.
Linker. campus security officer. Linker was reminiscing on 27 years’ experience in controlling Davidson Gentlemen on major dance weekends. “We
have the same rules now as we always have had but they don’t mean what they used to. We didn’t
used to have parking on campus. Oh, we did, but we’d move ‘em on. Not this parking on campus and
around like we have now,” he commented. “Also, present students are drinking more than they used to.” Linker, known affectionately
as “Cop” Linker, has been a familiar figure to Davidsonians since 1939. The dedicated officer remarked, “On these concert weekends
we don’t go all out to see how many of these fellows get caught. We just try to maintain a
good average. I would rather let 10 guilty fellows get by with it than arrest one innocent man wrongly.”

Linker recounted an incident during Spring Frolics several years ago, when he was making his early morning rounds in a
pickup truck and drove onto the soccer field. “I drove down and turned, and nearly ran over a couple lying
on a blanket,” he said. “That was a harrowing experience. I looked around and saw several other couples on the
soccer field. I had that field cleared off in a hurry.” Linker feels tradition is suffering under the forces of
change and that students are changing. “Students talk about the manners and behavior of the older generation as something from
the past,” he said, and disregard them. Davidson students, however, still come from the same type of backgrounds as they
always have. “Morally, we are the same.”

27 FROLICS LATER

Linker Recalls Big Weekends

Frolics To Feature ‘Soccer Field Grubb’

A Union-sponsored “Grubb on the soccer field” is the newest addition to Spring Frolics plans for the weekend which will
be marked by a holiday from classes tomorrow. Kicking off the weekend will be The Association concert tonight at 8
p.m. in Love Auditorium. Afterwards, “The Pawnbroker,” starring Rod Steiger, will be shown at the Union at 11 p.m. On
Saturday, the Dave Brubeck Quartet will sound off in a concert at 8 p.m. Student identification cards must be shown
for admission. At the Union, a Sophisticated Travel will begin at 10 p.m. followed by a second showing of “The
Pawnbroker” at 11 p.m. At 1 a.m., folksinger Clyde Grubb will stage an impromptu concert. A 2 a.m. breakfast at
the Union will follow his concert on the soccer field.
