COOK COMES DOWN WITH GOODIES

Frosh Rebounding Holds Up Without Maloy

Swimmers Drop Two More, Face Appalachian Tuesday

After meeting a strong William and Mary team this afternoon, a determined but undermanned swimming team will meet Appalachian Tuesday
at 3 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Dropping their seventh meet of the year, the swimmers lost to Emory University Saturday
by a 60-44 score. Steve Barden and John Helm turned in fine performances, each collecting nine and three-fourths points. Barden
took a first in the 200-yard breaststroke and a second in the 200-yard individual medley. Helm earned his points by
winning the 100-yard freestyle and placing second in the 50-yard freestyle. Adding seven and three-quarters points to the Wildcat cause,
Bobby Vagt swam to two second-place finishes in the 500 and 200-yard freestyle events. All three boys picked up their
remaining points in relays. In diving competition, Bob Rhea, after missing his first dive completely, came back in the last
five to take second place and tally three points.

Davidson fell victim to a powerful Georgia Tech team Friday, by a 58-45 margin. Barden, Eddie Beach, Joe Friebele, and
Vagt were standouts for the Wildcats. Barden raced to first place in the 200-yard butterfly and the 200-yard breaststroke events
to collect 10 points. Beach took a first in the 200-yard individual medley and a second in the 200-yard breaststroke.
He gained additional points in relay events, totaling nine and three-quarters points. Friebele and Vagt each contributed five points by
winning the 200-yard and 500-yard freestyle events, respectively. Again Rhea chipped in three points with a second in the diving
division. Coach Tom Stevens said, “The boys are doing much better on their times, but we are hurting for numbers.
Having only seven boys for 12 events, we give our opponents a certain number of points before we start.” Stevens
continued, “I’m very pleased with Bob Rhea’s diving performance. He’s a senior who had never dived for us before this
year. His six points in the last two meets are the most a Davidson diver has scored in two consecutive
meets in the last two years.”

This year's freshman team is expected to strengthen the finmen next year. Ed Bartle, Mac Davis, Bill Johnson, Pat Mullen,
Doug Stott, and Jack Wellman have been good performers. Jim Hinshaw is looked to for aid in next year’s diving
competition.

2 Scholarships Left For Cagers

Only two basketball scholarships are available for next year's freshman team, Coach Lefty Driesell revealed this week. Currently, 13.8 scholarships
are allotted to basketball, according to Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director. One scholarship is now vacant due to Scott Sinnock’s
quitting the team. More scholarship funds, equivalent to eight-tenths of a scholarship, are being added to the basketball fund from
the Living Endowment. “Most major college teams have 20 scholarships,” Driesell said. “Lack of scholarships has been our problem as
long as I've been here. I think we ought to have at least 16.” The new scholarship is being added
this year because of a three-year program to increase athletic scholarships from the increase in the Living Endowment. All athletic
grants are controlled by the Faculty-Scholarship Committee. Football also benefits from the scholarship increase. There will be 47.7 football awards
available this year, up from last year's 45.4, according to Scott. “Athletic scholarship funds are a constant percentage of the
Living Endowment. They are being increased due to the increase in the endowment,” Scott said.

GRAB IT ‘N GROWL

WITHOUT MALOY

Kittens Bump Foes To Hold Clean Slate

By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Writer

Responding with great pride and determination to the loss of Mike Maloy, leading scorer and rebounder, the Davidson Wildkittens narrowly
averted defeat at Clemson and then crushed Duke Tuesday with a strong second-half burst to keep their winning streak intact.
Maloy suffered a broken left hand in an accident on the way to lunch last week and is out for
the rest of the season, but according to Coach Terry Holland, “Everyone has responded to the challenge, picking up the
slack on the boards and in scoring. They all have a lot of pride—they've been working harder to keep winning.”
Holland has inserted Randy Jones at the point, moved Fox Demoisey to wing, and sent Jerry Kroll underneath the boards.

In the 82-80 squeaker at the Tiger's den, Kroll poured 29 points through the nets and led all rebounders. “He's
playing the position he played in high school, and has demonstrated excellent moves to the basket,” Holland commented. Duke entered
the rematch in Charlotte determined to run with Davidson. Earlier in the season, at Durham, the Blue Imps had slowed
the pace only to lose 63-54. Their strategy worked initially, as they assumed a one-point lead at halftime. The Wildkittens’
blitz began from the opening tap of the second half. Within three and one-half minutes, with Doug Cook scoring nine
points and Kroll adding five, the ‘Kittens spurted to a 53-42 lead. A Duke time-out failed to halt their momentum,
as Davidson's siege guns buried the Imps beneath a barrage of points. After 13 minutes had elapsed, the Wildkittens had
outgunned Duke 40-16, and Cook had scorched the nets with 24 points. Cook finished with 34 points and 19 rebounds,
but his major contribution has been, according to Holland, to “step into the middle on defense and block shots and
get rebounds.” Jan Postma tallied 27 points against the Imps, displaying superbly accurate shooting, and Jones demonstrated “real poise against
the press,” Holland noted. After disposing of Furman last night, only The Citadel and N.C. State stand in the way
of Davidson’s first undefeated freshman basketball season.

As Freshmen Continue Own League

Freshmen will be ineligible for interfraternity competition in spring sports during this semester, IMAC president Jack Sherrill told THE DAVIDSONIAN
this week. “We're running things differently from last year,” Sherrill said. “Freshmen will continue to play in their hall leagues
through this semester. They will have their own trophy just like the fraternities.” Last year freshmen participated in their own
league until fraternity pledging, and then played for their respective houses for the rest of the school year.

Coaches Express Concern Over Present PE Program

(In this second of a three-part series on physical education at Davidson, the writer presents and examines the general opinions
of the group of men who know physical education at Davidson best, the coaching staff.)

By Tom Cook
Sports Editor

Though they are generally concerned with the welfare of their individual sports, most of the coaches who teach physical education
want to do a good job, better than the one they are doing now. Where there are student complaints, many
of the coaches sympathize with them and want to make the program more than the hour's exercise that it is
now. The general plan of the PE program is to introduce a freshman to four sports which he can use
in his later life. One might not classify wrestling in this category, but it is a sport in which the
conditioning is valuable, as are the running and new skills used in soccer. Often, introduction to these two sports is
the means by which students decide to pursue a sport further at the freshman intercollegiate level. Heath Whittle, assistant director
of PE, admitted, “The students...have a legitimate gripe about the program. I feel it can be improved over the present.”
He cited problems of overcrowding of certain periods, shying away from Saturday periods, and the problem of absentee coaches. “New
coaches are brought with the understanding that they will teach PE. But it is not their prime interest.” Whittle agreed
with others who favored hiring one or two men who would concentrate on PE and intramurals, thus releasing coaches from
many of their PE duties.

DeMoisey Pulls Off Hair-Raising Move

Of the general attitude of the coaches, one of the areas which drew criticism last week, Coach Dick Short noted,
“It's hard to go down and get involved when you are thinking about what you are getting paid for. Physical
education has definitely improved since I was in school. Under Coach (Joe) Hunt (former assistant cage coach), we had a
lot of fun until basketball started, then we hardly met. We didn’t get much done.”

Most of the coaches are concerned with the motivation of the program. Harry Fogleman declared, “The time students spend here
is worth something.”

Fogleman proposed that the graduation requirements in quality points and semester hours be increased by two each to 126 and
that PE adopt a grading system with each semester worth one-half semester hour. Along with this, Fogleman said he thought
the same cut system as the college uses, 25 per cent (or 11 PE cuts), should be adopted. Coach Tom
Stevens favored retention of the present cut system because “when you count up all the free cuts, you get about
as many as most classes.”

Fogleman's system would include offering certain classes at specific hours so that students could choose their activities. Tennis, golf, swimming,
and handball would be required. Stevens favored an improved swimming program with higher requirements. Fogleman favored a return to the
grading system while Stevens preferred the present pass-fail system.

All of the coaches are concerned with the attitudes of their students toward their activity. Coach Tom Couch stated, “I'd
like to sit down with the guys and talk to them about their sport and talk about the rules, fundamentals,
and skills involved.”

The department's opinion of the tests required for satisfactory completion of the course was varied. Dr. Tom Scott, director of
athletics and physical education, said, “There’s not a good reason to have the tests or even to have the book.
There is probably a better appreciation if they know the game, and the book has all the reference material.” Most
of the instructors in the department admitted that the main value of the tests lies in the necessity of knowing
something about the sport in order to pass the quarter. A problem was that the tests were taken very lightly
and different coaches professed different considerations of their value.

Fogleman turned to another aspect of the PE program when he stated, “Athletics has become such a vital part of
American life that each person ought to be trained in the working of the body and the administration of his
hometown athletes.” Brown, a physical education major like Fogleman, noted, “Here, there's no way for a person who wanted to
be a coach to get a certificate.” Seeing this problem as motivational, Brown expressed a desire to establish enough courses
for a prospective teacher to get his athletic certificate. Scott agreed that this expansion would be desirable but doubted that
there would be sufficient demand for such courses to support them presently.

All of the coaches were adamant in their desire to improve their own performances in PE. Couch remarked, “The program
as it is now fits the needs of the college. But I feel that, even if you have to have
more classes, you ought to have smaller classes.” Stevens concluded, “The boys’ attitude may be bad when they get here,
but we just need to do better teaching of skills. For what the program is designed for, to make the
guys come down here, it is accomplishing its purpose. I guess we just want a little better program.”

(Staff Photos By Weems)

POSTMA GLIDES BY BLUE IMP

Kittens Glide By Dookers, 87-73

Meditations by the MASKED MARVEL

With the Southern Conference Tournament only a few weeks away, Lefty’s Fabulous Five may be happy for once that this
conference’s representative at the NCAA competition must be the winner of the post-season playoffs. There has been an infamous conference
tradition that the winner of the tournament is never the team which finishes on top after the regular season play.
But the hapless quintet that always seemed to get the axe in the bowels of Charlotte Coliseum was the Wildcats.
And lurking in the wings were the cagers from West Virginia, who always seemed ready to swoop up the honors.
But this year the Morgantownies are top dogs, while the Dixie Darlings from Davidson have stumbled into the race for
the second slot. The rubes from West Virginia have dodged revenuers and poverty workers long enough to whip six conference
opponents while losing to only one—Davidson. If the traditional jinx holds true this year, the Mountaineers won't even leave the
Coliseum with their white lightning, much less the conference title.

But this season there is someone else ready to capitalize on a Mountaineer miscarriage. That team is William and Mary.
The Indians have been on the warpath ever since Davidson assistant coach Warren Mitchell cashed in his Cat claws for
a warbonnet and went to a new calling where the wampum was just a bit greener and the status a
bit higher. Mitchell has managed to fire up his team which, under the leadership of Ron Panneton, has knocked off
seven conference opponents and lost to only four. The Indians now stand second in the conference. Their recent scalping of
Davidson's quint showed the rest of the conference family that they are not afraid of the Coliseum, and that they
can hand any team, even hometown Davidson, a licking there on any given night.

Mitchell knows his opposition well. Mitchell and West Virginia are old foes. And of course, he has one advantage over
Davidson that no other coach has—he helped recruit and train nearly every man on the Wildcat roster. He knows their
strengths and weaknesses, and will, no doubt, use his knowledge well.

Since, no doubt, the platitude factory on the second floor of the gym will soon be mouthing this bit of
news from coast-to-coast, we will scoop the black-haired baron of ... and say it first—Rod Knowles seems to have found
his old touch and is looking like the player he really is. Marquette Coach Al McGuire called Knowles “the best
big man” he had seen all season after the 6-9 junior bagged 27 points against McGuire's team. Last week against
Richmond Knowles garnered seven points early in the first half before Driesell benched him with three fouls. In the second
half, Knowles bagged another 15 points before fouling out. The tri-captain center fouled out against William and Mary, but not
before adding 22 points to the Wildcat totals. More and more he has been looking like the Rod Knowles who
tore apart Rhode Island last year in the eastern regionals.

From rehearsal hall to perfection to performance.

2 DAYS ONLY! 4 SHOWS ONLY!

TECHNICOLOR®

WED. - THURS., FEB. 22-23

CAPRI THEATRE

Matinees 3:15 p.m. - Adm. $1.50

Evenings 8:15 p.m. - Adm. $2.00

Tickets On Sale At Box Office Or By Mail

Discounts Available To Crowds

3500 East Independence Blvd.

Charlotte, N.C.
