Reaction To War Sweeps Over Campuses Of Nation

By The Associated Collegiate Press

Few campuses in the nation have been able to shut themselves off from the dialogue over the war in Vietnam.
An issue of such immediacy has not hit the campus in years. And the campus is reacting with a fervor.
While the dissenters are still relatively few, they seem to have given a war-and-peace orientation to the entire campus.

The forms of dissent are as diverse as the campuses themselves: Near the University of North Carolina’s Chapel Hill campus,
students are exposed every Wednesday to a long line of silent protestors. Among them one day last month was an
84-year-old retired Episcopal priest, who had been part of the vigil nearly every week since January because, he told a
“Daily Tar Heel” reporter, “I want peace for my children.”

At the University of Minnesota, student war dissenters gained control of the Democratic-Farmer Labor Club in Minneapolis’ Sixth Ward by
being elected to the top three posts. The Ward includes the University’s West Bank campus. The new chairman, Vance Opperman,
a 24-year-old law student, announced plans to introduce a resolution at the club’s November meeting calling for an unconditional end
to the war.

At Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., members of the Students for a Democratic Society planned to spark the University’s Founder’s
Day ceremonies by picketing one of the men scheduled to receive an honorary degree—Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara.

At the University of Nebraska, the student senate’s Ad Hoc Committee on Vietnam announced plans for a series of seminars
on the war, followed by an all-campus referendum before Thanksgiving, according to the “Daily Nebraskan.”

The Stop the Draft Committee at the University of California at Berkeley planned a week-long demonstration to halt operations at
the Oakland Induction Center. About 116 demonstrators, including folk singer Joan Baez, were arrested on the first day of demonstrating.

Several students and one professor at Utah State University carried a peace torch from the campus in Logan to Salt
Lake City as part of a 3,000-mile marathon from San Francisco to Washington, D.C. Marathon originator Richard Elmore flew from
Japan to San Francisco with live coals from the Hiroshima Monument to light the torch, made partially of fragments from
U.S. bombs used in Vietnam, the “Student Life” said.

Much of the protest is an outgrowth of Vietnam Summer, a nation-wide program, according to the “Student Life,” to “organize
all opposition to the war in Vietnam into a constituency that can exert pressure to end the war.” It works
to “provide educational material on the war itself, to encourage inclusion of the subject in classroom studies, to provide information
on the draft and alternatives to the draft, and to conduct referenda in selected communities across the country.” Based on
the precedent of the Mississippi Freedom Summer of 1964, it “attracted over 26,000 volunteers and over $200,000 in contributions at
last count this past summer,” the newspaper reported. Many volunteers returned to their campuses to spark local anti-war action.

While the anti-war movement is becoming more organized to make the intensity and strength of anti-war sentiment known at the
national level, the real dilemma concerning the war remains a personal one—because for the young American male, attitudes on the
war must inevitably be translated into a decision on the draft—whether or not to accept a 2S deferment, whether to
go if called.

Oct. 16 brought the decisions of dozens of young men across the country into the open when they turned in
their draft cards and pledged “total non-cooperation with the Selective Service System.” Before that, at a Lutheran Labor Day Conference
on War and Peace, 28 young Lutherans, among them graduate students, signed a “We Won't Go” statement, the Valparaiso University
“Torch” reports. The statement declared that “under no circumstances” would they fight in Vietnam nor participate in the military “so
long as the present war continues.”

The 2S deferment, held by most college males, continues to be the target of campus liberals, who denounce the Selective
Service System for giving the college student precedence over the poor, the non-white, the ungifted for whom college is an
impossibility. Spearheading the attack is the National Student Association, which last summer pointed to the inequities of the system and
called for the establishment of a volunteer national army. NSA later called for reforms of the current system, including the
elimination of universities’ participation in the Selective Service process. The Congress declared 2S deferments “to be undemocratic and in effect,
biased towards higher socio-economic levels.”

While opposition to the draft seems to be on the increase, it’s still a fact that most students, even though
they’re not fond of the idea, would serve if called. The draft resisters hope to change all that. And even
though they may succeed in putting questions in many minds, there’ll always be a few who remain undaunted—like a Kansas
student who daily goes through the paces of a grueling physical fitness campaign. His reason: He wants to be prepared
if called to go to war.

By DON HOYT
Staff Writer

Replying to charges of a slanted “Why War?” program, B. A. Aiken, organizer of the program, admitted that it was
biased, but defended the bias. Aiken, president of the College Union and a conscientious objector, answered critics of the program,
who...

Use Of Flag And Bias Fans Flames Of Criticism Against War Series

By BOB REID
Managing Editor

Objections to the use of an American flag in a display case and the apparent bias in the program format
have aroused criticism of the “Why War?” series. Several people recoiled at what they considered an improper use of an
American flag, as it was draped in the corner of the Why War? display in the College Union. Still others
believed the program did not present both sides of the question, and that the planning committee which determined the format
was not representative of the cross-section of opinions on the subject.

“That committee couldn't have been more stacked,” said senior Joe Beard, “if it had been Jayne Mansfield and Marilyn Monroe.
Those ladies are dead now, and I believe the committee should follow suit.”

“The display puts the flag in such a light that it is degraded in my estimation,” said senior Ron Dougherty.
“I look upon the flag as an extension of the United States. The flag never loses its identity.” Beard agreed
that he thought the display was in poor taste, but added he thought senior B. A. Aiken, Union president and
chairman of the “Why War?” series, did not mean to degrade the flag. “I don't think B. A. ever thought
of degrading the flag and country,” Beard said, “but that’s the problem—he didn't think.”

One student muttered in disgust: “they ought to take the flag and lynch him (Aiken) with it.”

Aiken, who is also a conscientious objector, said the display was a work of art and not an attempt to
degrade the flag. But Beard disagreed: “It’s not a piece of art; it's a piece of propaganda.” Dougherty said he
told Ai...

WHILE SOME TALK, OTHERS...MARCH ROTC student soldiers march in review. ... flag display (L) is degrading.” Ken “in rather strong
language" that he would forcibly remove the flag unless the display were changed. But, Dougherty said, Aiken told him if
the flag were removed he would charge the remover with thievery and turn him over to the Honor Court. Dougherty
then gave up plans for any demonstration against the display or the program. Some faculty and students (Staff Photo by
Fonvielle) also felt the program format was not presented in the manner it had been advertised. They said they believed
the program would present both sides of the issue of war as an instrument of national policy. However, many felt
the planning committee had scheduled a program which presented only the case for pacifism. “It seems to me that although
Aiken has taken the initiative,” Dougherty said, “except for (Dr. Hans) Morgenthau, the week is going to be just an
extension of B. A.'s own personal views.”

Beard agreed with Dougherty’s opinion. “From what I can tell, Morgenthau (whose speech here Monday inaugurated the forum) was not
a part of the program. He was reasonable, rational, and objective. I feel the program as a whole is not.”
Beard said he knew of no plans to sponsor a counter program. The Conservative Club is sponsoring an address later
this year by Father Joseph Duc Minh, a Vietnamese expatriate and anti-Communist. But, Beard said, Father Minh was scheduled last
August, well before plans for “Why War?” were announced.

The Davidsonian
November 17, 1967
Page Three

PLANNERS MAP STRATEGY
Program organizer B. A. Aiken (R) confers with co-worker Tate Sterrett.

Aiken Defends Charges Of Bias In ‘Why War?’
Aiken maintains that the series is biased by pointing out that an effort was made to secure pro-war speakers for
the program. It was their inability to participate in the program, rather than prejudice on the part of the planning
committee, that determined the present program, he said. When asked if he didn't feel that the Union was above bias
he answered, “It’s not and neither is anybody else.” He pointed out that military recruiters are brought to Davidson under
the sponsorship of the Union, and that any group wishing to organize a pro-war program was free to do so.

Aiken said that the war in Vietnam had not been planned as the specific topic, but he realized that the
subject of America’s present involvement in Southeast Asia would inevitably arise. The program was organized, rather, to treat the problems
of war in general. For instance, “The Magician” treats war allegorically, “The War Game” deals with thermonuclear warfare, and economics
Professor Ernest Patterson will speak on the economics of war. The “Why War” series is being jointly sponsored by (Staff
Photo by Fonvielle) the YMCA and the student government. The theme of the program was chosen because of a fortunate
occurrence, Aiken said. The presentation of Dr. Hans Morgenthau's Reynolds Lecture and the showing by the YMCA of “The War
Game” within a few days of each other, plus an expressed interest on the part of the Union and the
student government to sponsor a program dealing with war and peace, led to the planning of the two-week series.

Aiken said that his greatest fear was not from hawks or doves, but rather from the closed-minded. When pressed as
to whether he would prefer a closed-minded pacifist to a closed-minded militarist, he replied that he doubted there were very
many closed-minded pacifists: “When you entertain minority ideas you pretty well have to be open-minded.”

The “Why War?” program also includes a speech on chemical warfare by Davidson Political Science Professor John Fuller, an address
by Dean Philip Secor of Muhlenburg College on political implications of war, and a talk by Dr. Ernest Patterson on
the economic implications of war.

ROTC Department Refuses Participation In War Week
Members of the Davidson College Reserve Officers Training Corps cadre were invited to participate in the “Why War?” programs, but,
according to an officer in the department, they “officially declined the invitation.” The member of the department said Army officers
at Davidson have “generally not participated in any such programs because of the compromising position into which one may be
forced as a member of the United States Armed Forces.” He called the Army “an executor of national policy and
not a debating society.”

CO Spouts Pacifist
By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

The essence of pacifism is “an objection to warfare and violence of all kinds,” according to conscientious objector David Maynard.
In a speech here Tuesday, Maynard, a former Harvard student who has been a CO since he was 14 years
old, said the pacifist believes war “breeds more antagonism and hatred than it eliminates.” Maynard, whose appearance was sponsored by
the “Why War?” committee, said pacifists base their beliefs on religious commitments and a respect for human life. “No one
has the right to take a life,” he said.

After showing a film on the alternatives to military service, Maynard led a discussion on the draft status of conscientious
objectors and the philosophy of pacifism. He explained there are two classifications of conscientious objectors. In the first classification, 1-A-O,
a man could qualify for non-combatant service in the armed forces. Under the 1-O classification, a conscientious objector would be
allowed to substitute two years of civilian service in branches such as the Peace Corps for service in the military.

In discussing the philosophy of pacifism, Maynard said pacifists are “against participation in wars of any form. The CO is
not trying to avoid any duties to the country, but he feels participation in killing is not a true service
to your country.” “There is a difference,” he added, “between being non-violent and doing nothing and non-violent and actively resisting.”
Maynard said he was pleased to see the growth of conscientious objection on campuses around the country. “I am heartened
to see the increasing number of young men who are considering the moral implications of the war,” Maynard said.

He said he was not opposed to the idea of Davidson conducting such a forum, but that “it would simply
be awkward for us to participate in it.” All of the officers in the Davidson cadre are middle-rank (captain and
above) and several of them have served in combat. Maynard said he left Harvard three and one-half years ago because
of what he termed “dissatisfaction.” He later joined the American Friends Service Committee, an organization founded in World War I
to help assuage the evils of war and promote peace.” The Committee, with offices throughout North Carolina and the South,
sponsors counselors who confer with young men on draft laws and alternatives to combat status. “Army, Navy, Air Force and
National Guard recruiters are the only counselors most people see,” Maynard said.
