A NEW FUTURE OUT OF THE BLUE SKY

Edited Text Of Report Submitted By The Committee To The Faculty:

The origins of the Blue Sky Committee are well known to most members of the Faculty. Triggered by the recent
Self Study, the assignment of a thorough restudy of our academic program reflects the long-standing conviction of many of us
that it is time for a change. The suggestion of this restudy was received by the Faculty with enthusiasm. Enthusiasm
has also characterized the work of the Committee. It has worked steadily and faithfully throughout the year. Many different suggestions
and a great variety of proposals have been officially and unofficially before it. But many months of discussions and arguments
have ended in a remarkable degree of agreement on both aims and means. Most of the recommendations have been adopted
with unanimity: there are no minority reports.

We have been accused of unnecessary secrecy and our silence has been interpreted as a deliberate attempt to create a
conspiratorial psychology. We have had better reasons than these for not saying much until now. From the beginning, the Committee
agreed that no pronouncements would be made until we had a relatively cohesive whole to propose. We further agreed that
announcements, when they were ready, would be made first to the entire Faculty and not piecemeal to individuals. Perhaps the
principal reason for our silence has been the fact that, until now, we have had nothing to say. Perhaps an
old adage will apply: "It is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to speak and remove
all doubt."

This is a progress report. The Committee realizes that more work remains and that more decisions will be required. There
are a number of subcommittee reports which will require attention in the immediate future. But we believe that the recommendations
contained in this report are sufficient in scope to expose to the Faculty the main structural features of the new
curriculum. The Committee realizes full well that the quality and content of what goes into the structure will be the
crucial determinant of any excellence it may produce. This will be a matter for the entire Faculty rather than for
the Committee. A more complete report, with more elaborate background explanations, is planned for early fall.

Someone has reminded us that a text without its context is a pretext. With this warning in mind, we have
tried to ground our proposals firmly in educational realities as they exist both in higher education in general and at
Davidson in particular. As for higher education, we recognize that many thoughtful critics now seriously raise the question as to
whether or not the liberal arts college can survive, much less prosper, in the generation or so immediately before us.
The tremendous quantitative increase in public education presents additional challenges. The "explosion of knowledge" has certainly complicated the former simplicities
of liberal learning and has suggested that the traditional liberal arts may be obsolete because such an education may now
be irrelevant. In addition, we recognize that this church college now exists in a world of unusually rapid social change
and in the midst of an increasingly secularized society. Finally, we are conscious, at least in part, of the technological
advances which are beginning to change the face of education.

As for Davidson in particular, we have been most conscious of one glittering fact which we feel is of the
greatest importance in planning the future. This fact, crucial to our recommendations, is the high quality of intellectual ability among
the students. The raw material for an exciting educational experience is here. This conclusion can be proved from data publicly
available. Our conclusion is that, by the standards of the very best liberal arts colleges who already have them, we
can launch flexible programs of intellectual challenge based on individual initiative without fear that we shall demand too much of
our average student.

Another aspect of reality at Davidson involves the nature and needs of the Faculty. It will not be enough for
Davidson to continue its compensation program into the immediate future. This surely needs to be done, but the College must
also recognize and plan for the professional needs of its Faculty if the talents and promise of the students are
to be matched by the Faculty. A challenging new curriculum will hold many and attract others, but only if teaching
loads can be reduced, research opportunities increased, and exciting chances for perpetual self-renewal provided.

These are some of the challenging realities that make up the context in which the Committee has worked and planned.
The recommendations we propose constitute our recognition of these realities and of the challenges inherent in them. But educational commitment,
if it is authentic, will be not only to the realities but to the possibilities of our age. One thoughtful
educator has reminded us that the principal task of our colleges is to educate man to see reality as the
God of Genesis saw the chaos: as clay to be worked; and above all to recognize that the working of
the clay is a part of the reality. Your Committee would like to have us dwell more on the clay
than on the chaos and proceed to mold what is at hand.

A curriculum is a combination of information, techniques, and attitudes whose proportions must constantly change. But it is more than
that — it is an act of faith. It is an expression of a conviction that the tone, style, and
skills connected with liberal learning can make one more sensible and more responsive as well as more knowledgeable. It insists
that a truly liberal human being can be produced by the yen for excellence. In such a context, and with
such a hope, your Committee is proposing a new curriculum, acknowledging that it is always a means to an end
and that it should never become an idol but remain a tool.

Calendar, Teaching Loads

The question becomes what will we need to hold our own in quality and still reduce faculty loads to approximately
9 hours? The Committee proposes that we abandon our requirements of semester hours and set the graduation requirement at 32
courses. We propose, further, that we adopt a new calendar of 3 terms, to be arranged within the traditional academic
year of September to June. Details of such a calendar remain to be worked out, but the Committee proposes a
3-3-2 plan. Ordinarily each student would take 3 courses in each of the first two terms, and 2 courses in
the third term. Thus he would take 8 courses a year.

We will be able to change the teaching load of the faculty so that about 22 faculty members can teach
3 courses for 2 terms and have 1 term off during the academic year; the other 67 faculty members will
teach 2 courses in each of 3 terms. This is not more than a 9-hour load per academic year for
anyone.

Area Examinations

The Committee recommends that area examinations be required of all students except those in the Honors College. These examinations must
be successfully completed before a student may enter the junior class. Students may take area examinations at any time they
may be scheduled. If a student should complete all area examinations by, say, the end of his freshman year, he
must continue the core and distribution requirements unless he is admitted to the Honors College. It is not anticipated that
any student will be totally prepared for these examinations by taking the specified number of courses in each area. The
object is to make him go beyond the course requirements and obtain a portion of his learning from his own
study of suggested materials. By means of this requirement, the Committee intends to demand a breadth of liberal learning which
will exceed in scope the sum of all the regular courses he may have taken.

Core Requirements

The Committee recommends as follows: That academic departments at Davidson College be separated, for purposes of delineating distribution and core
requirements, into four areas, as follows:

AREA 1: LANGUAGE, LITERATURE AND THE ARTS
a. Language and Literature
b. Fine Arts, Speech, Drama

Requirements: 3 courses in 2 departments, at least 1 course in group a. and 1 course in group b.b. For
credit in I a., courses numbered 11, 12, 13 (according to the present curriculum) will not count.

AREA II RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
Requirements: 3 courses, at least 2 in Religion.

AREA III NATURAL SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS
Requirement: 3 courses chosen from at least 2 departments.

AREA IV SOCIAL SCIENCE
a. Anthropology, Economics, Education, Psychology, Sociology.
b. Geography, History, Political Science.
Requirement: 3 courses, including at least 1 course in group a. and 1 course in group b.

Chorus Try-Outs Next Sept. 13, 14
Fall try-outs for upperclassmen interested in Chorus will be held Sept. 13 and 14, the first two days of classes,
according to Director Donald Plott. Plott also said that try-outs for the freshmen will be conducted Sept. 11 and 12
and asked that all interested persons contact him. Highlight of the Male Chorus’ activities next year will be a spring
tour of Florida. The president is Chip Vogan.

International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
Open til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub
NO SUMMER STORAGE!
BECAUSE WE ARE MOVING TO A NEW LOCATION, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO STORE WINTER CLOTHES THIS SUMMER
Jackson Cleaners - Main Street

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: 12 courses as specified above, of which at least 2 courses in each of the 4 areas must
be taken by the end of the second year. An area examination in each of the 4 areas must be
taken before the student may enter the junior class. A student may elect to take area examinations at any time
they are scheduled between his entrance into college and the end of this second year. Grades on area examinations shall
be honors, pass, or fail.

GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS: Thus, requirements for graduation for all students except those in the Honors College will be: successful completion of
32 courses which meet the major, the area, and the distribution requirements. Foreign Language proficiency. Successful completion of 4 area
examinations. A student may elect to fulfill these requirements by choosing one of three tracks, including or by a combination
of them. He may be admitted to the Honors College, where particular requirements for him will be specified by the
Faculty of that college. He may choose to follow a course of independent study in whole or in part, electing
those courses in some areas, or in all areas, that are designed for the independent study track. Or, he may
choose to take all of his core requirements through regular courses. All students except those in the Honors College will
be required to take area examinations.

Career Service Program
That Davidson College establish a non-credit Career Service program, on a voluntary basis, for one term of junior year. This
program is to be directed by qualified administrative personnel who shall report to the Dean of the Faculty.

Foreign Study Program
That the full year foreign study program be continued essentially as presently established, and that a student be permitted the
alternate choice of one term in foreign study during his junior year, with a maximum credit of one foreign language
course.

Freshman English
On arriving at the College all freshmen would take an examination in written English. A committee would then determine those
who pass and those who fail. Those students who passed would then become the responsibility of every professor in the
College; if at any time a student’s writing was deemed unsatisfactory he would be remanded to the remedial program. Those
freshmen who failed the examination would be required to meet with members of the staff, to submit written work as
often as required, and to do whatever outside reading and exercises as were assigned. The student would be released from
the program whenever the instructor became satisfied that a minimum level of proficiency had been attained. The students would receive
no credit for their work in the remedial program.

That the interdisciplinary course in the Humanities be continued in the new curriculum under the following conditions:
That the Humanities Course be a two-year program, taken as one course each term for three terms in each of
the first two years of college.
That the classes meet no more than five times per week.
That enrollment be limited, as it presently is, to a maximum of 100 students in each year, and that the
present ratio of 6 faculty to 100 students be maintained.
That the two-year work in the Humanities be accepted as satisfying two of the three courses required in each of
the following three parts of the proposed curriculum: 1. Language and Literature, 2. Religion and Philosophy, and 3. Geography, History,
and Political Science.
That opportunities for the choice of the third course required in each area be specified by the College.

ROTC
That Davidson College discontinue giving academic credit for ROTC.
That any ROTC program at Davidson College be on a voluntary basis.
That the College take the initiative in attempting to secure the cooperation of the Department of Defense in the development
of a new and imaginative experimental program of officer training.

The Committee discussed this question at great length in several different committee sessions, and sub-committees had also wrestled with the
issue on several occasions. It was the conclusion of the Committee that Military Science and Tactics, as a subject matter
in a curriculum, is not compatible with the liberal arts and ought not to be a part of its program
of academic credit. While some members of the Committee also feel that Military Science and Tactics is not desirable with
credit or without it, in a church-related college, the Committee has taken the position that we would like for Davidson
College to take the lead in exploring the possibilities of establishing a more efficient method of training officer potential outside
the curriculum than we now have in the ROTC program.

That a proficiency examination in one foreign language be required for graduation—the minimum proficiency to be set at the level
of achievement necessary for the completion of a three-term college course (what is presently second-year level).

Learning Center
The Committee recommends the establishment of a Learning Center directed toward independent study and programmed learning. The basic purposes of
the Center would be to provide expanded opportunities whereby the student could educate himself to a greater degree than is
possible at the present time. The materials in the Learning Center would provide supplementary work in areas or on concepts
not covered in normal classes; furnish materials for remedial work by which students could make up individual deficiencies; provide opportunities
for independent study in subjects or in courses not offered in the regular curriculum; and help students prepare themselves for
area examinations.

Non-Western Program
The choice of the area of non-Western studies to be offered at Davidson is made on practical rather than theoretical
grounds. It is not a judgment on the quality or significance of other cultures, but a conviction that the use
of the English language in higher education in India and Pakistan, the presence of the program in Comparative Studies on
Southern Asia at Duke, and the training, research, and experience of some Davidson faculty members make the choice of South
Asia a natural one for us.

Honors College
The Committee recommends the establishment of an Honors College for a limited group of students who show exceptional intellectual ability
and maturity. More detailed descriptions of this proposal have already been circulated to the Faculty, and only a summary will
be included here. Students admitted to the College would be relieved of all regular requirements and their individual academic programs
would be specified by decisions of the entire faculty of the Honors College. The program of a student in the
College would formally consist of both independent study in depth and broad distributional requirements, perhaps through the medium of regular
courses. Admission to the College, which will be determined by the Faculty of the College, could come at any term
during a student's career, and any student would be permitted to leave the Honors College, without dishonor or penalty, whenever
he desired.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Good Luck, Davidsonians!
On your exams, your summer plans, your trip abroad, and when you return come back to see us for your
clothing for the pace-setting traditionalist
Jen Heck & Co.
Mooresville, N. C.
