Page Six March 10, 1986 The Davidsonian

BETTER THAN BROTHERHOOD
Social Affiliates Find Their Position Ideal

Ten students already live in the fraternity system on the same basis that will be offered by the secondary part of a “Type A Bid” if the Fraternity Affiliation Committee's proposals for 100 per cent affiliation are accepted by the faculty for next year. Eight fraternities have at least one social affiliate at the house with one having three. Social affiliates pay regular dues and board if they eat regularly at the fraternity house. They participate in most of the fraternity activities and can sit in on informal meetings and voice their opinions about fraternity policy. Formal meetings, such as initiation, are barred to them.

Among those interviewed there was a resounding hurrah for the ‘good deal’ of being a social affiliate. Sam Boyte said, “I’m very pleased: it’s better than being a brother.” Bill Andrews said he is “perfectly happy,” and Bill Bradley thinks, “it’s just great.” All of them were Independents at one time and know what an Independent's life is like. Andrews said that the attitude of fraternity men toward the independents has improved since he has been at Davidson. He feels that many of the fraternity men rationalize this discrimination away by thinking that the Independents have what they want and the fraternity men have what they want, and that’s the way it should be. Andrews sees something inherently wrong in the fraternity system as it is now operated. Andrews and Bradley have at one time been pledges of a fraternity. Boyte received a bid his freshman year but turned it down.

B. A. Aiken stated that he “could never be a brother.” “As a whole,” he said, “fraternities are a very bad institution; they need a radical reformation and this is evolving slowly.” However, Aiken is afraid that the fraternities are “not moving fast enough for their own good.” Leslie Brown found himself sometimes “laughing at the whole system. It all seems rather ridiculous,” he said. Freshman Allen Pusey found that he went through rush and saw a lot of his friends being hurt. He continued, “It made me stop and think and I wondered what people were going after.” Senior Bill Jones said that it’s “practically ideal for me, with no desire to be a pledge or to be initiated.”

Although they object to the system, they all feel that there is something to be gained and something that they need that the life of an Independent cannot supply. Aiken feels that the social life can exist apart from fraternities, but at Davidson it cannot at the moment. Bradley emphasized the social advantages, and that the fraternities encourage extra-curricular activities. Brown and Boyte do not eat at the house regularly, and pay only when they eat at the Pika house. Pusey decided to try the system “to see if the social life is that much better.” Andrews said he found that “a number of people at the Pika house would be stimulating, a part of my education, and a helpful part. I also wanted some social advantages that Independents don't enjoy, where I could live humanely, take a date, go to a party.” Brown felt that he wanted, other than just an advantage in social life, “to know what they are like” and to get to know both sides of the system.

Andrews felt that brotherhood is an over-worked phrase. “I don't exactly know what it means,” he said, but added that he believed it must be real to some people. Boyte feels that brotherhood is “nothing more than guys who like being around each other and like to work together and help each other out, but it’s not more than being a good friend anywhere else.” Aiken feels that brotherhood is “a feeling you have; I feel as much a brotherly connection with these boys. Being initiated wouldn't mean any difference.” Yet he feels that brotherhood “exists on a campus this small, even if you don’t have fraternities. It's a shame to limit this relationship to a group of people who have gone through the same ceremony.”

There are some “distinct advantages,” as Pusey said, to being just a social affiliate. The most common advantage cited was that no initiation fees have to be paid, and to one who might be in financial difficulty, affiliation with a fraternity can become a reality. Attendance at meetings is not required and to a few the atmosphere is freer than if one were a brother.

Programs At Wake Forest Use Coordinated Speakers

ED. NOTE: The present furor over chapel speakers and the Reynolds lecture series prompted THE DAVIDSONIAN to send staff writer Chuck Green to the Challenge ’67 symposium at Wake Forest College in Winston-Salem March 3-4.

By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

Challenge ‘67 as it was presented at Wake Forest last weekend examined “The Implications of Prosperity” more comprehensively than Davidson students have studied any topic utilizing the potential of outside speakers. The Challenge series is a bi-annual symposium of a three-day series of lectures, seminars, and entertainment on a selected topic. George Lincoln Rockwell, Norman Thomas, Dick Gregory, Sen. William Proxmire, Frank S. Meyer, Dr. Edward K. Buchanan, Herb Kaplow, Craig J. Spence, the Serendipity Singers, were among this year’s speakers. The series is completely controlled by a committee of students appointed by the student government. Direct contributions from the students and in-

Sunday Night Open House

The homes of the following professors will be open to students Sunday night at 8:30. The names of professors holding open house for students on Sunday nights will be published each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Fredericksen
Patterson, W.B.
McGeachy
White, L.
Johnson
Wolf

Council (Continued from page one)

without subsidization the college would not be able to continue to obtain such top competition.

Further discussion followed Matthew's proposal for an expanded physical education program. He suggested that new

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JOHN BAILEY
EDWARD DWELLE

Managing Editors:
SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managing Editors:
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER

Sports Editor:
TOM COOK

Assistant Sports Editors:
YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor:
ROBBIE HOOKER

Copy Editor:
BILL SEIGLER

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
DON CARROLL
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
GUNNAR MAGNUS
NAT HEYWARD

Assistant Business Manager:
BILL WATSON

Advertising Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
John Mack, Cliff Duke, George Robinson, Charles Elliott, Danny White, Don Sewell, George Cretekos, Lewis Lavine, Dick Spencer, Robert Pyeatt, Gary Sigmon, John Williams, Ken Cool, Chuck Green, Bob Dunham, Kenneth Hamilton, Bill Cockrill, Danny Coltrane, Allen Lewis, Marvin Ellison, John Barber, Franklin Anderson, Mike Bates, JohnRowe and Brodie Brown. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C., 28036. Interested citizens and student projects provided $9,000 for the program. Many of the speakers were acquired through agencies; others were contacted personally. Contacts were made last November; however, the program was not complete until one week before it was scheduled. “How far ahead arrangements are made depends on the speaker's appeal," said a student spokesman. Kaplow and Gregory came for $1200 apiece, an amount reserved at Davidson only for the Reynolds lecturers. The Challenge lectures were also broadcast over the college radio station. Others in previous years have been Robert Kennedy, Vance Packard, Barry Goldwater, Thomas Dodd, William Buckley, and James Farmer. The Lecture Committee of the College Union is composed of eight members from all classes and runs on a budget of $8,000 a year. Seven speakers of various interests are usually scheduled. A representative of the committee said that the line-up for next year had already been completed. One member said that “Faculty help is indirect in all of this, but there is no committee as such that oversees and approves our selections other than the Dean of Men himself.” Publicity consists of placards over the campus and Winston-Salem and advertisements in the city and campus papers. A news conference for the speaker is also held. Special dinners are frequently arranged. Agencies are principally used: package deals are used to save money, and the speakers are usually traveling a circuit of Carolina and Duke to cut costs and increase coordination among these three. The Institute of Literature is composed of the English, Romance, German, and Classical language departments with a budget of $4,000. Each department acts independently in getting speakers, but there is a committee to coordinate the series. There is a speaker every two weeks who gives two lectures: one is general and of interest to all, while the other is more specialized. Recently they had Robert Penn Warren. Each department of study has a budget for their own speakers with the department chairman running the program. There is a Political Science Colloquium every two months. Many of these speakers are from neighboring colleges and receive only expenses. A student characterized the faculty interest by saying, “They’re pretty up on it.” Student apathy is not great; in fact, there was a complaint that there were almost too many lectures. One student said that there must be a “lecture a night.” At the lectures by Rockwell and Thomas, 2500-seat Wait Chapel was almost filled. Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S STEAK CHARCOAL HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414 Boyte stated that he “liked being an Independent for I was able to do what I liked” and that social affiliation “keeps me in a role I like better.” Boyte said, “I think I made a wise decision ... I don't see any hindrances.” Andrews echoed that statement by saying that “I like to think I can retain my independence.” And Aiken said that there are “no hindrances—if I did feel that, I wouldn't stay.” Brown feels the same and added that none of the affiliates feel that there is any compulsion to conform to any fraternity “standards.” Bradley emphasized this in his remarks. Boyte said that “I can voice any sentiment even if I do get some kidding from Independents about being pseudo-independent, pseudo-fraternity.” Andrews said that “I express myself as a social affiliate, and people know what I think about the fraternity system. I can say what I think.” Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday The Hub Gurley’s ESSO Main and South Streets Phone 892-9304 GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND AND PLAY TIGERINO FOR CASH! Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd. Social acceptance is felt by all the affiliated. All are satisfied with their position, and none feel any inferior position within the fraternity. Andrews said that “I'm accepted in the position I am. I’m accepted nominally by some, but there is no animosity however, as it is in every house—it’s just natural... I'm not at all shut out... There is some criticism, but some of it is justified.” He feels that his relationship is “different,” but that does not seem to matter to the brothers. Brown emphasized “I can fit into the system more readily. It’s ideal for me, and I'll recommend it to others.” Rush Wilson, Ltd. Cordovan Imperial Classics Fashioned by Bates skilled New England craftsmen, feature fine Imperial Classics genuine Horween Shell Cordovan Leather, soft glove leather lining, storm welted double leather soles and leather heels, plus the exclusive Bates-Flex construction designed for flexibility and comfort. Rush Wilson, Ltd. Davidson, N. C. If Mexico and Bermuda send you, we'll send you posters of Mexico and Bermuda. 3 for $1.50. The diver of Acapulco. The torero of Mexico. The sleek racing craft of Bermuda. All three 30” x 40” posters are beautifully reproduced in color. And they're all yours for only $1.50. We think you'll like them so much, you'll want to go to Mexico and Bermuda some day. And when you do, we hope you'll go on Eastern. So don’t just sit there staring at four blank walls. Fill in the coupon below and send for your colorful posters now. EASTERN We want everyone to fly. To: Eastern Airlines, Inc., Poster Offer, Box 4211, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10017 Please send me the Bermuda, Acapulco, and Mexico posters, for which I enclose a $1.50 money order or check (payable to Eastern Air Lines, Inc. Poster Offer). Name Address City State Zip Code I would also be interested in receiving a Youth Fare Application. Greenville, S. C.