By BOB STUBBS Sports Writer

Davidson, with a strong showing in the field events, chalked up 43 points to finish a surprising second in the
Davidson Relays here Saturday. Cumberland College took first place with 59 points. Pembroke was third with 31 points, Catawba fourth
with 28, and Wofford fifth with 27. Cumberland had only one first place, in the triple jump, but had five
seconds and two thirds. Many of these came in the relays, where points are more liberally distributed. Davidson had five
firsts, all but one in the field events. Tony Orsbon broke the school record in the high jump with a
leap of 6'4". Greg Cox won the broad jump with a 22'7½" performance. Wayne Huckel threw the javelin 191'7¾", and
Dave Fagg hurled the discus 142'. Both placed first. The Davidson sprint medley relay team also won with a time
of 3:36.8 minutes.

WHITTLE PLEASED

Head Coach Heath Whittle was pleased with the results. "I was surprised at our finishing second. I had thought we
would be down around fourth or fifth,” he said. “The field men really came through, especially Orsbon, who had never
high jumped before this year. We might have given money if we had had more men. We only entered two
relays which virtually eliminated us from the championship. Next year with more depth we should do a lot better.”

RELAYS AT NIGHT

“Next year we are going to hold the relays at night," he added. "We are going to add a new
event—the shuttle hurdle relay. All 16 teams that participated this year have indicated that they will return. In order to
keep competition close, we intend to limit the field to schools that do not have subsidized track teams."

Only one meet record was set: Phil Griffin of Catawba put the shot 49'½" to eclipse by 12½" the old
record set by Bill Wade of Frederick. Other winners were Malzoni (Cumberland), triple jump, 44'½"; Tally (Wofford), pole vault, 13'4";
Pembroke College, distance medley relay, 10:15; Catawba, 440 relay, 42.5; Pembroke, two-mile relay, 8:15.9; High Point, mile relay, 3:25.8; and
Catawba, 880 relay, 1:29.1.

FACE THE CITADEL

Davidson will journey to Charleston Saturday to face The Citadel in the last dual meet of the year for the
‘Cats. “They are a little stronger than we are,” said Whittle, “but we will double up a lot and should
make the meet close.” On May 5-6 the cindermen will be in Durham for the State meet and the next
week will go to Fort Eustis, Va., for the Southern Conference meet.

BOB McKELLAR PACES RELAY HEAT

‘Cats Race To Surprising Second Place

Tennis Team Adds 4 Victories To Place Season Wins At 14

By DON SEWELL Assistant Sports Editor

Davidson's strong tennis team added three more wins to their record by downing VMI, Richmond, and Appalachian last week. The
victories stretched the Wildcat mark to 14-4 for the season and increased the possibility of another 20-victory season.

The frosh linksmen closed out their season Monday at Cedarwood Golf Club in Charlotte, falling to South Mecklenburg High School,
9½-5½, and tying Gastonia Ashley, 7½-7½. The three-way match left the "Kitten clubmen with a 1-4-1 record for the season.
Bill Trumball of South Mecklenburg and Steve Gillen of Ashley were co-medalists for the match with scores of 73. Danny
White was low for the Davidson linksters with a 74. Number two man for the 'Kittens, White, featured an eagle
in his round. White won 3½ points while losing 2½. Number three man Steve Klein had a 77 to take
3½ points out of a possible six. Number five man Ed Terry fired an 80 to split with both his
opponents, taking three points and losing three. Number one man Tom Hart slumped to an 82 but managed to pick
up two points. Number four man Bob Wrenn fired an 85 and managed to pick up one point. The match
ends the season for the ‘Kitten linksters. “The boys did not win but one match but I feel we had
a very successful season,” said Coach Tom Scott. “There are several boys on the team who will help the varsity
a great deal next year.”

Basemen Dump Kings

The frosh baseballers whipped Kings College, 5-1, Friday at Highland Park in Charlotte behind the pitching of Johnny Riggs for
their third straight victory. Powerful hitting was the key to the victory as the ‘Kittens amassed 12 hits in the
game, including three by Riggs. Mike Kelly, Cliff Patterson, Lynn Himes, and Gordon Slade all knocked in runs. The team
committed only one error in playing its finest defensive game of the year. The day before the batmen played host
to Carolina Military Academy. The ‘Kittens collected only four hits to seven for CMA, but they managed to eke out
a 3-2 victory. Clark Nickerson effectively spread out the Cadet hits to gain his second victory of the season. The
outfield made several key defensive plays to make the win possible. The baseballers started their present string of victories April
14 by downing Kings College, 2-0, behind Riggs’ five-hit shutout. Gordon Slade knocked in the only runs of the game.
The strong pitching of Riggs (2-1) and Nickerson (2-0) was credited for the current upsurge of baseball success by Coach
Sergeant Paul Poteat. The team currently is sporting a 4-2-1 record with one game left on the schedule.

The third of the fuzzballers’ wins came over Appalachian in a match in Boone, N.C. Tuesday. This time the ‘Cats
won by a 5-3 margin. But in this match only four of the first six members of Davidson’s squad were
able to play. The three easy matches came as a welcome respite for the Wildcats who are playing their toughest
overall schedule in years. According to Fogleman, this year's slate, including such powers as Northwestern, South Carolina and others, has
been a very demanding one of his squad. “We have been able to do really well. This has been by
far our toughest schedule. We can win the rest of our matches this season,” added Fogleman. Singled out for praise
in the team's powerful showing were Pinky Hatcher and Peter Parrot. Both players experienced slumps in their singles play, but
have come back strong to help the team to the last several victories. Parrot, along with Geordie Mueller and Dave
Jennings, is undefeated in singles competition in Southern Conference matches this year. Two doubles teams are also undefeated in conference
play. The duos of Mueller-Jennings and Esmond Phelps-Dan Hearon have yet to lose in the conference. Fogleman attributed the success
in doubles to a more aggressive style of play. “I am satisfied with the team’s play and we hope to
retain the conference championship we won last year,” he concluded.

SWAMP THREE FOES

Sailors Sweep Regatta Field

The Davidson sailing team and went away victorious. The yachtsmen saw high winds and close competition all day. Although The
Citadel led the scoring for most of the regatta, an afternoon disqualification gave Davidson the victory by a slim three-point
spread. The final scores were Davidson 33, The Citadel 30, College of Charleston 23, and Old Dominion 20.

HEAVY SAILING

Heavy air sailing was the order of the day, putting the coastal schools to a distinct advantage because of their
familiarity with the brisk winds along the Atlantic coast. The morning races soon indicated that the outcome of the regatta
would depend upon the performances of Davidson and The Citadel. This became more evident in the afternoon races as Davidson
and The Citadel continued to outdistance the other competitors. The Davidson skippers in the tough competition included Tom Kirtley and
Chip Robertson in A Division, Jim Lee and Tad Lowdermilk in B Division.

EACH IN TWO RACES

In order to spread out the participation, each Davidson skipper entered two races. Witt Smythe, team captain of The Citadel,
emerged as high-point skipper of the day with one first and three seconds. Lowdermilk was high-point skipper for Davidson, winning
both races in which he participated. Tom Kirtley launched the competition, skippering the first race with Bob Albee as crew.
In that event, Kirtley scored a close second behind Smythe of The Citadel. As a result of a poor start
in the second race, Kirtley fell to last place. Taking over for Davidson in the third and fourth A Division
races, Robertson, with Chip Bellamy as crew, scored a decisive first place in the third race, and coming from behind,
scored a third in the last race.

LOWDERMILK SCORES

Lowdermilk now took over as skipper in the first two B Division races. With Lee as crew, Lowdermilk placed first
in both his races. In the second of these races, Lowdermilk protested Lane Sikes of The Citadel for committing a
right-of-way foul at the windward mark. The outcome of this protest was not deliberated until the protest committee met after
the final race. Lee now took the tiller for Davidson.In the final two B Division races, with Lowdermilk as crew,
Lee scored well-sailed first and second places, losing by a slim margin to Sikes in the final race.

PROTEST DECISION DECISIVE

The final scores before the protest committee met gave Citadel a three-point lead over Davidson with scores of 35 to
32. Lowdermilk's protest was upheld, however, and The Citadel lost all points for that race. This gave Davidson the victory.
Both the College of Charleston and Old Dominion skippers were hampered by the heavy winds on three of the last
four races and light crews. As a result, neither of these schools could match the speed of the Davidson and
The Citadel boats, whose heavy crews and heavy air experience gave them a distinct advantage. An Old Dominion boat lost
a man overboard when hit by a gust of wind, and a College of Charleston boat capsized because of an
accidental jibe.

FACE CHARLESTON RACE

Today the Davidson ducks travel to Charleston, S.C. for the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association Spring championship. The Wildcats should
prove strong contenders for top honors, with the College of Charleston and The Citadel also pegged as tough foes. Wind
currents and tidal waters will probably present serious problems to Davidson's team and give the coastal teams a strong advantage.
The Wildcat sailors, however, hope to finish in the top three places.

BOATS LOCK IN DEAD HEAT

Turn Violation Here Costs Citadel Win

Sigma Nu’s, Independents Shoot 74 To Capture IMAC Golf Tournament

The KA’s and the Betas tied for fifth place at 76, both teams going out in 39 and coming in
with a 37. The Sigma Nu golf team of Bobby Burch and George Armstrong shot a two under par 34
on the back nine at Mooresville’s golf course to tie the Independents’ duo of Don Sewell and Bill Seigler at
a total score of 74. Cold winds failed to chill the Nu’s, who, after going out in 40 strokes, roared
down the back nine in 34 shots, including birdies on the front nine, while Seigler’s hot putter led the Independents
to a back nine of 36. Bobby Lanier and Joe Williamson's 38-out, 37-in totaled 75 to give the Sigma Chi’s
a tie for third with Phi Gams’ Rick Graham and Mike Westall, who went out in 39 and closed with
a 36.

The Pi Kapps captured seventh place with a team score of 77. Both Yates Fletcher and Joe Scales had to
scramble for their front nine score of 41, but Fletcher was sharp enough on the back nine for the duo
to handle it in 36 strokes. Scales’ steady play complemented Fletcher's comeback to give the Pi Kapps the strength to
finish one stroke ahead of the eighth place teams. Eighth place was shared by the Kappa Sigs and the Phi
Delts at 78. Sigs Ray Garrison and Chip Clark went out with a 41. Garrison's strong second nine led to
a team score of 36 for those holes. Delts Bill Thompson and Dave Moser both played steadily in fashioning their
39-39-78. The SAE’s finished ninth at 82. Ed Armfield and Dave Hubbard soared to a 43 on the front nine
but managed a 39 on the back. Freshman Warren Bellows shot an 82 for East. The other freshmen, Paul Rothert,
Joe Carr, Rick Sanders, Jack Crumbly, and Allen Pusey, failed to turn in their cards.

Pikas Sam Aycock and Brady Dickinson fared worse on the front than the SAE's by shooting a 46. A back
nine of 39 gave them an 85 total. ATO Jim Cooley was forced to bear the heavy load when teammate
Andy Clay had a rough time. Clay was low man only on the second hole. The Taus totaled 42-44 for
an 86. SPE’s Joe Friebele and Jim Reinoehl both shared Clay's misfortune. Their 52-51 round of 103 placed them a
distant last in the field. IMAC volleyball and tennis competition will begin next week. Next year's officers will be selected
at Monday's IMAC meeting.

Cold Batting Costs Basemen Pair Of Tilts With Furman

Lady Luck continued to evade the Davidson baseball team as they fell to Furman twice at Greenville, S.C., last Saturday,
8-1 and 9-0. The ‘Cats played much-improved baseball in the field, but again the bats could not get warmed up.
Buddy Durham was tagged with the loss in the first game, with Mackey Reavis being the victim in the second.
The ‘Cats lost the services of catcher Hank Strickland who was required to go to a football practice where he
suffered a broken foot. Jack Smith got the chance to catch for the first time in his life and did
what Coach Tom Stevens called “a real good job.” Smith had two hits in the first game and one in
the second. David King also had a hit in the first game. The second game saw Stew Brown, Dick Lindsey,
Claude Owen, and King get safeties along with Smith. Frank Murphy played second base for the 'Cats in the absence
of Skip Waite and did a job with which Stevens was quite pleased.

GEORGIA SOUTHERN WINS

Georgia Southern came to Davidson Tuesday for a single game for which the ‘Cats seemed to be fired up. They
got off to a 3-0 lead, the big blow being a two-run double by catcher Waite. Gene Bennett pitched well
for three innings before the Eagles could get to his deliveries. Charlie Elliott came on in the seventh and finished
the game, allowing one run. The final score saw Georgia Southern ahead, 7-3.

FIVE HITS

In the game, the ‘Cats scratched four other hits to go with Waite's blast. Smith continued on his streak with
two hits, and Brown and King got one each. Every member of the 12-man squad saw action, as the team
played well afield against what may be the best team they face. Team batting leaders going into Saturday's conference doubleheader
here with The Citadel’s Bulldogs are Brown, with a .232 average and seven RBI's; Smith, with a .214 average and
four RBI's; Owen, with a .200 average and four RBI's; and Waite, with a .196 average and six RBI's. Dave
King has been hitting consistently for the last few games and seems determined to finish strong, as do Lindsey, Ray
Logan, and Murphy.

Pitching for Davidson tomorrow in the first game, which begins at 1:30 p.m., will be Buddy Durham. The second game
will see Elliott on the hill for Davidson. Both Durham, with an ERA of 4.29, and Elliott, with an ERA
of 3.74, hope to move the team ahead of the Bulldogs with victories.

Thursday saw the Wildkittens close out their schedule with a 3-2 victory over a tough Gardner-Webb team to whom they
lost earlier. “Lefty” Clark Nickerson won his third game in as many starts in hurling the team to their fifth
win against two losses and one tie. Gordon Slade struck the big blow for the ‘Kittens with a two-run single
in the sixth, which put them ahead to stay. G-W could manage only five hits off the crafty Nickerson, who
had two hits to aid his own cause.

STEVENS PLEASED

Coach Stevens was quite happy with the frosh this year. “This is the best freshman team we've had here in
eight or nine years,” Stevens said, “and is the most wins ever posted by a frosh team. They have several
boys who should be a big help to the varsity next year.” Stevens also said the new baseball field will
be officially dedicated May 6. The ceremony will be short and will take place before the game with Belmont Abbey
at 2 p.m. “We'd like to have a good crowd for this game, since the administration will be officially present,”
said Stevens.
