Page Four March 3, 1967 The Davidsonian

Proposed Faculty Constitutional Draft Analyzed

ED. NOTE: This is the first of a series of four articles by Mike Bates, who has been studying the proposed faculty constitution with Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, chairman of the faculty committee which drafted the document. In the next articles, Bates will examine specific parts of the draft.

By MIKE BATES
Editorial Correspondent

The proposed draft for a new faculty constitution may well have more effect on Davidson’s future than the Blue Sky Committee, the Ford Grant, or any other event in recent Davidson history. Largely, this draft is an expression of present practice. However, when the Faculty Constitution Committee made custom explicit, it had to decide what present practice actually is. That is, it had to define the present situation, which is certainly the first step necessary for institutional progress.

The proposed draft goes beyond a simple formalization of current assumptions and practices. It also changes the organization of the faculty to provide for greater flexibility and strength. The changes are evident in the new committee structure, which would replace the present disorder and informality.

The present committee structure is exactly what one would expect to result from 100 years of functioning without a constitution. There are now 30 standing committees, none of which have certain knowledge of their responsibilities and jurisdiction. Present standing committees range from the Executive Committee and other elective committees to an assortment of appointive committees, such as the Engineering Committee, the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Committee, and the powerful committee on the language lab. Current practice makes many of these committees practically autonomous. Unless a faculty member wants openly to ask in a faculty meeting that a certain committee report its activities, these committees need never tell the full faculty what they are doing.

The new draft would require as a routine procedure an annual report from each committee. Such a report would describe the committee's activities over the past year and the policy assumptions under which it operates. This simple change would make reevaluation of policy an easy possibility. It would thus structure flexibility and possibility for change right into the constitution. The permanent Blue Sky Committee provided for in the new draft also does this, as do the new responsibilities for the Executive Committee.

In contrast, present practice often requires that policy evaluation take place outside the permanent structure. The recent establishment of the Blue Sky Committee shows this. In other words, the present system is structured for reaction rather than real policy-making. The proposed structure multiplies possibilities but certainly does not decide policy. The men who fill the positions of responsibility would continue to do that.

The Faculty Constitution Committee considered the possibility of representative faculty government, such as establishing a faculty senate. However, their draft would continue the present participational system. It would strengthen this system by placing a limit of three consecutive years of service on members of an elective committee. No faculty member, other than the president or one of the deans, would be allowed to serve simultaneously on more than one of the following committees: the Executive Committee, the Committee on Educational Policy, and the Committee on Student Life. In effect, these limits would promote greater participation and...

CHANGES NEEDED

Priest Dubs Celibacy

(Staff Photo by Olson)

FATHER CONROY ASKS

Does The Ministry Require Celibacy?

By MARVIN ELLISON
Staff Writer

Father Donald Conroy, a Roman Catholic priest, argued in chapel Tuesday that celibacy is soon “to come to the surface as the no. 1 issue of the Catholic Church.” Conroy, chaplain of students at the University of Minnesota, said, “Celibacy raises the question of the personal freedom of a man called to the ministry. It is man searching for self-determination.”

Interested in contemporary religion and a participant in the civil rights march at Selma, Ala., Father Conroy had begun his talk with comments about Catholicism and its involvement with current issues and problems, both within and outside of the church. He told of a meeting held last year for the discussion of United States policy in Vietnam. Roman Catholic bishops on this continent were invited to attend, but only one bishop sent a representative. Conroy quoted Robert McAfee...

Debate Team Competes in National Tournament

The Davidson Debaters flew to Philadelphia this morning for their last tournament of the year. Tom Rhodes and Greg Haynes are representing Davidson at the fifth annual Liberty Bell Tournament at the University of Pennsylvania.

“This will be the most challenging tournament we've ever been to, both in competition and scheduling,” Rhodes stated. Top teams from all over the nation, especially the New York area, are competing for national ranking in eight rounds. This is the first time this year that Davidson will have five debates in one day. “It’s a real challenge to think straight after nine hours of debate,” Haynes pointed out.

Also this weekend, the Davidson Novice Debaters travel to Lenoir-Rhyne for their Novice Tournament. Competition in this tournament is limited to debaters in their first year of varsity competition. Debate coach Ray McMillin will accompany this group and act as an official judge.

Plans for Davidson's affirmative case this weekend are secret, but the national topic is—“Resolved: The United States should substantially reduce its foreign policy commitment.”

The University of Pennsylvania tournament is Haynes’ last appearance for Davidson. Regardless of his performance there, he will graduate with the highest total-point score in several years.

Davidson Library Adds Microfilms

The Davidson library has completed its microfilms of the Charlotte Observer with films of the Observer from 1892 to the present. In addition, microfilms of the Charlotte Daily Journal of 1883 and the Charlotte Chronicle from 1886-92 have been acquired. The library also has acquired on microfilm the New York Times from September 1851 to date and the London Times from 1785 to date.

THREE BROTHERS TAVERN
Owners: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
DINING AND DANCING
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414Brown's reaction to this apparent apathy on the part of the bishops to the war. Brown had said, "What today is lack of action, tomorrow will be called an act of open immorality." Conroy, who was speaking in an informal and relaxed manner, then made some comments on a Catholic issue of more personal concern to him—the question of celibacy in the church. Defining celibacy as legislation by the Roman Catholic Church which requires its ministry to remain unmarried, Father Conroy explained his own position: "I am not talking of virginity, and this is not an issue of whether celibacy is a way of showing authentic expression of Christian life." Although celibacy is a law of the church, he cautioned that the basis of any legislation must be human freedom. "When we have had a law of church legislation for a good reason, it does not mean that legislation exists as a good law today."

One possible problem with the proposed draft from the students’ point of view is the rule against disclosing opinions of individuals or groups expressed within faculty meetings (Article III, Section 10). The form found in the proposed draft is a very strong statement, far stronger than the committee really intends for practice. This particular rule is evidence of a patronizing and paternalistic attitude toward students. That is, the rule would require not only that the faculty continue to meet behind closed doors, which is undesirable enough in student opinion; but also this rule would prevent students from knowing after the meeting what took place. Presently students can generally learn the latter. Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, chairman of the Faculty Constitution Committee, says that the rule is to prevent misrepresentation of the views expressed at a meeting. He calls it "unprofessional" to disclose such views. Actually, however, the real motive involved if the faculty adopts this rule is largely the prevention of effective student influence on faculty members concerning issues discussed at meetings. Stopping the flow of information is certainly an effective, but ever so expensive method of preventing misrepresentation of views. Because of the real nature of the issue, Brinkley has no right to suggest unprofessionalism.

For students, the following sentence in the preamble is significant: Advancement and transmission of knowledge, development of Christian character, matters relating to academic freedom, and professional integrity are necessarily the concern of all." (The emphasis is mine). This sentence points to the fact that the Faculty Constitution is more than just a faculty document. Because of its importance to the whole college, it is of great concern to everyone, not only faculty. Therefore, it seems a legitimate request that at least one of the "open" forums planned for March really be open.

Top Catholic Issue
Celibacy, Conroy remarked, "has often been called a 'package deal'." He feels as if he has been called to be a priest, and then he gets celibacy with it. Concluding with several of his own predictions, Conroy anticipates a formal disassociation of the clergy and celibacy. "I expect to see a married clergy in about five years," he said.

Challenge Funds $1.5 Million Short
Davidson lacks about $1.5 million in its current Ford Challenge Program, the goal being $5.5 million by June 30, 1968, it was announced Saturday night. Ford has promised to match the college's funds with $2.2 million in challenge grants. President D. Grier Martin announced the program's progress at a dinner for about 70 residents of Mecklenburg County. The president praised local alumni, parents, and friends for raising $524,825 by their own efforts but noted that the Ford program is still unfinished.

Pipe Smoker
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
maton michel
217 W. Tryon St.
375-9723
Charlotte

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Rugged in wear ... masculine in look!
BOSTONIANS
For the man who wants and demands the "traditional" brogue look, we offer this beautifully crafted Bostonian in Cortina Calf. Add full leather linings, storm-welts, and stout heavy leather soles and heels, for the extra long wear that lowers your cost.
32.00

GOOD LUCK, WILDCATS!
We are pulling for you to win the Conference Tournament.
FAMOUS BRAND CLOTHING FOR THE PACE SETTING TRADITIONALIST
Use Your Charge Account
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

La Roma — CHOICE
Rendezvous in Charlotte at Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL (OUR NEW DEPARTMENT)
ARTIST'S SUPPLIES
"Permanent Pigment"
BRUSHES
SKETCH BOARDS
Regular Policy 10 Per Cent Off On Sales Of $5.00 Or More
OILS & ACRYLICS (In Studio Tubes) 20% Off (Art Supplies Only)
THE STUDENT STORE
ONE WEEK — MARCH 4 - 11

The Air Force doesn’t want to waste your college education any more than you do. Are you afraid of becoming part of the woodwork on a job? Your career stunted by boredom? Few promotions in sight? You didn't go to college for that. And it needn't happen, either. Because you can pick the United States Air Force as your employer. Career opportunities are so vast... you'll get a better chance to specialize where you want...in the forefront of modern science and technology.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
Box A, Dept. SCP.72
Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148

Name (please print)
Address
City
State
ZIP
College
Class

Suppose, just for example, you wanted to be involved in Electronics. This area alone includes Communications-Electronics, Missile Electronics, Avionics, and others. And these, in turn, involve administrative, research, and other technical aspects. That's just a tiny part of the whole Air Force picture. Just one brilliant opportunity area among many.

You'll enjoy good pay, promotions, chance to travel, active social life, fine retirement benefits. And you'll be serving your country, too. Or maybe you want to fly? That's great. The Air Force is certainly the place to do it. As a college graduate you want something extra out of life—to aim at an exciting goal. So send in this coupon. Make sure you don’t get stuck where nothing much is happening.