This Week: Pink Lemonade, Too
VOL. LVI

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1967

Students Support Music with New Concord Road Site

According to the poll taken in chapel Tuesday, students overwhelmingly prefer the site across Concord Road for the new library. That site received 506 votes. The nearest competitor was the Lingle Manor site which received 47 votes. Student Body President Tom Barnhardt stated that he felt response was excellent. “People did a good job filling out the polls.” He also stated the hope that since no final decision has been made, student opinion will be studied carefully. The site in front of East and Cannon dorms was third, while the location in front of Watts, Little and the Guest House was the fourth choice.

Student Opinion Committee chairman Chuck Green said, “I think the students were taking this poll seriously because they feel that this is one area of campus life where their voice must be heard, and it is the job of the Student Opinion Committee to communicate effectively the students’ opinion to the administration.” Green also said that a large part of the questionnaires had extra suggestions on them. “Lingle Manor, the laundry and Jackson Court were the sites most often mentioned,” he said. There were many other sites suggested, such as across from the ATO house and opposite from the Cunningham Fine Arts Center across Main Street.

When asked about the influence the poll would have in the committee's final decision, Fred Sackett, assistant to the president, said, “I think that it will be considered along with all other factors by the library committee.”

TRUTH STRESSED

Scientist Explores Morality:
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

The exciting and often ignored relationship of science to ethics and to the imagination was explored by the third and last of this year’s Reynolds Lecturers, Dr. Jacob Bronowski, in a two-day visit to the Davidson campus. Born in Poland and educated in England, Bronowski is presently a Senior Research Fellow at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego, Calif. Although trained as a mathematician, he has made important contributions to intellectual history, the philosophy of science, and the scholarship of William Blake.

Bronowski addressed the student body in chapel Tuesday morning on the topic “Science and Ethics.” His lecture Tuesday evening dealt with “Science and the Imagination.” In addition, Bronowski further discussed his ideas at coffee hours Tuesday and Wednesday in the Morrison Room.

“We have been taught,” Bronowski contended in Tuesday’s chapel, “that science does not have an ethic. Science is neutral. It does not tell us how we ought to act.” But between 1945 and 1953, he admitted discovering a fallacy in this belief. What he recognized was that science was changing people's attitude toward life. But if science were simply a “large loose bundle of facts,” it could have meant nothing in this respect. Instead, Bronowski visualized science as progressing through people doing things and then reporting what they had done. “Science is a cooperative process,” he said. “It is wrong to think that it could have been invented by one man if he had worked hard enough.”

Science with Lemonade

Pink lemonade and cotton candy will enhance the spring beauty of the Wind Ensemble’s outdoor concert Sunday at 4 p.m. More than 100 people lounged in the shady grassiness of the Quadrangle between the old Elm and Oak dorms for last week's concert. Sunday's program will be of the same type as that used last week as it features light classical music, show tunes, and marches designed to appeal to the entire college family. In case rain dampens the sunny laziness that was apparent last week, the concert will be moved into J. Spencer Love Auditorium.

Science proceeds out of the work of a community of scientists. It therefore, he concluded, had to have an ethic. In explaining the scientific ethic, Bronowski began by defining an ethic as “a system of social behavior in humankind in which both the society and the individual are valued.”

(Staff Photos by Olson)

SCIENCE AND ETHICS
Bronowski Explores Relationships

REPORT EXAMINES CONSTITUTION REVISION (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-NINE

Current Athletic Policy Endorsed By Trustees

Present Subsidization Held Not Inconsistent With Goals

The faculty received Tuesday a trustee recommendation that the current subsidization of athletics be maintained. The recommendation, in the form of a report passed last week during the trustees’ spring meeting, concluded that a continuation of the present system of subsidization was not inconsistent with the goals of the college. The trustees’ action came in response to a petition signed by 68 faculty members and presented to the board a year ago. The petition was not adopted by the faculty as a whole.

The faculty petition requested that the living endowment be disassociated from the system of grants-in-aid for athletes. It also recommended the elimination of athletic scholarships as they are presently administered. In reply, the trustees explained that the current program is probably cheaper over a period of years than a non-subsidized program would be, and also that athletic scholarships are important in helping to develop a well-rounded student body. The faculty will take no further action.

In other action at its Tuesday meeting, the faculty adopted the trustee amendment to its new constitution, which now goes into effect; rescinded its approval of the fraternity affiliation proposals pending the college budget, showing 51 per cent.Further study: still maintain a certain dependence on others. This is especially true of the scientific community in which progress depends on the condition that the individual scientist as well as his contemporaries are "telling the truth." The idea of "telling the truth" emerged from Bronowski’s remarks as the basic ethical value of the scientific community. It led to a condition in which each member of the community could depend upon the truthfulness of the work of his fellows. But a problem was raised when this ethic came into contact with those who were not members of the scientific community. Bronowski asked the controversial question, "How ought science to behave in a society in which scientists tell the truth but in which others are more interested in making the front page?"

In concluding his remarks, Bronowski recognized the scientists as part of a community bound by certain concepts among which he listed honesty and integrity. But since scientific truth is always changing, a closed system cannot be constructed, but rather one which lends itself to change. "Science," he noted, "is a body of provisional truth which is constantly trying to become a body of less provisional truth."

The constitutional amendment makes the president—and the dean of the faculty in his absence—an ex officio member (with vote) on each faculty committee. The first action taken under the new constitution was the election of a Committee on Professional Affairs which will serve as the nominating committee for all faculty committees. Because of the new constitution, each faculty committee will have to be elected or appointed or the present committee re-elected. Chosen for the Professional Affairs group were Professors Joseph T. Drake, John A. McGeachy, Alan B. Brinkley, Charles E. Ratliff, and John B. Kelton. McGeachy was also elected secretary of the faculty for three years.

The faculty rescinded its stand on the fraternity affiliation proposals at the request of the trustees. Faculty members endorsed the program in principle as it was expressed, however, and will take it up again early in the fall semester. Action on the Residence Hall Council was postponed until next fall because the faculty felt improvements in the language of the constitution and in the constitution itself could be made by that time, according to Sackett. He said that the faculty approves of the council in theory, but they want to wait to see what reform the Student Council might make to avoid confusion. Next semester, the formation of the proposed Residence Hall Council would not come up until next fall.

Budget Figures Released
By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

General figures for the 1967-68 percent of the $39 million devoted to instructional costs were revealed this week by Treasurer Robert Currie. "We don’t have final figures yet and probably won't have them for a couple of weeks," Currie explained. He said that the administration submitted an estimated budget to the trustees a week ago, but that it did not include increased compensation figures that will actually be in effect next year.

The college expects to earn about $2.65 million from its educational and general categories, according to Currie’s figures. This will cover administration costs and the costs of the offices of the registrar, dean of students, and admissions as well as Student Council, Artist Series expenses, and staff benefits. From auxiliary enterprises, the college hopes to earn about $750,000. Such funds come from money earned from students’ room costs, the laundry, Guest House, College Union, snack bar, and other sources. From the living endowment, $380 thousand will be appropriated for student aid. To balance the budget, reserve funds built up by the college will be dipped into $76,000 as was done this year. Currie said that they hope to be able to balance the budget without dipping into these funds in 1968-69 with additional income from a tuition increase.

"STAMP OUT REALITY"
McKellar Sports His Wares
Davidson Pinned By Button Craze
By KEN COOL
Staff Writer

Davidson students are getting stuck on a craze for slogan-bearing buttons. Buttons reading "Chaste Apple Pie" and "Makes Waste" and "Makes You Sterile" are samples of the wares that Bob McKellar and Ken Tarleton are selling on campus. McKellar and Tarleton said that they had started selling these buttons in recent weeks after seeing an advertisement in a hippie magazine, Evergreen Review. They inquired about the ad and found that they were eligible as sales representatives.

Other examples of the topical buttons include such slogans as "Stamp Out Reality," "Kill A Commie For Christ," "I Only Followed Orders," "Jewish Power," and other selections of a more coarse nature. Both McKellar and Tarleton said that they initially planned to sell the buttons just to their Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity brothers. "Then it started mushrooming," McKellar said. "We placed an order for 170 buttons and most students bought about two or three buttons." Because of the volume of business, the buttons were sold at a cheaper price than the company could sell them.

Tarleton said there were four major categories of buttons: anti-war, obscene, hippie, and anti-establishment. Both Tarleton and McKellar hypothesized that one could tell a lot about people by the buttons they buy. The obscene buttons, the best sellers on campus, revealed much about students at Davidson. Mainly, it showed a "disappointing lack of culture," according to McKellar and Tarleton. Jokingly, they said, "We feel that this (the purchase of obscene buttons) is an essential negation of authentic existence."