VOL. LVI The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY,
MAY 19, 1967 SECOR FIRES ONE LAST SHOT (See Page Two) NUMBER THIRTY

Blue Sky Committee Urges Voluntary ROTC, 3-Term Calendar, Multi-Track Requirements

National Offices To Offer Affiliation Plan Changes

Officers of the several fraternities having objections to Davidson's proposed affiliation plan have agreed to submit their recommendations for a
suitable revision. The student body was represented by IFC past-president Mike Booe and current president Gus Cochran. Both students were
praised for their contributions to the meeting. Both Sackett and Covington said that “as representatives, the students did an excellent
job."

The proposed amendments will be presented to the faculty as a result of the May 12 meeting between faculty and
national fraternity secretaries. Tom Covington, fraternity liaison officer, said that although nothing specific was suggested at the meeting, those nationals
which had specific concerns about the affiliation plan will prepare briefs of those concerns and submit them to the college
for consideration. Assistant to the President Fred Sackett noted that communications between the faculty and the national offices were greatly
improved by the meeting. He said that the objections cited at the meeting were not as strong as the administration
had feared.

Covington described the meeting as “very useful," saying that it gave both sides an opportunity to “air most of their
differences.” He added that although there were some “honest differences” between the views expressed, everyone in attendance was hopeful that
these differences could be resolved. Ten of the 12 fraternities on campus were represented. One representative was forced by illness
to miss the meeting. The other absent representative gave no reason for his failure to attend.

“There were several groups which had real reservations,” said Covington. “Most of these differences centered around the term ‘social affiliate.’
In most of the cases we were able to explain the unique nature of the Davidson affiliate.” According to Covington,
four attending officers strongly favored the proposed plan. He said that these four “feel very secure” with the plan and
have expressed “no differences whatsoever.”

The plan was presented to the faculty by the Interfraternity Council earlier this year in answer to a faculty ultimatum
calling for a re-evaluated fraternity plan. It calls for 100 percent fraternity affiliation. The May 12 meeting was set up
after several national offices threatened to suspend or revoke charters of local chapters. Their actions resulted from a disagreement over
the status of Davidson social affiliates.

Covington said, “I think both Gus and Mike were very careful to represent the general student feeling. The national officers
were very impressed by their presentations.” Commenting on the future of Davidson fraternities, he added, “I'm confident that Davidson College
is not interested in destroying the national affiliation which it has held for so many years. I'm confident that the
fraternities have set the best course possible for the future. I hope that it isn't a collision course."

Student Picketer Draws Fine From Greensboro City Court

By CHUCK GREEN Staff Writer

A Davidson student was fined $10 and costs Monday on a charge of trespassing while picketing at Cone Mills, Inc.
home offices in Greensboro. The case of a second student, charged with disorderly conduct, was dismissed because the arresting officer
failed to appear in court. Both cases were tried by the Greensboro Municipal County Court. Both students were picketing at
Cone Mills’ offices May 2, along with other students from area colleges and members of the Textile Workers Union of
America. The union struck Cone Mills plants during the period of April 30 - May 6 due to disputes between
the union and the company over wages and bargaining procedures.

The union paid the first student's fine and court costs and furnished a lawyer for both. The defense for the
student charged with trespassing centered around the fact that the defendant did not know that he was under threat of
arrest. The tactics of the company paid, plain-clothes deputy sheriffs with concealed badges were also questioned. The fined student pointed
out that the trespassing law states that a person must first be warned not to enter the property in question,
and then he has...

Council Charters Davidson SSOC

A Davidson Chapter of the Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC) was chartered by the Student Activities committee Wednesday. The chartering
had originally been delayed, according to Tom Earnhardt, student body president and chairman of the committee. The delay, however, was
due to lack of a definite statement of purpose for the Davidson campus. The group was chartered unanimously by the
faculty-student group when a statement of goals at Davidson was produced.

Junior Hi’s Get Tutors’ Aid

By ROBERT PYEATT Assistant Managing Editor

Approximately 15 disadvantaged Charlotte junior high school students are coming to Davidson every Saturday morning for tutoring by Davidson students
through Project Opportunity. The students, from Irwin Avenue High School, are taught geometry, English, science, geography and world affairs, according
to Roger Ward, Richardson Scholar and director of the tutoring. Ned Kelly and Phil Jones are other tutors. The purpose
of the program is to select disadvantaged students with high academic potential and to prepare them to enter college by
the time they graduate from high school. Only one student out of 100 that enter Irwin Avenue High School will
go to college.

Project Opportunity is financed by the Ford Foundation and sponsored by the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges. It currently
involves 11 schools and 17 colleges in eight states. “Participating colleges -- in this case Davidson -- will eventually offer
admission and scholarship help to a small number of Project students,” explained Chris Sanford, Charlotte director of the Project. “Meanwhile,
they, their faculties and student bodies, have accepted an obligation to offer a variety of assistance to Project students.”

Project Opportunity first began at Davidson last summer by bringing the students to campus for cultural events, tutoring by faculty
members and faculty wives, and use of the college facilities. History Professor Norman Johnson is chairman of the faculty committee.
This year Kelly began the tutoring part of the Project and Ward later headed it. Jones will direct the tutoring
next year.

“The students are very sharp, believe me,” Ward said. “Some of them are very well informed. It’s been so popular
at Irwin Avenue School that for the number of people who have applied and can qualify we would need a
tutorial staff of 12 or 13.” The Project is planned to run for the next 15 years. Each group of
seventh graders who are selected will be tutored through high school and will remain in the Project through college. Project
Opportunity will continue until the sixth and last group of seventh graders selected has graduated from college.

Johnson explained that Project Opportunity is a pilot program to determine if disadvantaged children can be taken as late as
the seventh grade and prepared for college. According to Sanford, “Its purpose is to select academically talented youngsters from disadvantaged
backgrounds, to motivate them academically, to strengthen them academically, to improve their cultural background, to offer extra guidance, and ultimately
to...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"See them enter college and be successful there." "Next year Project Opportunity and the Student Tutorial Education Program will coordinate
activities, including a joint recruiting drive," said Jones. Sanford emphasized the high potential of the students in comparison with their
poor educational background.

Institution of a three-term college calendar, new graduation requirements, and abolition of compulsory ROTC are among proposals of the Blue
Sky Committee Report, presented to the faculty this afternoon. The recommendations will be discussed at an open faculty meeting Tuesday
at 2:30 p.m. The Blue Sky Report marks the preliminary report of a curriculum study planned to culminate with a
new curriculum in the fall of 1968. The curriculum change, prompted by the recent Self Study Report, will provide the
first major curriculum changes for Davidson in several decades. The new academic calendar would run from September to June, with
students taking three courses in each of the first two terms and two courses the third term.

FRONTIS JOHNSTON to be asked to leave before he can be arrested. The second student said that there was a
"no trespassing" sign posted on Cone Mills' property but that none of the pickets had seen it because the picket
line did not "go all the way down to the sign."

Edited Text Of Report See Page Three

New graduation and core requirements would include 32 courses for graduation. Area examinations before the start of the junior year
are also recommended in four general areas—languages, literature and the arts, religion and philosophy, natural science and math, and social
science. The report proposes that ROTC be put on a voluntary basis for no academic credit and encourages the development
of a new experimental program in officer training. Reduction of faculty teaching loads to nine hours is also recommended. A
statement to the faculty appearing with the report emphasizes that it is a "progress report," and that a fuller report
will be presented in the fall. Establishment of a non-credit Career/Service program, on a voluntary basis, for one term of
the junior year was advised in the report. Other recommendations include:

—Continuation of the Junior Year Abroad program "essentially as presently established";
—Establishment of a new freshman English program to replace English 11. Instead, a remedial English program would be offered to
all freshmen not obtaining a certain level of achievement as measured by a prescribed test;
—Continuation of the Humanities program under certain conditions;
—Requirement of a proficiency examination in a foreign language for graduation;
—Establishment of a Learning Center "directed toward independent study and programmed learning";
—Introduction of a Non-Western Studies program in the area of South Asia;
—And establishment of an Honors College for "a limited group of students who show exceptional intellectual ability and maturity."

The Report recognized the fact that "many thoughtful critics now seriously raise the question of whether or not the liberal
arts college can survive." The Report said that the "one glittering fact" of crucial importance in planning the future of
the College is "the high quality of intellectual ability among the students."

Work on the Report has been in progress all semester. A decision at the beginning of the curriculum study to
allow two non-voting student members to sit on the committee marked a milestone in student participation in the educational process
at Davidson. Eleven subcommittees were established to research both proven and untried curriculum possibilities. Target dates for subcommittee reports were
March 1 for five of the subcommittees and April 1 for the others. Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston chaired
the committee, which included professors Frank Bliss, J. O. Embry, Earl MacCormac, J. G. Martin, J. H. Ostwalt, Max E.
Polley, Charles Ratliff, and Locke White.

BACCALAUREATE—Speaker for the June 4 service will be Dr. J. Sherrard Rice, a 1939 Davidson graduate and presently secretary of
the Division of Evangelism of the Board of Church Extension of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. Rice has two sons
at Davidson—Joe, who will graduate this year, and Hunter, who is a freshman.

Ford Program Progresses, But $1 Million Shy Of Goal

Although Davidson's Ford Challenge Program is advancing on schedule, the college is still $1 million shy of the amount necessary
to qualify for Ford's full offer, according to President D. Grier Martin. In an announcement to the Board of Trustees,
meeting here May 5, Martin said that the college had secured $4,579,544 in gifts and pledges, but that the total
must reach $5.5 million by June 30, 1968, before the Foundation will give its full $2.2 million in challenge grants.
"That last million may well be the hardest to secure," Martin said. He added, "The Ford Challenge Program is only
the first phase of Davidson's 'decade of destiny' development program to increase the college's resources by $25.3 million as of
1975."

He praised the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation of Winston-Salem for giving $625,000 to the college, the largest grant received thus
far during the second academic year of the three-year Ford Challenge Program. With its grants earmarked for faculty salaries and
other instructional costs, the Reynolds Endowment at Davidson was first established in May 1964, and with recent addition now totals
$1,875,000. The president noted that "the Ford Challenge Program goal is being achieved on schedule. This experience encourages us to
believe that the tempo of our long-term development effort can, with necessary modifications in technique, be maintained for the entire
decade." Co-chairmen of the Ford Challenge fund drive are William A. White, Jr., of Charlotte and Walter L. Lingle, Jr.,
of Cincinnati, Ohio.

The Ford program funds are being used for many phases of college development. Already Spencer Love Auditorium has been completely
renovated and air-conditioned, the library book stock has been greatly expanded, and the physical education plant improved. The permanent endowment
for faculty salaries and the instructional program will be increased by over $4 million with the successful conclusion of the
program. Scheduled for completion this summer is a thorough renovation and air-conditioning of Chambers building, which is the college's administration
headquarters and main classroom building.
