Che BDavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Louis LESESNE Editor-in-Chief
CHRIS HAWK Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1967

What Price Growth?

The announcement this week of the impending complete renovation of Chambers Building marks a significant step forward in the college’s development. The decision to make far-reaching changes, rather than piecemeal alterations as the needs arrive and are too great to ignore, is a realistic one and one that will prove to be economical in the long run. A half-million-dollar renovation is no small project, and the decision to undertake the project is a salute to the fiscal soundness of the college. But it indicates a dangerous trend that has been popping up in various places: The college may be becoming more a business than it is an educational institution.

Significant decisions are made on the basis of a dollars-cents consideration. Priority for money in the athletic department goes to the money-making enterprises, while the more mundane aspects are played down. Basketball’s recruiting budget, which does not include regular salary expenses, is 10 times as great as that of the intramural program. The per capita differences in the two is astounding. It's the old case of the rich get richer, and the poor, poorer.

Consider the case of the Chambers renovation. The improvements will doubtless improve Davidson’s image to visitors, make working conditions more pleasant and generally improve morale. But such expenditures strike home as inadequate when contrasted with the meager commitments made thus far in such areas as reducing faculty loads and class sizes and strengthening the library. Such changes are less spectacular but unquestionably more significant in the long run.

The same reticence in academic matters extends beyond the financial. The entire institution is affected with an inertia that makes any sort of significant changes difficult, when not impossible. Rumblings from the Blue Sky Committee indicate that the drastic overhaul once predicted may be less far-reaching than originally planned. The faculty refuses to give students the autonomy needed for adults.

Part of the responsibility for the static position may be laid on the student body, for not using its latent powers to pressure faculty and administration. But a group of educated men should not need to wait for undergraduate pressure to make reforms: other colleges comparable to Davidson are going ahead with drastic changes. Davidson will be left in the dust if it refuses to acknowledge that the Twentieth Century is here.

Credibility Gap Revisited

Another chapter in the ever longer book on the so-called “credibility gap” has been written by the Washington Post. Two government agencies whose activities are even more obscure than the FBI, the Central Intelligence Agency and the U.S. Information Agency, are publishing, anonymously, books dealing with U.S. foreign policy, allegedly unbiased but in actuality prejudiced toward the Establishment position.

To U.S. citizens accustomed to such tactics as wiretapping and blatant lying in official pronouncements, such a revelation comes as no surprise. But the odium of such actions by agencies forbidden to act in the realm of intelligence gathering or dissemination in the U.S. is undiminished. A typical case works like this: The agency withholds certain information, necessary for a book, on security grounds, and agrees to release it to an author in exchange for rights to edit the entire book—not just the classified parts—a la William Manchester. The book is then published by a private printing house, but with no mention of CIA or USIA participation. Often, one of the agencies will financially subsidize publication or an agency official will even write the book.

The difficulty arises when a legitimate publishing house is involved in ordinary, independently-written books as well as propaganda devices of the government. The entire process casts a pall over the book scene, when the uninformed reader has no way of knowing which books are written independently of government editing and censorship and which have fallen prey to the agencies’ blue pencil.

“It is not government money or government interest itself that sullies books,” says the Post. “All one wants is that government acknowledge its involvement and keep its hands off the writer's work. To ask this is to ask for no more than the government demands of charitable foundations.

“But now there is a double activity, the secret suppression and creation of history, which reinforces the fears of American writers that their government cannot be trusted and that it is not mature or brave enough to subsidize the open dissemination of ideas.”

Moratorium On AB

Following are excerpts from an address by Louis T. Benezet, president of the Claremont Graduate School and University Center, to the National Conference of Academic Deans in Los Angeles several weeks ago.

Over the past decade, the teachers’ war cry has been, “Excellence!” This cowed the students for a while; but in the past two years they have summoned their forces enough to hurl back their own rebel yell, likewise consisting of one word, “Relevance!”

A prevailing faculty legend is that students are coming from high school so well prepared in their subjects that the first two years of college bore them stiff. Like most generalities about college education, the claim is innocent of statistics.

We ride on an academic carousel. Presidents and deans chase after professors pleading with them to teach more but rewarding them for teaching less. Professors chase students with tighter academic requirements and more specialized subject matter, under the banner of excellence. Students chase the administration asking for more freedoms on and off the campus.

Let us face it: the 1960’s have not been a vintage decade for humanism, except in what has been shown to be lacking. This is affecting education more than we realize. Students individually are more disturbed, more wracked by anxiety, more inclined to leave college in search of meaning, and less receptive to organized campus life in its various forms. There is a workaday grimness about today’s students.

For the student already happily intent upon his specialty, increasing academic rigor can serve as a compliment, a sort of early invitation into the scholar's guild. But for the student, typically the sophomore, unsure of what he wants or how much of a specialty, or just why he is in college at all, increasing the academic rigor amounts to going past the rack on which the student feels already stretched and giving it a friendly turn.

The sad fact persists that in all our decades of college reforms—and there have been some—we have scarcely budged an inch from the overriding faculty criterion of success for student response: grades.

What I propose is a national moratorium on the A.B. degree. I would do this pending a study of its true meaning and definition for modern times. It is time to admit that “Bachelor of Arts” at present means little or nothing as a symbol for a liberal education.

It may be time to declare the formal general education movement dead in America, to cease bowing to its corpse, and to pursue the spirit of broad learning in fresher ways. Mechanical general education requirements have never really worked; why don’t we admit it? Requirements to take introductory courses in all three major divisions were first introduced 60 years ago. Students still speak of them as something to get over, like a childhood disease. A year later, the retention factor for many is nil.

We should have a thorough study on the A.B. comparable to the historic Flexner report on medical education in the early 20th century. In my judgment, there has not been a period in recent decades when the personal motives of students and the personal motives of professors were wider apart.

ABOLISHES SPACE, TIME

Technology Precludes Non-Involvement

By BILL SCHMICKLE Guest Columnist

My subject is the imperative of technological change; my emphasis is on Marshall McLuhan. There is no way to discuss this adequately in a short editorial. Therefore, I am presenting a very few ideas concerning this subject.

In Understanding Media McLuhan states: “After three thousand years of explosion, by means of fragmentary and mechanical technologies, the Western world is imploding. During the mechanical ages we had extended our bodies in space.

“Today, after more than a century of electric technology, we have extended our central nervous system itself in a global embrace, abolishing both space and time as far as our planet is concerned.

“Rapidly, we approach the final phase of the extensions of man—the technological simulation of our consciousness when the creative process of knowing will be collectively and corporately extended to the whole of human society, much as we have already extended our senses and our nerves by the various media...

“Any extension... affects the whole psychic and social complex... Today action and reaction occur almost at the same time. We actually live mythically and integrally, as it were, but we continue to think in the old, fragmented and time patterns of the pre-electric age.”

McLuhan maintains that the technology of literacy enabled Western man to be able to carry out the “most dangerous social operations with complete detachment” which was a posture of non-involvement. He continues: “In the electric age, when our central nervous system is technologically extended to involve us in the whole of mankind and to incorporate the whole of mankind in us, we necessarily participate, in depth, in the consequences of our every action. It is no longer possible to adopt the aloof and dissociated role of the literate Westerner.”

The importance of this hypothesis becomes clear when one considers the results of its imperatives for total response in contemporary society which is predominantly composed, as I see it, of the common alienated mass man.

“The alienated man,” states Mathilde Niel, “does not think or act by himself: he always refers to something or someone outside himself, to tradition, a creed, an ideology, a transcendent being, or a superior. He does not know how to live either in a dialogue with others or in an interior peace: he always needs someone to worship or to serve, to hate or to fight.

“He spends his life pursuing something, either a material end which has...turned into an absolute (desire for wealth, comfort, the symbols of prestige), or a spiritual end, also turned into an absolute, which leads him to disdain life and the world...” Basically, he is the conformist. According to Fromm, his conformity is a product of the unbearable aloneness, and hence anxiety, which he feels as a modern man freed from the “bonds of pre-individualistic society.” His conformity or adherence to the previously stated concepts is an “escape from the burden of his freedom into new dependencies and submission.” The crucial problem arises when the desire to escape from individualism adopts technology as the escape mechanism. The condition of man today in Western society is one of rapidly changing culture patterns dictated primarily by technological development. Men who find themselves incapable of coping with this rapid transformation become insecure and subsequently many seek new dependencies in which they can gain security and with which they can identify. One of these is specialization and dependence upon technology. Often this is caused by what McLuhan calls “narcissus narcosis,” a psychological state in which men are numbed by technological developments (e.g., the slow adjustment by behavior patterns to radio and television). Many of these men, knowingly or unknowingly, have terminated their creative capacities by so stricturing themselves; these are the alienated masses. The liberated man must bring his views into predominance thus affecting an environment in which men can fully develop their potentialities as free individuals, “advancing to the full realization of positive freedom which is based upon the uniqueness and individuality of man.” If he cannot, it appears that man will become a dependent automaton incapable of self-realization and thus true happiness. Greater than this, though, will be the gap between his moral and social development and that of technology. In societies technologically imploded like the West, conservatism grows: it grows out of man's need for stability and security. Already there is widespread discussion of mankind's moral immaturity in relation to the moral imperatives of nuclear weaponry. Supposedly, man's knowledge in toto will more than double in the next decade: this will be primarily in the field of technology. Our philosophical systems are not keeping up with this development. To paraphrase McLuhan, science today insists on ruthlessly tearing away the false securities we have built up in the names of political ideologies and philosophical systems: science is forcing us to confront it and its absolute demand for realism face to face.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

MacNair Rights Errors In Flag Incident Report

Dear Editor:

The article which appeared in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, concerning the flag incident in the assembly was not one which merely contained careless errors in fact. There have been too many “mistakes” in reporting the activities of the Young Republican Club in the past. The reason for this is a matter which others can answer better than I. But what in fact happened, as opposed to what was reported, ought to be cleared up.

1) The article implied that the Young Republican Club was responsible for the flag. This is false. Two people, acting individually with neither our approval nor disapproval, nor with our knowledge, were responsible. One of the two was not a member of the YRC.

2) It was reported that at the meeting of Wednesday, February 8, the club “overwhelmingly defeated a motion to disassociate any connection with the action in chapel.” There was no such motion introduced or voted upon at that meeting. What the article probably had in mind was a motion to apologize for the event. It was precisely because the club was not associated in the first place with what occurred that an apology was impossible and that the motion was defeated. To have approved the motion would have implied involvement.

3) The flag which the YRC is to buy for the auditorium will be a flag and staff of the kind found in any auditorium. There is a case (too obvious to mention) for having one there in spite of the fact, as the student body president so astutely pointed out, “no flags representing the Soviets, Chinese, or National Liberation Front of Vietnam have been displayed.”

JIM MacNAIR
Davidson YRC
Davidson College

concerned, quite regardless of any point of view! In concluding I wish to stress the importance of understanding fully the nature of change in society today. I believe that Marshall McLuhan in spite of all his shortcomings, is prime source material for this understanding. As he states: “By knowing how technology shapes our environment we can transcend its absolutely determining power. ... My entire concern is to overcome the determinism that results from the determination of people to ignore what is going on.” To be literate, one must today cultivate that “total sensorium” of man; the printed word has become only a fraction of the new literacy.

The Gospel According To John

A MODEST PROPOSAL

I HAVE SAID before that I’m not a crusader, but I guess it only takes sufficient cause to inspire one’s revolutionary zeal, and this week I’m inspired. I hope my appeal will be heard by members of the fair sex as they are welcomed to the campus for the Midwinters retreat. I’m sure that the perennial wine, women, and song column for this time of year is looked for, but I regret to say that it must be left for next year’s columnist. At this time I have more important matters with which I wish to deal. I have dreamed of the headlines that my idea may inspire: “Bailey Challenges Midwinters Format,” “Classic Winter Weekend Doomed,” “Revolution at Davidson.”

MY PROPOSAL involves putting variety in this, the second, of the three big weekends at Davidson. If you are tired of the concert and after-party drag then perhaps you will understand me. Three times during the year three-fourths of the student body has female companionship on the campus for an entire weekend. Let us take advantage of this blessing. Think of the possibilities for real intellectual advancement. At least once during the year let us involve ourselves in two days of concentrated study and discussion with members of the opposite sex. Let’s make Midwinters a search for enlightenment. For once let us feel that we have gained lasting benefit from this weekend. The amazing thing about this proposal is that it can be fulfilled within the very institutional framework in which we already are working. This proposal would not even require the approval of the Trustees or administration. And that is revolutionary in itself. Hear me, curriculum revision committees!

IN PLACE of after-parties the fraternities could have seminar-type meetings in which topics of general interest would be discussed. Each fraternity could appoint a committee to work on the designated topic. For example, the Kappa Alpha brotherhood might discuss “The Emerging South Today,” Phi Gamma Delta—“Building a Better Body,” Sigma Alpha Epsilon—“How to Win Friends and Influence People,” Lingle Manor—“Toward Better TV Viewing,” Kappa Sigma—“The Social Graces,” etc. These discussions would take place at the regular after-party times and with the serving of the now legitimate “heifer-highball” right on campus interest should be stimulated. Yes, this is one mixed drink in which all may imbibe without any fear of recrimination. Of course, additional seminars and speakers would be provided at odd times. Some possibilities are: Mr. E. N. Linker on “Writing Your Own Ticket to Any Place in the World,” Mr. C. W. Stacks on “Winning Basketball,” and Mr. Robert Sailstad on “Chambers Basement: Davidson’s Best-Kept Secret.”

BUT THE SEMINARS, discussions and brief lectures would be subordinated to large assemblies, which would replace the usual concert. Again, Davidson has a great deal of local talent on which to draw. The topics would be treated in great detail. For example, we could have a speaker on “How to Build and Fly Your Own Frisbee” or “The Care, Cleaning, and Organization of Gnome’s Briefcase.” Or we could gain the collaboration of Hattie’s in a treatment of “The Wall Mural as Decoration For Your Dining Room.” This new concept in Midwinters is guaranteed to assure that your date will remember her weekend at Davidson. If you are looking for an entirely new concept in weekends send in your suggestions to someone, and they may be processed or filed. You might be doing a service toward building a bigger and better Davidson, which it seems we are all most interested in doing.

A CHALLENGE

THE WARM DAYS of February cause one to look ahead to the spring. The thought of spring brings the same immediate thought to the mind of everyone—croquet. Yes, the time is approaching when the campus will once again ring with the many clicks of mallet upon ball. I got out the old mallet and went out onto the lawn for a few practice swings. Smooth and easy (wouldn't want to pull a muscle this early in the season), but it seems that mallet gets heavier each year, or am I just getting old? The loft on the face of the mallet will have to be altered as I will need more roll in the coming season than I have been accustomed to in the past. The shaft in the old mallet will need to be shortened a little because I am bent with the burden of too much work. It has gotten so the college man hardly has time to practice his croquet anymore, but I'll find the time. I'll have to.

EDITOR LESESNE and I are already in training, and we do hereby publicly challenge, on behalf of THE DAVIDSONIAN, any two other players to the annual croquet match which will be held on the lawn in front of Chambers at 2:30 P.M. on Saturday, April 15 (Spring Frolics). The challenge has not been accepted during my four years at Davidson, and it is doubtful that The Miscellany will pick up the remnants of the Scripts ‘n’ Pranks team and accept this gracious offer from the reigning champions. If there is more than one challenger to the champion DAVIDSONIAN team a playoff will be necessary to determine who gets the privilege of trying to bring down the champs and win the tradition-riddled loving cup (if we can dig it out of our trophy case). Note: all teams must be representatives of a specific entity on campus; the faculty is welcome to compete if it feels that it can stand the pace.