Page Four — February 9, 1968

The Davidsonian

Maloy takes an easy one, leaning on Ludwig. — Moser readies himself for another defensive session with Williams.

Frustrated Furman Falls As Stall Strategy Backfires

Davidson frustrated a Furman stall Tuesday night and handed the Paladins a 55-40 setback. The win brought the Wildcats’ record
to 6-1 in the Southern Conference and tightened their hold on first place in the league.

The ‘Cats are accustomed to playing a looser, run-and-shoot style of basketball. “We did not play smart against the stall
at first. That’s why it was close at first,” coach Lefty Driesell said. Once the ‘Cats got used to the
slow brand of play they had no trouble controlling the Paladins and winning the ball game.

Guard Dave Moser led the attack, hitting five shots from the outside. Doug Cook's 10 rebounds helped the ‘Cats gain
a 35-19 advantage on the backboards. Mike O'Neill, who had played well as a substitute in the West Virginia game,
came off the bench in the second half to spark a rally that put Davidson out of reach.

Furman Coach Frank Selvy thought that the stall strategy was the only chance that the Paladins had of staying with
the ‘Cats. The slow down kept the game close in the first half. The halftime score was 24-20 in favor
of Davidson.

“A slow down game is a nerve-wracking thing. You have to wait and be patient. If you don’t, it can
beat you,” Driesell said. After Davidson had gained a substantial lead in the second half the ‘Cats further frustrated the
Paladins by going into a slow down game of their own. Sitting on a safe lead, the Wildcats refused to
shoot and forced Furman into a frantic catch-up style of play. After playing the stall all evening, Furman was not
able to play successful come-from-behind basketball. The win brought the overall record of the Wildcats to 14-4. By winning its
last four ball games Davidson has pulled itself up to a tie with Boston College for 13th in the UPI
poll.

Cook hooking a shot past Bailey. Staff photos by Weems

Gridders To Honor Teammates

Awards will be presented to outstanding members of last fall's football team at the squad’s annual dinner, Feb. 21. Four
awards will be presented. The Outstanding Blocker award will be presented to the player whom the coaching staff chooses as
the best blocker on the Wildcats team. The Outstanding Defensive Player award also will be presented. The coaching staff will
choose the best player from the defensive unit for this award. Coach Smith will choose the recipient of the Loyalty
Award. The Most Valuable Player award will be presented to the player whom the players vote the most outstanding for
the season.

Backing a winner is easy.

‘Cats Grab SC Lead With Win Over WVU

Sporting a powerful, evenly-balanced scoring attack, the Wildcats crushed West Virginia University last Saturday, 91-77. Davidson added a tight defense
and an overpowering rebounding performance to win the game before a sell-out Charlotte Coliseum crowd. The victory avenged the earlier
loss at Morganton in overtime and gave the ‘Cats an opportunity to win the regular season Southern Conference competition. Finishing
the season in first in the conference would give Davidson the number one seed in the all-important conference tournament.

The Mountaineers never really frightened the Wildcats, who consistently broke open their sagging defense. Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, Wayne Huckel,
and Rod Knowles pulled in rebounds at both ends of the court to enable the ‘Cats to dominate the boards.
Maloy led the team in rebounds with 15, while Davidson out-rebounded WVU 53-30.

“We played really good defense against them. That is one of the big reasons we were able to win,” Coach
Charles (Lefty) Driesell said. He praised Dave Moser especially for his defensive job on West Virginia star Ron Williams. Moser
held the flashy guard to 16 points. Williams had been scoring an average of over 20 points a game. Maloy
allowed Carey Bailey only six points and six rebounds, far below his season averages in both categories. Maloy led Wildcat
scorers with 16 points. Jerry Kroll, Cook, Huckel, Moser, and Knowles all scored between 12 and 15 points.

“We shot well and were pleased with the balanced scoring of the team,” Driesell added. The ‘Cats shot nearly 52
percent from the floor. But the game was won at the foul line. The Mounties hit 31 field goals to
Davidson's 29. The ‘Cats hit 33 of 42 free throws, however, to provide the winning margin.

Bob Hummell, who scored...

Super-Mountie Williams Tough, Even In Defeat

Ron Williams, West Virginia’s shoo-in for All-Conference and...Strong candidate for All-America, did not play an especially good game against Davidson
Saturday night. Still, he left little doubt in the minds of the nearly 12,000 onlookers that he is one of
the finest guards in the nation. Wildcat Dave Moser did a magnificent job defending the super-Mountie, but Williams was still
impressive with his speed and his playmaking. The outcome of the two games between these two teams this year indicates
that the success of the Mountaineers depends largely on the play of Williams. In the WVU win earlier in the
season, he chipped in 30 big points. His 16 Saturday were not enough to lead his team to a win.
Before the game, Williams acknowledged that the Davidson-WVU game was one of the biggest of the year for both teams.
He recognized the fact that the winner would probably win the top seed in the SC tournament. “This is a
big game, but the tournament is the big thing for us,” Williams said. He said that WVU has great respect
but no fear of Davidson. He added that regardless of the outcome of Saturday’s game, the Mounties would be out
to win the tournament.

Dick Klein, owner of the Chicago Bulls of the NBA, was at the game to scout Williams. Even though Williams
was not having one of his better games of the year, Klein was impressed. “He is good enough to play
in our league right now. I think he is a far better playmaker than Dave Bing,” Klein said. He also
said that Williams could become as good a scorer as Bing, quite a compliment for the Mountaineer since Bing is
currently the leading scorer in professional basketball. Klein said that he would choose Williams in the second round of the
NBA draft if he were still available then. He said that he doubted that a guard of Williams' ability would
survive the first round of the draft. “If he is going to play in our league, he will have to
learn to shoot more and pass less. He played too much of a team game tonight,” Klein commented after the
game. Williams must be ranked as one of the best players the Wildcats will face all season.

Ed 25 against Davidson in the first meeting of the two teams this year, again annoyed the Wildcats. Hummell started
the season as a substitute but gained a starting role before the Jan. 13 Davidson game. In Saturday’s contest, he
tossed in 21 points and kept WVU in the ball game until the ‘Cats pulled away in the second half.

Swimmers Challenge Appies

Davidson's ‘Catfish sought to improve their 2-2 record today in a meet with Appalachian State University at Boone. Next Friday,
the swimmers will host Emory University in a meet in Davidson's home waters. Coach Tom Stevens said that he expects
the team to do well in the meet with Appalachian. Next week’s meet with Emory will begin at 2 PM.
“Our match with Emory should be an exciting, even one. I hope that many of the students will come down
to watch it,” Stevens said. The prospects for the rest of the swim season have been brightened by the return
of team captain Eddie Beach to practice. Beach missed several weeks of workouts when he underwent surgery for a knee
operation in December. “His knee still gives him some trouble kicking,” Stevens added. The injury also prevents him from doing
the kick necessary for the breaststroke. He is also unable to do flip turns. Stevens said that Beach will swim
in both of Davidson’s upcoming meets, probably in the 500 and 1000-yard freestyle events.

Where's the best place in town to eat?

THE WILDCAT DEN

We specialize in:
Pizza
Delicatessen Sandwiches
BIG Hamburgers
“Specials” different each day
Cheese Cake
Carry-out Orders
Bulk Quantities
Quick, efficient service

In a hurry? Call ahead so we can have your dinner waiting when you arrive. See you at THE WILDCAT
DEN!

"ONE OF THE YEAR'S 10 BEST!" —NEW YORK TIMES
"DON'T MISS IT!" —NBC-TV TODAY SHOW

JOSEPH E. LEVINE MIKE NICHOLS LAWRENCE TURMAN

This is Benjamin. He’s a little worried about his future.

THE GRADUATE

CALDER WILLINGHAM... SIMON... GARFUNKEL... HENRY... PAUL SIMON... TURMAN... MIKE NICHOLS... TECHNICOLOR® PANAVISION® and CAABASSY PICTURES

NOW SHOWING

Matinees $1.00
