a. i na a (Staff Photos by Weems)

AN UPSETTING DAY AT THE FIELD
Confusion reigns in freshman flickerball.

SPORTS — DESK
By BOB DUNHAM

Far From The Madding Crowd

The crowds at Davidson’s soccer matches are dwindling constantly, and have reached the point where only a handful of students, a few faculty members, and the coach’s wife show up to watch the game. Occasionally, a few football players cease their wind sprints long enough to cast a glance at the match, and a cross-country runner or two happens by every so often. But for the most part, no one comes to Davidson soccer games. And it seems strange, especially since the team has a winning season and has a good chance at the Southern Conference crown.

I guess it’s only natural. Crowds have been bad for two years, and anything that happens for two years around Davidson becomes a tradition. But the team keeps improving, and being made up of mostly freshmen and sophomores, future hopes are extremely bright. So it seems a real pity that students can’t find time to support the squad.

Soccer is growing in America at a tremendous rate. Crowds at professional soccer games this summer surpassed most of the baseball attendance marks, and more and more high school conferences are adding soccer to their fall sports picture. At some colleges, the turnouts for soccer rival other sports in size. When Davidson played at Belmont Abbey two weeks ago, over 1,000 students jammed the sidelines to see the Abbey play. The Abbey is undefeated this year, and Davidson almost won. Certainly, the team deserves better than 10 or 15 students at its home stands.

After all, Davidson soccer is exciting. There's Cliff Patterson, who seems to be able to stop the ball no matter where it is on the field or how fast it’s going. There’s Bill Horton, and there’s Roger Peterson; the former a sharp-shooter with power in his toes, the latter a dribbler who leaves defenders sprawled all over the field. Then there always is a freak play or two to spice up the game—plays like Dave Dilley’s head-shot goals or Alex Neisler’s bounce-it-off-the-defender’s-back slam shots.

To add flavor to the game, there’s “Salt” and “Pepper.” The names belong to the small men, John Bruner and Randy Carter. Bruner intercepted a pass from a fullback to a goalie a few weeks back and walked it into the goal. The team plays tomorrow morning. The outcome could decide the conference title. So why not go out and watch? It could be a rare opportunity to see a winning Davidson team in action.

BERRY POLL IMAC ANALYSIS
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

Phi Delts

The Phi Delts continue to roll on undefeated in IMAC flickerball, although they survived a scare by the Pikas last week, 14-13. The Delts’ main strength is defense, and they lead the league with the least points scored against them per game. The key to the defense has been the fine, made up of rusher Bill Traxler and ends Hartan Day and mammoth John McCammon. Frank Murphy stands out in the defensive backfield. The Delts are almost as good at scoring points as at preventing them. They are second in the league in this category. Tailback Jack Caldwell and a tricky play selection keep the offense moving.

Sigma Nu

The story of Sigma Nu in this flickerball season has been Bruce Weidner. Without Weidner, the Nus are just a fairly good flickerball team. With him, they are great. With Weidner passing to Steve Hayes, Toby Westmoreland, Tom Skinner, Dale Vash, and John Lambert, the Nus have mounted an explosive offense. Perhaps the offense’s only real weakness has been a tendency to rely on the long pass to too large an extent. This weakness was particularly noticeable in the loss to the Pikas, the only team to beat the Nus with Weidner playing. The only other real weakness of the Nus is a lack of depth. With most players forced to go both ways, they tire easily in the game.

Kappa Sigs

Offense is the word to describe the Kappa Sig flickerball team. They easily lead the league in points scored per game. With Terry Millar and strong-armed Ernie Doe at tailback and with receivers like Greg Cox, the Sigs have built a potent attack which has scored over 30 points seven times thus far. Their biggest point output was in a 72-12 dance over the Pi Kapps. The defense of the Sigs has been more than adequate. They are second in the league in the fewest number of points scored against them per game. Their biggest problem this year has been Bruce Weidner.

Sigma Chi

Sigma Chi has a young but good team, consistent on offense and steady on defense. However, their offense is not quite potent enough and their defense is not quite tight enough to beat the top teams in the league. The key to the Machi offense has been tailback Pete Norton. He is tricky and sets up most of the Machis’ successful plays with an initial dodge of the rusher. Most of the other Machi players are sophomores. Herb Clegg, John Saunders, and Doug Haynes are some of the better ones.

Pikas

The Pikas have come on strong this season behind a containing defense and have given the top teams in the league all they could handle. The Pikas came the closest of anyone to beating the Delts and are the only team to beat Sigma Nu with Bruce Weidner playing. Defense is the key and the keys to the defense have been rusher Stu Brown and backs Joe Lansinger and Mark Affeldt. Brown is the only rusher all season to contain Weidner and should be a candidate for all-IMAC honors at that position.

SAE's

The SAE’s have been great on offense, but the defense has been less than spectacular. The SAE's are just behind the Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs in points scored per game, but their

Booters Tackle The Citadel
By ED DIETRICH
Sports Writer

Davidson's soccer squad gets into the most important part of its schedule tomorrow afternoon as it takes on The Citadel in what could determine the southern division representative to the conference championship. Davidson must defeat the Bulldogs to wrap up the southern division. A tie would mean another confrontation between the two at a neutral field, to decide the lead.

The squad extended its home winning streak Wednesday against a tough Pfeiffer team with a 2-1 comeback win. The team was stalemated by a rugged defense which allowed only three shots in the first half. The team came back in the second half to score twice on goals by Cam McNair and Dave Dilley. Dilley hit a second goal which was called back on an offside call. Once again, the team’s depth carried them through, as the ‘Cats literally ran Pfeiffer into the ground in the final quarter, with Coach Harry Fogleman running in every platoon.

The Wildcats, hampered by minor injuries to several key players during the early season, found the right combination against Furman last Saturday, trouncing the Paladins, 6-0 as Alex Neisler scored twice. Goalies Charlie Heiner andDefense is the worst of any team in the first division. The dichotomy between offense and defense was best illustrated in the loss to the Kappa Sigs, in which the offense scored 33 points, but the defense allowed 37. Charles Brockwell leads the offense. He is speedy and has a strong arm. Other stars are Ed Dannelly, David Branch, and Rusty Mickler.

Betas
The Betas have been one of the most consistent teams in the league, both offensively and defensively. They are in the top half of the league in both categories and thus far have a winning record. Probably their best games were victories over the SAEs and Sigma Chi’s, both by 19-13 margins, and a 47-0 slaughter of the Pi Kapps. The top players for the Betas are Macky Reavis, Ken Crews, Bud Couser, and stalwart junior Charles Cowsert.

ATO’s
The ATO’s could have been high in the final flickerball standings if their defense had developed. Unfortunately for them, the defense has not been strong. In fact, only the hapless Pi Kapps and Independents have allowed more points per game. The offense has been relatively good, however, and has enabled the ATO’s to do as well as they have. Mark Baker, Brad Danielson, and John Durham are the top players.

Phi Gamms
The Phi Gamms have compiled what is for them a disappointing record, as they have won only three games so far. The Gamms have size, but are lacking in speed, and speed is what wins flickerball games. The defense has been relatively strong. The Gamms have been beaten badly only once, and only two teams have managed to score more than 20 points against them.

Sig Eps
The Sig Eps have used a large number of sophomores and juniors to put together one of their better flickerball teams of recent years. The SPE's do indeed have a poor record, but no team has really run over them. Tailback Gary Sigmon and halfback Jim Cantrell lead what could be a good offense if more speed were present. Speed is also a problem on defense.

KA’s
The KA’s are the big disappointment of the league this season, after winning last year’s championship. Neither the offense nor the defense has been particularly good, as the KA’s rank near the bottom of the league in both categories. Romey Fisher, the tailback and one of two returnees from last year's team, is a fine passer, but he has a definite lack of good receivers. Nelson Abell, the other returnee, anchors the defense, but there is no other help there either. Even the return of Dave Dunn to the starting lineup after being red-shirted last year failed to strengthen the team.

Indies
This looks like the year the Indies will finally climb out of the cellar and win a game. When they have all their players, the Indies are actually a presentable team. The offense is fair, but the defense needs lots of work. More speed is needed, particularly in the defensive backfield. The top Indie players are Bill Funderburk, Bob Peele, and Bill Shutt. The team has been weakened recently by the loss of sterling defensive back R. D. ‘Aristotle’ Anderson, who is out with a knee injury.

Pi Kapps
It is difficult to find adjectives to describe the Pi Kapp flickerball team. In the first place, very few people have ever seen the team in action, for rarely do they show up for their games. When they have played it has been somewhat of a carnival affair. The Pi Kapps combine the worst offense, the worst defense, and quite appropriately the worst record in the league. They average 6 points per game while their opponents average 50. Yes, that is 50. To avoid embarrassment, no names of members of the team will be mentioned.