Page Four March 1, 1968

FOUR FACES OF SEAN O’CASEY
Joe Gardner, Bill Graham, Mark Robinson, and Ted Winter

The Drama Dept. will present the dramatization of O’Casey’s rehearsal for “Pictures in the Hallway,” an autobiographical tale of adolescence,
on March 8 and 9 in Hodson Hall at 6:15 p.m. This is a dramatic reading by Irish playwright Sean
O’Casey.

$45,000 NEEDED
To Seek Support

In an effort to meet a proposed budget of $45,000 for the coming year, the Project of the Americas is
looking to large organizations for its principal support. According to Tom Peddicord, PRAM national director, the group hopes to receive
large grants from four or five large organizations in order to finance the bulk of the 1968 budget. They will
apply to several carefully selected philanthropic groups for these grants. In addition, Peddicord said the group hopes to receive several
smaller contributions from local organizations which have given to PRAM in the past.

The PRAM program intends to expand its summer student exchange program this year and at the same time establish a
program of community aid and development, oriented around a pilot project in a slum village in Quito, Ecuador. Peddicord said
this latter effort would be carried on by South American members, but that all PRAM projects derived financial support from
the money raised in the U.S. He emphasized the importance of the annual fund drive this spring and pointed out
that the future success of the organization depended on the results of this effort.

“It’s a pretty crucial year. We want to expand our program this year, yet we are being forced to seek
almost entirely new sources for our funds. This has developed into something of a test period for us,” he said.
Peddicord explained that although there are a number of...

Haverford Gives Student Freedom
By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

Although the total freedom given to students at Haverford College perhaps represents too much of an extreme, there are several
aspects of the Haverford system that Davidson might successfully adopt. This was the consensus of Davidson sophomores Pat Mullen, George
Penick, and Joe Kilpatrick, who spent Feb. 8-11 at Haverford, Haverford, Pa., talking to students and administration. Their trip was
sponsored by the Student Council.

The entire conduct of the Haverford student has but one guiding principle and no definitely stated rules: “Each student shall
be responsible for his proper conduct with respect to women guests and...

MORE CRANKS THAN QUIPS
Reed works late on yearbook deadlines.

Karl Boxer To Present ‘Blow-Up’ Jazz Program

The Karl Boxer Trio, a jazz ensemble, will present a program on jazz Tuesday in the College Union as part
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s “Blow Up ‘68” series. The trio, based in Charlotte, will present a short jazz concert, to
be followed by Boxer’s presentation of a dissertation on “The Aspects of Jazz.” A discussion period will follow. The program
has been scheduled for the Morrison Room, instead of the SAE House, so that the concert might be included in
the program. The group, which has appeared in several weekend concerts at Davidson, consists of piano, bass, and drums.

The Boxer Trio is the second in a series of four programs to be presented in the “Blow-Up ‘68” series.
Edmond T. Weiant, language professor at Queens College, and contemporary author Guy Owen will speak at the remaining programs.

...the individuals comprising the Haverford College community.” There are no restrictions on persons in the living quarters except that each
student be responsible for “his proper conduct.” Instead of dormitories, students live in suites, each with a lounge and individual
bedrooms. There was also an absence of academic regulations, Penick noted. What he called an academic atmosphere “superior to that
of Davidson.” “People studied because they wanted to, not because they were forced to,” he said.

O&C Nears Finish

The final copy of the “Quips and Cranks” 1967-68 edition was submitted by the deadline date of Feb. 19, and
is now ready to be published, according to Kirk Reed, editor. “With the exceptions of 16 pages of spring sports
and color pictures, the whole yearbook is now at the publisher’s,” Reed said. “The last several pages will be sent
in by March 2, in time to be included with the rest of the book.”

According to Reed, this year’s edition will be different from yearbooks of the past. It will feature 100 pages of
informal pictures, have more space dedicated to IMAC sports than varsity sports, along with other innovations. The publication is the
result of an effort to combine conventional techniques with a more radical, imaginative approach. “Our 30-man staff has worked hard
and has done an excellent job,” said Reed. “It looks real good.”

The yearbook staffers have now completed all work, except collecting money owed to them by various clubs on the campus.
The yearbook is scheduled for distribution on May 18.

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
CharlotteOver $1.00 Cover Behind Conder Soda Shop of PRAM chapters across the country, the drive must be directed entirely by
the Davidson group so as to assure coordination and continuity in PRAM's final appeal to the larger contributing groups.

Five Students To Attend State Student Legislature

Five Davidson representatives will attend the North Carolina State Student Legislature (SSL) in Raleigh March 6-9. Cosponsored by the Student
Council and the Forensic Council, the delegation includes juniors Fletcher Hartsell, Pete Norton, and John Roe, sophomore Tom Wheatley, and
freshman Windy March.

“Since there is, to my knowledge, no state student government conference, the Student Legislature provides one of the few ways
student government leaders can get together to exchange views and discuss student government problems,” Hartsell said.

Vagt, Guill To Direct Interfraternity Council

The Interfraternity Council met this week to select its officers for the coming year. The IFC elected Bobby Vagt, a
junior from Naugatuck, Conn., as president, and Marshall Guill, another junior from Washington, Ga., as vice president. The position of
secretary-treasurer will not be filled until each fraternity has had an opportunity to elect a representative to the IFC for
the coming year.

Vagt, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, has served as vice president of the IFC during the past year, as
well as being chairman of the IFC Judicial Board. He was program director this year for the YMCA freshman camp
and serves as a freshman hall counselor. He is also president of Davidson’s newly-formed psychology club. A letterman for the
swimming team, Vagt is also active in youth activities, serving as an adviser to a cub scout pack in the
community and as a Sunday school teacher at the college church.

Guill is a member of Phi Delta Theta and an associate editor of the Quips and Cranks. A member of
the YMCA Cabinet, he served as business manager for this year's freshman camp. He is a student member of the
Faculty-Student Committee for Religious Programs.

Both Rowe and Hartsell attended last year’s session, and members of the 1968 delegation have already participated in preliminary meetings
in preparation for next week's legislative sessions. Provision of free oral contraceptives for recipients of funds from the North Carolina
Welfare Department and expansion of the east-west highway system in the state are expected to be among the more controversial
issues of the 1968 session. Other bills to be presented include measures to grant student teachers legal protection from liability
suits and to create a state system of halfway houses as rehabilitation centers for ex-convicts.

“Our work with the SSL this year will be important in estimating the value of Davidson's continued participation in the
sessions, and I feel that the active interest already shown by our delegation will contribute to a fair evaluation of
the program,” Hartsell said.

James Gardner, Republican gubernatorial candidate, and Smith Bagley, candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in the Fifth District, will
be guest speakers during the SSL. Modeled after North Carolina’s General Assembly, the legislature will consider bills presented by delegates
from the 30 colleges attending. Previous sessions have approved pioneering legislation, ideas from which were later included in bills passed
by the North Carolina General Assembly.

Monday—Friday Hub

A Message to Business, Commerce, and Liberal Arts Graduates...

Wouldn't you like to build your career WHERE THE MONEY IS? Well, you can, by simply investigating the many job
opportunities available to you in BANKING at the Equitable Trust Company in Baltimore.

OUR RAPID GROWTH ASSURES YOUR RAPID DEVELOPMENT

If you want to be not only “Where The Money Is,” but also WHERE THE ACTION IS in today’s business
world, then you belong in BANKING. Keen competition in banking has created the need for needle-sharp marketing and sales techniques.
Exciting innovations in bank operations call for imaginative ideas in the management of men and machines to support a rate
of growth which is outstripping other Baltimore banks.

ATTRACTIVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MA’s AND MBA's

It comes to continuing the learning process in Equitable’s scholarly (yet bank-oriented) Administrative Training Program. Excellent development curriculums are conducted
in all the various banking operations.

M. LEE STARKEY WILL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS THURSDAY — MARCH 7

Equitable — “An Equal Opportunity Employer”

SYSTEMATIC MANAGEMENT TRAINING ASSURES RAPID ADVANCEMENT

OF COURSE OUR BANK HAS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (insurance, pensions, hospitalization, and the like) WHICH ARE DESIGNED TO MAKE PEOPLE WANT
TO SPEND THEIR ENTIRE WORKING LIVES WITH US.

It'll be “out of the frying pan and into the fire” when you may be more than a little surprised
to hear what’s in store if you choose BANKING as a career. This is especially true at Equitable Trust where
we look upon people with your level of educational achievement with particular appreciation.

We'd be happy to tell all about us as well as learn something about YOU if you'll contact your school’s
Placement Department and make an appointment to see our representative on campus. Do it today!
