Extended Rushing Program Planned To Aid Freshmen Who Do Not Receive Bids

Extended rush, a new program developed last year by the Interfraternity Council to bring about certain reforms in the fraternity
system, will go into effect this semester for the first time. The new program is designed to assist rushees who
do not receive bids at the end of this week's formal rush. It gives such students a chance to participate
in some aspects of fraternity life, similar to a social affiliate.

Tuesday evening after the final rush party, all rushees went to the Morrison Room in the College Union and filled
out cards listing the six fraternities whose parties they attended in order of preference. In the event that a rushee
does not receive a bid, his preference will be read off the card and matched as closely as possible with
the preferences of the fraternities as to which students they wish to have participate in their particular extended rush programs.

Extended rushees will be able to join in fraternity social activities and may be able to eat some meals at
the houses, depending on the programs of the individual fraternities. However, they will be excluded from activities limited to the
brotherhood, such as fraternity rites and voting. Extended rushees may receive bids at any point in the extended rush period.
At the end of two months, however, if the rushee has still not received a bid, he changes fraternities if
he wants to or if the fraternity no longer wishes him to participate in their program. On the other hand,
if both the extended rushee and the fraternity are agreeable, he may stay with the same fraternity.

Rushees who receive bids at the end of this week's formal rush period but do not accept them may work
out a social affiliation plan with an agreeable fraternity. However, they will be barred from participating in the IFC’s extended
rush plan.

Report this week focuses on fraternities, their role, their development, and the controversy over them. Articles were written or researched
by Dick Anderson, Franklin Anderson, John Solinger, Rich Cowart, Bob Reid, Roger Mills, and Bill Warren. Photographs were taken by
Bob McKellar.

Ways To Amend Faults Vary In Other Colleges

Other colleges and universities have dealt with the fraternity situation in varying ways, and in some cases, the fraternities themselves
have developed unique programs. In trying to answer the criticism of anti-intellectualism, fraternities at the University of Utah introduced a
“Greek College Bowl" in which fraternities compete on questions in the humanities and social sciences before the entire student body.
The Utah system adds to rush week an intellectual tone which counter-balances the normal exclusively social atmosphere.

At Syracuse University, Omicron Kappa studied student activism and sponsored a symposium on rights and responsibilities of students. The University
of North Carolina chapter of Delta Psi invites faculty members to make brief presentations on a topic on a weekly
basis and requests that the faculty members take a side in a controversy and promote their own point of view.

Other fraternities have acted to overcome the charge that they narrow a member's range of acquaintances. At Drake University, exchange
dinners are sponsored between the houses, and the University of Arizona fraternities have a foreign student program similar to the
Richardson Scholar program at Davidson, in which the scholars eat at various houses during their year at Davidson. In order
to get communication with faculty members, the Interfraternity Council at the University of Cincinnati initiated a student-faculty softball league.

Most of the accent has been on producing a more integrated student life, with an end to the split between
academic and social life. Instead of providing only an escape from the rigors of academic pressures, fraternities have been forced
to move toward providing a freer atmosphere for intellectual inquiry than a structured college curriculum can provide. The element of
force has come through the challenge of the idea of a living-learning dormitory. This concept calls for classes, social life,
recreation, eating, and most other activities to be concentrated in the student's dormitory. Usually, the living-learning plan has called for
faculty members and students living in the same building.

The idea has been behind some of the criticism of dormitories at Davidson, which have been noted for their compartmentalization
of life, with studying taking place in Chambers and the library, sleeping in the dormitories, and social life and eating
in the Union or in fraternity houses.

Fraternities Have Rarely Enjoyed Tranquil Existence At Davidson

Rarely have fraternities had a peaceful existence at Davidson, for since the founding of Chi Phi and Kappa Alpha in
1859, fraternities have been the center of a debate that once reached riot proportions. After barely surviving the Civil War
and Reconstruction, fraternities were faced with a relocation problem when Chambers burned in 1921. As a temporary measure, Philanthropic and
Eumenean Halls were used for meetings, and boarding houses, not sponsored by the college, were maintained in town. The problem
of relocation was solved in 1928 when Jackson Court was completed. This cluster of small houses, now shared by the
mathematics department and married students, served for 30 years until the completion of Patterson Fraternity Court in 1958.

Opposition to fraternities has been voiced on several occasions. As early as 1894, a petition was circulated calling for the
abolition of the fraternities, but no action ever resulted. However, real opposition crystallized in 1960 and has never yet settled.
In that year, the faculty voted decisively to forbid freshman pledging and rush after a number of fraternity members went
inactive and petitioned the faculty to institute sophomore rush as a solution to current fraternity shortcomings. Among the cited shortcomings
were the first-week rush of freshmen and the monopoly on campus social life held by fraternities. The vote of the
faculty, which came on May 3, was promptly reversed by the trustees on the grounds that there was no established
trend toward sophomore rushing, that fraternities were apparently fulfilling student social needs, and that the fraternity chapters at Davidson opposed
any change.

Fraternities Get Praise, Barbs

Like politics and women, fraternities at Davidson have been both praised and derided. With nearly 70 percent of the students
in fraternities, the system has become the center for social activity on campus. Not only do fraternities sponsor parties and
banquets, but they also provide members with opportunities to form close friendships with their brothers. Proponents of the fraternity system
call the fellowship generated in the houses their best asset. The fraternity gives each member the chance to identify with
a relatively small group of close friends and know them well. Supporters also argue that fraternities offer members a chance
to mature and accept responsibility within the fraternity officers or hold other positions of leadership within the house.

But others do not see the system as a beneficial institution. Criticism has come from all elements of the college
community, including both fraternity members and independents, faculty and administration.This time Lingle Manor had been begun as an alternative to
fraternities, and offered membership to any student who would pay the semester fee of $10. However, the group went too
far, according to past President Sam Johnson, and allowed too much freedom of the individual by its lack of means
to compel any group action. As a result, the group soon fell apart and membership dropped from more than 50
in the beginning to eight when the organization disbanded last semester.

Despite the trustee ruling, dissension nevertheless continued, and a joint student-faculty fraternity evaluation committee was set up. Their recommendation was
essentially for the abolition of fraternities, and the issue was once more returned to a committee, this time the faculty
committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life. A minority report had recommended more moderate changes. This committee recommended that the
minority report be implemented, but the faculty overruled the report and voted, 33-32, to institute the original plan.

It was then that the fraternities organized a carefully planned riot, which included a torchlight parade around the president's house
and the house of Bob Jones, assistant director of admissions and the leader of the more radical fraternity reform group.
The advance planning of the riot was demonstrated by the notification of WSOC-TV well ahead of its occurrence.

Once more, in May 1965, the trustees overruled the faculty but gave approval for the faculty's proceeding with the moderate
reform plan, essentially the same system under which fraternities operate now. The trustees also authorized the building of one or
more eating clubhouses, but the two efforts in this direction which have been made since this authorization have both been
denied by the administration, one last spring.

Fall rush was instituted in 1965, second semester rush the following year, and extended rush, under which those not receiving
bids eat at fraternity houses for a period of time, this year. Critics charge that the system excludes nearly 30
percent of the student body by the blackballing system, by which one or two brothers can prevent a rushee from
being invited to pledge. They claim that the balling system tends to create narrow social groups which isolate members from
the rest of the college community. Critics also believe fraternities to be anti-intellectual. Fraternities, they charge, deride scholarship, labeling eager
students as ‘flies’ or ‘flits.’ But some answer that the fraternities need not be primarily an intellectual institution any more
than the faculty should sponsor beer busts. Fraternities, by their nature, are more intellectual than anti-intellectual.

However, fraternity supporters point to such programs as the "Blow Up" lectureships sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon as evidence that
fraternities are not anti-intellectual. Last year Beta Theta Pi sponsored a series of discussions by poet Stephen Spender. As for
the balling system, not all fraternity members favor its use. Some feel that chapters should extend the rule so that
several members would have to object to a rushee before he would be rejected. Others claim that few rushees are
balled by only one or two brothers. Also, supporters see the selection process as the best way to promote the
harmonious fellowship that is needed by a fraternity. Any compromise would weaken this fellowship. Opponents, though, say that most freshman
halls could easily be transformed into fraternities, and point to the homogeneity of the student body as the reason. They
also charge the fraternities with excluding the 30 percent of the students who most need what fraternities offer.

Major changes in the Davidson fraternity system were recommended last December by the Blue Sky Committee's Sub-committee on Student Life.
Under the proposal, seven of the houses would be used to feed 90 to 100 students each, with a standardized
cost of board. Freshmen would be assigned to vacancies by lot. Those who did not eat at one of the
houses would eat in the College Union, provided another union were built, and facilities of each house would be open
to anyone for lounging, meetings, or parties. The remaining five fraternity houses would be used for administrative and educational purposes.
The committee proposed that one of the five houses could be used for listening rooms, a record library, and an
art studio, another for placement facilities, another as a guest house annex, the fourth as a foreign language house, and
the last for audio-visual purposes.

According to the committee's report, deficiencies of the present system include the compartmentalization of student activities and of people into
groups and the “inadequate facilities for worthwhile use of leisure.” Bobby Lane, chairman of the sub-committee, stressed that the committee
was not “another fraternity evaluation committee,” but that its value lay in the fact that it presented an alternative and
showed what could be done with the present facilities. Referring to the proposals for the use of Patterson Court, Lane
said that the principles were good but that he was not optimistic as to their success. Lane also stated, however,
that he did not believe that the proposals were “out of reach.”

Gus Cochran, president of the Interfraternity Council, was generally favorably impressed with the report but felt that it was not
truly representative of the students as a whole. Although he felt that the report needed to be acted on, he
said that more student reaction from both upper and lower classmen was needed. Cochran agreed that fraternities tend to compartmentalize
people into groups, but felt this was good in that it broke the number of people down into “livable groups.”
He disagreed with the number of eating clubs and stated that more houses would be needed because “everyone should have
a house he could call his own.” Whether there were fraternities or eating clubs was not important to Cochran, as
long as the eating clubs were not formed around interest clubs. He suggested that one advantage of fraternities was that
they tended to be broad in their selection, while interest clubs would concentrate certain types of people into certain fraternities.
Cochran felt that the aim of the report was good, but proposed as a better solution a dual social system
of eating clubs and fraternities. He believed that this would strongly combine the best of both fraternities and of the
eating clubs.

Mike Mooty, president of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, felt that the “three deficiencies which this report identifies are not new
to the Davidson campus.” Mooty also stated that the fraternities could not be held solely responsible for the lack of
adequate facilities for non-fraternity men. He said that “the recommendations regarding the use of Patterson Court are very imaginative and
some of the uses are very needed.” But he added that he hopes that “the resolution to problems that the
Blue Sky Committee has delineated and other problems in the social structure of the college can be resolved within the
system itself.” Mooty felt that “great strides have already been made in this direction,” and made no prediction as to
what the social structure of the college would be like several years from now.
