SCHOLARSHIPS DOWN
Davidson Losing Standing Where It Really Counts?

For years, Davidson has been billed in academic circles as a prep school for graduate schools. As this year’s Davidson College Bulletin proudly points out, nearly 70 percent of the college's graduates go on to higher schools at one time or another. Significant, too, has been Davidson's enviable record in competition for graduate scholarships and fellowships. Recently, however, the number of "big name" scholarships won by Davidson's sons has taken a sharp downward turn.

In the competition for Woodrow Wilson Fellowships, for instance, Davidson still holds the lead over the rest of the Southeast's colleges. But statistics indicate that the Davidson student's probability of winning one now is decreasing.

History Majors Turn To Law
By JOHN PANCAKE
Copy Editor

“Law School” is the answer of many history majors to the question: What are you doing next year? In a normal year, and this is a normal year, according to Dr. Malcolm Lester, chairman of the History Department, about half of the senior history majors go to law school. Lester said only six to 10 of the 45 history majors in the class of ’70 plan to do graduate work in history. Other areas of graduate study for history majors include business administration, diplomacy and public affairs, and theology.

Discussing the weight given scores on the Graduate Record Examinations, as opposed to recommendations and class rank, Lester said that although the graduate schools varied, recommendations and class rank were probably more important. He pointed out that some schools, the University of Virginia being one, do not even require that applicants take the GREs.

Lester said that most Davidson graduates attending law school go to the University of Virginia, Duke University, Vanderbilt University, or the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Schools attended by students doing graduate work in history include Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Princeton, and the University of South Carolina. Lester said that history majors generally chose graduate schools in the East; he could not recall anyone applying to schools farther west than Chicago or Tulane.

Lester said that history students have won several outstanding scholarships in recent years, the most highly competitive being Marshall scholarships and a Rhodes scholarship. He said that he did not know of any changes in the admissions policies of graduate schools caused by the recent changes in the deferment policies of the Selective Service System.

SENIOR PONDERS FUTURE

In the 23 years since the program was begun, a total of 49 Wilson fellowships have been awarded to Davidson graduates. Duke University has won the most in the Southeast—127. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has accounted for 117; the University of Florida, 65; the University of the South, 64; and Washington and Lee University, 35. Davidson graduates won 7 fellowships in the 12 years from 1945 to 1957. Between 1958 and 1962, 26 were awarded to men with Davidson degrees. But in the next 5-year period (1963-1967) only 14 awards were received. This year two Davidson seniors received Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. At this year’s rate, the 5-year period ending in 1972 would yield only eight Wilsons. Duke accounted for 9 awards, Chapel Hill for 17, Sewanee for 5, Washington and Lee for 3, and Florida received 9 this year.

The Woodrow Wilson is not the only fellowship which Davidson students have had less success in winning. Though the college stands ninth in the number of Danforth Fellowships received, none of the three nominees from this year's senior class was selected. One senior was awarded a Rockefeller Brothers Fellowship, but for the second year in succession, there was no Rhodes Scholar. Davidson at present ranks fifth in the Southeast in the number of Rockefeller Brothers Fellowships received; it stands eighth in the nation among liberal arts colleges in the number of Rhodes Scholarships. Eight of the 15 Rhodes Scholarships have been awarded since 1950.

Students are generally nominated for graduate awards by the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships. This committee, chaired during the past year by Dr. Richard C. Cole, considers the applications of all students interested in the awards, and from the list of applicants, it selects a certain number of nominees. In some cases, the committee meets with the nominees to help them prepare for the interviews which they will encounter in seeking to win the award. The committee is responsible for assisting all seniors seeking graduate awards, not just those interested in the more well-known grants.

GRADUATE SCHOOLS
FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1968 PAGE THREE

Study Ahead For Linguists

The German Department leads this year in the number of senior language majors. According to Dr. Thomas O. Pinkerton of the German Department, two of the seven senior German students will be studying German in graduate school next year. Henry Wilmer has won a fellowship in German at Yale, and Pete Gaskell has been awarded a fellowship in German at Northwestern. German major Bobby Myers is going to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill next year for graduate study in anthropology, and Bryce Glothlin plans to teach German on the secondary school level next fall. Pinkerton said enthusiasm created by the junior year abroad had brought greater numbers of capable students to German studies in recent years. Pinkerton offered as proof of this the fact that Davidson graduates are now pursuing graduate studies in German at Princeton, Johns Hopkins, Tulane, Duke, MIT, Northwestern, and Yale.

Of the French majors graduating this year, only one is going to graduate school in French, according to Professor Walter Meeks of the French department. Meeks said Chuck Byrd has been awarded a National Defense Education Act fellowship to study French at Vanderbilt. Another senior French student plans to teach in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school system next year and go to graduate school later, said Meeks.

Dr. George Labban of the Classics Department said no majors would graduate in Latin, Greek, or the combined classics majors this year. Last year the department sent one student to UNC-CH for graduate study, according to Labban.

Few Chemistry, Physics Majors Entering Graduate School Now
By DAVID SWEATT
Managing Editor

Only one graduate with a chemistry major is going to graduate school next year. Tom Kirtley has been offered a research fellowship at Clemson University.

(Staff Photo by Weems) "... seventy percent going to grad school?”

About 30 Graduates Face Post-Graduate Army Duty

Based on past experience, Col. Frederick B. Outlaw estimated this week that 25 to 30 newly commissioned Davidson graduates will go on active duty soon after graduation this June. The remainder of the approximately 140 to be commissioned at graduation will be in graduate and professional schools—deferring their active duty for later years, he said. Many of the seniors have not yet received notification of deferment, according to Outlaw, and some have changed their minds after receiving their deferments.

Outlaw said 42 of the seniors got their first branch choice and a small number got their second choice. “The remainder for the most part got their selected third choice," Outlaw added. ROTC Department figures show that of the 14 branch choices, medical service, intelligence, and adjutant general were the most popular first choices of the graduating seniors. Engineering, artillery, armor, and infantry were among the least popular as first choices. Armor was the only branch not requested by anyone. “The Davidson graduate is looking for a branch which will allow him to work in his preferred field of work,” Outlaw said. Outlaw added that Davidson graduates do better in branch schools than most other ROTC officers. He said that the unit here has an outstanding record for the past four years.

Dr. John B. Gallent said that the average over the last few years has been aboutFour per year going to graduate school after majoring in chemistry here. He said last year students in chemistry went to Rutgers, the University of Illinois, and two to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In previous years, graduates in chemistry have gone to Johns Hopkins, Columbia, Ohio State, Wisconsin, and Auburn. The Davidson Chemistry Department is on the approved list of the American Chemical Society, a list which includes about 335 colleges and universities across the nation, said Gallent. Only about 90 of the approved departments are in liberal arts colleges, he said. Standards for the ACS approved list include staff load, library, labs, general quality, and success of students who go on to graduate school from the department, Gallent said.

Gallent explained that there are signs all over the nation that liberal arts colleges are producing fewer and fewer graduates in the sciences. He said that both the sciences and the humanities have claimed losses to the other in recent years, but recent studies indicate that the losses in both areas may be attributed to greatly increased attraction of economics and business opportunities. Though impossible to predict what will happen in the future, Gallent said, “The top-flight liberal arts colleges have produced in the past the baccalaureate sources for a major fraction of PhDs in natural science.”

Dr. John I. Hopkins, chairman of the Physics Department, noted a decrease in physics majors at Davidson in the last few years. Hopkins said that a drop in physics majors in recent years all across the nation may help explain the reduction in physics majors here. “Science majors may be applying to Davidson and just not coming here,” said Hopkins. He speculated that more extensive lab equipment at larger universities may offer an attraction to science majors that a liberal arts college cannot afford. Hopkins said that Davidson used to produce seven or eight physics majors per year. But that was 10 years ago. For the last few years, only one or two physics majors have come out of Davidson each year. Yet, men who have graduated in physics have done well in graduate schools, said Hopkins. Two physics majors will be in graduate schools next fall, according to Hopkins. Joe Fricbele has received a University Scholarship at Vanderbilt; the grant provides tuition and fees and carries a stipend of $2,000 per year. Steve Brown has been awarded a fellowship at Cornell University which provides $2,400 per year. The Physics Department at Cornell is generally regarded as one of the best in the nation. Included on its physics faculty is Dr. Hans Bethe, awarded the Nobel Prize in physics last fall. John Viser, also graduating in physics this year, has decided to take a position with the Ford Motor Company but may go to graduate school sometime in the future, Hopkins said. Junior Bobby King has pursued a physics course, but he is going to North Carolina State next year to study aeronautical engineering. Hopkins said several physics students have chosen the 3-2 engineering program, which allows for three years at Davidson and two years at another school.

Law Appeals To In Poli Sci, Other Areas
By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

Although several seniors have received fellowships or assistantships for graduate study in political science, most of the students in this department, and many in various other departments, plan to attend law schools next year. Information available at this time is somewhat sketchy and tentative in that many of the seniors interested in these fields have not yet made up their minds as to the school they will attend. According to Dr. W. P. Minter, political science advisor, several students among the “unusually good bunch of seniors” majoring in political science this year have received assistantship offers. Sixteen seniors in all are majoring in political science. Gus Cochran, a winner of a Woodrow Wilson Scholarship, has been offered an assistantship at the University of Indiana. Accepting assistantship offers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill were Tom Peddicord and Julian Prosser. Peddicord will do graduate work in political science and Prosser in public administration. Art Abplanalp and Sam Hines, also political science majors, will be doing graduate work in that field next year at Duke University. An economics major, Mike Powell, has accepted a scholarship at Texas in public administration.

The prospective law students come from many departments besides political science, including history, economics, and English. Minter estimated that about 24 seniors were planning to attend law school but said that information was incomplete as yet. A tentative listing of students and law schools they will attend is as follows:

Chicago—Mason Stephenson
Columbia—Tim Rothermil
Cornell—Dirk Galbraith
Florida—Bruce Weihe
Georgia—Tom Cook, David Ginn
Kentucky—Bill Graham
Stanford—Ross Cornwell
Tulane—Neil Holcomb
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill—Tom Earnhardt, Joe Beard, Westray Battle, Chet Davidson, Lindsay Davis, Bill Eaker, Rick Ramseur, Joe Bentley
Virginia—Bob Finlayson, Tom Rhodes
Yale—Toby Watt and Sam Hatcher

In general, Minter noted, the students this year did considerably better than the ones last year on the law boards, averaging about 20 points higher. Although some students have had difficulty getting into the school of their first choice, Minter commented that he had not “heard of anybody that failed to get in somewhere. The fact that we have a broad liberal arts background here,” Minter continued, “gives our students an advantage over those at a lot of other schools in general preparation and in taking the law boards because of the general nature of the questions asked.”

Pre-Meds’ Acceptance Rate 90%
Davidson pre-med graduates have been very successful this year in their applications to medical schools, according to Dr. W. O. Puckett, pre-med adviser. About 45 of the 49 pre-med seniors this year have been accepted at medical schools. Puckett rated this 90 percent success factor “pretty daggone high.” Last year Davidson led the Southeast in the percentage of graduates accepted at medical schools. This included schools such as Duke which have their own medical schools. Rice was the national leader in successful pre-meds last year.

Under the new curriculum, no major in classics will be offered; only a Latin major and Greek major will be possible. Labban reasoned that the classics major as offered through this year left the graduate with only minimal preparation in one of the two languages.

Seniors: Disdain Jobs
Daily, recruiters from different companies come to Davidson, hoping to find men looking for employment in business. But most seniors won't accept their offers. Seventy percent of the 240 students graduating from Davidson this year will go on to graduate school. Many others plan on some time in the army. Dr. William T. Hight, director of counseling, is administering a series of placement tests. Forty-four students have signed up for placement; another 21 students have taken five days of personality preference tests. “In placement, we're typically talking about a job five years away,” said Hight. The placement program was not designed to find immediate jobs but rather to find the right careers for the students. Perhaps idealistically, the typical Davidson senior expects to be earning between $20,000 and $25,000 ten years from now. Davidson majors include 45 in history, 38 in economics, 27 in English, 23 in psychology, and 40 in pre-med in this year’s senior class.