Page Four

Life In A Small-Time Conference
(Second in A Series)
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

A few days ago a Southern Conference sports writer made the statement that “this conference is on its last legs as a major collegiate league. All that is left for the conference is Davidson College basketball.” A brash and deceptive statement? Not at all, after a brief look at certain statistics.

With the departure of West Virginia and Virginia Tech from the conference, the last shred of football prestige was stripped from an already weak conference. Not since VPI's brief period of fame in 1966 has a Southern team been mentioned in the nation’s Top Ten; nor has a conference team played in a major bowl game. This distinction is one that very few conferences that claim to be “major collegiate leagues” have. Of course, this year the conference champion will win an automatic bid to a minor bowl game, the Tangerine Bowl in Orlando, Fla. Unfortunately, the probable opponent will be a team from the Mid-American Conference, once considered weaker than the Southern, but now boasting some of the nation’s most powerful teams. For instance, the leading candidate for the Southern title, Richmond, was whipped by a Mid-American so-so, Toledo, while another possible winner, William and Mary, fell to Mid-American power Ohio, 42-0.

To add injury to insult, the Southern teams have won just four games outside of the conference this year while rolling up a total of 19 losses. The four wins, incidentally, came over the “potent” teams from Lehigh, Connecticut, Presbyterian, and Parsons. The records of poor showing by conference teams outside of the conference go on and on, from departures that every team (except for Davidson's basketball team) has made from various NCAA tournaments in recent years to the combined record of the conference schools in all sports, giving the conference wins in only 30 percent of its games.

The question now is this: just where does Davidson presently fit into this weak conference sports program? To be sure, Davidson has added very little to the conference in most sports. “Let’s face the facts,” one Charlotte sports writer said, “Davidson has one helluva basketball team that can play with any major school. Some of the lesser sports can hold their own fairly well, but in certain sports your college is just not—and probably never will be—of major college caliber.”

“Probably the biggest advantage to the conference system, at least as far as I’m concerned, is the scheduling aspect,” said tennis and soccer coach Harry Fogleman. “Otherwise, in my sports it doesn’t mean that much.” Considering that the soccer team plays a grand total of three SC teams in the regular season and the tennis team faces no more than seven in about 25 matches, Fogleman’s point of view is understandable. In most of the other sports in which Davidson fields a team, it is the same; other than scheduling and a few minor points, the Southern Conference has nothing to offer the sports program.

Wildkitten Sikes Follows Tracks Of Wildcat Kelly
By STEVE WILLIAMS
Sports Writer

Most Davidson coaches agree that finding a good end of the same caliber as Wildcat Mike Kelly is not an easy task. Yet it appears that freshman Coach Gene McEver has another one in the growing stages. Greg Sikes, a freshman from Statesboro, Ga., has begun to prove his ability after three games at split end. During this time he has hauled in 14 passes for a total of 286 yards.

“Greg was off a little at the Richmond game last week,” McEver said. He only caught four passes for around 76 yards, but he totaled more than 100 yards during each of the first two freshman games this season. Davidson lost to Richmond 16-6.

Sikes is a quarterback’s dream. Both of the freshman quarterbacks, Rick Kemmerlin and Rick Pipan, find him an easy target. Both commented that his height was a great advantage. Sikes is 6-4 and weighs 185 pounds. Kemmerlin said, “Greg takes a long stride and he is very deceptive with his speed. He just seems to have a natural instinct for finding the ball once it is thrown.” Pipan went on to add that “he probably has the greatest hands on the team. All you have to do is put the ball in his area and he will come up with it.”

In addition to his hands, he probably has one of the most impressive records compiled by a high school athlete. Sikes was a four-sport letterman at Statesboro High School, pulling in all-conference honors in each one. He lettered for two years in both baseball and track and four years in football and basketball. Sikes was also selected to the Georgia All-State squads in football and basketball. Topping his high school career off, he was given honorable mention as a high school All-American in both football and basketball. He went on to participate in the Georgia all-star basketball game. He was also selected to play in the all-star football game.

Coach McEver noted that “Greg isn’t as fast as we would like him to be and he needs to build up his shoulders, but we have high hopes that he will be another Mike Kelly.” Sikes and the freshmen meet the Citadel freshmen this afternoon at 2 p.m. at Richardson Field. The team will be running at full strength, with the exception of offensive tackle Greg Johnson, who sustained a fractured forearm in practice two weeks ago. Johnson is out for the remainder of the season.

By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

The times keep getting better as the Davidson cross country team points to the Southern Conference championships, which come up in less than two weeks. Despite their best performances of the year, however, the harriers still saw their record drop to 4-6 in a five-way meet with Appalachian, High Point, Pembroke, and Wake Forest on the Davidson course Monday. The Wildcats beat only Wake Forest.

Leading the way for the Wildcats was junior Stagg Newman with a five-mile time of 28:55. His time, good for ninth place overall, represented the fastest time for a Davidson runner in two years. Coach Heath Whittle called Newman’s performance “a truly outstanding job.” Also singled out was sophomore Reeves Louthan who did a “magnificent job” according to Whittle.

The team’s consistent improvement is shown in their victory over Wake Forest in Monday’s meet. Earlier in the season, Wake had defeated the Wildcats at the Deacon home course. The state meet will be held Monday in Raleigh where Whittle and the Wildcats are aiming for a sixth or seventh place finish out of 16 schools. He hopes the harriers will hit their peak in the conference meet where they will meet some of their stiffest competition of the year. The meet is scheduled for Nov. 11 in Greenville, N.C. Leading the team in these two big meets will be Newman, senior captain Randy Phillips, freshman Chris Sikes, and Louthan.

Perhaps the biggest case against the conference came last year when Lefty Dreisell found the Wildcat basketball team forced by conference rules to play a preposterous—as far as Lefty was concerned—14-game conference schedule. After much haggling and arguing,It was finally compromised that each conference team must play 10 other Southern teams. “That really wasn't too bad with West Virginia in the conference, because they were a good team that would test us,” Dreisell said. “But when West Virginia left...” The quote was left unfinished, but the insinuation was there. By playing 10 games with such weak teams as the Southern Conference has, the Davidson basketball team is limited in its chance to play onference there.” “I don't know what we're doing for the conference,” said one Davidson coach, “but it's not doing much for us.” Davidson is doing a lot for the conference, according to conference official Dallas Shirley. “Every school means a lot to us in the conference. Davidson is no exception. Your program is as important to the conference as anyone else’s. The Davidson basketball team is always a conference power.” For some reason, conference talk always seems to come back to Davidson's basketball team. “It’s only natural that the conference praises the Davidson basketball team,” said Dick Hammerstrom of the Charlotte News. “It's really all that the Southern Conference has left in the way of prestige. And what is a conference if it doesn't have a big-name team?” Good question. Another good one is this: what good is a big-name team that does have to play in a small-time conference? (Next week: The Future)

Renowned national powers. “Also, some of the conference schools naturally don't draw at the gate like big-name teams do,” Dreisell said. “We play them in the Johnston gym, and we can't make any money.”

SC PLAYER OF THE WEEK

Junior split end Mike Kelly ran Davidson’s streak in Southern Conference offensive player of the week honors to three straight this week. Kelly was commended by the conference press corps for his performance against Furman last Saturday, in which he caught 10 passes (a school record), including two touchdowns. He ranks first in the conference in pass receiving, with 38 catches, and scoring, with 36 points.

Davidson Meets Citadel Saturday

The Citadel brings a pro-set offense and an upset defense to Charlotte tomorrow for a Southern Conference meeting with Davidson at Memorial Stadium. The offense features the running power of Jim McMillan, who has carried 101 times this season for 425 yards. The defense, however, is in poor shape after last week's 39-0 loss to Chattanooga. All-American linebacker John Small suffered a concussion in the contest and is out for the season with a pinched nerve and bruised spine. Small's departure brings added misery to the squad, which had already lost its other starting linebacker Jackie Zorn to a neck injury. Citadel Coach Red Parker is faced with replacing the tough pair from an inexperienced group. The losses will greatly hamper the defensive power, as Small and Zorn were rated as the toughest linebacking duo in the South. Quarterback Tony Passander has 42 completions in six games, 13 each to end Bob Griest and flanker Gene Hightower, but the Bulldogs rely heavily on the running game. An interesting study of The Citadel's effectiveness in each game is a quarter-by-quarter breakdown of scoring. The Cadets appear to be a fourth-quarter team, having outscored their opponents in that quarter, 36-0. However, the second quarter has been weak, with the opponents leading, 53-17. The Citadel stands 2-1 in the conference and 3-3 overall. The team has defeated Lehigh, Furman, and VMI, while falling to Army, Richmond, and Chattanooga. In the series with the Cadets, Davidson leads 20-18-4. Game time is 2 p.m. at the Charlotte Memorial Stadium.

Hannen Returns To Halfback Spot

George Hannen has become a movable fixture on the Wildcat football team this season. After starting the season and playing for four games at halfback, he moved to his former Davidson position at end. The move pushed sophomore sprinter Rick Lyon into the ‘Cat backfield. Lyon, however, reinjured his leg in the Furman game, and is out of the Davidson line-up again, so Hannen has been moved back to the halfback spot by Coach Homer Smith. Hannen's return to the backfield makes room at the end spot for sophomore Rusty Lawrence, the second leading ‘Cat receiver.

A Way To Live

After reading Vince Lombardi’s book on the Green Bay Packers and watching the summer Olympics on television, Lefty believes he has found the way for this year’s Wildcat basketball team to win the national championship. It’s all in conditioning. Although we have been practicing for only two weeks, it seems like a month. Lefty told us that we will rue the day the American Broadcasting Company decided to carry the Olympics live. Between watching the Kenyan runners sprint the last lap after running six miles and seeing swimmers like Don Schollander and Mark Spitz splash at full speed for 400 meters, Lefty is convinced we can give the same kind of effort. I know that writing about conditioning is almost as interesting as most of our chapel speakers, and needless to say both tend to put me asleep. But the next three weeks could be a gruesome experience for the Davidson team. Lefty’s final words, “I’m going to show you just how out of shape you all are,” could be the end of some of us. The conditioning might not be as bad as most of us think. With 16 players on the team right now, it’s not as hard to hide as it has been in the past. Still, this scheme has its drawbacks due to the closed-circuit TV that Lefty runs during most of the practices. We may be able to rest without the coaches knowing it but that “big brother” machine could get us in the end. Practices now begin with a variety of medicine ball exercises followed by calisthenics and agility drills. After this, we usually have several defensive drills and some spot shooting. Then, teams are divided up with the black shirts (this year’s skins) working against the red shirts. After various other drills, Lefty lets most of us go. Those who are lucky enough to be chosen to stay are players that Lefty feels are unduly out of shape and need more work. It’s usually the same two or three players and they run suicide drills, skip rope, do push-ups, and various other healthful activities. A suicide drill consists of sprinting to quarter-court and back, half-court and back, three-quarters court and back, and full court and back. These players have been dubbed the “sub-par boys” or the “kamikaze squad” for apparent reasons. Lefty calls them his “extracurricular gang.” Speaking of conditioning, Lefty received a letter from Rodney Knowles, one of last year’s “sub-par boys” now with the Phoenix Suns. In talking about the rigors of professional basketball, Rodney came out with a classic statement, “You have to love it.” Lefty commented that it was too bad Rodney didn’t know that four years ago. Knowles has two points in two games so far while Dick Snyder, another former Wildcat player now with the Suns, had 20 and 26 points in his first two games. Still, despite all the emphasis on conditioning Lefty has promised us several Saturdays off if we work hard in practice and look good. I sure hope we do well because I believe some of us will need the extra day to recuperate. I know I will.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Let us freshen your impression
Bring us your suits and shirts
Jackson Cleaners
Depot St.

IS HERE!
Just beyond The Coffee Cup