Page Six

“Over The River And Through The Woods For A Chance At A Cake”
October 4, 1968

Former ‘Cats Find Place Among Pros
By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

Two National Basketball Association starters, two promising rookies, and two coaches point to the quality of the athletes who have gone into the world of sports from Davidson College. Wildcat basketball is the number one sport on campus and has produced three pro players. Fred Hetzel, Davidson’s first All-American, was drafted by the San Francisco Warriors in 1965. He was a surprise member of the Warriors' expansion list last winter after starting at forward and averaging over 19 points a game. Hetzel is counted on as the number one man for the new Milwaukee Bucks team, coached by Larry Costello.

Joining Hetzel as a starter in the NBA is the second Wildcat All-American, Dick Snyder. A starter for the St. Louis Hawks last winter, Snyder averaged 18.6 points per game. Snyder is now a member of the expansion Phoenix Suns where he is joined by Rod Knowles, captain of last year’s Wildcat team. Knowles won All-Southern Conference honors his sophomore year, second team honors his junior year, and honorable mention last year.

Showing great promise as a rookie kicker for the Green Bay Packers was John Giles. He survived all three cuts at the Packer training camp but was called up for six months of active duty with the naval reserve. On the sidelines this year is Steve Heckard, former receiver for the Los Angeles Rams and last year with the New Orleans Saints. This fall Heckard is serving as an assistant coach with Army, gaining experience under Coach Tom Cahill while fulfilling his military obligation.

By A. W. TURNER JR.
Sports Writer

One of Davidson's all-time greats in football is back on campus, but in a different role. Russell E. Walls, the newest addition to the Davidson Psychology Department, was a two-way gridder here from 1962 to 1964. As a lineman on both the defensive and offensive units, Walls started in all three seasons and served as a co-captain his senior year. Although relatively small for his line position at 6-1, 195 pounds, he never missed a game throughout his Davidson career.

Walls was at his best on defense. As a champion high school wrestler, he gained the ability to move laterally at an exceptional speed, and he still remembers defensive coach Thomas Stevens saying, “lateral movement is the most important skill of a defensive player.” Stevens is now swimming and baseball coach. “I continued wrestling at Davidson because I felt it helped me in football,” Walls said.

For his outstanding work at Davidson, Walls was twice selected to the Southern Conference all-academic team, and received both the George M. King Award, given to the football player who stars both on the gridiron and in the classroom, and the LaFar Award, presented to the finest Davidson defender. Walls recalls the highlight of his career when he received the Earl Blake Award. This honor, bestowed on one gridder in each NCAA district, is awarded on the basis of outstanding football skill, campus leadership, and academic excellence. He is the only recipient from Davidson.

SPORTS DESK
By BOB DUNHAM

Gridiron Groans

When the Davidson football schedule for 1968 was announced last spring, a pronounced groan could be heard rising from the student body. The first game was to be against Bucknell. Nobody knew anything about Bucknell, except that we toppled them adequately in basketball, but no one figured that game as being much to worry about. Furman was still on the schedule to virtually assure at least one win. Connecticut really posed no outstanding threat. Nor did Wofford. Even Richmond, The Citadel, and VMI loomed as possible wins, so it looked like a winning season was a good possibility, especially with the sophomores coming of age. That wasn’t the problem.

What puzzled most of the students (and everyone else as far as that was concerned), was that Davidson took two teams from its basketball schedule and put them on its football schedule. The question which echoed from Cornelius to Falls Church was “Why Virginia and Vandy?”

Now that the Bucknell holocaust and loss at the battle of Richmond are in the past, the question lingers on. There were numerous reasons for the Bucknell defeat... call them bad breaks at crucial moments or call them mistakes... they are to be expected at the outset of the season. But at Richmond, no one is really sure what happened. The Wildcats played a fine ball game, actually dominating play and intimidating the previously explosive Richmond offense. Davidson did everything it should have done, except win.

Such occurrences do not serve to brighten the hopes for the encounter with the other Southern Gentlemen tomorrow in Charlottesville, and the prospects for the final game against the Commodores from Vanderbilt are anything but bright. Not even Purdue could help the situation. Although they had a shot at leveling the Cavalier spirit at the initiation of UVa’s new season, not even the 44-13 trouncing that the Boilermakers gave them dampened the spirit which has become a part of Cavalier football this year. This was evident last weekend, when they took out their Purdue-earned revenge on the Keydets of VMI, 47-0.

Now the Davidson camp is beginning to think that it might have bitten off more than it can chew, especially since the Cavaliers have announced intentions of enjoying their homecoming. And tomorrow, the 25,000 screaming Virginians that are expected to fill Scott Stadium to capacity won’t make it any easier. Kelly and Slade will be there, and Hannen will be back in fourth gear and running strong. The defense is aware of Virginia’s size and is anxious to prove its worth. Everyone on the team side of the problem says the team is as ready as it can be. But is that ready enough?

If Davidson survives the Virginia whipping post, then it will have nearly two months to sit back and contemplate the bigger boys from the Southeastern Conference. What about Vanderbilt? It will be tough, but for the present let’s not think beyond Charlottesville and tomorrow afternoon. We'll cross the Vanderbilt bridge when we get to it. The only problem with Davidson football is that it spends all of its time crossing those big bridges, and it never seems to get anywhere.

(Staff Photos by Weems)
WITH WINGS OF AN EAGLE
Chris Sikes wins cake race with ease.Davidson student ever to have won the award. The honor carried with it a $2,500 scholarship for medical school, but Walls rejected the offer and enrolled at the University of North Carolina to do post-graduate work in psychology. The Wildcat star did not depart without further honor, either. He was contacted by letter by the Minnesota Vikings and another minor professional football team. He did not respond to either letter, however, still intent on his graduate studies. Stevens calls Walls “one of the best football players I have ever coached. He was a coach's dream. He was a fine competitor, as tough as a defensive player could be, and yet he was a real nice guy off the field.”

GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

WANTED BY THE FOX DRIVE-IN
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

A COMBO (or Combos) TO PLAY IN THE RED FOX LOUNGE located inside the Fox Drive-In Theater on Friday and Saturday from 8:00 p.m. until 12:00 midnight and on Sunday from 3:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m. For further information call Mr. W. F. Lemmond at 596-0115 or write him at Box 26096, Charlotte, N. C.

Flickerball:
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

IMAC flickerball began what should be a very exciting season this week with a full schedule of games. The league has several teams of nearly equal strength, and a close finish like that of last season should be the result. The KA's struggled their way to the championship last year, but probably will not repeat. KA was hurt severely by graduation losses, and the only returning starters are Nelson Abell in the line and Romey Fisher at tailback.

If any team can be picked as a favorite for the championship, it is the Phi Delts. The strength and experience of a large group of returnees from last year and some outstanding sophomores give the Delts the edge. The Delts will be given a close battle for the championship by the Kappa Sigs. The Sigs start a strong core of upperclassmen, and the experience could be an advantage. The Phi Gamms have had strong teams in years past, and this season will probably prove no exception even though the Gamms will rely heavily on sophomores. Returning starters for the Gamms are Bob Apgar, Wilbur Davis, Gary Deanhardt, and Mike Bumgardner.

Another team with a chance at the championship is Sigma Chi. The Machis feature an experienced team led by Pete Norton, Jerry Kroll, Fox DeMoisey, and Jim Long. Promising sophomores include Rick Weddle, John Saunders, Herb Clegg, and Doug Haynes. The Sigma Nus do not have the overall strength to win the championship, but will be able to beat any team in the league on a given day. The Nus are a predominantly upperclass team, and the experience should be a big advantage. Bruce Weidner, Toby Westmoreland, Steve Hayes, John Lambert, George Armstrong, and Tom Skinner will be the outstanding players for Sigma Nu.

The SAEs have a team much like the Sigma Nus in that they will beat some of the stronger teams in the league but will not win the championship. Charles Brockwell is an excellent performer at tailback, but he will have largely inexperienced receivers. The Betas should finish somewhere in the lower half of the league. Mack Reavis, John Baker, Bud Couser, and Ken Crews are fine players, but probably will not be able to pull the team out of the second division.

The ATOs are in the same situation as the KAs. They lost several key players by graduation and will have to rely on sophomores. Starters from last season are Jim Cooley and Todd Hutton. The outstanding sophomore prospects are Brad Danielson and Mark Baker. The Pikas are a very young team this year, almost wholly sophomores and juniors. Inexperienced players must come through if they are to improve on their record of last season. The Sig Eps have a chance to rise higher in the standings if sophomores come through. Craig Garner and Gary Sigmon will start in the backfield. Bill Youkey is a promising sophomore. The Pi Kapps will probably not fare very well due to the overall strength of the league, but they may pull a few upsets. Returning starters include Ben Martin, Jim Smoak, and Tom Graves. The Independents remain an unknown quantity until the season starts. Their success will depend on their organization.

Giant Poster
any photo 2 ft. x 3 ft. only $1.95 (4.98 value)

Send any black & white or color photo (no negatives) and the name "Swingline" cutout from any Swingline package (or reasonable facsimile) to: POSTER-MART, P.O. Box 168, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose $1.95 cash, check, or money order (no CODs). Add sales tax where applicable. Poster rolled and mailed (postpaid) in sturdy tube. Original material returned undamaged. Satisfaction Guaranteed.

Get a Swingline Tot Stapler 98¢ (including 1000 staples)

Larger size CUB Desk Stapler only $1.69
Unconditionally guaranteed. At any stationery, variety, or book store.

SWINGLINE INC.
LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y. 11101

Half-price to college students and faculty: the newspaper that newspaper people read.

At last count, we had more than 8,800 newspaper editors on our list of subscribers to The Christian Science Monitor. Editors all over the world. There is a reason why the pros read the Monitor — they consider it one of the world's most respected dailies. Unlike local papers, the Monitor focuses exclusively on world news — the important news. The Monitor selects the news it considers most significant and reports it, analyzes it — in depth. The Monitor is for those who want to know all that is really important in the world.

If this is the kind of paper you would like to be reading, we will send it to you right away at half the regular price of $24.00 a year. Just fill out the coupon below.

Find out why so many professional newsmen themselves read the Monitor — and why they invariably name it as one of the five best papers in the world.

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR
I am enclosing $___ (U.S. funds) for the period checked.
[] 1 year $12 [] 9 months $9 [] 6 months $6

Name
Street
City
State
Zip
College student [] Faculty member []
Year of graduation

The Christian Science Monitor
1 Norway Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115

Please enter a Monitor subscription for the name below.