HOMECOMING QUEEN CANDIDATES (See Page Six)

LVI

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1968

Reopen Library

Columbus Day Parade Planned

Why have a Columbus Day Parade at Davidson? Because it’s Columbus Day, silly rabbit.

The morning of Homecoming weekend will feature a motorcade-parade forming at 10:30 a.m. in front of Lingle Manor and proceeding down Main Street and out Concord Road. Junior Calvin Murphy will be serving as the Columbus figure to lead the parade. He will be joined by a motorcyclist, two honky-tonk marchers, and anyone who wishes to join the celebration.

Bruce Wilson, originator of the parade idea, said students and other members of the college community are invited to join the parade as marchers or in their cars. “We want to reaffirm the bases of American life and get back to the roots of the American tradition,” Wilson explained. He added, “We want to show everyone that young people still have great faith in the ideals which have made the country great.”

Davidson's Mayor F. L. Jackson has granted a permit for the parade. Wilson described the mayor's reception of the idea as “jovial to say the least.” According to Wilson, Jackson was “concerned that this not become a riot and that we not stop at the barbershop.”

Wilson said the motorcade-parade is to protest accusations that the man who sailed the ocean blue in fourteen hundred and ninety-two was “a dirty old man.” He also said he wants to “quash the vicious rumors that the Norsemen found America first.” In further support of his idea, Wilson noted that celebration was needed “ ‘cause it's something that comes but once a year.” 

“We have also invited the three major presidential candidates,” Wilson said, “but have not yet received any answers.”

Norton Opens Shop

Hood Norton, owner of the last segregated barbershop in Davidson, announced Monday that his shop is now open to people of all races. “I told Mayor Jackson that I would cut the hair of anybody who comes into my shop,” Norton said. Norton said he has had no Negro customers yet, however.

Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, chairman of the Mayor's Community Relations Committee, announced to the committee Monday night that the barbershop integration came about voluntarily and without pressure from the committee. “Mr. Norton and the Mayor have been talking about this for some time,” Rhodes said. “We're pleased that he finally decided on his own to open his shop to the entire public.”

It was reported last spring that if Ralph Johnson integrated his barbershop, Norton would follow suit. Rhodes discounted this assumption, saying that Norton’s decision was his own and was not a direct result of Johnson's integrating.

Board Alters Church Rule; College Exceeds Challenge

The trustees heard today that the college's Ford Challenge Campaign exceeded its $5.5 million goal by more than $1 million and voted to lessen the so-called Presbyterian restriction on the Davidson presidency.

An audited report on the challenge campaign, which collected its final pledges over the summer, shows $6,584,429 in gifts to Davidson since the campaign began July 1, 1965, qualifying the college for $2.2 million in matching funds from the Ford Foundation.

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., who announced the totals, praised President D. Grier Martin and Robert J. Sailstad, former director of public relations and development, as well as some 1,000 alumni friends, for their roles in the campaign.

The trustees’ vote, which will permit non-Presbyterians to be elected to the college presidency, deleted from the qualifications of persons eligible to be president of the college this sentence: “No person shall be eligible for election as President of the College unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church and he shall not be eligible for inauguration unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church in the United States.”

In its place, following a statement about the need for “Christian faith and commitment,” the trustees inserted: “Such faith and commitment will be appropriately expressed by his affiliation with the Presbyterian Church in the United States and his active participation in the life of the college,” so that a non-Presbyterian could be elected if he agreed to later become a Presbyterian.

Most of the funds raised in the Ford drive have been used to strengthen Davidson's educational program, to raise faculty salaries, and to increase Davidson's endowment to almost $18 million in book value. A portion of the funds went to renovate Chambers Building and to make other plant improvements.

SUPPORT VOLUNTARY ROTC

Students picket at Tuesday drill.

WEATHER FORECAST

Weather Bureau Forecast for this weekend: Variable cloudiness with mild temperatures through Sunday. Probability of rain on Saturday 10 percent. Low tonight about 58. High Saturday about 76; and low Saturday night about 58. High Sunday 76.

NUMBER THREE

Trustees Vote Code’s Approval, Site Discussion

Board Sets Code Review, Freshman Alcohol Course

SPENCER INSTALLED

Walter L. Lingle Jr. administers the questions.

The Board of Trustees adopted the Code of Responsibility today, accepting by a voice vote all provisions of the code by a substantial majority. All but one of the provisions—that allowing open dorms—go into effect starting today, Trustee President Walter L. Lingle said. Students can now drink on campus, he said, but only within the limits of state law.

The code was accepted by the trustees “with the feeling that it is very right to put a much larger responsibility on the students.”

Spencer Proposes Five Commissions

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Managing Editor

“I come to Davidson not as its chief defender but as its chief critic,” newly-installed President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. told trustees, faculty, and students this morning as he announced the establishment of five commissions to investigate “certain unanswered questions.”

The idea of the five commissions, each including three trustees, three students, three faculty members, and a staff member, was greeted with applause by the almost capacity audience. Along with the advisory commissions would work “an outside, authoritative agency,” which “will be asked to help develop an overall design” for the college.

The five commissions are:

— Commission on Co-education. “Let us once and for all take it out of the realm of vague speculation and get the facts necessary for a decision as to its desirability and feasibility,” said Spencer.

— Commission on Social Patterns. “How can the college best fulfill its responsibility to offer constructive social outlets and opportunities on an equal basis to all students?”

Student Demonstrators Aim Protest At ROTC

By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

A group of demonstrators demanding voluntary ROTC picketed near the drill field Tuesday afternoon. “This demonstration was the first part of a many-stepped program to bring voluntary ROTC to Davidson,” said senior Sam Johnson, one of the organizers.

Although freshmen this year can get parental permission to avoid participation in ROTC, the protesters said they felt the program is not truly voluntary for the student himself. Signs reading “End Compulsory ROTC” and “Davidson Is No Place For Tyranny” appeared.

According to senior Bob Grady, a participant in the protest, “We felt that the demonstration was successful, judging from the reaction of many students.” The first group of freshmen who passed the demonstrators clapped.

Grady, who stressed the picketing was “non-disruptive,” said the group of demonstrators doubled from 12 to about 25 as the students left drill.

“One of the ways in which we can demonstrate that we mean what we say about non-discrimination is to open the doors of opportunity without discrimination to persons of other races at the faculty, staff, and office-clerical levels. This I intend to do as soon as we can.” —Dr. Spencerits students? “What is the place of fraternities in such a program (and a genuinely critical study cannot begin with the automatic assumption that they must have a place),” Spencer said.

— Commission on Church Relationship. “Last year's yearbook carried a faded-out picture of the college church. If the church relationship meant nothing more than parietal rules and required religious services, I think the analysis is accurate. But I am convinced that this is a misreading of the essence of Christian higher education.”

— Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities. Southern colleges “have been incredibly myopic in viewing the specific needs of a region plagued for a century by problems of racial discrimination, economic deprivation, and cultural malnutrition.”

— Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. “We cannot bypass an area about which there is so much honest disagreement and which affects not only the educational program but also such (See SPENCER, Page 6) principles for their conduct on students in all respects,” Lingle said.

In other business today, the board outlined possible changes in the college's endowment investment policies, reopened discussion on the site of the new library, and took steps to establish the five study commissions recommended today by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Current trustee bylaws provide that no endowment capital be used for investment purposes, Lingle said. Therefore, the college has been restricted in the common stock field to buying only those stocks with a high dividend rate in order to secure operating capital. These do not normally appreciate considerably, he explained. Under the proposed amendment, the trustees’ Finance Committee could recommend specific use of investment capital for operating purposes. Therefore, the college would not need to buy high-dividend stocks in order to have operating capital, he said.

An earlier trustee decision to put the Edward H. Little Library on the Lingle Manor site was rescinded. Spencer announced that although the college was within $110,000 of meeting the $1.5 million challenge figure necessary to get $500,000 from Little, “It is now anticipated that it will cost more than $2 million, due to inflation and an increase in the building’s size.” He also said the excess funds raised in the recent Ford Challenge campaign would now be applied toward the library challenge.

The method of selecting faculty and student representatives for the five commissions announced today will be left to Spencer, Lingle said. In adopting the code, the trustees also voted to require all freshmen to take a course dealing with alcohol, drugs, and mental health. The course was recommended by Spencer and will be administered by the Office of the Dean of Students, Lingle said. The trustees also provided for review of the code at their May 1969 and May 1970 meetings.

Burts Lists New Rules On Drink

Students may now drink on campus, since the Code of Responsibility is now in effect, according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. However, he warned that all provisions of state law would apply to the drinking, including:

— No possession or consumption of beverages at athletic events.
— No possession or consumption of beer or wine by students or their dates who are not 18 years old.
— No possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages of more than 14 percent alcohol by students or dates under 21.

Drinking in dormitories and at fraternity houses is permitted, but students may not drink at dances or bonfires on campus tonight. At the Union, all drinking is limited to the snack bar area, and alcoholic beverages elsewhere in the Union must be concealed. Girls would not be allowed in the dorms until the Residence Hall Association is functioning. However, RHA president Peter Hobbie warned that so far only Cannon Dorm had any students who had filed for the Residence Hall Council, and that no dorm could entertain women until it had elected such representatives. Filing deadline for the RHC is Wednesday.

By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

“This town used to be called Davidson College, back during the 1800s,” the Negro man said and smiled. “The college was the only place people could work and it ran the town. Then new manufacturing came in here. Now people, Negro people in Davidson, can get other jobs in town, maybe make $80-90 a week. The college doesn’t have that power anymore. Now we don’t want your old clothes, the charity you give us. Used to be the professors would give their old suits and things to the janitors. But we don’t want this. We want money, we want the pay we get, we want an honest wage.”

The speaker has lived in Davidson and worked for the college for a long time. He is a Negro, a resident of The Other Davidson. He was thoughtful as he spoke of things that have changed in Davidson. “When I first came to work here, the college’s policy was, pay the Negro only enough so that he'll come back Monday on his knees begging. When David Grier Martin came here he raised pay a little, said men would do a better job if you paid them more. When I first came here, we had to call all the students sir. I would catch the very devil from my boss if a student told him I didn’t call him sir. I couldn't go in the Union. I couldn’t go into the chapel. Now that’s all changed.”

There was animation and a strange sort of resignation in his voice as he told how several years ago he had been working with a young man who had five children and was earning $38 a week as a janitor at the college. The man got a second job at a nearby hospital. He needed both full-time jobs to support his family. “The college found out about it and they called down to the hospital and told them to fire him. They did. The college didn’t want the Negro man to have two jobs. That meant he was less under their control.” He was quiet but a little more excited as he continued. He smiled his same resigned smile and went on. “One time after I had been working here a few years I applied for a job with a bank in Charlotte. They said could they call my boss out here, I said sure. They called... and he talked to the man at the bank and told him, look here, you’re an alumnus of Davidson, don’t hire our people away from us. And I didn’t get the job. Before General Time and these other places came in here and there was just one or two other places a man could work here, the college would get together with them and decide on what they were going to pay the Negroes. If a man quit his job here, or if he tried to get a job someplace else, the college would call and tell the other place not to hire him, and they wouldn’t. If you got in bad with the college, you couldn't get a job here anywhere.”

Now college employees get a minimum wage of $1.60, or above, an hour or $3328 a year. But as recently as 1964 employees received only 98 cents an hour, with no overtime benefits. “All that time, they were Christians and were going to church. And I can see the steeple on that church from my house.” And he gestured toward the College Church and beyond it, toward The Other Davidson.