LETTERS TO THE EDITOR / Hamil Raps Editorial And Comes The Davidsontan

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson N. C, 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1968

Re The Board: Defense...

It's not often that we come to the defense of the Board of Trustees for not doing something, but in
one rather touchy matter that came up last week, we think they did the right thing. The delay on the
CRAP decision was understandably not popular with a lot of students and faculty members. The report and the new philosophy
and rule changes it carries with it were a long time in coming, and some feel it shouldn't have to
wait any longer. They forget, however, that it took a joint student-faculty committee many weeks to come up with acceptable
proposals. They forget that the faculty spent two meetings thrashing it out. And they forget that the final report was
not presented to the trustees until they reached campus. Remember, too, that some of the changes asked for are pretty
drastic. They were unusual enough to get unusually lengthy deliberation in the faculty, and the trustees should get equal time.

As for some of the other trustee decisions, we are just as unhappy as the next person. The so-called ROTC
“compromise” is really no compromise at all. What the faculty and board have fallen back on is a former policy
that never did take the essence out of compulsory ROTC. And with or without the new exemption, ROTC will remain
required in both principle and practice. Ducking the student-faculty resolution warrants no praise either. Human rights aren't a matter of
local jurisdiction, and the board would hardly be “butting in” by supporting a call for an end to segregation.

But we'll back the board on its decision to mull over the CRAP Report a bit. It'll come up again
shortly when the board holds its special meeting, and, as Student Body President Joe Murphy put it, we won’t be
disappointed in what the trustees didn’t do last week if they approve the changes next time. For something like the
CRAP changes, we are willing to wait—for a few weeks.

...And Praise

Last week’s trustee meeting included one innovation that we'd like to see become a regular item on the board’s agenda.
The meet-the-trustees session on Thursday night was a real success, as any of the dozens of students and the several
trustees who were there will tell you. In fact, one trustee there, taking note of the lively discussions going on
around him, was moved to say that it was the first time he had had the chance to hear what
was really on students’ minds. He heard plenty, too. And, perhaps even better, the students could sound out the trustees
as well. Could it be that the era of the seen-but-not-heard student in trustee affairs is coming to an end?
We can only hope.

N. C.’s Real Winner

If anyone emerged as a winner in last week’s state gubernatorial primary, we think it was Dr. Reginald Hawkins, the
Charlotte Negro who challenged the white Democratic leadership. Although he won only 18 percent of the electorate, Dr. Hawkins captured
most of the Negro vote, and thereby became the chief statewide black leader. By marshalling North Carolina’s Negro voters, he
emerged as a force to be reckoned with. The “winners” won shallow victories. Both Democrat Bob Scott and Republican Jim
Gardner face a hard campaign. Neither is sure of success. The Democrats, who have held the state house for generations,
are badly split, and Gardner must convince voters of his depth and ability, not a small task in his case.
But in defeat Dr. Hawkins has captured certain victory. Serious white candidates will have to make their peace with him
if they expect to win in November. The Negro vote may well tip the scales. In the bargains which will
be made this fall, Dr. Hawkins can’t lose.

Helmets And Bayonets

This summer many American cities will resemble armed camps. The helmet and bayonet, the khakis and rifles and the soldiers
marching in the streets will become symbols on television newscasts. There will be scenes of urban violence that will resemble
World War I newsreels. Mobs will form, tempers will rise, and in the midst of shattering glass and burning tenements
the hot and languid summer will witness America’s racial conflict. Magazines will have color pictures of black men running with
stolen cases of beer and television sets. There will be sniper fire from high above the streets and teenage boys
will be killed on street corners by frightened National Guardsmen. The acrid stench of ghetto violence will stifle some American
cities this summer.

The causes of this violence are bound up in 300 years of racial and economic pressure. Three hundred years when
the white majority effectively squelched the black minority. And now deeply disturbed blacks are venting their hang-ups in a wave
of violence. This violence, and especially violence of the current magnitude, is not a predetermined outcome ordained by history and
generations now dead. It is not inevitable that it should rend the fabric of society in its force and viciousness.
The wild outbursts and savage repressions could have been avoided. Something can still be done. White men must communicate with
black men. White men must show black men that they really want to obliterate the legacies of racial oppression. It
is a time to act and speak. To act individually and in groups to achieve a climate of equality of
opportunity and justice, to speak personally to achieve a climate of thought and feeling where racial harmony can be contemplated.
Americans must work to stop the minor incidents and vast reprisals, the purely destructive guerrilla burning and purely destructive armed
occupations and seizures. The political decay and mismanagement of inner city problems must be checked. The overuse and misuse of
military power in civil disorders must be stopped. It is the responsibility of every white American to communicate with his
black neighbors. Or we shall face more summers of pictures of attacking National Guardsmen and dead snipers in ruined buildings
and the ghetto streets will once again be drenched in fire and blood.

To Compulsory ROTC’s Defense

To The Editor:

In my three years at Davidson, I have read numerous editorials and letters to the editor against the compulsory ROTC
program at Davidson. I cannot remember, however, a letter or editorial in its defense. I believe there is another side
to the issue. The conclusion of your editorial “In Defense of Liberty” was: “The defense of liberty will not suffer
if ROTC is placed on a voluntary basis; the commitment of this institution to providing a liberal education will certainly
be strengthened.” I disagree with the use of the word “certainly,” for to use it, one needs to be able
to prove his position. I believe that, at best, it is a debatable point. Your position was based upon the
idea “... that ROTC has no place in the liberal arts curriculum.” It “... does not contribute to the liberalization
of the mind. It does not produce more humane attitudes in young men. It does not broaden their perspective, nor
does it prompt them to seek knowledge purely for the sake of learning.” “Liberalization of the mind” is a nebulous
concept. It incorporates the ideas of broadmindedness, of tolerance. Educators have long argued what contributes in the area and what
detracts, for it raises the old question of how one teaches an attitude. Often the first step in producing more
humane attitudes is the posing of questions of morality. A course may contribute in this area without posing these types
of questions directly. It may help by supplying possible answers to the questions that are raised. I think one's attendance
in ROTC can help crystallize such important ideas as the morality of the use of force in the solution of
problems. Davidson's ROTC Department presents a variety of answers to these types

Seamans: Board Ignored Its Duty

To The Editor:

If there is any particular body connected with Davidson College which taxes its “Christian commitment” seriously, it is the Board
of Trustees. Yet in its recent meeting, this body decided against endorsing a resolution supporting the student body and the
faculty in their attempts to bring Davidson closer to the ideal of a truly integrated community. At the same time,
the trustees decided, in spirit if not in letter, to continue compulsory ROTC. They avoided entirely the question of whether
a church-related college should be in the business of training soldiers. And assorted chapel speakers still continue to wonder why
the church is no longer met by this generation with either a fervent embrace or a hostile rejection, but simply
with yawning indifference?

Geoff Seamans, '68 Davidson College

Wailing Wall

Let THE DAVIDSONIAN be a wailing wall. We welcome letters from any reader, on any subject. Letters received by 4
p.m. Wednesday will usually be printed in that week’s paper unless adequate space is not available—in which case the letter
will be reserved for later publication.

... producing more humane attitudes is the posing of questions of morality. A course may contribute in this area without
posing these types of questions directly. It may help by supplying possible answers to the questions that are raised. I
think one's attendance in ROTC can help crystallize such important ideas as the morality of the use of force in
the solution of problems. Davidson's ROTC Department presents a variety of answers to these typesHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of questions. It also allows the student to bring up his own questions in these areas. Who would think that
an ROTC Department would allow a student in the Advanced Program to call Gen. Hershey a fool during class? Davidson's
department did. I believe one teaches attitudes by example. The Army is based on a rule of law. This is
a basis that one often hears about, but hardly ever sees in action. The Davidson ROTC Department administers these rules
as justly and liberally as possible. I believe that ROTC at Davidson serves as a good example of a liberal,
tolerant administration of rules. This should, at least, help produce one humane attitude, and that is one more than I
have learned after nine courses of math at Davidson. No course necessarily broadens a man’s perspective; it can only provide
an opportunity for his development. Still, I find it hard to believe that the exposure to career Army officers and
enlisted men, veterans of Vietnam, and the Army itself would not broaden one’s perspective. I know of only one way
to prompt men “to seek knowledge purely for the sake of the cultivation of interest.” It is true that ROTC
does not cultivate any great amount of interest because most of those entering it are attempting to escape something. There
are a few students around who might be classified as ROTC “jocks.” Whatever that term includes, it has a connotation
of interest. As with most every other department at Davidson, this is a debatable point. As with every other department
at Davidson, there are vast areas in ROTC where improvement needs to be made. However, change is not necessarily improvement.
One needs to be able to logically defend a decision to change. One needs to show that the change is
an improvement. The editorial “In the Defense of Liberty,” however, did not do this at all.

Harry Hamil, ‘69

Howard Calls Attention To Mysterious ‘Nigras’

To The Editor:

My letter has been prompted by a student's discussion of a sociology term paper in a sociology class, recent discussion
after chapel of the Senior Class gift, and general discussion around campus. News media have made us aware of the
civil rights problems of Negroes, Indians, and other minority groups. I would like to inquire into the situation of another
group which is widely discussed, especially in the South, but neglected by the various media. I am speaking of the
Nigra.

Many speak of this group (a mixture of the Negro and some other group?) but to my knowledge, he is
neglected in Washington and elsewhere. What is his situation? He must be well-liked. Many whites will tell you “some of
my best friends are Nigras” and “I have nothing against the Nigra.” However, the Nigra must not realize how popular
he is because these same whites will tell you that “the Nigra is pushing too fast.” Obviously, the love he
commands in the hearts of the hospitable Southern white would make any pushing for anything unthinkable! What do they (whoever
they are) want? I am at a loss in trying to identify this group. “Nigra” is not in the dictionary,
encyclopedia, or card catalogue. I have only one lead, a tenuous one at best: during my quest, someone told me
that anyone unwilling to pronounce a long “e” and long “o” should have the courage to say nigger. I have
no idea what he meant.

Robert E. Howard, ‘68
Davidson College

ONE LAST SHOT

‘More Than Just A Place’

ED. NOTE: This is the second of three articles by people who are leaving Davidson. The writer this week, a
member of the Class of ‘58, has been director of alumni affairs and assistant to the president. In June he
will take a post with the Babcock Foundation in Winston-Salem.

By BILL BONDURANT

THE DAVIDSONIAN has asked me to write a “farewell” column, and I think that maybe it is because they want
to see my resignation in writing, even if it's only in THE DAVIDSONIAN! Exactly 4,985 days ago I was a
stranger here, a starry-eyed freshman beginning my orientation at Davidson. Today I am still starry-eyed and somewhat more oriented. It
has been, to me, an adventure to live in Davidson. Davidson is where a premium is placed on the unpretentious
and unrestricted seeking for the truth that will see us through the day. It is a time of search and
fulfillment, of experimentation and of disappointment; an exciting moment of realization, an hour of fun, a semester's diligence, a rewriting
of rules, a meaningful conversation, a Ford Challenge, a faculty meeting, and much more. But above all, it is where
there live and work a remarkable group of teachers and students who, even in the face of differences, care very
much about one another. Davidson is a group effort to become Christian, as through our lonely struggles with Truth and
Emptiness we all, sooner or later, confess that we want the college to be and hope that it will become.
It is an old struggle in a new day. T. S. Eliot said, “We shall not cease from exploration And
the end of all our exploring Will be to arrive where we started And know the place for the first
time.” Davidson is to me the time of lofty ideals and the place of great dreams. It is an opportunity
to develop, as Dr. Alderman once said, “a certain instinctive moral quality... to suggest an unfailing reliability of performance, dignity
of demeanor, and exaltation of good taste blended with quiet self-confidence.” I believe that Davidson is at a crucial point
in her development, and that decisions are now being made which will assure that Davidson will make important contributions in
higher education in the future. The noble and successful efforts of faculty and staff to design and underwrite a massive
new curriculum, the thoughtful plans being made for a new student social code of action and responsibility, the undergirding generous
support of alumni and friends who strengthen the college daily; these are but pointers toward a future far more exciting
even than Davidson's remarkable past. It is a place where good people are at home, and their cordial welcome to
their guests who come to study and learn never relaxes nor tires. Even after 4,985 days.

BILL BONDURANT

Davidson College

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Between Parent And Child...

The parent—the Presbyterian Church. The child—Davidson College. The Board of Trustees, who largely represent the parent, must set the tone
of the parental relationship with its progeny. When something like the CRAP Report comes along, a report which revises policies,
the trustees are caught in the middle. They must consider the wishes of the college students in light of the
doctrines of the parental church.

A major issue of interest for all of us is the section of the CRAP Report allowing drinking on campus.
(I am not saying that this is the most important section of the report; I am saying that this is
of major interest to the average student.) In considering the drinking issue, the trustees must have given some thought to
the historic teaching of the church—total abstinence. And they must have considered the practical aspects of the problem. Students drink
on campus in spite of the faculty rule. Davidson has backed itself into a hypocritical corner. The anti-drinking rule remains
on the books; the faculty will not or cannot enforce the rule except on a hit or miss basis, with
a lot more misses than hits. I wonder if the trustees have ever considered confronting students with reality. The reality
that men age 18 and older have the maturity and responsibility to decide if, when, and how much they may
drink. The church must abandon its paternalistic, hand-holding attitudes toward its child, the church-related college, if the latter is to
attain any real stature as an educational institution. To be an educational institution, as opposed to being merely an academic
institution, the college should not, must not tell its students that they may not drink. Rather, the college should present
the issues and viable alternatives and let the students decide for themselves. Davidson places the emphasis in the wrong places.
The church behind the college has said, “You must not.” The church, through its child the college, should say, “You
should not,” and then give some damn good reasons for saying so. A footnote: In three years at Davidson, I
cannot remember a single chapel speaker that has presented any sort of program on drinking and Christian life. Maybe the
church isn’t interested in that sort of thing anyway.

...And Among Siblings

About open dorms, another part of the CRAP Report. At the student-trustee reception, one trustee said, “I can’t see why
students would want to entertain women in their bedroom.” (Emphasis in the original) What this trustee has failed to realize
is that a student's dorm room serves not only as his bedroom. It is also his study, his music room,
and his living room. Students have a right to receive female as well as male guests in some sort of
privacy. A dorm room is the only place on this campus where a student may sit down, talk and play
his favorite records in privacy. Is Davidson such a communally oriented institution that it would deny its students this sort
of privacy? By emphasizing the “bedroom issue” of open dorms, the trustee apparently had visions of fornicating students and worse.
Such fears are largely unfounded. Sexual promiscuity will be largely non-existent in a system of open dorms operated in a
responsible manner. And Davidson students are mature and responsible enough to make an open dorms system work. Besides, opening dorms
to women guests has a secondary advantage. It’s an incentive to keep the dorms clean.
