Davidson And The Southern: An Unfruitful Past

First in a Series
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

On a cold, wind-blown afternoon in February, 1936, officials from six southern colleges met in a smoke-filled room in Richmond,
Va., with representatives from the 10 schools then comprising the Southern Conference. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss
the admission of six newcomers into the South’s most powerful conference. Among those that were admitted was Davidson College.

Since that afternoon more than 32 years ago, Davidson and the Southern have gone through many changes, changes for the
better for the Wildcats only. Davidson's contributions to the conference sports program have been few, and, until the recent surge
toward prominence in basketball and several minor sports, very rare. Not until 1954, a full 18 years after joining the
conference, did a Wildcat team capture any league title. A review of the conference records shows that Davidson has won
just 13 championships and one co-title. All 14 championships came in just three of the Southern's 12 sports.

Besides the championship basketball teams of 1966 and 1968, the Wildcats have won the golf title six times and the
tennis crown six times, including the last four years in a row. That leaves Davidson without a champion in wrestling,
baseball, football, indoor and outdoor track, cross-country, rifle, swimming, and soccer (started as a league sport in 1966) in 32
years. Now, with most of the other conference teams beginning to subsidize athletes in the minor sports, it is a
question of time before Davidson loses its stranglehold on the golf and tennis titles.

A veteran Charlotte sportswriter who has observed the Southern scene for some time best described Davidson's early contributions to the
conference when he said, "until recently, Davidson was the type of team that you padded your schedule with and used
to pick up another win."

"As the records show, Davidson simply did not have the type teams that could win any championships," he said. A
conference official, who also wished to remain unidentified, described the Wildcats prior to 1960 as being "one of the weaker
teams in the conference. They definitely were not as important as they are now."

Then, of course, came Lefty Driesell, Fred Hetzel, and company, who literally put Davidson on the map sports-wise. After that
emergence, and especially since the departure of Virginia Tech and West Virginia, Davidson has been one of the most prestigious
schools in the Southern Conference.

"The conference has an organizational set-up that provides a school with some security," he said. "There is a group of
officials that works for Southern Conference members, and the conference system also gives a team a goal (the conference title)
that an independent wouldn’t have."

"Also, outstanding players are chosen each week in football," he said, "and the conference team winner is eligible to play
in the Tangerine Bowl." A lucrative thought, but not realistic in Davidson’s case. Perhaps the only real offering that the
Southern has had to give the Davidson teams has been the free ride for the conference basketball champion into the
NCAA tournament. Now, however, Wildcat teams have reached the time when they can earn their own way to the national
tournament, without the aid of a conference.

After all, Davidson sports have come a long, long way since that afternoon in 1936.

(Next Week: The Present)

SPORTS — DESK
By BOB DUNHAM

The Coming Of The “Fly”

The “Fly” comes to Richardson Field tomorrow. Disguised as a Paladin quarterback, the “Fly” will no doubt take to the
air a good bit in an effort to squelch any Wildcat swats. Clyde Hewell is the “Fly.” The name is
appropriate in one sense, but quite inaccurate in another. At 5-10, 158 pounds, Hewell is dwarfed by everyone he plays
against, but in ability, he stands as a giant.

In spite of his slightly-less-than-formidable appearance, the Furman senior has already become the greatest passer in the school’s history, and
he has the remainder of this season to continue his streak of broken Paladin records. He holds nine individual passing
and total offense records at Furman after only two seasons as a varsity player. The road for this year, however,
is a bit rockier with the unanticipated loss of his favorite receiver.

At the other end of 53 of the “Fly’s” pass completions last year was classmate Robbie Hahn, another remarkable small
man. At 5-9, 170 pounds, he was nicknamed the “Flea.” The “Fly and Flea” combination was broken up early this
year after an unfortunate and controversial run-in with the Furman honor code. Details need not be expounded here, but the
case’s outcome upset a number of people in Greenville, especially the Furman football squad. Hewell has been somewhat hampered by
Hahn’s departure. His passing average is considerably lower this year, but his game is improving as his new receivers gain
experience.

From his Elberton, Ga., home last weekend, Hewell shows that Davidson has won just 13 championships and one co-title. All
14 championships came in just three of the Southern's 12 sports.

Wildcats To Host Purple Paladins

Two losing teams, the Wildcats of Davidson and the Purple Paladins of Furman meet tomorrow in an effort to make
one of them a winner. The Wildcats are 1-3 and return to action after a two-week lay-off. Furman is also
1-3 after a 34-0 loss to Richmond last Saturday. The Paladins’ attack features the passing of quarterback Clyde Hewell and
the running of slotback Jimmy Jordan.

Davidson also boasts an excellent quarterback in Gordon Slade, second in the nation in passing, as well as a host
of fine receivers including Mike Kelly, George Hannen, and Rusty Lawrence. Coach Homer Smith will make an effort to strengthen
the Wildcats’ outside running game by moving sophomore sprint star Rick Lyon to halfback as Hannen moves to tight end.
Kickoff is at 2 p.m. on Richardson Field.

MALOY BUILDS BOARD STRENGTH

Davidson's basketball Wildcats entered their second week of practice this week in preparation for the season’s opener against VMI on
Nov. 30. The team has been ranked as high as fifth nationally in pre-season magazine polls, and Mike Maloy has
been listed on several All-American teams. The squad meets the University of Tennessee in a closed, pre-season scrimmage Nov. 16
(Staff Photo by Weems).

Cake Winner Bolsters Cross Country Efforts
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

After an inauspicious start, the Davidson cross country has bounded back with improving performances in its last four meets. Perhaps
the main reason for the upswing of harrier hopes has been the addition to the squad of freshman Chris Sikes.
The winner of the freshman cake race earlier this year, Sikes has paced the team to its first victory and
has bolstered the team in two close matches. A high school miler, Sikes ran his first meet, a five-mile event,
against Wake Forest last week. He placed third, to pace Wildcat scoring. Team captain Randy Phillips placed fourth. Sikes termed
the race “quite a new experience,” saying that it was his first effort at the five-mile distance. His second effort
was even more impressive. He placed first in a three-way meet with Campbell and St. Andrews, leading the Wildcat team
to its first victory.

Unified Foglemen To Tackle
By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

The Davidson soccer squad will...Try to put its newly found punch into an attack this afternoon in a key Southern
Conference match with Furman. The game will be played on the Davidson soccer field at 3 p.m., and Coach Harry
Fogleman feels that the team is “ready to win." The ‘Cats dropped a close battle with undefeated Belmont Abbey Tuesday,
3-2, but drew the praise of Abbey coaches and players for their performance. Nearly 1,000 fans watched the game, played
at Belmont, where soccer is the major sport. “The boys played a fine game,” Fogleman said, “and they moved the
ball well. A few key defensive slip-ups were the deciding factors, though." Jim Marrow and Jim McDowell scored for Davidson.
Marrow’s score came on a penalty kick, and McDowell hit the nets on a cross pattern shot. “The team is
unified now,” Fogleman said after the game. “We are moving and we are playing good defense. Belmont was rough, and
we feel ready for anyone now.” The lack of a real scoring punch hampered the Foglemen in the early contests,
Fogleman said, but more and more practice has eliminated the confusion which hurt the offense in the early stages of
the campaign. Fogleman said the team has also overcome the conditioning problem, which hampered the attack at the outset.

He expressed satisfaction with the play of the offense, especially with the scoring punch of wings Roger Peterson and Bill
Horton. In general, Fogleman said, this year’s team has exhibited better ball handling and dribbling than any other team he
has coached here at Davidson. Today's opponent, Furman, has tied The Citadel in its only conference match, while Davidson has
topped East Carolina. A win this afternoon would give Davidson a firm hold on the lead in the southern division
of the conference.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
Frying lessons Apply here:

New ‘Nu’ Power Demolishes Foes
By BILL BERRY

Cats to their first win. “He slacked off Tuesday against VMI, finishing a disappointing seventh, but the said “Robbie Hahn
was a very good receiver and we all miss him, but we have good receivers at Furman and they are
getting the job done.” Perhaps the key to Hewell’s success as a passer and a quarterback is due to his
unending determination and dedication to the game. Last summer he ran over 1,500 miles and threw the ball some 5,000
times. He is an extremely hard worker on the field, and impresses people with his hustle. But Hewell loves the
game. “It seems that I have been playing football all my life,” he said, “and I hope that I can
continue with the game in the coaching capacity after Furman.”

He has had some big moments to reward him for his work. He smashed a Southern Conference record last year
with 354 passing yards against Samford (the record has since been topped by Davidson’s Gordon Slade). He topped Jimmy Poole
and the conference last season in both passing yardage and in total yardage. The biggest moment, though, at least in
Hewell’s eyes, was being named 1967 South Carolina Player of the Year. He says the honor has meant a great
deal, and he is out trying to capture it again this year. Hewell started his football career as a midget
player (quite appropriate) in Elberton, and went right on into varsity high school play at Elberton High School. He kicked
extra points in high school and had two outstanding years as a quarterback, but his size limited the number of
college offers that he received. The other schools’ losses were Furman’s gain. But he is small, and at times it
hinders him, as it hindered Jimmy Poole, Davidson’s mini-mite, during his Southern Conference days. Each time he gets hit, Furman
Coach Bob King closes his eyes. “I don’t see how he takes some of the beatings,” King says. “He’s so
small, but bounces right up after getting hit by players twice his size.” He is hindered by size, Furman has
as much trouble as Davidson in producing a winning season, but it comes a lot closer to achieving its goal
with the “Fly” on its side. When he was pointed out to me last spring at Furman, I couldn’t believe
anyone so diminutive in size could be Clyde Hewell. Even in pads, he looks like he is standing in a
hole. But the “Fly” surprises some people, and tomorrow afternoon he will display any surprises he has stored under his
wings. “Fly” swatters are “in” tomorrow.

Asst. Sports Editor

One of the most exciting and explosive teams in the IMAC in the past few weeks has been Sigma Nu.
After two losses at the outset of the season the Nu's have not lost another game, and are almost certain
to finish in at least a tie for second place. The Nu's have exhibited a devastating offense engineered by tailback
Bruce Weidner. Weidner’s quickness and balance allow him to dodge a charging rusher and make him all but unstoppable. The
Nu’s have averaged 41 points per game when Weidner has played as compared to 17 points per game when he
was absent. Even a double rush employed by the Sigma Chi's failed to stop Weidner, as the Nu’s had their
most productive game, scoring 44 points. In fact, the Nu’s are unbeaten in games Weidner has played. The two losses,
to the SAE’s 26-13 and to the Phi Delts 9-6, were both sustained when he was absent. It would be
interesting indeed to see a rematch between the undefeated Delts and the Nu's with Weidner playing. Weidner is supported on
offense by an experienced cast, almost all seniors. Toby Steve Hayes at halfback have been Weidner’s favorite. The defense has
been good also, although not as spectacular as the offense. The backfield is strong. Weidner at safety, Hayes and Westmoreland
at the halfbacks, and George Skinner at linebacker make up a fine backfield unit. John Lambert does an excellent job
at rusher.

Coach Heath particularly pleased with the performance of Sikes, and says that every bit of additional practice will help his
running. Coach Sterling Martin encouraged him to run cross country as part of his conditioning for spring track. Martin hoped
that it would help him meet or better his high school mile time of 4:29.

You’ll probably travel to exotic foreign lands, and have a secure future in the biggest scientific and research organization. World's
biggest. You'll be where all the exciting Space Age breakthroughs are. Where it's happening. Now. Today. Right now. This minute.
The Air Force is the “now” place to be. If you yearn to fly and don’t try the Aerospace Team,
you'll miss your big chance. Let that be a lesson!

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
Box A. Dept. SCP-810
Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148

NAME (PLEASE PRINT)
COLLEGE
GRADUATION DATE
ADDRESS
AGE
CLASS
DEGREE
