Page Four November 15, 1968 The Davidsonian

COMMITTEE URGES FIVE-YEAR PLAN

Davidson: ‘A Hiding Place From Society’s Frustrations’

ED. NOTE: The following is the final draft of the preliminary report drawn up by the Five-Year Plan Committee. It
will be presented initially to the President’s Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities.

The Five-Year Plan Committee began its research with several assumptions. One of these was that there is a need for
Davidson to acquire a more diverse student body. The student body, as it is now constituted, is so overwhelmingly white,
Protestant, Southern, and upper middle class that the few students here who do not fit in that category are alienated
from their peers and prevented from making a significant contribution to the life of the College. The lack of a
substantial number of students from different American socio-economic groups hinders the educational process. Student life is a far more educative
experience than academic life. There is a need for a greater number of diverse groups to generate a better educational
experience for all Davidson students. It is now possible for a student to graduate from Davidson without having been exposed
to ideas and emotions representative of a large segment of American people. Because Davidson does not have the flexibility of
a large university in this area, it needs to make a special effort to get a diversified student body.

Another assumption was that there is a need to educate, and educate well, a group of Americans who until recently
have been almost wholly denied the opportunity to attend colleges with high academic standing. These are the low-income and minority-group
students who, because of social and educational environment, have not achieved sufficiently in secondary school to enter a college like
Davidson. The current concern in the United States about these groups is long overdue, and what happens to them in
the near future will have a significant impact on America. Students from these groups could benefit from the Davidson experience,
and Davidson would benefit from their presence in the student body. Few such students are now being admitted. Davidson did
not begin admitting Negroes until it became fashionable, and only two alumni are American Negroes. A few students from low-income
and minority groups each year will not significantly improve the character of the student body.

CHRISTIAN COMMITMENT

In order to maintain and expand whatever leadership role Davidson has in Southern education and in the nation in general,
the college needs to find dynamic and creative ways to educate diverse types of people. Davidson is geared to one
type of student and its effectiveness and influence are limited to what it can do with that student. The Christian
commitment, so often touted at Davidson, is not served by a lack of concern for social problems and for persons
outside the average Davidsonian’s social milieu. This commitment, if it is to exist in substance, calls the college to explore
the problems in this area and to act on them to the best of its ability. Davidson must not remain
securely insulated in academic sanctuary, ignoring what is happening around it.

Given these considerations, the Five-Year Plan Committee feels that Davidson College should institute a major program with the goals of
educating a significant number of low-income and minority-group persons and providing a more diverse student body to improve the Davidson
educational experience. The education of these minority group students should provide them with the skills necessary for constructive leadership in
the South and throughout the nation, which they will almost assuredly be called upon to exercise in the years ahead.
These students will wield much more influence in the years immediately following their graduation than the average Davidson student. To
a certain extent, the future of American society depends on the creative capacities of all its citizens. Those groups that,
because of complex factors of national historical development, have been stifled for so long must be given the opportunity to
move, to explore, and to create in the same ways that the present Davidson student does in relation to his
society. Certain advantages are necessary to offset the disadvantages members of these groups have suffered, and the college should assume
its fair share in providing them.

Special programs to educate low-income and minority group students are now in progress at a number of the best institutions,
and Davidson cannot afford to ignore this clear and present need. A program admitting a substantial number of such students
would better educate all students at Davidson. If Davidson is a mirror of society, as is sometimes claimed, then a
careful selection of members of minority groups in our society would improve the educational process. Student life is a vital
part of education, and the opportunity to gain from a stimulating section of students must be taken. After graduation, current
Davidson students will have to deal with a number of social problems. That they should graduate uninformed and untouched by
major areas of national and personal concern is inexcusable. The reality of these social problems and the necessity of dealing
with them would be fostered by personal acquaintance with persons who were familiar with these problems.

HIDING PLACE

Davidson cannot legitimately function as a hiding place from the frustrations and failures of society and send its graduates out
to a world less sheltered than dormitory row and athletic events. The college needs to inform its students of contemporary
problems. The first step in developing a program that would satisfy these goals would be selecting a group of low-income
and minority-group students who are clearly ineligible by present standards. These students would be selected on the basis of personal
qualities and characteristics with little weight given to standardized test scores and grades. Wesleyan University, in its 1968 report to
the Rockefeller Foundation on its five-year program, states that “the main factor in the success of a minority-group student is
his overall personal strength.” Cornell University has found that there is no significant correlation between disadvantaged students’ Scholastic Aptitude Test
scores and their academic records at the university. Current admissions standards measure past achievements rather than future potential. This places
direct and arbitrary barriers in the way of the disadvantaged student. Rather than following normal admissions criteria, colleges having five-year
programs have selected their disadvantaged students on the basis of qualities such as intellectual and emotional toughness, courage, imagination, and
realism. Grades and test scores do not measure the future potential of such students since their poor secondary school achievement
is caused by cultural deficiencies. Harvard’s “Risk-Gamble” program seeks “impressive young men from severely disadvantaged backgrounds who have done so
far with their lives all that could reasonably have been asked of them,” according to the Committee on Scholarships and
Admissions. These students score an average of 400 or better on the College Board SAT’s.

Since one of the goals of this program would be to get students outside of the traditional Davidson mold, it
follows that they will not even approximate present admissions standards. It can be assumed that since middle-class parents are aware
of the value of a college education and encourage their children to seek it, the five-year program will seek students
who do not realize the benefits of college, but who nevertheless have a desire to achieve.

ALTERNATE STANDARDS

This will require finding these students, informing them about the program, and convincing them to come to Davidson. These students
have lifestyles divergent from middle-class standards. In most cases, they have had little exposure to books and other cultural advantages.
Because of these cultural deficiencies and divergencies, low-income and minority-group students do not perform well on standardized tests that are
oriented to the middle class and reflect middle-class experience. These tests are not meaningful for disadvantaged students. Median SAT scores
for disadvantaged students entering Cornell in 1967 were about 175 points below the median for all entering freshmen, but very
few drop out for academic reasons. Analysis showed no significant correlation between their SAT scores and their academic records while
at Cornell. Primary admissions criteria for these students at Cornell were recommendations, evidence of earnestness of purpose, and evaluation in
the context of the high school attended. The Antioch Program for Interracial Education seeks students possessing a number of qualities,
including courage, realism, imagination, skill in communication, tenacity, toughness, openness, ability to encounter new experiences, leadership ability, and confidence. These
appear to be more important to success in college than academic achievement as determined by past performance. Students possessing these
characteristics require only an opportunity for success.

RECRUITING

Many colleges having disadvantaged-student programs feel that early recruitment is a primary factor in the success of the selection process.
Harvard begins recruiting students even back to the junior high school and elementary levels. A number of organizations provide information
about talented disadvantaged students and serve as clearing houses for those wanting to go to college. These include the National
Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students, the Upward Bound program, the Independent Schools Talent Search, and others. A Better
Chance (ABC) at Dartmouth recruits high school students in the tenth grade for special summer programs at Dartmouth and then
sends them to prep schools and good public high schools during the year. Cornell has students referred through the Cooperative
Program for Educational Opportunity, the National Achievement Scholarship Program, and Aspira, a Puerto Rican organization. Another possible selection method is
through selector groups. This appears to be the most effective recruitment technique now in use. As utilized in the Antioch
program, selector groups are set up in four communities which are Antioch. Members of the selector group include clergymen, social
workers, high school counselors, and teachers. Not all students recommended by the selector group can be accepted by the college,
and it is the responsibility of the selector group to help those not chosen to find a useful post-high school
experience. The selector group functions as an adjunct of the admissions office and as a guidance and counseling service. A
further source of information about prospective five-year students could be Davidson alumni who are now ministers and teachers.

There are several methods of orienting disadvantaged students to the college and of devising means to solve their specific educational
and cultural deficiencies. An orientation period during the latter part of the summer can include administration of placement tests and
compensatory short-term courses in some areas.

EXPANSION

It would be necessary for Davidson to admit a fairly large number of disadvantaged students in order to prevent the
feelings of defeat and frustration that Negro students now experience at Davidson. Admission of approximately 30 low-income and minority-group students
each year would enable these students to draw strength from the group and not suffer the common experience of Negro
students now at Davidson. Because of the present composition of the student body, it is difficult if not impossible for
black students to avoid a sense of alienation. A large group of disadvantaged students on campus would gain reinforcement from
the group.and not acquire feelings of loneliness and self-consciousness. Therefore, about 30 students per year, a total of 150 after
five years, would be a number large enough to solve this problem and to provide a significant attack on the
problem of education of low-income and minority groups. At the institutions which now have five-year programs, competent counseling has been
crucial to the success of the program. Counselors would be needed who could understand the emotional problems of disadvantaged students
in an unfamiliar environment. These counselors would be concerned with academic, social, and emotional adjustments. The academic progress of each
student would be evaluated individually. Tutoring by other students is considered vital to the success of the disadvantaged students. They
may, however, resent having tutors forced on them, and it is best to have them choose their own tutors from
students they trust.

REMEDIAL COURSES

Rather than having disadvantaged students take remedial courses which may make them feel set apart from the rest of the
student body, they should be allowed to take a lighter course load. Tutoring can be arranged to provide necessary background
in a course, and summer work through remedial techniques can sharpen language skills and improve mathematical background. It is important
not to make the disadvantaged students feel academically inferior by having them take remedial courses for one year. If remedial
classes prove to be necessary, they should be small and individualized. There should be plenty of informal personal guidance. Wesleyan,
in its report to the Rockefeller Foundation, pointed out that after its crash program in the summer, 14 of 21
students were able to begin taking regular English courses, the very area in which they were expected to have the
most difficulty. At Antioch, the transition to the student sub-culture and the world of academia was aided by the fact
that all Antioch students receive no grades during their first year. The academic performance and achievement of disadvantaged students were
evaluated individually by faculty members, thus enabling students to make the transition under less pressure. Harvard utilizes counseling by graduate
students living in the dormitories and special tutors if needed. City College of New York offers special remedial courses which
meet more hours per week than regular courses. Wisconsin provides extensive tutoring with a graduate student supervising tutors and making
progress reports. Dartmouth has a two-month summer program to help students adjust to the change in community and cultural attitudes
and to the academic situation. Complete counseling and tutoring for a group of disadvantaged students at Davidson would demand the
addition of administrative, counseling, and psychiatric services. Also, Negro faculty members and counselors from low-income and minority groups with whom
the students could identify would be necessary.

A CERTAIN HOSTILITY

Most colleges with disadvantaged student programs report that these students experience a degree of group feeling and a certain hostility
until they begin to realize the humanness of the regular middle-class students and until a period of mutual adjustment occurs.
Many of these colleges have begun offering courses in areas such as Negro history and literature which disadvantaged students are
interested in. These students are also encouraged to participate in extra-curricular activities to aid the adjustment process. Student-faculty discussion groups,
seminars, and plays of special interest are presented by and for disadvantaged students. The academic achievements of disadvantaged students in
colleges that have designed special programs for them have been little short of overwhelming. The rate of attrition has been
low in practically every case. At Cornell in 1965, three out of 37 disadvantaged students dropped out for academic reasons
and two of 46 in 1969. Cornell has reported that “even this small sample encourages the belief that the percent
of academic failure among these students will be small and probably will not exceed that of the student body as
a whole.” Few have left for any reason—30 of 37 in the class of 1969 and 40 of 46 in
the class of 1970 remain. At the University of Wisconsin, 76 of 79 disadvantaged students enrolled in 1967 returned for
their second year. Harvard expects approximately 75 percent of its “Risk-Gamble” plan students to graduate as compared to 90 percent
of normal Harvard students. Disadvantaged students are capable of succeeding in a culture and environment very different from their own.
Not only do they benefit from the college experience, but the low-income and minority group students also contribute noticeably to
the learning process of the college as a whole. The addition of courses geared to meet the needs of disadvantaged
students has drawn the attention and interest of regular student body members. At Wesleyan, students taking such courses come to
realize the contributions to and influence upon American society which low-income and minority groups have had. In addition, the often-protected
children of suburbia gain an appreciation for and interest in contemporary social problems which they will face in the near
future. This seems to be an invaluable approach to finding solutions to these vital questions. As an outgrowth of classes,
seminars, and open-ended discussions started by disadvantaged students at Antioch, regular students become more appreciative of the worth of all
peoples. When the barriers of mistrust and suspicion fall away, both disadvantaged and regular students realize that they mutually benefit
from the humanness of social interaction. Both learn ideas and attitudes which they will take with them outside the college
community. Thus, in addition to creating an awareness among all students, disadvantaged students learn that middle-class whites can come to
understand them and to use that understanding in future life experiences. So it is that disadvantaged students affect the colleges
they attend and the society at large. John C. Hoy, dean of admissions at Wesleyan, commented, “In the next 10
to 15 years, this group of alumni (the disadvantaged) is going to make a contribution to our society that will
be far out of proportion to the average Wesleyan graduate’s impact.” The benefits both to the educational process at Davidson
College and to society would more than offset the expenditure of energy and resources necessitated by a five-year program. Colleges
having disadvantaged-student programs have funded them primarily through large gifts from foundations and individuals. The Ford and Rockefeller foundations have
made large grants to Wesleyan, Cornell, and Antioch, and a number of smaller foundations have contributed to the planning and
maintenance of disadvantaged-student programs at all the colleges having them.

FINANCING

Several colleges have received large grants under the Higher Education Act, and most of the colleges participate in the National
Defense Education Act Student Loan program. Office of Economic Opportunity legislation provides some funds for such areas as work-study jobs.
Antioch reports that over 40 corporations have made contributions, ranging in amounts up to $20,000. It is difficult to determine
what the cost of such a program would be at Davidson. There are a number of different alternatives in the
actual structure of the proposed disadvantaged-student program, and the cost and method of funding would depend on the alternatives adopted.
The major alternatives appear to be either providing one year of remedial work and four years of regular course work,
a five-year reduced course-load plan, or a strictly-summer program such as Project ABC at Dartmouth. A summer program could easily
be devised that would be compatible with a five-year program. The summer program by itself, however, offers no benefits to
the regular educational program of the college. Therefore, it would seem reasonable to establish a summer program only in conjunction
with a five-year program.

Alternative admissions methods to implement the five-year program include decreasing the number of regular students now entering to make room
for the disadvantaged students or increasing the size of the student body.

STUDENT BODY SIZE

It is necessary to matriculate approximately 30 disadvantaged students per year in order to mount a significant attack on the
problem and provide a large-enough number so that the low-income and minority-group students will not be alienated and frustrated by
the atmosphere of Davidson. This would require more faculty members who could help these students with adjustment problems. A mixture
of disadvantaged students for a program at Davidson might include Negroes, poor whites, those from both rural and urban ghettos,
and those from various ethnic groups, such as Puerto Ricans and American Indians. Over five years, this would increase the
student body by 150. This would require new dormitory space and other facilities. It seems preferable to increase the size
of the student body rather than decrease the number of regular students Davidson now admits. As institutions already having disadvantaged
student programs have pointed out, such a program does not compromise the educational quality of the college but is rather
an enrichment of it.

BENEFITS

The benefits to colleges that have disadvantaged student programs have been great. Cornell attributes to its disadvantaged student program “a
marked increase in the variety and richness of student life... For the first time a very important part of our
population is making a major contribution to the intellectual and social environment of the university.” City College of New York
calls it “the fulfillment of the college's moral and educational responsibility.” Mr. Hoy of Wesleyan calls the achievements of Wesleyan's
students “extraordinary” and says that “the morale and attitude of the Negro students themselves are the primary strength and justification
for the program.” Jewel Graham, director of Antioch’s program, says that “probably the most positive impact on the community is
that people from different backgrounds become real—to be dealt with on an equal basis—not as inferiors or superiors, not as
ghetto children to tutor or to be tutored, not as poor Negroes to be helped or whites to be tolerated;
not as the household help to do menial work or employers of household help, but as fellow students—peers.” Davidson should
not deny the benefits that a disadvantaged student program would have for both the college and the society of which
it is a part. There is an opportunity for Davidson to make a major contribution to education and to society
which it would be selfish and unrealistic to neglect. The difficulties involved can be overcome. Davidson can commit itself to
total and impartial education of the whole man, or Davidson can continue to turn away and insulate itself from social
problems. We believe that the good of society and the educational program at Davidson would best be served by the
institution of a five-year program for students from low-income and minority groups.
