Page Six * October 25, 1968

(Staff Photo by Lyle)

A MOORESVILLE TEXTILE WORKER
Mooresville mills are good employers.

Debaters Go 4-8 In Auburn Match

The debate team compiled a 4-8 record in a six-round tournament last weekend at Auburn in competition against Alabama, Florida,
Mississippi, Sanford, Tennessee, and Vanderbilt. The topic debated was “Resolved: That the executive control of U.S. foreign policy should be
significantly curtailed.”

The negative team of Jim Cooley and Fletcher Hartsell had a 3-3 record. Their three losses were by a combined
total of five points. Gray Mason and Jule Young took the affirmative and logged a 1-5 record. The weakness of
this effort reflects the fact that the negative teams are winning about 80 percent of their matches this year.

The next varsity tournament will be held at Emory on October 31. It is one of the biggest tournaments in
the South. Jim Cooley, Fletcher Hartsell, Gray Mason, and Jule Young will probably represent Davidson at Emory.

Election

Six persons were elected to the new Residence Hall Council Thursday, and there is a runoff today for another spot
on the council.

Elected to the council were Bruce Wolff, Richardson; Bill Gregory, Watts; Bill Funderburk, Little; Ken Prestwich, Belk East; Ran Coble,
Belk Center; and Tom Opie, Belk West. The runoff for the Duke Dormitory spot is among Stew Brown, Doug Haynes,
and Cader Howard. Brown led the voting Thursday. Representatives from Cannon and East Dormitories will be elected next Wednesday.

Analysis (Continued From Page 1)

The president designates the committees, can call for order and halt discussion at the right time, and can stifle any
member's ambitions for higher office with a few inauspicious committee assignments. The arrangement works well to hide any individual responsibility
for the Senate's decisions. The president can always blame a recalcitrant Senate, but a search of Senate minutes reveals nary
an account of who voted how on an issue, and rarely even the text of a resolution adopted.

Only two or three senators head up projects of their own, and expectedly, they are the ones who receive the
most flak from ambition-conscious senators. For whether it is ambition for higher office, or interest in a project for the
sake of the project, distinctive behavior by any senator other than the president is suspiciously eyed as a power grab.
The jealousy is real, too. Murphy had to call down the Senate three times in a recent meeting for jabs
at potential candidates for the SGA presidency and vice-presidency.

But power resides with the senators who work more than with the others, for two reasons: Those senators have the
specialized knowledge that other senators lack, and they have the willingness to use it.

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editor:
ANDERSON DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
ARNICK ANDERSON
BIFF FINE

Sports Editor:
BOB D

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Contributors this week:
Russ Merritt, Steve Williams, Don Parman, Norwood Poland, Dan Graham, Charles Knighton, Hugh Marr, Charlie Terrell, Harvey Jackson, Mike LaPlante,
John Rowe, John McLean, Ed Shoaf, Steve Cross, Rob Krehbiel, and Steve Roady.

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

Cartoonists:
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

The Davidsonian

THE OTHER DAVIDSON -- A Community That Trusts Only Itself

By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

A subtle feeling of distrust and resentment toward the white establishment is prevalent among many citizens of The Other Davidson.
It is the product of long years of residence here and many fruitless efforts at dealing with the town government
and its many committees, the college and local employers and manufacturing firms, businesses, and in some instances federal bureaucrats from
Charlotte.

The feeling of distrust manifests itself often in the area of employment. Many feel that whites receive priority in hiring
and advancement at most firms in the Davidson area. One resident of The Other Davidson says that some businesses in
town will hire Negroes and later say that they are not working and fire them. “But then they go to
Mooresville and get jobs there and they seem to work all right there.”

Most of the people of The Other Davidson who do not work for the college work out of town, primarily
in Mooresville. The two textile mills in Mooresville are generally felt to be the best employers. “Only white women are
working at Carolox. At Carolina Asbestos (H. K. Porter Co.) they don't hire Negroes. They have been in Davidson for
years and years and they go back to what grandfather used to do. They do things the same old way."

Carolox Corp. personnel department said that it has “no Negro employees at this time.” They declined to release wage figures
and number of personnel. Jim Fortner, personnel manager of H. K. Porter Co., said...The average wage for Porter’s 60 production
workers is over two dollars an hour, or $4160 per year, with only five employees earning less than that. “We've
always employed colored people, ever since I came here in 1933," he said. “It varies. Sometimes as many as half
our employees have been colored people.”

Some people also feel that some firms in town won't hire employees away from the college. College authorities denied this:
“If you tell them (General Time) you work at the college you won't get a job. There are no (former)
college people working over there."

“They don’t have any Negro secretaries over there. They won't let Negro women advance. At the shirt factory (Mooresville Mills)
and Reeves Brothers they have Negro secretaries.”

The average wage at General Time is over two dollars an hour for production workers, ranging between $1.70 and $3.80,
said Earl Adams, personnel manager. “I don’t recall having any applicants from the college," he said. He added that an
“excellent labor climate” was one reason why General Time moved to this area. “We have quite a few Negroes working
here that have advanced into very responsible jobs," Adams said. “The opportunity is the same.”

The College’s 33 buildings and grounds employees receive a minimum of $1.60 an hour, or $3328 per year. Most are
making more than the minimum. Whether these feelings are grounded in absolute fact or not is not important. What is
important is that residents of The Other Davidson are distrustful of the dominant majority in the town. The white community
has very little conception of how much the Negro community doubts their intentions.

Even on the Mayor's Committee on Community Relations, which many white people feel to be a symbol of open and
honest communication between the two groups, distrust is prevalent. Some Negro members of the committee feel that the white members
meet without them before the regular meetings and that the regular meetings are rigged. It is very difficult for the
black community to believe that most white people are sincerely motivated.

The black community has reasons to be distrustful—long years of experience of living in Davidson, of frustration and defeat. Conditioned
by years of dealing with the white establishment, The Other Davidson has come to trust only itself.

MSA (Continued From Page 1)

accommodate both married students and guests. “It is our belief that this would be a valuable investment for Davidson especially
since the Guest House is not adequate, and the number of married students is increasing,” Hazel added.

M.S.A. operates as a self-supporting unit financing its own activities. “We started a ‘Welcome Wagon’ this fall for the new
married students. About a dozen merchants donated gift certificates to help the new couples when they first arrive,” Hazel said.

Cashion’s Supermarket has agreed to donate one percent of the married students’ receipts to the MSA treasury. The married students
publish a directory on which they give brief sketches of each couple. They are also planning a “Married Students’ Follies”
in the spring in order to raise money for a playground.

The Union Board is planning to give financial assistance to the association for babysitting in order to integrate the married
students into the college community. “We just cannot afford to pay $1.00-an-hour for babysitters as the faculty does. And since
most of the high school girls in the community are busy or have jobs, it is almost impossible to get
anyone to babysit for 50c-an-hour,” Martha Eakes, vice president of the association, said. “With a little help, we would be
able to get babysitters so that we would have time to enjoy some of the activities on campus,” she added.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Are you tired of writing the news about Davidson to your girl and parents? Why not send them a DAVIDSONIAN
subscription and save your letters for the important things? For Information Concerning Subscriptions Call: 692-8021, Ext. 381
Send in a subscription to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.
Rate: $6 per year; $6.50 if billed.
Name:
Street:
City, State:

OPEN HOUSE
The following faculty homes will be open to students this Sunday night at 8:
Bryan, Alden 7 Jackson Court
Burnett 439-A North Main
McGeachy 309 Pinecrest
Puckett 105 College
Walls 117 Lorimer
Wolf 204 Woodland

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

1 Qt. Potatoes
1 Pt. Gravy
18 Rolls
15 Pieces Chicken
Food For Saturday Night Supper
503 S. Broad St.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

You don’t need a slide rule to figure the capabilities of the great new Olds 4-4-2. Check out the vital
statistics and you'll see what we mean. 400 cu. in. displacement. 350 horsepower. 440 lb.-ft. torque. 4-barrel carb. And dual
low-restriction exhaust. And if it’s the ultimate head-turner you're after, order your 4-4-2 with Force-Air induction. (Better known as Dr.
Oldsmobile's W-30 Machine.) So if you're planning an escape from the ordinary, why not make it big! Make it in
a 1969 Olds 4-4-2, Oldsmobile: Your escape from the ordinary.
