Page Four October 25, 1968 The Davidsonian

Series Offers Guitar Player, ‘Curlew River’

Mexican guitarist Miguel Alcazar and a modern opera company will entertain tonight at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The first
half of Alcazar's program will include centuries-old works for the lute by Le Roy, Milan, Dowland, and Bach. The second
half will feature guitar music by Castelnuovo-Tedesco, Villa-Lobos, and Alcazar. Alcazar has won a composition prize in contests sponsored by
the Mexican Guitar Association and has been on the faculty of the Cleveland Institute of Music.

At 8 p.m. Saturday in Spencer Love Auditorium, the unusual new opera ‘Curlew River’ will be presented as the second
Davidson Artist Series production of the year. The opera, written by Benjamin Britten, is styled after the English medieval religious
drama but based on the ancient Japanese “No”-play “Sumidagawa.” It has been translated by Britten and his collaborator, William Plomer,
to Curlew River and a church in the Fens, English lowlands. The story itself is about a distraught mother in
search of her lost child. The entire company assumes the roles of monks to begin the performance with a procession
into the theatre. As they take their places, soloists don their masks and costumes and the action starts. Music will
be provided by the first-chair players of the Little Orchestra Society of New York. The cast includes five vocal soloists,
drawn from the leading American opera companies, plus a male chorus.

‘Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, October 25
10 a.m. Stammtisch
1-6 p.m. Quips-and Cranks Photos
6:15 p.m. Miguel Alcazar: Snackbar Green Room B Hodson Hall * Mexican Guitarist

Saturday, October 26
Freshman Parent’s Day Davidson College
All Day Richardson Field Davidson vs. Furman
2 p.m. Football:
8 p.m. Movie: “Taming of the Shrew” Morrison Room
8 p.m. Opera: ‘Curlew River’ Love Auditorium

Sunday, October 27
7:30 p.m. Worship Service Lingle Chapel
8:30 p.m. ‘Miracles’ in concert Ovens Auditorium

Monday, October 28
1-6 p.m. Quips and Cranks Photos Green Room B
7 p.m. Film: “Don Quixote” Perkins Auditorium
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Morrison Room “Donnery and Rudd”
8 p.m. Philanthropic Society Phi Hall
10:30 p.m. Open End: Dr. Spencer Union Lobby

Tuesday, October 29
10 a.m. Assembly: Terry Sanford, Love Auditorium Chm., Citizens for Humphrey
1-6 p.m. Quips and Cranks Photos Green Room B
4 p.m. Cross Country Meet Here
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Morrison Room “Donnery and Rudd”

Wednesday, October 30
7:50-2:40 p.m. SGA Elections and Presidential Poll Chambers Lobby
1-6 p.m. Quips and Cranks Photos Green Room B
3 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. Pfeiffer Soccer Field
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Morrison Room “Donnery and Rudd”
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Through a Glass Darkly” Love Auditorium

Thursday, October 31
10 a.m. Assembly: ODK tapping Love Auditorium
7:50-2:40 p.m. SGA Elections Chambers Lobby
1-6 p.m. Quips and Cranks Photos Green Room B

Friday, November 1
7:50-2:40 p.m. SGA Elections Chambers Lobby
1-6 p.m. Quips and Cranks Photos Green Room B
2 p.m. Freshman Football: Davidson vs. The Citadel Richardson Field
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Morrison Room “Donnery and Rudd”

Water To Get Fluoride Soon
By NORWOOD POLAND Staff Writer

Davidson students and residents will soon be enjoying better dental health as a result of water fluoridation, Mayor F. L.
Jackson announced this week. The Town Council has budgeted $3,500 this year for special equipment to add fluoride chemicals to
the town’s water supply. The contract will be let and operations begun when approval is received from county and state
health departments. Certain fluorine compounds have been found to significantly reduce the incidence of tooth decay. Most large cities now
add fluoride to their water supplies in the same way that chlorine is added for purification. “Davidson will be the
fourth town of its size in the state to fluoridate its water,” Jackson said. “The local PTA and county dental
groups have been urging the town to take action on fluoridation for three years.” Cornelius residents, who buy water from
Davidson, will also benefit from the fluoridation. Although fluoridation has been met with opposition in some communities, “no one in
Davidson has registered a complaint about it yet,” Jackson said.

DONNERY AND RUDD “Urban Folk” music featured at Hungry d

‘Urban Folksters’ Play At Hungry d

Donnery and Rudd, a young couple from Cleveland, Ohio, specializing in “urban folk” music, will be the featured attraction during
the first Hungry d of the year starting next Tuesday and running through Saturday in the Morrison Room of the
Union. Although they have been singing together only one and a half years, Donnery and Rudd have second-acted such outstanding
performers as Odetta, Doc Watson, Dave VanRonk, Tom Rush, and others, according to Charles Page of the Union Board's coffeehouse
committee. Soft drinks and snacks will be available throughout the shows. In accordance with the Code of Responsibility, students will
be able to bring their own alcoholic beverages. Even though most college coffeehouses do not serve alcoholic beverages, the members
of the Union Board agreed unanimously that the Davidson Hungry d could benefit by doing so, under strict observance of
the Code of Responsibility, according to Jim Lee, secretary of the board. Shows start nightly at 7:30. Tickets are on
sale at the Union desk.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FALL TERM 1968-69

Monday, December 9
9 a.m. First hour classes

Tuesday, December 10
9 a.m. Sixth hour classes
2 p.m. Second hour classes

Wednesday, December 11
9 a.m. Third hour classes
2 p.m. Seventh hour classes

Thursday, December 12
9 a.m. Independent Study Sections (10 a.m. period)
2 p.m. Fourth hour classes

Friday, December 13
9 a.m. Fifth hour classes
2 p.m.

Student Reaction To Code Approval ‘Mature’ ---Burts

Student behavior since liberalized drinking rules went into effect with the passage of the Code of Responsibility two weeks ago
has been mature, two administrators and the vice president of the student body said this week. No violations of the
new rules have been reported as yet, according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr. And his assistant, James
J. Terry, said, “I think we have students who can accept the code and live up to it.” “The reaction
has been mature,” Vice President Peter Hobbie said. “So far I haven't seen the new rights flaunted in any way.”
Both Burts and Terry reacted favorably to the changes themselves. Terry called the code a “fine thing,” and Burts said
he was “heartedly in favor of it.” The alcohol section of the code is “delicate,” Burts said, but he called
it “not so much a change as a recognition of the situation.” He said, “Drinking violations were occurring (before the
code was approved), but the strictly prohibitive rules could not be enforced on a student body which had lost all
identification with enforcement. The new code, in which...Union Drinking Area
By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

The Union Board has expanded its drinking policy by permitting drinking at certain social events and in a new lounge
which will open next week, according to Union Board Chairman Ed Embree.

“Since the snack bar is not a very good place to drink, we decided to set up a room in
back of the Morrison Room where students and faculty can come to talk and have a drink,” Embree said. The
future lounge is unnamed at present. Students will also be able to drink at social events such as the Hungry
I, Embree said. Beverages will be “carded” at the door and put in the refrigerator in the kitchen behind the
Morrison Room until the student wants a drink. The card will record the name of the student, the type of
drink, and the number of bottles. Waiters will open and pour the drinks in the kitchen, and then bring them
to the tables in cups. “This solves the logistical problems of keeping the drinks cold and ensures that the opening
of ‘pop-tops’ will not disturb the performers,” Embree said.

For students who bring liquor, I.D.’s will be checked at the door. “We don't want to be policemen, but we
are responsible for everything that happens over here, and we must ensure that the rules in the Code of Responsibility
and the laws of North Carolina are followed,” Embree said. Embree noted that the student is responsible for any guest
he brings on campus. Students must make sure that the guest does not violate the Code of Responsibility with respect
to age limits on drinking. He said all beverages brought into the Union should be “brown-bagged,” not carried openly.

Hub and the students accept the responsibility of regulating their own drinking, which leads to improved communication on all parts,
resulting in a much better educational system. “The code is based on freedom, not license,” said Burts. “The success of
the code is dependent upon the active support of everybody in the student body.” Terry said he wasn’t surprised that
a great majority of the student body supported the code. He said that the student referendum on the code brought
out the largest number of students ever to vote on an issue at Davidson. The vote was 802-22 in favor
of the code.

The other feature of the code that attracted the most attention—that on open dorms—will probably go into effect sometime next
month, Hobbie said. Election of representatives for the Residence Hall Council from the upperclass dormitories was held this week, and
next week the freshmen in Cannon and East will elect their representatives. “I hope the Residence Hall Council will be
in an operating position by the first week of November,” said Hobbie, who is RHC chairman. “I think we can
expect to have open dorms on a limited basis fairly soon after that.”

Super Salesman Wins Scholarship

Senior Ed Childs has been awarded a $1,000 scholarship as a result of his outstanding work this summer selling encyclopedias.
Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. presented the award from the P. F. Collier, Inc., Oct. 16. Childs was
one of 15 students to win $1,000 scholarships in the company’s annual summer vacation training program. More than 4,000 college
students participated this year in the program, all of whom were eligible for scholarships. This was Childs' first year with
the P. F. Collier student sales force.

Midterm Grades Scrapped—Ostwall

There will be no more midterm grades, according to Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, registrar. No reasons were given for the
change, but the faculty has agreed not to compile them. Ostwalt said, however, that with the length of the new
term, the midterm grades would probably not come out until almost exam time.

Falk Urges Unity With Christians
By STEPHEN ROADY
Staff Writer

Rabbi Randall M. Falk of the Jewish Chautauqua Society told his chapel audience Tuesday that Jews and Christians share the
same ethical and moral concerns and that the two religions need to unite to work for a better world. A
graduate of Vanderbilt University, Falk resides in Nashville and is a popular speaker for student groups in the Nashville area.
In exploring some Jewish values that have helped to preserve the Jewish people throughout history, Falk first stated that Jews
believe in one God for all humanity. He said that different groups merely approach Him from different value-structures. God is
not dead for the Jew—“He may be missing in action,” Falk said, but He is still real. The Jews believe
in the basic goodness of man, since man is God's partner, who works with Him to build an earthly kingdom.
Therefore, the Jews believe that their purpose on earth is to work with God to build this earthly kingdom. They
feel a deep responsibility to be not just their brother's keeper, but their brother's brother. So, said Falk, Jews realize
their religion must have an effect on the social conditions of the day. One of the great challenges facing us
today, he said, is to maintain a Judeo-Christian ethic that will not only relate to such problems as housing and
job opportunities, but also perpetuate an environment in which one can truly be a child of God.

New Course On Alcohol Headed Up By Experts
By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

The required freshman course on alcohol, drugs, and mental health, called for in a trustee resolution Oct. 11, will probably
be initiated next fall, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. said Monday. Although plans are not definite, the non-credit
course will probably replace the first term of physical education for all freshmen, Burts said. The problem with scheduling the
course involves trying to teach everyone soon enough in their college career for the course to be of benefit. Current
plans for the course call for instruction by the college physician as well as other specialized college personnel such as
faculty from the departments of biology, chemistry, and psychology. Burts also suggested the use of personnel from the ABC Board
and the Wilmoth Alcoholic's Hospital in Charlotte. The trustee suggestion for such a course met very favorable response from the
faculty, Burts said. He noted that the idea for such a program had existed in some faculty circles even before
the trustee action.
