Che Mavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968

The Mess Hall Affair

Something about the Union cafeteria situation is fishier than last Friday’s menu. In the first place, although just about everybody
concerned is worked up over the 71 rating that haven of culinary delights received last month, nobody seems to know
precisely whom to blame for it. And in the second place, if the Student Life Committee hadn’t just happened on
the scene, it’s not at all unlikely that the college would have done the usual in meeting the problem—i.e., practically
nothing.

Even now there’s still a possibility of another cover-up job, for the Student Life Committee, after hearing out Slater Manager
Klaus Kleeberg and Business Manager Robert A. Currie the other day, exerted itself positively enough to recommend only another in
a long line of committees for this, that and the other. Of course, the proposed committee—to be composed of several
meal ticket holders—can help the situation considerably. If the Slater management does meet with that committee regularly, as it has
promised to do, grievances should at least get an airing.

Up to now, unfortunately, legitimate grieving has been a waste of time. A few weeks back a Food Service Committee
formed by the Union Board came out with a detailed report itemizing good features and unsatisfactory ones in the cafeteria
and made some recommendations for improvement.

That Ant

One of the more mundane irritations now afflicting Davidson students comes in the form of an ant infestation in some
of the dormitories. The ant plague, centered in Watts but reportedly moving rapidly into Little and Belk, is accompanied by
an onslaught of cockroaches and occasional other assorted vermin. Few things are more disconcerting than to open one’s drawer in
the morning and take out a pair of ant-covered underwear. The current breed of small ants particularly prefer desks, underwear
drawers, lavatories and commode lids, though they occasionally slip into beds and other areas.

Dorm residents report that although the custodians periodically spray the insects, it only reduces the ants’ activity for about two
days, when they return, like the swallows coming back to Capistrano. The ant infestation is nothing new. It is only
one of a number of problems in those living quarters—that would be considered undesirable in any urban slum. For anyone
who has never been inside a Davidson College dormitory, it is an experience similar to entering a tenement in Spanish
Harlem. The dorms are all designed on the floor plan of a stable, with the exception of Duke. There are
lobbies only in Belk, Little and Richardson. Not surprisingly, the social center of every hall is the bathroom.

Even a month before the health inspectors hit the cafeteria with its celebrated “C,” the committee was reporting bandaids, insects,
pills and hairs in the food (reports of the discovery of a mouse’s tail could not be confirmed). It was
bemoaning menu monotony, price discrepancies and the demise of the popular snack bar. And it was recommending, among other things,
clarification of the college’s responsibility in supervision and evaluation, posting of menus, special meals and more variety. But not only
were the committee’s offerings not taken to heart, they were also apparently not even read by some of those to
whom they were directed.

There are a number of other bothersome questions as well. Like, how can the food service that calls itself “America’s
most experienced dining service” explain away an inexcusable health rating? Or, again, how can the college explain the $10,000 profit
the annual treasurer’s report says it made on the cafeteria last year (with an operative snack bar)? What is needed
is a little less pussyfooting around and a lot more direct action. The college is responsible; Slater only provides the
management. What is needed is direct supervision on a regular basis—and if the administration can’t do it, we’re willing to
bet students could handle it. Otherwise, the next time the health inspectors come calling, the “71 Club” just might flunk
its exam.

Infestation ANTS

This effort at facilitating social interaction was thwarted in the newer dormitories, which have two bathrooms, one at each end
of the hall. In the older dormitories a small central bathroom serves as meeting area and informal lounge. The rooms
are for the most part square—in fact, entirely square. There is no ready or even remote answer to general complaint
about students housing now. But the plague of ants does seem unnecessary. They are not pleasant bedfellows.

Boosting The Board

With all due respect for its recent victory, football is not the only area in which Vanderbilt is making progress.
The Vandy Board of Trust recently amended its bylaws to allow recent graduates of its undergraduate school to serve as
full voting members of the board. A member of the current senior class will serve four years on the board
beginning next fall. The purpose of the change, in the words of Chancellor Alexander Heard, is “to bring the viewpoints
of recent students to the deliberations of the board, to forward the knowledge of young alumni concerning the university, and
encourage their participation in its activities and service.”

The board is simply raising its membership by four members to allow four young graduates, who have no other connection
with the university than as alumni, to serve four-year terms on the board. These men will be elected by the
members of their own class and the two classes which preceded them in graduation. Since we've heard talk that the
method of electing trustees at Davidson may be re-examined in the near future, we hope that our own trustees will
consider making such a progressive and practical change. Such a move would recognize the substantial contributions which such men can
make to the understanding of student affairs at Davidson and to the ways in which the educational programs of the
college can be improved. A similar recognition has occurred by the appointment of students to faculty committees, where students have
already made some valuable contributions.

Probably most significant, though, would be the enthusiasm which young graduates would bring to the board. It would be an
honor to be elected a trustee, and those elected would undoubtedly feel a compelling obligation to make a significant contribution.
Besides, if progressive educators like Terry Sanford advocate appointing young men to high government positions, we feel the Board of
Trustees certainly ought to consider having some young men in its ranks, too.

Santa Klaus

In RESPONSE To NUMEROUS REQUESTS THAT THE SNACK BAR BE REOPENED

Students Will Chase Any Beautiful Face

By DAVID SWEATT Managing Editor

While students continue to cry crocodile tears over the dearth of female companionship in the Davidson environs, there appear to
be some prospects for a more shapely future around the old college. No steps have been taken toward any permanent
residency of the fairer creatures here, despite the train of “lets-get-'em-now” editorials in THE DAVIDSONIAN's columns and the pleas of
passion-starved students. Despite reports of an overwhelming persistence of no minds at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, that school
now has a number of local lasses on its rolls and with the opening of dormitories on campus next year
the prospects for a better selection are good indeed. Besides, Davidson men have notalways shown themselves completely dissatisfied with young
women outside the nation’s intellectual elite. Davidson cars have plied the road to Queens for many years now. And for
the foreseeable future, the road to the sacred altar of Aphrodite appears to be paved with the same old asphalt.
Yet with the coming of the predicted bonanza at UNC-C, comes also a new access to what could prove to
be a major source of heavenly terrestrial bodies for future generations of Davidson students. Construction of a road from the
UNC-C campus on I-85 to Mallard Creek Road was to begin early last month. The two-lane artery, to be widened
to four, may carry the lifeblood of Davidson's future social life. The road won't be completed before some time in
1969 or 1970, but a visit to the new girls’ dorms early next fall may show the new access route
to be just that. Another possible avenue, one almost completely unexplored to date, is Central Piedmont or UCLA (University of
Charlotte Lizbeth Avenue) to you locals. It’s worth a check. Some of the girls aren't bad at all and are
a little more down to earth than their cool “what's-your-major” counterparts. Another nearby school that deserves attention is South Carolina's
Winthrop College in Rock Hill. Surprising as it may seem, Davidson is the closest men's college to this concentration of
several thousand belles — mostly Southern. It’s a mixed bag and blind dates are not scorned. Experience has proven that
such encounters can be most satisfactory. But this enlightened search for the scented creatures is not the only means to
a better social life. Another is obviously to improve the functions planned for the times when the lovelies are here
on campus. Students at Amherst recently staged a sort of ‘tap-in’ during a Sunday afternoon open house. With girls from
nearby Holyoke, a volleyball net, a football, and three frisbees, the half keg went down smoothly to the strains of
Bob Dylan. Many students at Amherst, Mount Holyoke, and Smith said they missed the casual friends of the opposite sex
they once had. So they tried this. “No one was jumping up and down with wild enthusiasm, and no tears
were shed when the girls left,” reported The Amherst Student, “but comments indicated that an afternoon of sitting around and
talking was a pleasant but all too infrequent change of pace.” The advent of keg parties at the fraternity houses
here has brought a little more casuality to this campus, but with the recent rules changes, inventive social chairmen in
fraternities and at the Union should be able to come up with more variety than has been possible under the
old two-concert, two-rock-party routine for big weekends and the rather drab offerings of little weekends. “It must be that they're
all so smart or something,” puzzled a girl from a nearby college after having spent only one evening on the
Davidson social circuit and vowing great hesitancy at the thought of returning. How about a little imagination?

By BOB REID
Associate Editor

Losing Streak

The Union kitchens have been condemned. Homer Smith can be relieved that something besides the football team is having a
poor season. What we need is a “Klaus Kleeberg Show” which, instead of running tapes of the previous day’s massacre,
could be an educational program featuring new specimens of insects discovered in the Union cafeteria. So the viewers would be
sure to understand that Davidson is primarily an educational institution, the nature of Dr. Daggy drooling over a newly-discovered bee
while some drone from Charlotte interviewed the freshman who made the discovery while eating his dinner. If that enterprise doesn't
work, maybe someone would like to cover the thousands of ants who call the Union home with chocolate and export
them to Europe. Rats are considered a delicacy in parts of Africa, and surely there should be a few of
the furry little creatures hiding somewhere in that place. Several were found in the cafeteria two years ago, which incidentally
was the last time Slater promised to clean up the facility. Pretty soon people won't know whether those signs reading
“UCH” refer to Union Coffee House, or are merely expletives uttered by a man who’d rather get his penicillin by
injection than on his bread. Maybe the best plan might be to make the kitchen a science laboratory, featuring rare
samples of mold, insects, mice, and assorted grunge. And for food, well, there’s always Mrs. Copeland’s. But what makes the
cafeteria situation so bad is that the criticism has been voiced for at least five years. Probably longer. Years ago
in Summer school, the manager told us the egg and peanut butter caked on the silverware were “calcium deposits from
the water.” You bet. Then there was the time some irate Independents dragged a certain member of the administration down
to the lunch lines for a demonstration of the fact that Australian aborigines aren't the only people who eat dirt.
Or the “stomach disorders” which weren't food poisoning, but that struck only those who ate at the Union. If the
college is so interested in making the Union the great ecumenical force on campus, one would think officials would want
to make the cafeteria and snack bar facilities appealing to students rather than other life forms. The Christian Commitment doesn’t
mean we have to establish an insect sanctuary. But until someone in authority gets interested in the situation, the mold
and grime are safe. It appears that the fraternity curfew isn’t the only issue some people are indifferent toward.

Students And Educators Approve Of Coeducation

By College Press Service

Although the place of the sexually segregated college has been questioned since Winter Frolics women literally and symbolically began wearing
pants, this year’s coeducation advocates have some rather impressive support. Recently at Princeton University, a committee completed an in-depth study
of the merits of coeducation. The committee concluded that a male-female education program would “greatly enrich the cultural and social
life of (Princeton) students and would tend to develop in undergraduates (of opposite sexes) a sense of responsibility toward one
another.” Although the study was compiled for use at Princeton, it has served as a model for other colleges, both
male and female, who on the strength of their own findings have initiated coeducational programs. The increasing interest in coeducation
(among those who don’t take it for granted) is due not only to the advancing position of women in the
world, but is also a response to the cry for university reform. The thrust of the ‘student movement” has been
to implement social change through relevant education. In many cases, reform has been directed toward transforming the university into a
model community which would have ramifications in the city or town in which the school is located. Such an academic
community would most of all be diverse — an exchange market for ideas and points of view. One of the
most obvious sins against this educational model is the exclusion of the opposite sex. According to the Princeton survey, the
sexually segregated arrangement “tends to encourage the view that intellectual activity and the opposite sex are incompatible.” Solutions to the
coeducational dilemma have been many. The three primary plans are the multi-college exchange program, the coordinate college plan, and total
coeducation.
