Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Rosalie HOOKER Editor-in-Chief
MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1968

What The Davidsonian Is

You'd think we were beating up our mother or selling the secret formula for pork and beans to the Red Chinese, judging from the criticism we've been getting. But actually all we’re doing is putting out a newspaper, the way we think it ought to be done. That’s what THE DAVIDSONIAN is, you know: a newspaper. Forget that outdated motto under the nameplate. Like a lot of other traditions around here, the name “The News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body” ought to be changed. It’s a misnomer, and it’s time a lot of folks around here got that straight.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is not a public relations mouthpiece for the student government, the Social Council, the Athletic Department, the CRAP Committee, or anybody else. If it’s a PR man you want, try the College News Bureau. They'll fix you up with as good a “white-wash” as you'll find. THE DAVIDSONIAN is not a bulletin board either. There are enough of those around already. Announcements belong in the Union’s announcement sheet, not this newspaper.

What THE DAVIDSONIAN is, is a newspaper. That means it prints the news—not necessarily as the student government or the Athletic Department or the faculty would always like to see it printed, but as the staff thinks is most fair, appropriate, and appealing. That means it is a public forum. Its pages are a wailing wall for anyone who’s concerned enough to take the time and the brain strain to write a letter to the editor. That means it raises a little hell, too. For as long as there is a Davidson College, there will be things wrong with it. And as long as there are things wrong, THE DAVIDSONIAN will complain.

Just don’t get the idea that the editorial views expressed in this column are those of the student body as a whole. They aren't. Editorial policy is formulated by a 6-man board of upperclassmen, but in the final analysis it represents the opinion of only one person: the editor. That one person, in a month’s time, has had a lot to say about the things that he personally thinks are wrong with Davidson College. He has criticized just about everybody in the process: students, trustees, faculty. He will continue to do so, too, no matter how people take it. THE DAVIDSONIAN is, after all, a newspaper. It has a job—a compelling duty—to print the news as it sees fit, to be a wailing wall, to raise hell. To do anything less would constitute treason to the principles of good journalism and a disservice to Davidson College.

Editor’s Role

The function of an editor is to express an opinion which the reader can judge. And that function is properly performed only if the opinion is an honest one. The minute an editor withholds an opinion for fear that someone may think it “irresponsible” or that he may be “out of step with the times” he ceases to perform his function.
—Vermont Royster, Editor, The Wall Street Journal

Opening Up

The flap over who's to control Lingle Manor now that it’s in disuse brings to mind a rather serious deficiency: there is no suitable place for late night studying here. The Union Board and Freshman Council, both politicking for control of the Manor, have indicated that they’d like to use it, among other things, for just such a purpose. So far, though, nobody’s won out. The fact of the matter is, there are other campus facilities infinitely more suitable for the role: namely, the College Union. As the Union itself says, it’s “for the students.” Why not make it “for the students” around the clock? It’s ideal. Students could study there, type papers there, shoot the bull there—without disrupting the peace and quiet back in the dormitories. Furthermore, there would be somebody on duty all night to take any important phone calls that now go unanswered. The Union staff has indicated that it’s willing to carry out the change. Apparently all that’s lacking is a little of what talks: money. The change we ask is not much. It’s just a little something the administration could do that would make student life here a little more bearable.

The Fund Drive’s Flop

The disappointing outcome of the Negro scholarship fund drive is as ironic as it is tragic. It is ironic because some of the very students you would expect to support it haven't. It is tragic because the Davidson student body is passing up a chance to do what nobody else around here has been willing to do: show a genuine interest in having more Negro students. To the project’s surprising opponents and newly found allies of the rednecks—a number of members of the so-called activist wing—we say this: Sure, there are a lot of things wrong with both the philosophy and practicality of the project. It is hypocritical, in a way, to go out raising money for Negro students when just across the street a double standard exists. And the idea does sound like “buying a Negro,” in a way. But we've got to start somewhere. It’s abundantly clear that the college is not going to do it. It’s not buying a Negro. Not really. Admittedly, it will bring only one Negro student at first. But it could also prompt a recruiting program, convince foundations to invest here, and prod the Admissions Office into action. If nothing else, it will show that students really do want Negroes as well as rednecks in the student body. What have we got to lose anyway?

Dr. King’s Dream

Dr. Martin Luther King has been dead a month now. The uproar has died down. The newspapers and magazines are no longer plastering pictures of him and his widow on the covers and front pages. But his cause and ideas have not been forgotten, nor will they be any time soon. The true test of greatness lies not in the publicity or emotion which surrounded his death, but in the response of the American public to the challenge he offered. Dr. King realized he was riding the wave of the future, that he would have to change the attitude of a “racist nation,” but he undertook the task willingly and zealously. The obvious question now for the civil rights movement is, where to? What next? Sadly enough, the initial response was the same lack of restraint which cost Dr. King his life. Instead of uniting blacks and whites in “the cause,” the looters provoked the alienation of many who want to help them. Before Negroes ever attain the rights they demand, they must prove that they are responsible. Just as they were about to reach this point through the work of Dr. King and his compatriots, a few radicals have begun to change people’s minds by tearing apart the cities. Until the power of the idea begins to prevail over the power of the gun; until the sincere majority learns to control the rowdy minority, Dr. King’s successors can expect to achieve only a minimum amount of success. “I have a dream...,” said Dr. King. It is up to all of us—black and white alike—to see that the same violence which wrecked our cities last summer does not recur. Only if we do this can we begin to progress again along the road to the equality and brotherhood of the races.

Peaceful Revolution

At Columbia University leaders announced that the grievances that precipitated last week’s seizure of five major university buildings had not been relieved. Today, student Meanwhile in Berlin, followers of Leftist student leader Rudi Dutschke battled with police for the second consecutive day near the wall.

Martin’s Retirement Signals Chance To Begin

By DAVID SWEATT Managing Editor

Davidson College needs a particular kind of man for its presidency. It needs a man of strong academic background who can bring creative guidance to the college as an intellectual community. Dr. D. Grier Martin's official announcement to the faculty of his decision to retire from the presidency seems to call for such a man. At that time Martin cited the end of the successful Ford Challenge campaign and the approval of the Blue Sky curriculum as a fitting climax to his 10-year presidency. But more than just a climax, those things signal the opportunity for a new beginning. Speaking thoughtfully of the future, Martin said: “I am certain that Davidson is on the threshold of probably the most important period in its history. I am deeply confident, too, that you will more than measure up to the tasks ahead. They will involve, as you know, the blending of all the traditional strength that is Davidson with the creative flexibility needed to make Davidson's future the profoundly exciting and inspiring story it can and must be.” It is to be hoped that next year will be more than just a shakedown cruise for the new curriculum. When Martin spoke of “creative flexibility” and a “profoundly exciting” future, it is unlikely he meant that the status quo was his idea of Davidson's highest point of achievement.

Let THE DAVIDSONIAN be a wailing wall. We welcome letters from any reader, on any subject. Letters received by 4 p.m. Wednesday will usually be printed in that week’s paper unless adequate space is not available—in which case the letter will be reserved for later publication. The editors reserve the right to make corrections for spelling.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

grammar and style, and to cut letters of more than 250 words.

Wailing Wall

Davidson has been, and is now, a good college. The good students continue to come, though perhaps in fewer numbers than in years past. The faculty is generally good, but considerably out of touch with its profession, out of touch with the ongoing developments in its own disciplines. In many respects Davidson's reputation is built on its students, while its teachers fade into professional oblivion in a schedule of committee meetings and community and church contributions. The faculty basks in its glory as a collection of great teachers while its contact with the academic mainstream wanes with the years. If the right man is chosen for the presidency, he will be a man of strong academic background, a man who possesses a tough-mindedness about his job and the job he must require of others. And if we are to be so fortunate as to get such a man, (indeed there are several on the list of Presbyterian all-stars being considered by the selection committee of the trustees) he will, by definition, not be a Davidson graduate. It's not reasonable to expect the favorite nephew, no matter how bright he is, to go back home to tell his uncles how to run the family business. For 50 years people have been thinking that Davidson was on the verge of really doing something. If there was ever a time to live up to the long-forecast prediction, this is it.

69 Reed Seniors To Resist Draft

To The Editor:

Many of the students graduating from college this spring will be drafted by the end of the summer. We, comprising 66 percent of the male seniors of Reed College, Portland, Oregon, will not serve in the armed forces of the United States. Our decision is irrevocable. Our consciences do not permit us to participate in this senseless and immoral war. We are sure that tens of thousands of students throughout the country will join us in resistance.

Gary Achziger
Alan Ackerman
And 67 other male seniors of Reed College

Thousands of British students jumbled London's Trafalgar Square this morning to protest U.S. policy in Vietnam. Sympathy demonstrations took place in Paris, New York, and Rome.

ID / every get on-campus by the way do you think I vinking?

A Whipping Post

By BOB REID
Associate Editor

AP Honor Bound

The results of THE DAVIDSONIAN’s Honor Code survey should have come as a surprise to no one except entering freshmen. Every system has its flaws, and no doubt Davidson’s honor system is no exception. But before some observers get overly shocked at the findings, I think they should consider a few points. For one thing, just because a substantial portion of the student body has committed an honor violation, critics cannot say the system does not work. Every student knows that crib sheets and ponies do not flood classrooms whenever a professor is absent from a review. And there are not many schools where a student can leave a room unlocked or a textbook unguarded. An honor system cannot be judged lacking if it is violated in part. Success need not be absolute. The best criterion for judging success is whether or not the system creates a climate of honor. I think it does here.

I have an idea that a large number of violations involve students’ failure to report suspects. The Honor Code states that failure to report an honor violation is itself a breach of the code. This portion, I feel, is in need of revision. For one thing, I do not feel that a man is dishonorable if he fails to report an offense. Society demands loyalty to friends and condemns the stoolie. This indoctrination begins in early life when children are admonished not to be tattle-tales. Even police informers are condemned by the law-abiding. I don’t think a student is dishonorable if he fails to report an offense. But the witness is dishonorable if he condones the violation. I think there are many students here who have seen violations committed and have failed to report them. But at the same time, I think most of those students did not approve of what they saw.

Perhaps the Honor Court ought to consider rewriting this provision to make students honor-bound only to ask violators to turn themselves in. Students would be duty-bound to turn in the offender themselves. If anyone thinks this would weaken the system, I think he should realize that as long as such a difficult point of honor is on the books, the code is being seriously weakened by the continued violation of this requirement.

Sorry you didn’t like the last column, Tom.

Mature Conduct

Each attitude causes and exacerbates the other. To be more specific, I would say that in many respects the senior here is more immature upon graduation than he was as an entering freshman. This is true for a number of reasons, and it certainly is not a situation unique to Davidson College. It springs largely from the fact that the student here is treated as an adult mainly in an intellectual, not in a social, sense. (Unfortunately many students are never pushed academically except in terms of pure drudgery: assignments are often purely mechanical.) On the other hand, the Davidson student's social life is a study in paradoxes: in the college community he is treated like a child, and he often reacts very predictably by being unmannerly and by dressing in a bizarre fashion; outside the college community he tends to become a citizen of the world, and there more often than not he deports himself responsibly. (This latter generalization is supported by the fact that Davidson students rarely become involved in the kind of sordidness and even absolute corruption that one finds today in many colleges throughout the land.)

One can say with great justice that the Davidson student can take his place as a responsible citizen in the college community by conducting himself in a mature manner; conversely, the faculty can encourage this maturity by treating the student as an adult unless he shows himself otherwise. For instance, the student who dresses and acts like a gentleman is more apt to be treated like one than his shaggy, comatose, boorish counterpart whose state may suggest that he is a bedlamite. If this example seems trivial, let me say in all seriousness that it is not and that civilization depends in large part upon such niceties. To take an example of great urgency at present, the student who drinks at home and abroad and conducts himself as an adult should be treated accordingly. The student who is rowdy and boisterous when he drinks, who consistently drinks too much, should be anathema to both his fellows and his teachers: there is no place for him in this college or any truly humane community.

I see the proposed code of conduct as offering the opportunity for a renewed and honest social life for the student here, and I believe the possibilities of this change are appreciably more significant than the curriculum revisions, important though they may be. I am hopeful that the Davidson student will be accorded his place as an adult in the college community—and that he will continue to hold that place through responsible behavior. (In some respects he is getting it today through mere assertion of good faith.) The privilege of status must always be based upon sane conduct: otherwise all will be chaos. Only under these circumstances can this college or any other give a full education with the idea of developing the whole man.