Page Four September 27, 1968

SCHOLARS ARRIVE

Richardson Scholars, Top Row, (l-r): Krishna Prasad Tewari, Michael Lunn, Nanno Kranenborg, Jorma-Jouko Norkela, Masafumi Ito, and Lopatinsky. Bottom Row, (l-r): Carlos Banda, Bjorn Bjarnason, Ralf Schaeffer, and Helmut Freudenthal.

Spencer Voices Opinions
(Continued From Page 1)

On the rumor that he refused the Blue Sky report: “Not true. I think it was long overdue. Any criticism I had was really that it in some ways didn’t go far enough.”

On the effect of the college's church commitment: “It doesn't stifle Davidson. The Christian commitment of the college emphasizes such things as concern for persons, a search for truth, and openness to the rights and dignity of other individuals. I just don't see how these things run counter to the values which I believe the vast majority of people at Davidson believe in.”

On student involvement: “We have to remember that people in a college administration or faculty have a continuing responsibility, while no student has more than a four-year responsibility. It is very difficult to delegate properly absolute authority and control to students who have only temporary responsibilities. But I certainly think students ought to have a voice.”

12 Richardson Scholars Join Davidson Students

The 12 Richardson Scholars attending Davidson this year represent a wide variety of interests and activities. The Richardson Scholar program has retained the Richardson name, although the Richardson Foundation withdrew its support last year.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, September 27
Morning: Free University Registration, Union

Saturday, September 28
Morning: Free University Registration, Gaiton
6 p.m.: Mixer with Converse, Morrison Room
8 p.m.: Movie “The Chase,” Morrison Room

Sunday, September 29
5 p.m.: Reception for new faculty, Chambers Dining Hall
7:30 p.m.: Worship Service, Lingle Chapel

Monday, September 30
4 p.m.: Freshman cake race, Soccer Field
9:30 p.m.: Tryouts for “Billy Budd,” Hodson Hall
8 p.m.: Philanthropic Society, Phi Hall
10 p.m.: Open End, Union Lobby

Tuesday, October 1
10 a.m.: Assembly, Love Auditorium
6:30 p.m.: Seminar on Poverty, Richardson Scholars
7 p.m.: Sigma Pi Sigma, Dana
7:30 p.m.: Tryouts for “Billy Budd,” Hodson Hall

Wednesday, October 2
10 a.m.: Film: “The Titan,” Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m.: New Cinema, Program One, Morrison Room
8:20 p.m.: YMCA Cabinet, Scott

Thursday, October 3
10 a.m.: Assembly (Undecided), Love Auditorium
8 p.m.: New Cinema: Program One, Morrison Room

Carlos Banda (Banda is his family name, which is placed in the middle in South America) is from Quito, Ecuador. He will play soccer, as did one of last year’s two Ecuadorians, Alfonso Castillo.

Pierre Barbeyrac comes from Thionville, France. Barbeyrac will not arrive until later in this quarter because he is taking exams which were postponed because of the French student riots.

Bjorn Bjarnason is a sociology student from Reykjavik, Iceland.

Maurice Fonten of Bamenda, West Cameroon, will not arrive until Sept. 30. Cameroon is southeast of Biafra and northwest of the Brazzaville Congo.

Helmut Freudenthal is from Neumunster, West Germany, and collects coins.

Masafumi Ito from Tokyo is interested in political science and international trade.

Nanno Albertus Kranenborg of Midwolda, The Netherlands, joins the Davidson tennis team. Kranenborg has played in several European tournaments.

Michael Lunn comes from Barnsley, Yorkshire, England, to study economics.

Jorma-Jouko Johannes Norkela is a Finn studying economics and sociology.

Campus Radio To Be FM
By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The proposed campus radio station made considerable progress recently by obtaining a chief engineer, two high-quality tape recorders, and a decision in favor of FM broadcast over AM.

Ed Dobbs, student director of the radio station, said Wednesday that the station had acquired the services of Rutledge Withers. Withers is chief engineer for WRKA in Charlotte and has served as a consultant to several Carolina radio stations.

Dobbs also said that the decision had definitely been made to broadcast on FM rather than on AM. “Mr. Withers advised us that we should broadcast on FM for several reasons,” Dobbs said. “He called FM the ‘wave of the future’ and said that manufacturers will soon be making only radios which have both AM and FM.”

“Also, FM has a lot clearer tone, with no static,” Dobbs added. “And Mr. Withers told us that college applications for AM stations to the Federal Communications Commission were simply being filed and would take a long time to be acted upon, while we could get an FM license relatively quickly.”

Earlier, the station secured two high-quality, $1500 tape recorders from Charlotte station WBT. “They were modernizing, and they decided to replace these two recorders with some slightly newer ones,” said Earl Lowrimore, associate director of the news bureau, who is in charge of the radio project for the college.

Lopatinsky - Norkela spent the summer working in an Arkansas Youth Camp and is the oldest, at 24, of the international students.

Ralf Willi Schaeffer comes from Muhlenweg, Germany, and plans a teaching career.

Iqbal Sultan of Karachi, Pakistan, plans to join the Pakistani foreign service.

Krishna Prasad Tewari of India taught Hindu to Peace Corps members this summer and may give a tutorial to a few Davidson students in that language.

Giant 2 ft. x 3 ft. only $1.95 (6.95 value)

Send any black & white or color photo (no negatives) and the name “Swingline” cut out from any Swingline package (or reasonable facsimile) to: POSTER-MART, P.O. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose $1.95 cash, check, or money order (no COD). Add sales tax where applicable. Poster rolled and mailed (postpaid) in sturdy tube. Original material returned undamaged. Satisfaction guaranteed.

Swingline Tot Stapler
Large Stapler only $1.49
Unconditionally guaranteed.guntatrsed. At any stationary, vericty, or bank vio. ~Sauieaglane! wa LONG ISLAND CITY, (LY, NEM “It is very difficult to delegate properly absolute authority and control to students who have only temporary responsibilities. But I certainly think students ought to have participation and voice in many areas of college policy.” On a system of self-scheduled exams: “We had them at Mary Baldwin, and on the basis of our experience there, I would certainly recommend them. Both students and faculty seemed to like it, and we had no trouble with it. Everybody testified to the fact that it seemed to lessen exam panic.” On the threat of ‘inbreeding’ in the faculty and administration: “In my individual case, I think the man is more important than the place he went to college. But Army To Relax Deferment Policy Seniors taking advanced ROTC will be assured of a deferment for graduate school next year in any field, Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, head of the ROTC Department, said Monday. “I anticipate no problems with seniors who are in the advanced program,” Outlaw said, “in regard to their getting graduate school deferments.” There are about 130 seniors taking ROTC. Those who are not taking ROTC will be subject to the draft, he said. This does not necessarily mean that they will be drafted, he explained, but simply that the local draft boards will be able to draft them. Students who are excluded from this draft status are those who are in any of the several fields of medicine and those who are studying in areas essential to national defense. He mentioned veterinary medicine, parts of the fields of medicine, and nuclear chemistry and physics as areas essential to national defense. He said pre-dentistry as well. MEET BILL TAYLOR He's Our New Career Bankers Life man in Davidson As the newest member of the Charlotte Agency, he has received training that will help him serve you. His training centered on teaching him that service to people is always our first consideration. Guided by such a philosophy, he can fit your personal insurance needs — professionally — from a wide variety of plans that are backed by the nationally recognized Bankers Life Company's reputation for good service and prompt claim payment. Once you know Bill Taylor, you will understand why we are proud to have him as a member of our organization. Call him in Davidson at 862-5861. William A. Chater Agency Manager Suite 106, 500 E. Morehead St., 173-6330 WANTED BY THE FOX DRIVE-IN A COMBO (or Combos) TO PLAY IN “THE RED FOX LOUNGE” located inside the Fox Drive-In Theater on Friday and Saturday from 8:00 p.m. until 12:00 midnight and on Sunday from 3:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m. For further information call Mr. W. F. Lemmond at 996-0115 or write him at Box 23006, Charlotte, N.C. ministerial students are usually deferred by draft boards. Last spring there was some question as to whether all the seniors taking ROTC would be deferred, as local Skippers do it! English Leather, For men who want to be where the action is. Very intrepid. Very masculine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the complete array of ENGLISH LEATHER men's toiletries. IN A CRISIS, it takes courage to be a leader... courage to speak out ... to point the way ... to say, “Follow Me!” In a crisis, it takes the kind of decisive action that comes from a man of sound instinct, as well as intelligence. If America is to survive this crisis ... if the youth of America are to inherit a sane and even promising world, we must have courageous, constructive leadership. The kind of leadership that only George C. Wallace—of all Presidential candidates—has to offer. That’s why young Americans who really think support Wallace. I don't think we want a situation in which all or a large majority of our faculty or administration people are from any one background—whether it be Davidson or Carolina or Southern, or whether it be one particular church or one particular this or that. And on the Board of Trustees: “There certainly might be a more effective way to choose trustees. The board might be a more effective board if it were reconstituted. For example, the variety in the way trustees are chosen and in the terms they serve often makes an efficient, smooth-running operation difficult.” LEARN TO DIVE A short course in Scuba Diving will soon be offered on Davidson Campus. Use of SCUBA textbook included with course. Students furnish own mask, fins and snorkel. All interested persons are invited to an open meeting to be held in the Green Room of the College Union at 7:00 P.M. on Thursday, Oct. 3. For additional information call Charlotte 233-5475 (Day) or JA3-4762 (Night). $20.00 SCUBATEER DIVER TRAINING Charlotte, N.C. 28209 WANTED BY RECORD CLUB OF AMERICA CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE TO EARN OVER $100 Write for information to: Mr. Ed Banovy, College Bureau Manager Record Club of America, Club Headquarters York, Pennsylvania 17461 WELCOME BACK TO DAVIDSON! We are ready to serve you. Press while you wait. The quickest dry cleaning and shirt laundry service in town. JACKSON CLEANERS Just beyond The Coffee Cup THEY KNOW that it takes courage to stand up for America against the pseudo-intellectual professors, the hippies, the press and the entire liberal Establishment. And they’ve got that courage. Thousands and thousands of tomorrow's leaders—the thinking young men and women of America who have courage and who are willing to act—are joining YOUTH FOR WALLACE. You should join, too. There are no dues. Send in the coupon to receive your membership card, the YFW Newsletter and a copy of “STAND UP FOR AMERICA,” the story of George C. Wallace. Youth for Wallace 1629 K St, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006 (202) 296-8192 C. Wallace for President Committee NAME ADDRESS CITY, STATE, ZIP