Page Six, March 1, 1988, The Davidsonian

LARGEST FIELD IN RECENT YEARS. Seven Candidates Explain Position

Hartsell Proposes Major Alterations

Major innovations characterize the platform of SGA presidential candidate Fletcher Hartsell. Among Hartsell’s proposals are a campus radio station run
by members of the student body, cooperation with other area colleges, a student fund to bail out arrested students, resident
psychologists to serve as student counselors, and a recruiting program for bringing qualified students from minority groups to Davidson. A
student-operated concert and lecture series financed by grants from foundations is another of Hartsell’s proposals. He also advocates an expanded
intramural program to compete with teams of the town of Davidson and to involve the college community in the affairs
of the town.

Hartsell wants to establish an experimental college which would give students non-credit seminars and courses which they cannot presently obtain
at Davidson. This college would be held in cooperation with Johnson C. Smith University, Queens College, and the University of
North Carolina at Charlotte. Hartsell is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, second vice president of the Student Council, and
chairman of the Bill of Rights subcommittee of the Constitution Revision Committee. He has been vice president of his sophomore
class and is presently chairman of the Davidson delegation to the state student legislature.

Leadership Need Serious--Smith

“In the position of president, it’s the development of an attitude of leadership which is more essential than any specifics
which a platform could include." This statement is the position of John Smith whose primary aim as president would be
“to instill a new attitude of cooperation between the student body and the college as an institution."

“As next year we're going to be minus a couple of administration members, it is essential that students take advantage
of positions which will enable contacts between the administration and the students to create a better understanding and avoid such
attacks as the recent one on Dean Burts,” Smith said. “I wish to continue the improvement in the relationship between
the faculty and student body which Tom Earnhardt has inaugurated," Smith added. Smith said that he had filed for the
presidency before he was aware that so many candidates were running. He added that he was glad to see that
such a strong slate of candidates has been established.

Williams Foresees New Ideas

John Williams, one of seven candidates for the office of Student Government Association president for 1968-69, foresees major changes in
the job of president. “Three of the most important things that the Student Government Association president will have to do
next year are organize the new SGA, deal with problems raised by the new curriculum, and discuss campus issues and
life with the new college president so that he can get a perspective of life at Davidson," Williams said.

Williams said that his platform consists of two main points: maintaining dialogue between the faculty, trustees, administration, and the student
body; and enabling the student government to gain the respect of the student body. Williams said he planned to do
the first by means of increased student participation in faculty committees and faculty participation in student committees and by retaining
campus meetings, such as the one held several weeks ago with Deans Richard C. Burts and Frontis W. Johnston and
Trustee William White. Williams has served as THE DAVIDSONIAN reporter to Student Council meetings this year and has been a
reporter for three years. He served in YMCA tutorial work for two years and is a member of Stimulys and
Pi Kappa Alpha.

Orienting, Adjusting

Dave Clemmons, candidate for student body president, believes that the most important task for next year's president will be helping
the new college president adjust and orient himself to Davidson. “The student body president will have to be able to
relate to the new college president,” he said. Another issue Clemmons feels will be of importance is the new code
of student conduct presently being created by the Committee on Rules And Punishments (CRAP). Clemmons, a member of the committee,
expects the new regulations to place more responsibility on students for their behavior. He also wants Davidson to have a
symposium like the IMPACT symposium being held this year at Vanderbilt, to which this year’s Student Council is sending five
Davidson delegates.

Clemmons, who transferred to Davidson last year from Vanderbilt, feels he is well suited to organize such a symposium, since
he was a member of the committee at Vanderbilt which organized the symposium of two years ago. “I also feel
that the new SGA president will have to set precedents for the implementation of the new constitution,” Clemmons said. Clemmons,
a Sigma Chi and fraternity rush chairman, was president of his freshman class at Vanderbilt.

The Next President

Seven names will be on the presidential ballot Wednesday when the Davidson student body goes to the polls. A brief
sketch of each candidate's plans is presented on this page. The stories were written by Staff Writer Dick Anderson. Photos
were taken by Bill Olson and Bob McKellar.

Forbid Students Lying, Trice Says

The Honor System should be changed so as to forbid students to lie in any circumstances. This is one of
the main planks in Ashton Trice's platform which also recommends changes in the punishment policy of the Honor Code in
order to make punishment commensurate with the seriousness of the offense. “I think that the degree to which a crime
endangers the college system should determine the severity of the punishment." Trice also lists two other basic proposals. The first
is to continue the Committee on Rules and Punishments (CRAP) and expand its membership, despite the fact that it will
have already made its report by next year. He denied reports that he was opposed to either voluntary ROTC or
subsidized athletics and termed a rumor that he wished to abolish student government “absolutely false.”

Frank Murphy Plans Moderation

Frank Murphy, president of the Junior Class, is basing his platform on a concept of moderation. He hopes to bring
about a modification in the present drinking rule to allow drinking in specified areas of the campus. He also hopes
to change the present dormitory rules to allow open dormitories at certain hours and to bring about improvements in the
dorms themselves. The concept which underlies all of his platform is integrating the social and academic areas of Davidson life.
Major problems next year, Murphy feels, will be working with the new president of the college, initiating the Blue Sky
changes, working for a new drinking policy, and enacting the recommendations of the Committee on Rules and Punishments.

Murphy, a member of Phi Delta Theta, was president of his sophomore class. He was a member of the committee
for the Residence Hall Association and the student recruitment committee and is a varsity baseball player.

Newspaper Candidates Take Positions

The student newspaper at Carolina a few years back ran on the solemn slogan that its job was “to print
the news and raise hell.” That, in brief, should be the role of THE DAVIDSONIAN. THE DAVIDSONIAN — believe it
or not — is a very good small college newspaper. Its consistent award-winning proves as much. But it can be
better. THE DAVIDSONIAN needs more readability. It is often dull and lifeless, for it is dealing with a generally dull
campus and is read by generally apathetic students. THE DAVIDSONIAN needs more reliability. It is all too often inaccurate.DAVIDSONIAN needs
a better organized and coordinated staff to ensure this reliability and to create a more readable newspaper. This newspaper should
not be so much a one-man show. Therefore, I will work to create:
- A vigorous, constructive editorial policy in which no toes will be safe from being stepped on. I will continue
and expand the present editor’s editorial board to assist in writing editorials and shaping overall policy.
- Objective, accurate news pages. Emphasis will be placed on in-depth reporting of both campus and beyond-campus issues, and a
team of experienced, conscientious reporters will be formed to ensure more complete coverage of campus affairs.
- Entertaining, informative features, including more “brites” and human interest material on the news pages.
- More colorful sports pages. The paper's sports pages should follow the format of an afternoon daily, that is, they
should contain more personality features and behind-the-scenes stories.

THE DAVIDSONIAN can be made more reliable and more readable without becoming a scandal sheet. I believe I can do
it. I submit three years’ experience on this newspaper as a reporter, news editor, and managing editor, plus two summers’
professional newspaper experience, as an indication of my eagerness and ability to edit a newspaper that the student body will
want to read.

Jasper

QUALIFICATIONS: NONE! I have no qualifications whatever for this office... none at all. In fact, if I am elected (and
stranger things have happened) I will delegate everything except the responsibility of the office and the editorials to my opponents.

WHY AM I RUNNING? Because I feel that in the three years that I have been at Davidson, THE DAVIDSONIAN
has done little more than alienate fraternity men, unsuccessfully try to mirror student sentiment, and stay out of trouble. If
I am elected, the following will be the stand of the 1968-1969 DAVIDSONIAN:
1. We know we drink on campus, the faculty knows we drink on campus, and Ranger Smith knows we drink
on campus. Therefore, there will be a front-page headline editorial until realism returns to Davidson.
2. Until a better plan is presented, for the first time in memory, THE DAVIDSONIAN will not be anti-fraternity.
3. “Specific disciplinary actions are more likely to evoke a thoughtful, considered response from other students if they have confidence
that college authorities will attempt to make fair and intelligent judgments.” That just about covers the position in regard to
the Dean of Students.
4. The Davidson Student Government Association will be supported as an instrument of the students and THE DAVIDSONIAN will once
again reflect the opinion of the majority of students in its editorials; however, guest columnists will present their views in
a format similar to “POST” magazine.
5. Apathy is the keynote that will be presented so many times during the next two months of elections that
you'll want to puke. Therefore, no editorials will be run concerning the apathy of Davidson students.
6. Such things as open dormitories (not as bad as it sounds, Mom!), abolition of fraternity house curfews, and easier
conditions for rooming off-campus will be campaigned for in cooperation with the SGA.
7. Why not bring the wailing wall where it will be seen by all the students... to the paper.
8. LET'S STIR UP A HORNET'S NEST ABOUT WHAT WE WANT AND NOT RE-ELECT ONLY THE VIEWS OF WHAT THE
FACULTY WILL LET US HAVE!

So if you're interested, I'll be happy to have your vote and if you just don’t give a damn I'll
be glad to take your vote too... I ain't proud.

Reid

A student newspaper should be more than an announcement sheet and more than the tool of a small number of
students. Rather, it should be a positive force in the life of the school. To do this, it must report
in detail the issues which affect the life of the college and must campaign vigorously for student rights. From the
editorial columns, this newspaper should take the initiative in petitioning administration, trustees, and student government for reforms, such as modification
of the drinking rule, increased student representation on faculty committees, and formation of joint student-trustee committees to meet regularly to
discuss campus life.

On the news and feature pages, this newspaper needs to print lively, informative reports on campus and national issues which
affect students. Examples of this include draft law revisions and the work of the Committee on Rules and Punishment. Too
often THE DAVIDSONIAN has given surface treatment to these important topics.

Sports should not remain a neglected department on this newspaper. The staff should be enlarged so the sports editor can
give the readers more color feature stories rather than rehash old games. Coverage of intramural sports should be enlarged, too.
Also, THE DAVIDSONIAN must remain an independent force in campus life, and must not fall under control of special interest
cliques. This independence must always be maintained.

Finally, this newspaper needs to become a vigorous, useful force in the life of this campus. THE DAVIDSONIAN needs to
be jolted into action. Unless this happens, reading this newspaper will become as worthless an exercise as attending compulsory vespers.

My experience as reporter, assistant sports editor, sports editor, and managing editor plus two summers’ work on professional newspapers and
part-time work as a writer for United Press International, will, I feel, enable me to present an exciting, forceful newspaper.

Presidency

Joe Murphy: Need To Be ‘Forceful’

“What I want to do is get someone forceful as president of the student body,” Joe Murphy said. Murphy, a
candidate for the presidency, believes that the major problem with this year’s Student Council was that “we would bring up
an issue, then we would form a committee to study it, and the committee would recommend its findings to a
faculty committee, where the issue would get lost.”

Open dorms, drinking on campus, and being able to schedule one's own exams are three other proposals in Murphy's campaign.
“These things are sort of basics,” he said. “I would also like to have a student present at every faculty
meeting and a faculty member present at important student government meetings.”

Murphy, who fulfilled his last campaign promise of getting vending machines in every dormitory, also worked to secure more physical
education cuts for freshmen and sophomores. He is the Student Council representative from the junior class and is a member
of the Committee on Rules and Punishments. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Pipe Smoker (and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
miche
375-9723
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

UNLIMITED!!!

PROSPECTIVE GRADUATES
DID YOU KNOW...
The S.S. Kresge Company is the fastest growing major retailer in the world.
The S.S. Kresge Company has over 950 stores located in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico.
The S.S. Kresge Company tripled its sales in the last 9 years and has doubled its sales in the last
3 years. ($1,090,000,000—1966)
The S.S. Kresge Company has opened over 216 K mart Discount Department Stores since March of 1962.

THIS MEANS...
Challenge! Opportunity! and Fulfillment!
STORE MANAGEMENT and EXECUTIVE POSITIONS reached in RECORD TIME!

—WRITE TO—
J. R. Lynch
2581 Piedmont Road NE.
Atlanta, Georgia, 30324

JUPITER
K MART
Divisions of the S.S. Kresge Company
An Equal Opportunity Employer
