Friday, November 22
10:10 a.m. Assembly
8 p.m. Stammtisch

Saturday, November 23
8 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. Vanderbilt
10 p.m. Concert/Dance: "The Drifters"

Sunday, November 24
7 p.m. Movie: "To Sir with Love"

Monday, November 25
8:15 p.m. Philanthropic Society

Tuesday, November 26
10 a.m. Assembly
8 p.m. Davidson Wind Ensemble
9:30 p.m. Civil Liberties Discussion, Organizational Meeting

Wednesday, November 27 - Sunday, December 1
Thanksgiving Recess

By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

Davidson may be more capable of competing for top talent in the multi-million dollar entertainment business through its membership in
the relatively young National Entertainment Conference (NEC), according to Social Council Chairman Charlie Cameron. NEC was started in 1960 in
North Carolina by a group of educators who were concerned about the rising cost of entertainment and the problems schools
faced in presenting talent on campus. From eight schools, including Davidson, and five booking agents in 1962, NEC has now
grown to over 125 schools and 55 agents. The 12 board members of the NEC include C. Shaw Smith, director
of the College Union, one of the original planners of the conference, and Ed Embree, president of the Union Board.

The most crucial problem Davidson faces is that of skyrocketing prices for entertainment, Cameron said. “In six months, the Chambers
Brothers’ price went from $2,000 to $10,000. The Fifth Dimension, after two hits and an album, went from $1,500 to
$5,000 per performance.” Since Dionne Warwick was at Davidson in 1966, he said, her price has increased significantly.

Change In Chapel Regulations
By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

The Senate Committee on Chapel sessions submitted a three-point recommendation for reform to the Senate Tuesday night. The committee proposed
that assembly sessions at Davidson be reduced to eight per quarter, to include four outside speakers and four school-related assemblies,
and that student cuts for assembly sessions be increased to 50 percent of all scheduled programs. In addition, the panel
suggested that a committee consisting of two senators, two members of the Union board, two students at large, the college
chaplain, and a faculty member, be formed “to actively solicit quality speakers and plan and coordinate the overall assembly program.”
These recommendations, if passed, would go into effect in the spring quarter of this year.

One of the main considerations that influenced the committee in its recommendation on the number of assemblies to be held
was the financial one. Presently, speakers receive a $100 honorarium plus travel expenses as a part of their pay. By
reducing the number of outside speakers to four per quarter, the honorarium could be raised to $250. Another possibility introduced
by the reduction in the number of outside speakers would be that the speaker funds could then be combined with
funds available through already established lecture series.

In regard to cuts, the committee recognized that many speakers are hesitant to visit a campus the size of Davidson
unless they are guaranteed of reaching a reasonably sizeable audience. However, it was felt that requiring attendance at four out
of the eight scheduled meetings would guarantee the speaker a good chance of reaching 500 people at any chapel. Under
the present system, 16 chapel sessions are planned for each term, eight of which are programs with outside speakers.

Group May Call For Referendum
By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Davidson's Five-Year Plan Committee met again this week in an attempt to decide how to present its findings most effectively.
The committee, sanctioned by the SGA Senate, is attempting to formulate a plan for aiding potentially bright students who are
hampered by cultural deficiencies. According to George Robinson, chairman of the committee, the group intends to present its report to
the newly-formed Spencer Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities. However, Robinson said that a meeting date for such a presentation was still
uncertain. “We are attempting to develop means for widely publicizing the report, particularly since we would like to hold a
student referendum on the issue in the spring,” Robinson said. One possibility mentioned was the chance of bringing faculty and
students to Davidson from colleges which have developed programs for the able poor, such as Antioch and Dartmouth.

GEORGE ROBINSON readies presentation

IFC Sets Regulations For Formal Rush Period
By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council established this year's periods of silence and closed dorm policies for rush and heard a report on
the legality of selling alcoholic beverages in fraternity houses last Tuesday night. To eliminate all unnecessary pressure on freshmen, the
freshmen dorms will be closed to fraternity men starting Sunday, Dec. 6, at 7:30 p.m. and continuing through rush. Rush
begins Jan. 9. A period of silence will beImposed beginning at 10 p.m. Dec. 8. Any rides must be cleared
through Marshall Guill. Rush this year will be held on Thursday and Friday nights, and Saturday and Sunday afternoons, Jan.
9-12. Registration for rush is Dec. 5. Date cards will be issued on Jan. 6. A period of silence will
be imposed on Jan. 7.

Another problem is the limited facilities at Davidson. Most entertainers perform for a guaranteed price of 60 percent of the
gate receipts, or more. “Why should the Temptations come here to the 1,200-seat Love Auditorium when they could conceivably fill
a 10,000-seat gymnasium at the University of North Carolina?” Embree said. “Over the summer we talked about improving the Johnston
gym, which holds three times as many people as Love Auditorium. However, we could not get sufficient funds from the
college administration for anything more than a rudimentary study of the acoustics. It is extremely hard to find a group
which will do two 45-minute shows. This means that we have to find an additional group to perform in the
same concert.”

The NEC sends out a newsletter to its members which includes general information such as performance reports on certain campuses.
“We can find out artists’ tour schedules, what type of reception they received from college audiences, their current price range,
whether or not they showed or were late in arriving, and whether the college which sponsored them would like to
have them back,” Embree said.

Bill Armstrong, legal adviser to Davidson, told the IFC that the sale of alcoholic beverages in a fraternity house violates
North Carolina law. Armstrong said that fraternities could have beer coolers if the beer is bought and kept on an
individual basis. Buying beer from a fraternity brother is not legal. He said also that non-profit beer sales are illegal.

The NEC is the only information, communication, and booking service run exclusively by university personnel; the only national, non-profit organization
which deals solely with entertainment problems, according to the NEC brochure.

A Christmas raffle, with the proceeds going to the Wallace Village for children, will be held here the week after
Thanksgiving, Dec. 6. Sponsored by Sigma Chi fraternity and held in cooperation with John Mack and Son, a sportscoat or
its equivalent in merchandise will be raffled to the student body. Tickets will be available starting Dec. 2, at 50
cents apiece. The drawing will be held in the College Union.

The Wallace Village for mentally handicapped children is located in Broomfield, Col. It is dedicated to the rehabilitation of children
with minimal brain damage.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

BUCKET SPECIAL $4.85 plus Tax
15 Pieces Chicken
1 Qt. Potatoes
1 Pt. Gravy
18 Rolls
1 Pt. Slaw
Food For Saturday Night Supper
503 S. Broad St.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Cashion Gulf Service
Complete Auto Service
Phone 892-9306
Open 6:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Underwear For College Men
Dragged down by exam cram? Bugged by a roommate? Fed up with dorm meals? Escape from the ordinary. Escape in
an Olds Cutlass S. With a Rocket 350 V-8 your escape will be quick and easy. And economical. Or order
it up with a console-mounted Hurst Shifter, and really get in sync with what's happening. Or better yet, go directly
to the head of the class with W-31 Force-Air Induction and put everybody down. Custom Sport Wheels, GT stripes, buckets—you
can get as far from the ordinary as you care to go. The main thing is to escape, baby. And
there's only one way to go. Cutlass S. The Escapemobile.

THIS IS IT! by Jockey-Life
Jockey Boxer Shorts. Solids and Patterns 1.50
Jockey Briefs 1.25 and 1.75
Jockey T-Shirts Tapered Brute, Hi-neck, or V-neck 1.50
See Our Clothing for the pace-setting traditionalist
Johnie & Gon
Our 56th Year
Mooresville
