Charleston Scuttles Sailors

Davidson's Wildcat sailors finished in fourth place, five and a half points behind the winning College of Charleston, in the University of South Carolina Invitational Regatta, held on Lake Murray, S.C., Saturday. The ‘Cats, led by team captain Tom Kirtley and James Lee, were in first place after eight races of a ten-race series. However, a later disqualification from the sixth race and a pair of fourth-place finishes in the last two races hurt their overall standing. The protest committee disqualified them at a meeting held after the tenth race. The foul involved a collision between a Davidson and a USC boat rounding a mark midway through the sixth race. Kirtley, crewed for by freshman Roger Powell, turned in two first places and a third. Lee, crewed for by freshman John Moore, had a first and a second-place finish. The ‘Cats were handicapped because they were sailing Penguins, instead of their own Jet-14 class boats. The South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association, of which Davidson is a member, sanctioned the regatta. The next sanctioned regatta will be a team race with USC at the Davidson lake campus at 9:30 a.m. Saturday, March.

SYNCHRONIZED START

100-yard dash entrants blast off the blocks.

Praay Leads SAE’s To IMAC Track Win

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, paced by the three-way individual performance of sophomore Glenn Praay, swept fraternity competition in Thursday's IMAC track meet. Cannon II easily won freshmen competition. Praay was the most outstanding individual performer of the wind-blown, cold-swept meet, as he won the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, and broad jump competition. The SAE’s led fraternity scoring with 28 points. Runner-up Phi Delta Theta picked up 25 points, as Sigma Chi placed third with 24. Following them were Pi Kappa Alpha with 14, Pi Kappa Phi with 11, Kappa Sigma with eight, Kappa Alpha and Beta Theta Pi with five, and Phi Gamma Delta with one point. Finals were completed Thursday afternoon following Wednesday's qualifying round. The weather, which played a big factor in times, changed from very windy on Wednesday to very chilly on Thursday, and numerous participants complained of leg cramps due to the cold. Praay outdistanced Sigma Chi's Mike Thornton to win the 100-yard dash, and then returned to defeat Thornton’s teammate Bobby Pryor in the 220. His winning times for the two races were 10.6 and 24.1. In the broad jump, Praay easily defeated second-place Carl Salter of the Phi Delts with a best jump of 21 feet, 6 3/4 inches. Dan Herd of Kappa Alpha outran the Pikas’ Fred Lowrance in the 3/4 mile run, with a winning time of 3:32.0. Ed Bartle of the Delts won the 660-yard run in 1:36.4 to defeat the Kappa Sigs’ Eadie Rice. Rice came back in the 440-yard dash to tie the Pi Kapps’ John Flowers with a time of 57.0. Covey Carter of the SAE’s topped Joe Kilpatrick of the Delts in the 120 low hurdles with a time of 14.4. In the field events, Pika Tom Baker, Beta Mike Culbreth, and Machi Mike Dickens won separate events. Baker took the shot put with a throw of 47'8". Culbreth edged by Phi Delt Blake Goslen with a 112' 10 1/2" toss. Dickens jumped 5'6" to win the high jump.

Leight, Spann To Lead Golfers In First Match

In its annual opening match against George Washington, Furman, and The Citadel, the Davidson golf team opens its new season Monday. The match, which will be scored as three dual matches, will be played at the Dunes Club in Myrtle Beach. Golf coach Dr. Tom Scott said that the Wildcat golfers have won this opening event for the past several years. Expressing his confidence in the top-seeded Davidson players, Scott said that the match Monday will be a good test to determine who will play in the lower positions this season. Six players will participate in the competition. George Leight, a veteran from last year’s team, will play number one. Mike Spann, last season's Southern Conference medalist, will play number two in this first match. Johnny Giles will play number three, while Carey Hite will play in the fourth position. Bruce Vanderbloemen, sophomore Danny White, and freshman Doug Clark will compete for the lower two positions in a practice round Sunday.

POOLING THEIR EFFORTS

Cries of anguish were heard in the post office this morning as subscribers to Sports Illustrated discovered a picture of Davidson's Mike Maloy and a story picking Davidson over Columbia tonight. The disturbing factor was the remembrance of the last time Davidson was featured in SI—the day of a big 1965 game with St. Joseph’s. Davidson, picked number one in the country by SI, proceeded to lose to St. Joe. The hope this morning was that the SI hex would be broken.

Relay member disqualified for leaving blocks too soon.

‘Catfish Bring Up Rear; ECU, WVU Steal Show

East Carolina University edged West Virginia to win the Southern Conference swimming match last weekend. Davidson finished last in the six-team field. Despite the low finish, the ‘Catfish swam well enough to break several school records in the season closeout. Davidson finished only one point behind The Citadel. Coach Tom Stevens pointed out that the team would have beaten the Bulldogs except for a disqualification in the 800-yard freestyle relay. One of the members of the relay team left the starting block before his teammate had touched out, causing the disqualification. In that race, the relay team broke the Davidson school record for that event by 42 seconds, but the record cannot be considered official. Jack Steele, whose 6 1/2 points paced the ‘Catfish effort, broke two school records in the meet. His time of 5:24.9 was good enough to set a record in the 500-yard freestyle, but not good enough for him to qualify for the finals. He added a school record in the 200-yard freestyle with a 1:54.3 time. Bill Woodson broke records in the 200-yard individual medley and the 1650-yard freestyle. The 400-yard freestyle relay team made up of Steele, Woodson, Ed Bartle, and Mac Davis broke the school record in that event. “Our boys swam really well,” Stevens said. “But the times for the meet were much better than I had expected.” He added that the conference is getting stronger each year in swimming, with more schools subsidizing their teams.

In freshman competition, Cannon II’s 45 1/2 points easily outdistanced second place Watts, which picked up 28 points. East I was third with 23 1/2, followed by East II with 13, and Cannon I with nine. The outstanding freshman performance was turned in by Billy Pierce, who won the 3/4-mile run, the 660-yard run, and the broad jump. Pierce ran the 3/4-mile in 3:40.8 and the 660 in 1:33, and took the broad jump with an effort of 18'11". Watts’ Clay Dorminey won the 100-yard dash in 10.8, and East II's Jack Ballenger took the 220 in 24.9. East I's Rick Hawarah led the low hurdles field with a 13.9 clocking, while East II's Dan Mockebee took the 440 in 55.4. Leonard Baugham of Cannon II picked up two field wins with efforts of 46'6" in the shot and 95' 3 1/4" in the discus.Tom Maxwell made it a Cannon II sweep of the field events with a 5'9" winning high jump. For the year the ‘Catfish broke every school record but four. Only Eddie Beach, Joe Friebele, and Larry Eckman will graduate from this season’s 4-5 swimmers. Send check sure to include postage or bank sales Retisiection THE MOPP CO. P. O. Box 10823 Lense STUMITA, GA. The Davidsonian March 15, 1968 Page Five

Trophy-Winning Drop ’Cats Finish With Perfect Mark

Bob Stone's Drop ‘Cats, the Charlotte Industrial League team made up of Davidson basketball “has beens,” rounded out a perfect season this week. The win upped the team’s record to 13-0 for the season, and won for them two trophies for league play championships.

“We just played to have a good time,” said team member Pinky Hatcher of the team which won its first game of the season by a margin of more than 100 points. “We feel that a large part of the success of our season was due to our conditioning program,” Cecil Clifton, another Drop ‘Cat added. “Many games are won in the second half,” he said, “and we feel that our conditioning allowed us to pull some out late in the game.”

Records for the team seem to be lost in the annals of the Charlotte Recreation Department, so no statistics are available. However, Hatcher noted that “everyone shot when they had the chance, and scoring was quite evenly distributed among the team.” The team, besides Clifton and Hatcher, included Johnny Baker, George Leight, Ron Hunt, Mike Dickens, and Geoff Birkhead.

Several members of the squad noted that competition became better throughout the season, and that consequently scores became closer. The opposition for the Drop ‘Cats was provided by such teams as Piedmont Poultry, Better TV, Zeb's Team, the Bouligny Warriors, and Home.

‘Cat Nine Begins Baseball Season

For the past several weeks Davidson's baseball team has been undergoing intensive practice and conditioning. Today they met a strong club from Pfeiffer College to see if they could coordinate their potential and training for a win. The ‘Cats have been developing during the pre-season under the coaching of Bob Brown, who gave them the strenuous workout that Davidson baseball needs. The regular baseball coach Tom Stevens, has just rejoined the team this week, after the completion of the varsity swimming season. After two days of practice, he picked eighteen of the twenty-seven men as those who would dress for the game. With the addition of many talented freshmen, the ‘Cats will be two players deep at each position. In order to get a good look at everybody, Stevens planned to let all the pitchers work in the first.

All-IMAC Hoopsters Announced

The Intramural Athletic Council this week named its 1967-68 All-IMAC Basketball team. IMAC President Doug Rhymes announced the team this week. The team, which included members of eight fraternities, was selected by vote of participating players in the IMAC competition. Named to the first team were Tom Clayton of Sigma Chi, Cecil Clifton of Alpha Tau Omega, Pinky Hatcher of Kappa Alpha, George Leight of Phi Delta Theta, and Bruce Weidner of Sigma Nu. The second team included Johnny Baker of Beta Theta Pi, Geoff Birkhead of Alpha Tau Omega, Charlie Brockwell of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Ron Hunt of Phi Delta Theta, and Doug Rhymes of Phi Gamma Delta.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

Veteran Macky Reavis will probably start, backed up by Clark “Lefty” Nickerson and Johnny Riggs. This probably will be an exhibition-type ball game, since Stevens will be rotating players at many of the positions. Stevens believes that once he has become acquainted with the capabilities of his team, the won-lost record should improve from last year's 3-20 mark. Stevens has expressed his appreciation to Brown for his pre-season work with the team.

Beneficial Finance

The tallest Drop ‘Cat, 6’7” Mike Dickens, drew special attention from members of other teams. Dubbed the “league clown” by opposing players, he livened the league all season with his antics. “He certainly wasn't the most popular player in the league all season with his antics,” said Hatcher, “but he did attract a lot of attention. He was a real buffoon.”

In reference to future games for the Drop ‘Cats, Hatcher said that no definite plans have been made. “There was talk of a state tournament, but no one seems to know anything about it,” he added. “We have heard that teams from other parts of the state want to play us,” he said, “but there has been no official contact made.”

GEORGE BERNER STRETCHES FOR POINT

Flashy Finn paces 9-0 tennis triumph.

Netters Breeze To Win Over East Stroudsburg

Coach Harry Fogleman’s tennis team swept every match from East Stroudsburg State Teachers College to win its first tennis match of the season, 9-0. The match was played on the Davidson courts under severe weather conditions. Temperatures of 40 degrees and less and gusty winds led Fogleman to describe the day as one of the worst tennis days he has seen while at Davidson.

George Berner, top-seeded Davidson singles player, got off to a strange start in his match. He won the first three games of the first set without yielding a point, then lost six consecutive games to drop the set. He came back, however, to win the next two sets 6-0, 6-1. Sam Hatcher downed his second-seeded opponent in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. Dan Hearon won the number three match 7-5, 7-5. Woody Faulk had little trouble disposing of his opponent in the number four event. Faulk won 6-0, 6-3. It took fifth-ranked Randy Jones three sets to win his match. Freshman James Cantrell breezed to a 6-0, 6-0 win in the number six singles match.

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Berner and Hatcher teamed up to crush East Stroudsburg’s first doubles team 6-0, 6-0. Hearon and Jones had little more trouble in their 6-0, 6-3 win in the number two doubles. Faulk and Cantrell lost an 8-10 set in between two wins, adding the ninth win of the Wildcats for the afternoon.

“I thought the first and second doubles teams looked good,” Fogleman said, “but our number three team needs work.” He added that all the boys did a good job of playing in such poor weather.

Monday the netters journey to Clinton, S. C., where they will meet a tough Presbyterian College team. The Blue Hose have three brothers from South America, the Amaya brothers. All three are on tennis scholarships.

EXECUTIVE TRAINEES
CAREER OPPORTUNITY UNLIMITED!!!

PROSPECTIVE GRADUATES DID YOU KNOW...

The S. S. Kresge Company is the fastest growing major retailer in the world. The S. S. Kresge Company has over 950 stores located in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. The S. S. Kresge Company tripled its sales in the last 9 years and has doubled its sales in the last 3 years. ($1,090,000,000—1966) The S. S. Kresge Company has opened over 216 Kmart Discount Department Stores since March of 1962.

THIS MEANS... Challenge! Opportunity! and Fulfillment! STORE MANAGEMENT and EXECUTIVE POSITIONS reached in RECORD TIME!

—WRITE TO—
J. R. Lynch
2581 Piedmont Road, N. E.
Atlanta, Georgia, 30324

JUPITER
Kmart Divisions of the S. S. Kresge Company
An Equal Opportunity Employer