MINISTER BLASTS CRAP REPORT (SEE PAGE TWO)

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

From the window in the office of the president of Davidson College, you can't see far. Shrubbery blocks the view.
And for the new man inside the office, it is also hard at this point to see far into the
college’s future. His novelty limits his vision.

“I am very new here,” Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. says. “There are so many things about Davidson College I
don't know enough about to be pontificating on yet. I don’t want to cross lines before I even know what
the lines are, and I don’t want to prejudice what any of us might do about sensitive areas before I
have a chance to take stock.”

Spencer To Be Installed

When Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. takes office as Davidson's 14th president at Homecoming Oct. 11, the ceremony will break
with the usual pattern for inaugurations of college presidents.

“It will be a simple installation service, in place of a formal inauguration,” said Dr. Spencer. The president must affirm
his acceptance of “Davidson College as an institution committed to academic excellence and the Christian faith” when he answers the
series of three questions that allow trustee President Walter Lingle to declare him installed. The other two questions require that
Dr. Spencer accept the office as a sacred trust, and that he be “faithful and diligent in promoting the welfare
and development of the college as an institution of Christian learning.”

“I will then say some things about my own attitudes towards some of the problems here, though... without the presumption
of trying to set forth specific programs,” said Dr. Spencer.

Dr. Spencer said the ceremony would be in Spencer Love Auditorium, and that students, faculty, trustees, and staff would all
be invited. Normally, the inauguration of a new president is the event of the year at a college, with presidents
of many surrounding colleges either attending or joining in the ceremonies.

STAFF MEETING

THE DAVIDSONIAN staff, including all who signed up during the Activities Fair, will meet at 10 a.m. Sunday in the
newspaper office. Anyone who wishes to work on the staff is invited to the meeting.

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1968

Spencer: ‘Give A Damn’

Davidson's 14th president is no rookie, however. For 11 years he was president of Mary Baldwin, and in less than
a month at Davidson, he has gotten around. The bookcases in his new office are not yet close to being
filled, but already Spencer has taken a tour of the dormitories and ordered some repainting. He has met with student
body leaders. He has been calling in faculty department heads for consultations. He is planning for next month's trustee meeting.
And at a freshman assembly last week, he urged the Class of '72 to “give a damn.”

Spencer gives a damn, too. “One of the biggest questions that faces a college is that of priorities. We have
many different problems, needs and desires, but with the exception of the new library—which is of first priority—there is no
list of priorities. There needs to be.” He reels off a list of his own—some of the matters he must
attend to during his first months in office:

—An examination of admissions policy and the college's role with the disadvantaged of the region. “We cannot be a provincial
college. We must try to broaden our outlook through our personnel, both student and faculty. And I am interested in
trying to define the responsibility the college has to help in the bootstrap operation for the disadvantaged.”

—Finding men and money for the Honors College and non-Western studies program. “It isn't easy to find people for this.
Non-Western people are particularly difficult to find, particularly really competent people. They're in great demand. There’s a shortage of them,
and they’re in great demand.”

—Investigation of dormitory conditions, with an eye out for possible renovation. “We need some sort of renovation—certainly equipment and possibly
modification of design—within the limits of the buildings we have now. And that may require more dorm space to make
up for any renovation. This is an obvious need.”

On other questions, Spencer offers opinions and suggestions, not sure-fire solutions. On the threat of extinction facing small colleges, he
says, “I think the small college has a very important role to play in American education. But it must be
a role that is clearly defined and clearly understood. We must be able to articulate what we are and what
we are trying to do.”

Six-Month Search: Careful, Exhaustive

The six-month search that ended with the election of Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to the college presidency was careful,
exhaustive and completely open, in the opinion of the students and faculty members who advised the trustee selection committee.

Spokesmen for the faculty's six-man advisory committee and the four-man student group said their committees were consulted frequently by the
trustees. Both committees were permitted to interview the five finalists and both endorsed Spencer, they said.

“Dr. Spencer is a man of outstanding ability and experience,” the faculty committee said in a July 12 letter to
the rest of the faculty. “He has a great vision of Davidson's role in the future of higher education.”

“The man is a real dynamo,” said Tom Earnhardt, student body president last year and a member of the student
committee. “He has the experience as teacher and administrator we were looking for. He is close to student consensus and
involvement. And he can bring in just as many fresh ideas as someone away from Davidson.”

The search, which began last Jan. 4 with the resignation of Dr. D. Grier Martin, touched on 124 candidates before
Spencer's election was announced July 12 by Trustee Chairman Walter L. Lingle Jr. The two advisory committees were authorized by
the trustees and appointed shortly after Martin's resignation. It marked the first time the faculty and student body have been
directly involved in the selection of a Davidson president.

Presidential prospects solicited from the two advisory committees, major foundations, other schools and friends of the college initially totaled 144
men, Lingle reported here at the May 3 trustee meeting. He said the list was then pared down to those
with Presbyterian backgrounds, in accord with the trustee bylaw requiring that the president be a member of the Presbyterian Church
when elected and a member of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. (Southern) when inaugurated.

By the May 3 board meeting, Earnhardt said, the list of candidates had been reduced to the five finalists. Each
prospect consented to interviews, which were conducted separately by the student, faculty and trustee committees, with Dean of Faculty Frontis
W. Johnston participating in several of the sessions. Each committee and Johnston were asked to evaluate and rate the candidates,
and according to the faculty committee's letter to the rest of the faculty, “the faculty and student ratings were almost
identical and there was little variation in all four of the ratings.

“Both faculty and student committees recommended that either of two men should be offered the nomination.”private ° ee 4° =="

“We cannot be a provincial college. We must try to broaden our outlook through our personnel, both student and faculty.
And I am interested in trying to define the responsibility the college has to help in the bootstrap operation for
the disadvantaged.” —Dr. Spencer

Colleges like Davidson: “Compare the financial situation of the college today and a generation ago. Actually, it's a lot better
college today than it was then, and the case might be made that it was in more danger then. While
we will have to watch the dollar, I think Davidson still has a very important role.” (See SPENCER, Page 4)

Code, Site Of Library

President, PhD, Historian, And...

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer and T.D. Geier Martin both served as managing editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN, but the similarity ends
at that point. Former President Martin came up through the business side—he was college treasurer before assuming the presidency—while Dr.
Spencer holds a PhD in history, has written two books on American history, and spent a year abroad as a
Fulbright lecturer during his 11-year tenure as president of Mary Baldwin College.

After graduating summa cum laude from Davidson in addition to winning the student presidency, he entered the army, serving two
of his five years in the Davidson ROTC department. Graduate work followed the army years, then he returned to Davidson
as assistant to President John R. Cunningham. Dr. Spencer became dean of students in 1954 and held the post until
he accepted the Mary Baldwin presidency in 1957. Under his administration at the Staunton, Va. girls’ school, $4.4 million of
new buildings were added, and a new curriculum instituted.

Dr. Spencer has written two books, “Decision For War, 1917” and “Booker T. Washington and the Negro’s Place in American
Life.” He is a member of the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and has served as
president of the Southern Association of Colleges for Women.

Publication Time Changes

THE DAVIDSONIAN’s publication time has been changed to 10 a.m. Friday because of the end of Saturday classes. Copies of
the newspaper will be distributed in the dormitories and in the Union, post office, and other campus spots. Next week's
DAVIDSONIAN will carry a two-page directory of student and faculty addresses, plus the usual six pages.

Board To Meet At Homecoming

The highly publicized Code of Responsibility, proposed last spring but twice deferred by the Board of Trustees, will be on
the agenda again next month when the board holds its regular fall meeting here. Trustee approval of the code, which
calls for a liberalization of the college's rules policy to include drinking on campus and open dorm policies, was postponed
last May and again over the summer to give the board more time for study.

Senate Offers Drinking Rules

The SGA Senate recommended that drinking be allowed in the residence halls, on the fraternity court, and at the College
Union in a proposal passed Tuesday night in response to a request of the Board of Trustees concerning the specific
implementation of the CRAP Report. In other business at the Senate's first meeting of the year, an amendment to the
SGA Bylaws was proposed to abolish freshman regulations and other freshman-specific rules.

Associate Editor Robert Pyeatt knows both Davidsons. He is a junior at the college, and he has worked closely with
the people across the tracks. This fall he will be examining The Other Davidson, and his hard look at this
distinct town will be contained in a series of articles. The series begins next week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Also, the Senate elected senior Pat Oglesby to the office of chancellor of the SGA. After welcoming the senators back
to the campus, SGA President Joe Murphy notified the Senate that the trustees had deferred action on the CRAP Report
until Oct. 11. Meanwhile, the trustees requested that the faculty, administration, and SGA Senate submit a report concerning the specific
implementation of the drinking clause.

In a four-point statement, the Senate recommended that drinking be allowed in dormitories, on the fraternity court, and at the
College Union. The Union Board would determine the rule on drinking in the Union. Also, drinking would be forbidden in
other areas of the campus except in instances of transportation, in which case the alcohol must be concealed. The Senate
proposal was passed unanimously, with the only opposition coming from senior Frank Murphy and junior C.L. Cheshire, who opposed drinking
in the dorms but supported the overall statement.

The Senate action dealing with freshman regulations stemmed from Joe Murphy's speech to the freshman assembly Monday. Murphy cited the
need to rid the campus of its divisions. “I don't think we should treat the freshmen as children,” said Murphy,
“but, rather, we should accept them into the Davidson community as adults.” The amendment, that the “freshman regulations and freshman
court be stricken from the bylaws,” was unanimously proposed but according to the SGA Bylaws, it cannot be voted on
until the next Senate meeting.

Other matters likely to be on the agenda at the Oct. 11 meeting will be the location of the new
library and a review of the college's endowment policy, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said this week. The trustees first
received the Report of the Committee on Rules and Punishment last spring, a day after the faculty had approved parts
of it, and although the Trustee Student Life Committee recommended it, the board called for a brief postponement to allow
further study. The matter was held up again this summer when Trustee Chairman Walter L. Lingle Jr. asked the college
to prepare a specific illustration of how the code’s proposals would be implemented.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. said this week that a campus statement unifying suggestions from the student body,
faculty, and administration would be submitted to the board by Oct. 1. The proposals before the board this fall differ
slightly from those of last spring, Burts said. A legal review into the report's compatibility with state laws, conducted by
trustee Hough Cannon, an attorney, prompted several slight changes, according to Burts. At least two members of the administration predicted
privately this week that the report would pass.

A Lingle Manor site for the new E.H. Little Library was approved by the board last fall, but the matter
was reopened this spring by a dissatisfied Library Planning Committee. Spencer said the trustees would probably only discuss the location
at their October meeting, postponing another final decision until spring. “There are so many differences of opinion about the location,”
Spencer said. “There doesn't seem to be one ideal location.” Two other locations often suggested are a site across Concord
Road from the present library and one in front of Little Dormitory.

The further deliberation probably will not delay the start of construction, Spencer said. “Because all the suggested sites are fairly
level, there can be a lot of preliminary work before the site is chosen. If the architects get the go-ahead
a year in advance, there is no reason why they shouldn't be able to get the plans out in time.”
The Planning Committee has already compiled a booklet detailing the needs of the new facility.
