(Staff Photo by McKellar)

STUDENT CONSULTS PROFESSOR
Often prevents unnecessary problems.

Alcohol Problem Here Indicates NOT JUST DAVIDSON

Common Campus Plight: Limited Guidance, Counseling Services

By JOHN BOLINGER
Asst. Managing Editor

Many colleges and universities similar to Davidson possess limited or inadequate student guidance programs. Their counseling programs are particularly weak in the treatment of students’ personal problems. College challenges and pressures on today’s student often result in depression, discontent, and general unhappiness. Many colleges now recognize the problem of the “troubled student” as a serious and growing one. A recent psychological study estimated that up to 25 percent of today’s college students could do better work and be happier with professional counseling. Yet even with more students needing and seeking help, only about 100 colleges across the country have even part-time psychiatrists or professional guidance counselors. Even fewer schools can offer counseling in organized guidance offices or campus clinics. At many colleges that do provide psychiatric care, the student is often faced with a “don’t need help after 5 p.m. or on weekends” situation.

Washington and Lee Uni-

Lack Of Motivation And Concern

ED. NOTE: The writer is a senior majoring in psychology.

By KIRK REED

“Davidson gentlemen do not have alcohol problems.” At least this is what we like to believe about ourselves. “Sure, we drink to let off steam. On dates, we drink just to have something to do. But in neither case does alcohol become an unhealthy or dangerous crutch.” Unfortunately, I do not know whether to accept or reject this rosy description. Most students’ drinking patterns do seem to be “normal and healthy.” But contradictory evidence is fairly abundant. A hall counselor, for example, says point-blank: “I know some guys who get drunk four times a week. Several boys are developing real alcohol problems.” Or to use the words of the Rev. Will Terry: “Too many students at Davidson drink not to be convivial at a party or to enjoy it as some enjoy punch or coffee or coke—they drink to get stone drunk. Further, too many students consider the success of the evening or the weekend to be measured by how drunk they get.”

Since I have no statistics or carefully gathered empirical data (no one has ever bothered to investigate our drinking patterns through controlled psychological research), it is impossible to draw firm conclusions about the nature or extent of alcohol problems at Davidson. I will merely assume that some Davidson students—perhaps many—are becoming problem drinkers. (Dr. W. G. Workman assures me, incidentally, that it is impossible to predict which college students will eventually be alcoholics. The heaviest college drinkers may become “moderates” or “tee-totalers” may become alcoholics.) And I will outline four of Davidson's “drinking problems,” as I see them.

(1) Students frequently use alcohol as an escape from scholastic, social, and personal tensions. Too many men go to Hattie’s during the week, not just to have a beer up the road with the boys, but to forget. The problem, then, is not necessarily with drinking per se. Drinking can be merely a symptom of a deeper, more basic problem—the unwillingness to face up to and work through one's troubles. Psychologists say that the most dangerous time for a person to drink is when he is depressed. The alleviation of the depression tends to reinforce the drinking behavior to such an extent that heavy drinking may become a deeply ingrained “habit,” relied upon in any “problem situation.” The moral seems to be: “Drink when you're happy, not when you are sad.”

(2) In a broader sense, drinking can be a symptom of a generalized lack of motivation, a generalized disinterest in academic work. This seems to be a widespread phenomenon at Davidson. One freshman hall counselor reports, for example, that 23 percent of the boys on his hall are “be-boppers.” The “be-bop group” spends most of its time listening to records and shooting the breeze. Often they bounce on up to Hattie’s (on one occasion a group even went up the road at 7:30 a.m.), but the drinking again is only a tiny aspect of a much more comprehensive motivational problem.

(3) I am told that several of the students who drink excessively are products of an extremely puritanical home situation. When one considers that a relatively large percentage of Southern Baptists are alcoholics and that Europeans (who tend to drink in moderation from childhood) have little trouble with alcoholism, then this observation about family backgrounds does not seem surprising. Once again I am speaking conjecturally, but if a causal relation could be demonstrated here (i.e., between making alcohol a “big issue”—treating it as an “absolute evil”—and drinking excessively), then there might be immediate implications with regard to Davidson's strict, overly protective, in loco parentis philosophy.

(4) A final problem is that many Davidson students do not seem to care about what happens to their fellow students. When we see a fellow student drinking irresponsibly, what do we do? Usually, nothing. Will Terry says this quite well: “I wish that we could establish the kind of climate among students where irresponsible drinking was not favored, that when men started destroying the dorm property because they had hit it too much at Hattie’s or acted like a fool at parties they could feel the subtle disapproval of their peer group, but I suspect that is too much to ask of the Davidson intelligentsia.” I am afraid that Will’s pessimism is well-founded. But it is not too much to ask that psychological research be undertaken to determine the nature and extent of Davidson's “drinking problem” (it is disgusting to hear people talk about a problem when their discussion is not grounded in empirical knowledge).

WILL TERRY ... too many drink

Anxiety Reduced With Assistance

ED. NOTE: The author is a Davidson student describing his problems.

But you my doctor my enthusiast, were better than Christ; you promised me another world to tell me who I was.
—Anne Sexton

Why does anyone go to a psychiatrist? I guess that it’s a very simple question to answer. When your world falls apart or starts to fall apart, you really have no choice. Together you and the psychiatrist try to put back the pieces, not in the same order, but in a different order that you, as the patient, can live with. The procedure, it's not very complicated really. You go for an hour, in my case once every two months, not too often, and you sit and talk. It’s really just a talk session, and you can tell the psychiatrist anything you’re thinking about at the moment, problems, yes. In my case I was too bound up in myself. The work, schoolwork, was oppressive—that wasn’t by any means the whole problem, no. It was deeper because my emotions were out of joint. I don’t know really, it's sort of hard to explain. I had a very great fear of the future. I felt a loss of innocence. I resented the approaching responsibilities, responsibilities not here so much, of school, but outside, social responsibilities. Of going out, of leaving home, for good really, irrevocably, of getting a job, all of that. I could see no clear-cut future, and it was frightening to me. Nothing was really assured anymore. There were too many decisions, and no real answers. And all of this, frustration, yes, I was frustrated. I was not happy with the sort of life I was leading because I was sure that there was more to living than simply plugging along day after day, doing the same things, the same sort of dippy things. And my world simply started to fall apart because I didn't know where I was or where I was going.

All of this anxiety manifested itself in some physical symptoms. I just didn't feel well. Psychosomatic, completely—it hit me in the guts, as I turned my hostilities inward. And that's part of the treatment, treating organic symptoms of inward problems. I now have some tranquilizers that I take sometimes, whenever I feel that things are closing in. They chemically restore your sense of self-perspective. Now that my own therapy has progressed, I don't feel the need to take the tranquilizers as often. I feel that I’m a happier person. I caught myself in time, with some help, yes, certainly that. I do give therapy credit because if I had been able to do this myself, I wouldn't have needed any therapy., edge). And who knows. Our “drinking problem” may be illusory. When the CRAP Report is approved, we may surprise everyone by proving ourselves to be mature and responsible gentlemen.

The university in Lexington, Va. is typical of most guidance programs. Although W & L offers an extensive vocational guidance program, the school does not have a personal problems guidance center or a full-time clinical psychologist, according to the dean of students at the university. Student counseling is limited to the dean of students, the assistant dean of students, and a faculty adviser. At Furman University, where a recent student suicide sparked a renewed interest and concern in the area of professional guidance, a clinical psychologist is employed but not on a systematic or full-time basis. Dean of Students E. E. Harrell said that the clinical psychologist is restricted in the hours that she can be of service since she is also a member of the faculty with a regular course load.

Amherst College faces a similar problem. Although a professional counselor is on the college staff, his course load allows him to spend only 20 hours a week with the students as a professional counselor. One college that does have an organized counseling center with a resident psychiatrist is Dickinson College in Carlisle, Penn. The center comes in direct contact with six to eight percent of the student body each year and handles a wide variety of personal problems from homesickness to serious psychological difficulties.

Although most colleges and universities possess limited counseling facilities, more extensive professional guidance with full-time clinical psychologists or psychiatrists is needed. In the words of Dean Harrell, “The need for better guidance programs is here and it’s time to do something about it.”

ANTIDOTES TO PRESSURE

PERSONAL PROBLEMS | PAGE FOUR | FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1968

Not All Academic Pressure Bad, Counselor Hight Says
By DAVID SWEATT
Managing Editor

“You have to look at the ‘why’ of academic pressure,” said Dr. William B. Hight. “And the sympathy-seeker will never tell you the whole story.” Davidson's director of student counseling refused to call all pressure bad. Instead, he asserted that from a positive point of view, pressure can serve the student rather than hurting him. “We have to learn to make pressure work for us,” he said.

Hight said one thing that had not been considered fully in recent talks about increased student freedom is the increased pressure which accompanies new freedoms. Hight described pressure as resulting from one of two sources, intrinsic and extrinsic. He suggested that the new curriculum next year would offer many students the opportunity to place themselves under self-imposed intrinsic pressure. This would be in sharp contrast to the present system, which exerts academic pressure of an extrinsic nature, that of formal assignments and lectures.

Hight cautioned that not all students were equipped to direct themselves in their studies, that some would do their best work only in a conventional course situation. Asked if the purpose of some courses at Davidson was to teach character by having the students do large quantities of work with no apparent scholastic value, Hight said that courses at Davidson aren't or shouldn't incorporate hurdles erected just for the value of jumping them.

Speaking of Davidson students in general, Hight said most graduate from high school as “18-year-old success stories.” “Bright boys who learned everything in high school except self-discipline,” Hight described the Davidson freshman. Many times the high-pressured situation is too much for the problem-solving abilities he developed in high school, Hight said. Problems after this point are most serious for those who withdraw from the situation, he added. The healthiest reaction for a student who experiences academic problems is to see the professor. What most students fail to understand, according to Hight, is that seeing the professor helps as a tension reducer. Sometimes a student may generalize fear of a course to the person of the professor, Hight said, giving the student a great psychological barrier to improvement in the course.

Hight characterized professors as falling into two categories: those who are interested only in their academic discipline and those who balance their academic interests with a strong interest in their students. Davidson professors fall into the second category, according to Hight. “They wouldn't be here if they weren't interested in students. That’s why it’s so foolish for students not to see a professor when they're having a problem in a course.”

On the question of grades, Hight said he felt that they were necessary in scholarship just as standards were necessary in all other sectors of modern society. Hight said that grades offer the best single indication of how a student will do on the next level. Hight said that pass-fail grading would suit him but that he didn’t think students would like being judged for graduate school admission solely on the basis of the Graduate Record Examination, Law Boards, and other nationally-administered standardized tests.

“Students come to Davidson willingly, fully aware that Davidson is tough,” he said. “Surely they aren't surprised when they find that a lot is expected of them.”

College May Get Adviser
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

There is a good possibility that Davidson will obtain the services of one or more clinical psychologists at some time in the near future, according to Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology and chairman of a recently formed Committee on Counseling and Guidance.

“The need for more help in the area of student counseling has long been recognized at Davidson,” said Workman, “but this is the first organized effort to remedy the problem that I can remember.” The committee, which includes several members of the administration and faculty and two students, has been working on the problem since the beginning of this semester. They have discussed the problem at length but have not yet reached definite conclusions. They have been aided by the visit of Dr. Ben Barger, professor of psychology and director of student counseling at the University of Florida, who consulted with the committee early last month. Barger made a careful study of the situation here and entertained questions from the committee. He has recently made several recommendations to the committee based on his observations.

“The committee has not yet met to consider Dr. Barger’s suggestions,” Workman said, “so I cannot say what the next step will be.” Approval for the addition of a clinical psychologist has already been given by the Board of Trustees. The recommendation for obtaining such a man was a part of the Blue Sky recommendations and the Davidson College Self-Study Report, which preceded them.