‘They Didn’t Have To Shoot Him...’ 
By DAVID SWEAT 
Staff Writer

ORANGEBURG, S.C. — Delano Herman Middleton was buried recently in a weed-grown cemetery near his Orangeburg home. His sister screamed continuously, “They didn’t have to shoot him....” Middleton, a high school student, and two State College students died of gunshot wounds they suffered the night of Feb. 8. Their deaths came at the end of a week of racial violence at South Carolina State College in Orangeburg.

The death of the three students has been the central inflammatory fact in public arguments and contradictions since that time. The students fell before the gunfire of South Carolina state patrolmen after three continuous nights of violence. A report issued by the Southern Regional Council asked why less lethal methods of riot control such as tear gas or mace were not employed. The SRC report said Orangeburg’s riots portrayed to the rest of the nation a “frightening spectacle of an over-escalation of police and military force... and a conditioning of the American public mind already far along to an acceptance of violence and death in the resolution of problems.”

South Carolina Governor Robert E. McNair justified the patrolmen’s firing on the students. “The actions leading to three deaths and the numerous injuries came only after an extended period of sniper fire from the campus, and then not until an officer had been felled during his efforts to protect life and property,” McNair said. Yet no weapons were confiscated by police on the campus. No one has ever suggested that a national guardsman could have fired a shot by mistake. Later it was found that the felled patrolman had been hit by a thrown object and not by gunfire. Federal Bureau of Investigation officials are now attempting to find out who did fire the first shot.

The Los Angeles Times — Washington Post News Service reported that more than half of the 30 Negro students treated for bullet wounds received in the Feb. 8 violence had been shot in the back. The SRC report cited this news service, the National Broadcasting Company, and Jack Bass of “The Charlotte Observer” as the only representatives of the national news media who did not accept the official interpretation and justification of events at Orangeburg.

Roy Wilkins, executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, spoke to State College students last Sunday on the eve of the re-opening of classes Monday. Wilkins said the three Negro students had been “murdered.” He urged Gov. McNair to admit that the fatal shooting of the three students was an error. “Black power advocates” have been blamed by McNair for the trouble. Cleveland Sellers, 23, was charged on four counts and remains in the South Carolina State Penitentiary on $50,000 bail. Sellers had little influence at the two colleges (Claflin College, another Negro college, adjoins the S.C. State campus) and did not recommend violence, according to the SRC report.

The lesson drawn from the three deaths by one major South Carolina newspaper editor was that violence is a futile road to solving social differences, “a grim lesson that is not in the textbooks.” The segregated All-Star Bowling Lanes was the apparent cause of the Orangeburg violence. A federal court order has since forced that establishment to admit Negroes until the owner can prove that his business is not covered by existing civil rights laws. Yet the SRC report found the major cause of the violence to be not black power advocates seeking to incite riot to integrate the bowling alley. Rather, the quality of education at the two colleges was blamed. The day before the three deaths, 1,800 students presented a dozen grievances to Orangeburg city officials demanding action as the price for halting riots.

Though state spokesmen have not taken public notice of it, there has been trouble brewing on the S.C. State campus for over a year. A tragic prediction has come true. In an April 9, 1967, column entitled “Bombs, Blossoms” in Charleston’s “The News and Courier,” writer Hugh Gibson urged that steps be taken to avoid what he warned would be serious violence on the S.C. State campus. He called the campus a “de-fused bomb” that could go off at any time in the future. Gibson had witnessed the announcement that the class boycott was over and that the planned march on the office of Gov. McNair had been called off. Both protest measures had been guided by the student body president and the four class presidents. The protests were initiated on behalf of three students suspended for unauthorized campus demonstrations. Apparently, conferences with a gubernatorial aide “eased tensions at that time. A suit filed for readmission of the three students was successful. Under great student pressure, the college President B.C. Turner resigned in May. A trustee committee never found a successor. Maceo Nance Jr., formerly business manager of the college, was named acting president of the college last June. He served in that capacity throughout the recent violence and remains acting president now.

Students returned to State College last Monday after two weeks of suspended classes. The state field director of the NAACP, the Rev. I. DeQuincy Newman, predicted violence and bloodshed if students returned to State College and Claflin College to find conditions the same. Newman warned, “If students return to school and find those same conditions, they will tear down the schools and tear down the city so that there will be such a bloodbath, the likes of which has never been recorded in all the history of South Carolina.”

By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

The Richardson Fellows Program is an experiment in the development of the leadership potential of Davidson students. Since its instigation last year on the Davidson campus, the program has drawn both harsh criticism and lavish plaudits. Last year 12 boys were chosen from the freshman class to participate in the program. This year, some 85 freshmen applied for admission. From this group, 25 have been selected as finalists to participate in a retreat March 29-31 at Montreat.

By BILL WARREN and FRANKLIN ANDERSON

How do you organize students? “I go by and grab a few freshmen, then a few sophomores, and a few juniors, and I avoid seniors like the plague,” explained Joe Beard, leader of the campus conservatives and a dominating figure in the Young Republicans Club. “Davidson has a great deal of apathy concentrated in the Senior Class,” Beard continued, but said that there is “a leadership core—sometimes a corpse” which does everything around the school. Smiling as he emphasized the role of hard work in politics, Beard became pensive only when he talked of the probability of success in his effort to have conservatism predominate. He evidently enjoys the position which he holds as the leading conservative figure on campus, and elaborated on the methods of building a group like the Young Republicans. “You gotta work the halls. You've got to know who can be worked on, who can work. Some people want to join and be inactive. Some people might want to join if you put a little pressure. Some don't really want to join, but will contribute to the party. Leadership: “You are usually grateful if you can find one person in a class who can lead and who is worthy of the leadership.” According to Jim McNair, president of the YRC, Beard has been responsible for recruiting as much as “21 percent of the student body, making the club one of the four largest in the state.” McNair added that Beard’s efforts have given them “a large treasury as well as many members with which to work.” Beard has formerly been the executive secretary for the state college YRC and is an active recruiter for the Republican party in his area. Leaders are divided into two general categories by Beard: “those who are in it for principle and those in it for the profit.” (Photo by Bob McKellar) SENIOR JOE BEARD ... grateful to find leaders Those who enter a group for the personal profit will not go out on a limb, he added, as will those who join for their principles. Identifying himself as one who joins for the principle, Beard added, “I'm interested in the man who will stand up against history.”and say, ‘Hell, no!’" Beard said that the typical student attitude to leaders is, “This guy knows more than I do, this guy does more than I do. I can’t make a rational decision, so I'll let him decide.” Beard said the faculty was no help to him because of their attitude and the occasional attacks on him by various professors in class. “The whole trend on campus finds its fulfillment in the New Left," he said. “They don’t directly make it hard for you,” he said, referring to conservatives in general, “if what you are trying to organize is academically respectable.”

Beard said his major mistake while he has led Davidson conservatism was allowing personal ambition and prejudice to come before “doing what must be done.” But he attributed this failure to conservative leadership in general and said that it may prevent conservative victory. Beard classified the YRC as a “technical organization to learn the techniques of electing Republicans. If at the same time it isn't given a purpose, it isn't worth anything.” He says that he is active because he strongly feels that today there has to be leadership that “knows what it is doing.” He added that it isn't competent to run “one who will deviate from what is Right.”

Besides developing leadership, one of the basic aims of the program is to gain a clearer concept of what is involved in being a leader. Because of limited funds and personnel and the experimental nature of the program, the number of fellows has to be limited. This makes the selection of fellows even more difficult and important. Despite the importance of selecting students having leadership potential, Dr. William McGavock, faculty adviser to the Richardson program, is reluctant to pinpoint the specific characteristics being looked for in the candidates. “One of the important things in this type of program,” McGavock explained, “is to keep the selection process wide open.” There may be many different types of leadership, he continued. Leadership may be exhibited in a “quiet way in music or literature” as well as the qualities of leadership often shown by industrial leaders.

McGavock believes that the Richardson Program should “not be a classroom-type experience. Instead, it should consist of a confrontation with problems, with people who are acknowledged leaders in different fields, and with various experiences which challenge their imaginations and their ability to lead.”

Student Leaders

With Student Government Association elections a few days away, THE DAVIDSONIAN presents a report on student leaders and the influence they exert. The report focuses on the criteria for leadership in a story about the Richardson Fellows program and on the organizational problems of leadership. Finally, it examines the results of a leadership void at a small South Carolina college.

The program hopes “to awaken in some men the tremendous ability to serve others and the desire to do this,” McGavock said. “Leadership demands dedication.” Mike Mooty, student director of the program, added that the type of boy wanted in the program is one who is “emotionally mature, having a fairly well-developed concept of himself and his effectiveness and ineffectiveness. A leader should be able to analyze a situation and the people in a situation and organize them effectively to accomplish a goal. He should be sensitive with a social awareness and concern.”

When asked if it would not be better if the program could be extended to more students, Mooty agreed that indeed it would, but that the experimental nature of the program and limited resources did not enable this presently. He added, “I'd like to have a staff of 50 and $500,000 a year to take every interested man in the school into the program.”

McGavock said that “a great many people are pointing a finger at the academic leadership for leaving a job to be done in developing leadership from among the students. These people have been greatly enthused over the program. Davidson has a definite responsibility to the world community,” Mooty continued. “Academic preparation is of primary importance, but the college should also challenge a man who has talents in any area, such as in the development of leadership.”

The ways in which the program has been trying to encourage and develop leadership have varied. One of the main means is through summer internships which are now being procured for the fellows. For example, one of the Fellows is considering an internship this summer with Wachovia Bank. Two boys may go to New Haven, Conn., to work in a high school project to develop and inspire talented youngsters coming from underprivileged areas. The Fellows are also encouraged to attend educational conferences as well as to participate in seminars and discussions with prominent leaders coming to the Davidson campus. Three will be traveling to Washington at the end of the month to attend a conference. The Fellows also plan to sponsor a race-relations symposium at the college next fall.

Mooty and McGavock both point to the screening part of the selection process in which the Fellows themselves take part as being one of the most educational and valuable aspects of the program. It is difficult to judge the value of the program at this time, either as to effectiveness in developing leadership potential or in its discovery of those intangible qualities which make up leadership. But some advantages have already been noted. For example, “One thing we have already gotten out of the program,” McGavock said, “is the awareness that so many students at Davidson are interested in having this type of program.”

McGavock said that since the nature of the program itself was experimental, various mistakes could be expected and indeed had already been made. “No experiment can be expected to explode suddenly into a beautiful success,” he said. “It is our hope that through the money which is being spent, we will be able to discover some avenues to learn more about leadership and how it can be developed.”

(Photo by Joe Friebele) MIKE MOOTY OVERSEES POTENTIAL LEADERS “I'd like to have a staff of 50 and $500,000 ...”

Student Leaders Don’t Exist, Says Mungo

By BOB REID Managing Editor

There is no such thing as a student leader, according to a former student activist. “Students who have formal positions in the student government are not really leaders,” said Ray Mungo, former editor of the Boston University News and now director of the Liberation News Service in Washington, D.C. “The student community has no leaders. I interpret the word ‘lead’ to mean giving directions and impetus to students by personal contact. I know of no one doing this today.”

“It is impossible for student government presidents to do this, but they usually don’t. The president usually deals only with the council, which is an elite group with no power to change anything.” Mungo said a leadership gap exists in all contemporary American society and not just on campuses. “Having power doesn't make a man a leader,” Mungo added. He also said that students who have influence are not true leaders unless they personally inspire and direct people to accomplish something. Often the most influential people on campus are people who hold no official position in the student body, Mungo said. He cited ghetto workers and radical activists as examples. “In general they are more creative and more intelligent than most students,” he said. “Although their position may not be formal, they are doing something constructive in social reform or whatever their thing is.”

“These people are more ‘leaders’ in the sense of pointing the way, even though an army of people may not be following them. But they are making changes and getting things done.” Mungo said he considered not only leftist agitators as exerting leadership but also right-wingers, such as the Young Americans for Freedom.

While a student at Boston University, Mungo instituted sweeping reforms in the student newspaper, making it the center of a campus-wide controversy. His staff sent two reporters to South Vietnam with funds raised by projects such as the staging of the New England premiere of “MacBird.” Even though he pioneered changes at Boston U and held an influential position, Mungo does not consider himself to have been a real leader. “Obviously, I had influence,” he said. “But it was by virtue of power of suggestion. There was nothing formal to make people follow me. I had no office. I was leading indirectly through the BU News. My power was only intellectual.”