RESPONSIBILITY THE KEY CRAP proposes New Rule Attitude

PREAMBLE

As a college of liberal arts committed to the Christian faith, Davidson College seeks to liberate men physically, mentally, and
spiritually. Its primary purpose is to develop men of humane instincts, and of disciplined and creative minds for lives of
leadership, service, and self-fulfillment. Recognizing that the educational process encompasses far more than academic activities, Davidson College believes that its
purpose is promoted or hindered by the quality of the total life of the college community. The promotion of a
climate that is most conducive to the realization of its educational aims is the sole reason for the promulgation of
a code of responsibility.

The present code of responsibility is based upon the belief that Davidson’s educational purpose can best be advanced in a
context which emphasizes the responsible use of freedom, as opposed to license. The aim of this code is to encourage
individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions. An elaborate system of
rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity to the standards of behavior desired, but would not effectively serve to
develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the college. Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop
when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to
accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions. Specific rules are laid down in this code only when they
seem necessary to prevent actions which would infringe upon the freedoms and well-being of others, or would endanger persons or
property, or would be disruptive of community life.

I. CODE OF RESPONSIBILITY

1. Academic Responsibility:
The pursuit of truth and the development of community members are basic to the existence of Davidson College. Free inquiry
and free expression are indispensable to the attainment of these aims. Members of the academic community are encouraged to develop
the capacity for critical judgment and to engage in a sustained and independent search for truth. Freedom to teach and
freedom to learn are inseparable facets of academic freedom. The freedom to learn depends upon appropriate opportunities and conditions in
the college community. Such freedom should be exercised with responsibility. The development of institutional procedures which protect and safeguard this
freedom is a responsibility shared by all members of the academic community.

2. Financial Responsibility:
Consistent with the idea of responsible conduct expressed within the code is the belief that financial integrity is an integral
part of maturity. As such, it is the responsibility of members of the entire community to settle satisfactorily all outstanding
financial obligations. These obligations should be resolved solely between those persons or that person and organization involved. Such an instance
is a financial obligation between a student and a fraternity.

3. Honor Offenses:
Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from cheating. Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from stealing.
Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from lying under oath. Every student shall be honor bound to report
immediately all violations of the Honor System which come under his observation; failure to do so shall be a violation
of the Honor System. Each student is expected to be familiar with the operation of the Honor System.

4. Social Responsibility:
Davidson College recognizes the fact that social life is an opportunity to develop social maturity. It expects the members of
the community to use this opportunity responsibly in keeping with the standards of the Davidson campus. Such responsibility includes conduct
in fraternity houses, in dormitories, at the College Union, and at social functions sponsored by Davidson College and all its
organizations. The presidents of the fraternities and other social organizations will use their influence to see that the members of
these organizations exercise personal responsibility.

5. Misconduct Which Affects the Property, Person, or Rights of Others:
It is the responsibility of members of the college community to respect the property, person, and rights of others. Therefore,
members of the community will not engage in any form of activity which results in or might naturally result in
(1) damage to property, (2) injury to person, (3) interference with the rights of members of the community or visitors,
or (4) interference with the normal activities of the college.

6. Alcoholic Beverages:
(See Box, New Drinking...)

7. Medically Unsupervised Possession or Distribution of Drugs:
The medically unsupervised possession or distribution of potentially harmful drugs such as hallucinogens, amphetamines, barbiturates, and opiates is illegal and
subject to very harsh penalties. Further, the use of many of these drugs threatens the physical and mental health of
the users, and the use by one person may also threaten the welfare of others. Therefore, the college cannot tolerate
the medically unsupervised use, possession, or distribution of any of these drugs.

8. Firearms and Explosives:
In that the maintenance of firearms can result in bodily injury, anyone desiring to keep or use a firearm on
the Davidson campus must obtain written permission from the Student Senate. Firearms kept on the campus must be stored in
a special area designated by the Student Senate. Since the possession or use of firecrackers and other explosives in the
Davidson community would pose a serious threat to the safety of the other members of the community, their possession or
use is not allowed anywhere in the Davidson community.

9. Response to Campus Security Officers:
Members of the college community shall comply honestly with all requests made by the Campus Security Officers, including the showing
of their college identification cards.

10. Dormitories:
(See Box, New Drinking...)

11. Campus Regulations:
Realizing the requirements of a harmonious community life, Davidson College recognizes the need for certain detailed procedures regarding the operation
of the community, which nonetheless should be distinct from this code. Every member of the community is expected to be
familiar with the body of campus regulations and the rules of the Residence Hall Association.

II. JUDICIARY

This system is based on the following assumptions:
(a) A joint student-faculty regulations court is necessary for the realization of the basic aim of this code to eliminate
any dichotomy in the regulations, disciplinary, and judicial systems of Davidson College;
(b) A multiplicity of courts would be not only inconsistent with the philosophy of this code but would also endanger
the efficiency and justice of the judicial system.

Therefore, with the adoption of this code by the student and the faculty and with the approval of the trustees,
the following judiciary is established:

Section 1. Courts and Jurisdiction

A. The Davidson College Regulations Court
The Davidson College Regulations Court shall consist of twelve members, six students and six faculty. The faculty members shall be
elected by the faculty and shall serve as long as that body so desires. Members of the Faculty Executive Committee
shall not serve on the Court. The student members shall be elected in the spring by and from each class
except the senior class. Each class shall elect one member. Each member shall serve from his inauguration until the inauguration
of new members his senior year. The student section of the Court shall consist of three seniors, two juniors, and
one sophomore. The Regulations Court shall have original jurisdiction in matters concerning violations of the Code of Responsibility, except honor
violations.

B. The Honor Court
The Honor Court shall consist of twelve members, two elected each spring by and from each class except the senior
class. Each member shall serve from his inauguration until the inauguration of new members his senior year. The Court shall
consist of six seniors, four juniors, and two sophomores. The Honor Court shall have original jurisdiction in matters concerning violations
of the honor system.

C. The Residence Hall House Committees
House Committees shall be elected according to the Residence Hall Association Constitution and shall have original jurisdiction in matters concerning
violations of the residence hall regulations, unless damage to property exceeds $25.00 and except in the event that either the
vice-president of the Student Government Association or the Dean of Students should move to direct the case to the Jurisdiction
Committee.

PHILOSOPHY OF DISCIPLINE

Because of the nature of man, it is inevitable that there will be violations of the Code of Responsibility. For
this reason, the Philosophy of Discipline has been established. The purpose of this philosophy is to formulate a guideline for
discipline in the context of a responsibly mature community. The absence of specific punishments for specific violations gives much flexibility,
used in a responsible manner, to the judicial courts. This freedom allows the court the opportunity to consider each infraction
individually, and make its decisions according to the seriousness of the offense. The Regulations Court and the Honor Court have
the right and power to administer disciplinary action, up to and including suspension. The Residence Hall Association House Committees have
such power as designated by the RHA Constitution.

IV. AMENDMENT PROCEDURE

Amendments to this Code of Responsibility can be proposed only by a joint student-faculty committee selected for that purpose. This
committee may be called by either a 3/4 vote of the Student Senate, a written petition from 25 percent of
the student body, or by a 2/3 vote of the faculty. This revision committee shall consist of four members of
the student body selected by the Student Senate and four members of the faculty selected by the faculty. The amendment
that this committee proposes can be ratified by a 2/3 vote of both the student body and the faculty.for determination
of jurisdiction in consideration of the seriousness of the offense. In such an event, the Jurisdiction Committee can refer the
case back to the House Committee or to the Regulations Court for adjudication.

D. The Jurisdiction Committee

The Jurisdiction Committee shall consist of the Dean of Students, Chairman of the Regulations Court, and the Chairman of the
Honor Court and shall be charged with the responsibility to review suspected violations of the Code of Responsibility, Honor Code,
and residence hall regulations to determine if there is evidence to warrant a trial and which court shall try the
accused. The Committee shall have the authority to direct the Investigating Committee to gather such evidence as is necessary for
the accomplishment of its responsibility.

Section 2. Rights of Appeal

A. Members of the College Community shall have the right to appeal not only the decision of conviction but also
the specified punishment from a lower court to the next higher court.

B. Appeals shall be made as follows:
—from the Residence Hall Committees to the Regulations Court within 48 hours,
—from the Regulations Court to the Faculty Executive Committee within 5 days,
—from the Honor Court to the Faculty Executive Committee within 5 days,
—from the Faculty Executive Committee to the Trustee Executive Committee within 5 days,
—from the Trustee Executive Committee to the appropriate civil court.

Section 3. Defense Adviser

1. The Defense Adviser shall advise and assist any person accused before the Honor Court, Regulations Court, and Faculty Executive
Committee, unless the accused shall request otherwise, in which case the Court shall, if it approves the request, permit the
defendant to secure a competent legal adviser.

2. The Defense Adviser shall not be required to reveal incriminating evidence against the accused, and shall not testify against
the accused.

Section 4. Investigating Committee

A. The Investigating Committee shall consist of three members, including a chairman, appointed in accordance with II, 4 of the
Student Government Association Constitution.

B. The Investigating Committee shall be charged with responsibility by the Jurisdiction Committee to investigate any accusations of violations of
the honor system or of a violation of the Code of Responsibility, or of a violation whose penalty involves the
status of a student.

C. The Investigating Committee shall be directed by the appropriate Court Chairman to gather any legal evidence the Court deems
necessary for its judicial process.

D. The Investigating Committee shall have no jurisdictional powers.

Section 5. Summer Honor Court

The Summer Honor Court shall consist of five members, including a chairman and a recorder, appointed in accordance with II,
4 of the SGA Constitution. Members of the Court shall either attend summer school or reside for the summer within
150 miles of Davidson. As many members of the regular Honor Court shall be appointed as possible. A quorum of
the Court shall be 4 members.

Section 6. Summer Regulations Court

The Summer Regulations Court shall consist of six members. Three student members shall be appointed by the SGA President with
approval by the Senate. Three faculty members shall be appointed by the Dean of Faculty. Student members must attend Summer
School. As many members of the regular Regulations Court shall be appointed or elected as possible. The Court shall elect
its own Chairman. A quorum of the Court shall be 4 members.

Section 7. Jurisdiction Determination During Summer Session

The Chairmen of the Honor Court and Regulations Court shall have the responsibility to decide which court is to consider
specific cases. Both courts shall follow the rules of court established in Section 8.

Section 8. Rules of Court

A. Regulations Court

1. A quorum of the Regulations Court shall consist of nine members. A two-thirds (2/3) vote of those members present
is required for a conviction.

2. The Court shall have the power to establish such other rules of procedure and precedent as are deemed necessary.

3. The rules of the Court may be reviewed at any time by a joint student-faculty committee established according to
the April 12, 1968 I, 6.

C. The Residence Hall Committees

The Committees shall follow the procedure as outlined in the Residence Hall Constitution, except where specified by this code.

D. Responsibilities of the Chairmen of the Honor Court and the Regulations Court

The Chairmen of the Courts shall preside over their respective Courts, shall direct the investigating committee to collect such evidence
as the Courts deem necessary, shall issue such authorizations for search as seem necessary and reasonable, shall administer the oath
of office, and shall oversee the instruction of new members of their respective Courts. The Chairmen are responsible for giving
a presentation of their respective codes at an assembly as soon as possible at the beginning of each year.

Section 9. Rights of the Accused

Any member of the college community accused of a violation of the Honor System or the Code of Responsibility shall
be given the following statement of his rights, which shall be followed by all Courts or disciplinary bodies in the
college:

A. The accused shall be informed in writing of the charges against him.

B. The accused shall have adequate time to prepare his defense.

C. The accused shall not be required to take any reviews or examinations between the time he is charged and
two days after the verdict is delivered.

D. The accused shall have the advice and assistance of the defense adviser. All that the accused says to the
defense adviser shall be confidential and may not be held against him.

E. If for some reason acceptable to the Court, the accused wishes counsel other than the defense adviser, he shall
be allowed to secure such counsel and that counsel shall have the same rights, privileges, and duties in that case
as the defense adviser normally would.

F. The accused shall be assumed innocent until proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt through evidence presented in court.

G. The accused shall have the right to call witnesses, shall be allowed to question witnesses, and shall have a
fair opportunity to present his defense.

H. The accused shall not again be placed in danger of penalty for an act once declared innocent of any
violation pertaining to that act. A decision by the Jurisdiction Committee is not included in this prohibition against double jeopardy.

I. The accused shall not be required to testify against himself, but the court may require other students to testify
against him.

J. No evidence obtained in violation of the freedom of privacy shall be admitted.

K. No undue pressure shall be placed on the accused to confess or incriminate himself.

L. No violation of civil or criminal law shall in itself be cause for penalizing action.

M. The accused shall not be penalized academically for disciplinary actions involving misconduct actions.

N. The accused shall not be restrained in any manner from the (See REPORT, Page Six)

Page Three

New Drinking Rule, Open Dorms Asked

6. Alcoholic Beverages: Davidson College does not encourage the use of alcoholic beverages by members of the college community. Prohibition,
however, is neither practical nor consistent with the aim of developing individual maturity. Therefore, members of the college community are
to be free and obligated to accept full responsibility for their own actions. For sake of propriety, drinking will not
be tolerated outside private houses, fraternity houses, dormitory facilities or other areas designated by the college administration. Public drunkenness or
irresponsible conduct encouraged by the use of alcohol will not be tolerated. Students are expected to be cognizant of state
laws concerning possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.

10. Dormitories

Dormitory life is an extremely important part of the Davidson College community. Members of the community will be expected to
conduct themselves responsibly at all times in the dormitory facilities. Such responsibility will include a consideration of the rights of
others, and conduct violating these rights will not be tolerated.

Dormitories will be open to female guests as follows: Friday, 4 p.m., to Saturday, 2 a.m.; Saturday, noon, to Sunday,
2 a.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. Procedures for such weekends will be designated by the Residence Hall Association.

the verdict is delivered.

D. The accused shall have the advice and assistance of the defense adviser. All that the accused says to the
defense adviser shall be confidential and may not be held against him.

E. If for some reason acceptable to the Court, the accused wishes counsel other than the defense adviser, he shall
be allowed to secure such counsel and that counsel shall have the same rights, privileges, and duties in that case
as the defense adviser normally would.

F. The accused shall be assumed innocent until proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt through evidence presented in court.

G. The accused shall have the right to call witnesses, shall be allowed to question witnesses, and shall have a
fair opportunity to present his defense.

H. The accused shall not again be placed in danger of penalty for an act once declared innocent of any
violation pertaining to that act. A decision by the Jurisdiction Committee is not included in this prohibition against double jeopardy.

I. The accused shall not be required to testify against himself, but the court may require other students to testify
against him.

J. No evidence obtained in violation of the freedom of privacy shall be admitted.

K. No undue pressure shall be placed on the accused to confess or incriminate himself.

L. No violation of civil or criminal law shall in itself be cause for penalizing action.

M. The accused shall not be penalized academically for disciplinary actions involving misconduct actions.

N. The accused shall not be restrained in any manner from the (See REPORT, Page Six)

Page Three
