/ THANKSGIVING RECESS

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the Thanksgiving recess. Publication will resume Dec. 6.

LVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1968

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

CONCERT PRICES SKYROCKET (See Page Three)

NUMBER NINE

This is to Certify that this establishment was inspected on and received a sanitary rating of

NORTH CAROLINA STATE BOARD OF HEALTH

CAFETERIA’S GRADE SLUMPS

If it’s below 70, a cafeteria has to close.

Health Inspectors Slap ‘C’ Rating On Cafeteria

By TODD HOBBIE
Staff Writer

The Union cafeteria, dining place for freshmen and most Independents, has received a “C” rating from the North Carolina Department of Health. The cafeteria's rating — a 71 — is only two points above an “F”. A Food Service spokesman said that any grade below 70 results in an immediate closing of a food service. “Places with a C rating don’t stay in business long,” one of the health inspectors said, “because people usually don't want to eat there.”

A large-scale cleaning job is needed in the cafeteria, the inspectors said. They noted that a bake table in the kitchen, for instance, had green on its corners as a result of insufficient cleaning. Slater Food Service Manager Klaus Kleeberg requested another examination for today, but the inspectors said the cafeteria’s initial grade could not be changed for 10 days or two weeks. Kleeberg said his staff would take all possible steps to upgrade the cafeteria. Corrections will center mainly on cleanliness, he said, but other corrections involving the physical aspects of the kitchen will be made also.

The Health Department's “C” rating is another in a series of attacks that has plagued the Slater management in the last few years.

Reynolds Series Schedules Platt

By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

Dr. John R. Platt, a PhD in physics and associate director and research biophysicist at the Mental Health Institute of the University of Michigan, will deliver Reynolds Lectures here Dec. 2-3. Two members of the Davidson faculty, Dr. Locke White, associate professor of physics, and Dr. Alan Brinkley, associate professor of philosophy, have expressed their pleasure with the prospects of Platt’s lectures and said he has made valuable contributions to both their fields.

White, a member of the Public Lectures and the Artist Series Committee, first proposed Platt’s name for consideration as a guest lecturer at Davidson. He described Platt as “an uninhibited thinker who is not absolutely scientifically oriented.”

Brinkley has also been impressed with Platt. “I have read several of his books,” Brinkley said, “and he appears to be a physicist quite interested in bridging the gap between the sciences and the humanities.” Platt, who is 50, has had a wide and varied career in many aspects of the sciences, including physics, biophysics, and genetics.

Action Brings Objections From Jackson, Council

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

Application for a permit to sell beer and wine has been filed with the State Board of Alcoholic Beverage Control, despite attempts by town officials to block it.

Mrs. Colleen Norket, proprietor of the Davidson Grocery on Depot Street, said this week she expected a final decision from the state board at any time. The Davidson Town Council, in an attempt to hamper Mrs. Norket’s efforts, last week adopted a resolution opposing it. The resolution was prompted by a request from the regional N. C. Board of Alcoholic Control in Charlotte, which made a routine investigation of the applicant and premises earlier this month.

Earlier, when Mrs. Norket displayed the required notice of intent to apply for the application, Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson urged her to withdraw it. “He offered to reimburse me for the $25 registration fee I had submitted,” Mrs. Norket said, “but I told him that I had already applied and intended to see the process through.”

She said she filed for the permit at the suggestion of a number of students. “There is certainly a market here, and I don't see why I shouldn't be making the profit on beer sales instead of someone out of town.”

The Town Council's resolution is not an ordinance of prohibition, Jackson said. “It is only a recommendation that the permit not be issued. There is no moral question involved.”

Five-Year Plan Spawns Optimism, Apprehension

By ROB KREHBIEL and ED SHOAF
Staff Writers

“The main value of the Five-Year Plan is that it could be the beginning of a whole series of changes that would make Davidson much more relevant to society.” So says sophomore James Parks, a member of the president's Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities. His opinion reflects a generally favorable reaction by many college officials to the ideas behind the report of the Five-Year Plan Committee published last week in THE DAVIDSONIAN. However, many felt that the specifics of the plan need to be further analyzed.

Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, professor of religion, said that he felt the college needed “to do some work on the question of priorities to see where such a program would fit in.” H. Edmunds White, director of admissions, also suggested that the college needed to establish some priorities concerning the allocation of funds before such a program could be effectively administered.

Parks, a Negro student, said that “the atmosphere around here would have to change before this program could be a success.” Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. also expressed concern over this aspect of the problem when he noted a “significantly higher attrition rate” in the past among such students as the Five-Year Plan would seek to attract to Davidson.

White pointed to one problem in the plan as being the selection of five-year students. He said he dislikes the idea of local selection boards of ministers or educators unless such groups underwent intensive training to acquaint them with present admissions policies and the current campus situation. White also said he feared that the nebulous criteria that would have to be used in the admission of five-year students would lead to a higher dropout rate in that group.

Rhodes emphasized that it will take time and cautious study to attempt a five-year program. “If done wrong,” he said, “this could be worse than having no program at all. There would always be the possibility of doing irreparable harm to a man if he didn't make it, either socially or in the classroom.”

As an immediate action Rhodes said, “We could begin by getting some Negroes on

Text Of Senate ROTC Position

The following is the text of the Senate resolution on ROTC:

We, the authorized study committee of the Senate, do hereby recommend the following plan for implementing voluntary ROTC at Davidson:

SECTION I
The drop-add period for ROTC for the freshman class shall be extended to two weeks after the beginning of school.

SECTION II
During the two-week period, all freshmen shall be required to attend both class periods of ROTC. These class periods shall acquaint the freshmen with the general ROTC program, its purposes, procedures, requirements, and benefits. Also during this extended drop-add period, hall meetings shall be conducted for all freshmen where students in the advanced ROTC program may explain ROTC from the student's point of view. If needed, an assembly or other informational program shall supplement the ROTC class periods and hall meetings.

SECTION III
Any freshman may choose not to participate in the ROTC program by designating such in a supplied form at the end of the two-week drop-add period.

Respectfully submitted,
Stewart Rogers
Jody Turner
Mike Spann
Cecil Burney
Harlan Day
Lawrence Wilkinsonthe faculty.” While Spencer’s Commissions play around with Parkinson’s Law, Davidson students are involved. “We just don’t have the facilities to handle the kind of situation that could develop where beer and wine are sold.” Although Mrs. Norket’s permit would not allow consumption on premises, the presence of a pool hall next door to the grocery apparently worried the council members. “I really don’t see any reason for beer to be sold in Davidson,” Jackson said. “You can buy it on both sides of town, in Cornelius and at Hattie’s. Why litter up Davidson with beer cans?” The ABC Board in Charlotte explained that its office investigates but does not make recommendations. “The final decision on the permit application is up to the state board in Raleigh,” a spokesman said. “The state board could legally overrule the Town Council’s recommendation if it so chooses.” If Mrs. Norket’s request is denied, she said, she may ask for a hearing before the state board. At the hearing, she and any opponents would be asked to state their cases before a final decision is made on the matter.

Town Grocery Seeks Permit For ABC Sales

ABC Protest Failed Before

The last time a store owner in this area applied for a beer-wine permit, it drew considerable protest. But the state Board of Alcoholic Beverage Control approved it anyway. The application was made several years ago by Cashion’s Food Stores in Cornelius. It prompted a hasty alliance of the town’s churches and a number of petitions, which accumulated scores of signatures. Approval of the permit by the state board in spite of the protest was apparently on the basis of a county referendum authorizing beer, wine, and controlled liquor sales in Mecklenburg County. No petitions have been started yet in Davidson in response to Mrs. Colleen Norket’s application for a beer permit, according to Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson. He said he hoped no one would try to circulate one, either pro or con.

Senate Passes Resolutions On ROTC, Fewer Chapels

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

In its most productive session this year, the SGA Senate Tuesday passed a resolution recommending fewer chapels with additional student cuts and approved a report from its ROTC Committee concerning the implementation of the voluntary ROTC program. The Senate also voted to call a second constitutional convention to further modify the conflicts between the SGA Constitution and the Code of Responsibility and passed a resolution presented to the faculty Educational Policy Committee Wednesday requesting self-scheduled exams.

The chapel resolution, presented by freshman President Steve Salyer, asks that the number of assembly programs be reduced to eight per quarter and that the number of student cuts be increased to 50 percent of the scheduled programs. If passed by the faculty, the above assembly procedure would become effective in the spring. The resolution also creates a committee composed of two senators, two members of the Union Board, two students-at-large, the college chaplain, and one faculty member to “actively solicit quality speakers and to plan, coordinate, and publicize the overall assembly program.” In presenting the resolution, Salyer, chairman of the Chapel Committee, pointed out that the attendance requirement was an attempt to guarantee an audience for each program. However, he said that he hoped that once the assemblies gained a reputation for good speakers, voluntary chapel could be implemented.

The ROTC report, passed as an appendix to the Nov. 5 Senate resolution calling for voluntary ROTC, was presented by Stewart Rogers. The report asks that the drop-add period for freshman ROTC be extended to two weeks. During this period, the freshmen are to be acquainted with the general nature of the ROTC program through ROTC classes and hall discussions in order to decide whether or not to participate in the program. The report was passed 15-8. The negative votes consisted of one ‘nay’ vote (Harry Goldman), two abstentions (Covey Carter and John Passmore), and five absences (Ed Dobbs, Gary Cash, Frank Murphy, Harlan Day, and Roger Mills).

For the second time this term, the Senate also proposed a constitutional convention to correlate the SGA Constitution and the Code of Responsibility. President Joe Murphy pointed to the conflicts in the court system of the constitution and the CRAP Report and also faculty opposition to parts of the Bill of Rights in the constitution as the primary reasons for the calling of the convention. The SGA must vote on the convention in a general vote in the future.

In other business, the Senate heard a report from John Williams of the faculty Educational Policy Committee concerning self-scheduled exams and then passed a resolution asking for a four-day, two-exams-a-day final examination period. Williams told the Senate that there was no hope for self-scheduled exams at the end of the current quarter but prospects are good for the winter term. The Senate resolution was presented by Williams to the Educational Policy Committee.

Herd: Constitution Leads To More Student Voice

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

“I think that a year from now when you look back on this Senate, you would have to say it has been a very effective body. It has been able to sway faculty and administrative views.” Speaking is junior Dan Herd, president of his class and a member of the powerful Senate Executive Committee (SEC), who had a few strong comments concerning student government in an interview this week. “Since the new constitution has been instituted, students have had a much louder voice in college policies,” continued Herd. “Because of the constitution, the faculty have a new respect for student government. They think we’re interested and we’re beginning to take the initiative in areas never explored by student government before.”

Herd is even more encouraged about the future role of the Senate now that it has reached full membership. “The old Senate was hampered in its constitutional role until recently because of this,” said Herd. “We can now operate on a committee basis as the Senate was originally designed. The committees will do the investigating but the SEC must provide the leadership that Joe Murphy has been providing. Herd pointed to the disunity within the student government as the major problem facing the Senate. “Student government cannot be a reality until all student organizations are under one representative body, i.e., the Senate. The Senate must concern itself with the consolidation of the autonomous student governments around campus. “Right now, there are too many organizations operating too independently. It’s too hard to organize student opinion and student action unless they are under the jurisdiction of one body which can provide control which in return would bring unity of purpose within student government.”

Herd also came out for co-education but he said he hoped it would take the form of coordinate campuses rather than a co-ed campus. Concerning the issues before the presidential commissions, Herd began by saying he was in favor of subsidized athletics at Davidson only if the subsidized sport benefited the college. “I don’t think we should subsidize a team if all it’s going to do is draw money from the college with no noticeable benefits.” Concerning campus social patterns, Herd said he hoped any change in the established social system at Davidson (i.e., fraternities) would be aimed at increasing the relationships and contacts of students with other students.