Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief
BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1968

Trustees’ Rule: Asking For A Second-Stringer?

Dr. Carleton Chapman, dean of Dartmouth Medical School, remarked during his visit to Davidson last week that he could think of only a very few men whom he would consider to be great college presidents in the United States today. In presenting its curriculum plan, the Blue Sky Committee noted the tremendous difficulties facing the liberal arts college today, a situation that would seem to demand great leadership at schools like Davidson just to make them relevant to the modern world.

Yet, despite this great need at Davidson and despite the small number of men who might be able to satisfy that need, the Board of Trustees seems determined to maintain its rule that the new president must be a Presbyterian. There is really no reason to believe that there are no qualified candidates who are Presbyterian. At the same time, there is even stronger evidence that a person need not be a Presbyterian in order to be an excellent college president. No reason can be identified for the Presbyterian rule other than the old one of public relations with the Presbyterian Church. Naming a Presbyterian can hardly be said to be a way to pre-determine greatness for the college. On the contrary, by limiting further the already limited number of desirable candidates, the trustees would seem to be condemning Davidson to mediocrity.

We would not be so concerned if the trustees had indicated some willingness to remove the Presbyterian restriction. They seem, however, to be determined to retain the qualification. Questions about the restriction were raised by the student advisory committee, but they have met only with the answer that this seems to be an inappropriate time to initiate a removal of the rule. Ridiculous. No time is more appropriate than the present. It is reasonable to expect the college to be stuck with its new president for at least several years. It will be stuck indeed if it takes a second-string man simply in order to fulfill the Presbyterian restriction.

Reading The NBC Poll

In assessing the results of the New Hampshire primary Tuesday night, NBC newsman Frank McGee made much of an NBC poll taken shortly before the balloting which indicated the voters had little real knowledge of Sen. Eugene McCarthy’s position on Vietnam. He implied that the much higher than expected turnout for McCarthy was not really a reaction to the war but was instead an expression of general dissatisfaction with President Johnson.

If it was accurate, the poll provided a very disheartening comment on democratic government by indicating a large percentage of the voters simply had almost no idea about McCarthy’s views on national issues. Supposedly the senator’s support at the polls was not really supporting him, but just a protest vote against the President. Does this mean then that the vote had no relevance to the war question?

Sunday, Robert J. Donovan of the Washington Post-Los Angeles Times News Service sketched the ways in which Vietnam has changed Johnson. According to Donovan, the President is becoming an embittered man with some feeling that he is being persecuted. Complaints about the ills of American society are taken by him as unfair personal attacks upon himself. It seems fair to say, then, that Vietnam has come to hinder the President in the performance of his duty because it is having intense effects on his personality. Certainly the war has contributed to his public image as a less than straightforward individual. The New Hampshire voters who were against Johnson may not have realized it, but they were in a meaningful sense voting against the war.

And one more thing. In light of the publicity that has been given to McCarthy as a peace candidate, it seems beyond belief that there could be a large percentage of voters, ignorant of his views, who were at the same time aware of Johnson’s stated position. The NBC poll casts no doubt on one candidate that does not fall on the other. It does, however, shake one’s faith in popular elections.

A Promise To Keep?

President Johnson and Secretary of State Dean Rusk have, in recent weeks, made much of the need for the United States to keep its word by staying in the fruitless Vietnam slaughter. Fine, it is great to be trustworthy. But we wonder how well off the U.S. would be today if Johnson had kept his promises of the late 1940’s and early 1950’s to oppose civil rights legislation. It was an unwise position then, and its maintenance would not even be supported by Johnson today. It seems to us that a reasonable reassessment of an unwise promise is much more respectable and certainly more right than blind refusal to admit error.

Long-eared Candidates

Candidates running for elective offices have often been known for behaving like donkeys. Candidates at Davidson are no exception. While it is gratifying that several contestants in recent and current elections have been willing to take a definite stand against what they feel is wrong, it is upsetting to see that they have in several instances been running against the wrong people. It seems almost unbelievable that some candidates have identified the faculty as the source of villainy at Davidson. No view could be any less perceptive. With few exceptions, Davidson faculty members are eminently qualified to be excellent professors. This much we hope will be readily admitted by even the most obtuse of candidates.

What is at stake then would seem to be the idea that it is the faculty that prevents change from occurring at Davidson. Although the charge may have been valid in the past, it simply does not hold up today. Anyone who has had very extensive dealings with the faculty would have to realize that its members are far more aware of and dedicated to the need for improvement at Davidson than are most students. Is it proper to blame the faculty for not having changed its archaic rules governing student life? We think not. The reason is that, if students are content with those rules, then why should the faculty think the rules are unrealistic? Now you say, “How in the world can they think we are content with those rules when we gripe about them all of the time?” Except for a few very scattered student government resolutions and some shouting to the wind by THE DAVIDSONIAN, very little discontent with the rules has been shown by students. Gripes over the meal table and covert breaking of the rules are not ways to show why the rules should be changed. In order for the Board of Trustees to approve any policy changes, it is necessary for them to feel that the changes are really desired. If the faculty were to initiate changes in student life, what reason would the trustees have to believe that students really wanted the changes? In dealing with fraternity issues, one of the reasons the trustees have been so slow to act is that they have not wanted to accept faculty recommendations that might not be supported by students. At the same time, one of the reasons the trustees did accept the Blue Sky curriculum was that students had demonstrated their support of the program. Everybody is sick of hearing the old clichés about student apathy. But until students show what they want, student politicians had better find a more vulnerable target than the faculty to attack.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Williams Attacks McMillin Position

To The Editor:

While reading the letter of Prof. Ray McMillin which has appeared in the last two issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I was disturbed not so much by the specific charges he made against students, as by the general picture of students that he tried to create. In painting them as irresponsible and immature, he was quite unjustified, at least in my opinion. He accused students of being ultimately responsible for the locked fire extinguisher box in Little Dormitory during the recent fire and of trying to shift the blame to the administration. Yet it seems to me he is trying to shift the blame entirely back to the students which is what he accused us of doing—instead of letting it rest equally with both groups.

Bentley Urges Computer Dean

To The Editor:

Sitting in economics the other day while the professor was talking about the effect of substitute goods on a particular product's market, I was struck with a revolutionary idea on how the college could save some money. As budget-minded and computerized (e.g., grade reports, registration, etc.) as Davidson is becoming, why not go whole-hog and have a computerized dean of students, thus saving a salary that could be used to expand the faculty? All the Executive Committee would have to do would be to feed the rules into the computer, a student’s problem could be programmed into it, and a yes-no answer would be readily available without the possibility of human error. Whatever personal and academic counseling would be necessary could be the responsibility of the Student Counseling and the Chaplain’s offices which are especially trained in counseling. Of course, the computer would not take the initiative whenever a change should be needed. Nor could a computer call itself anything, but perhaps students would refer to it as being an “institution” machine or “program-tied.”

Along this same line, I would make certain that the following statement be dropped from the 1967 Wildcat Handbook, quoting Dr. Harold Taylor, philosophy professor and a past president of the Board of Trustees of Sarah Lawrence, in a Saturday Review article: “At its best, education is a series of private conversations in which all sham, pretense and intellectual hypocrisy or name-dropping is stripped away and the student is free to respond with honesty to the intellectual and personal situation in which he finds himself. This is why it is so important to keep the student’s situation as free of educational formalities as possible, to insist upon some version of the tutorial system, to resist all efforts to build an impersonal administrative community, to assure that the student and the teacher are known to each other and that the student may thus benefit from the fact that his individuality is known, recognized and respected.”

And the whir of machinery just might add a little dynamic quality to the office of the Dean.dean of students. 
Joe Bentley ‘68 
Davidson College 

If Prof. McMillin had read further in the same issue, he would have noticed that the Student Council immediately initiated a Campus Safety Committee to work with Grover Meetze's office toward preventing in the future such disasters as the fire and the injuries due to slick walks in January. As for examinations, I don’t see how in the world Prof. McMillin can claim flexibility for the present policy. How about the poor student who misses two or three examinations due to sickness? Is it fair to make him miss most of his spring vacation just because he got sick at the wrong time, when he could take them at the professor’s convenience under the honor system? Surely Prof. McMillin will admit that the memorizing necessary for any exam is much more difficult after two months. Besides, if the purpose of an examination is to make the student draw together the material in the course in some sort of logical continuity, it is obvious that he can do this much better while the material is fresh in his mind.

In a couple of weeks, the CRAP Committee is going to present a report based on the concept that a college should try to develop responsible citizens and that this responsibility can best be learned through freedom. The committee is trying specifically to separate the important issues, such as drinking, from the small ones, such as not closing the door to Phi Hall. Hopefully Prof. McMillin was not serious about some of what he said. Without drawing this letter out to great length (like some of us), I only hope that those who read the CRAP Committee’s report will do so with a more open mind and will carefully examine the maturity of the students.

John Williams,’69 
Davidson College

Looking Backward!
By GEOFF SEAMANS 
Associate Editor

Political Parallels

The watchword for the past few days in both national and campus life has been politics. In New Hampshire, the candidacy of Eugene McCarthy has, I hope, shown to the administration what is evident to everybody else — that the war in Vietnam is far from being a national crusade in the minds of the American electorate. On the other side of the ledger, the Republican party has indicated that it prefers to follow its death wish and nominate Richard Nixon, one of the few Republicans who could conceivably lose to Johnson. Apparently, a majority of Republicans in New Hampshire were convinced that this is indeed a new Nixon and were sufficiently assured that he now knows how to avoid five o'clock shadow on television.

The results of the elections currently being conducted on the Davidson campus exhibit a certain parallel to events in New Hampshire. Hopefully, the success of Joe Murphy’s candidacy, like the success of McCarthy’s, has pointed out to the administration dissatisfaction with the way things are done, in this case with regard to the present structure of rules and regulations at Davidson. Certainly, Murphy’s election has proved, like Nixon’s, that slickness is not essential for election to office. It would be misleading to carry the parallel too far. For one thing, there is a chance of concrete results from the campus elections. McCarthy has a long way to go, I fear, before he will be considered enough of a threat by the national administration to make it change its ways. For another thing, not a whole lot of people really give a damn what Davidson does with its drinking rule, for example; what happens in Vietnam, on the other hand, could conceivably make some difference twenty years from now.

Local Poll

I took an informal poll yesterday of the important people around Davidson, to measure public opinion concerning the general state of things in America and at Davidson. The first person I talked to was the grim baker. (I started the polling fairly late at night.) He seems to favor a return to small-town living and middle-class virtues. He also expressed a desire that the Negro race might return to their proper station in the great chain of being. He further favors strong anti-trust laws against North Carolina bread manufacturers.

Hattie Morgan echoed the grim baker’s views about the role of black people in American society, apparently believing the Southern redneck to be the backbone of American society. She also came up with an original proposal to enhance the quality of American life, suggesting that an injunction be brought against the Southern Railroad to constrain the line from running trains on the Thursday night before Spring Frolics. She also seemed quite adamant in her opposition to any form of beer sales within the town of Davidson.

I also attempted to poll the phantom caller, whom I ran into at the Hub during Humanities period. However, he was too engrossed in his Marvel comic book to answer any questions.

Students Favor More Changes

The loser in a student body election has one consolation: the time he spent campaigning could certainly have been spent in a less profitable way. In fact, I think I learned more about the student body in one week than I have in a whole year of reporting Student Council meetings. Most students seem very enthused about the elections this year. Almost everybody, especially freshmen, were eager to devote a half hour to discussing what Davidson needs most. Maybe the new constitution has awakened some interest. Maybe it was the large number of candidates for president. Maybe it was Tom Earnhardt. Or Joe Murphy. But whatever it was, I hope it will continue throughout the year.

Most students seem aware that next year will be a big year for Davidson. They are also aware that students now have an increasingly important role to play in campus affairs. So the logical conclusion is that they might as well satisfy as many gripes at once as they can.

Pass-Fail Has No Effect
By Intercollegiate Press Association

If you're an ‘A’ student, you find it hard to change your study habits to earn only a ‘C’ grade—even when that’s all that is necessary and all you want to achieve. This seems to be the result of an experimental ‘pass-fail’ option adopted by the University of Michigan College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Beginning last winter, seniors were permitted to take one course outside their major field of study on a pass-fail basis, with the credits to count toward graduation but not toward their grade-point average. This year the faculty has extended the privilege to juniors too. In general, students have welcomed the innovation as giving them a chance for academic exploration. But compilation of grades achieved by 178 of the 203 students who took advantage of the option in its first year indicates that the “good students” did their usual level of work in the pass-fail course. The pass-fail students were in the same classes as students taking the course under the traditional grading and credit system. The level of performance of the pass-fail students in the courses was similar to their general grade point average for all work taken in the university.

Charles Pascal, a research associate who conducted the study for the Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, said “We were surprised that students were not more adept at playing this new academic game.” He said that even though the students sought only to achieve a passing level their previous years of “academic conditioning” made it difficult if not impossible to do so. The students themselves were surprised, he says. One pass-fail student expressed it this way: “I'm trying hard not to work and I still made a B-plus on the midterm exam. I find myself trying to do the minimum amount of work to get a C. Otherwise I am frustrated that I am wasting time in the (pass-fail) course that I could be spending on the other courses (in which grades are recorded).” Pascal recommends ‘pass-fail sections, in which all students are enrolled on the pass-fail system.

Students have some good ideas and suggestions, too. They are especially conscious of the living conditions, since this is what they feel affects them the most. They are rather undecided about the new curriculum, for the most part, but they do know that the dormitories are pretty terrible. They are tired of the college’s hypocrisy about the drinking rule, which they only pretend to enforce and which they know students constantly disobey. They are tired of the administration's supporting an outworn in loco parentis attitude toward the students. They want to prove they are budding young geniuses outside the classroom as well as inside. Of course, they don’t go around shouting it all over God’s heaven. They are willing to leave the work to their student government representatives. But they do want to see the changes, and they want to see them soon. After all, college is for the students, isn't it?

They are thinking in other areas too. They have opinions about chapel, the Union food, lounges in the dorms, open dorms, the cut system, examination policy, symposiums and Lingle Manor. The opinions are not uniform, but the important thing is that they are thinking.

Letters To Editor

Letters received by four p.m. Wednesday will ordinarily be printed in that week's issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The editors reserve the right to hold letters from publication until a later date if adequate space is not available. The editors also reserve the right to make corrections for spelling and grammar, and to cut letters of more than 250 words in length.

Here is a great untapped resource for student government leaders to explore in the coming year. That is, if they are willing to spare a little of their precious time. Next year will be a year of change, that's for sure. But if the leaders of various campus organizations will stay on their toes all year, they may be able to initiate some good projects and ensure a lot more change. Even if they have to step on a few toes to do it.

Fasting At Smith Protests Vietnam
By Collegiate Press Service

More than half the students at Smith College have just completed a three-day fast against the war in Vietnam. The 1,285 girls, all wearing green armbands, were allowed liquids such as fruit juices and bouillon during the three-day period, but not solid food or milk. A number of faculty members and townspeople were also fasting. According to one of the organizers, Kathy Green, the fast was partly intended “to dispel the public's image of the typical college dissenter as merely a draft-dodger concerned with the safety of his own skin.”