| Tar Heels Ruin ’Cat Hopes; | Davidson Shines In Defeat By DON SEWELL Associate Editor It all came to a close Saturday night in Raleigh. Davidson's dream of a trip to Los Angeles and a shot at the really big boys was shattered when the ‘Cats came out on the short end of a 70-66 decision against North Carolina. In the intensely fought contest, the closeout of a magnificent weekend of basketball, Davidson put an end to another dream. They proved beyond question that Wildcat basketball compares with the calibre of ball played in the Atlantic Coast Conference.

Saturday Night, Lefty Was Great By DALE GIBSON in The Daily Tar Heel (UNC-CH) Perhaps the classic statement made at the Eastern Regionals was this one: “I really don’t have much to say.” Not profound, you say? Not anything big, you figure? Well, stop and consider it came from Lefty Driesell, that colorful and vociferous coach of the Davidson Wildcats. He was a gentleman. He accepted the Carolina defeat with composure and humility. There he was, standing in front of the legion of sportswriters and sportscasters, in his blazing red sports jacket. “We are disappointed that we lost. We think our kids played a fine game,” Driesell said with a hurt look on his face. Then came the ultimate. The statement least likely to be heard from Lefty Driesell. “We got beat tonight by the third best team in the country and they might be the best before it’s over. We hope they go all the way.” You see Driesell is a character. Cassius Clay is a character and so is Dizzy Dean. They all tell people how great they are. Diz and Cassius can back themselves up. Diz was a great pitcher and Clay is probably one of the best fighters ever to corral himself inside the ropes. And Lefty's baseball team. Well, it's very good. Great? Decide that for yourself. The fact is that Lefty was great Saturday night. He was ready to praise the team that beat him and he stood up for his boys. “I'm not but 35 and I'll be up there in the finals one day and I think some of these kids will be there,” he said. You see, all year, Lefty had a dream. He dreamed about the California sun and the fun he and his boys would have on the slats in the LA Sports Arena. Well, it's over now. He had set three goals for his team. First, win the Southern Conference Championship. Second, get back in the top ten. Third, go to the national finals. He came close. He had the desire—a desire he instilled in his team. They were ready for the Southern Conference Tournament. They were ready for the Eastern Playoffs and by golly, they were ready for the Eastern Regionals. They were beaten there though—by a better team and he said so. After the game Saturday night, the obviously pained Davidson players watched as the Tar Heels accepted the winners’ trophy. Driesell said, “Yes, I'm taking the loss hard. The boys are taking it hard and I want them to because we were shooting for the national championship. Saturday night, it all became apparent what Lefty Driesell is. More of the same can be expected next season. He is a man who took an athletically poor little college and built it into a basketball giant. He had a dream and the desire to go along with it. But he’s a character. He opens his mouth a little too much. He tells people just how great his team is and most folks don’t like this—including me until Saturday night when the real Lefty Driesell stood up.

FROM THE BENCH ___ ROCKY CROSSWHITE The highly partisan UNC crowd found itself with little to say in the first half of the championship game with the scorned Davidson team. The ‘Cats put together a vicious defense, a disciplined offense and an overwhelming rebounding display to dominate the half and give the Tar Heels something to think about during the intermission. The Heels were a better team in the second half. Their defense was tighter and their board play was stronger. They were able to get their running offense going, and it was clear that Davidson would have to fight to maintain their lead. Not once in the entire game did the ‘Cats stop fighting. They fought back to cut a nine-point deficit to two points with 18 seconds left to play. But they could not pull it off. UNC had won another in the homestretch. It was a hard loss for the Wildcats to take. Tar Heel class had outlasted the ‘Cat determination. All-America Larry Miller had sparked UNC's big rally. Charlie Scott had calmly played a great game. Rusty Clark played a terrific tournament, good enough to earn the Outstanding Player Award. For the Wildcats, Mike Maloy, team leader throughout the season, earned a spot on the all-tournament team. Dave Moser played his usual relaxed and effective floor game. Jerry Kroll played an important role in the ‘Cats’ early lead over the Tar Heels. Rod Knowles closed out his collegiate career by playing more determined basketball than ‘Cat fans had seen all season. Mike O'Neill, playing in his familiar substitute position, did all that could be expected from him. He shot well and did a great job rebounding against the big men like Clark and Bunting. All the Wildcats were intensely disappointed after the loss. But perhaps most affected was Doug Cook. The second leading scorer all season, Cook had to watch it all, Saturday. The injury he suffered the night before caused him to miss the game he and the team had most looked forward to. The Eastern Regional Tournament lived up to its billing as one of the best in the country. Those who were there saw great basketball. UNC will definitely represent the East well in L.A.

Doug Cook Sore, But Improving Sophomore Doug Cook, who suffered a “hip pointer” in Friday night’s game with Columbia, is showing signs of gradual improvement. Cook, the team's second leading scorer and rebounder, missed most of the Columbia game and the entire UNC game as a result of the injury, suffered in a collision with Columbia's Roger Waleszek. Cook noted that he was still hampered in his movement by the bruise, but he said he thought it was improving.

& & it’s all over now, for this year, anyway. The numbers on the scoreboard Saturday night seemed like a poor excuse to end a great season, but those are the rules. Yet, for us the players, it’s hard to believe the season is over. I'm sure the other players, like myself, catch themselves asking what time practice is every day this week. Last weekend in Raleigh was a succession of hope and despair. We arrived in town on Thursday afternoon and had a hard workout that evening in the coliseum. There was an air of caution and confidence during the practice which was to stay with us through the end Saturday night. We stayed at the Statler Hilton Motel, which had everything from a “by appointment only” barber shop to a private night club in the basement. But unlike some of our other road trips we were always thinking about the tournament, about Columbia, and especially about Carolina. Against Columbia on Friday night we played well even though they had a chance to end the tournament for us with two seconds left. Some of the Davidson players told me I should put Bruce Metz (the Columbia player who missed the foul shot with two seconds remaining) on my all-American skin team, but I couldn’t because he played a good game before that incident. The calling of two successive timeouts before Metz’s foul shot turned out to be a smart tactic despite the statement by Columbia’s coach that it wasn’t in very good taste. To answer this, I can only quote Lefty who said, “if it is in the rules, then it’s legal and it’s fair. Columbia could have done the same to us if the situation had arisen.” Friday's victory over Columbia brought us both hope and despair. Now we had a chance at North Carolina but we also lost Doug Cook who injured himself diving after a loose ball. The importance of this loss is illustrated by the way Doug blocked Columbia’s 7-1 Dave Newmark’s layup before he injured himself. This is taking nothing away from Rodney Knowles who played a great game Saturday night, but Maloy and Cook, having played together most of the season, know each other’s moves both offensively and defensively. For 40 minutes on Saturday night we had some Carolina fans very worried, especially the first 30 minutes. Here was this “out-classed team” from some small “brain” college somewhere near Charlotte with only a thousand students beating their big university heroes. When Larry Miller, Carolina’s All-American forward, told sportswriters after the game that he wasn’t worried when Davidson was leading at the half, he begins to sound like a “Compoz” tranquilizer commercial on the radio. Or don't you “take that off anyone” either, Larry? But despite cool, calm, and collected Larry Miller, the North Carolina players as well as their fans knew Davidson was there and that they probably will be back next year. I hate to think we have to revert to the proverbial “wait till next year” cliché but that seems our only alternative. So, “Carolina, wait till next year, we'll be back.” Signed: The Davidson Basketball Team.

Pembroke Edges By Cindermen By BILL BERRY Sports Writer The Wildcat trackmen narrowly lost to Pembroke 78-67 Tuesday in a meet which featured balanced scoring by both teams. Each team took at least one of the three places in each event.For two. Netters Slam Presbyterian, Breeze By Kent State, 9-0

Playing without their number one player, George Berner, in singles competition, the ‘Cat netters took a 6-0 lead, and then with Berner's help, toppled Kent State's doubles team, 3-0, to make it a clean sweep.

Team captain Pinky Hatcher assumed Berner’s number one position and crushed KSU’s top-seeded player, Denny Zamberian, in two sets, 6-0, 6-2. In number two singles, Davidson’s Dan Hearon had his troubles overcoming State's John Tingley, as he posted match scores of 2-6, 7-5, 8-6. Freshman Jim Cantrell took number three singles, 6-1, 6-0, over Joel Schackne, while David Jennings overcame Karl Heinselman in number four singles, 4-6, 6-2, 6-1. Bruce Weidner defeated Jim Lahl 6-3, 6-3 and Steve Hemphill took two sets from KSU’s Rick Barker, 6-4, 8-6.

Berner, who had been given a rest during singles competition by Coach Harry Fogelman, returned to team up with Hatcher in number one doubles competition to demolish KSU's team of Zamberlan and Tingley, 6-1, 6-0. Hearon and Randy Jones took Kent State's Schackne-Henselman duo in number two doubles, 9-7, 6-2, and Jennings and Weidner swept Lahl and Barker in the third doubles match, 6-2, 6-3.

Monday, the ‘Cats traveled to Clinton, S. C., for a match with Presbyterian’s Blue Hose netters. They took the match, but not without some problems, by a score of 6-3. Berner took the number one singles, 6-4, 6-4, over Presbyterian’s South American star, Jim Amaya. Woody Faulk, Cantrell, and Jennings also posted wins in the singles competition. Berner and Hatcher were outpointed in the number one doubles competition, but Hearon and Jones evened things up with a win in the number two match, 6-4, 6-3. Faulk and Cantrell picked up a win in the final double play also by a 6-4, 6-3 score.

Maloy Bypasses Olympic Tryouts

Davidson's Mike Maloy has decided to decline an invitation to participate in the U.S. Olympic team basketball trials. Maloy based his decision to turn down the offer on the amount of time it would take away from his class work. "It was my cut situation,” Maloy said. “We had quite a few because of basketball and I don't want to do anything that would jeopardize my status for next year.” Maloy also was named recently to Bucknell’s all-opponent team, LaSalle’s Larry Cannon in the voting for most outstanding opponent.

The Davidsonian Baseballers Fall

March 21, 1968 Page Three

To Adelphi Nine

By BILL TRAXLER Sports Writer

Overwhelmed by a strong hitting attack and hampered by a lack of depth in pitching, the Davidson baseball team fell to Adelphi University yesterday afternoon, 8-3. The Adelphi nine, which defeated the University of North Carolina's strong team Monday, picked up four runs apiece from ‘Cat hurlers John Riggs and Macky Reavis. It was the third loss in as many outings for the Davidson nine, but it was a hard-hitting Wildcat team which fell to Adelphi. Sophomore third baseman Gordon Slade became the first Davidson player to hit a home run out of the team's new field since it was constructed in 1966. Slade’s blast in the first inning came after Frank Murphy had singled and sailed over the 355-foot marker in left field. The ‘Cat nine scored again in the third inning. Reavis, who relieved Riggs in the top of the inning, led off the barrage with a triple to left center. It was followed by singles by Frank Murphy and Cliff Patterson, and he scored on Slade’s sacrifice fly to center field. Three runs were all that the ‘Cats were able to muster, as they were unable to put a hitting attack together late in the game, when Adelphi tagged Reavis for four runs. Reavis was relieved by freshman Wade Shepherd in the seventh inning.

Previously this week the ‘Cats absorbed their second loss in a row to Pfeiffer College, this time by a 10-7 score. They had dropped a game to the Misenheimer squad, 7-5, before that. Next week the ‘Cats leave for their spring tour in Florida, playing Armstrong, Jacksonville, and Ga. Southern.

Defensive Stars Sign Grid Grants

Two high school football standouts have signed grants-in-aid with Davidson, according to Coach Dave Fagg. Robert Norris, a Statesville linebacker, captained his team this season, and ranks third in a class of 326. “He's rugged,” says Fagg, “and not many people like to play against him.” A Burlington end-tackle, Steve Baldwin, will probably play defensive end or interior lineman for the ‘Cats. A 6-3, 210-pounder, he was on the North Carolina Shrine Bowl team last fall.

MONEY: THE STORY OF AN ENGINEER

We all know, of course, that in this age of technology every engineering senior is receiving fabulous offers of employment, but do we realize just how fabulous these offers are? Do we comprehend just how keenly industry is competing? To illustrate, let me cite the true and typical case of E. Pluribus Ewbank, a true and typical senior. One day last week while strolling across the M.I.T. campus, E. Pluribus was hailed by a portly and prosperous man who sat in a yellow convertible studded with precious gemstones. “Hello,” said the portly and prosperous man, “I am Portly Prosperous, president of American Xerographic Data Processing and Birth Control, Incorporated. Are you a senior?” “Yes, sir,” said E. Pluribus. “Do you like this car?” said Portly. “Yes, sir,” said E. Pluribus. “It’s yours,” said Portly. “Thanks, hey,” said E. Pluribus. “Do you like Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades?” said Portly. “What clean living, clean-shaven American does not?” said E. Pluribus. “Here is a pack,” said Portly. “And a new pack will be delivered to you every twelve minutes as long as you live.” “Thanks, hey,” said E. Pluribus. “Would your wife like a mink coat?” said Portly. “I feel sure she would,” said E. Pluribus, “but I am not married.” “Do you want to be?” said Portly. “What clean living, clean-shaven American does not?” said E. Pluribus. Portly pressed a button on the dashboard of the convertible and the trunk opened up and out came a nubile maiden with golden hair, rosy knees, a perfect disposition, and the appendix already removed. “This is Svetlana O'Toole,” said Portly. “Would you like to marry her?” “Is her appendix out?” said E. Pluribus. “Yes,” said Portly. “Okay, hey,” said E. Pluribus. “Congratulations,” said Portly. “And for the happy bride, a set of 300 monogrammed prawn forks.” “Thanks, hey,” said Svetlana. “Now then,” said Portly to E. Pluribus, “let us get down to business. My company will start you at $75,000 a year. You will retire at full salary upon reaching the age of 26. We will give you an eleven-story house made of lapis lazuli, each room to be stocked with edible furniture. Your children will receive a pack of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades every twelve minutes as long as they shall live. We will keep your teeth in good repair and also the teeth of your wife and children unto the third generation. We will send your dentist a pack of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades every twelve minutes as long as he shall live, and thereafter to his heirs and assigns... Now, son, I want you to think carefully about this offer. Meanwhile here is 50 thousand dollars in small, unmarked bills which places you under no obligation whatsoever.” “Well, it certainly seems like a fair offer,” said E. Pluribus. “But there is something you should know. I am not an engineer. In fact, I don’t go to M.I.T. at all. I just walked over here to admire the trees. I am at Harvard, majoring in Joyce Kilmer.” “Oh,” said Portly. “I guess I don’t get to keep the money and the convertible and the Personnas and the broad, do I?” said E. Pluribus. “Of course you do,” said Portly. “And if you'd like the job, my offer still stands.”