REPORT EXAMINES STUDENT ACTIVISTS (See Page Three)

VOL. LVI

MIDWINTERS IS OVER
And campus scenes like this are a rarity again. A few memories are all that remain... along with the anticipation of Spring Frolics, weeks away. (Photo by Bob McKellar).

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1968
NUMBER EIGHTEEN

SOME WEAKNESSES, HOWEVER

INSIDE A ‘CAT PRACTICE SESSION (See Page Five)

Davidson’s Life Preparation ‘Fairly Good’
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Davidson does a fairly good job of preparing its students for life after graduation. That was the general opinion voiced this week by four Davidson professors — Dr. William B. Hight, director of student counseling and associate professor of education; Dr. John D. Kelton, professor of psychology; Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, associate professor of philosophy; and Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology.

The professors did note some weaknesses in the Davidson program, however. “I am not sure whether the Davidson student is prepared for the values and attitudes required,” Kelton said. “If there are not too many major changes in our society in the next ten years, then the graduates are pretty well prepared. But if there are major changes, then I don't know whether they'll be well prepared or not.”

MacCormac said that he didn't think any college did an adequate job of preparing its students for life after graduation. “The neglect of fine arts is a serious problem,” he said.

On the other hand, Hight and Workman pointed to the success of Davidson graduates as evidence that Davidson was doing a good job. “It certainly suggests that we don't handicap our students,” Workman said. “But,” he said, “the basic question is — ‘Is the success of our graduates due to the kind of students we attract or to what happened during the school year?’”

“Davidson students would cope pretty well with the world whether they had a Davidson education or not,” Kelton said.

All four professors said that they thought that the Davidson graduates were well prepared academically, pointing out that most students go on to graduate schools and do well. Nonetheless, they stressed that there were certain areas in which Davidson needed improvement.

“One weakness is the lack of an obvious commitment on the part of the college to the social sciences and to social justice,” said MacCormac. “You can see this just by the size of the political science and sociology departments, both of which are small compared to some of the others.”

“We desperately need to have the ability to appreciate another culture,” said MacCormac. “And in the twentieth century it makes a lot more sense to have the coed system than to segregate by sexes.”

“We ought to be playing a much more sizable role in educating Negroes if we expect to have responsible Negro leaders in the South,” he said.

Both MacCormac and Kelton recommended integration of the educational process, Kelton pointing out in particular the need for interdisciplinary seminars.

Hight, Kelton, MacCormac, and Workman all said that they thought the Blue Sky proposals would bring about considerable improvements.

Council Accepts Bylaws
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council Tuesday approved unanimously certain parts of the bylaws to the new Student Government Association (SGA) constitution which were presented to them by Mike Bates, chairman of the Constitution Revision Committee.

The filing date for the first set of student body elections was set for Thursday, and the first day of voting for March 6. Offices to be voted on in these elections include SGA president, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, editor of Quips and Cranks, and Honor Court members.

The entire student body can vote for SGA president and DAVIDSONIAN editor. The Quips and Cranks editor will be elected by the rising senior class, and Honor Court members will be elected by members of their respective classes.

The filing dates and election days for other elections will be announced as they (See ELECTIONS, Page 6)

Drink Rule Enforcement Lacks Personnel--Burts
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

Davidson College has not been able to implement its policy of stricter enforcement of the drinking regulations. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said Wednesday that this was due to unsuccessful attempts to secure the proper personnel.

The policy, announced in December 1966, called for additional security officers on weekends and other special times to provide stricter enforcement. Burts said that the college had not been able to find the right type of security officers for the job. “We felt that it would not be in the best interests of the college to get just anybody,” he said. “Therefore, we have not been able to implement the policy.”

The additional security officers, from the Burns Detective Agency’s Charlotte branch, are employed for dance weekends to supplement existing security officers, Burts said. Their primary duties are to check student identifications and to keep order. They do not receive any special instructions from the Dean's Office, Burts said. He also pointed out that the rounds are made at the fraternity court during the night to enforce the curfew in the fraternity houses.

“Our present security men are doing a fine job,” he said, “but they do not have the time to carry out stricter enforcement of the drinking rules along with their present duties. If they do run across an obvious violation of the rule, action is taken, but we don't send them out in search of violations,” he said.

Burts added that so far the college has been able to depend on the responsibility of the student body in obeying the rules. Burts said that his office was aware that some students are drinking on campus, but that at present additional security officers have not been found to enforce the drinking rule more stringently.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, February 24
10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Puppet Show Hodson Hall “The Story of Dick Whittington”
3 p.m. Drama Production Love Auditorium “Stop the World — I Want to Get Off”
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball Charlotte Coliseum Davidson vs. King's College
8:15 p.m. Varsity Basketball Charlotte Coliseum Davidson vs. Tulane

Sunday, February 25
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service Davidson Methodist Church Leonis McGlohon Jazz Pianist

Tuesday, February 27
7 p.m. German Films

Wednesday, February 28
8:15 p.m. Free Concert Jose Luis Arcaraz Pianist

Thursday, February 29
10:20 a.m. Chapel Dome Room Hodson Hall Love Auditorium Dr. Theodore M. Brown Cornell University
8 p.m. Southern Conference Basketball Tournament Charlotte Coliseum

Elections Schedule

TO BE ELECTED DATE OF ELECTION
SGA President March 6
DAVIDSONIAN Editor March 6
Quips & Cranks Editor March 6
Honor Court Each Class March 6
SGA Vice President March 13
YMCA President March 13
YMCA Vice President March 13
YMCA Secretary March 13
YMCA Treasurer March 13
Defense Adviser March 13
Freshman Adviser March 13
Class Senators March 18
Cheerleaders March 18

Note: Filing dates for each office will be the Wednesday before the election.election.

Selection Committee Sets Up Procedures To Name President
By CHARLES McEWEN
Copy Editor

As speculation about candidates for the Davidson presidency continues, Walter L. Lingle Jr. and three committees set up some procedures for the selection process. In a letter to the college community, Lingle, chairman of the Board of Trustees and its Presidential Nominating Committee, said that the committee had compiled a list of about 30 presidential prospects. The trustee committee will meet in “early March, at which time we hope to have developed much more complete and systematic information about the prospects on our list,” Lingle said. The trustee committee has set no definite time limit in which it expects to select and secure a new president, according to Lingle. A time limit “could be detrimental to our ability to obtain the best man.”

At a joint meeting of the trustee committee, the Faculty Advisory Committee, and the Student Advisory Committee on Feb. 12, the three agreed not to issue any public statements of their progress. Lingle listed four reasons for this action:
— The people whom the committees will ask for candid opinions about a particular presidential prospect “are not likely to be candid unless they feel sure that their opinions will be held in complete confidence.”
— “Public comments and reports from these committees can give rise to publicity and speculation about specific individuals who are prospects.”
— “The best prospects for the presidency will probably have to be sought after by us rather than seeking the position themselves.”
— “Publicity and speculation about a prospect can be detrimental to a prospect's standing in the academic world if he is made to appear a leading candidate for the presidency and then is not invited to be.”

Lingle said that if any group should form an opposing faction to a presidential candidate, such a man would probably be reluctant to accept the job if it were offered. Some opposition of this type appeared last week in a satiric list of presidential qualifications, written anonymously, and sent to members of the faculty. “Publicity can put a prospect in the position of appearing to seek the Davidson presidency, and this could be detrimental to our chances of obtaining the best man,” Lingle said. Lingle had asked members of all three presidential selection committees not to comment when asked publicly about committees’ activities. At the close of his letter, Lingle said, “I am a firm believer in freedom of speech and freedom of the press... If our committees seem to be closemouthed about our activities... I hope that you will understand and respect our policy.”

Social Chairmen: Parties Expensive But Necessary
By DAVID SWEATT
Staff Writer

Off-campus fraternity parties are expensive, but at present there is no alternative, according to three fraternity social chairmen. They estimated that fraternities spend from $800 to $1,500 each in a single year just for renting various places for parties. A fraternity may hold 13 to 16 parties a year. Social chairmen estimated that the average rental for a party place is about $100. Rents usually vary from $45 to $130 per night. Rental fees are less at the smaller places which can accommodate only one fraternity. Larger rooms bring a higher rent, but they offer party space for more than one fraternity. Few party places are located near Davidson, and parties may be held as far away as Statesville, Charlotte, or Concord-Kannapolis.

Steve Sands, Phi Delta Theta social chairman, said he believes that prices for party rooms have increased in recent years. He attributes this to an increasing demand for such facilities, accompanied by the closing of some of the lower-priced places. Pi Kappa Alpha social chairman Duncan McRae complained that exorbitant prices are asked for mixers at some of the places used by fraternities. At these places, a pledge to buy mixers from the management is a prerequisite for renting the facilities. According to Harry Hamil, Sigma Chi social chairman, there is no rule prohibiting parties in the fraternities’ houses. No parties are held there because of existing rules which prohibit the consumption of alcohol on campus. Sands, McRae, and Hamil felt that the repeal of these prohibitory rules on alcoholic beverages would result in the use of fraternity houses for parties. Cocktail parties and lawn and patio parties at the houses would save hundreds of dollars each year in the fraternities’ social budgets, according to all three social chairmen. In addition, fraternity members could be saved much of the inconvenience and danger of driving long distances before and after parties, they said.

Several students are arrested each year for drunken driving while on their way to and from the parties, the social chairmen said. They also noted that most of the parties are held late at night—after the college-sponsored concerts—which adds considerably to the element of danger. Sands said that the College Union could be much more successful under a less stringent liquor rule. He cited last weekend's Ben E. King dance as the type of entertainment that students stay on campus for if it were not for existing campus alcohol consumption rules.

UNC's Phillips: ‘Not Candidate’
Dean J. Dickson Phillips of the UNC Law School said he is “not a candidate for president of the college” in a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week. The 1943 Davidson graduate and former law partner of ex-Governor Terry Sanford said he has not been approached by any agent of the college regarding the presidency which Dr. D. Grier Martin will vacate on June 30. Campus rumor had Phillips as a candidate supported unofficially by alumni groups, but he said he has been approached by no such groups in regard to his possible candidacy. A North Carolina native, Phillips was a member of Kappa Sigma and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa while he was a Davidson student.

2 Named Wilson Fellows
By BATES, COCHRAN

Two seniors have been named Woodrow Wilson Fellows for 1968-69, one of the highest academic honors a prospective graduate student can receive. They are Mike Bates of Norfolk, Va., and Gus Cochran of Athens, Ga. This year the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation reports that it is seeking the “best future college teacher prospects on the continent” through its selection processes. In previous years the foundation has supported the first year of graduate study of Woodrow Wilson Fellows. Now it is seeking primarily to select top students, leaving most of the financial support to the graduate schools which the fellows may attend.

Bates is chairman of the YMCA’s Stimulus program, chairman of the student body Constitution Revision Committee, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He is a philosophy major. Cochran is president of the Interfraternity Council and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, and Kappa Alpha. He is a political science major. Out of 11,000 applicants, 1,000 college students were designated as fellows. Eighteen Davidson students were recommended by faculty members for the awards last fall.