Page Four October 18, 1968 The Davidsonian

Scholarship Grants Offer Aid For Grad Students
By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

Each year millions of dollars in scholarship funds are made available to eligible graduate students, but academic achievement is only one requirement: others are persistence, knowing where and when to apply, and luck.

About 70 percent of Davidson graduates go into graduate or professional work of some kind. Since most of the grants given are in the form of departmental aid from a graduate school, a student seeking a grant for advanced study should work closely with a professor of the department containing the area in which the student plans to do graduate work. The professor would be most familiar with the necessary information.

Many sizeable grants in national fellowship competitions, however, require institutional nomination of the applicant by his college. At Davidson, nominations are made by the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships, whose membership includes Professors George L. Abernethy (chairman), R. D. Bernard, Joe C. Embry, Locke White, Malcolm Lester, and Associate Dean of the Faculty J. H. Oswalt.

Dr. Abernethy urges students who are interested in being nominated for a fellowship to contact him as soon as possible. Any member of the committee may be approached by a student for advice. Dr. Abernethy is the campus liaison officer for the Danforth Graduate Fellowships and the Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. The Danforth Fellowships are open to men who are seriously interested in college teaching as a career, and who plan to study for a PhD in a field related to the undergraduate college. Applicants may not have undertaken any graduate or professional study beyond the baccalaureate.

Candidates from Davidson, which ranks tenth in the nation in graduates receiving Danforth Fellowships, must be nominated by the Faculty Committee by Nov. 1. In March, 1969, about 120 Fellowships, including tuition fees, and living stipends of up to $2400 ($2950, if married) will be awarded to selected students.

Woodrow Wilson Fellowships provide one year of graduate work. Besides the 150 Fellowships actually given annually, the program designates 1000 other applicants as "worthy of fellowships," and circulates the list among graduate schools.

United States Government grants for graduate study or research, or for study and professional training in the creative and performing arts abroad have been cut greatly for the fiscal year 1969. Competition for these grants, administered by the Institute of International Education, will be much keener. Final applications must be filed with Professor Embry by Oct. 30. Juniors interested in this program are urged to begin their basic preparations as soon as possible so that they will be able to process their applications without difficulty.

Anyone interested in a Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowship should contact Dr. Abernethy immediately.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, October 19
All Day - Davidson-Queens Retreat, Montreat, N.C.
3 p.m. - Soccer: Davidson vs. East Carolina, Soccer Field
8:15 p.m. - New Cinema: BES

Sunday, October 20
All Day - Davidson-Queens Retreat, Montreat, N.C.
7:30 p.m. - Worship Service, Lingle Chapel

Monday, October 21
1-6 p.m. - Quips and Cranks Photos, Green Room
7 p.m. - Investment Club, Chambers B3
8 p.m. - Stimulus Group Meetings, Fraternity Houses

Tuesday, October 22
10 a.m. - Assembly: Rabbi Randall Falk, Love Auditorium
1-6 p.m. - Quips and Cranks Photos, Green Room
3 p.m. - Soccer: Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey
8 p.m. - Movie: "Taming of the Shrew," Morrison Room

Wednesday, October 23
10 a.m. - Lecture: Prof. W. T. Jones, Pomona College, Perkins Auditorium
1-6 p.m. - Quips and Cranks Photos, Green Room
8 p.m. - Foreign Studies Program, Morrison Room
10 p.m. - Union Coffee House, Snackbar

Thursday, October 24
10 a.m. - Assembly: Reynolds Lecturer, Mr. Ralph Ellison, author, Love Auditorium
1-6 p.m. - Quips and Cranks Photos, Green Room
8 p.m. - Movie: "Taming of the Shrew," Morrison Room

Friday, October 25
10 a.m. - Stammtisch, Snackbar
1-6 p.m. - Quips and Cranks Photos, Green Room
8:15 p.m. - Miquel Alcaraz, Mexican Guitarist, Hodson Hall

Covington Takes Post At Sterling Institute

Thomas L. Covington Jr., assistant to the president, will join the staff of the Behavioral Science Center of Sterling Institute, a private educational company in Boston, Mass., on November 1. The center, a subsidiary of the institute, is devoted to basic and applied research in the behavioral sciences, including such areas as motivation, leadership, achievement, organizational climate, and related areas.

Covington, a native of Rockingham, graduated from Davidson in 1961 and later obtained an M.S. degree from N.C. State in guidance and personnel services. During 1961-65, he was assistant director of student activities at North Carolina State University. He came to Davidson in 1965 as assistant dean of students and fraternity liaison officer, becoming in 1966 assistant director of the College Union. He assumed his present post June 1.

Style Talk In Perkins

Pomona College philosophy professor and author Dr. W. T. Jones will speak next Wednesday morning at 10 in Perkins Auditorium on “Styles and World Views." Jones is a graduate of Swarthmore and a Rhodes Scholar. He received a PhD from Princeton. He has held Guggenheim and Ford Foundation fellowships for research, and his books include "Morality and Freedom in Kant" and "A History of Western Philosophy."

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
BIFF FINE

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Cartoonist:
CULLUM ROGERS

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Brigade Officers Announced

The Davidson ROTC department has announced the cadet brigade officers for the first term. The brigade will be commanded by Cadet Lt. Col. Tony Orsbon. Orsbon will be assisted by the Brigade Executive Officer Woody Faulk. Members of the brigade staff include Grant Anderson, Jim Cooley, Garee Thomas, and John Clark.

Commanding officer of the First Battalion is George House, with Gary Deanhardt serving as executive officer. Company commanders for the first battalion are Dan Dean, A Company; Mike Johnson, B Company; John Liipfert, C Company; Andy Ratchford, D Company.

Commanding officer of the Second Battalion is Bob Apgar. His executive officer is Larry Slade. Company commanders include Alex Neisler, E Company; Greg Simmons, F Company; Sam Tallman, G Company; Tate Sterrett, H Company.

Arnold Hindin will command the Honor Guard while Sam Aycock will be in charge of the Band Company.Logical Fellowship should contact either Professor Abernethy or the college chaplain. This fellowship provides for a trial year of graduate study at a theological seminary and is designed for students wishing to explore the possibilities of studying for the ministry. Dr. Malcolm Lester is the campus representative for both the Rhodes Scholarships and the Marshall Scholarships. There have been 14 Rhodes Scholars from Davidson, and the Scholarship provides for graduate study at Oxford University, England, for two years, with a possibility of a one-year extension at the end of that period. Marshall Scholarships finance two years of work in any British University.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

BATES BOLD and BUCKLED
An updated classic in the Bates tradition, featuring imported Scottish Angus Aniline Veal upper feather. This handsome monk oxford will be a welcome addition to your shoe wardrobe. Treat yourself today to a pair at 28.95 Rush Wilson, Ltd. Davidson, N.C. Greenville, S.C.

OPEN HOUSE
The following faculty homes will be open to students this Sunday night at 8:
Grant 560 Lorimer
Jackson, Bruce 207 Crescent
Patterson, Brown 412 Concord
Polley 3 Ney Circle
Stroud 207 Pine
White, Locke 203 Lorimer
Woods 552 Lorimer

STEP Expands Tutoring, Stresses Creative Work
By REID SAMPSON
Staff Writer

Changes and innovations are in line as Project STEP, the Student Tutorial Education Program, begins its third year of tutoring culturally deprived children in the Davidson and Cornelius communities. Robert Pyeatt, chairman of the STEP committee, said that there would be new programs in addition to the tutorial program. He said STEP will sponsor a student-faculty seminar entitled “Perspectives on Poverty” headed by Stagg Newman, and possibly an after-school study center and seminar program for high school students. A daily recreational program at the local school like one presently run by Charlie Baker in the Cornelius community will be instituted if there is sufficient student participation.

Randy Phillips, head of the tutorial phase of STEP, mentioned changes that will promote a more tightly organized tutorial program. “The problem last year was that the organization didn't give support to tutors once they began. This year there will be two group sessions for new tutors where they will be introduced to tutoring techniques and given manuals and background reading. Results of our program were impossible to determine in the past, but this year we will conduct comprehensive evaluations of each student. More emphasis will be placed on creative work this year and less on academic techniques,” Phillips said.

A core of 15 tutors return this year and additions will be made from among 38 applicants. Tutors work with the children on an individual basis and devote an average of four hours a week. “Tutees” are selected from the third through sixth grades by elementary teachers for participation in the program. STEP is not geared for thorough academic tutoring but instead emphasizes the personal relationship between tutor and child. The expressed goal of the tutorial program is to “improve the tutee’s self-image and develop in him a better attitude toward school.”

Debaters Take Four Out Of Six
The debate team, coached by Ray McMillin, finished the six-round University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill tournament with a 4-2 record last weekend. Fletcher Hartsell and Gray Mason defeated Furman, Richmond, North Carolina, and Hampton Institute while losing to Emory and South Carolina. The topic was “Resolved: That the executive control of U.S. foreign policy should be significantly curtailed.” McMillin said that the team “is in better shape than ever.” McMillin attributed the improvement to the fact that the team returned to Davidson a week before school started to work eight hours a day on researching the debate topic. “Lack of background information and evidence has been a weak point for us in the past,” McMillin said. “We have lots of talent this year and are taking on the toughest tournaments we can find.”

This weekend Davidson will send Jim Cooley, Mason, Hartsell, and Jule Young to Auburn to battle with several other schools in an eight-round tournament. The most important tournament for the team this year will be the one held at Emory in the early part of November. A good showing here would bring in more invitations than the team could handle, said McMillin. The plans of the team include a novice tournament at Wake Forest, the sponsoring of a high school tourney at Davidson over the Thanksgiving Holidays, and matches with Alabama, Dartmouth, Georgia, Miami, N.Y.U., and Tulane.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

STUDENT POSITIONS OPEN
Sign up now to be considered by the Senate to serve on one of Dr. Spencer’s five Student-Faculty-Trustee Commissions. The Commissions are:
Commission on Coeducation
Commission on Social Patterns
Commission on Church Relationships
Commission on Extra Campus Responsibilities
Commission on Inter-collegiate Athletics

Sign up at the wall outside the office of the SGA President (second floor of the Union). If you want more information, see any of these Senators: Ed Dobbs, Dan Herd, Peter Hobbie, Frank Murphy, or Joe Murphy. The deadline for signing up is midnight, Thursday. Three students will be appointed to each commission.

Take it from the Colonel... “it's finger lickin’ good!”
Take home Kentucky Fried Chicken tonight. All you do is pick it up. The service is sudden.
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505

Campus Approved Bostonian Shoes
Come browse and see our fine selections in shoes, clothing, and accessories for the college man.
This Campus Classic Only 25.00
Our 56th Year
Mooresville — only 6 miles north

Contributors this week: Chris Bickley, Cecil Burney, Chris Sikes, Greg Mitchell, Sam Hay, Tom Sinks, John McLean, Steve Cross, John Carlson, Danny White, Ed Shoaf, Rob Krehbiel, John Rowe, Russ Merritt, Ed Dietrich, Don Parman, Bob Wallace, Steve Williams, Dan Graham, Jim Bailey, and Mike LePlante.