— To Start Or Not? With almost 6,000 season tickets already sold or accounted for, it appears that quite a
few people are expecting spectacular results out of the 1958-59 Davidson basketball team. For the team’s sake, I hope that
old business cliché, “The customer is always right,” is relevant here. With the exception of Rodney Knowles, who is now
up for sale by the Phoenix club, and Tom Youngdale, who is rumored to be in the Charlotte vicinity, last
year’s team is still intact. (We also lost Bob Pickens but subs don’t count). Many observers believe that the starting
team this year will be the same as last year’s. I’m not so sure. I won’t go as far as
to agree with Lefty’s pre-season statement to the team that “all starting positions are open.” But I will agree with
him that there could be one or two changes this year. Lefty told us that he wanted two good rebounders,
two good defensive players, and one good all-around player for his starting five and it appears he has yet to
make his final decision. Still, some things never change. Unless something happens to Maloy physically, he will definitely start. With
a fair jump shot he developed this summer and a wingspan between six and seven feet for blocking shots, Mike’s
a sure bet. Anyway, Sports Illustrated would probably sue Lefty if he didn't. Moser’s another sure thing. Dave has the
two years' experience it takes to figure out Lefty’s offense at the point position. After several defensive performances Dave contributed
last year against fine players like West Virginia’s Ron Williams, he'll make the starting five as Lefty’s all-around player. It
seems that the remaining three starting positions are a toss-up between five players. Cook, Kirley, Kroll, O'Neill, and Huckel all
have a good shot at it. Cook and Kirley have the size and muscle to play underneath with Maloy, but
lately Lefty has been using Steve at the wing position. Steve has a fine outside shot from the corner but
he still hasn’t learned that he’s supposed to go around or over screens instead of through them. Doug said he
likes having Steve in the game because “No one starts anything.” Not too many players started anything with Doug last
year as I remember. The real battle this year is at the wing or the forward position. Besides the possibility
of Kirley, Kroll and Huckel are back from last year’s starting team and Mike O'Neill is trying and playing harder
than he did in the last three seasons put together. Jerry had a problem with tendons or ligaments in his
foot earlier this season but now he’s back hustling more than ever. Huckel had his much-publicized ulcer and could only
watch for several weeks but now he’s hitting the floor with regularity. He could be back in his old position
opening night if he doesn’t have a relapse from Lefty's yelling. O'Neill figures that since it is his senior year,
it’s now or never for a chance to be a starter. Maybe he didn’t like the guys on the bench
last season or he remembers his sophomore year when he did start. Either way he’s proving he should get a
chance. Although he doesn’t have Kirley’s size, Mike tries to go through screens on defense like Steve. Lefty’s problem is
making or finding a team from all the individuals running around on the court. After last Saturday’s scrimmage with Tennessee,
we find, as Lefty says, “that we’re not as good as we think we are.” We didn’t do well at
all in the morning scrimmage and although we won the afternoon rematch, two of their starting players were injured. Tennessee
isn't nearly as good as half the teams on our schedule this year. Our skin team (substitutes) rolled over Tennessee’s
subs in continuing our undefeated skin scrimmage record for three years. Two years ago we beat N. C. State’s subs,
last year we took Georgia’s subs, and this year it was the Vols. The subs always scrimmage for a half
after the starters finish with their full game. We have a week left until we play our first game against
VMI in Johnston Gym. Without the students here because of Thanksgiving recess, the atmosphere will be different, but we should
win with whoever starts. We had better.

Kappa Sigs Capture IMAC Wrestling By BILL BERRY Asst. Sports Editor Strength in the heavier weight classes enabled the Kappa
Sigs to pull away from the field and capture the IMAC wrestling tournament held on Monday and Tuesday nights. The
Sigs scored 120 points, largely a result of victories by Hal Young in the 160-pound class, Dave Troxler in the
177-pound class, and Brian Pittman in the 191-pound class. The Sigs were trailed by the Phi Delts with 107 points
and the Pikas with 100. The Sigma Nus were a distant fourth with 66.25 points. The tournament was one of
the most competitive of recent years. In every weight class except the 123-pound division, the wrestler who won the championship
had to defeat at least three men to do so. The large number of entries resulted in top-quality competition in
all the championship matches. None of the final matches were runaways, but probably the most exciting were the championships in
the 130, 137, 145, and 177-pound weight classes. In the 130-pound championship, Sig Ep Randy Carter edged Phi Delt Jack
Caldwell, 3-1, with a reversal in the last minute. Pika Pat Bray pulled a similar feat in the 137-pound division
as he scored a takedown on Kappa Sig Tate Holbrook in the final seconds to win, 4-2. In the 145-pound
class, Bart Walker of the Betas staged a tremendous comeback to defeat Independent Bill Shutt. Walker was down, 6-0, but
rallied to win, 8-6. The match which brought the biggest crowd response was the 177-pound championship between Troxler and Phi
Delt Pierce Irby. Troxler won by a fall, but the match was still extremely close. Champions in the other divisions
were Pika John Benbow in the 123-pound class, Phi Delt Al Jasper in the 152-pound class, Independent Dave Dilley in
the 160-pound class, and SAE Stuart Shelton in the heavyweight division. Sparse participation hampered the freshman competition. East-1 won more
individual championships, but Cannon-2 was able to amass more points because they had more men entered. Almost everyone who entered
was assured of at least second place just by entering, and even one championship was decided by forfeit. Individual winners
were Greg Anderson of Watts-3 in the 137-pound class, Hugh Gaither of Cannon-1 in the 145-pound class, Robert Anderson of
East-1 in the 152-pound class, Whit Ayres of East-1 in the 160-pound class, Sockwell Saves ’Kitten Triumph By STEVE WILLIAMS
Sports Writer Most of the glory in the game of football usually goes to the men who pass, catch, and
run the pigskin. Not too many linemen are known for their excessive speed and ball-handling abilities. Yet Ty Sockwell, a
210-pound defensive guard for the Wildkittens, certainly earned his share of the glory in last Friday's game with Furman. Sockwell
had the pleasure of intercepting the Baby Paladins’ two-point conversion attempt which actually saved a 21-20 win for Davidson. “I
didn't realize what had happened until I got back to the bench,” was Sockwell’s comment on the clutch interception. Nevertheless,
the interception denied Furman a victory in the closing moments of the game. Freshman Coach Gene McEver added that he
was glad to see the interception, yet he could not understand how Sockwell got there to make the catch. McEver
commended the defensive unit for their excellent effort which proved to be the deciding factor in the game. The victory
gave the freshmen a 2-2-1 record for the year, and McEver felt that “the boys came along with a fine
season. They did a good job this season and had plenty of spirit.” Charles Pope of Cannon-2 in the 167-pound
class, Ron Williams of East-4 in the 177-pound class, and Zack Mobley of East-1 in the heavyweight division. The wrestling
victory increased the lead of the Kappa Sigs in the overall IMAC competition. The Phi Delts and the Pikas moved
into second and third overall respectively, as the SAE’s tumbled from second into fifth as a result of their last-place
finish in wrestling.

ED. NOTE: The following article is a reprint from the Nov. 7, 1960, issue of the Roanoke (Va.) World-News. The
article analyzes the Davidson effort in upsetting nationally-ranked VPI that year, when VPI was favored much the same as Vanderbilt
is this year.

By BOB McLELLAND BLACKSBURG — What it was was football. But you could never tell from the way Virginia Tech
played here Saturday. What happened? How can a team reportedly as weak as Davidson College score an unbelievable 9-7 upset
over a team as talented and as powerful as Tech? Was it Johnny Watkins' decision to run a punt out
of the Tech end zone that resulted in the winning safety? Was it a holding penalty on a 71-yard screen
pass from Elmer Reed to Ron Hawkins that called back what could have been the winning touchdown? Was it several
passes dropped in the open by Tech receivers? Was it an injury to Warren Price that prevented the daring little
Tech quarterback from seeing any action? Was it the Davidson defense that consisted of seven formations and moved with the
snap of the ball? Was it the Wildcat’s basic game offense that had been narrowed to some 10 running plays?
No, it wasn’t any one single event that caused the upset. You could hardly blame Watkins’ mental lapse. Nor could
you say anything to the Tech player who held on the screen. And the absence of Price shouldn’t have made
any difference. The Gobblers should have had it wrapped up in the first quarter. Price or no Price. And the
Hokies should have held such a commanding lead by halftime that neither Watkins nor any number of his teammates could
have pulled off a play that would have decided the outcome. Davidson certainly had no business being on the same
field with Tech. And no one lackedOf Big Scoring Threat Slowed Booters

By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

Soccer coach Harry Fogleman summed up the frustrations of the Wildcat team in one sentence, “This was to have been
the year, but we just couldn't score.”

Lack of scoring punch was the big weakness as the Wildcats dropped to their second losing season under Fogleman in
his eight years as head coach. The record was 4-6-1.

“Potentially we had a real good team this year,” Fogleman said. “We had good personnel, as good as I've ever
had at Davidson.”

“The biggest problem was lack of punch and lack of shots," according to Fogleman. In games that the team lost
they were taking 14 to 19 shots while shooting 36 and 38 times in winning efforts.

Fogleman refused to put the blame on individuals and pointed to the absence of a player to take the shots.
Last year's leading scorer, Alfonso Carillo, took as many shots himself as the whole team took in some games this
year. “With Alfonso I think we wouldn't have lost a game this year," Fogleman stated flatly.

Lack of the big scorer in the center of the line is evidenced by wing Bill Horton's team-leading 5 goals,
the first time a wing has led the team in scoring.

The team got off to a slow start as a result of poor conditioning. The first matches pitted the Wildcats
against teams which had already been in two or three contests. Fogleman believes he has corrected this problem by dropping
the two earliest matches next year so that the team can be in shape for the opener.

A major obstacle in practice was the absence of at least one member of the team for each practice due
to afternoon classes and labs. As a result, the team lacked some of the teamwork and unity necessary for a
good offense.

The season had its bright spots too. Captain Cliff Patterson is a strong possibility for all-South honors and the two
wings, Horton and Roger Peterson, are also under consideration.

The team has a strong nucleus returning for next year with Patterson, Peterson, Randy Carter, and Horton in the line;
Rich Cowart, Mike Taylor, and Dick Allison at fullback; and Frank Heiner and Steve Culbertson at goalie.

Fogleman sees Peterson and Patterson as all-American candidates on a winning team next year. Patterson, who was elected captain for
the second consecutive year, was expected to score more but was “so great on defense that he concentrated on that
and was timid about trying to shoot," according to Fogleman.

Fogleman thinks Peterson, who is completely recovered from a knee injury, could be the best wing ever to play at
Davidson. He led the team with six assists this year.

Heiner and Culbertson are also held in high regard by Fogleman, who says that in time they may be the
best two goalies ever to play for the Wildcats.

BART WALKER RIDES BILL SHUTT
Beta takes 145-pound class in IMAC tourney.

VPI Upset Rerun Tonight?

Knew it any better than Coach Bill Dole and his Wildcats. But since the game was scheduled, they were determined
to do their best.

Upset it was. However, one can do nothing but praise the Wildcats for the manner in which they recorded the
victory. It wasn’t decided on any fluke play. It was the result of 60 minutes of outstanding play by the
entire Davidson squad that completely dominated the action.

“They were a heck of a ball club out there today," commented Coach Frank Moseley as he sat quietly in
the Tech dressing room. “It was a 1 to 1,000 long shot," said Dole amid the bedlam that erupted in
the Davidson quarters. “It is like winning the Kentucky Derby. We had hoped to make a good game of it
but I'll have to admit that this is even greater than I had hoped."

Duncan Morton, Davidson's 163-pound junior quarterback, was typical of the realistic Wildcats. “We aren't fooling ourselves,” Morton said. “We know
we have no business beating them. We aren’t in their class. But when we came up here yesterday we all
made up our minds to do our best so that we wouldn’t go home embarrassed.”

Morton said the offense had been narrowed to 10 running plays “so we could get our blocking down and make
as few mistakes as possible.” Davidson also planned to use the full 25 seconds to get off each play and
to throw few passes in a move to control the ball.

A pair of sophomores: center Joe Ansley and fullback Carl Hunt were given the duties of calling the Davidson defenses.
“We planned to move on the ball,” Dole explained, “that way we wouldn't give them what we lined up in.”

But despite the moving defense and limited, delaying offense, the Wildcats still had no business winning. Morton said he knew
an upset was possible but certainly not probable. “We knew they (Tech) weren't worried about us," the quarterback explained. “And
we didn't think they would be playing their best. We did the same thing two years ago at William &
Mary when we upset them.

“I think it was just a case of us playing over our heads and not making any mistakes and they
were having an off day. I know they are too tough for us to be running on like we did
today.”

There was really nothing Moseley and his players could say. It was quite evident that they had been the victim
of probably the biggest upset of the week and the biggest of the decade in the Southern Conference.

Several Gobblers got a little rough on a Davidson running play during the final moments. A Tech lineman drew a
15-yard roughness penalty. “Hey, you big $%T@*bT” yelled one Wildcat player from the sidelines. “Can’t you take a licking from
little Davidson?”

“Don't say anything to him,” a teammate said. “He's feeling bad enough as it is.”

Truer words were never spoken. And the feeling will last a mighty long time among the disheartened Gobblers.

Smith Dislikes Records, Wants Wildcats To Win

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

Imagine yourself as the head football coach of a team that has just beaten a rival Wofford squad by an
impressive 24-9 margin as three of your star players from the offense broke a total of six school and five
Southern Conference records in the process. Most coaches would be more than pleased. If you happened to be Homer Smith,
you’d be far from pleased.

“Breaking a record is fine and I'm the first to congratulate the boy, but what good does it do you
if you don’t win or even play well,” Smith said, reflecting back on the Wildcat football fortunes thus far this
season. “Our primary purpose is naturally to win.”

Winning, unfortunately, is something that Davidson has had trouble doing. Despite the impressive statistics that the Wildcats carry, Davidson has
managed victories in just three of their eight outings.

Gordon Slade increased his personal slate of statistics against Wofford when he broke the school and conference records for total
offense in a season, total passing yardage in a season, pass completions, and pass attempts in a season as he
completed 23 of his 39 passes. The other half of the passing pair, Mike Kelly, tied the conference record for
touchdown pass receptions and in the process broke the school scoring record. Meanwhile, Ed Terry finally tapped his brother's record
for field goals when he booted his fifth of the season.

And yet with all this, Homer Smith still isn’t happy. “It's fine that these individuals have done so well, but
if the team isn't playing that well...”

“Saturday's game was a travesty,” Smith continued. “Slade actually broke another record that isn't mentioned — the most passes thrown
that were dropped by his receivers.”

Whether it’s a collapse at crucial moments, a weak defense, an inconsistent offense, or a combination of these and other
factors no one can be sure. “We just haven't reached our full potential this season,” Smith lamented.

Tonight when Davidson plays host to Vanderbilt, Slade, Kelly, and Terry can accumulate more records while Kelly has the unique
opportunity to become the first lineman to win the conference scoring title. However, Homer Smith isn’t looking for more records.
All he wants is another win. And a win over Vandy will make up for all the losses.

INTRODUCING
A family branch pin with a birthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish it forever. For Only
$4.50
Sherrill’s Jewelry
Davidson, N. C.

MGM presents
A SPECTRUM PRODUCTION
starring JIM BROWN, DIAHANN CARROLL, JULIE HARRIS, ERNEST BORGNINE
PANAVISION® METROCOLOR

GEM THEATRE
KANNAPOLIS
NOW SHOWING

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wherrena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
