J ort-Season ey mt By ROCKY CROSSWHITE

The Big Changes

This summer I was most fortunate to be in Charlotte and to listen to the radio’s human talking machine, Jim Beatty. He and his "Big WAYS Sports" program continued to enlighten me as to various changes in Davidson athletics. When driving into Davidson last Wednesday for my fourth and final year at this “Princeton of the South,” I began wondering if anything had really changed in the college sports scene. Like most things at Davidson, it hasn't that much. Despite the fact that we now attend school on the quarter system and work under the new curriculum changes made last year, the basic and old tradition of Davidson lives on. Still, there is no drinking on campus, no girls in the dorms, and the football team doesn’t win the first game. The non-subsidized fall sports still struggle forward trying to win on desire alone against scholarship athletes from other schools. Everybody gives the cross-country runners moral support for doing something they know they couldn’t stand themselves. Typically, only two members of the soccer team showed up a week before school to begin pre-season practice which the team unanimously wanted last spring. And the baseball team is working out this fall trying to figure out a way to win without really trying. All the fraternities are beginning to think about intramurals and finding a flickerball team from among the membership. These players then have to find a way to appear to be in shape without sacrifice. The freshmen will try to organize hall teams for intramural sports and only one team will show up for the games. Golf and tennis will be popular among the higher class as a gentleman's way to exercise in the fall and the hunters will take to the woods and ponds to find dove, duck, or anything else that moves. What they find will be shot and then given to some farmer to cook. The frisbee season will begin among those who like the timid sports, although former President D. Grier Martin will be missed in that it was his honor to fling out the first platter. Some old guard anglers will cast their lines in a shallow and muddy Lake Norman only to find themselves being run down by the water skiing enthusiasts or some rookie sailing captain. Possibly the now defunct sport of water fighting will be revived although Scotty Nicholls has installed rigid rules which make it almost impossible to find a place to perform. The freshmen will wonder about our football team and the upperclassmen will just laugh. And then everyone will wait and wonder about basketball season. Despite evidence that change comes slowly in Davidson athletics, there are occasional breakthroughs. This year the football team scheduled games with Vanderbilt and Virginia, two schools that have better football programs than we do or spend more money on them. There is an advantage to playing better teams. Our players have nothing to lose but the game which they probably will if last week’s fiasco with Bucknell is any indication.

Sam Spencer, the new president, is changing. Everyone from the janitors to the faculty are wondering what he really thinks about subsidized athletics at Davidson. It appears that he, like most decision-makers at Davidson, prefers to remain non-committal for a year or two. Even the intramural organization has changed somewhat although the players are just as rude. This year officials will be paid $2 a game and they might get the money before they graduate. Still, despite changes in sports and other facets of college life at Davidson, sitting and watching is the greatest participant sport. I mean you just can't beat a Cincinnati Bengal Miami Dolphin game for excitement.

Jordan Is New Coach

Experience watching the big boys play comes to the Wildcat coaching staff with the arrival of new football coach Jimmy Jordan. Jordan spent the last year at the University of Alabama while working on his doctorate in physical education. Although he was not permitted to attend practices and observe the Alabama operation, the youngest coach on the Davidson staff, Jordan, at 26 years old, is a 1964 graduate of the University of South Carolina, and played offensive halfback and defensive safety for the Gamecocks.

Cats Face Passing Attack Against Spiders Tomorrow

By BOB DUNHAM Sports Editor

If one can believe the predictions of sports information directors, Davidson's meeting tomorrow night with the Spiders of Richmond, at Richmond, will be no easy contest. All advance publicity and interviews seem to indicate that the 1968 Spider squad will be quicker, faster, larger, and, in general, better than last year's team, which posted a 5-5 record. Richmond comes into the game hungry for a victory, having dropped its first two starts to Toledo and West Virginia. Toledo dumped the Spiders, 41-14, and then the squad fell 17-0 to the Mountaineers. The Spiders will be young, with 31 sophomores on the squad, but the newcomers seem promising, and the team is graced by the presence of top-ranking quarterback Buster O'Brien and speed-demon end Walker Gillette. Also back is Coach Frank Jones, named last year as Southern Conference Coach of the Year. Jones promises a stronger running game along with a deadly passing attack to provide more balance to the team, which beat Davidson last year, 24-17. The O'Brien-Gillette combination was a key factor last season. They finished third in the conference in passing and pass receiving, to match Richmond's third-place finish in the Southern Conference. O'Brien is a smart field general and a good passer. He completed 101 of 233 passes last season.

WILDCATS AIM AT RICHMOND UPSET

Gordon Slade uncorks one in practice session.

Sporttopics

During the summer, junior Gordon Slade was named to the all Southeastern NCAA baseball squad. Now starting quarterback on the Wildcat football team, Slade was named an outfielder on the all-star squad. He was the only member of the Southern Conference to be named to the squad, which was selected from universities and colleges throughout the southeastern region. Slade led the conference last spring in hitting, compiling a .429 batting average.

Davidson football is being carried this year over a new station, WIST of Charlotte. The station will broadcast all games, both home and away, either live or by delayed broadcast. The live games to be broadcast include the games with Richmond, Connecticut, and Vanderbilt. The remainder of the schedule will be broadcast several hours after the game has been played. The times for the delayed broadcasts will be 5 p.m. for all games, except the Virginia game, Oct. 5, which will be broadcast at 4 p.m.

Prospective baseball players in the freshman class and other interested players begin practice this afternoon at 2 p.m., according to Coach Tom Stevens. The fall practice session this year is expected to display some bright prospects, whom Stevens believes can help Davidson toward a winning season.

Davidson's influence on Duke University expanded. Having dropped its first two starts to Toledo and West Virginia, Toledo dumped the Spiders, 41-14, and then the squad fell 17-0 to the Mountaineers. The Spiders will be young, with 31 sophomores on the squad, but the newcomers seem promising, and the team is graced by the presence of top-ranking quarterback Buster O'Brien and speed-demon end Walker Gillette. Also back is Coach Frank Jones, named last year as Southern Conference Coach of the Year. Jones promises a stronger running game along with a deadly passing attack to provide more balance to the team, which beat Davidson last year, 24-17. The O'Brien-Gillette combination was a key factor last season. They finished third in the conference in passing and pass receiving, to match Richmond's third-place finish in the Southern Conference. O'Brien is a smart field general and a good passer. He completed 101 of 233 passes last season.a passing total of 1,242 yards. Gillette, an all-conference selection, has great hands, good speed, and great moves. He set an individual record last year against VPI when he received passes for 162 yards, including an 83-yard touchdown play. He picked up 702 yards last season on 81 pass receptions. In the two games this season, Gillette has caught eight passes for 71 yards and one touchdown. Another ace on the Spider squad is middle guard Dick Irvin. Jones labels him a potential All-American. One bright spot in the Davidson outlook is the Spiders’ loss of punter Mike Bragg. Bragg, now under pro contract with the Washington Redskins, led the conference in punting last year with a 41.4-yard average. Back this year, however, is Mike Bixiones, the team's leading rusher and scorer. At halfback, Bixiones picked up 216 yards, scored four touchdowns, and led the team in kickoff returns. The Spiders hold a decisive edge over Davidson in the schools’ grid meetings, leading 13-7-1.

The Davidsonian

New Faces

Among the faces in the freshman class are four which belong to the men expected to make Davidson basketball go for the next four years. They come in varying sizes. Doug Hill, 5-9, is a quick guard with the ability to stop on a dime and hit from the outside. He is a transfer. Bryan Adrian is 6-2, and the basketball coaches feel he has outstanding talent as a shooter. His unerring, free-throw jump shot rarely misses, and he dribbles with great skill. Lester Strong, 6-4, is a big jumper who leaps like West Virginia's Carey Bailey. He can go to the top of the backboard and his follow-away jumper is a defender's headache. The literal “big man on campus” is Eric Minkin. At 6-8, he will provide a new post man for the Wildcats. Strong and sturdy, Minkin can take anyone to the boards.

Lack of Overall Attack Leads To Grid Demise

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

If Davidson can make both ends meet tomorrow night against Richmond, there may be some surprises. However, the Wildcats must overcome several weaknesses that were apparent in last week's opening 22-13 loss to Bucknell. First, the charges of Coach Homer Smith must play the middle of the game with the ease in which they played the opening and closing moments. Against Bucknell, the Wildcats scored with ease in the first quarter and once again in the fourth period but were unable to pose any real threat in the middle of the game. Second, another running back must be found to give Davidson a good ground attack. Kerry Keith picked up 63 yards in 12 carries but received no substantial help from elsewhere. Third, the offensive and defensive units must play with more cohesion against the Spiders. “We just weren't a team,” Smith said. “We weren't playing together strong — anyone well, but that will come with practice. And when it does we'll win a few ball games.”

The Wildcats rolled up 270 yards total offense, most of it on the passing of junior Gordon Slade and Keith’s plunges. Keith scored both of Davidson's touchdowns, his first capping a 75-yard drive the second time the Wildcats had the ball. Then disaster struck, and in the most unusual ways. The frustrated Davidson team saw first an Ed Terry field goal try hit the crossbar and bounce back, and then watched as Whit Morrow fumbled a kickoff at a crucial moment in the game. “If we had had a better kicking game, a better offensive effort, or a better defensive game, any of these three would have won the game for us,” Smith said.

There won't be much change in the Davidson personnel tomorrow despite last week's poor showing. Junior George Hannen, a converted halfback who played end last year, will see limited action after missing the Bucknell game with sickness, while another junior, halfback Ken Hill, was hurt last week and won't be able to start. “Our opponent will be better this week, but so will we. We definitely will play a better game,” Smith said.

NEW AND USED FURNITURE!
To make your room more comfortable see Howard & Brawley Furniture Co.
Phone 662-1861
162 N. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.

JANUS FILMS PRESENTS
THE ARTHURUS COLLECTION
September 27, 1968
Page Three

a collection of brilliant short films by the directors of the 60's (& 70's)
GODARD
CHRIS MARKER
BOROWCZYK
DICK LESTER
POLANSKI
BECKETT
JORDAN BELSON
TRUFFAUT
MOGUBGUB

AT THE SELLOUT PREMIERE AT LINCOLN CENTER'S PHILHARMONIC HALL THE CRITICS SAID:
“Santa Claus Came 49 Weeks Early”
“Extremity Worthwhile”
“An Excellent Cross-Section”
“Like a Breath of Fresh Air”
Judit Crist, WORLD JOURNAL TRIBUNE

PROGRAM NO. 1 OCT. 9-10 (4 showings)
NO. 2 OCT. 16-17 (4 showings)
ALL SHOWINGS 8:15 P.M.

REGULAR ADMISSION
Single Program $1.50
Series $2.50
Student Admission
Single Program $0.88
Series $1.25

MORRISON ROOM
COLLEGE UNION
Davidson College
Davidson, N.C.