**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson N. C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1968

Seven Come Eleven

At first reading, the report of the Committee on Rules and Punishments seems a bit disappointing. Perhaps what many people were expecting was a long tirade against the paternalism of the faculty and administration to be followed by a report calling for the abandonment of many of the school’s Presbyterian-oriented regulations. Instead, the committee chose, in its preamble, to emphasize the school’s primary purpose as the development of men for “leadership, service and self-fulfillment.” Student responsibility and maturity is the keynote of the preamble, and the code which follows seems to provide a more meaningful way to develop them.

Three important changes are obvious at first. One, of course, is a recommendation of drinking on campus, in certain places, and another is a proposal for open dormitories on weekends. Both of these have been campus issues for years. The third proposed change has been discussed less but is certainly of at least equal importance. In urging greater student representation on the courts determining violations of SGA regulations and a greater student voice in determining punishments for these violations, the CRAP report makes its most significant contribution to student responsibility.

The report is intentionally unpretentious. It seeks to liberalize several student regulations without making a frontal assault on the college’s Christian commitment or its basically conservative orientation. It is not, however, an attempt to sneak past the faculty and the trustees by speaking softly. It seems rather to be an assertion that liberalization can take place within, and in spite of, the college's commitment and orientation. That assertion is both well-put and long overdue.

Marshall Law

The long arm of the fuzz reached into our placid little community last Saturday night, plucked a rather alarmed member of the student body off the street, and deposited him in durance vile, charged with disorderly conduct. Although he may have found calaboose accommodations more comfortable than his dormitory room, the highly questionable, nay, unbelievable, circumstances of the arrest constitute a ridiculous reason for him to have to explain for the rest of his life why he was once arrested.

The officers seemed to be hearkening back to Grade B movie tales of the inequities of Southern justice. They only lacked cattle prods and bloodhounds. Riot tension may be a cause but is not a reason for the arrest. Such incidents only increase the probability of riots. If blind justice, urged on by riot backlash, manages to convict the hapless student, we would have to urge the town of Davidson to secede from Mecklenburg County.

VIEWS OF DISSENT

Davidson ‘Not A Berkeley’

To The Editor:

This letter is not intended as an indictment of student diversity, but as an inquiry into the virtue of small groups on this campus being able to project an image of discontent that is not necessarily representative of the entire student body. Seen from within, one can distinguish these small elements of the student body: but viewed from without by those who are removed from the campus—parents, alumni, friends, benefactors, Church leaders, and those who have a strong faith in Davidson to provide a stable environment for their youth—one becomes confused about the real educational process at our school.

Our question is essentially this: Do these notions of radicalism and unrest not alienate a large and productive segment of the population and turn them away from the Davidson cause? We expect outsiders to support our college, and then we wonder why they often fail to invest in our college's future with donations, endowments, and aid. Are we not moving away from the basic presuppositions upon which our institution was founded when we allow a small group to distort the student image here at Davidson?

We are not asking anyone to forsake the principles of social justice for economic support. Rather, we are asking for a serious reevaluation of the image which we as a student body present in relation to the principles upon which the college was founded. We are not advocating a general apathy on the part of the students toward all significant social, political, or religious issues. However, is it not our goal as full-time students at Davidson to pursue an academic enlightenment and a cultural maturity that a great many of us believe can be wrought most effectively from the conscientious application of our resources in the classroom and not in the streets? Or in consultation with our professors, and not in demonstrating on the tops of dormitories? Or in studying, and not in the most sensational actions?

Once we have reached that maturity of a college graduate and once we have studied the problems laboriously, then we can put our ideas into practice. We wonder what the reactions of these same people will be after they have experienced the real challenges of life, and not just observed them from the ivory towers of college life. In college it is easy to react from the periphery and then once again retreat to the campus when the going gets tough.

Hence, we come to the main issue. Davidson is not a Berkeley, even though a small group seems to desire such; and the founding fathers and the men who have given us our priceless heritage did not intend it to be. For those who do not cherish the Davidson heritage, for those who seek a more diversified atmosphere, and for those who believe Davidson is doomed to failure unless she conforms to the prototype of the prestigious universities, we ask this question: If you speak of the need for diversity in education, why not use the corollary in respect to the entire educational system? Does not Davidson, a “selective” and a good liberal arts school, have something unique to offer the entire educational process?

Suppose we gamble and move in the direction of the larger and more diversified schools; can we compete for this diversity which some desire? They have more money, more students, more graduates, and more resources than we, but do they have a better educational system?

Therefore, it is because of these problems that we submit our letter to you, Mr. Editor. We do not believe that those who see the good points in the traditional Davidson education have spoken out. We believe that the great majority reject the student activists and radicals who can only find fault with our society and with our college. We believe that the students at Davidson who have been a part of the ennobling experience here should let it be known that our student body is not apathetic, but neither is it as radical as a minority would make us think. We believe the Davidson image is something of which we can be proud, when it is not distorted: we believe that the uniqueness of the college gives it distinction and stature: and we believe that just because something does not provide an outlet for marches or protests, it is not necessarily bad.

We, as students, are dedicated to following the ideal of Davidson College—sound leadership, based on a rigorous academic schedule, supported by sturdy moral principles, and attended by students who will cherish the legacy we have inherited.

John L. Napier, ’69
Martin L. Brackett Jr., ’68
John H. Giles, ’68
Gary S. Hemric, ’70
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Workman Proposal--Buy Black?

ROTC Heckling--A Dishonor?

To The Editor:

THE DAVIDSONIAN asked me to write a letter in explication of my position on the recruitment and funding of additional Negro students for Davidson. An editorial in the last DAVIDSONIAN before the spring break led me to say a few words to two of my classes. It seemed to me then, as it still does, that the editorial sought a most desirable objective, an increase in the number of Negro students. It seemed to be then, as it does now, that students could demonstrate genuine interest in such an objective in two ways, namely, contributing funds and engaging in the act of recruiting. I hoped that my comments would encourage both.

The verbal response from students has been most encouraging with respect to money. Some students have told me that they anticipate confronting me with enough student-contributed money to call for my delivering the 100 dollars that I promised and for my getting at least one other faculty member to give 100 dollars. Two faculty members have told me of their willingness to participate at 100 dollars each. I am confident that there are at least eight or 10 other faculty members of like mind.

It may be that the fundraising is the easier of the two activities. Student participation in recruitment may be less available, but it is equally, perhaps more, important.Believe that most of the students now enrolled are here chiefly because other students actively sought to have them apply. I think that the most effective way for us to encourage additional Negro admissions is for our students to do the recruiting, for our students to seek in their own communities Negroes who can profit from what we have to offer, for our students to urge such prospects to apply for admission. I am sure that enthusiastic and sustained effort by our students would be more productive than any other tactics of recruitment. When I made my comments in class I was not at all sure that many students were sufficiently interested in bringing additional Negroes into our student body to be willing to contribute money. Now I believe that enough money for two or three recruits will be forthcoming. I am still not sure that many students are sufficiently interested to spend time in recruitment, but I am eager to be convinced. I made my offer without first consulting my wife; she says now that she'll be my guarantor.

W. G. Workman
Professor of Psychology
Davidson College

To The Editor:

Dr. W. G. Workman's challenge makes me think of a fat man in a white suit and string tie leaning back in his front porch straw-back rocker to say, "Ma, le'z go out and buy ourselves a nigger." The idea of one or two black scholarships reeks of tokenism. Negro students reject Davidson because of the Southern white atmosphere, not because it costs too much. Financial aid is plentiful. We can help the poor Negro more by bringing him to a college that can accept him regardless of his background than we can by paying him for his blackness. A homogeneous student body cannot give this kind of acceptance. Instead of hiring a student to come in for a year to be unhappy because of Davidson's homogenized whiteness, we should use the money to create a more congenial setting for the Negro student. Use money raised by students to finance the recruiting of students who would break Davidson's tradition of Southern upper middle class inbreeding. This means poor Negroes. It also means New York Jews and Chicago Polacks. Maybe the Athletic Department does have a few things to teach us. Lefty Driesell does not get students from Indiana and New York just because he offers them a scholarship. He gets them because he can sit down with the boy to tell him (personally, not in a form letter) just what Davidson can offer him educationally. The Admissions Office has said it cannot do this type of recruiting because it has neither the personnel nor the money for traveling. Instead of buying ourselves one or two "Nigras," let's pick up Dr. Workman's challenge and use the money raised by it to challenge the Admissions Office to get us out of our homogenized milk carton.

Sam Boyte, '68
Davidson College

To The Editor:

In my four years at Davidson College, I have never been so disappointed and disgusted in anybody as I was Tuesday. Fortunately for me, I was working in a hospital at the time, for I am sure the sight of a Russian flag would indeed have sickened me. You, the intellectual ones of this "great school," or whoever took pride in displaying Russia's flag ought to go even further. There's no place for you in America. This country won its freedom by fighting. It was a costly price. Since then, we have had to defend that freedom many times and the cost in money and lives has been great. But until now, history has not recorded such a divided nation as we have. We have fought and men have died so that you guys can have the right to show off in front of men who are at least attempting to prepare themselves for defense of us in case our freedom is once again violated. If you value communism more than this country's principles, then leave. Please leave. There is no room for you in America. But more important, you are not wanted in America. With the past week of sad events and America's attempt at peace in Vietnam, I find it hard to understand that some of you have no better way to spend your time. This school has left me with many wonderful memories. I'm proud of Davidson and of its tradition, but as for you guys, I just hope the day will never come when you will be called upon to defend the freedom of this country—whether by war or by vote.

Barry Bishop, '68
Davidson College

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

Last weekend I was fortunate enough to be sent as a Student Council delegate to IMPACT, an annual symposium at Vanderbilt University. This symposium is organized entirely by the students and deals each year with a topic of national relevance. The speakers were the best around. This year's IMPACT featured Robert Kennedy, William Buckley, Max Lerner, Jack Newfield, Julian Bond, and Tom Hayden, all controversial and nationally known men. John Lindsay and Nicholas Katzenbach were also scheduled to speak but had to cancel at the last minute. The assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King provided lively debate on the topic "Destiny of Dissent." Some speakers predicted a future of violence in the American cities; others called for the continuation of nonviolence in the Civil Rights movement. The justice of the Vietnam War and the political and economic answers to the plight of America's oppressed poor were lively topics of debate. One speaker even tried to penetrate to the heart of American society and define the forces governing it. The point which impressed me most, though, was the interest it stimulated among the students. The question-and-answer sessions with these men gave them a chance to match wits with those who are running our nation. It seemed as if they felt education is incomplete without first-hand evidence of today's leaders. Then I began to relate this to Davidson. Wouldn't this be a wonderful way to remove Davidson from its normal state of isolation by bringing the world to it? Student government candidates have advocated it for several years, but no one has done anything about it. Of course, such symposiums are expensive. This year IMPACT costs totaled $12,000, but the students made more than enough to pay for it. They raised money by selling tickets and soliciting from foundations, alumni, parents, and community leaders. The publicity they give the program through the news media and the reputation it has acquired over the last five years enable Vanderbilt students to procure such outstanding speakers. Davidson would have to begin somewhat more humbly. The most impressive thing about the whole idea is that students are the key. They can decide on the topic, the speakers, and the nature of the symposium. The success or failure depends upon their efforts. So, student senate, if you're not too busy, here's something you can do for the students. Maybe you can make this the fourth "big weekend" of the year.

To The Editor:

It is apparent that M. Sgt. Forrest E. Todd should leave Davidson College if he wishes to find "(his) army." Although not directly involved in the students' demonstration during the Tuesday federal inspection, I wholeheartedly support it, and regard it as a reflection of the liberal arts atmosphere which Davidson avowedly fosters. Alluding to the demonstrators, Todd remarks that he became "sick at (his) stomach for what (he had) seen." Obviously, the students who heckled the part-time soldiers were showing their disgust for the type of occupation which Todd pursues. Todd's unbounded dismay concerning the display of the Soviet flag, and his unqualified admiration of "good men who get killed trying to kill other people," thoroughly sicken me, as I hope it also must appall most people who retain a significant degree of moral awareness. If Sgt. Todd and the other representatives of Davidson's ROTC department wish to inflict young men with the narrow and rigid thought patterns which the military evidently endowed them, I hope they will find a place far better suited to their closed-mindedness than an educational institution.

Cary Tucker, '70
Davidson College

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Borborygmi: rumbling or gurgling sounds caused by the movement of gas in the intestines.

Extended Rush

Davidson students live in a state of extended rush. There's the weekday rush. The rush to get to class. The rush of getting assignments read, papers completed. The rush to get to Hattie's before she closes; the rush of chugging a quart so you can forget about all the rushing you've been through already. Then there's the weekend rush. The rush of getting a date for Saturday night. The rush of picking her up, dashing to dinner and a flick, rushing to grub for an hour and then rushing to get her back to her dorm. This is the rushed generation. The mad dash to grow up, to appear sophisticated at 15, or earlier. The high school rush—the mad whirl of grade-grubbing, test-taking. It’s climaxed by the rush of getting into the right college. So Davidson students, the ones that went to tough high schools, come prepared for the subtle, always-there-beneath-the-tranquil-surface pressures. If they don’t arrive prepared, they learn quickly. Rush is not a once-a-year thing here. It’s the relentless circularity of the academic and social treadmill whose machinery never breaks down. The unremitting pressures are always here. But these are often purposeless, self-defeating pressures. My God, where does it all lead, where does it ever end? Living here is like swimming around the periphery of a whirlpool. Man, you’ve got to keep swimming or get sucked into the vortex, into the sewer of academic and social failure. Davidson students get rushed through four years of college—four years that provide so little time for introspection, for self-analysis or for self-fulfillment in non-academic areas. As I rush to finish this column, because it’s getting very late, I feel only a profound sadness. In these small hours of the morning, the pressures relent for a few minutes. Where am I going, what is the sense of all of this? I do not know. Someday, I swear I'll have the time to sort out the kernels of meaning from the chaff of superficiality. But not now, not this week. I’ve got a term paper, a review, and Spring Frolics is next Friday.