She Davidsonian October 11, 1968 Page Five

‘Cats Embark On Homecoming Lark
Smith’s Gridders Pass Tough Cavalier Test
By BOB WALLACE Sports Writer

The Cavaliers and the Cavalierets all sported gleaming buttons proclaiming, “Who is Davidson?”, and although the crew from Charlottesville managed what appeared to be a one-sided, 41-14 conquest of the Wildcats, the mighty Virginia eleven will remember the school that is ‘somewhere near Charlotte.”

For the full 60 minutes, a bunch of scrappy ‘Cats put everything forth against the rugged University of Virginia football squad who mauled VMI the week before 48-0.

The turning point for the ACC contenders came late in the second quarter. After moving to a 21-7 lead, the Cavalier booter caught Davidson completely by surprise with a perfect onside kick. Frank Quayle, the highly touted Virginia back, followed this ‘break’ with a 35-yard ramble to put Davidson in a 20-point deficit, 27-7.

Davidson's number one scoring threat, the patented Gordon Slade to Mike Kelly combination, netted the Wildcats seven more points in the closing moments of the opening half.

Davidson's grid misfortunes did not end with the referee's final whistle Saturday. While on punt coverage, Sandy Brenneman, the highly regarded Davidson center, was clipped from behind. The play netted UVa a 15-yard penalty, but ended senior Brenneman's football career at Davidson. The faulty block caused torn ligament damage in Brenneman’s knee.

Commenting on the loss of Brenneman, Coach Homer Smith said, “I cannot exaggerate how much we'll miss Sandy as a blocker, team leader, and a person."

Speaking of some of the brighter points of last week's encounter, the offensive line did a good job protecting Slade. “When you consider they threw the Purdue quarterback, Mike Phipps, for losses a half a dozen times, and so many times against VMI, well..."

Speaking of tomorrow's clash with the Huskies from Connecticut, Smith said, “They'll be spoiling for a win." Last year the Davidson gridders had the honor of ruining the UConns’ homecoming with a 38-18 loss, and they will be trying to return the favor. “They're a stronger team than last year,” Smith said, “but it looks as if we better win.”

(Staff Photos by Weems)
HIGH-FLYING CAVALIER CORNERBACK Peter Schmidt takes pass away from Mike Kelly

Freshmen Please
By DON PARMAN Sports Writer

The prospects for the remainder of the freshman football team's schedule are quite good, according to Coach Gene McEver. Despite a 38-17 loss to the East Carolina freshmen, McEver had words of praise for the team's effort. Explaining that the defensive team had only limited practice against the single-wing offense used by East Carolina, McEver said they did a good job against it.

Since Davidson had been playing together for a much shorter time than their opponents, McEver conceded that ECU had an advantage, but said, “we did a lot better than we thought we'd do.” With ten minutes left, the Wildcats trailed by eight, but an onside kick failed and ECU pushed over the clinching score.

McEver singled out Robert Norris for “an outstanding job at cornerback” and Greg Sikes for a “good job at end.” Two long receptions by Sikes set up Richard Neal's touchdown plunge. Jim Ellison scored the other touchdown on a short run. Harold Wilkerson kicked both extra points and a field goal to complete the scoring.

In terms of top prospects for next year, McEver tabs Frank McLaughlin, a 240-pound lineman, as the “best line prospect.” Other linemen singled out were Ty Sockwell, termed as

IMAC Play Stays On Predicted Track
By BILL BERRY Asst. Sports Editor

IMAC flickerball produced relatively few surprises in its first full week of games. Most teams fulfilled their preseason predictions, although some teams performed better than expected due to the play of sophomores.

Phi Delta Theta, picked in the preseason Berry Poll to win the flickerball championship, has proven to be at least as strong as expected. Exhibiting a strong offense and adequate defense, the Phi Delts have already beaten their stiffest competition.

SPORTS DESK
By BOB DUNHAM

A POINT FOR THE SYSTEM

Collegiate sports editors have an established habit of picking out the weak points in an athletic program and tearing that program to verbal shreds by harping on these faults without mercy. But there comes the time when the program strikes back. Sometimes it comes from the coach or the players, who express dissatisfaction with the editor or his arguments. Sometimes it even comes from the over-eager student fan, who supports his team through all of its trying moments. But there are times when the program strikes back by itself without a word or complaint; it does it by proving its worth.

The program struck back last weekend in Charlottesville. It proved a few things, in spite of an overwhelming scoreboard defeat. There were faults. But the program won last weekend. The complaints that Davidson was in “over its head,” which arose from the students and echoed in Homer Smith, were valid. But the competition which the Wildcats displayed matched the Cavaliers face to face. The defense allowed a Virginia record for total offense, but it stopped Frank Quayle short of his previous rushing average. A few lessons were learned in the defeat, and more than a few people are going to be surprised if Davidson does not display the results of this education against the Huskies from Connecticut tomorrow.

The offense pounded out much more yardage than anyone would have anticipated. Gordon Slade was in top form against the Virginia pass defense, which ranked second in the nation last year. And Kelly? Well, Kelly was Kelly, and once again Homer Smith counted his blessings every time Kelly dragged a Cavalier defender toward the goal line. The rest of the backfield, which could scarcely move against Richmond the previous week, put out a tremendous effort in piling up rushing yardage against the biggest defense they will see all year.

The lesson was not without pain. The loss of Sandy Brenneman will be felt, but the ’Cats are fortunate in having letterman Bill Gammon to fill his center spot. Indeed, the lesson was a hard one. The Cavaliers played rough football, and the 267 yards in penalties which they sustained testifies to something along this line. But the Wildcats played some tough ball on their own part, and they appeared more than ready to contend with the remainder of their schedule.

Davidson probably will not win the rest of its games this season, but the hopes for a happy homecoming are high. Slade and Kelly are ready; Homer Smith is ready; Kerry Keith is ready; the defense is ready. It appears that the whole program is once again ready. The difference this week is that the team is ready, not just to play, but to win. Win or lose, the program has proven its point. If no one else is aware of it, at least one sports editor knows the answer to the “Who is Davidson?” riddle which plagued the Virginia gentlemen last week.

There will still be faults. There will still be sports editors, and so there will still be criticism. In spite of it all, though, there will still be Davidson football, and occasionally a few pleasant surprises like Charlottesville will still strike out to prove the system’s worth. The more the merrier.They eased by the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis by a touchdown in each game and overcame a scare by a strong Sigma Nu team. The Pikas and ATO's are thus far the only real surprises of this season. The Pikas have already matched their total number of victories for all last year with wins over the KA’s and Betas. A narrow loss to the ATO’s is the only blemish on the record. The strong points of the Pikas have been the defense of Joe Lansinger and Stu Brown and the steady play of a large number of sophomores. Clay Dormia has been particularly impressive, as he has scored five touchdowns in the first three games. The ATO’s, in a rebuilding year, have also proved to be better than expected due to the performance of several sophomores, among them Mark Baker, Brad Danielson, and Larry Flynn.

The remaining teams in the league have performed just about as predicted in preseason analysis. The Kappa Sigs have lost only to the Delts and probably will not lose again. The Independents are yet to win and in all likelihood will be that way at the end of the season. The others lie somewhere in between.

Berry Poll (Revised)
1. Phi Delts
2. Kappa Sigs
3. Sigma Chi
4. Phi Gamms
5. ATO
6. Sigma Nu
7. Pikas
8. Betas
9. SAE
10. KA
11. Sig Eps
12. Pi Kapps
13. Indies

Davidson's Wayne Huckle, admitted last week to a Charlotte hospital for treatment of bleeding ulcers, is out of the hospital and will probably be ready to play by the basketball season's opening practice, an open practice Tuesday at the Charlotte Coliseum.

This week’s official figures for collegiate standings reveal Davidson's offensive strength, in spite of three straight losses. Davidson ranks 11th in pass offense in the country, with quarterback Gordon Slade individually placing ninth. In total offense, Slade places 20th nationally. With 21 receptions in three games, end Mike Kelly ranks sixth nationally in pass receptions. William and Mary, another Southern Conference team, ranks first nationally in pass defense.

THE ALL NEW WILDCAT DEN
Specialty of the house
PIZZA
Open Monday through Friday
11:00 a.m. — 2:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. — Midnight

The rebellions of the sons against the fathers continued this week, when coach Heath Whittle Jr. brought his Western Carolina cross-country team to Davidson to defeat his Davidson dad's team.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Welcome to Charlotte! We invite you to enjoy an OLD FASHIONED FISH FRY at LAKESIDE INN. Serving the finest Catfish — Filet of Flounder — Pan Trout — Filet of Perch — Black Bass — Shrimp — Oysters — Flounder — Scallops. FAMILY ATMOSPHERE -- ALL YOU CAN EAT. Children under 6 years fed free . . . Children 6-12 35c. Open Daily 4:30 to 12:00 P.M. Except Mon., Tues., Wed. Directions: Highway 21 North to Old Statesville Road (Hwy. 115). Go out Old Statesville Road ½ Mile Beyond Brockenbrough Airport. LAKESIDE INN Henderson Circle Tele. 596-2711 Tele. 377-2701 R. G. Burns, Owner Kamey Alley, Chef

Davidson Plays Host
By BOB DUNHAM
Sports Editor

The spirit of victory which has become a Davidson homecoming tradition in the past two years has a good chance of returning tomorrow, when the winless Davidson Wildcats meet the hapless Huskies of Connecticut at Richardson Field. An improved Wildcat squad will seek its first win of the season against a squad which won its first game and then dropped two straight. The UConn Huskies bring a moderate attack, a good defense, and an explosive sophomore into the game. The offense was consistent against Vermont, when the Huskies won 21-0, but it slipped off in the losses to Yale, 31-14, and New Hampshire, 17-10. The defense played well in all three games, but allowed scores at crucial moments. The big scoring threat comes from Vin Clements, a 6-3 sophomore, who leads the team in rushing and scoring. The Huskies rely on the arms of two quarterbacks for their passing threats. Senior Pete Petrillo and sophomore Rick Robustelli have shared the duties; but neither have been as successful as predicted. Petrillo led the Yankee Conference in passing last year, setting a school record for total offense, 1,271 yards.

Davidson will employ a few minor changes this week. Bill Gammon has moved into the center slot to replace injured Sandy Brenneman, and Coach Homer Smith has plans to juggle his defense a bit, but other than the minor changes, the team will appear the same as in the Virginia game. Gordon Slade, offensive player of the week in the Southern Conference, will man the offensive guns, with end Mike Kelly his favorite target. Looking for another big game this year is fullback Kerry Keith. Keith crossed the goal line four times in last year’s game, including a 59-yard scamper. The Wildcats won that one, 38-18, and look to tomorrow for the first win of the season. With the loss of key Huskie players to graduation, that prospect is bright.

Slade Wins SC Honors
Citing Davidson's potent passing attack against Virginia last weekend, the Southern Conference sportswriters this week selected junior quarterback Gordon Slade as the conference's offensive player of the week. Slade completed 16 of 36 passes for 233 yards, hitting end Mike Kelly for two touchdowns. He outdistanced VMI halfback Tom Sowers for the award. Last week's total placed Slade first in the conference and ninth in the nation in passing offense. Slade is 20th in total offense in the country.

English Leather, For men who want to be where the action is. Very racy. Very masculine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the complete array of ENGLISH LEATHER men's toiletries. A PRODUCT OF MEM COMPANY, INC., NORTHVALE, N.J.

MEET Davidson’s soccer goalies, paced by side-burned senior Harry Hamil (above), had a rough time early this week, as five Pembroke goals passed their hands, dumping the Wildcats, 5-3. The team meets Wesleyan College this afternoon at 3 p.m. on the soccer field.

BILL TAYLOR
THE GENTLEMAN'S SHIRT
He’s Our New Career Bankerslifeman in Davidson
As the newest member of the Charlotte Agency, he has received training that will help him serve you. His training centered on teaching him that service to people is always our first consideration. Guided by such a philosophy, he can fit your personal insurance needs — professionally — from a wide variety of plans that are backed by the nationally recognized Bankers Life Company's reputation for good service and prompt claim payment. Once you know Bill Taylor, you will understand why we are proud to have him as a member of our organization.

A truly fine shirt in exclusive fabrics, good fit, and new fashion for the traditionalist. Davidsonians, Use Your Charge Account. Join Peck & Peck. Call him in Davidson at 892-8851. William A. Chater. Mooresville — Only 6 miles north. Our 56th Year. 500 E. Morehead St., 372-6330.