Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second-class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Ross Hooker Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO Mike Johnson Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1968

Without Really Trying

For years representatives in the college's student government have acted as if they were bound by nothing—be it regulations, custom
or even good faith—to attend meetings. A fraternity basketball game, a review to study for, a trip, a date—just about
anything has constituted an excuse to avoid doing what they were elected to do: represent us.

Last year, for example, Student Council members displayed a disgusting carelessness about their responsibilities. An attendance check at mid-year revealed
that six out of 17 had already overcut and four more were near the limit. The best records in the
place belonged to the president, two sophomores, and the DAVIDSONIAN reporter covering the meetings.

The new Senate elected last spring—despite new trappings and new potential—was worse. It had important jobs to do—like ratification of
bylaws to the new student body constitution—yet twice in a single week President Joe Murphy was unable to muster a
quorum. In fact, Murphy is now saying he may be forced to go ahead with a meeting despite the lack
of a quorum.

It seems more than a little ironic that a student body that wants more say-so in college affairs should be
reduced to the point where its own governing body might be convened without benefit of a quorum. Of course, most
student governments lack power and influence, but Davidson’s lacks one thing more: the respect of the student body. It is
not surprising. In fact, about the only thing strange about the whole set-up is the fact that the do-nothings who
have the nerve—the unmitigated gall—to offer themselves for re-election nearly always win.

We are sick of the old game: four or five students cannot run a student government by themselves. This year
we are going to keep tabs on Senate attendance and report it at regular intervals to the student body. If
a representative overcuts, we are going to demand that he be fined, as specified in the bylaws. No excuse, save
illness, is good enough. And in case anybody on the Senate has forgotten, we still have their campaign platforms tucked
safely away. We are still waiting on them to live up to their promises.

Sexy Survey

A psychologist’s study of that paragon of enlightenment and edification—the college classroom lecture—has revealed the not-so-startling news that most students
do not even listen to it. In fact, at least as many students (20 percent) are thinking about sex as
are listening to the lecture, Paul Cameron of Wayne State University told a psychological association meeting in San Francisco recently.
The rest of the students, Cameron said, are reminiscing or daydreaming of other matters.

Cameron based his report on a nine-week course in introductory psychology for 85 college sophomores. A gun was fired at
random during the course, and the students reported what they were thinking about at the moment.

What we are to conclude from all this we are not quite certain. It is either an interesting commentary on
the state of mind of the nation’s youth or on the state of the nation's lectures. You decide.

Red-Necking

North Carolinians flustered over the current gubernatorial contest might find a measure of comfort in a recent statement by Democratic
candidate Bob Scott. Boldly venturing out on a political limb a couple of weeks back, candidate Scott solemnly pledged that,
if elected, he would not be a 'milquetoast governor.' Said he: “I will not be a milquetoast governor. I will
call on you for your support because by working together we can bring new life and energy into North Carolina.”

Reassuring as that may be to a few, however, it changes very little. For Bob Scott may be a lot
of things, but timid he is not. If that wasn’t made clear last spring when he came out four-square behind
paved driveways for volunteer fire departments, it should have been obvious from his courageous statement that all students who boycott
classes should be booted out of school. Or again, what about his daring—albeit unsubstantiated—“exposure” of alleged irregularities in a Wake
County anti-poverty agency? Or his enlightened blasts against student demonstrators? Or clever game of hide-and-go-seek with the national Democratic ticket?

It seems a touch insane, in fact, to go around calling “milquetoast” a man who has so ardently—nay, brazenly—courted the
state's rednecks. His campaign strategy may be disgusting, but Bob Scott is no fool. He thinks he knows how to
get himself elected, and much as we hate to admit it, he just may be right.

Even more discouraging is the fact that there is no alternative to the man. For his opponent, Jim Gardner, is
worse, if that's possible. So Scott may as well save his breath the next time he intends to deny his
timidity. Instead, he could be reassuring a lot of us that if he's elected he'll abandon his alliance with the
rednecks. Otherwise, as far as we're concerned, he might just as well keep his mouth shut for the rest of
the campaign.

Abundance of Heroes

One of those seniors just back from a year abroad, his eyes bleary but open after 10 months on the
Continent, sadly surveyed a group of freshmen the other day and announced to nobody in particular, “They're all alike.” He
sounded as if he was slightly surprised at his discovery, but he shouldn't have been. You don't need to go
to France or Germany to see that Davidson is in a rut in its admissions policy.

We have too many “whole men” here—too many guys who made 1350 on their boards, ran the student council, and
starred on the football team. It is this “whole man” hang-up, in fact, that undoubtedly contributes significantly to the problem
of widespread student apathy here. For it is no wonder that many freshmen take a look at the dozens of
presidents, co-captains, and other BMOC's in their class and for all practical purposes give up, resigning themselves to the role
of follower rather than leader.

Meanwhile, many organizations and areas of interest at Davidson are crying for more leadership. The individual student can distinguish himself
if he can only overcome his own apathy. Davidson's neglect of the Negro and other underprivileged students is a crime
of the worst sort; we have said so many times before. Nearly as bad is its neglect of the not-so-well-rounded
students. As Student Body President Joe Murphy said the other day, we need more elliptical students at Davidson and less
well-rounded ones. It would help both kinds of students, and it would help Davidson College. Perhaps it’s not too late
to send the Admissions Committee to Germany.

No Rush

Perhaps nothing is so fashionable at this time of the year as the remark that Orientation lasts too long. For
four years now, ever since rush was moved from the first week of school to a later date, it's been
that way. Where the freshmen of five years ago had rush to occupy their time, now they have nothing. Every
year everybody from the administration to THE DAVIDSONIAN says Orientation is too long, yet nobody ever shortens it. So bored
freshmen spend their time playing hearts and trekking back and forth to the P.O. This is a poor omen of
what their next four years will be like.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Minister Berates Drinking Here; Welfare System Bad — Sparrow

ED. NOTE: The following article was received last May, too late for confirmation for the final issue. The letter refers
to balloting in which 14 students voted against the CRAP Report. Dr. Hamilton is an Episcopal minister now in retirement.

To The Editor:

It is depressing if a church college has only 14 more alert, understanding, sober, conscientious students who know they are
their brothers’ keepers and who refuse to exploit their fellow man. Only creating genuine Christians can be created by exposure
to alcohol and vice; only the feeble-minded believe learning is increased by alcohol. Alcohol makes men less like men; only
maniacs dream that more alcohol means less alcoholism; only dolts believe alcohol is indispensable; only hypocrites pretend to be helping
others when they damn them to the hell the New Testament says drunkards are headed for. Only those ignorant of
human life are unaware that alcohol destroys character and personality and spirit. Only those devoid of history do not realize
that alcohol leads to fornication, adultery, profanity, rioting, crimes. Why are saloons closed to end fights? Students in a college
where Plato is taught should know the Old Testament warning against putting a bottle to your neighbor’s lips, the Pauline
injunction against anything that might hurt another, the forthright judgment of Jesus that you go to hell if you hurt
the least of your brethren.

Of course, you may not have two cents worth of concern for truth, justice, brotherhood, honest government, better business, constructive
education, aid for the worker and farmer. “Poor white trash” throughout Southern history have been marked by addiction to alcohol.
How did such get in a classical college? We are sure many will realize they have been misled, but not
before more lives are ruined by the industry owned and run by Klansmen. Jesus is the Final Judge. It is
a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the Living God.

Dr. Charles G. Hamilton
Aberdeen, Mississippi

Paul Newman Directs Woodward’s Real Talent

RACHEL, RACHEL, starring Joanne Woodward, directed by Paul Newman.

By DAVIS M. JONES

Paul Newman dropped his lounge as a blue-eyed character actor to direct his wife in this creative endeavor, proving himself
a sensitive director as well as a good actor. Joanne Woodward has for years been one of the few outstanding
Hollywood actresses. With “Rachel, Rachel” she has risen to the peak of her profession. Many veteran movie fans will assume
that the skill ofPaul Newman's directing has finally revealed his wife's potential, but that is not the sole reason for
her sterling performance. Since "The Three Faces of Eve," until now her most important and demanding role, Miss Woodward has
simply been a good actress in Tennessee Williams-type family roles. But "Rachel, Rachel" is different. It's her film. Newman obviously
knows how to bring out the best in her.

Another year and the same familiar gripes seem to fill the air. Let's look at some complaints of the class
of '72:

"Orientation was dull." Not true. Why, even guys just barely given the fresh air an opportunity to realize why everyone
gets out of here on weekends.

"No one understands the new curriculum." There have been rumors floating around that someone understands it, but Dean Burts refuses
to confirm or deny it.

"We should be able to drink on campus." I'll let you in on a secret, we do. Those piles of
beer cans below Belk are really Richardson dormitory. Don't worry too much because the rule is enforced by the campus
crimefighters. In fact, last year drinking was even classified as more than an actress, and this is the essence of
his success in directing this one. His camera is constantly on her close-up, bringing out the subtlety of her style.
The film is not recommended for children, which of course, is a great stimulus for drawing large crowds. But the
crowds will not be pleased. There is one sex sequence with the orthodox shots of shoulders, necks, and an occasional
bra strap—but no satisfaction for the sons of the new Hollywood liberality. So "Rachel, Rachel" is pointed toward mature audiences,
not by virtue of sex, but because the film is a classic example of premeditated cinematic boredom, and children traditionally
do not enjoy such fare.

The point of "Rachel, Rachel" is its narration. Joanne Woodward is cast as a slightly attractive woman in the middle
of her life, fast approaching spinsterhood. She lives with her mother, a widow, and makes sandwiches on her mother's bridge
night. Her environment has never changed, an environment which abounds in its nothingness—there is a school, a conclave of religious
nuts, a soda shop, and Rachel’s home on the top floor of her dead father’s funeral home. The town is
as exciting as the plot—a woman's realization of her nothingness and her struggle to overcome it. The supporting cast is
capable but irrelevant in spite of an overly pushy attempt to accentuate the lesbianism of Oscar-winning actress Estelle Parsons (Bonnie
and Clyde). The film is entirely Rachel, dwelling on artfully presented flashbacks, in her quest for sex and independence and
on the change of direction her life takes. The film "Rachel, Rachel" is not outstanding, but Rachel is. Paul Newman
has realized his wife's capabilities as an actress and has permanently ensured the prominence of her talents.

POTSHOTS

And Santa Claus

"Murder, rape, cheating, going to church, and being in advanced ROTC on the Davidson crime scene."

"My computer date was a pig." No offense, but this year the pig-pools at Queens were big business—it works both
ways.

"There are more wrinkles in my pants after I send them to the laundry than before they went." Last year
the laundry decided to stop giving shirts the Royal treatment (starch and iron) and switched to pants. Be happy, the
button crusher, pants-tearer, and sock-mismatcher are still in operation.

"Cafeteria food is awful." Just wait until the cafeteria stops trying to be impressive. By November you will find it
possible to have chicken for 22 straight meals (including breakfast) or have a complete mystery meal including meat, vegetables, dessert,
etc.

"My room is so ugly, junky, and dirty could fill the blank but don't. Well, freshmen, the rooms really don't
get any better—honest! Oh, they may get cleaner but they also get smaller. That feeling is like finding out about
Santa Claus.

"The infirmary can't be all that bad." Yes, it can! Fondly known as Death Valley, the infirmary is the place
you should go when you are sick after you have seen the boy on your hall whose father is a
doctor. It is advisable that only hypochondriacs frequent the infirmary, as they have an even chance of getting better while
the rest of the freshmen had better become Christian Scientists (see the Wildcat Handbook under "Davidson's Christian Commitment").

Somehow with all the change, Davidson remains unchanged.

To The Editor:

In a recent discussion, we were surprised to hear Davidson students attack the welfare system with the same kind of
ignorance that most politicians display on the subject. We looked up some statistics in "Fortune" (July 1968, "A Way Out
of the Welfare Mess") and hope these quotes will be useful in future discussions.

First, about those people who "ought to be out working." Of the six million people receiving welfare benefits, two million
are elderly, another 730,000 are blind or disabled, and 2.2 million are children. There are only about 60,000 unemployed men
receiving welfare, which amounts to 2/3 of one percent of all recipients. Maybe these critics mean that the 1.2 million
women heads of households with dependent children should be working. This is precisely what Congress meant in the 1968 Anti-Welfare
Law, by which welfare mothers will now often be forced to leave their children to take jobs, usually low-paying jobs
such as maids.

"Fortune" explodes the myth that there are "a lot of chiselers on the welfare rolls." "Periodic house-to-house calls by an
army of caseworkers—who function mainly as detectives under the present system—uncover fraud involving a mere one-half of one percent of
welfare recipients... only a fraction of the cost of detecting it."

And living on welfare is not easy. Payments vary from state to state. Mississippi gives a family of four $35
a month. In North Carolina, a mother with four children, three in school, receives $168 a month, which includes a
food allowance that amounts to about 20 cents per meal per child. And payments for additional children, contrary to popular
opinion, are hardly enough to cause a mother to undergo nine months of pregnancy and another infant in a slum
apartment. Any money earned at a job is deducted from the payment. Even these small payments reach only about one-third
of the 26 million Americans who live in poverty. Nothing goes to the eight million Americans who live in families
where the father (like many Davidson College workers) works full time and still receives wages which fall below the poverty
level.

Finally, we have worked with a lot of people on welfare, and know several other organizers who have. We have
yet to discover someone who liked being on welfare. The stigma of being "on the dole" and the humiliating way
that recipients are treated by the welfare department makes most recipients ashamed to admit their status. Welfare is an unbelievably
bad system. The time has come to change or replace it.

Kathy Sparrow
Marvin Sparrow, '69
Davidson College

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Plastics

You saw "The Graduate." Sure. Everybody saw "The Graduate." O.K. And the man tells Benjamin to go into plastics! when
they both meet at the party in Benjamin’s honor. Right? That the man tells Benjamin to go into plastics seems
to be no accident. The man himself is plastic. Everybody at the party, with the exception of Benjamin, is plastic.

Plastic: capable of continuous and permanent change of shape in any direction without breaking apart. Plastic people. Capable of being
shaped; capable of shaping themselves to fit a particular occasion. Adopting a stance. Playing a role. But, never being real
nor genuine.

This summer I saw a Cliffie and her date walk into Bailey’s just off Harvard Square. She was a plastic
hippie sort, too clean to be genuine. I overheard her tell her date she wanted something tangible, "some little thing."
She didn't want ice cream, which is about all Bailey's sells anyway. Like plastic, ice cream melts, is changed, transmuted.
Plastic people need all the tangibles they can grab. They need support and social crutches. They're too busy changing themselves
that they need things to hold on to.

And then there was this drunk at a bar, sort of a bar and restaurant, on Nantucket. He was old—greyish
stubble covered his lined, sun-tanned face. He was a "carpe diem" man, and was full of advice. He told me
to live one day at a time. To hell with tomorrow. The plastic he was made of had worn a
bit thin; he was beginning to crack. But he held onto the liquor, his life preserver because his ship was
sinking. The old drunk ended up sitting down with his ex-wife and granddaughter. And they got into an argument. The
old man got mad and left. Then I got to sit down with the ex-wife, who apparently was just as
much an alcoholic as her ex-husband. She graciously told me that she and the granddaughter "weren't whores or anything." (Frankly,
I might not have known otherwise.) They were two plastic people leaning on crutches. Two sad cases.

To get back to "The Graduate." Benjamin feels that he must break away from all of the plastic people that
yearn to surround him. For him, "plastics" is not the magic word. Benjamin escapes, thank God. So that leaves all
of the rest of us, all at a school that is very Establishment in its viewpoint. Very conformist, rather similar
to Benjamin's world. The college in general is not plastic, but many of its students are. It's just that in
our worship of "the status quo" things remain on an even keel and nobody rocks the boat. So if you're
a plastic person as a freshman, you'll probably be the same plastic person as a senior.

But not necessarily. You can always chip away the veneer, or solidify the plastic.
