Page Four April 19, 1968 The Davidsonian

FAR FROM GOOD
Non-Academic Job Picture Improving
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

Wages and working conditions of Davidson College’s 90 non-academic employees are improving, but the 1965 self-study report stated “conditions are
far from good for this group of (non-academic) employees at Davidson College.” Most non-academic employees do not earn up to
the $1.60 per hour Federal minimum in industry. This rate will not be required of the College until 1971. Following
the College policy of keeping wages competitive with those in area industry, hourly rates for janitors and maintenance workers have
risen above the $1.15 minimum set by law. In addition, the work week has been shortened from 45 hours three
years ago to 40 hours in the past year, two years ahead of the standard schedule.

Robert A. Currie, college business manager, said the faculty-administration self-study committee made an intensive investigation of the College’s employment policy
and pay structure. This group called for shortening the work week, increasing wages to at least the federal minimums, and
paying a 50 percent overtime premium. “These recommendations were carried out before the College came under the federal labor requirements,
and we have continued to stay ahead. The 50 percent overtime premium, for example, will not be mandatory until February,
1969,” Currie said.

However, assistant history professor N. M. Johnson said that he believed that the College “pays as little as it can,”
but he added that federal laws and increased competition in the area have helped the employment picture at Davidson. “There
are more alternatives for employment in Davidson now,” he said.

“Increased fringe benefits and liberalized vacation privileges do add considerably to the employees’ remuneration,” said Robert Stephenson, assistant business manager.
“The College contributes to hospitalization and retirement insurance, and employees are kept on the payroll year-round.” “We are proud of
the progress being made in this area,” Stephenson said. “We have come a long way in the past few years,
and we hope to continue to move ahead.”

The pay scale for non-academic employees at Davidson is not unlike that at Duke University until recently. Students at that
institution have been actively supporting striking workers through massive sit-ins and boycotts which have received nationwide publicity in the past
week. Students and labor union leaders there joined in demanding a minimum hourly wage of $1.60 for all employees and
University recognition of the union. The current minimum wage for janitors and maintenance workers at Duke is the required $1.15.
Cafeteria employees there receive a base pay of $1.25 an hour, ten cents above the government-set minimum.

At Davidson, all 19 cafeteria employees are hired and paid according to a rate schedule dictated by the caterer, Slater
Food Service. Klaus Kleeburg, Union Cafeteria Manager, said the minimum wage paid is $1.15, as required throughout the restaurant industry.
“I can’t disclose specific rates, but pay varies upward from the minimum, depending on job classification and seniority,” Kleeburg said.
Cafeteria workers are employed all year, and they also receive uniforms, standard paid vacations, and voluntary medical insurance. The 38
students employed in the Union Cafeteria under the work-study plan, however, are paid $1.40 per hour. This program is subsidized
by the federal government. There are no labor unions either in the cafeteria or among College employees.

PETER HOBBIE
RHA Chairman

Hobbie, RHA Ask For Open Dorms
By PAUL ROWLAND and ED SHOAF

The Residence Hall Council, under the direction of Peter Hobbie, began its efforts this week to plan and sponsor the
opening of at least one dorm to women visitors before the end of the semester. Hobbie said that such an
experimental open dorm requires the approval of the dean of students and the director of student housing. At the Wednesday
meeting of the Student Life Committee, Hobbie presented the idea to sample their reaction. According to Hobbie, there was no
objection made and no action was taken since approval is required from only Mrs. Peter Nichols, director of student housing,
and Dean of Students Richard Burts.

Meeting last Monday, the council began a study of the parts of the Residence Hall Association Constitution and the CRAP
report that deal with open dorms. Their plan is to hold one or more open houses to evaluate the proposals
in the constitution and the CRAP report. Bill Bailey, C. L. Cheshire, and Mike Culbreth were appointed to the committee.

Decision Pending On Lingle Manor
By RICHARD HINSON
Staff Writer

The question as to what will become of Lingle Manor is still unanswered, according to College Union Board President Ed
Embree. Embree said that although the faculty committee on the College Union, Fraternities, and Clubs recommended that the College Union
get control of the Lingle Manor building, the final decision rests with the college treasurer, Robert Currie.

Several groups have recently claimed control of Lingle Manor, which is on the site of the projected college library. When
the group that used the building disbanded last fall, they gave control of the structure to the student council who
in turn passed it on to the Freshman Council. The original group, however, did not have the authority to designate
control, and the College Union expressed a desire to use the building. It remains possible that Currie might decide to
turn the building over to neither the Union nor the Freshman Council but use it for another function, such as
storage.

Folk-Rock Trio Will Play Union

“David, della Rosa, and Brooks,” a folk-rock singing group, will perform on campus next Saturday night, sponsored by the Union
Board. The concert will be 8-10 p.m. in either the Morrison Room or on the patio of the College Union.
“David, della Rosa, and Brooks” are a versatile group, with a musical presentation ranging from standard songs and current hits
to traditional folk ballads. The group performed here last year at one of the midnight concerts of Homecoming and also
appeared at the Block Booking Conference in Charlotte last February. Charlie Cameron, chairman of the Social Council, said that the
Saturday performance will be “more or less an informal concert” and that the Union has no other activities planned for
the weekend.

Up n’ Coming

Monday, April 22
11 a.m. Dedication of Dome Room as Thomas L. Perkins Auditorium
10 a.m.

Tuesday, April 23
10:20 a.m. Assembly Perkins Auditorium
7 p.m. Exhibition of Contemporary Art Cunningham Fine Arts Center
7 p.m. Discussion on Business Careers Phi Hall Love Auditorium
ODK Tapping
7:30 p.m. French Films

Wednesday, April 24
All Day Choice “68 Vote Perkins Auditorium Chambers Lobby
10-11 a.m. Piedmont Visiting Scholars Perkins Auditorium Dr. Northrup Frye
4 p.m. Peace Corps Seminar
7 p.m. German Films

Thursday, April 25
10:20 a.m. Chapel Morrison Room Perkins Auditorium Love Auditorium
Great Issues Speaker — Hubert Black

Hoyt: ‘Juliet’ Is Screaming Color
A REVIEW By DON HOYT

Fellini’s “Juliet of the Spirits” is color: color screams in Suzy's Pleasure Palace, the house of depravity next door, and
murmurs in Juliet’s secluded seaside villa, whitewashed, green-shuttered and candle-lit. It is not the color found in “Dr. Zhivago.” Fellini
does not reproduce nature; rather, he creates a nature of his own, and he is so deliberate, imaginative, and consistent
within his own world thathe gets away with it. “Juliet” has little plot, much as Fellini believes life has little
plot; it deals with the emotions, desires, and frustrations of a middle-aged woman, caught up in the realization that the
world is leaving her behind. She is of one world; those around her are of another. They live in a
world that is perverted—sexually, intellectually, and spiritually. Theirs is the world of “The Graduate’s” Mrs. Robinson; Juliet’s is that of
Elaine. Fellini desires that we retreat from the Gothic horror of Suzy’s Palace to the tranquil beauty of the pristine
forest. For two hours he takes the audience on this fantastical odyssey back to the halcyon days of circuses and
biplanes, joy and love. Fellini pictures a world that is lost, but still regainable.

The Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday pointed to study the rules which should apply to open dorms. According to Hobbie,
their aim is to provide rules the students will enforce so as to prevent outside regulation of the open dorms.
A second committee of Jim Hinshaw, Tom Opie, and Steve Page was chosen to evolve a method to pick which
dorms will participate in the first open dorm experiment. Hobbie said he expects the dorm or dorms for the first
open house to be chosen next week. Frank Bass, James Bryce, and Ray Stringfield compose a third committee which will
select the date for the open dorm session. They are trying to place it sometime in May. Hobbie said that
he has great confidence these open dorm sessions will succeed. He stressed, however, that these are actually trials to evaluate
rules and student body participation.

Corps Meeting Slated
A Peace Corps Seminar will be held on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union.
According to Miss Marianne Hodges, Southern region Peace Corps representative, the seminar is designed to acquaint applicants and others interested
in the Peace Corps with the selection, training, overseas experience, and return of the volunteer. Several other returned Peace Corps
volunteers are to be present to discuss the program and answer questions. A related film will also be shown. The
seminar and counseling will be open to the Davidson community as a whole. According to Miss Hodges, the counseling will
be available at the Chaplain’s office or at the guest house. Returned Peace Corps volunteers from Malawi, Sierra Leone, and
Ethiopia will present the program.

CORRECTION
THE DAVIDSONIAN erroneously attributed to the Young Republican Club a resolution last week “calling for an end to student rights.”
Instead, the resolution termed student rights “contractual rights” and asserted that students have the right to demand fulfillment of the
contract.

By RICHARD HINSON
Staff Writer

“That’s too high to climb. I wouldn’t want to do that,” remarked student body president Joe Murphy after watching a
Davidson College Rescue Squad practice drill. During the drill, students

Reagan Students Wait, Try To Swing Delegates
“Right now we are waiting for something to happen in which we can do more for Governor Reagan,” said Joe
Beard, a member of Davidson's youngest political organization, Students for Reagan. According to Beard, support for Reagan must be directed
to the North Carolina delegates to the Republican convention, who have already been chosen. The student group, headed by chairman
Brevard Wallace and treasurer Hunter Dalton, has now grown to about 30 members. Formed last fall, members have attended various
conventions in Charlotte, as well as the State Young Republican convention and the State Convention in Raleigh. In addition, the
group has been actively distributing literature about Reagan throughout the year.

Obtains Activities Grant
The new Activities Grant Foundation, created and sponsored by the Union Board, has awarded several grants so far, according to
Union President Ed Embree. According to Embree, several grants have already been awarded to students who will bring people to
Davidson who are authorities in the fields in which these students are interested. “We’ve made one grant to Buddy Newsom
to bring in a writer from the Iowa Writer’s Workshop,” said Embree. “We’ve also made one to Rick Harrell and
Sam Hatcher,” continued Embree, “who are going to bring down Jim Bradley, a graduate student in economics at UNC-CH, and
Mr. Peyton Woodson, the president of Occidental Life Insurance Co.” Embree said that these men will discuss how a businessman
can make a contribution to society. Embree stressed that applications for the grants must include a well-organized program and a
proposed budget.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

FLYING INSTRUCTIONS
SEA PLANES or LAND PLANES
Start your flight training on beautiful Lake Norman. Modern, fully equipped aircraft for both land and water operation. Basic aviation
ground school taught by certified ground school instructor. ALSO AIRCRAFT RENTAL
Lake Norman Aviation
PERTH ROAD — MOORESVILLE, N. C.
DAY PHONE 664-1452
NIGHT PHONES 662-5601 or 662-5222
Write Post Office Box 416, Mooresville, N. C. 28115

RESUSCITATION
Rescue squad practices life-saving.

Rescue Squad Practice: Scaling Cannon Dorm
Members of the rescue squad were lowered from the third floor of Cannon dormitory by means of a safety belt
and by a rope sling. The rescue squad is able to handle any foreseeable accidents which may occur on campus,
according to Oscar Gant, head of the squad. Gant said that the squad, which was not formed until three years
ago, is solely for college use, although the college will let other organizations use the squad's equipment if necessary. Gant
explained that the squad consists of eight men who work on the college campus. The members of the squad have
undergone 32 hours of training in addition to a recent review course. Gant feels that the squad is capable of
handling all emergencies and added that bi-weekly practices will be held regularly in the future. The practice drills attract considerable
student attention as curiosity seekers gather to see how or what is being lowered out of the upper stories of
Cannon. One of the most recent “victims,” Leonard Baugham, remarked after his descent, “Are you kidding me?” He then solemnly
remarked, “These men are experienced. I had confidence in them.” Charlie Brown, another student guinea pig, recommended the experience to
others. “Everybody should try it at least once,” said Brown.

Dome Room Gets New Name
The Dome Room, sometimes referred to as the “doom room” by Humanities students, will officially cease to exist at 11:00
a.m. April 22. At that time the room on the fourth floor of the Chambers building will be dedicated as
the Thomas L. Perkins Auditorium. The auditorium is to be named for Thomas Perkins, chairman of the trustees of the
Duke Endowment and long-time friend of Davidson.

For your Spring Frolics Weekend
We have the Liveliest Group of Slacks ever! They are for you.
Other Haggar Slacks from 9.00 to 20.00
John Mack & Son
Our 56th Year. Mooresville
