‘CATS GO GUNNING FOR EASTERN TITLE (See Page Four). VOL. LVII

Taking advantage of fast Sunday’s springtime weather, Da- pushing a baby carriage. Even the sad-looking dog who wanders non. (Staff Photo by McKellar)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1968

THE PLEASURES OF SPRINGTIME
through the halls of Chambers took an interest in this unusual Sterling Martin, assistant track coach, cycled around campus display, but kept a careful distance from the strange phenomenon.

WILLIAMS REPLIES TO McMILLIN (See Page Two)
NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

Lingle: Religious Hobbie Wins SGA Vice-Presidency As Voters Demonstrate Impatience
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

Sophomore Peter Hobbie was elected vice-president of the Student Government Association yesterday, gaining a 56 percent majority of the 248-193 vote, and Marshall

5 Losers Seek Seats In Senate
New SGA President Joe Murphy took one horrified look at the long list of candidates for SGA Senate which included five of the six losers in the presidential race, and began to cross off names. Murphy will have to wait until next week, however, to have the candidates narrowed down. Bruce Weihe, chairman of the Elections Committee, reported the candidates that are running for the offices of class senator and cheerleader.

Those students running for the position of freshman class senator are: Doug Abele, Gary Cash, Mike Cole, Rich Cowart, Ed Dobbs, Jim Edwards, Steve Engstrom, Biff Fine, Ken France, Charles Katz, Gray Mason, Keith Onsdorff, Tom Opie, Lyman Parrigin, Teddy Ravenel, Bruce Rogers, Tom Rogers, David Sams, John Saunders, Joe Smith, Floyd Strand, and Jule Young.

Running for sophomore class senator are: William Brown, Tim Bynum, C. L. Cheshire, Bill Cockrill, Harry Goldman, Dan Herd, Gary Henschen, Richard Howard, Todd Hutton, Jim May, Clif Patterson, George Penick, Carl Salter, Roy Stuckey, David Troxler, Tom Way, and (See LOSERS, Page Six)

Saturday, March 16
4 p.m. Concert
8 p.m. Sunday, March 17
Monday, March 18
Wednesday, March 20
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service
2 p.m. Varsity Tennis Davidson vs. Presbyterian
2 p.m. Varsity Tennis

Guill downed Joe Norton, 263-188, for the YMCA Presidency. Hobbie defeated Bill Cockrill in a race which centered around student action, Cockrill taking the more conservative position that students “must be cautious and consider the far-reaching consequences” of change. The election of Hobbie showed a determination by students to pursue the “we've waited long enough” idea which propelled Joe Murphy into the SGA presidency last week with a substantial margin. Hobbie campaigned for open dormitories and played up his membership on the Constitution Revision Committee. Sophomore representative to the Student Council, he defeated a field of other candidates, none of whom had served on the Council.

Junior John Roe defeated senior Mike Mooty in a runoff race for defense adviser, 261-208, after trailing Mooty the first day. Voters gave their approval to the system of co-freshman advisers again this year by electing John Gilmore and Larry Slade. Gilmore and Slade defeated Chuck Mendenhall and Frank Spence, also running as co-advisers, in the only real landslide of the week, 80-39. Gilmore and Slade had 73 percent of the vote. Only rising seniors vote for freshman adviser.

Election for YMCA officers again reflected the tendency to vote down social activities or liberals, as Schneider and Pyeatt both lost before the final runoff. Last year, Marvin Sparrow, organizer of the Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP), was defeated for YMCA President. Emerson Bell won the vice presidency of the YMCA, defeating Robert Pyeatt in the first runoff and Mac Davis in the second. The final vote was 159-122. Jeff Chetwood was elected YMCA treasurer in a second runoff Friday, and Greg Scott secretary in the Thursday runoff.

Names In Ring Top 80
The number of people under consideration for the Davidson presidency has now reached 80—despite the Trustee Selection Committee's insistence that the successor to Dr. D. Grier Martin be a Presbyterian. Trustee President Walter L. Lingle Jr., who serves as selection committee chairman, said yesterday in a telephone interview that more than 80 names have been suggested thus far. He also indicated that the committee would hold to the Presbyterian restriction, in spite of requests that the selection process be broadened.

“I think the best evidence that it (the Presbyterian requirement) does not limit you is the fact that you've got a great many college presidents in this country who are Presbyterians,” he said. “There's been no reluctance on the part of people to make suggestions. Our problem now is getting information about all the people who have been suggested.” The mechanics of getting information on the suggested (See LINGLE, Page Six)

CRAP Plan Scheduled For Release Next Week
The second of five parts of the report by the Committee on Rules and Punishments will probably be released next week, committee chairman Mike Carroll said Wednesday night. Carroll said that the “Code of Responsibility” section was completed, except for the wording of the drinking rule, which was to be completed this week. The report's preamble was announced last

Petition Receives Slight Response
By ED HAY
Staff Writer

The petition to abolish the drinking rule is being circulated at fraternity houses in a last effort to secure more signatures, according to junior John Pancake, sponsor of the petition. “The response has been a little disappointing. I hope this second try at the fraternity houses will bring in more signatures,” said Pancake. “I've been told that a great number of people didn't see the petition the first time around.” Although Pancake said he would “not be disappointed” with 500 signatures, he plans to submit it to the faculty before the spring break. Student reluctance to sign a petition, even though they favored it, mystified him. There is a good possibility, according to Pancake, that the drinking rule will be changed. The changes in the curriculum and regulations sparked this optimism. “The current rule is bad

Up ‘n’ Coming
Love Auditorium — Glenn Yarbrough
NCAA Eastern Regional Playoffs Raleigh, N. C.
Lingle Chapel Clinton, S. C.
Tennis Courts Davidson vs. Kent State
8:15 p.m. Artist Series Presentation Love Auditorium — Richard Gray “A Wilde Evening With Shaw”
Thursday, March 21
7 p.m. German Films Dome Room

this second try at the fraternity houses will bring in more signatures," said Pancake. “I've been told that a great number of people didn't see the petition the first time around."' Although Pancake said he would ‘‘not be disappointed’ with 500 signatures, he plans to submit it to the faculty be- fore the spring break. Student reluctance to sign a petition, even though they favored it, mystified him. There is a good possibility, according to Pancake, that the drinking rule will be changed. The changes in the curriculum and regulations sparked this optimism. “The current rule is bad"Psychologically," said Pancake, "it doesn’t cut down on the drinking and may even cause the students to drink more." The rule, which has more effect on campus life than just cutting down on drinking, is not fulfilling its purpose, according to Pancake. He pointed out that there were no "disastrous consequences at Princeton when their drinking rule was abolished."

Other parts of the report will include a statement of philosophy under which the code is to be administered, recommendations for the judicial system, and informal suggestions for revision of academic regulations and minor rules. The drinking rule, said Carroll, is similar to the rule at Haverford, which allows for "the right of the individual to choose within the context of the institution." Open meetings and at least one Open End are to be held on the code of responsibility, said Carroll. The report is not to be formally submitted until the first four parts are completed but will be presented to both the Student Council and faculty at the same time by the joint student-faculty committee. Carroll emphasized that next week's version is "only a first draft" and said that the CRAP committee will be open to suggestions from "all members of the college community."

DAVIDSONIAN Staff To Meet
A meeting of DAVIDSONIAN staff members will be held Sunday night at 10 in the newspaper offices on the second floor of the College Union. The purpose of the meeting will be to organize next year’s staff, according to Robbie Hooker, new editor-in-chief. A number of writing and copy desk positions will be open due to the changeover in staffs, Hooker said. He asked all interested students to come to the meeting.

The report, explained Carroll, is to apply to the entire college community, and references to students and faculty separately are avoided as much as possible. In addition, the approach will not be "casuistic," that is, it will be couched in general and equivocal rather than specific terms. CRAP committee member Dave Clemmons said, however, that the report would be specific enough to be clear in stating when a student was in violation and when he was not.

Ruling To Remain

DR. C. HUGH HOLMAN
... UNC provost.

Dr. Purcell Sees More Symposia
The upcoming Reynolds Symposium will be Davidson's first program of this type in a number of years, according to Dr. James S. Purcell Jr. Apparently, there is some student interest in having future symposia at Davidson; several candidates in the recent elections wrote in "symposium planks" in their platforms. The Reynolds Symposium was originally planned "as the literary part of a week of cultural activities," said Purcell, professor of English. The other activities "did not materialize," he added. The cultural week was to be "something of a replacement" for the annual Fine Arts Festival, "one of the oldest traditions we had," Purcell said. Last spring's 20th Fine Arts Festival was the last program of the series, and no committee was named this year to continue this tradition.

George Core, English instructor and Reynolds Symposium coordinator, pointed out the advantages of a symposium. "Any one speaker, no matter how good, may be stale on any one occasion. He may have a headache or something," Core said.

Reynolds Talks Change
A symposium on modern Southern literature Monday and Tuesday will replace the traditional one-speaker, three-speech format of the Reynolds Lecture series. Three speakers, Dr. C. Hugh Holman and Dr. Louis D. Rubin Jr. of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Prof. Walter Sullivan of Vanderbilt University, will discuss various aspects of the symposium's theme, "Is Southern Literature Still Relevant?" Each speaker will present a critical paper for the Reynolds Lecture program. A symposium, moderated by George Core, English instructor and symposium coordinator, will end the two-day program. These men are "authorities in the field" and come from schools that "have shown sustained interest in Southern literature," according to Dr. James S. Purcell Jr., professor of English. He said Holman’s symposium paper will probably deal with social issues as presented in Southern literature. Sullivan will present a contrasting viewpoint on the retreat of Southern literature into aestheticism. Rubin will present the thesis that both aestheticism and social concern have coexisted in Southern literature.

At least five works by four Southern authors will be discussed in the symposium: "Absalom, Absalom!" and "Light in August," novels by William Faulkner; "You Can't Go Home Again," a novel by Thomas Wolfe; "A Good Man Is Hard to Find," a collection of stories by Flannery O'Connor; and "The Confessions of Nat Turner" by William Styron.

Symposium Events
Monday, March 18
10:20 a.m. "The Relevance of Modern Southern Literature," Dr. C. Hugh Holman, Love Auditorium
4 p.m. "The Southern Renascence and the Joycean Aesthetic," Prof. Walter Sullivan, Hodson Hall
8 p.m. "Southern Social Issues and the Outer World," Dr. Holman, Hodson Hall

Tuesday, March 19
10:20 a.m. Reading, Prof. Sullivan, Hodson Hall
8 p.m. "The Continuing Relevance of Southern Literature Issues," Dr. Louis D. Rubin Jr., Dome Room
8 p.m. Symposium: "Is Southern Literature Still Relevant?" Drs. Holman and Rubin; Prof. Sullivan; George Core, moderator, Hodson Hall

CATS GET PRIME TIME
Saturday Concert Altered
In order to allow students to watch the NCAA regional playoffs tomorrow evening, entertainer Glenn Yarbrough has agreed to change the time of his concert to tomorrow afternoon. Social Council Chairman Charles Cameron said the concert, originally scheduled for 8 p.m., has been moved to 4 p.m. He announced the change after talking with the managers of the Yarbrough tour. "We wanted a good crowd for the concert," Cameron said, "and we knew that a number of students would want to watch the game on television. With this arrangement, they can do both." Cameron described Yarbrough as "a consistent seller in the LP division." He has produced nine albums. His latest album, "Honey and Wine," was released in November. Along with many of his other albums, it features the poetry of contemporary poet Rod McKuen.

FOLKSINGER GLENN YARBROUGH
Concert moved to 4 p.m.