Page Four February 2, 1998

be Davidsantan Man At His Leisure

Posters depicting forms of leisure entertainment not often available at Lavd seem to be favorite items for the decor of the typical student’s playboy pad. Interesting walls, bulletin boards, doorways, and even large curtains in some halls relieve the otherwise drab dorm architecture. Large splashes of colored posters tend to give the bitterly-gray, late-Salvation Army farm walls more character. The bright, racy decorations give the otherwise small, bleak, and bare rooms a more home-like atmosphere. Longing for feminine companionship is expressed in many of the room decorations. Many students have pictures of their mothers, sisters, and the girl-back-home adorning their walls, as the pictures on this page attest. Thus, THE DAVIDSONIAN pays tribute to this popular method of expending creative energy on campus — enlivening walls, doors, and halls with cheery posters, paint, and graffiti.

Students Become Teachers, Help Children In Learning Academy

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

Every Davidson student has at one time or another wished that he could be on the giving end of education rather than the receiving end. The wish has become reality for Davidson juniors Frank Ball, Kenny Hayes, and Rick Travilla and sophomore Steve Hayes. They are teacher aides in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Learning Academy.

The Academy, part of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School System, is located in Huntersville in the former Torrence-Lytle High School. Its purpose is to aid the underachiever—the student who is behind his classmates in academic achievement even though he is of average or above-average intelligence. The program is designed to stimulate interest in school so that the underachiever leaves the Academy with a desire to learn.

The school opened last October and is presently open to eighth-grade boys although in the future, girls may be included in the program. Also, students from lower grades may be included in the program. When fully in operation, the school will have about 160 students. Under Donald Hayes, director, and Barney Coffey, resident director, the student is given an intensive program of study which is tailored to his individual needs. Before coming to the Academy, the student takes a diagnostic test to determine what his needs are. Since the students live on campus during the week, there can be up to nine class hours as compared to the normal six-hour day in a public school. The program includes evening labs and other special activities such as field trips and visiting speakers and groups. The student stays on an average of three to four months, but he can stay as long as necessary in order to solve his problem.

Since the school is not fully equipped (there will be a fully equipped shop facility soon), the teacher aides are mainly activities directors. They supervise study halls and athletic activities such as basketball, softball, archery, and horseshoes. They also assist the students in labs and individual projects. Ball is now teaching them karate, while Travilla teaches them wrestling.

“The school is still in a developing stage,” said Steve Hayes. “The staff is not really sure what they want us to do. Our function isn't clearly defined yet. Later, we may teach them languages and other subjects.”

“Although it's still too early to tell, we feel that there is a definite improvement after the boys leave here,” said Coffey. “The parents have said that their sons seemed to be more interested in school after leaving here.”

“We also feel that our teacher aides are an invaluable asset to our program,” he said. “They get along with the boys and keep up their interest in what they are doing.”

Moliere’s ‘Tartuffe’ Due Presentation In Charlotte

Moliere’s ‘Tartuffe,’ the neoclassical French comedy, will be presented in Ovens Auditorium at 8 p.m. Feb 14.

“This is one of the greatest comedies ever written in the French language,” Dr. Joe O. Embry, professor of French, said. “On one level there is the sophisticated satire of the 17th-century French aristocracy, but there is also enough slapstick humor in the play to entertain people who don't understand French," he added.

Under the sponsorship of Davidson, the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Public schools, Queens, and Winthrop colleges, ‘Tartuffe’ will be performed in French by Le Treteau de Paris. The story of the play centers around Tartuffe, posing as a poor wretch, who has been taken into the household of the wealthy Orgon. Orgon and his mother, Madame Pernelle, have been duped by his affected sincerity, but the other members of the household know him for what he is, an impostor seeking to take advantage of Orgon’s kindnesses. Moliere's comedy rapidly becomes a merry “pot-au-feu” with all sorts of complications resulting from Orgon's myopia. Orgon proposes to marry off his daughter Mariane to the red-nosed glutton Tartuffe. Tartuffe, however, has his cap set for Elmire, Orgon's wife, and attempts to seduce her. Orgon's son is temporarily disinherited, in a further complication to the plot. Tartuffe ultimately is revealed to Orgon as the hypocrite he really is. But, ironically, Tartuffe seems to hold all the trumps, and very nearly succeeds in playing them to bring ruin to Orgon, his benefactor.

Davidson student tickets are available for $1.50 at the Office of International Education. The seats allotted to 150,000 BooksNow In Library

The Acquisition Office of the Davidson College Library recently announced that the library's book collection has passed the 150,000 volume level. Statistics, which the American Library Association and the U.S. Office of Education jointly collect, require the book count to include the library’s holdings of government documents. During the Christmas holidays, Jack McGeachy, a student document assistant at the library, made a special inventory of the documents housed in the library's west basement. McGeachy completed the inventory after two years of work. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, library director, said that “this total of the government documents, added to the last officially reported annual figure in June 1967, of 133,886 volumes, brings the total volume to just over 150,000."

Woodwind Workshop Planned

The Clarion Woodwind Quintet of Winston-Salem will supervise a free music workshop at Davidson College on Feb. 9, followed by an 8:15 p.m. concert in Hodson Hall. The quintet, musicians-in-residence of the North Carolina School of the Performing Arts, include Philip Dunigan, flute; Stephen Adelstein, oboe; Robert Listokin, clarinet; Frederick Bergstone, horn; and Mark Popkin, bassoon. The workshop will begin at 5 p.m., according to Dr. Grier M. Williams, associate professor of music.

College Receives Grant From DuPont Company

Davidson has been given a total of $6,000 in grants recently from the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Co., according to President D. Grier Martin. Martin said that $5,000 will be used to improve the college’s chemistry program; $1,000 is unrestricted in purpose. Davidson is one of 11 colleges and universities in the South Atlantic states to receive part of duPont's total of $67,000 in aid-to-education grants. “The DuPont company’s record of gifts to Davidson since 1956 is an excellent example of how a national corporation can play a continued and significant role as a partner in Davidson's progress,” Martin said.

The library is now adding approximately 12,000 volumes a year, made possible by the greatly increased financial support obtained by President D. Grier Martin.

William L. Porter, former professor

Davidson students have been interspersed with the seats for Queens and Winthrop girls.

Concerto ‘Mystical, Chaotic’

ED. NOTE: On Jan. 15, Witmer Haydn Welsh’s “Concerto for Voice and Orchestra” was premiered in Love Auditorium by the Chicago Little Symphony with Miss Ilona Kombrink as soloist. Welsh is associate professor of music. The reviewer, Ashton Trice, is a junior.

By ASHTON TRICE

As with most of Welsh's compositions, the concerto, a secular musical form, derives its inspiration from the composer’s personal religious mysticism. Each of the three movements contains a short recitative with text from the Song of Solomon, which to Welsh offers a blending of a mystical search for divine order with elements of divine and human love. Otherwise, the soloist sings, without words, as a member of the orchestra.

To me, the first movement was chaotic. The rich melodic nature of the two subsequent movements was lacking—the ear could only catch occasional, brief moments of beauty. The graceful second movement was abundant in melody, derived from the motifs of the early disorder, and it was beautifully orchestrated, retaining much of the Middle Eastern flavor of Welsh's oratorio “Joseph.” Miss Kombrink was especially pleasing in this part, using to great advantage the dark, sensuous timbres of her voice. The third movement was a contrast to the earlier portions which were generally relaxed, representing the close of the search and the fruition of the loves, by a series of joyous passages, tapering into a calm, peaceful finale, where harmony was achieved.

William L. Porter Dies At Age 94

William L. Porter, 94, professor emeritus of geology and geography at Davidson, died recently at a local hospital. Born in Illinois, Porter was graduated from Tarkio College, Mo., in 1900 with a BA degree and from Yale University in 1902 with an MA degree. Porter retired from the Davidson faculty in 1944. He came to Davidson in 1921 and, in addition to his teaching duties, was for many years curator of the once-active Davidson College museum. He served as president of the North Carolina Academy of Science and was later elected a life member. In 1946 he headed the North Mecklenburg Park Association, which attempted to build a 50-acre park between Davidson and Cornelius in memory of World War II veterans. The project was not completed, apparently from a lack of funds. Porter is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Katharine Halyburton of Davidson, and a grandson, U.S. Navy Lt. Porter Halyburton, reportedly held as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam.