Page Four March 15, 1968

(Staff Photos by Weems)

MALOY SLITHERS THROUGH

Two of twenty-three big ones.

RODNEY CROSSWHITE

Three Stories - As the 1967-68 basketball season draws to an end, (Lefty hopes the end is four games away
in L.A.), I thought I should devote a column to those seniors who won't be with us next year. Since
we only have three on the team, it is fairly easy to do. You can tell which players are the
seniors by the satisfied smirk on their faces. They're closing out their last basketball season on a team that is
in the NCAA tournament besides being ranked eighth in the nation. It’s not a bad way to go.

Naturally, Rodney Knowles should be the first mentioned. Not only is he the best-known of the three, but his name
comes before the other two alphabetically. Rodney in his three varsity years at Davidson accomplished something that very few players
in the Southern Conference have done. He was picked second team all-conference his sophomore year, first team last year, and
honorable mention this year. A clean sweep.

Speaking of honor, Rodney represented Davidson basketball in a North Carolina advertising gimmick for the Wall Street Journal. The advertisement
had a picture of Rodney, Eddie Biedenbach of NC State, Larry Miller of UNC, Norwood Todman of Wake Forest, and
Mike Lewis of Duke in their respective basketball uniforms. The ad was pointing out to big business that companies in
North Carolina have a low rate of lost work hours. Rodney and his photogenic buddies were an additional reason why
North Carolina is a good state for business, pointing out the good colleges in the state.

But putting aside advertisements and basketball, Rodney will be missed next year by the team. He was a key man
in our bridge playing foursome on the road trips.

Like Rodney, Tom Youngdale has been around for four years. As the “forgotten ‘Cat” (a name derived from a story
in one of the Charlotte papers this year) Tom joined the skin team this year after two years of glory
as a shirt. Tom received the supreme compliment this year when Bucky Waters, the West Virginia coach, said if he
had Youngdale, he would have a really good team. Tom always played well against WVU and Coach Waters respects him.

At times it seems as though Tom is a photographer at heart. He has had some fantastic displays around campus.
Some of the players on the team think Tom has a strange sense of humor. His idea of something funny
is putting a sign on the old horse-drawn fire engine on display in a glass-covered frame near Charlotte’s Freedom Park
saying “BREAK GLASS IN CASE OF FIRE.” He could make some money by sending the picture to Life for the
back page.

Speaking of strange things, Bob Pickens is our third senior. Unlike Rodney and Tom, he has only been in the
business at Davidson for two years. He starred at Brevard Jr. College two years previously. Being from West Virginia, Bob
gets kidded quite a bit about his accent, eating habits, and clothes. When we were in New York, I thought
we would have to get him an interpreter so that people could understand him. Bob is the type that likes
ketchup on a five-dollar steak. He wears the latest plaids and checks. He is one of the friendliest players on
the team and it never ceases to amaze him how, in the big cities, no one smiles or says anything
to each other on the streets.

Bob is the court leader of the skin team and if anyone does, he knows what each of us will
do in a certain situation. At the present time, Bob is planning the skin strategy in case we should play
St. Bonaventure in the Regionals. Bob is sure their substitutes, “the F troop,” couldn’t keep up with Davidson’s skin team.

The Davidsonian

Davidson Presses Nearer

Tall, Tough Lions 'Cats First Test

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

Davidson's nationally ranked Wildcats faced tall, tough, and talented Columbia University this evening as they advanced into the Eastern Regional
Tournament of the NCAA basketball playoffs in Raleigh.

In one of their roughest encounters of the season, the eighth-ranked ‘Cats met the Lions, seventh-ranked nationally, in the first
game of the evening. For the first time this season, the Davidson five was outsized. A major contributing factor in
this size difference was the presence of 7-footer Dave Newmark, the Lion’s center. A pair of talented sophomores, 6-5 Jim
McMillian and 6-4 Heyward Dotson, lead scoring for the team, which has amassed a 22-4 record this season. It was
Dotson’s play which helped the Lions out-class LaSalle 83-69 in the first round of the NCAA tournament last weekend at
College Park, Md.

McMillian, however, has been the Lions’ most consistent scorer during the season, averaging 22.8 points per game. He has been
particularly effective on corner jumpers and driving inside shots. The other starters for the Columbia five included 6-3 Roger Walaszek
and 6-3 Bill Ames.

One factor which falls in Columbia’s favor is its tremendous size in weight. The starting five average 207 pounds, with
Ames, a guard, the smallest at 180. “They are a big, strong club," said Davidson coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell.
“We will have to be at our best. We'll have to be up.”

Driesell planned to start 6-4 sophomore Mike Maloy on Newmark, with juniors Wayne Huckel and Dave Moser covering Dotson and
McMillian. He did admit thoughts of starting a taller team against the Lions, but was uncertain about its effectiveness. He
planned to start a man-to-man defense against the Columbia five, with a probable press to begin the game. It has
been Davidson's basic defense all season, and Driesell hoped it would force Columbia into some crucial mistakes.

A factor which the coaching staff has noticed in watching game films of the Columbia-LaSalle contest was the deliberate offense
of the Lions, which brings the ball downcourt slowly. Driesell hoped that this was an indication that a press would
force them into playing Davidson's running game, for which they might be unprepared.

Win or lose this evening, Davidson will have its hands full tomorrow night. Should they win, the ‘Cats will advance
to the finals against the winner of the St. Bonaventure-North Carolina game. A loss would mean a consolation game against
the loser. Either way, the game will be rough. St. Bonaventure was ranked third in the Associated Press’ final poll
this week, while the Tar Heels were ranked fourth. If they win tonight, the national championship is only three wins
away. A loss, on the other hand, would mean elimination from further competition.

DOUG COOK
Steady scorer

Redmen Tumble; Wildcats Live On

By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Davidson's late-game surge overcame a stubborn St. John’s team 79-70, in last Saturday's game at College Park, Md. It was
that victory that propelled the Wildcats into tonight's Eastern Regional semi-finals in Raleigh. The ‘Cats led most of the way
in that game with the Redmen, but the outcome was not decided until the final minutes. With about five and
a half minutes remaining in the game, St. John’s pulled ahead by one, 68-67. Then Davidson's tough defense rally began
to pay off. In those last five and a half minutes of play...The ‘Cats made five steals and turned most
of them into key points. In the last three minutes of the game, Dave Moser made three of the ‘Cats’
crucial steals. Moser hit for only three points in the game, but his defense more than made up for his
poor point production. Mike O'Neill, off the bench in the final minutes, hit two important free throws to stretch the
slim Davidson lead to five points with just over a minute remaining. From then on, it was a matter of
St. John’s having to foul to get the ball, and the Wildcats converting their foul shots.

“I thought we played pretty well against St. John's,” Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell said, “but they played especially well.”
He added that they played much better than they had in their 16-point loss to the ‘Cats in New York
early in January. The Redmen outrebounded Davidson 40-37. But their edge on the boards was neutralized by frequent turnovers. St.
John’s had 17 turnovers to eight by the Wildcats.

Driesell added that the Davidson team could possibly have been more spirited in the St. John's game. He gave his
team credit for playing a good game to defeat the Redmen, but he pointed out that the ‘Cats will have
to play a better game against Columbia in order to advance in the Eastern Regional tournament.

In addition to outrebounding the Wildcats, the Redmen hit for 29 field goals to only 26 by Davidson. The winning
margin was provided at the foul line where the ‘Cats connected on 27 of 36. Driesell commended Mike Maloy, Doug
Cook, Jerry Kroll, and Rod Knowles for their point production in last week's game. Wayne Huckel, as well as Moser,
was cited for strong defensive efforts.

The win was the thirteenth in a row for the Wildcats, who have not been beaten since Jan. 13, in
an overtime loss at the hands of West Virginia.

Seekers Troubled

The Wildcats will have a large following this weekend in Raleigh, but not without some problems. A thousand tickets were
made available to the college for the two-night tournaments, but some students were still in search of tickets for the
games this morning. Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson athletic director, said Wednesday that “every student who asked for a ticket received
one; after that, the tickets went to alumni and friends of the college.” Several students, however, noted that their money
for the tickets had been returned with a note stating that tickets had been sold out and that their reservations
were canceled. The tickets, which were originally sold for four dollars per session, were being sold for much higher prices
this week as tickets became scarce. One offer to THE DAVIDSONIAN this week offered tickets to the highest bidder, stating
that a $35 offer had already been received.

National Crown

Eastern Lineup Has Nation’s Best Teams

No matter which team wins the Eastern Regional Tournament this weekend, the East will be well-represented in the National Tournament
next week. The Eastern Regionals are the only tournament in the country in which all four teams are represented in
the nation’s top ten. St. Bonaventure, enjoying their first undefeated regular season, sits in the number three position in both
the UPI and AP wire service polls. North Carolina follows the Bonnies in fourth place in both sets. The Columbia
Lions, Davidson's foe in tonight’s game, are ranked sixth in the UPI poll and seventh in the AP final list.
Davidson is rated eighth in the AP poll and ninth in the UPI chart. This is the third season that
the Wildcats, under Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell, have finished the season in the nation's top ten. This season is
the fifth of the last six in which Davidson has won 20 or more ball games. It will be the
‘Cats’ second trip to the Eastern Regionals. In the 1965-66 season, Dave Bing and his Syracuse teammates and then St.
Joseph's handed the Wildcats two straight defeats. The national championship lies four games ahead, but the road will be a
long one for any team.

Pointman Moser Keys Cage Drive

A key to the Davidson offensive assault in the postseason tournaments has been the play of junior point man, Dave
Moser. Practically unbeatable at getting the ball downcourt, he has been quite valuable against the various press defenses used against
the ‘Cats. “He's hard to beat in a one-on-one situation,” commented Wildcat coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell. “He did a
great job for us during the Southern Conference tournament and again against St. John's last weekend.”

DAVE MOSER - dependable

WAYNE HUCKEL - hustler at heart

Davidson Stars Gather Awards

Honors are beginning to accumulate for the Wildcat basketball squad as they close out a highly successful season. The Southern
Conference season and tournament champions have placed several players on all-star teams since the regular season came to a close
two weeks ago. Sophomore Mike Maloy, the talented hoopster from Queens, N. Y., was the first to receive recognition when
he was named to the All-Southern Conference team. Along with West Virginia's Ron Williams, he led the balloting for the
first team. Fellow sophomore Doug Cook and junior Wayne Huckel were named to the second team, while playmaker Dave Moser
and senior team captain Rodney Knowles were named honorable mention. Maloy and Huckel also placed in the balloting for the
Southern Conference Most Valuable Player award. While WVU's Williams paced the field, Maloy placed second in the vote and Huckel
tied for third place. The latest awards announced which included ‘Cat players was the naming of the Greensboro Daily News
All-State basketball team. The two super-sophs, Maloy and Cook, were both named to the ten-man squad. Moser received honorable mention.
The News team included players from the Carolinas Conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference, and the Southern Conference. Davidson, however, was
the only team from the Southern Conference represented on the squad.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. 375-8723

217 N. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

AS HUNDREDS OF COLLEGE GUYS AND GALS HAVE SUMMERTIMES with...

The Eyes

Yes, you put in lots of hours but you’re your own boss. Meet people, make new friends. You're trained and
work on routes where people have bought Good Humor Ice Cream for years... no investment... everything supplied.

HOW YOU QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW

1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver's license and must be able to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

Sign Up Now For Our Campus Visit

Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to schedule you for our campus visit or write to:

GOOD HUMOR, Dept. A. 800 Sylvan Avenue Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 07632

INTERVIEW DATE: March 21

An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)
