NSA JUNKETEERS ASK CHANGES (See Page Two) ‘CATS WIN A CHAMPIONSHIP (See Page Four)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1968
NUMBER TWENTY VOL. LVI

Joe Murphy Elected To SGA Presidency

In a surprising run-away victory, junior Joe Murphy defeated classmate Frank Murphy in this week's election for the office of
Student Body President. The election was decided in a single run-off between the two, with Joe drawing 363 votes to
Frank’s 246. Thursday's run-off followed the elimination of five other candidates on Wednesday. Those failing to reach the run-off election
were Dave Clemmons, Fletcher Hartsell, John Smith, Ashton Trice, and John Williams. Two write-in votes were cast in the run-off:
one each for Hartsell and Snidley.

Honor Court elections in all three classes required two run-offs to choose the two representatives from each class. In the
junior class election, John Schimmel and Garee Thomas were chosen to the court. Hal Shaw was the last eliminated. In
the sophomore class, Pat Bray and Nelson Abell were elected in the final run-off. Carey Tucker placed third. Gene Early
and Herb Clegg were elected in the freshman court race. George Wagoner was the last contender.

Juniors Gately, Hooker Win Publications Posts

Junior Don Gately won the editorship of “Quips and Cranks” and Robbie Hooker the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN in the
Wednesday elections. Gately defeated Bill Olson, 99-69, and Hooker won over Bob Reid by a 375-279 vote. The student body
at large elects the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, but the rising senior class elects the editor of “Quips and Cranks.”
THE DAVIDSONIAN election was contested by a third candidate, Al Jasper, whose bid for the editorship was turned down by
the Publications Board, which exercises financial supervision over student publications and nominates the candidates for publications posts. Jasper received 15
write-in votes.

Publications Board Chairman Sam Boyte explained that Jasper, although he had received a 7-4 vote of Publications Board members, had
not received the two-thirds vote necessary to approve a candidate not nominated by the outgoing editor of the publication. “The
normal reason for the board's turning down a candidate would be that the candidate was not technically qualified to get
out a newspaper with any sort of professional standards,” Boyte said. Jasper, who had planned to appeal the Publications Board's
decision to the soon-to-be-appointed Court of Appeals, said that personal reasons had prevented his making an appeal. “I hope the
powers of the board will be so defined in the new bylaws as to avoid giving them the ‘kiss of
death’ power they now have.”

The four rising juniors who have filed for the office of SGA vice president are Bill Cockrill, Peter Hobbie, George
Penick, and Tom Wheatley. YMCA presidential candidates include Marshall Guill, Joe Norton, and Paul Schneider. The six candidates for YMCA
vice president are Emerson Bell, Mike Culbreth, Mac Davis, Robert Pyeatt, Dave Wasserman, and Bruce Wolff. For YMCA secretary, five
students filed. They are Tom Dasher, Andrew Pickens, Greg Scott, Brian Smith, and Ron Stelzer. Those running for YMCA treasurer
include Jeff Chetwood, Brad Danielson, Kim Griffith, Paul Rowland, and David Stimpson. Seven candidates have filed for the office of
freshman adviser. The rising seniors are Tom Alison, Gary Dean, Chuck Mendenhall, Greg Simmons, Larry Slade, Frank Spence, and Tate
Sterrett. Defense adviser candidates include Jim Cooley, Mike Mooty, John Roe, and George Rogister.

JOE MURPHY ... new president

CRAF Committee Issues Preamble First Draft Due By Spring Break

By BOB TRAVERS Associate Editor

The Committee on Rules and Punishments this week issued the preamble to its final report which will be designed to
replace all faculty and student rules governing student conduct. The committee plans to issue a preliminary draft of its report
before spring break in order to allow campus discussion of the proposals before the committee issues its final report, said
senior Mike Carroll, committee chairman. “We did the preamble first partly for our own benefit to work out a philosophy
under which we could operate,” Carroll said.

Murphy: People Need Shake-Up

By DICK ANDERSON Staff Writer

“People around here need to be shaken up a little,” said newly elected Student Government Association President Joe Murphy. That
attitude characterized Murphy's entire campaign. In his chapel speech Monday, and again that night at the presidential forum, Murphy tongue-lashed
the present Student Council with current President Tom Earnhardt sitting close by. “People opposed to me have claimed that I
have no tact, that as soon as I was elected I'd hold a drink-in and that I wasn’t even going
to try to cooperate with the faculty, but that just isn’t true,” Murphy said. “I just want to try to
see that something gets done. Lots of other presidents have run on open dorms and drinking-on-campus platforms before, but no
one has even tried to follow through.”

ANOTHER ‘NON-CANDIDATE’

Dean Chapman addresses pre-meds.

Chapman ‘flattered’ But Can't Leave Dartmouth

By JOHN PANCAKE Staff Writer

Another alumnus mentioned as a possible college presidential candidate threw his hat into the growing ring of “non-candidates” yesterday. Dr.
Carleton B. Chapman, Class of ‘36, said, “I am not in a position to consider moving to another job.” The
dean of the Dartmouth Medical School added, “I am in a job to which I am totally committed. A college
administrator must discharge his responsibilities or fail. I have done neither in my present position in the short time (two
years) I have been there.” Chapman said that this is a fundamental principle for any college administrator. He termed any
administrator who failed to recognize this as “irresponsible.” The soft-spoken, articulate heart specialist spent three days on campus. Wednesday night
he spoke to pre-med majors, and on Thursday he spoke in chapel on domestic problems, specifically civil rights and black
power, and the Vietnam war. Chapman said that he was “astounded ... and flattered” that he was being mentioned as
a presidential candidate. He added that he had not been approached by anyone about the presidency. Chapman noted that the
selection of a president is very difficult due to the small number of qualified candidates. The former Rhodes Scholar characterized
Davidson as “an ideal place to be president.” Because the president should be involved with curricular and academic affairs as
well as with fund-raising programs for the college, Chapman called the presidency a “tall order.”approached the faculty on the drinking
issue in 11 years." As do many other students, Murphy believes that perhaps the main campus problem is student apathy.
“If students aren't concerned about something—like the drinking rule, for instance, the faculty isn't going to be up and changing
it itself," Murphy said. “I think something can be done, though.”

"which we will write the whole body of regulations,” said committee member Dr. David Kaylor, assistant professor of Bible and
religion. “In the light of the finished document and discussion in the college community we can and may change the
preamble to a certain extent,” Kaylor said.

The preamble states that the complete document, to be entitled the ‘Davidson College Code of Responsibility,’ “is based upon the
belief that Davidson's educational purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes the responsible use of freedom, as
opposed to license." It goes on to say “responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the
college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his
own actions and decisions."

Kaylor said, “This is different from the present philosophy of student conduct. It stresses responsible conduct without specific prohibitions except
where we feel specific prohibitions are necessary. Eventually in some form, the preamble and the proposals of the committee will
be submitted to the faculty. This will be done through the faculty Student Life Committee which has followed the activity
of CRAP since it began meeting before Thanksgiving. “We discussed for a few (See CRAP, Page Six)

Forum To Study Southern Writing

The Reynolds Lectureships will sponsor a symposium on Modern Southern Literature at Davidson March 18-19. Visiting professors, who will speak
on “The Relevance of Modern Southern Literature,” include Walter Sullivan of Vanderbilt University and C. Hugh Holman and Louis D.
Rubin Jr. of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. All have written criticisms of Southern literature.

The program, being coordinated by professor George Core of the English Department, will include three addresses open to the student
body and will be climaxed by a symposium in which students will be able to question the speakers. The addresses
will be held either in Hodson Hall or in Love Auditorium during chapel period.

2 Former Roommates, Two Girls, Diamonds

The tie that binds knotted two former roommates to their girls Saturday, unknown to each other. Juniors Johnny Roe and
Don Sewell both went home for the weekend and got engaged. Neither had planned to. They both went home, Roe
to Clarksville, Tenn., and Sewell to Cumberland, Md., to be with their girls for the weekend and impetuously decided to
give them diamond rings. Roe and Sewell roomed together for two years. Both of their future wives were born on
March 4, 1947. They do plan different dates for their weddings.

The writers used as references for the speeches are William Faulkner, Thomas Wolfe, and Flannery O'Connor. All of the books
being discussed will be available in the college bookstore shortly.

Saturday, March 9

Opposition Petition Gathers More Names

By PAUL SCHNEIDER
Staff Writer

A petition to abolish the drinking rule at Davidson is being circulated by junior John Pancake. Copies of the petition
have been given to at least 10 fraternities. Pancake said he hopes to contact the remaining fraternities shortly. So far
five sheets have been returned with a total of 176 signatures. “We're still working on it and will try to
get around to all the fraternity houses again,” Pancake said. Friends have been helping Pancake to circulate the petition. Pancake
indicated that anyone who wished to sign the petition should stop by his room. “I was just sitting, thinking. A
couple of professors had told me there would be a chance of changing the rule if a good petition with
enough names was presented,” Pancake explained.

The petition states, “We the undersigned believe that the faculty rule against drinking on campus ought to be abolished.” Pancake
said, “It is purposely short because there are a number of good reasons why the rule should be abolished. I
didn’t want to give a particular reason and exclude others.” “Some people know that CRAP (Committee on Rules and Punishments)
is looking into the whole matter right now. Since the rules are being reviewed, this is a good time to
present it,” he said.

Race Caused Riots - Trask

By EDWARD HAY
Staff Writer

White racism was the basic cause of last summer’s race riots, and an understanding of it is the only solution
to the problem, according to a staff member of the President's Commission on Civil Disorder. George Trask, a special assistant
on the commission staff, told Open End listeners last night that this racism was the result of situations in the
environment which have existed since the nation’s founding. Trask pointed to slavery as the origin of the present discrimination against
the Negro. Until this discrimination is ended, he said, the problems will not be solved. “The Negro has had a
taste of what it is like to be a whole man, and until he is granted the same rights we
have, the right to make a choice, he will not be satisfied."

In a question-and-answer period, Trask said that one important aspect of the commission's report is that it is the first
time a major government report has taken such a stand, placing the blame on white racism. According to Trask, the
report does not point to the rioters as the ones to be blamed for the disturbances, but to the race
situation. The future of the report, and the hopes of the commission, he said, lie with the leaders of the
nation, and their reactions. “The key to keeping the riots to a minimum this summer is a well-equipped police and
National Guard,” Trask said. “There is no doubt in the minds of the members of the commission that there will
be a repeat of the troubles last year this summer. It is a fact which must be faced.”

As steps in the ultimate resolution of the problem, Trask pointed to education, a revamping of the welfare program, open
housing, and a commitment on the part of national leaders.

Appeals Court Named

Seven students were named to the new Court of Appeals by the Student Council this morning during chapel period. Appointed
by the council were senior Bruce Weihe, juniors Bud Cousar and John Passmore, sophomores Franklin Anderson and Bob Dunham, and
freshmen Dick Allison and Harrison Higgins. The council postponed its scheduled election of members to the new Student Government Court
because of a lack of time. That court will be picked Monday.

The Court of Appeals, created by the new student body constitution, will hear cases involving constitutional interpretation. Its new members
were selected by the council from a long list of students who had signed up. Applicants were screened Tuesday in
a brief session and the final group accepted today by a two-thirds vote of the council.
