Page Six November 15, 1968, The Davidsonian

Dates’ Housing: Scarce, But ‘Adequate’
By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

Although many students have to search high and low to find a place where a date can stay for a weekend, there is really no shortage of accommodations here, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing. There are over 300 possible places for dates to stay in Davidson on a given weekend, Mrs. Nicholls said. Some 213 spaces are actually filed with her office, but “many more are available if you hunt for them.”

On dance weekends, more private lodgings become available, although they are often crowded, Mrs. Nicholls said, and on the three big weekends 609 spaces can be rented in Richardson and Belk dormitories. “The biggest problem in date housing is that of sudden cancellation,” said Mrs. Nicholls. “Boys will reserve rooms for their dates, then never show up and never call to cancel the reservation. So, the room is tied up with nobody in it. “During big weekends, for example, there are upwards of 50 reserved spaces in the dorms that are either never used or cancelled at the last minute,” Mrs. Nicholls said.

Although there are a few motels near Davidson, these are rarely used because, said Mrs. Nicholls, “parents will usually flinch at the notion of their daughter staying in a motel.”

Mrs. Nicholls mentioned several suggestions she had heard that aim at making date housing easier to find. Among these ideas were the construction of a guest house for dates and the establishment of a central office through which reservations could be made. She viewed both changes as unlikely—the first because the college could not furnish enough spaces to change the situation, and the second because many of the townspeople prefer to handle their own reservations.

Several women who keep dates in their homes and who are on Mrs. Nicholls’s list of available housing thought that a shortage of date housing could be a serious problem, especially on concert weekends when the dorms are not available. Mrs. A. A. Wolf, the wife of a Davidson physics professor, has room for five girls but wound up housing eight during the last dance weekend. “I had to turn down 30 to 40 besides the eight I accepted,” she said. Mrs. Wolf did not think that the college could afford to construct facilities for housing dates, but added, “Perhaps if the need were publicized more, more townspeople would make spaces available.” Mrs. F. T. Stough of Davidson can keep 10 girls, but said that she, too, had had to turn many away. “Unless there are a lot of unlisted housing spaces, I don’t see where they go.” Another Davidson townswoman, Mrs. Mabel Broyles, who has space for six girls, said that she was able to refer all her extra boarders to other places in town. “Somehow they all got settled,” she said, “but everyone who will keep a date should register with Mrs. Nicholls.”

What About Area Exams?
These freshmen were asked the following question: “Do you think area exams are fair?”:
Rick Michaels: “I think they're fair. They will encourage students to work on their own."
Gary Scribalt: “I'm not actively supporting the area exams, I'm just accepting them.”
Jack Latiner: “Only time will tell whether the area exams will achieve what it is thought they will. Basically, I think they're fair, but I have doubts about the achievement of the desired results."
Howard Ramagli: “The theory behind the area exams is good, but I don't think they will prove to be practical. They're too broad. The faculty is trying to put four years of courses into two years. The first exams will either be too hard or too easy. The freshman class this year is just a guinea pig.”

Up ‘n’ Coming
Friday, November 15
All Day Ninth Annual Sacred Music Convocation
10:10 a.m. Stammtisch Snackbar
2 p.m. Freshman Football: Richardson Field Davidson vs. Furman
2:30 p.m. Soccer: Raleigh, N. C. Davidson vs. N. C. State
7 p.m. Movie: Becket Morrison Room
8 p.m. Organ Recital: College Church Dr. Robert Baker
11 p.m. Sailing: Columbia, S. C. Davidson vs. Citadel
Saturday, November 16
Football: Spartanburg, S. C. Davidson vs. Wofford
Sunday, November 17
3 p.m. “Four Seasons in Concert”
Monday, November 18
9 a.m. Film: Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte
2 p.m. Perkins Auditorium

Richardson Fellows Finish Initial Selection Process
Richardson Fellows today completed the initial screening of 60 applicants for the leadership program. The process has already completed its primary phase, that of informing freshmen about the program, and is now in the selection phase. The fellows program, under a grant of $20,000 from the Smith Richardson Foundation of Greensboro, seeks to develop leadership qualities, beginning in the freshman year, through various work and study projects.

Mike Mooty, director of the program along with Dr. W. G. McGavock, said that for the past two weeks, two-man teams of sophomore fellows have interviewed all applicants. Mooty stressed that in these interviews, the fellows have sought to be absolutely fair in trying to discover the characteristics of each applicant which would make his experience in the program profitable.

Based on these interviews, the fellows will evaluate each applicant, and the group being considered will be cut twice before the final selections are made. McGavock said that the faculty advisory committee to the program has the sole responsibility of selecting the group. Based on the evaluations of the sophomore fellows and the recommendations of hall counselors, faculty advisers, and some student leaders, this faculty committee will narrow the applicant group to 40. Individual members of this faculty committee will conduct a second round of interviews, and the group of applicants will be cut to 20. At this point, the selection process will become more intensive and difficult. The remaining applicants, McGavock said, will go to Montreat for a weekend early next year for a final round of interviews.

Commissions (Continued From Page 1)
plan for making Davidson more relevant to society. Kilpatrick hopes to initiate a Davidson summer school for under-achievers at the high school level. Slade has plans for recruiting more Negro students at Davidson while Parks is interested in the social, economic, and racial problems of Mecklenburg County and what interest Davidson College should take in these.

OPEN HOUSE
The following faculty homes will be open to students this Sunday night at 8:

By STEVE CROSS
Staff Writer

“The education network is collapsing of its own Byzantine weight,” Dr. Ralph Beckmann said Tuesday in a chapel speech which was made voluntary because of damage caused by the bad weather. Beckmann is one of five members of the Institute for Research and Design (REDE) which has set up an office in an old windmill in Providence, R. I. From the windmill, REDE hopes to come up with new methods of education better suited to “these changing times," according to Beckmann. REDE is also attempting to bring together the disciplines of ethics, science, and art to create new varieties of architectural design, Beckmann said.

Beckmann recalled a speech he heard while in college by social critic Lewis Mumford. Mumford pronounced an ancient Chinese curse on his audience: “May you live in interesting times.” According to Beckmann, we do. Since he heard Mumford’s speech, Beckmann said there have been many developments which have changed our environment. These include communication discoveries that may make the book obsolete, and the introduction of the birth control pill and its effects on conventional standards of morality.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS
Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT
Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
BIFF FINE
Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM
Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE
News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN
Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE
Cartoonists:
ZACK MOBLEYCULLUM ROGERS
Photography Editors: BILL OLSON, DAVID WEEMS
Photographers: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE, PAT REARDON
Assistant Business Manager: JACK WELLMAN
Advertising Manager: TED HEEFNER
Circulation Manager: TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week: Sterling Abernathy, Joe Smith, Paul Rowland, Norwood Poland, Danny White, Chris Bickley, Bill Lineaweaver, Frank Dana, Jule Young, Steve Cross, Rob Krehbiel, Jim Philips, Bill Sherwood, Bob Wallace, Cecil Burney, Dan Graham, John McLean, A. W. Turner Jr., Steve Williams, Don Parman, and David Branch.

Wee A. B. Brinkley 420 N. Main
W. F. Frey 475 Greenway
David C. Grant

arts and in religion, the pollution of our natural resources and the ominous possibility of worldwide starvation before the end of the next decade.

Brown Patterson
One of REDE's recent projects was its design for a 70-man office with portable partitions — an arrangement much cheaper than the old practice of having many private offices. REDE is also experimenting with non-graded schooling.

W. G. Workman 209 Lorimer

The Montreat interviews will be the basis for the selection of the new group of fellows. Interviewers for the weekend will be Dr. Fred Stair, president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., and Dr. Leslie Rollins, past dean of the Harvard Business School.

Before the rounds of interviewing began, Mooty and McGavock said that the first phase of the process informed freshmen of the purpose of the program. Letters and brochures were sent to all freshmen during the summer, giving them this information and encouraging them to apply for the program.

Judging from the response of Rocky Crosswhite, Joe Kearfott, and Kerry Keith, student members of the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, there will be no major changes recommended for Davidson's athletic policy. Both Crosswhite and Keith favored subsidized athletics with Keith suggesting that even the minor sports be subsidized. Kearfott indicated that he was “theoretically” opposed to subsidization, but that “we're big-time in basketball" and that he favored “going on and subsidizing it.” Only one of the three, Crosswhite, mentioned the possibility of going independent in all sports—that is, non-affiliation with any conference.

There is little more diversity among the student representatives to the Commission on Church Relationship. Both William Brown and Tom Norwood agree right down the line that the purpose of this commission should be to make the church more relevant to the Davidson student. Both felt that most of the students were estranged from the church because of its formalized service and its failure to speak to the needs of the youth. Brown and Norwood said they hoped that the gap could be breached by the use of contemporary worship services on campus. Norwood attributed part of the present student apathy toward the church to the negative approach which he felt the “Bible Department” (now called the ‘Religion’ Department) takes to religion.

Ken Crews is the only member of this commission who had considered terminating the Davidson affiliation with the Presbyterian Church. Crews is primarily interested in how the church affiliation affects Davidson's financial situation and whether the school could fare as well financially without the support of the church.

Although there are minor differences of opinion among their studies, there seem to be no real conflict in the philosophical approaches which these students plan to take toward the issues involved in the commissions. In this respect, the Senate has failed Spencer in his request for student “diversity” of opinion, approach, or philosophy on his commissions.

The summer information was augmented at the beginning of the school year with a special assembly at which several fellows gave detailed accounts of their experiences in the program. Fellows also talked informally about the program at freshman hall meetings.

ROTC Backs Annual Drive For Local Blood Donors
The semiannual Red Cross Blood Drive, sponsored by the Davidson ROTC Department, will begin Monday at 11 a.m. and will continue Tuesday. Donors from the student body, faculty, and community can give blood in the auxiliary gym and handball courts of Johnston Gymnasium from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day. Those under 21 who wish to donate blood must have permission slips signed by their parents. These slips can be obtained in the ROTC Department. Students who have donated previously should bring blood donor cards which certify their previous participation. The college will be in competition with other Piedmont-area schools for a plaque given by the Red Cross. Davidson had won the plaque five consecutive times before losing to Mitchell College.

SLACKS PANTS TROUSERS or whatever you want to call them
We have them by famous makers. From 8.00 Permanent Press Wash Pants and 5.50 Jeans to fine wool “dress drawers.” Available in a complete collection of masculine grooming essentials, SW Inc.—Sole Distributor

Merchants Itch: Shoplifting Rash
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

Someone's getting their magazines, records, books, and pens at The Hub at a five-finger discount, according to proprietor Ralph Quackenbush. The total value of missing goods has varied from zero to $75 per week, depending on the weather and who is minding the store. Quackenbush said a group of young boys would come into The Hub, divert the cashier's attention and steal what they wanted. “I know the group and one of them by name," he said, “but we have to catch them: suspicion is no good." “It’s only when I'm not here that they get anything,” said Quackenbush, explaining that with only one person minding the store it was difficult to keep an eye on all the customers.

Cold weather presents the most problems with shoplifting because of bulky jackets which provide both warmth and cover for stolen goods. Mrs. Taylor Blackwell, one of the owners of the Village Store, reported that she has always had problems with shoplifting. She said her store has changed the arrangement of counters and stopped carrying some merchandise to alleviate losses by theft. She said she had been able to discourage most gang efforts of the sort reported at The Hub, but was plagued by individuals who steal out of need, meanness, or habit. The owner of the Western Auto said he had no major problems with shoplifting. He said when a large group of young boys come in apparently to steal, “I just run them out.”

WESTERN AUTO
LAY-AWAY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS
092-1496

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated
300 E. Morehead
Behind Contes
Charlotte

Soda Shop
Let us freshen your impression
Bring us your suits and shirts
Jackson Cleaners
Depot St.
Just beyond The Coffee Cup

BEST ITALIAN DISHES WEST OF ITALY!
Your Dining Will Be An Experience To Remember!
Rendezvous In Charlotte At
La TORINO RESTAURANT & TAPROOM
Best Pizza in Town
Choice Charcoal Steaks — Imported & Domestic Wines
Brown Bagging — Tap Room
6 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Sunday 4 p.m. to 12 p.m.
One Block East of Indiana Blvd.
1427 E. Fourth
Phone 332-6352