Page Friday, 1 1968 teammate § Payfes Study Nears Completion Sunday Night Open House = A The following homes will be open this Sunday ¢ & at 8: By ALLEN LEWIS Staff Writer The Student Body Regulations Committee is nearing completion of its task of revising the regulations for Davidson College after several months of study and discussion. Junior Dave Clemmons said this week that he expects that his subcommittee will have the final draft ready soon. The executive committee, made up of Clemmons, seniors Woody Faulk and Clay Ford, junior Joe Murphy, and Will Terry, pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is responsible for writing the regulations. The regulations must be in accordance with the philosophy set forth in the preamble to the regulations. Committee Chairman Mike Carroll, senior Tom Clayton, Dr. A. J. McKelway, assistant professor of Bible and religion, and Dr. M. E. Polley, professor of Bible and religion, are writing the preamble. “The preamble,” said Carroll, “will attempt to establish a positive philosophy of discipline. The member of the college community is to be made aware of his responsibility for his actions.” “We are trying to get away from the In loco parentis idea,” said McKelway. “We will be trying to see what is necessary for a scholarly life, for social life, and for communal life. They will probably be less detailed principles which the student courts will interpret.” The Committee hopes to have the final draft in the hands of the faculty and students before the Trustees meet in the spring. Both McKelway and Carroll emphasized that the regulations will have a better chance of being accepted by the faculty and the Trustees if the student body demonstrates a willingness to assume a greater responsibility for its conduct.

Brinkley Clark 420 N. Main Churchill Dr. Bryan Puckett 7 Jackson Court 105 College Dr. Minter Grey Rd. College Presents Radio Program Earl (Buck) Lawrimore, associate director of the college news bureau, has single-handedly initiated “Sounds of Davidson,” an informative broadcast of college news, on a local radio station. Using his former radio experience, Lawrimore has used the resources of the chapel soundroom to record his latest tapes. Notable sounds have included the groans of the new elevator in Chambers during its first round trip and the toll of the Chambers bell. Lawrimore, in his efforts to relay tape recordings to radio stations, used a mild form of subterfuge with the telephone. Not able to wait for the telephone company to set up recording equipment for telephone transmission of tapes, he rigged a device to work from the mouthpiece of a telephone set. This tampering with the telephone spurred the phone company to set up the recording device. The recordings required a theme song about Davidson, which Davidson does not have. The alma mater was too slow and the Wind Ensemble’s rendition of “Strike Up the Band” was considered inappropriate. So the noise of the elevator was used. Incorporating college news gathered by Lawrimore and students, the Davidson College News Bureau has been able to expand its five minutes of news coverage into a half-hour time slot on WBT radio every Sunday afternoon from 3:30 to 4 p.m.

Council Hears 2 Reports In two meetings this week, the Student Council received a verbal report on the student exchange trip to Haverford Tuesday night from exchange chairman Joe Kilpatrick and considered measures Monday to assure adoption of the new constitution. Council President Tom Earnhardt reported briefly on the work of the student committee appointed to advise the trustee committee which will nominate a new president. Earnhardt encouraged students to recommend candidates to the trustees and promised that all would receive “full and careful” consideration. Asked about the trustee by-law requiring the president to be Presbyterian, Earnhardt said that the trustee committee would give any recommendation equal consideration.

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. 375-9723

United States Air Force Box A, Dept. SCP-62 Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 76148 Now, that’s a pretty funny thing for a civilian firm to say. A boss? Right out of college? The first day? But the Air Force can make such offers. As an officer in the world’s largest technological organization, you're a leader. Engineer. Scientist. Administrator. Right where the Space Age breakthroughs are happening. Or how about the executive responsibility of a test pilot clocking 2,062 mph in a YF-12A jet? That could be you, too. But you don’t have to be a pilot in the Air Force to move fast. With your college degree, you zip into Officer Training School, spin out an officer, speed on your way as an executive, in the forefront of modern science and technology. Right on the ground. The Air Force moves pretty fast. Think it over. A man’s career can sometimes move pretty slow.

WESTERN AUTO Western Union Telegrams

AME AGE PLEASE PRINT Z PHONE: 692-6561 COLLEGE GRADUATE DATE MAJOR SUBJECT CAREER INTERESTS HOME ADDRESS THE MOFF GO. P. O. Box 10629 ATLANTA, GA., STATE ZIP

217 N. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

Michel: Finest Steaks Served Anywhere SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone 332-2414

BSHIRTMAKERS Stay fresh looking All the day through. Now in fine dacron-cotton Perma-Press oxfords and pimas. Solids and patterns. 9.00 Join pk Gon Mooresville Our 56th Year

Depends on the giant. Actually, some pi: just regular kinds of guys. Except bigger. Bants areJust reflect on that an advantage. Low? Well, for one thing, you've got more going for you. Take Ford Motor Company. A company in an exciting and vital business. Thinking giant thoughts. About marketing Mustang. Cougar. A city car for the future.

Come to work for this giant and you'll begin to think like one. Because you're dealing with bigger problems, the consequences, of course, will be greater. Your responsibilities heavier. That means your experience must be better—more complete. And so, you'll get the kind of opportunities only a giant can give. Giants just naturally seem to attract top professionals, men that you'll be working with, and for. Marketing and sales pros working hard to accelerate your advancement. Because there's more to do, you'll learn more. In more areas. You may handle as many as three different assignments in your first two years. You'll develop a talent for making hard-nosed, imaginative decisions. And you'll know how these decisions affect the guts of the operation, at the grass roots. Because you'll have been there.

If you'd like to be a giant yourself, and you've got better ideas in marketing and sales, see the man from Ford when he visits your campus. Or send your resume to Ford Motor Company, College Recruiting Department. You and Ford can grow bigger together.

THE AMERICAN ROAD, DEARBORN, MICHIGAN
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Actually, I'm quite big on it.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas
Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course
The ELK’S Now Operated Under New Management

On Campus

(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

MORNINGS AT SEVEN...AND THERE’S NOTHING YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT

Any man who says morning is the best time of day is either a liar or a meadowlark. There is only one way to make morning enjoyable: sleep till noon. Failing that, the very best you can do is to make morning tolerable. This, I am pleased to report, is possible if you will follow three simple rules:

1. Shave properly. By shaving properly I mean shaving quietly. Don’t use a blade that whines and complains. Morning being a time of danger and anger, use a blade that neither clangs nor angers. Use a blade that makes no din on your chin, no squeak on your cheek, no howl on your jowl, no rip on your lip, no waves while it shaves. Use, in short, Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades. I have been shaving for 71 years (not too impressive until one considers that I am 49 years old) and I am here to tell you that the quietest blade I know is Personna. I not only shave with Personna, but I also admire it. Old virtues reappear in Personna; old values are reborn. Personna is a modest blade, an undemanding blade. Personna does not rasp and tug, yelling, “Hey, look at me!” No, sir, not Personna! Silently, respectfully, unobtrusively, Personna whisks your whiskers with nary a whisper. It shucks your soil and stubble without toil and trouble. Why, you hardly know it’s there, this well-bred Personna blade, this paragon of punctilio. Moreover, this crown of the blade-maker’s art, this epitome of epidermal efficacy, is available both in Double-edge style and Injector style. Do your kisser a favor: get some.

2. Breakfast properly. I assert that a Personna shave is the best of all possible shaves. But I do not assert that a Personna shave, bracing though it may be, is enough to prepare you for the hideous forenoon ahead. After shaving you must eat an ample breakfast. Take, for example, the case of Basil Metabolism, a sophomore at V.M.I. Basil, knowing there was to be an inspection by the Commandant one morning, prepared by storing up energy. He recognized that coffee and juice would not sustain him, so he had a flitch of bacon, a clutch of eggs, a batch of bagels, a notch of ham, a bunch of butter, a swatch of grits, a hutch of honey, a patch of jelly, a thatch of jam, a twitch of pepper, and a pinch of salt. The idea was right; the quantities, alas, were not. When the Commandant arrived, Basil, alas, was so torpid that he could not raise his bloated arm in a proper salute. He was, of course, immediately shot by a firing squad. Today, a perforated man, he earns a meager living as a colander in Cleveland.

3. Read properly. Always read the paper at breakfast. It inhibits bolting. But do not read the front page. That is full of bad, acid-making news. Read a more pleasant part of the paper—the Home and Garden section, for example. For instance, in my local paper, The Westport Peasant, there is a delightful column called “Ask a Homespun” which fairly bristles with bucolic wisdom and many an earthy chuckle. I quote some questions and answers:

Q: I am thinking of buying some power tools. What should I get first?
A: Hospitalization.

Q: How do you get rid of moles?
A: Pave the lawn.

Q: What is the best way to put a wide car in a narrow garage?
A: Butter it.

Q: What do you do for elm blight?
A: Salt water gargle and bed rest.

Q: What can I do for dry hair?
A: Get a wet hat.

Personna’s partner in shaving comfort is Burma-Shave, regular or menthol. Together, Personna and Burma-Shave make a considerable contribution toward forenoon survival.