Page Four October 11, 1968 The Davidsonian

Diversity, Publicity Goals Of Recruiting
By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

A meeting of over 30 students from 15 states held in the Union Tuesday night signaled the continuation of Davidson's first attempt at organized recruiting by students. The group was informed of the aims and procedures of the new program by Gary Henschen, chairman of the SGA Student Recruiting Committee, and Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White.

Henschen said the program has two main goals:
— To draw good students to Davidson from diverse economic and social backgrounds
— To publicize Davidson more widely.

“Davidson has been criticized as being too homogeneous,” said Henschen. “The result of this situation is the perpetuation of standard ideas and viewpoints. This lack of diversity goes a long way toward explaining student apathy.”

He then pointed out the procedures of the program. A recruiter will deal with several high schools near his home. During the Thanksgiving break, he is to contact the guidance counselors at these schools to arrange for presentations about Davidson to interested students during the Christmas holidays.

Throughout his talk, Henschen emphasized the importance of recruiting students with backgrounds different from that of the average Davidson student. The search for qualified Negro applicants was given high priority.

Admissions Director H. Edmunds White gave his own outlook on the program. He said that as far as educational and family backgrounds are concerned, the student body has a great deal of diversity already.

Davidson is in no danger of a water shortage due to the drought now affecting much of the state and threatening to close the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson explained that Davidson’s reservoir, Lake Norman, is down seven feet now, but that “it would have to go down 33 feet more before we would be in trouble.” Area rainfall is now 4.06 inches below normal for the year. (Staff Photo by Weems.)

Housing, Child Day Care Center Get Attention Of Mayor’s Group

Davidson's new housing project and the planned Child Day Care Center highlighted discussion at the meeting of the Mayor's Committee on Community Relations Monday night at the Walter Johnson home on Lake Norman.

Wallace Representative Predicts Electoral Win

CHUCK JACKSON Combines “down to earth” and “sophisticated” soul.

Newspaper Wins Top ACP Rating

THE DAVIDSONIAN has received an All-American honor rating in the 78th critical service conducted by the Associated Collegiate Press at the University of Minnesota. All-American is ACP's highest rating, and THE DAVIDSONIAN has won it for 13 consecutive semesters.

“A beautiful job," said the ACP judge. “What more can one say?” The judge singled out the paper's news writing and coverage and its headlines for special praise, but noted deficiencies in the technical quality of its pictures and in its captions.

Student newspapers from more than 500 U.S. colleges and universities were judged on the basis of content, writing, and make-up in categories based on enrollment, frequency of publication, and method of printing. THE DAVIDSONIAN qualified for several scores above the usual maximum in news writing and leads. Headlines were labeled “a professional job.”

By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

“We fully expect to win with the people and the Electoral College.” That was how Reid Stubbs, state chairman of the Wallace for President campaign, predicted the election results to Davidson students at last Monday's Open End.

Stubbs recounted what is in his mind sweeping federal usurpation of state and local powers, sellouts to foreign money interests, capitulation to the enemy in Vietnam, and conspiratorial news reporting by national news media.

Although he was uncertain whether Wallace was himself a segregationist, Stubbs claimed he did not know of a single public statement in which Wallace “reflected on a man for his race or color.” According to Stubbs, Wallace sees the issue as a dispute between federal and local jurisdiction.

While admitting the civil rights movement could have made great progress without Communist influence, Stubbs maintained that there is ample evidence of Communist direction in the movement. He asked the audience to consider the implications of this influence.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday The Hu Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, October 12
11:30 a.m. Alumni Bar-B-Que Luncheon. Union Lawn
2 p.m. Football: Richardson Field Davidson vs. Connecticut
4:45 p.m. Interview with Homer Smith
5 p.m. Lawn Supper

Sunday, October 13
7:30 p.m. Worship Service Morrison Room Union Lawn Lingle Chapel

Monday, October 14
7 p.m. Investment Club Chambers B-3
7:30 p.m. Eu Society Meeting Eu Hall
10 p.m. Open End Union Lobby

Tuesday, October 15
10 a.m. Assembly: PRAM Love Auditorium
7 p.m. Free University Classes
8 p.m. Play: Hodson Hall “Follow the Elephants”
8 p.m. Open End: Union Lobby Neil Evans of Janus Films

Wednesday, October 16
6:45 p.m. Conservative Club Phi Hall
8 p.m. Fine Film: Love Auditorium “Through A Glass Darkly”
8:15 p.m. New Cinema: Morrison Room Program Two
10 p.m. Union Coffee House

Thursday, October 17
10 a.m. Assembly: Snackbar Love Auditorium Dr. Rosalie Gates, Meredith College
8:15 p.m. New Cinema: Morrison Room Program Two

Friday, October 18
10:10 a.m. Stammtisch
8:15 p.m. New Cinema: Snackbar Morrison Room Program TwoRistoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

— if they knew that the 1964 Civil Rights Act was actually written — “word for word” by Pogony, a Russian army officer. Pogony, Stubbs said, wrote under the penname of “Jonathan Swift,” among others. The highpoint of the evening came when three students, robed and hooded as Ku Klux Klansmen, entered the hall. Blushing, Stubbs jested that he was finding more and more Klansmen on campuses these days.

Handbook Editor To Be Elected

The election for editor of the Wildcat Handbook will be held Oct. 23. The deadline for signing up is Oct. 16. Applicants must be juniors, have some publication experience and an understanding of the job. They should file with Tom Baker, 210 Cannon.

The committee attained legal status last week when the Town Council passed an ordinance giving it authority to take conciliatory action on cases of discrimination in Davidson. Mrs. W. P. Cumming, a new member of the committee, reported that so far almost $20,000 had been raised of a projected $25,000 for the Child Day Care Center to be built adjoining the present Child Development Center on Jetton St. “There are no really good day care facilities for Negro children now,” Mrs. Cumming said. “The day care center will provide more than just custodial care for children whose mothers work.” Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, chairman of the committee, said that Mayor Jackson stated Monday afternoon that Hood Norton's Barber Shop was now integrated. In doing so, Hood Norton followed the lead of Ralph Johnson who integrated his shop last spring after a boycott led by student pickets had diverted customers.

Burl Narramore, a member of the committee, reported that 22 houses in the Davidson Development Corp. housing project are now occupied, three more are under construction and six or seven building lots remain in the original development. The project will soon be ready to go into its second phase and will need to borrow about $12,000 to develop 28 or 29 more lots, Narramore said.

New student members of the committee are Mike Maloy and Jesse Sims, with Robert Pyeatt as alternate.

Area Exam Prototypes Available

Information concerning the area examinations, which all freshmen must pass to become juniors, is now available to the freshmen and may be picked up from their faculty advisors. The area examinations are scheduled to be given in mid-January and mid-May of 1969. Each examination can be taken twice without cost but after the second attempt, a fee of $25 will be charged for each examination.

ATTENTION: College Students

For information call MR. LONG, at Reference Programming 377-2998 M-F, 10 a.m.-1 p.m.

Davidsonians And Guests

FTC Slaps Balfour

By JIM BAILEY Staff Writer

The leading dealer in high school and college jewelry, L. G. Balfour Co. of Attleboro, Mass., has been found guilty of unfair competition methods by the Federal Trade Commission. The Commission has issued a cease and desist order designed “to recreate the competitive conditions which the respondent's illegal monopolization eliminated.” Balfour is the sole dealer for Davidson class rings and, along with Burr, Patterson and Auld, has most of the sales for fraternity jewelry. According to the commission’s morning news release of Aug. 28, Balfour has illegally used “official jeweler’s contracts” to foreclose most (86.9 percent) of the market to competition. Balfour has also employed “active disparagement of competitors and their products; the use of threats, coercion and litigation to effect adherence to the ‘official jeweler’s contracts,’” the commission said. In addition, the commission has found that Balfour has deliberately tried to keep secret its acquisition of Burr, Patterson and Auld in order “to preserve an aura of extant competition.” The Commission's news release concluded by stating that evidence of Balfour's “power to fix prices is clearly shown by fraternities’ unquestioned acceptance of price and quality changes instituted by Balfour.”

We have a platform you can read and understand. Write for free copy — no obligation. The Universal Party, P. O. Box 516, Berkeley, California 94701.

Evening Work 5 Hrs. Per Day Minimum work per week 3 days $250 per month

Congratulations and Best Wishes Have an exciting Homecoming Weekend

Natural Shoulder Shops THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN — 126 S. TRYON COTSWOLD — WEST MALL PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER