Off-Season By ROCKY CROSSWHITE

A Man For All Seasons

When Lefty Driesell’s basketball camp closed down last month, Tom Youngdale said goodbye to Davidson basketball. He also put the lid on four years of experiences that could fill a book. Most of the Davidson fans in Charlotte remember Tom by different names or different means. He has been called “Tiger Tom,” “Tom Turkey,” “Dale” or simply “that real tall guy who used to start.”

Tom's height ranged between 6-10 and 6-11 depending on who was writing the programs. His classic answer to the question most often asked, “how tall are you?” was a simple “well, how small are you?” Tom certainly was not the best basketball player who ever put on a Davidson uniform, but he may have been the most unusual. Who can forget watching Tom lead a fast break down the court with everyone in the Coliseum holding his breath, players and coaches included. And then who can forget watching him throw in a 30-foot running hook one time and the next time down the court dropkick the ball into the balcony?

Tom found himself in an entirely new position last year. He was on the bench. At first this bothered him but like most players who sit, he settled into a world of complacency and dreams. During one game, he turned to me and said, “You know, this bench isn’t that bad.” Maybe the cheerleaders who had just finished jumping up and down in front of the chairs had something to do with his decision.

As his teammate, I sat next to Tom on the bench more than anyone else. Through this experience I probably got to know him, if anyone ever did. Tom never liked rules that were designed to make everyone alike. When he came to school as a sophomore, he decided that he was tired of living in the college dorm and wanted to get a place off-campus. At that time, the only way for an underclassman to accomplish this task was to get married or get thrown out of the dorms for some infraction. Tom chose the latter.

He and his roommate threw their beds and most of the furniture in their room out of a second-story window. After this was done, Tom knocked the door off the hinges with a forearm blow that any football coach would admire. Needless to say, the next day Tom and his roomie were off-campus after they paid for the damage.

Last December’s Sugar Bowl Classic basketball tournament in New Orleans presented Tom with another chance “to get out of the dorm.” The Davidson team was staying in a large hotel about 10 blocks from Bourbon Street, but as for getting out and seeing the sights on our own we might as well have been 10 miles away. Tom never let things like this bother him. After an hour or two of reconnoitering the hotel, he found an escape route free of coaches. On the floor above us, there existed an old laundry elevator which went directly to the first floor. From there, a quick dash out a fire escape would lead to the street which ran in back of the building.

Deciding that he would probably be noticed if he left by the front door, Tom took the back route. He made good his escape along with another player and they walked to the French Quarters. Tom thought that he and this other player would just “blend in with the crowd” on Bourbon Street. Unfortunately, this never worked out for it seems that two basketball players, 6-11 and 6-8 respectively, have a hard time blending into anything.

When Tom came to Davidson his sophomore year, he drove back a '56 blue Chevy from his home in Peru, IL. He planned to purchase a new car later on in the year. As it turned out, the Chevy was the newest car Tom ever owned at school. It was March of the next year when some drunk ran into the back of Tom’s machine as it sat in front of his home. Immediately afterwards Tom searched for some form of transportation and came up with a '45 Harley-Davidson Motorcycle that looked like a tractor from the rear. It was the old type with the stick gear shift on the left. Later on Tom found an old World War I flier’s leather helmet with ear flaps and goggles. Along with a white scarf, leather jacket and a pair of sand boots, Tom would ride his “hog” around the streets of Davidson looking like something out of the movies.

Tom also bought a '51 grey Nash for $50. You remember the type. The ones that looked like a bathtub with wheels. Every day it seemed that the students and people of Davidson would be treated with the sight of Tom, all 6-11 of him, hanging out on all sides while riding his cycle, or crouched over the back of a bumper, pushing his Nash.

At the present, rumor has it that Tom is traveling in this country looking for adventure. He is also supposed to return to Charlotte in the near future. The last word anyone heard was that he was working as a bouncer in a bar in Las Vegas, but that could be false. Like it always was, Tom is the only one who knows what he's doing.

Sporttopics

The Davidson baseball team, which began practice last week, will hold a fall game with Pfeiffer College this afternoon at the baseball field. Coach Tom Stevens said that the game will give him a chance to see some of the new players, especially pitchers, perform against the caliber team Davidson will face next spring. Game time is 3 p.m.

In the national collegiate golf tournament this summer, Davidson's golfers finished a respectable 23rd in a large field. Davidson's Mike Spann recovered from his disastrous rounds at the Southern Conference Tournament to lead the team, and placed 20th overall.

Davidson's athletic teams were either the best in the conference last year or the worst, depending on the way you approach the question. In 11 conference sports, Davidson finished first in three (to tie with William and Mary), and last in six (more than any other school). Davidson won the basketball, golf and tennis crowns, and finished last in baseball, wrestling, football, swimming, cross country and track.

SOCCER COACH HARRY FOGLEMAN Optimistic about squad’s chances.

Soccer Squad Has High Hopes By CHARLIE TERRELL Sports Writer

“We plan to win ‘em all!” is the emphatic statement of Coach Harry Fogleman about the possibilities of the Wildcat soccer team for the 1968 season. If experience and determination have anything to do with it, this year’s squad certainly has the power to capture the Southern Conference title.

Last year’s team was composed mainly of freshmen and sophomores, most of whom will be returning to action this fall. Fogleman has five experienced seniors as a nucleus of a fine team, and he can also choose from among 16 freshmen, the largest number of freshmen ever to try out for the team. All of these freshmen booters have had previous playing experience.

Fogleman looks for the Wildcats to have a strong defensive club since both of last year's fullbacks are returning. Another returnee is the 1967 Most Valuable Player, Cliff Patterson, a junior and captain of the team. Back on offense are five of last year’s explosive team members: Bill Horton, Roger Peterson, Randy Carter, Bayard Miller and John Bruner. Horton is probably the most capable on offense, with good dribbling ability and extremely strong shots with either leg. Peterson, a sophomore, plays the wing opposite Horton. As a freshman last season he was one of the best dribblers on the team. Fogleman expects him to be one of the strongest players on the squad. Carter, Miller and Bruner are explosive players, and Fogleman feels their speed and quickness will aid the team tremendously.

Back at goalie position are two veterans, Harry Hamil and Eddie Rice, both seniors. Among the new faces are two freshmen goalies, Charlie Heiner and Steve Culbertson, who have shown fine potential in practice sessions. Other newcomers are three foreign students, Mike Lunn of England, Bjorn Bjarnason of Iceland and Maurice Fonson of Cameroun, West Africa.

Coach Fogleman admitted that his team is not in top condition yet, since there were only 12 days of practice prior to yesterday’s match with Methodist College. In about two weeks, however, the ‘Cats should be in excellent form for the demanding schedule, he said. Tough competition in the Southern Conference is expected, but with the experience and talent on this year’s squad, the Wildcats have high hopes for a successful season.Fri., Sat., Sun. often imitated never duplicated conference race is expected to come from The Citadel and East Carolina, while rough non-conference foes include Emory, Duke, and North Carolina State. Fogleman’s outlook is optimistic and enthusiastic toward the coming season. The Wildcat players themselves say they have come here to win, so the promise is for a real contender for the Southern Conference crown in this year’s squad. 

The Davidsonian October 4, 1968 Page Seven

Awesome Cavaliers Test Improving Cats Tomorrow

By BOB DUNHAM Sports Editor

All of the questions about the toughness of Wildcat footballers will be answered tomorrow when the up-and-coming Wildcats match guns with the highly-favored University of Virginia. Davidson will rely on the skillful passing of Gordon Slade to score and the tough linebacking pair of Lew Homer and Steve Butler to stop the explosive Cavalier offense. Slade will have two main targets in Mike Kelly, who caught 10 passes against Richmond last week, and George Hannen, last year's leading receiver who is now back at full strength after a battle with the mumps. Kerry Keith will run from the fullback slot against the big Virginia line, in an effort to improve last week's poor rushing attack. 

Homer and Butler will have their hands full in containing the speed and drive of quarterback Gene Arnette and All-American candidate tailback Frank Quayle. Virginia comes into the game fresh from a 47-0 rout of VMI, while the Wildcats bring two losses to Scott Stadium, where 25,000 students and alumni are expected for the Virginia homecoming match. Virginia gained early experience this season in an encounter with Purdue, now rated number one in Associated Press and United Press International polls. The Cavaliers lost that contest, 44-13. 

The Cavalier team for 1968 is weaker in the sense that it has lost last year’s Atlantic Coast Conference Player of the Year Bob Davis, all-conference tight-end Ed Carrington, and 22 other lettermen. But returning to the Virginia squad are Arnette, Quayle, and a host of other players who have a new punch, as exhibited last weekend against the VMI Keydets. Quayle, a 5-10, 195-pound senior, is the fastest Virginian. He has been clocked in 4.7 seconds for 40 yards in full football gear. He led the nation in all-purpose yardage his sophomore year. He rushed for a two-year total of 1,482 yards, caught 53 passes for 729 yards, returned 35 kickoffs for 861 yards, and crossed the goal line 21 times. Arnette was third in total offense in the ACC last season, with 1,273 yards. He co-captains the Cavalier squad this year. 

Greg Shelly, an all-American candidate at his defensive tackle position, is 6-2, 238 pounds. He is rated as the best blocking tackle in the ACC and is expected to give the Wildcats a hard time. Another key defensive factor for the Cavaliers is the pass defense, always good and last year second in the nation. With the awesome size and good speed of the Virginia squad, Davidson will be hard-pressed to improve the series record, which belongs to Virginia, 6-0-2.

Big End Kelly Shines In Defeat

By RUSS MERRITT Sports Writer

The conversation at the football coaches’ training table shifted from freshman phys ed, politics, and the cake race to Mike Kelly, a more satisfying subject. “Mike's been playing every day, and his game improves with each outing,” Coach Homer Smith said of the big end. “He's been a real leader on this football team this year." Such praise is nothing new for Kelly, who starred in high school for his North Mecklenburg team. While at North, he set the Shrine Bowl record for touchdown pass receptions and was regarded as one of the outstanding prep gridders in the country. Stardom didn't stop there for Kelly, either, as the 6-4, 195-pounder was so impressive as a freshman that he was tabbed “one of the best football athletes ever to attend Davidson." 

When talking about last week's 24-14 loss to Richmond, Smith found it difficult not to mention Kelly when reviewing the good points of the Wildcat attack. “Mike played his best football game ever against Richmond last Saturday night," Smith said. “He's a good, tough player and a real outstanding receiver.” The lavish compliments don't stop there. Other members of the staff make such comments as “his blocking is 100 percent improved,” “he's a great downfield blocker,” and “he is a complete receiver, with speed, agility, hands, and brains.” In the encounter with the Spiders, Kelly gathered in 10 passes, one shy of the school record set last year by George Hannen. Two of his catches accounted for the Wildcat touchdowns, each going for 35 yards. 

Many persons wonder how a bonafide superstar feels playing for a team that hasn't shown much promise thus far. “I enjoy playing for Davidson," Kelly said. “There is really not much that can be said after losing the first two games, but something can be done, and we're going to do it.” To listen to Kelly, you would think that he is just a run-of-the-mill college player. “My game's all right so far,” he will modestly contend. “I guess I’m doing all right.”

NEW AND USED FURNITURE! To make your room more comfortable see Howard & Brawley Furniture Co. Phone 662-1881 162 N. Main St. Mooresville, N. C.

ADLER The gym sock that grew up THE ADLER COMPANY Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 A Division of Burlington Industries