EXTRA VOL. LV

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1968

ROTC DECISION DELAYED

Trustees Unanimously Pass Blue Sky Changes

The Board of Trustees, meeting here Dec. 20, unanimously approved all but one of the recommendations of the Blue Sky
Committee, leaving until its May meeting a final decision on the ROTC issue. Implementation of the far-reaching curriculum changes will
begin next fall. The Blue Sky Committee recommended that ROTC, compulsory for freshmen and sophomores since 1919, be made voluntary,
but the trustees, after hearing Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, put off its decision until May 3.
“There is a great deal to be said for both sides” of the ROTC question, Trustee President Walter L. Lingle
Jr. said afterwards. Lingle said Outlaw appeared before the trustees “the better part of 45 minutes.” Lingle called the changes
“a tremendous step forward” for the college.

The Blue Sky changes were initiated by a 1965 visit of representatives of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
The representatives, while praising the college in general, found the curriculum “dull and unimaginative” and urged the college to do
“some dreaming and some blue-skying.” An 11-man committee of nine faculty members and two students, chaired by Dean of Faculty
Frontis W. Johnston, was appointed in the spring of 1966.

Money Available For Curriculum Financing

Problems involved in instituting the Blue Sky Committee proposals have been resolved by budgetary reallocations within the college and additional
outside funds, the President's Office explained today. The Board of Trustees approved the financing proposal and the initiation of the
new curriculum at a meeting Dec. 20 on the campus. Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston said that next year the
new graduation requirements and new calendar would be instituted. The non-Western studies program, honors college, and learning center will be
delayed. “We plan to have the full program in operation in two or three years,” Johnston said. “However, we still
hope further funds will come in that would enable us to begin the non-Western studies and honors college program next
year.”

Budgetary allocations which will aid in financing the program include smaller faculty salary increases and no enlargement of staff and
administration, according to Billi Bondurant, assistant to the president. The size of the athletic program will also be frozen, Bondurant
said. Faculty salary increases over the next few years will (See FINANCES, Page Two)

ROTC Will Get More Study

In order to give the proposal further study, the trustees decided to postpone final consideration of the ROTC recommendation of
the Blue Sky Committee. “The trustees did not know what to do with the proposal; a great many people there
did not want to see ROTC crippled, which they felt the recommendation would do. I don't know how many because
no count was taken,” said Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. Colonel Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of Military Science, spoke
to the trustees at the Dec. 20 meeting but declined to comment on what he said. However, Outlaw's previously stated
position is that making Basic ROTC non-compulsory, which is the Blue Sky committee's recommendation, would destroy the program. Outlaw feels
that the present program is the best possible for Davidson.

Faculty, Trustees Express Surprise At Announcement

Faculty members and trustees who commented on the resignation of President D. Grier Martin expressed surprise and an affirmation of
Martin's contributions as president. Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology, said, immediately after the announcement to the faculty, “This
is a complete surprise and a... Gosh, (pause) I don't like it. I had looked forward to many years of
progress under him, both personally and professionally.” “I sincerely regret to see President Martin's resignation,” Dr. Earl MacCormac, associate professor
of philosophy, said. “President Martin has shown able leadership in his term as president and has led Davidson College to
educational excellence and financial security.” MacCormac added, “I am personally grateful for all he has done for Davidson College. I
feel that the college is immeasurably better because of President Martin's leadership.”

Dr. W. G. McGavock, professor of mathematics, said in a written statement, “I have known President Martin for many years
and have an affection and respect for him such as I have had for few men. His resignation is characteristic
of the man. When he decided that he had made his maximum contribution and that new leadership should be called
in for a renewal of the drive for excellence at Davidson, he made a decision that he felt was for
the best interest of the college.” McGavock was the only faculty member interviewed that would comment on what qualifications Martin's
successor should have.

Growth, Changes Mark Martin’s Administration

Since assuming the presidency in the spring of 1958, D. Grier Martin has led Davidson College on a series of
ventures toward the development of academic, financial, and physical resources. During his term in office, he has witnessed the successful
completion of a large fund-raising campaign, the planning for a new library and learning center, numerous changes in the physical
plant, and the approval of extensive curriculum changes. Last October a new challenge fund campaign, begun with a $500,000 conditional
grant from E. H. Little, was announced to provide a new $2 million library and learning center for the college.

During the period of his presidency, Martin has led many projects for construction and addition to the physical plant of
the college. Projects have included:
— Patterson Fraternity Court, $500,000;
— Charles A. Dana Science Laboratories, $725,000;
— Martin Science building remodeling, $50,000;
— Cunningham Fine Arts Center, $680,000;
— Lake Norman campus recreation center, $47,000;
— College Union addition and remodeling, $337,000;
— Steam plant modernization, $165,000;
— Chambers building remodeling, including the Dome Room, Love Auditorium, and the remainder of the entire building, $2 million.

A two-year humanities program was conceived and begun during Martin’s tenure, along with a developmental reading program, intercollegiate debate, an
audio-visual center, a language laboratory, a drama department, and the first Negro students were admitted. Among other curricular additions at
the school during Martin's presidency was the institution of a Junior-year abroad program in 1964. The Richardson International Scholar program
also was operative during his entire presidency.

Student Opinion: ‘A Great Person’

A sampling of student opinion following Dr. D. Grier Martin's announcement of his resignation this afternoon revealed...Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Both respect and admiration for his achievements. Speculation was rife among the students contacted that the successor for Martin will
be drawn from somewhere outside the Davidson College community. Tom Earnhardt, Student Council President, reflected on who the successor should
be or who might be considered for the presidency. “I would be unrealistic to say that any man has all
of these qualifications. I think that perhaps the time has come for Davidson to consider a division of responsibilities. It
is impossible for one man to take the lead in searching out financial support such as is needed in all
good schools today, and at the same time give leadership in raising a college to true academic excellence.”

Other faculty members (See REACTION, Page Two) shared the view of a majority of the students. He said, “I am
very sorry he is leaving, but I feel very fortunate to have had the opportunity to know and to observe
this truly great administrator and person." Senior Joe Beard also expressed regret, saying, “I hope that the trustees will choose
a successor who is committed to the same preservation of academic standards and unique character of Davidson College.”

A majority of the students polled noted Martin's abilities as a fund-raiser and a number of them hoped that this
ability would be shared by his successor. William Farris, a sophomore, said that he felt “the school needs a great
deal of money to continue its pace of change; it needs someone to follow President Martin who knows how to
get it.” Nat Heyward, a senior, summed up the majority of the comments of the students with opposing views: “He
was a great administrator, but I hope that the next president will perhaps be more academically inclined.” Junior Randy Phillips
saw the opening as a chance to obtain “a young, dynamic president who might set the place on fire—who would
wake us up.”

---

SPECIAL EDITION

---

Blue Sky, Ford Climax Tenure

Dr. D. Grier Martin, president of Davidson since 1958, told the faculty today that he had tendered his resignation to
the college trustees. His resignation will become effective on June 30. Martin explained that his decision was made at this
time because the successful conclusion of the Ford Challenge campaign and the approval of a new curriculum to begin next
fall combined to form an appropriate climax to his decade in the presidency. Martin said that the pressures and responsibilities
of the office will, in the next decade, demand physical stamina beyond his present resources.

Walter L. Lingle, Jr., president of the trustees, issued the following statement: “It is with deep regret that I must
respect Dr. D. Grier Martin's request that I submit his resignation to the trustees of Davidson College. Dr. Martin has
been a great president of Davidson College. During his 10-year tenure, the college has advanced on all fronts. He has
given the leadership for an increase in the value of the college's endowment and plant of over $13 million. The
quality and the breadth of the college's curriculum have already been markedly improved during Dr. Martin's administration and he has
recently helped to set the course for a further important advance in curriculum. The standing of the college in academic
circles has reached an all-time high during Dr. Martin's term in office. I only hope that we can be fortunate
enough to find someone of equal stature to succeed him."

---

President Gives Personal Reasons

ED. NOTE: This is the text of President D. Grier Martin’s statement to the faculty this afternoon.

For a total of 19 years, it has been my high privilege to serve Davidson College: from 1933 to 1936
as Alumni Secretary, from 1951 to 1958 as Treasurer and Business Manager, and since 1958 as President of the College.
This experience has been one of great challenge, responsibility, and honor. It is the type of experience that comes to
few men. I am grateful to this faculty, to the trustees, to my administrative colleagues, to the alumni, parents, and
friends—to all those who during this period have worked zealously and well to achieve a record of progress—both in educational
program and in financial resources.

Credit for whatever progress has been made during the last 10 years should go to the trustees for their overall
guidance and support, to the faculty which is responsible for the academic program and for many other areas of the
college’s life, to my associates in the administration who have helped and supported me, and to that large group of
people on our staff who provide the facilities and services which make possible the effective work of faculty, students, and
administration.

Now, however, because of personal considerations, it is my plan to retire from the presidency of the college at the
end of the current academic year in June. The successful conclusion of the Ford Challenge campaign and the approval of
a new curriculum to begin next fall combine to form an appropriate climax to a strenuous decade in the presidency.
It is my expectation that I will utilize my experience in the service of higher education during the years ahead
in various special and consultative capacities. My plans in this regard will be shared with you as they become definite.
You may be sure that I will always do everything I can—both before and after June 30—to further the welfare
and effectiveness of this college and the people—faculty, students, administrators, and alumni—who are its most important assets.

I am certain that Davidson is on the threshold of probably the most important period in its history. I am
deeply confident, too, that you will more than measure up to the tasks ahead. They will involve, as you know,
the blending of all the traditional strength that is Davidson with the creative flexibility needed to make Davidson's future the
profoundly exciting and inspiring story it can and must be. It will tell, as it has in the past, of
students and teachers searching together for truth and for a better world.

My wife, our family, and I feel a deep gratitude to Davidson College and the wonderful people who live and
work here and we shall always cherish and remember our personal friendships with all of you. I wanted you to
be the first to have this information. It is the members of the faculty who made known to the trustees
in 1958 that they would be pleased if I were appointed to the presidency of the college. Without that enthusiastic
endorsement, I am certain that the trustees would not have elected me to the office. Without that endorsement, I would
not have accepted the appointment.

“The past is but prologue to the future” and I am sure that you and all of us who have
faith in this college will continue to work to develop “men of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and
of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.”
