WEATHER: Partly cloudy, mild tonight, low 53. Chance of showers Saturday, Saturday night, and Sunday. High Saturday 80, low 55. High Sunday 77.

VOL. LVI : 3 | VOICE OF THE EXPERT

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1968

Barbers Refuse Financial Offer
By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The faculty passed a student-proposed resolution calling for the integration of "all public facilities in the town of Davidson" yesterday by a large margin. The resolution was the result of a Tuesday-night meeting of the students involved in the boycott committee. The students also decided not to resume picketing and voted down a motion to hold a sit-in.

Earlier Tuesday night several members of the faculty conferred with barbershop owners Hood Norton and Ralph Johnson in an effort to solve the integration question by offering Norton and Johnson financial recompensation for losses they might suffer due to integrating their shop. However, both refused, though the possibility of economic losses had been used by both Norton and Johnson as a reason not to integrate, said Dr. Dan Rhodes, one of the faculty members. The student committee therefore decided to try to open an integrated barber shop in the near future.

Monday night the Town Council discussed a town public accommodations ordinance. They decided to refer the question to a study group and to follow the progress of the situation.

CRAP Report Importance Not Rule Change--Carroll
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

The proposed change in the drinking rule and the open dorm section of the Committee on Rules and Punishment (CRAP) Code of Responsibility are the least important parts of the report, according to Mike Carroll, CRAP chairman. Carroll said this week that the philosophy behind the report as stated in the preamble was more important.

CRAP members discussed the proposed Code at a sparsely-attended Open End Wednesday night. In an opening statement, Carroll emphasized that the report printed in last week's DAVIDSONIAN was merely a draft. "Negotiations with the different organizations involved are still in progress," he said.

Dr. R. D. Kaylor, one of the two faculty representatives on the committee, pointed out that the faculty's Committee on Student Life must make its recommendations on the CRAP report to the faculty. Then the report must be voted on by the faculty and the Board of Trustees before it goes into effect.

During the discussion that followed, the committee members pointed out that Article I, Section 10, had already been changed. This section, dealing with open dorms, had set hours for the dorms to be open. Under the revision, Section 10 states that the Residence Hall Association is responsible for setting up hours and procedures for open dorms.

In a discussion of the article on the judiciary, the committee pointed out that the inclusion of the Honor Court in the report did not mean that the faculty would become involved in the Honor System.

YET ONCE MORE
The staffs of the "Q&C" and "The Miscellany" have always lost the annual croquet match—mainly because they've never showed up. THE DAVIDSONIAN renews the challenge, for 3 p.m. tomorrow at the lake campus.

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

Faculty Calls For End To Town’s Racial Bars

The students also decided not to resume picketing and voted down a motion to hold a sit-in. Earlier Tuesday night several members of the faculty conferred with barbershop owners Hood Norton and Ralph Johnson in an effort to solve the integration question by offering Norton and Johnson financial recompensation for losses they might suffer due to integrating their shop. However, both refused, though the possibility of economic losses had been used by both Norton and Johnson as a reason not to integrate, said Dr. Dan Rhodes, one of the faculty members. The student committee therefore decided to try to open an integrated barber shop in the near future.

Monday night the Town Council discussed a town public accommodations ordinance. They decided to refer the question to a study group and to follow the progress of the situation.

Preyer Seeks To Serve Congress, Not College
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

Richardson Preyer, a candidate for a congressional seat from North Carolina's sixth district, said this week that he seeks to serve Congress, not the college.

Choice ’68 Gives Students Voice In Collegiate Survey
By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

Choice '68, the first national collegiate presidential primary, will be Wednesday at Davidson. About six million college students may participate. Underwritten by the Time-Life Corp., Choice '68 was organized by an 11-man student board representing all regions of the country, and will be conducted simultaneously on almost 1500 campuses. Over 70 percent of those eligible to vote in the primary are under 21. Returns are expected to give a good indication of how voters between 21 and 25 will cast their ballots.

"The psychological effects of this polling should be tremendous. It may have much the same effect as one of the smaller state primaries such as the New Hampshire Primary," emphasized Tom Earnhardt, former student council president.

In addition to presidential choices, students will be asked to register their opinions on major current issues. Ballots are in computer punch-card form and will be rushed back to the Time-Life data-processing center in New York City where results from the participating campuses will be tabulated. Davidson will receive an itemized return of how its students voted. Polls will be open in the lobby of Chambers from first period to 3 p.m. Wednesday.

Little Flames On With Second Fire

Sunday morning around 3:30 a.m. a fire was discovered on the first floor of Little dormitory by the security officer on duty—Little’s second fire of this semester. The fire broke out in "a pile of papers stacked against the walls," according to Frank Fleming, who was awakened by the smoke and the crashing of glass as the security officer went for the extinguisher. Although Fleming could not definitely state whether or not the fire was intentional, he did recall that there were several fires in trash cans the night before, and he was certain these were intentional. E. N. Linker, campus security officer who was not on duty but who

Students To Celebrate The Rites Of Spring

FRIDAY, APRIL 19
8 p.m. Concert: Jay and the Americans, Love Auditorium
10:15 p.m. Movie: “Juliet of the Spirits,”

SATURDAY, APRIL 20
1:30 p.m. Regatta: Lake Norman Yacht Club, Lake Norman
3 p.m. Challenge Cup Croquet Match: THE DAVIDSONIAN vs. The “Q&C” and “The Miscellany” Lake Campus
8 p.m. Concert: Ray Charles, Love Auditorium
11:15 p.m. Movie: “Incredible Shrinking Man,”

(Staff Photo by Olson)
Town attorney Howard Arbuckle (R.) explains legalities to the town council.

(Staff Photo by Friebele)
THE COLLECTOR Bob Love (L.) shells out to Marshall Guill for Negro scholarship.

Negro Fund Drive Hit By Inaction, Prejudice
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON

letter to the editor last week as "hiring the question to a study group and to follow the progress of the situation."was called about the fire, termed it “unfortunate.” Referring to the stack of papers in the hall, Linker stated that the fire “might have been started on purpose.” However, the possibility of accident has not been ruled out. An earlier fire last February did about $3,000 damage on the third floor of Little.

He was not a candidate for another vacant post: the Davidson presidency. In an interview with the Greensboro Daily News Tuesday, Preyer said that a report he had been offered the Davidson job was incorrect and added: “While it's very flattering to be considered for such a post as the presidency of Davidson College, my heart is set on running for Congress. The challenge I'm most interested in is representing all the people of the sixth district.” The Daily News also reported that a press release from Davidson said that a list of 86 potential candidates had now been whittled down to 12, all Presbyterians. The College News Bureau, however, said it had no knowledge of the release. Preyer, also a Presbyterian, is chairman of Davidson's Board of Visitors. He is unopposed for the Sixth District Democratic nomination.

Carroll Awarded Fellowship

Mike Carroll has been awarded a Rockefeller Trial Year Fellowship for theological study, the Fund for Theological Education, Inc., has announced. Carroll plans to use the fellowship at the University of Chicago Divinity School next year. The fellowship covers all institutional expenses. The Rockefeller Fellowships are designed for men who would not ordinarily have gone to seminary and who agree in that year to consider the ministry as a vocation. Carroll, a history major, is chairman of the Committee on Rules and Punishments, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Kappa Alpha, Alpha Phi Omega honorary service fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish honorary, and is a Dana Scholar.

“I definitely haven't been offered the (Davidson) job,” Preyer told the Daily News. “I was sounded out about allowing my name to be submitted to the selection committee—along with about a hundred others. But I told the people who asked me about it that I was definitely committed to making this race for Congress." Preyer, a Greensboro resident, made an unsuccessful bid for the N.C. gubernatorial nomination in 1964.

Managing Editor

Progress on the Negro Scholarship Fund has been slow, due mainly to inaction by many of those collecting and to opposition to the idea, according to Rick Harrell, acting treasurer of the students organizing the drive. “There is actually more opposition than I had anticipated—more of an anti-Negro element,” Harrell said. Harrell said he did not really know how much money had been collected so far, because many of those involved in the collection had not reported, and others planned to see students after Spring Frolics. He expressed disappointment at some of the response, in particular that of students opposing the drive. “It’s really bad... Maybe it’s better if Negroes don't come if things are going to be like this.” At the same time, however, he expressed confidence that there was enough support within the student body to put the fund over $2400.

Former DAVIDSONIAN editor Sam Boyte had denounced the drive in a (Negro) student to come in for a year to be unhappy because of Davidson’s homogenized whiteness,” but then apparently reversed himself Monday in assembly by appearing on the stage with other supporters of the drive. Boyte said Thursday night, however, that his apparent support Monday was due to a misrepresentation of the program. “I do not favor the Negro scholarships,” he said.

The drive began with collections Tuesday and Wednesday after an explanatory student body assembly Monday morning. It resulted from an offer by psychology professor W. G. Workman to put up $100 for a scholarship for a Negro student if students would match it with $2400. Workman’s reaction came as a reaction to an editorial in the March 21 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, which charged the college administration with an admissions and recruitment policy “short of tokenism.”

Honor Court Plans Stress On Increased Awareness

First of Two Articles

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Honor Court Chairman Bill Williams has some new ideas. Ideas for intangible things, like an increased awareness of the honor system among students and faculty, for instance. And practical ideas, like publishing a booklet about the honor system, and sending out questionnaires. Williams, whom the court elected as chairman recently, stresses the positive aspects of the honor system. “It’s not a police system,” he said. “It would not be successful as a completely negative system.”

The Honor Court is aiming its orientation program at faculty members and upperclassmen, but particularly at incoming freshmen. Tom Baker, vice chairman of the court, is planning the publication of a booklet which will explain the honor system here and will clarify certain points. Baker said that the booklet will stress a spirit of honor, and will also include the philosophy and history of the system, will define court procedures and will list court members. He explained that there are some student practices, “diving reviews, for instance,” which clearly violate the spirit of honor without directly violating the honor system. Williams and Baker agreed that it is impossible to enforce a spirit of honor—it must be created among students themselves.

The Honor Court is in the process of conducting its annual evaluation of the honor system. Each student and faculty member is being asked to fill out a questionnaire. Students are being asked for their impressions on the effectiveness of the honor system and for any recommendations they might have. THE DAVIDSONIAN had planned to run the results of its own student poll on the honor system this week but has postponed that report until next week, due to the Honor Court questionnaire. Faculty members are being asked for their evaluations of the system. Professors who teach laboratory courses are being asked to define the requirements for honor in their students’ lab work. He reiterated his emphasis on faculty and student orientation in relation to the honor system and on increased communication between the Honor Court and faculty and students. For instance, some professors seem to be ignorant of the faculty rule, passed in 1961 at the request of the court, that prohibits a professor from giving the same test to non-consecutive course sections (ROTC was excepted from this rule). Williams said that problems like this must be worked out—by orientation of new faculty members and students and by an increased awareness of the honor system for present faculty members and students. “Ignorance of the system would really be a waste,” Williams said.

Next week: How effectively is the honor system working?