Page Six November 8, 1968

‘Billy Budd’ Critic

By Bob Cunningham

"Billy Budd," one of the strongest plays to be presented at Davidson in years, opened Wednesday night to a small but, as it turned out, very impressed audience. A "morality play," "Billy Budd" was adapted for stage by Louis Coxe and Robert Chapman and expertly re-adapted to the Davidson stage by Rupert Barber, director. Joe Gardner, who plays Billy, also designed the very realistic set, and Peter Lutken as chief carpenter did a good job in its construction.

The play's few weaknesses are completely overshadowed by several strong characterizations, the most impressive of which is that of Captain Vere, played by Tim Gailey. Gailey's fine acting is the force which produces the emotional impact of the play and conveys as well Melville’s moral. Gardner has the difficult task of portraying Virtue in its innocent but fatal struggle against Evil, embodied in Claggart and played by Bill Green. Both players carry their parts admirably and provide a strong accentuation to Gailey, who as captain mediates between the two. In addition, there is very excellent characterization by Tom Way, Emerson Bell, Jack Hartman, Lutken, and others.

The play is realistic down to its Irish and Cockney accents and its fist fights. Its characterizations are believable and moreover raise, especially in the case of Captain Vere and Billy, an emotional reaction on the part of the audience not elicited by the story itself. Don't miss it—tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall.

Kenan (Continued From Page 1)

concern for and interest in students,” he said. William R. Kenan Jr., born in 1872, attended UNC-CH and after graduation continued research in the university's chemistry department. Along with Professor Francis P. Venable, he discovered and identified calcium carbide, determined its formula, and reported that acetylene gas could be derived from it. He continued work as a chemical and mechanical engineer, and in the early 1900s joined the Henry M. Flagler firm, which was developing and expanding an empire of railroads, hotels, and utilities in Florida. From 1924 until his death in 1965, he was president and part owner of the Flagler System companies and had several other financial interests. In his will, he said, “I have always believed firmly that a good education is the most cherished gift an individual can receive and it is my sincere hope that the provisions of this Article will result in a substantial benefit to mankind." To support and perpetuate his wishes, he provided for the charitable trust.

UNION, STUDENTS COMPROMISE Peace Group, Navy Vie

Students conducted an orderly protest of Navy recruiters here yesterday, but did not confront them directly. “We don't see any point in a confrontation,” said John Thacker, one of the protestors. “Our position is that a person has to make a moral decision when he talks to a Navy recruiter and that we ought to have Vietnam and draft counseling alongside their recruiters so that the necessity for a moral decision will be pointed out." Navy Lt. Jerry Lawrence, one of the recruiters, said he didn’t see any point in a confrontation either. He said he didn't mind having the protest going on. The peace group had been evicted from the Union lobby last week after they set up a table near Marine recruiters, and yesterday they were permitted to set up their table in a room adjoining the Navy recruiters only after extensive negotiation with the Union Board and the faculty Committee on the College Union, Fraternities, and Clubs. The eviction last week and consequent negotiation apparently prompted a statement of college policy on dissent Tuesday from President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Protestor Marvin Sparrow called the statement

Wanted: Pictures Or Cash

By virtue of an agreement reached Tuesday evening, Davidson fraternity men will receive their composite photographs before the Thanksgiving holidays. In the Tuesday meeting, Davidson administration and fraternity representatives signed a formal agreement with Harrison Scott, of Northgate Studios in Durham, which stated that Scott would deliver the composites to Davidson by Tuesday, Nov. 26. Present at the meeting were Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Assistant Dean of Students James J. Terry, Interfraternity Council President Bobby Vagt, four IFC members, Scott, and a representative of Scott's office. Also included in the agreement was the stipulation that delivery would be made on individual photographs ordered by students from Scott, and that Scott would absorb the cost of mailing the composites to last year’s senior fraternity members who graduated. Scott was contracted verbally last October by senior Rick Harrell to take the composite pictures. Harrell said that he and Scott agreed on a May 1 deadline for delivery. Harrell, now stationed in Texas with the U.S. Army, was unable to obtain the composites, however, and turned the matter over to Vagt and Terry.

Jackson’s Show Provides Zebras, Shock, Sex, Bars

A REACTION By PAUL ROWLAND Staff Writer

“Come see the zebras, Mommy!” called the child, beckoning his mother to view his delightful discovery. The child found zebras, but the mommy must have seen other things in the 94 paintings, drawings, and etchings by alumnus W. Herbert Jackson, '67, now on display through Nov. 26 in Cunningham Fine Arts building.

Shock is the reward for the first casual glance at Jackson’s work. Shock is also the reward for closer studies. The first shock is the dizzying effect of the black and white bars slashing across Jackson's canvas in parallel polymer. A long stare will spin one’s head like brilliant sunlight after an all-night party. Closing the eyes is to no avail either, for the brain is branded with the afterburn design. Glancing at Jackson's drawings and etchings leads to two conclusions: the artist is clever and his main interest is sex.

Not being supplied with a chronology, we may only speculate on the development of Jackson's techniques as revealed in this exhibit. A multiple exposure is used in “Horses,” but its variation, a double exposure, makes “Dark Rider” and “Narcissism” more profound and “Cinderella” a more amusing pun. Jackson uses a cage to provide depth in the pastel “Study for Money Paintings” and in the pen and ink “Monkeys and Two For a Cage.” These works foreshadow the use of a similar device in a polymer on sailcloth called “Willmormus Rotamentrus.” The natural development of this technique seems to be the parallel bar device. Though reminiscent of the work of Josef Albers, Jackson's technique appears to be his innovation rather than something borrowed. Whatever the source, “Diamond,” “Butterfly” and “Profile” are his best usages of complex device to obtain the desired effect. “Falling” and “Wheel” have no dazzling bars, but make use of the multiple exposure technique in a manner not quite as obvious as in the drawings referred to above.

Sex was mentioned above, but I’m sure a detailed discussion is unnecessary. “Playboy” recently ran a “sex quota” questionnaire, but Jackson's art provides a more stimulating standard. For starters, count the pregnant women in “Profile” or the breasts in “Wheel.” Maybe you see more zebras than bodies, but my answers were higher than five and three respectively.

“Altogether too cute,” was my initial reaction to Jackson’s exhibit as I felt the same about his mural in the Union snack bar. Assistant Professor of Art Robert Williams told me this would be the best show of the year at Davidson and suggested I look again. Dr. Douglas Houchens, head of the art department, appraised Jackson as “probably the most creative student ever to enroll in studio courses at Davidson.” I looked again and decided they are probably both right. Despite my disdain for the overly cute quality of several works, the whole exhibit is characterized by a touch of ingenuity and perhaps even a spark of genius. Be sure you go see the zebras.‘‘an effort to intimidate us." “Sometimes we have protesters and sometimes we don't," Lawrence said. “Occasionally other students take care of the protesters. For instance, sometimes we get verbal agitation, but we can't say anything except for information. But then another group of students usually will come in and stand up for us.”

Dissent Stand

The following is the text of President Spencer’s statement of Nov. 6 on dissent:

“I have been asked to state my position on the matter of dissent.

“Because the academic community by its very nature depends on the principle that reason rather than force is the means to decision and change, it is essential that such a community protect to the utmost the right of dissent. That is why I am thoroughly committed to the protection of the right of every member of this college to express disagreement in any lawful, reasonable manner.

“By the same token, the greatest threats to the right of dissent come from the repudiation of reason in favor of force, from the invasion of the rights and freedom of those with whom we disagree, and from the disruption of the constitutional process through which dissent can be expressed. Because such actions undermine the very foundation on which the community is based, their seriousness can hardly be overestimated.

“For this reason, membership in the college community must be limited to those who respect the rights of all and are willing to live and work within a constitutionally ordered framework. In my opinion, therefore, immediate suspension from the college would be fully warranted in the case of any student who by overt action, intimidation, or in any other way infringes the rights and freedom of others; who disrupts in any way the normal processes or activities of any part of the college; or willfully refuses to obey a lawful order of constituted college authority.”

Stir Over Voluntary ROTC Part Of Long Controversy

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

The student Senate's call for voluntary ROTC Tuesday night is only the latest in a series of attacks that have dogged Davidson's compulsory ROTC program in recent years. But in spite of sporadic demonstrations and occasional voices of opposition, the compulsory program has continued to thrive. A significant percentage of upperclassmen have elected to enter the advanced program over the last few years, and last spring the Board of Trustees rejected a recommendation for a voluntary program from the Blue Sky Committee that was seconded by the faculty.

Food Service Critique Suggests Improvements

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

After years of complaints, both public and private, about its various facets, a report has finally been taken on Davidson's food service. A committee, chaired by Union Board members Clay Edwards and including Tom Allison, Bill Smythe (both members of the board), John Reisner and Sterling Abernathy, has prepared a 10-page report with the stated purpose “... to outline what the students want as an ideal (food service) while at the same time gathering the main complaints and suggestions that they have concerning the present set-up."

The report goes on to admit that its suggestions are based solely on “ideals,” no economic or administrative research having been done. The committee's suggestions deal individually with the three major facets of Davidson's food service:

(1) The snack bar — The committee criticizes this year's change to machines. It recommends the establishment of a new snack bar, completely separate from the cafeteria serving line. This facility would operate from just after breakfast until the Union's closing time and would have a greatly expanded menu.

(2) Catering service — This section deals with the food service's handling of special affairs (banquets, early breakfasts on weekends, etc.). The report recommends the creation of a private dining facility, open to the public at all times. It also recommends increased incidental food service and ingenuity in the catering area.

(3) The cafeteria — While praising the quality of food, efficiency of service, and general administration of the cafeteria, the report criticizes, among other things, its lack of menu variety, inequity of meal prices, lack of atmosphere, and lack of channels for complaint. Its recommendations include: regular evaluation of meal service by someone representing the college, an increase in “special dinners” (Halloween Night, “Oriental Night,” etc.), increased variety of food, and fountain soft drinks at each meal.

Union Board President Ed Embree said that the report was discussed and adopted by the full board on Oct. 28. At that time, copies of the recommendations for action were sent to the three members of the administration who are responsible for food service: Union Director C. Shaw Smith, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, and Business Manager Robert Currie. No further action has been taken, said Embree, due to the inability of the administration members to meet and discuss the matter. Embree said that there will be a continuing student follow-up on the report in an effort to get action.

The trustees’ action was prompted in part by the conviction that making ROTC voluntary would eventually lead to the program's demise, owing to a lack of participants, and a DAVIDSONIAN poll of some 30 freshmen last week indicated that this would probably be the case. All 30 freshmen said they were in favor of a voluntary program, but only five said they would have taken ROTC under those circumstances.

A minor compromise adopted by the trustees when they squelched the Blue Sky recommendation last spring allows incoming freshmen the option of obtaining a letter from their parents to excuse them from taking ROTC, and this year seven freshmen used that option. The trustees also decided to give the two courses in basic ROTC only half credit. Students still receive full credit from the two advanced courses.

The opportunity offered freshmen to opt out of the program is not really new. Trustee President Walter L. Lingle Jr. said last May that the policy had also been used by the college some years ago. He said he did not know why it had been abandoned. The policy, which is actually not permitted in the national basic ROTC contract, was implemented largely through the efforts of Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science.

“Col. Outlaw was most helpful in getting the necessary amendment," said Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. “I am sure that without his help, we would not have been able to do this this year.” The government in effect waived a clause which states that changes in the contract can be made only with one academic year's notice.

A number of students this fall have charged that incoming freshmen were not properly informed of their opportunity to opt out of ROTC. They were informed through two statements in the Wildcat Handbook, one arguing against the program and one for it, and through two letters, one from the ROTC Department itself and one from the office of the dean of students. The statement in the letter from the dean read: “If a student's parents feel strongly that their son should not take military training at Davidson College they may make a specific statement to this effect and request that the student be excused by the dean of the faculty.” The letter must be signed by the student and his parents. It does not require a classification as a conscientious objector, nor does it require the parents to outline their reasons for their objections.

The new policy has led to some complaints from sophomores that they did not have this option this year. However, the basic contract, which does not allow this option, is still in effect for upperclassmen. Upperclassmen can only be excused from ROTC by physical disqualification, by registering as a conscientious objector, or by virtue of previous military service.