Che Bavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson N.C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief
MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1968

An Insurance Policy

Ralph Ellison’s pitiful performance in chapel last week left many students and faculty members wondering how the distinguished Reynolds Lectureship program could sponsor such a poor speaker. It was obvious Ellison hadn’t bothered to prepare, and his “lecture” turned into a rambling hodge-podge of “er’s” and “uh’s” that at least a dozen professors acquainted with his topic could have matched, without charge.

Unprepared lectures like Ralph Ellison’s hurt the Reynolds program, a program that has brought a number of outstanding men to Davidson since it was launched in 1959, and steps should be taken to ensure that it doesn't happen again. One effective insurance policy has been suggested by a member of the English Department. If the Reynolds Foundation itself were to publish the lectures, the professor says, no man with any kind of pride and concern for professional reputation would dare step to the podium without having done his homework.

Publication of the lectures (which, incidentally, is a policy followed by some other schools) would have other benefits as well. It would get the name of the college around more, and publicize the program and lecturer, too. If we don’t try this, of course, then we run the risk of another barrage of “er’s” and “uh’s” from the next Reynolds Lecturer.

Self-Scheduling Exams

The days of pallid faces and sunken, bloodshot eyeballs during exam period may have passed. A subversive proposal to undermine the moral fiber of Davidson will be submitted next week to the Committee on Educational Planning. The proposal would allow students to set up their own exam schedules.

The adoption of this proposal could have grave consequences. The exquisite torture of the exam process is at the heart of the process by which Davidson builds men. To face organic and humanities in one day with Malcolm Lester on deck for the next morning takes courage, it takes the will to win, it takes grit.

Oh, sure the present system may not be a fair test of a student’s knowledge. It may cause a few minor nervous breakdowns. But Davidson’s academic “boot camp” must have virtues. One good argument against the self-scheduled exams is the opportunity for cheating. Maybe Davidson students are just not mature enough for this change. Just because Mary Baldwin can do it doesn’t mean we can.

Another horrifying aspect of the proposal is that it may even be readied in time to replace the ordeal scheduled for the end of this term. Things don’t usually move that fast here, but new-fangled ways of doing things may even deny us one last inquisition. Oh, please don’t throw us in that briar patch.

Some Honesty On ‘Dixie’

The flap over whether or not to play “Dixie” is so silly we hate to dignify it by dragging it into print, but there are a couple of points that need to be made nonetheless.

In the first place, to all but a very few “Dixie” is just a rousing fight song to be played at athletic events. If it has always had special appeal to Southern people, it is because of its lively beat and the pride in this section it evokes. But that is all it is. To say that “Dixie” connotes the Old South and slavery and Ku Kluxers is utterly ridiculous. And to believe it is even more ridiculous.

Yet there are apparently a few people here in each category, according to the athletic coaches who requested that the Pep Band quit playing the song. Those very few overzealous and super-sensitive people would do well to listen to some wise words from Honest Abe Lincoln. No man more than he wanted harmony between North and South and black and white, but on the day after Appomattox, there he was on the White House steps, asking some band to play “Dixie.”

“I have always thought ‘Dixie’ one of the best tunes I ever heard,” old Abe told a happy Northern crowd. “I had heard that our adversaries over the way had attempted to appropriate it. I insisted yesterday that we had fairly captured it. I presented the question to the Attorney General and he gave his opinion that it is our lawful prize. I ask the band to give us a good turn upon it.”

The next thing you know somebody will be asking for a ban on “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”

About That Endorsement

From The Chapel Hill Weekly

A Townsman who questions our sanity from time to time marched in last week and without so much as a howdy-do demanded to know “What good is a newspaper editorial endorsement of a political candidate?”

We thought long and hard and finally decided to be honest. “No good at all.”

“Well, why do you do it?”

“Sometimes it helps to plug a hole.”

“Why don't you just throw in another cartoon?”

“That would be cheating.”

“Cheating who?”

“The readers, of course.”

“I think I'd like to be cheated for a while.”

“Actually, sometimes we try to help a candidate by not endorsing him. Like Bobby Morgan. His politics are rotten a lot of the time and he’s one of that East Carolina College crowd. But he’s a fine fellow personally, fair and honest, and we want to see him elected Attorney General. So we were going to write him a letter and ask him whether he’d rather have The Weekly come out for him or against him.”

“What did he say?”

“We never got around to writing the letter.”

“Well, I wish you’d go ahead and endorse Nixon.”

“You for Nixon?”

“No, I’m for Humphrey myself.”

It Takes Two, Baby

If you’re the kind to keep tabs on such things, add another to that growing list of schools thinking coed. This time it’s Sweet Briar, an all girls’ school in Virginia with a respectable academic standing and a reputation for being a good place to get a date.

A couple of weeks ago a Founder’s Day speaker there mentioned the advantages of coeducation, warning that “institutions that do not go coed in the near future will soon lose competition for students, faculty and financial support.” And despite the fact that Sweet Briar officialdom has been pooh-poohing the idea ever since, coed talk is definitely popular among the students there these days.

Student action is being planned, complete with committees and discussions. The Sweet Briar News, obviously an enlightened, progressive campus newspaper, has endorsed the idea of admitting male students. Speculation and activity is rife.

The obvious question is, where would Sweet Briar get its boys? And, without meaning to be overly forward, may we suggest . . . Davidson?

The idea is not as silly as it sounds, for if Davidson is ever to go coed—and the chances are now better, though still rather remote, than they’ve ever been—we will have a similar problem—i.e., where to get the girls.

President Spencer had just that problem in mind back during Orientation when he and a group of student leaders were discussing Davidson and the feasibility of coeducation here. Obviously, not just any girls will do—they'll have to be fairly intelligent (and pretty, please)—and the group decided that probably the easiest way of effecting coeducation here would be to link up with an already established girls’ school. Such a girls’ school, Dr. Spencer suggested (facetiously, unfortunately), might be Mary Baldwin. “Why not move Mary Baldwin down here?” he asked, laughing.

Why not? Sounds good to us. And maybe if Mary Baldwin plays hard to get, Sweet Briar will be more cooperative.

California Professor Proclaims Doctrine Of Student Negritude

ED. NOTE: The following reprint from Time Out, a publication of the National Students Association, has created a controversy on many college campuses. It is reprinted here for students to make their own evaluation of this judgment of them.

By GERALD FARBER

Students are niggers. When you get that straight, our schools begin to make sense. It's more important, though, to understand why they're niggers. If we follow that question seriously enough, it will lead us past the zone of academic rhetoric, where dedicated teachers pass their knowledge on to a new generation, and into the nitty-gritty of human needs and hang-ups.

At Cal State LA, where I teach, the students have separate and unequal dining facilities. If I take them into the faculty dining room, my colleagues get uncomfortable, as though there were a bad smell. At Cal State, also, there is an unwritten law barring student-faculty love-making. Fortunately, this anti-miscegenation law, like its Southern counterpart, is not 100 percent effective.

The students are, it is true, allowed to have a toy government of their own. It is a government run for the most part by Uncle Toms and concerned principally with trivia. The faculty and administrators decide what courses will be offered; the students get to choose their own Homecoming Queen.

A student at Cal State is expected to know his place. The faculty tell him what courses to take (in my department, English, even electives have to be approved by a faculty member); they tell him what to read, what to write, and frequently, where to set the margins on his typewriter. When a teacher says “jump,” students jump. I know of one professor who refused to take up class time for exams and required students to show up for tests at 6:30 in the morning. And they did, by God!

Even more discouraging than this Auschwitz approach to education is the fact that the students take it. They haven't gone through 12 years of public school for nothing. They've learned one thing and perhaps only one thing during those 12 years. They've forgotten their algebra. They're hopelessly vague about chemistry and physics. They've grown to fear and resent literature. They write like they've been lobotomized.

Students don’t ask that orders make sense. They give up expecting things to make sense long before they leave elementary school. Things are true because the teachers say they’re true. And that's just fine becauseyou don't care anyway. Miss Wiedemeyer tells you a noun is a person, place, or thing. So let it be. You don't give a damn; she doesn't give a damn. The important thing is to please her. Back in kindergarten, you found out that teachers only love children who stand in nice straight lines. And that’s where it’s been ever since. What school amounts to, then, for white and black kids alike, is a 12-year course in how to be slaves. What else could explain who I see in a freshman class? They've got that slave mentality: obliging and ingratiating on the surface but hostile and resistant underneath.

As do black slaves, students vary in their awareness of what's going on. Some recognize their own put-on for what it is and even let their rebellion break through to the surface now and then. Others—including most of the “good students”—have been more deeply brainwashed. They swallow the bull with greedy mouths. They're pathetically eager to be pushed around. College entrance requirements tend to favor the Toms and screen out the rebels. Not entirely, of course. Some students at Cal State LA are expert con artists who know perfectly well what’s happening. They want the degree or the 2-S and spend their years on the old plantation alternately laughing and cursing as they play the game. If their egos are strong enough, they cheat a lot. And, of course, even the Toms are angry down deep somewhere. But it comes out in passive rather than active aggression. They're unexplainably thick-witted and subject to frequent spells of laziness. They misread simple questions. They spend their nights mechanically outlining history chapters while meticulously failing to comprehend a word of what's in front of them.

The saddest cases among both black slaves and student slaves are the ones who have so thoroughly introjected their master's values that their anger is all turned inward. At Cal State, these are the kids for whom every low grade is torture, who stammer and shake when they speak to a professor, who go through an emotional crisis every time they’re called upon during class. You can recognize them easily at finals time. Their faces are festooned with fresh pimples; their bowels boil audibly across the room. If there really is a Last Judgment, the parents and teachers who create these wrecks are going to burn in hell.

YMCA’s Bell Thanks Helpers

To The Editor:

The purpose of this letter is to thank the Davidson community—students, faculty, and administration—for their support in the recent YMCA Fund Drive. The drive was a success, thanks to the many Great Guys at Davidson. A list of all those who helped with collections and publicity would be too long to attempt. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank them publicly for doing such a first-rate job. Working with these men was my privilege, and the Fund Drive’s success is their achievement. Any student who failed to contribute, and wishes to do so, may drop his check by the “Y” office. Membership cards may also be picked up by those who want them. Again, let me thank and congratulate all those who did such a tremendous job in supporting the 1968 YMCA Fund Drive.

Emerson Bell, ‘70
Vice President, YMCA
Davidson College

1968: A Chaotic Year To Salvage A Dream

By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

The year 1968 has not been without its political earthquakes, and that chaotic year is not yet over: thus any prediction as to how the nationwide contest at the OK Corral will come out must be qualified with many “if's.” The analogy with a Western “shoot’em up” is not without validity, for as a part of the nation has made an about-face to the right and as another part has accelerated to the left, many political contests, especially House races, have taken on the character of the good guys versus the bad guys, with no certainty that the good guys will win and that the losers will let the winners take the spoils.

Polarization

The Wallace candidacy has merely intensified this polarization, generating hate in both left and right wings and making those who try to straddle the fence lean to one side. And will the Wallace voter in the South vote for Democrats or Republicans for the lesser offices? These contests may well be decided by the man who can out-Wallace Wallace. Hubert Humphrey is a most pathetic candidate. In early June Humphrey could have beaten Nixon, but the Battle of Chicago destroyed the grand coalition forged by FDR.

Division vs. Fantasy

Ironically, the Democratic Convention realistically demonstrated the deep divisions that are strangling America, while the Republican Convention was a sickeningly calm excursion into fantasyland. As for Richard Nixon, that simple savior of America’s destiny, the nagging question many people are asking is whether the new Nixon is really different from the old Nixon and whether an expensive campaign to re-make Nixon's image can re-make the man. Nixon, like Ike, offers calm, quiet, a slow-down; and it appears that society has been changing too fast for most Americans. But one must ask whether a slow-down will result in time’s running out for democracy. It may mean that the left will become impatient and the right intolerant, and that Nixon will preside over catastrophe. This is what 1968 is all about, for our national goals, once clear four years ago, have now been redefined in terms of the chaos of Watts, of Selma, of Vietnam.

Rejected Dream

The result is that many have come to reject the American Dream, others have forgotten what that Dream really means, and the rest are desperately trying to salvage what they can from the rubble. The degree of success of the latter group will decide the nation's fate. I am reminded of what Robert Kennedy said in the California primary: “the choices that we will have to make in 1968 will be vital ones: for we must choose between love and hate, between peace and war, and perhaps whether we shall live or whether we shall die.” Robert Kennedy is dead; and the election of 1968 may well foretell of things to come.

She Followed Me Home. Can I Keep Her?

Whipping Post

By BOB REID
Associate Editor

Humphrey's The One

Unless the spectre of 1948 returns to haunt the likes of George Gallup, Richard M. Nixon will probably be elected President of the United States next week. Although voting for Humphrey might not be the best way to spend a Tuesday afternoon, I must agree with the rest of the DAVIDSONIAN’s editorial board that it certainly tops a vote for Nixon. One wonders why the Republican Party, with the wealth of talent that it certainly has, chose to reach back into its sterile past in search of a candidate. But it says we have a new Nixon, a statesman tempered by defeat, mellowed by time and advised not to fasten all three buttons on his suit coats. Here, they say, is a man uniquely equipped for the office he seeks. Eight years as a vice president, several months (after the Eisenhower heart attack) as the virtual president, experience in Congress, ad infinitum. Then, following his defeat by Kennedy, this man had the opportunity to view the office from afar gaining new insights and perspectives while sitting in his law office. This is not the old Nixon who was fond of phrases like “soft on communism” (Spiro who?), who tended to a reckless, sophomoric point of view and who twitched too much on television. He’s matured now, like a dark-haired elder statesman.

Of course one wonders how he managed to do such an admirable job as vice president without maturing. It seems that all those years in the House, Senate and the vice presidency would mature a man faster than a few years as a New York attorney. Maybe that says something for government service. Since, like all judicious candidates, Nixon has been vague on many issues during the campaign, one must read the arguments of his supporters to gain an insight into this man. In a sense it’s like the Quest of the Historical Jesus.

The most convenient set of arguments is the article in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN by Professor Jon Fuller. In hope of not offending a personable scholar, I would like to examine his dissertation. Certainly Humphrey would have problems ending the war. Who wouldn't? But to say that “his (Humphrey’s) close identification with its errors” would make him less flexible in negotiations is not necessarily true. In one of the rare reappearances of the old Nixon, the GOP candidate made it clear that by “honorable peace” he means “on America’s terms.” Mr. Fuller continues: “Nixon has a clear advantage: he can blame the unattractive aspects of the settlement on the previous administration. Humphrey would have no one to blame but himself.”

It may come as a shock to some that Humphrey is NOT the incumbent president. And no commentator has ever said or implied that Humphrey came close to dictating policy to Lyndon Johnson. Mr. Fuller then writes that after Vietnam is off our backs we can attack the problems here at home. The record of the old Nixon on domestic issues was unimaginative. We'll have to wait until the inauguration to see what the new Nixon really thinks.

Finally, he says that Nixon will bring fresh, imaginative faces to government to replace the tired old men who are “frustrated and exhausted by their labors and failures in the Johnson Administration.” Of course one of those men Nixon supposedly listens to is John Gardner, whose name is associated with the failure-ridden Department of Health, Education and Welfare. But fresh faces do not necessarily indicate fresh minds. In fact, journalists accompanying the Nixon campaign have pointed out that many of the young people in the Nixon organization are old-style conservatives at heart. Mr. Fuller’s article aside, Nixon’s philosophy of government and the presidency have been clouded by a welter of confusing and contradictory statements. Memories of the old Nixon do not inspire confidence. And if Spiro T. Agnew is an example of the new Nixon’s ability to find capable men, then one might wonder what sort of a government President Nixon would put together.

In my mind, Hubert Humphrey seems the only candidate worthy of a vote.