Page Four March 21, 1996

ROTC Students Need GRE's For Deferment

Graduate deferments are available to selected MS III applicants on a year-to-year basis, Colonel Frederick B. Outlaw said Wednesday. In
order to obtain the deferment, MS III's must take the Graduate Record Exam, offered to graduate school applicants in April,
May, and July. The test results and a recommendation from Outlaw are the criteria that the Department of Army will
use in determining which students will get deferments. Recipients will be notified in the fall.

Outlaw stressed that the test will be administered by Dr. William B. Wright's office, not by the ROTC department. The
deferment must be renewed each year. Continuation depends on the student’s standing in graduate courses. Beginning in 1970, the Army
will defer students for graduate school only in fields deemed useful for national defense. This category includes a broad range
of studies, however, encompassing English and the classics.

Dr. Hedgeman ‘Thrilled’ With Student Leadership

By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

Dr. Anna Hedgeman visited the campus for three days this week as the guest of the Richardson Fellows because she
was “thrilled that Southern students were facing the question of what kind of leadership is needed in the state.” The
eloquent, outspoken Negro, a candidate for the New York State Assembly and a member of former-Mayor Wagner’s administration, came to
help plan a 10-week program which the Fellows will undertake this spring for studying the state of North Carolina.

Applicants To View College Over Admissions Weekend

By PAUL SCHNEIDER
Staff Writer

The Admissions Office is planning a 2-day weekend April 3-4 to host a group of about 140 accepted applicants and
let them see the Davidson campus and meet with professors and students. This event will replace the scholarship weekends of
the past during which approximately 20 of the top applicants in each class would come to the campus and compete
for available scholarships.

“We have found the weekend to be a very worthwhile function, but it was limited to only the top applicants.
We select several scholarships on the basis of early admission, on the basis of application records,” explained John W. Reger,
assistant director of admissions. “We thought it would probably be more productive for the same amount of time to try
to present Davidson in the most effective way possible to the greatest number of applicants possible at one time,” said
Ed Edmonds White, director of admissions.

Reger said that “a lot of 220-280 (Continued From Page One) are concerned,” said White. The committee decided that it
would mail out acceptances on two rather than the normal three dates. The new dates are mid-March and April 1.
“We simply decided to try to go on an earlier schedule rather than waiting until April 1 for one final
mailing,” said White. White cited the early acceptance dates for other schools as a primary reason for the new dates.
No tabulation has yet been made of the applicants, but White indicated that the pattern will be similar to that
of the past year. However, there will still be an increase in the number of people outside of the South.

The schedule is not firmed up yet. “We are thinking of some Fridays similar to orientation weekends, dividing the applicants
into groups with three or four student hosts...” The structured part of the weekend will last from 2 p.m. Friday
until 2 p.m. Saturday. “Friday, it would be something similar to the activities fair that students have had for freshmen
in the past, but we may do a provocative format. However, we would like to expose them in some way
to the activities on campus,” said Reger. No assignments to fraternity houses will be made, but the admissions committee hopes
that the fraternities will be aware of the presence of the applicants on campus. The applicants will stay in the
Guest House, the basement of Richardson, and the other dormitories.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, March 22
2:00 p.m. Varsity Tennis: Tennis Courts Davidson vs. Bushveld University

Saturday, March 23
All Day Children’s Drama Workshop Hodson Hall
12:30 p.m. Spring Recess Begins
2:00 p.m. Examinations
2:00 p.m. Varsity Tennis Greenville, S.C. Davidson vs. Furman University

Monday, March 25
2:00 p.m. Varsity Tennis Davidson vs.

Tuesday, March 26
2:00 p.m. Varsity Tennis Jacksonville, Fla. Jacksonville University

Wednesday, March 27
2:00 p.m. Varsity Tennis Winter Park, Fla. Davidson vs. Rollins College

Thursday, March 28
10:00 a.m. Varsity Tennis Winter Park, Fla. Davidson vs. Cornell University

Thursday, March 28
Night Southern Section of the American Academy of Religion and Society of Biblical Literature

Tuesday, April 2
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium — Dr. Walter Gordy
4:20 p.m. Public Address Dana 101 — Dr. Walter Gordy

Hedgeman Proposes

“We Americans are not used to planning for the future. We’re new, very, very young, and in the process of
building a nation we haven’t planned,” she told a Tuesday afternoon meeting of the Fellows. “The Richardson Fellows are trying
to plan for the leadership needed in the future, and this has been my main title,” she continued later.

The 10-week study program is the first step in planning for the future, according to a statement the group issued.
It will facilitate a consideration of nine important topics, including history, industries, agriculture, education, and other areas in North Carolina.
Mrs. Hedgeman, who describes herself as a jack of all trades and a master of none, said they will attempt
to make the “state whole. The state needs to be known again,” she added.

Mrs. Hedgeman made no public appearances while on campus, but in her conferences with individual Richardson Fellows, she revealed an
immensely varied background that well qualified her to advise groups trying to discover and develop leadership. Civil rights is one
of her chief concerns. A native of Minnesota, she talked about teaching in Mississippi when she graduated from college. It
was there that she discovered the complete brutality of this country; “I thought it was all in the South, but
I discovered the brutality of the North, too, in the difference between an act and an attitude,” she said.

She called the United States “a white racist country,” explaining that most people here are “obsessed with being white —
obsessed with the concentration of power in white hands.” One of her goals, she told the group, was to help
free poor people from oppressive structures. She described such structures as the lack of respect for human beings which makes
it possible for us to talk about the poor—rather than talking about a concerned and balanced economy and the type
of community which allows poverty to continue.

She stated some steps which should be taken immediately to prevent violence in the cities this summer: providing jobs for
all youths for the summer, providing jobs for older men doing repair work and similar tasks in their communities, and
providing recreational facilities with supervisors for children. “It’s going to take a bit of money,” she warned. “Any nation which
has the creativity to send a man to the moon can jolly well find the creativity to clean up the
mess we've made in the cities,” she concluded.

PLANS FOR RHA

(Staff Photo by Weems)

“NEGRO IS SPELLED WITH A CAPITAL N” Dr. Hedgeman describes contemporary scene.

Wanted: Women In Dorms

By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

One of the first jobs that will confront the newly founded Residence Hall Association (RHA) will be opening the dorms,
according to Peter Hobbs, who is vice president of the Student Government Association.Giver raent Association is in charge of the
RHA, Hobbie said that he “hopes that by the first or the second week in May several dorms will be
open as an experiment.” He said that all of the dorms will not be open, and that he is not
sure which ones will be, as they “have not yet made any definite plans.” Hobbie explained that when “the new
student Senate meets in April, one of the first things it will do will be to choose members for the
Residence Hall Committee.” “There will be one representative from each dorm with the exception of Belk, which will have three.”

Secret Record Found

THE DAVIDSONIAN discovered a copy of the March 31 Student Council minutes, which have not been published. Following are excerpts:

“There being nobody at the meeting, the Student Council took a poll of its members this morning. The results were
as follows:

“Gail Searnsains, most sit caste; Joe Murphy, prettiest and best built; Ben Cannon, Wigment lady killer.

“Clay Ford, most likely to succeed; Fletcher Hartsell, sexiest; Sam Dartry, coolest.

“Steve Engstram, to be a swat, says James Jon Wit. Harris, funniest.”

‘Wilde Evening’ Termed Intellectually Humorous

A REVIEW BY DIRK GALBRAITH

It was a pleasure, Wednesday evening in Love Auditorium, to watch two people with a mastery of stage technique give
an interpretation of “A Wilde Evening with Shaw” for which they seemed to have a close feeling.

Committee To Seek Communication

BY ROB KREMNBIEL

Shall Walter Davidson College needs something where the “average” Davidsonian can meet the faculty? Ku said Tom Alksate, chairman of
the Union Board’s special project committee, proposed a student-faculty committee for improving student-faculty relations. The main purpose of the new
committee will be to explore ways of bringing students and faculty members together on an informal social basis outside of
the classroom. Also stated that “the faculty is out, but it still needs its fullest potential, especially in a small
college like Davidson. The close student-faculty relationships are the ideal.” Alksate commented that Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s “Blow Up” was good,
but it “has reached too high a level with its off-campus personalities.” Friends at the late campus and other social
functions, where a few students and a few faculty members can meet and just have a good time together, are
better at fostering lasting relationships, he said. Another purpose of the committee will be to evaluate the “Open House” program
and see how it has been.

FABULOUS DINING

International Cuisine

The committee will be organized shortly after the ancient beer bust.

Juniors Fill Managerial Positions

Mike Johnson and Ken Gallup were chosen business managers of THE DAVIDSONIAN and the “Quips and Cranks” by the Publications
Board last Friday. Also, Tom Baker, editor of the “Wildcat Handbook,” was elected president of the board and George Mouse,
editor of the “Miscellany,” secretary at the meeting. The financial authority for all campus publications, the Publications Board chooses the
business managers of each publication and determines how the editor is chosen.

OPEN KITCHEN

1316 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Returning to the Davidson campus, Richard Gray and Mayo Loisenu turned their phrases of Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw
to produce an intellectual sort of humor which draws not a laugh but an amused murmur from an audience capable
of handling it. It was a varied performance to say the least, yet maintaining enough continuity to make it more
than simply a collection of sketches. Though some of the more subtle quips were lost in the vastness of Love
Auditorium, nothing from the production fell flat; there were plenty of high points, and these generally were where Ms. Loisenu
and Mr. Gray were able to project themselves beyond the otherwise sturdy stream of conservatory. The costuming deserves a segment
in itself for its richness, and Ms. Loisenu for the use she made of her support in creating a various
mood. Her rendition of “The House of Judgment” and the reading of “The Ballad of Reading Gaol” by Mr. Gray
were especially good renditions of familiar pieces well suited to this sort of performance. “The Happy Prince” was a likewise
engaging reading, and one which seemed to penetrate the student’s usual cynicism toward fairy tales, at least for those who
attended the performance. The diversity in the production was a challenge well met by both Rich Gray and Mayo Loisenu
in moving from airy bantering to incisive wit to sentimental touches of the utmost delicacy.

Six Win Economics Honors

Six upperclassmen have qualified for membership in Omicron Delta Epsilon, the economics honor society. They are Ron Dougherty, Sam Matcher,
Lewis Lavine, Dick Mildner, Tom Rotier, and Jack Woodall. Three others, Ces Cochran, Siwy Hawe, and Tom Son; were initiated
last fall. Purposes of the society are to confer distinction for scholastic achievement in economics, to promote and stimulate interest
in economic analysis and policy, and to promote fellowship among students and faculty.

Modern, jet water operation.

BAS DAY PHONE 664-1452

FLYING INSTRUCTIONS

SEA PLANES or LAND PLANES

Start your flight training on beautiful Lake Norman. Equipped aircraft for both land and sea. Aviation ground school taught by
certified ground school instructor. ALSO AIRCRAFT RENTAL

Lake Norman Aviation

NORTH ROAD — MOORESVILLE, N.C.

NIGHT PHONES 662-5601 or 662-5222

Write Post Office Box 416, Mooresville, N.C. 78118

According to Hobbie, Hobbie added that elections will be held next year but that the representatives need to be appointed
now for the remainder of this year. He also stated that future plans include the monitoring of “general dorm conditions,
which would include anything from cracks in the ceiling to junk shakes.” Condemning the open dorms, Hobbie emphasized that “this
will be a two-way street.” In that the faculty agreed to open them, it would then be hoped that “the
students will take better care of the facilities.”

GET YOUR EVENING SNACK at the

NEW WILDCAT DEN!

We specialize in PIZZAS, DELICATESSEN FOOD, and FRIED CHICKEN, with our special APPLE CIDER to wash it down. All of
this in the restful atmosphere of the Den!! For those who are unable to come over, we will have dorm
delivery, as long as your order is in BEFORE 11:30 p.m. (There will be only one delivery per night, at
first). For dorm delivery, there will be a $ .25 service charge.

“SEE YOU AT THE DEN”

Look here, Wrangler-philes

Sure you love your Wrangler jeans, but it’s time you learned that Wrangler makes sportswear with the same knowing touch
that’s made you the Wrangler-phile you are today. Permanent press plaid shirt with soil release finish. Blue, bone, green $5.
Canvas weave jeans in blue, whiskey, loden, banana, $4.50. Snap-front, 30-inch jacket. Washable, water-repellent. Navy, red, green, $6.

Wrangler Sportswear

Remember the “W” is silent?

Belk’s, Mooresville

Round-Up, Highway 21, Statesville

Smithay’s Dept. Store, Statesville
