Page Six

CHANGES | Grad Students Face Draft With New Deferment Policy

By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

(Second of two articles)

Davidson's Admissions Office prepares a folder each year which would compare favorably with many fraternity rush booklets. One of the statistics highlighted is that between 70 and 75 per cent of each graduating class goes on to graduate school. Such a claim cannot be made after this year, however, thanks to a memorandum last month from Lt. General Lewis B. Hershey, director of the Selective Service, to the nation's draft boards. The memorandum states: “With respect to graduate school deferments, the National Security Council advises that it is not essential for the maintenance of the national health, safety and interest to provide student deferment for graduate study in fields other than medicine, dentistry and allied medical specialties...”

It has been predicted that next September expected graduate enrollment of 700,000 would be cut in half. Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, revealed that graduate deferment policy for cadets in the class of ‘68 have not been altered. But for members of the class of ‘69 and following, a new policy, based on a quota system, has been instituted. The Army will set a certain quota of students for each of several study areas. The deferment decision will be made on the basis of Graduate Record Examination scores and recommendation of the PMS. Outlaw said that a list of study areas is being prepared by the Army. It includes agriculture, forestry, the arts, classics, biological sciences, business, engineering, architecture, general law, medical sciences, languages, physical sciences, and social sciences.

Because of the Army's need for personnel with advanced preparation in many study areas, he contended it was to the Army’s benefit to continue granting graduate deferments. In case of full mobilization, he continued, these men can still be ready for duty in a matter of weeks. According to Outlaw, the quotas established by the Army under the new policy will not be announced—only the study areas open for deferment. Students wishing deferment in study areas not listed will be considered on an individual basis. Students must be cognizant of the fact, Outlaw said, that they “will be considered on the relative standing of the school.” He said Davidson's academic standard should be favorable to the cadet, and concluded that “Davidson students will still have a very fair opportunity to go to graduate school.”

Though the situation is not nearly so optimistic at the present for non-ROTC students who seek deferments, the full import of the National Security Council’s recommendations are not all apparent. There is still a great deal of uncertainty not only about effects on graduate schools and the entire educational community but also about the actual number of students who will be drafted. The new guidelines received immediate criticism from educators across the country. Dr. Nathan Pusey, president of Harvard University, stated that the new policy “would be a disaster” and would result in an “inordinate reduction” in the number of graduate students. Gustave O. Ailt, president of the Council of Graduate Schools, considered the new policy to have no relation to the national interest. “The national interest,” he contended, “requires that we continue to produce an adequate number of highly trained personnel to serve in government and industry.”

The Admissions Office here will need to revise its graduate school percentages, but indications at present seem to be that this will not necessarily be a drastic revision.

Play Different, ‘Worth Seeing’

A MUSICAL BILL OF GOODS

Karl Boxer Trio Entertains for Blow Up

‘Jazz Just Doesn’t Sell’... But Boxer Plugs His Music

“Jazz just doesn't sell,” jazz pianist Karl Boxer said, and then proceeded to sell his audience a musical bill of goods. The Karl Boxer Trio presented “The Aspects of Jazz: Talk and Performance” at the College Union for the second program in the Blow Up ‘68 series, sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

“Jazz is not as easy to find as people may think,” Boxer said, “mainly because there isn’t much demand for this type of music by the public. About the only place it can be found today is the concert circuit of colleges or through records.”

In his talk Boxer traced the history of jazz rhythms from their beginnings in the classical music of the late 18th Century to the folk blues and ballads of the early 19th century to Dixieland. “From New Orleans,” Boxer noted, “jazz traveled up the river to Chicago, where it blended with the swing of the Thirties to form the ‘Be Bop’ sound of the early Fifties.” Out of this beat came the modern point and counterpoint jazz of Dave Brubeck. This trend continued through the mid-Sixties, and from it the recent avant-garde jazz beat developed. “In my opinion,” Boxer said, “jazz is headed back toward the classics. Rhythms and tones are beginning to sound more and more classical. Jazz is about to make the full cycle back to its earliest beginnings.”

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
HEYWARD CARTER
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER
BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editor:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
KEATON FONVIELLE
JOE FRIEBELE
BOB McKELLAR
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
George Allen, John Pancake, Lewis Lavine, Glenn Mauney, Craig Culp, Mark Wingate, John Williams, Jim Cooley, Edwin Shoaf, David Cook, Rob Krehbiel, Paul Rowland, Dick Anderson, Paul Schneider, Bill Traxler, Ben Garrett, and Don Hoyt.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.the philosophy of student discipline and conduct—reading the approaches of other schools like Haverford and Emory. From this, we have formulated a kind of philosophy," Kaylor said. "Then we went through the student conduct regulations to see which ones we thought needed to be revised. We wanted to separate 'housekeeping' rules—governing student parking regulations and similar rules—from the more substantial matter of student conduct."

if she doesn’t give it to you... — get it yourself!

A REVIEW By DIRK GALBRAITH

Adapted from an autobiographical novel by the Irish author Sean O'Casey, "Pictures in the Hallway" offers the Davidson audience an unusual theatre experience and an interesting evening's entertainment tonight and tomorrow night in Hodson Hall. Set against the Irish struggle for a national identity in which O’Casey grew up in the early years of this century, the themes of moral ambiguity presented in this drama are not merely confined to that period of history but convey a sense of the beauty and ugliness of this world which would arrest the attention of any audience.

The genre of this production, the “reader's theatre,” is a type of presentation not lately seen on this campus. With period costuming and the bare essentials of the stage, the attempt here, in director Rupert Barber's words, is to create “fairly fully drawn characterizations even though there is no stage movement.” It is a challenging production, and one very well handled as, relying almost solely upon dialogue, the cast makes the rich natural beauty of O'Casey’s Irish dialect come alive upon the stage. While yet in dress rehearsal last night, the production had knit together well, and in Barber's words, “They're ready for an audience.” The cast, from left to right as you will see them onstage, includes Ellen Winkler, Joe Gardner, Constance Welsh, Bill Graham, Mark Robinson, and Ted Winter. All demonstrate a mastery of the brogue which is so central to an effective production, handling their lines with a consistency and vigor which sustains the tempo of the play very well.

The committee hopes to have its work finished by the May meeting of the College Board of Trustees so that they can act on it if they choose to do so, according to Carroll. Along with Kaylor and Carroll, committee members are Dr. A. J. McKelway, assistant professor of Bible and religion; the Rev. Will Terry, member at large from the college community; and students Dave Clemmons, Tom Clayton, Woody Faulk, Clay Ford, and Joe Murphy.

As an alternate fragrance, try Jade East CORAL or Jade East GOLDEN LIME
Rush Wilson, Ltd.

Union Trustees Appointed

Trustees for the Union Activities Fund have been chosen, according to Ed Embree, president of the College Union. James Lee will be the executive secretary of the union fund board of trustees. The other members of the board will be Bobby Vagt, Interfraternity Council representative; Dick Lindsey, YMCA; and Bill Smyth, student body at large. The Student Council elected Joe Kilpatrick to the board last week.

Students Provide Draft Counseling

A counseling service to advise students about the draft is now being conducted by four Davidson students and two professors. Seniors B. A. Aiken and Ken Tarleton, junior John Pancake, sophomore Cary Tucker, and Dr. Raymond Martin, assistant professor of philosophy, began their service two weeks ago. Dr. E. F. Patterson has been draft counseling since September. The private service is “not just for conscientious objectors—it’s open to anyone,” Tarleton said. The counselors plan to help registrants know their complete options and to help them meet deadlines and restrictions imposed by the Selective Service Systems, according to Tarleton. David Maynard, Youth Services Director of the American Friends Service Committee's office in High Point, instructed the counselors two weeks ago. They have already assisted several students, Pancake said, and hope to reach others soon.

One can see no serious weakness of any kind with the Davidson Drama Department’s treatment of O'Casey and his Irish folk: it is a successful presentation of a different sort of theatre and well worth seeing.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

START AT $6500 PLUS WHILE TRAINING TO BE A MANAGER!

America’s fastest growing, fast service restaurant chain has a challenging opportunity for the young (21-30), aggressive man who is willing to apply himself and is capable of producing results. You must have at least 1 year of college. Quick promotions are assured and you will have the chance to rise from trainee to higher management levels. You will learn in classroom sessions and practical on-the-job training the successful methods of operation developed and now practiced in our 700 units coast-to-coast. Our company benefits are among the best in the industry including profit sharing and retirement programs, insurance plans, and paid vacations. If you have the above qualifications and the desire to be associated with one of the exciting growth companies in the food industry call collect if necessary: 377-1593 (AREA CODE 704) WED., MARCH 13 — 12 NOON TO 9 P.M. ASK FOR MIKE ANDREW. If unable to call for appointment send resume including salary requirements in confidence to: BURGER CHEF SYSTEMS, INC. 1348 W. 16th St. Indianapolis, Indiana 46202 Attn: Mr. Mike Andrew

FOR THE SPRING HOLIDAY TRIPS SOUTH, TRY OUR FINE SELECTION OF SWIM SUITS, BERMUDAS, AND SHORT SLEEVE KNIT SHIRTS.
Davidson, N. C.

Once a Wrangler-phile, always a Wrangler-phile. All it takes is one pair of Wrangler® Jeans and you're a Wrangler-phile for life. The fit. The feel. The lean and easy look. Only Wrangler jeans have it. And Wrangler® sportswear has the same thing. Because it's made the same great way. Here, a fine example of Wrangler-ism in an ivy button down shirt and gold glen plaid slacks. Both are permanent press with release finish. Slacks, $8. Shirt, $5.

Mr. Wrangler® Sportswear (remember the “W” is silent!)
BELK’S DEPT. STORE — Mooresville
ROUND-UP, Highway 21, Statesville
SMITHEY’S DEPT. STORE, Statesville