Page Four

Puppet Group Slated

The Children's Drama Workshop of Davidson and Puppet Arts of Woodstock, N.Y., will present “The Story of Dick Whittington,” a short puppet show, tomorrow in Hodson Hall at 10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. The puppeteer will use rod puppets, Mrs. Constance Welsh, workshop director, said. This is a new type of puppet which is controlled from beneath the stage.

This is the first venture of sponsoring a professional company for the Board of Directors of The Children’s Drama Workshop, which “is trying to start an artist series for children in Davidson,” according to Mrs. Welsh, wife of Wilmer Welsh, associate professor of music. Mrs. Welsh described The Children’s Drama Workshop as a non-profit organization which is supported by minimal tuition and donations. She said that the theater was used as “a means to education as an end, rather than an end in itself.”

The workshop plans to stage “The House at Pooh Corner” on March 23 and 24, which will be prepared by workshop members under the direction of Mrs. Welsh. Admission for the performance will be 75 cents for children and students and $1 for adults.

February 23, 1968

The Davidsonian

DICK WHITTINGTON

Star of fast-paced puppet show.

PRAM Now Planning Next Summer Exchange

By KERN PARKER
Associate Editor

The Project of the Americas (PRAM) is now accepting applications for participation in its Summer Exchange Program with four South American countries, PRAM National Director Tom Peddicord announced this week.

Under the exchange program, approximately 25 American students will visit Ecuador, Colombia, and Bolivia from June 16 through Aug. 18 in an effort to foster better understanding between the Americas. Participants need not be PRAM members. The only requirements are that the student be actively working toward a degree, that he be interested in the improvement of inter-American relations, and that he should be able to speak and understand Spanish and should have a good grasp of the written language.

PRAM will pay each student’s expenses for food, housing, and transportation within South America, making use of funds given by private foundations, corporations, and individuals. Participating students will be required to engage in all organized activities during summer, including interviews of Latin American leaders, visits to important Latin American institutions, and public speaking before school groups.

PRAM Trustee Elected OAS Secretary General

An international trustee of the Project of the Americas, Galo Plaza Lasso of Ecuador, was recently elected Secretary General of the Organization of American States. Lasso, a U.N. diplomat and past president of Ecuador, has been interested in PRAM since its inception, according to PRAM National Director Tom Peddicord. He has been particularly helpful, Peddicord said, in securing financial support for PRAM.

In addition, each student must research and write a paper on some aspect of Latin American life. The papers will be published in PRAM’s national journal. A committee of Davidson faculty and students will select the program participants. Qualified students not selected by the committee may participate in the program if they pay their own expenses, estimated at $450. Applications and additional information may be obtained at the PRAM office. The deadline for applications is March 8.

Peddicord stressed that the program was not a “vacation trip,” but, rather, “a unique opportunity to experience a different culture and to confront personally the problems of a troubled and important area of the world.”

Debaters Enter Dartmouth Meet

By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

The Davidson varsity debate team gained experience with one win out of eight rounds at an invitational debate tournament at Dartmouth College last weekend. Gray Mason and Gary Cash represented Davidson at the Thirteenth Annual Dartmouth Invitational Debate Tournament, which is one of the most respected in the nation. Their one win out of eight rounds was not impressive, but they and debate director Ray McMillin said they were out to gain experience and had no real hope for a major victory. The one win, however, was not overly discouraging. The last Davidson team to go two years ago won no rounds.

McMillin attributed the improvement to the fact that his debaters were better prepared as the result of a change in debating policy that actually occurred last fall. When it was established three years ago, the educational aspects of debate were stressed by the program. Now the emphasis is changing to winning tournaments. McMillin cites several reasons for the change. First, the tournaments were becoming more difficult. In addition, the debate team hopes to gain prestige by winning and thereby increase its financial backing both to improve the program and to attract new students into it. He emphasized, however, that the program was not threatened with extinction from financial pressure because the debaters were not winning. Money for the program is provided in the regular college budget.

In spite of the lack of financial attraction in debating for prospective students, McMillin hopes he can produce an effective program by using new methods.

The Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

QUIETISSUES HANDLED

Committee Plods Along
By EDWARD HAY
Staff Writer

The Faculty Student Life Committee, in dealing with issues that are not "showy," has received undue criticism for accomplishing little, according to Richard C. Burts, dean of students. “The work of the committee," said Burts, “has been of such a basic nature that they haven't received much publicity. Actually, the group has been very busy." The group is limited, Burts explained, by its largeness. The members are “busy people” and it is sometimes difficult for them to meet.

Earlier in the year, the committee met with the committee drafting the Residence Hall Association (RHA) Constitution. The group at that time noted conflicts with the proposed Student Government Constitution, and the matter was set aside. Since then, the RHA Constitution has been returned to the committee and is now ready for approval, according to Burts. Also brought before the committee was the proposed SGA Constitution, which they helped to “tighten up.” Several additions and suggestions were made at this time.

The committee is now working in a coordinated effort with the Student Council to review the faculty regulations. According to Burts, the entire set of regulations has been set aside for a new start. A proposed school drug policy has been shelved in favor of considering it in connection with the broader regulations of the school, rather than give it specific attention. Student reaction to the new SGA Constitution will help guide the committee in the future, Burts said. The group will be able to better understand the intentions and desires of the students.

The committee consists of faculty members R. D. Kaylor, N. M. Johnson, T. A. Williams, A. A. Wolf, W. G. Workman, J. B. Stroud, and Burts, and students Randy Phillips, Bill Andrews, and Tom Earnhardt. The success of the student-faculty work together is encouraging, said Burts, expressing the hope that soon the student committees would allow faculty as members.

Manor Remains Unused

Since the beginning of this semester and the disbanding of the Lingle Manor group, the house has remained unused. The group itself decided that its “fraternity substitute” format was a failure, and since then several organizations on campus have been trying to obtain permission to use the building.

Robert A. Currie, college treasurer and business manager, said that its use would be determined primarily by the needs of the college. He said he expects that the needs will become evident when the budget is presented in April. Faculty and administration members may need more office space and rooms for the audio-visual equipment, he explained.

The Student Life Committee has filed a recommendation to the treasurer's office that the building be turned over to the College Union, according to Committee Chairman W. G. Workman. The Union would follow the suggestions of the Freshman Council that the building be used as a freshman social and study area. Committee members decided to recommend that the use of the building be given to the Union because it has a more permanent character than the Freshman Council, the other serious contender. The committee submitted its recommendation 12 days ago, and is waiting for a reply.

Concert Groups Examined

The Platters, Josh White Sr., and Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels highlighted the Block Booking Conference in Charlotte on Feb. 14-17. Charlie Cameron, president of the Social Council, and Ed Embree, president of the College Union, led the delegation from Davidson to investigate possible acts for future concerts. The group from Davidson listened to over 30 groups perform during three nights. Cameron said that no groups were contracted for next year, but that the conference “was a good chance to meet the agents we will be working with next year.” Cameron was disappointed in the conference, however, because “we had money commitments and date commitments, but few other colleges there did, hurting our ability to bargain with the groups.”

Stop The World’ Set Tomorrow

Jackie Warner will appear in Davidson tomorrow in the musical: ‘Stop the World, I Want to Get Off.’ The play will be staged at 3 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The musical originally played on Broadway for several seasons and starred Anthony Newley. The performance includes such songs as ‘What Kind of Fool Am I,” “Gonna Build a Mountain” and “Once in a Lifetime.”

The reason for the late announcement of the play is that the contract was not completed until Monday, according to C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, which is presenting the play. Tickets cost $2 for students and faculty members and $2.50 for the public. Because of the late notice, the Union is getting the play at a reduced price, although, according to Smith, it “does cost” and this is the reason for the $2 admission charge. The book, music, and lyrics were written by Leslie Bricusse and Anthony Newley. The Davidson production will be presented by On The Aisle, Inc.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6561

If you don’t agree that business destroys individuality, maybe it’s because you're an individual.

There’s certain campus talk that claims individuality is dead in the business world. That big business is a big brother destroying initiative. But freedom of thought and action, when backed with reason and conviction’s courage, will keep and nurture individuality whatever the scene: in the arts, the sciences, and in business. Scoffers to the contrary, the red corpuscles of individuality pay off. No mistake.

Encouraging individuality rather than suppressing it is policy in a business like Western Electric—where we make and provide things Bell telephone companies need. Because communications are changing fast, these needs are great and diverse. Being involved with a system that helps keep people in touch, lets doctors send cardiograms across the country for quick analysis, helps transmit news instantly, is demanding. Demanding of individuals.

If your ambition is strong and your abilities commensurate, you'll never be truly happy with the status quo. You'll seek ways to change it and—wonderful feeling!—some of them will work. Could be at Western Electric.

Western Electric
MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM