Page Six March 15, 1968 The Davidsonian

Lame Duck Council Elects Court To Serve 2 Months
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Seven students were chosen Tuesday by a soon-to-be-replaced Student Council to serve on the new Student Government Court for the
remainder of the school year. The students, and the dormitories they represent, are Jim Bailey, Richardson; Jim Marrow, Little; Stew
Brown, Duke; Stagg Newman, Belk; Charlie Brockwell, Watts; Rick Gourdin, Cannon; and Jack Steele, East.

These students were selected by the Council from lists which had been posted in Chambers and the College Union, encouraging
students to sign up. They were chosen on the basis of interest and acceptance of responsibility. The Council had planned
to choose the court Monday morning but had to adjourn for lack of a quorum. The court will replace the
old Student Body Regulations Court and will hear cases involving infractions of the student body regulations. Members serve for an
entire school year and are ordinarily chosen in September. There is one member from each dormitory.

In a special ceremony preceding the meeting, secretary Sam Darby pinned a yellow star on Peter Hobbie, signifying the best
attendance record of any Council member. David Ginn then presented a report on the role of eight Davidson students at
the Model United Nations last week. He called the assembly of delegations from various colleges “very worthwhile for the students
involved” and said it “helped Davidson's image a lot.” He suggested that the delegates be chosen in November next year
instead of this spring and that the official literature be sent directly to them. He said training in political science
and economics was very useful to those attending.

After this report, Fletcher Hartsell presented an account of the trip he and three other students made to the State
Student Legislature in Raleigh last week. He called it “a worthwhile forum for student government leaders across the state.” “We
knew more than we did last year about the proceedings,” said Hartsell, “but we were unable to submit a bill
because of a communications failure.” He said many state political candidates were present “because it is election year.” The Council
was interested in the two trips because funds were provided for the delegates from the Student Council budget.

Freshman President Steve Engstrom advised the Council that the report on the National Student Association Conference on Educational Reform was
being revised because it represented the partial opinions of the delegates. Engstrom, Franklin Anderson, and Harrison Higgins were the delegates.

Campus Comment
Drinking Rule Gets Opposition

Question: “If the faculty drinking rule were changed, where would you favor drinking on campus?”

George Purvis, junior: “In my opinion, there should be no restrictions on campus. It would be hypocrisy to allow it
in one place and not in another.”

Rick Travilla, junior: “I'd favor drinking all over campus, but I don’t believe that’s the way it will be or
should be approached at the present time. I believe it should start in the Union or fraternity houses.”

Dwight Hite, sophomore: “I'd favor drinking in the fraternity houses and perhaps limited drinking in dorms. I don't favor walking
around campus with drinks in your hand.”

Losers (Continued From Page One)

Tom Wheatley. Those running for junior class senator are: Mike Dickens, Fletcher Hartsell, Frank Murphy, John Passmore, Richard Rosenfeld, John
Smith, John Williams, David Dunn, Covey Carter, Pat Oglesby, Phil Hazel, and Dave Clemmons. Those students running for cheerleader are:
Freshmen: Charlie Brown, Reaves Louthan, Geoff Planer, Pat Reed, Paul Sawyer, Jack Trotter, David Cook, Robert Truitt, and Jim Luton.
Sophomores: John Ferguson, Robert Corbett, John Shott, and Bob Stubbs. Juniors: Jim Bailey, Randy Bridges, Ken Wallace, John Durham, and
John Gilmore. The elections for these offices will be held next Monday. In addition, all three defeated candidates for SGA
vice-president are running for junior class senator. Only two to six members of the initial 12-man Senate will be former
Council members, due to no incumbents filing for junior class senator and only one for sophomore class senator. Since each
class will elect three senators, this means that at least five senators, plus the freshman advisers, will have had no
previous experience. So far, only former council members elected are the president and vice president of the SGA.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
HEYWARD CARTER
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER
BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editor:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
JOE FRIEBEL
BOB McKELLAR
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Ben Garrett, Craig Culp, Louis Lavine, Glenn Mauney, Biff Fine, John Pancake, John Williams, Bill Traxler, John
Moore, Dick Anderson, Hugh Marr, Don Hoyt, Paul Schneider, George Allen, Ed Hay, David Sweatt, and Danny Coltrane.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

A DOG'S LIFE? This canine thinks it’s not so bad after all. His companion, and the donor whose coat he’s
sleeping on in the Union, is Mrs. Phil Hazel, wife of a Davidson student. (Staff Photo by McKellar.)

22 Counselors Due For Halls

Twenty-two rising juniors and seniors were selected Wednesday to serve as freshman hall counselors next year. For the first time,
the selection committee ruled that hall counselors may not serve as fraternity rush chairmen. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student
housing, said that the committee tried to select “the best men for the job. Fraternity affiliation is the last thing
considered.” Student members of the committee, with one exception, supported this selection procedure, Mrs. Nicholls said. She pointed out that
the committee made no attempt to distribute hall counselor positions evenly among applicants belonging to various fraternities.

Abbott’s Adaptation Of ‘Bartleby’ Is Image Of Man’s Loneliness

A REVIEW By DIRK GALBRAITH

It was a characteristically small house which saw the Red and Black Masquers present Herman Melville's “Bartleby” Thursday evening in
Hodson Hall, yet the applause was large, and deservedly so. In adapting Melville for the stage, Dr. Anthony S.Ab- bott
got at the heart of what that precursor of existential thought was trying to say about ‘man alone,’ and in
doing so presented the audience with a superbly engaging stage dialogue which was not Melville’s but his own.

Lingle (Continued From Page One)

persons was the subject of a meeting of the trustee committee and its 6-man faculty advisory committee March 7 in
Charlotte. The student advisory committee of Tom Earnhardt, Bobby Lane, Joe Kilpatrick, and Rich Cowart was not invited to the
meeting. The trustee committee did not receive the student group's list of suggested names until the day of the meeting,
Lingle said, and therefore felt the students “would be wasting their time” to come to the meeting.

“The primary source of information about these people is academic channels,” he said. “This is what was discussed at the
meeting with the faculty. But it's a route not open to students.” So far the student committee has submitted three
names, Earnhardt said. Several names will be submitted soon, he said. “I can assure you that we're going to do
our best to get complete information about every candidate that’s being put up who looks like a likely person,” Lingle
said. “But we're going to have to make our own judgments about how we're going to do that.” The student
committee declined comment on not being invited to the meeting.

The discussion over the Presbyterian requirement was prompted in part by the student committee, which has said it favors dropping
the restriction. The restriction, which is contained in the trustee bylaws, narrows the field of possibilities, Earnhardt said this week,
since Presbyterians represent less than 20 percent of all American Protestants. But Lingle, noting the large number of current college
presidents who are Presbyterians, said: “I think if you've got a lot who are already Presbyterian presidents you must have
a lot of people who are Presbyterians who aren't presidents who are potential presidents.

“Also I think anybody would be hard put to say that the college has failed to have good presidents up
to now because they've been limited to Presbyterians. I think the Presbyterians that they've had have been pretty outstanding men
and very successful presidents.”

Glenn Yarborough Records to choose from

The characters were excellently balanced in their roles, much to the credit of director Bill Andrews: Tim Gailey gave his
usually polished performance at center stage as Harcourt, the coolly reasonable lawyer whose reason, for once, fails him; Peter Lutken
projected the calm despair of the scrivener, Bartleby; and Charles McEwen and Finn Skagestad were a success in their parts
as the low comedy types, Nippers and Turkey. In addition to the major roles, Cullum Rodgers stood out from a
nondescript aggregation of bit characters; as the grub man, he was a monument to type casting.

Sunday Night Open House

The following homes will be open this Sunday at 8 Bryan 7 Jackson Ct. Locke White 203 Lorimer

The three major elements of the play, Harcourt, Bartleby, and the Nippers-Turkey duo, thus interacted smoothly to produce something that
was laughable but not quite funny, lamentable but not quite tragic: a net sensation currently described as “absurd.” In focusing
his drama upon the lawyer, playwright Abbott has universalized the scope of Melville's very self-directed short story. In Harcourt, he
has created the character of one who tries to disclaim responsibility for his fellow being, Bartleby, but is paradoxically drawn
to him out of a need for communication. Bartleby’s “irrational” behavior makes either alternative impossible and with the final curtain
one is left with the impression that the problem of human isolation is not amendable to the practical reason of
the lawyer. Abbott’s Melville creates the same hollow feeling of ambiguity and loneliness as might the more contemporary Ionesco or
Genet: the treatment goes beyond mere adaptation to successfully project this to the audience.

For dorm delivery, there will be a $0.25 service charge.

GET YOUR EVENING SNACK at the NEW WILDCAT DEN! We specialize in PIZZAS, DELICATESSEN FOOD, and FRIED CHICKEN, with our
special APPLE CIDER to wash it down. All of this in the restful atmosphere of the Den!! For those who
are unable to come over, we will have dorm delivery, as long as your order is in BEFORE 11 p.m.
(There will be only one delivery per night, at first). “SEE YOU AT THE DEN”

What you can't do

Mrs. Nicholls added that fraternity rush chairmen are usually elected after hall counselors have been selected. In a letter to
the 55 applicants for the 22 available jobs, Mrs. Nicholls said, “If this is a way in which you feel
you would like to serve your fraternity, then I must ask you not to accept your assignment as a hall
counselor.”

Seven rising seniors selected for the positions have served as hall counselors this year. They are: Tom Raker, Scott Cutting,
John Durham, George Rogister, Frank Spence, Bobby Vagt, and Bill Williams. Other rising seniors chosen were: Bob Apgar, Dave Clemmons,
Marshall Guill, and Joe Scales. Rising juniors chosen were: John Baker, Emerson Bell, Pat Bray, Mac Davis, Bob Dunham, George
Hannen, Dan Herd, Jerry Kroll, Cliff Patterson, Dave Sweatt, and Dave Wasserman. Rising senior Heyward Whetsell was chosen as first
alternate.

Hall counselors presently receive a $220 yearly stipend. Members of the hall counselor selection committee are: Dr. William B. Hight,
Jr., director of student counseling; Scott Woodmansee, chaplain; Jim Terry, assistant dean of students; Richard C. Burts, dean of students;
all graduating senior hall counselors; and Mrs. Nicholls.

with an Activities Grant

1) Send Lefty Driesell to a Dale Carnegie Course
2) Finance a wine taste-in
3) Buy shirts for the skin team
4) Buy flashlights to study in the library.

ANYTHING with this young lady. But you can have a “Happening,” make a movie, sponsor a symposium, or do anything
novel or creative to liven up this place. The Activities Grant Foundation has the money if you have the idea.
Start thinking about it. You'll get a letter next week.
