Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief
BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1968

PAGE TWO

The Blood-Letting
By DR. DAVID L. SMILEY
Professor of History
Wake Forest University

The significance of the Vietnam debate that is so sharply dividing Americans is that it is provoking serious reconsiderations of our national interests and purposes. Those who support the undeclared unpleasantness in Asia do so on grounds of national interest. They insist that it is necessary that we honor our treaty commitments and that it is prudent to maintain the policy of containment expressed in the Truman Doctrine of 1947, the frenetic alliance construction of Dulles, and the pledges of Dean Rusk. They predict that it would be fatal if our allies lost confidence in our protective cover, or if the Other Side discovered that we might back down under duress. That, they say, would mean endless conflicts with an aggressive and determined enemy who has pledged to bury us.

But it is becoming evident that events have wrecked this reasoning. There are indications that our allies have already lost confidence in our wisdom, and fear that our impulsive actions will incite a larger war. Certainly they seem profoundly unmoved by our pleas that they rush with us to a diseased spot on the body politic, there to die, like white corpuscles, for the well-being of the whole. Instead of strengthening alliances, the conflict has apparently weakened them. And we seem already to be engaged in an endless conflict with an aggressive and determined foe. Our armed power is systematically destroying what it was intended to preserve. Finally, there are indications that the Communist leadership is quite pleased that we are not backing down, for our military actions create support and unity among their otherwise divided movement.

Indeed, were I sympathetic with Communist objectives—which I am not—I would rejoice to see my primary enemy bogged down in a blood-letting it cannot win and dare not cease, and in the process of raising doubts and eroding its leadership. Such considerations as these have divided Americans, and have turned Dr. Spock’s attention from colic in the cradle to re-reading Thoreau in the thoroughfares. Such considerations have also raised questions as to policy. Is this course of action, apparently producing results the opposite of their intentions, in the national interest? Or should we change it and for the best argument advanced by its advocates—that of national interest itself?

It should be to our interest to support rather than oppose national self-determination movements in the world. Reports from Vietnam are almost unanimous in declaring that nationalism, and not Communism, is our enemy there. In seeking to defend the independence of a country whose only claim to existence is a set of surveyors’ lines on the map, we have permitted the Communists to assume the false position of befriending the national aspirations of a people whose historic and cultural relationships extend beyond these artificial political divisions. But even though the Communist position may be a false one, and one we may deplore, it would still be within our national interest to have a unified Vietnam under a native leadership long committed to resisting outside intervention and domination—even if that leadership were dyed in hues of brightest red. Mao’s victory in China, or Tito’s in Yugoslavia, or Castro’s in Cuba have not strengthened world Communism. They have instead divided and disintegrated its monolithic facade. Who is to say that a unified Vietnam, even Communist, would not be a more effective barrier to Chinese expansion than is the once-vaunted SEATO?

For Americans to assist in the national unification of those people, and to ease the shock of transition from colonialism through political division to unity, would make friends instead of enemies and would restore American foreign policy to its traditional support of self-determination of peoples. It would mean admitting that we have erred, and that would be humiliating. But other proud people have made similar confessions recently and have survived. It would mean declaring that if the Government of South Vietnam could not hold the loyalty and allegiance, and evoke the sacrifices, of the majority of its population, it would not deserve the right to speak for them. But it would also mean that Americans would surrender the abstractions which events have bankrupted and return to a clear-eyed consideration of their primary national interests in the world, and their persistent problems at home.

—“Old Gold and Black” February 26, 1968

Oops...
Oh my. The word just got to us that Davidson's student body is in the process of electing a new student body president to deal with campus issues. Now here we've gone and not written a single word about it in the editorial columns. We just must have lost sight of what is important to the welfare of the student body.

Our Turn
By John Gresham

ED. NOTE: John Gresham is a 1967 graduate of Davidson, now employed by the college. He will enter the U.S. Army in April, 1968.

Tuesday evening the American television audience was treated to a long-overdue feature, a realistic appraisal of the Vietnam war. This evaluation did not come from a representative of the government that has helped give birth to a new phenomenon, the credibility gap. Instead, it came from a television newsman who for the past several years has been overshadowed by the flashy but, perhaps less perceptive, pair of newsmen on a rival network. Walter Cronkite returned to the United States after reviewing in person the results of the Vietnam Tet offensive. His conclusions should be considered by all Americans, whether hawk or dove. He said he believed the Vietnamese war is destined to continue in a stalemate, for the physical and objective realities of the situation are such that neither side will ever be able to win an overwhelming victory. The U.S. has the capability to destroy the earth ultimately, but it is faced with opponents in the world situation who have the same capability. The North Vietnamese with their mutual borders with other Communist countries can continue to resupply and meet any U.S. strategy short of ultimate holocaust. Cronkite believes, therefore, that it is time for the U.S. to come to the conference table to negotiate the best possible settlement it can obtain, realizing that this may well be a settlement which does not seem to justify the loss of life and material which has gone into our effort in Vietnam.

Cronkite’s position seems to us to be sound. Such a conclusion to the war is certainly not one that leads to rejoicing; in fact, it will probably be many years before our country fully comprehends what our effort in Vietnam has cost our society. But if we can gain one invaluable lesson from this war, let it be this: ideologies and systems of thought have not reached the point where they can cope with every situation they encounter. Communism with its theories of the historic inevitability of the dialectic lost in Indonesia where it attempted to go against the history, the culture, and the realities which make up Indonesia. Perhaps western democracy has had to take its turn in Vietnam.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Good

ED. NOTE: The following letter from debate coach Ray McMillan proved too long to print and impossible to cut down and still preserve its value. It is to be continued next week.

Dear Editor,

This letter was originally intended as a reply to the young man who felt that rules were wrong unless they could be readily manipulated to suit his personal preferences, but after my first angry reaction I realized that his attitude merely reflects those which seem to be prevalent among the majority of the student body. So I wish to address my remarks to the student body at large.

First of all, I am going to suggest that he who argues that “good rules are flexible rules” is reasoning from an unsupported premise. Who says good rules are flexible rules? The same fellow who said, “Rules are made to be broken.” I am not saying that the premise cannot be supported but I am saying that you have merely taken its truth for granted. I think I can make a pretty good case for the opposite: As an individual, i.e., a student at Davidson, you comprise one one-thousandth of the whole. When your existence is viewed in that manner, you are pretty insignificant. That is a fact you will have to face whether you like it or not. As a citizen of this country you comprise less than one two-hundred-millionth of the whole. How does that grab you? Where then did you acquire the conceit to convince yourself that a rule made to govern the one thousand or the two hundred million should be suspended or modified to meet your personal demands. “But good rules must be flexible!” you shout. If that rule were suspended to allow for your exception then the precedent has been set for the 999 more exceptions. With 1,000 exceptions to it, that rule has literally been flexed to death. With the rule gone the order by which societies guide themselves is also gone. As hard as it may be to accept the fact, rules are not made specifically to serve the individual but the nameless, faceless whole. There are even rules which may not serve any individual but he must accede to them because he is an inescapable part of the whole. In short, it is necessary that the whole function efficiently, even to the point of sacrificing the well-being of any given part. It may be a tough fact of existence to swallow, but you are going to have to conform to the rule rather than expecting every rule to conform to you, or your survival in this world is highly questionable.

At this point you may be crying, “Totalitarianism!”—and you may be correct. Now, let's see if some flexibility cannot exist to make allowance for exceptions without destroying order: Class work for a course of study must be completed before a certain date, a final examination must be taken by the student before a certain date, and a grade must be recorded before a certain date. That's the rule. Yet, certain exceptions can be made to that rule without upsetting the order of the operation. For example, a student with a valid excuse for having missed the exam (one resulting from circumstances beyond his control such as illness, death in the family), is given an opportunity to make up that exam at an established time. That, my friends, is flexibility at work! Why then doYou charge inflexibility? Is it because it is not the particular type of flexibility that suits your own whims? Is it because you are expected to retain a bit of knowledge for two months longer than you would like? (Your peers could well argue inflexibility because the rule does not allow them to study two months longer before taking their exams.) I will admit that I think this college needs to promote this selfish attitude when it implies in its advertising, “We will provide an education tailored to your personal needs. We are interested in you.” It reminds me of the new motto of the CBS network, “CBS: where what you want to hear comes first." Frankly, I disapprove, but this is a private institution and has the privilege of setting its own policies. If I don't wish to accept them I have the same option open to me that you do—find another pasture.

Howard Advises Timely Changes

Dear Editor,

Given that the purpose of clocks is to tell the correct time, and given that Davidson has many clocks which, because of their telling the correct time, should agree, I must confront the college with two alternatives open to it in view of its inability to keep its clocks in agreement with either the bells or any accepted central standard (Eastern Standard Time, Greenwich Mean Time, etc.). One alternative is to stop all clocks at a given minute, thus giving our campus the eerie phenomenon of having clocks that agree. And, given that a stopped clock is right twice a day, we would have the correct time far more frequently than we do now. The other alternative is to establish a Dean of Clocks. This office would require several assistant deans, a secretary, and an answering service (to handle incoming complaints). The dean and his assistants would have the task of going around the campus from clock to clock, setting them forward or backward and speeding them up or slowing them down. One of the assistant deans could be designated assistant dean of clocks, Department of Bells and Buzzers and achieve a much-needed but rare coordination with the clocks. I must close now, as I am late for class... I think...

Robert E. Howard ‘68
Davidson College

Speaker Ban Survives In 27-Year-Old Statute

ED. NOTE: The following article was taken from The Daily Tar Heel of the University of North Carolina, Feb. 22, 1968. The author is Rick Gray of the Tar Heel staff.

The speaker ban law may be dead, but its idea still remains law in the state of North Carolina. Passed in 1941 under the subtitle of “Subversive Activities,” there is a law that prohibits any state-owned building from being used “for the purpose of advocating, advising, or teaching a doctrine that the government of the United States, the State of North Carolina or any political subdivision thereof should be overthrown by force, violence or any other unlawful means.” While this first law applies to all state-owned buildings, or buildings owned by an institution supported “in whole or in part by State funds,” the speaker ban law, passed in June of 1963, prohibits such use only of buildings owned by state-supported colleges or universities. Also, the 1941 law applies to all persons who are considered “subversive,” not only Communists as that speaker ban does, but also the right-wingists. It would be conceivable that the 1941 law could be expanded to cover such organizations as the American Nazi Party, the Black Muslims, and similar groups calling for radical change in the U.S. government. Political observers across the state, who dug the 1941 law up out of the post-World War II dust it was buried in, are saying that the General Assembly will probably not try to write a new constitutional speaker ban, but will rely on the power of the 1941 law for all of the regulation that the legislators feel is needed on college campuses.

‘The Graduate’ Portrays Boredom Without Boring

ED. NOTE: The following is a review of ‘The Graduate,’ now showing at the Plaza Theater in Charlotte, by junior Ashton Trice.

I found The Graduate to be an extremely funny motion picture. Mike Nichols’ experience as a professional comic gave this film a sense of timing that can hardly be criticized. His direction of Dustin Hoffman, the graduate, a fish out of water in the non-academic world, is particularly witty. Equally as fine is Anne Bancroft’s portrayal of the sultry, worldly-wise older woman with whom the graduate becomes entangled. The movie sees the world through the graduate’s point of view, the ennui, the confusion, the frustration of his life, without ever becoming boring, confusing, or sordid. It remains throughout funny. Perhaps the most marvelous scene is the final one. Though Mr. Nichols has emphatically stated the contrary, one cannot help seeing the crucifixion symbolism in this scene, and the eventual salvation of this young Jewish boy through the cross. Perhaps this scene, which is as obvious as a James Dean dying scene, is a parody of the Christ symbol. The comedy comes across without appearing blasphemous to anything but other movies. It would be difficult to find another film currently being shown that is more entertaining than “The Graduate.” It is entertaining, but lacks many of the more profound qualities of Nichols’ earlier film, or, for that matter, Miss Bancroft's. If you want a laugh, go and see it. If you want more, try and catch “Bonnie and Clyde” or “In the Heat of the Night” a second time through.

Secondly, I am more than a bit fed up with the constant criticisms directed toward the “irresponsible administration” for problems that you yourselves have created. Case in point: There was recently a fire in a dormitory room which resulted in considerable damage and in potential loss of life and valuable property. It seems that the fire extinguisher was locked and the key did not fit the lock. That was, indeed, a dangerous situation and some blame can rightly be placed on the college for such an oversight. Yet, THE DAVIDSONIAN used the incident for an excuse for a blanket indictment of the “irresponsible office of Grover Meetze” instead of looking to the real source of the blame. The “wrong key” incident became a scapegoat for your own irresponsibility. Why did the fire extinguisher have to be locked in the first place? I think you know the answer to that one! You insist on the prankish pleasure of destroying those things placed there for the protection of your lives—I repeat that—the protection of your lives, in an emergency, then if it can’t be there when you need it you are so quick to throw the blame onto anyone but yourselves. Suppose the extinguisher had been empty rather than having the wrong key to the lock. Its lack of usefulness would have been exactly the same. Now I am sure that the placing of the wrong key can be laid to an oversight. What's your excuse?

(Continued next week)

Looking Backward
By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Columns And Comments

The in thing for columns now, if I can judge by the sports pages of the Charlotte papers, is interviews with and character sketches of Davidson basketball players. I suppose this is not surprising, considering the success of the team, but it strikes me as unfair that former “scholar-athletes” (it used to be simply “student-athletes”), who became ex-jocks by turning in their... uh, uniforms, are not publicized in the same way. This column is devoted to garnering the ex-jocks some measure of publicity. Since I didn’t have the time or inclination to interview these fortunate few, the following is what I imagine such interviews would be like in a typical sports column.

Cecil Clifton was in the dining room of his fraternity house, where he waits tables one week a month. “Hey, Geoff,” he greeted. “Hey, Cecil,” I quickly retorted. Clifton, from Avondale Estates, Georgia, was on basketball scholarship for two years. The shy senior talked about his job as waiter: “Yeah, my basketball has come in handy on the waiting shift. Yesterday, for instance, at supper, I hit the ol’ wastebasket six times in a row with paper cups, and twice in a row with plates, throwing frisbee style.” To emphasize his point, Clifton wadded up a napkin and flung it straight and true toward the basket. When asked if he ever missed, the gesticulating Georgian allowed, “Well, right now I’m hotter than a two-dollar pistol. I have my bad weeks, though, when I’m colder than a walrus’s mustache after three laps around Hudson Bay.” I asked the articulate Atlantan about reports that he wasn’t a particularly good dribbler. “Why don’t you stick around for the meal and find out for yourself?”

Taking the cool Clifton at his word, I positioned myself near the kitchen door so as best to observe his waiting style. He replaced empty platters and depleted pitchers with gusto, and at the same time wolfed down his own lunch. Clifton had every right to confidence when he asked me to put reports about his dribbling to the empirical test. As the meal unfolded, it became obvious that not only does the suave student possess great stamina, but also that he is the best dribbler I’ve seen since my own pre-school days.

I next decided to seek out Bobby Lane, who also was on basketball scholarship for his first two years. Bobby (or, as his friends call him, Bob) has sunk pretty fast since he gave up the cager’s art. The degeneracy of his attire (khaki pants and white socks) is matched only by the hairy growth immediately above his upper lip, which I at first mistook to be a skin disease. The Cajun cager (Lane is from New Orleans) has been relegated to obscurity since his sophomore year. In point of fact, I did not know who he was until somebody passing in the hall pointed out that the monk in the seminary’s ontological proof was indeed the man whom I sought.

“What do you know good?” I asked provocatively. “I can't really answer that question without further amplification on your part concerning just what exactly are your epistemological assumptions with respect to your criteria for knowledge, and, secondly, what sort of system of aesthetics and ethics you imply when you speak of the good.” Now, I realized, I have this restive radical by the specs. Lane was set up for the kill. I fired my next question at him: “Just what have you contributed to Davidson College since you quit playing for Lefty?” He muttered something about the Blue Sky Committee. Shaking my head in disgust at the fall of the once-great one, I quietly shut the door and dejectedly tiptoed away. As the door swung shut, I heard something about a student committee to advise the trustees in their quest for a new college president. Just before I reached the stairs, I could barely hear him talk about a pretty good grade average. Lane may be on a fantastic array of committees and Lane may be a Dean’s List student, Lane may be in ODK and Lane may be one of the most analytical thinkers at Davidson, Lane may exhibit great responsibility and Lane may exhibit a genuine concern for the great social issues of the day, but Bobby Lane will never become a member of the Beaver Club.