YMCA Canvass May Gain Goal
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

The YMCA has climbed past the $3,000 mark in its fund drive. Emerson Bell, YMCA vice-president and head of the
fund drive, said contributions totaled $3,150 Tuesday. Bell predicted a $3,500 final total. He said this prediction includes faculty and
student pledges in addition to students not yet contacted. Freshmen gave about $1,000 of the total. Bell said this was
slightly higher than their balanced share of support, but added this had been the case in previous drives. He said
faculty and administration support totaled $500.

College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee said he was pleased by the contributions, but also disappointed. "In an age of affluence, we
could have a budget twice the amount of the one we have. In the forties," he said, "the YMCA worked
with a budget of between six and seven thousand dollars."

"There are a significant number of students who don't contribute at all," Woodmansee said, "but most would not want to
be on a campus without YMCA programs."

This year's fund effort was based on the theme: "Be a Great Guy — Support the Y." Oct. 21 was
declared "Great Guy Day" and YMCA cabinet members and other students contacted members of the administration and student body. Contributions
were acknowledged by membership cards and "I'm a Great Guy" buttons.

Moneys raised for the YMCA will be spent on various programs on campus and in the community, including STEP, Stimulus,
the Great Issues Symposium, the Foreign Program, and religious life activities.

Up ‘n’ Coming
Friday, November 1
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Green Room B

Saturday, November 2
10:30 a.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. Citadel, Richardson Field
2 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. Citadel, Richardson Field
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Play: "Billy Budd," Hodson Hall

Sunday, November 3
7:30 p.m. Worship Service, Lingle Chapel
10 p.m. Open End, Union Lobby

Monday, November 4
4 p.m. Cross-Country State Meet, Soccer Field

Tuesday, November 5
10 a.m. Assembly: Contemporary American Artists, Love Auditorium
7 p.m. Film: "Hamlet," Morrison Room
7:30 p.m. Film: "The Collector," Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Movie: "The Collector," Morrison Room
10 p.m. Student Senate, Phi Hall

Wednesday, November 6
3 p.m. Investment Club, Chambers B-3
8 p.m. Movie: "Vietnam: How We Got In and How We Get Out," Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Play: "Billy Budd," Hodson Hall

Thursday, November 7
10 a.m. Assembly: Movie: "The Collector," Love Auditorium
1-6 p.m. Quips and Cranks Photos, Union Lobby
2 p.m. Freshman Football: Davidson vs. Citadel, Richardson Field
4 p.m. Cross-Country State Meet, Soccer Field
8:15 p.m. Play: "Billy Budd," Hodson Hall

Friday, November 8
10:10 a.m. Sammtisch Snackbar
8 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. Emory, Soccer Field
8:15 p.m. Play: "Billy Budd," Hodson Hall

Davidson Civic Group Wins Progress Prize
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The Piedmont Area Development Association of Davidson has won first place among communities in Mecklenburg County in a recent community
improvement competition. The contest, sponsored by area Chambers of Commerce and the North Carolina National Bank, cited Davidson's P.A.D.A. for
work done in housing improvement and beautification. The Davidson chapter was awarded a prize of $50 and will compete with
community groups all over the state in final judging on November 11.

The P.A.D.A., formed in the fall of 1967, is a community action group with some sixteen members headed by Mrs.
Mildred Lowery. The group is aided by the County Agricultural Agent and by D. B. Waymer, community action representative of
the Office of Economic Opportunity. Although all P.A.D.A. members are Negroes, Mrs. Lowery emphasized that the organization is open to
all interested in making Davidson a better community.

In addition to conducting a cleanup campaign and upgrading housing in Davidson, the P.A.D.A. works to find jobs for unemployed
workers and youth. The group has also petitioned the town government for sidewalks in the Negro neighborhood and has succeeded
in obtaining curbs on some of the streets there, Mrs. Lowery said. Connected with the P.A.D.A. is a 25-member Home
Demonstration Club headed by Mrs. Hattie Johnson. This group has helped many Davidson families with problems of home economics and
budgeting resources.

Campus Radio Station Aims Toward January Opening, Needs Funds For License

The campus radio station will be operating by January if two roadblocks are removed, its student director said this week.
Money is the major obstacle, according to Ed Dobbs. He said he had applied for $10,000 from the Duke Endowment
and Richardson Foundations to finance the station. In late November, when the money is received from the foundation with the
highest offer, it will be added to the $1,000 the Union gave the station project last year. If a foundation
fails to provide the necessary money, Dobbs hopes to get some money from the Student Activities Fee and organize a
fund drive similar to that conducted by the YMCA.

The Federal Communications Commission cannot act on Davidson's application for a license until the school has fulfilled three requirements: have
an engineer, a suitable broadcast booth, and proper financing, according to Dobbs. The first two have already been met and,
when the money is obtained, Davidson will probably be permitted to set up a 10-watt station with the call letters
WDAV-FM and a range of seven miles.

WDAV-FM will be a non-commercial, educational station — educational in the sense that it will broadcast, at scheduled times, programs
of varying interests, Dobbs said. The programming will be determined by a student poll. The station may have a movable
broadcast van for "on the scene" coverage of distant events. John Trask, a Davidson alumnus who owns a radio station
in Buford, S.C., has offered to give the new station the necessary equipment, Dobbs said.

Chamber Concert Here Wednesday

The Piedmont Chamber Orchestra, under the direction of Igor Buketoff, will perform in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Wednesday. The
Orchestra, made up of faculty members of the North Carolina School of the Arts, was started with a Rockefeller Foundation
grant.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Masquers To Present Billy Budd

"Billy Budd," a modern morality play about a young man at sea in 1798, will be presented by the Red
and Black Masquers in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m. next Thursday through Saturday. "Billy Budd is a naive young foretopman
who recognizes no evil," said Rupert T. Barber Jr., director of the production. "The cruel master-at-arms, Claggart, is a man
who tolerates no goodness."

Adapted for the stage by Louis Coxe and Robert Chapman from the novel by Herman Melville, the play takes place
aboard the H.M.S. Indomitable at sea during August, 1798, the year after the naval mutinies at Spithead and the Nore.
Billy Budd is played by Joe Gardner, a senior from Miami, Fla., who also designed the sets. Gardner played Sean
O'Casey in "Pictures in the Hallway" last season. Tim Gailey, a senior from Greensboro who has appeared in several majorRoles
at Davidson will be Captain Vere, and Bill Green, a freshman from New Orleans with considerable high school acting experience,
will play Claggart. Tickets may be obtained by writing or calling the college Drama Department, 503 S. Broad St.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

A part was responsible for the construction of a new low-income housing development on Griffin Street last year. Twenty-three houses
have been built there so far with financing obtained through the Farmers’ Home Administration. The P.A.D.A. is currently working to
improve garbage collection in residential areas and has plans for developing a community center on Griffin Street now owned by
the College YMCA.

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

As far as politics in Mecklenburg County is concerned, it's where the action isn't. In this year of the three-way
battle for the presidency, one could hardly expect fire and brimstone from the locals, but it is amazing how deafening
the silence is. There are four elections with full contingents of candidates from the Democratic and Republican parties: the State
senate race, the state representative race, the race for the Board of County Commissioners, and the race for the judgeships
of the district court.

The Democrats are running on the basis of their seniority and experience in the state legislature. Several of the present
representatives and senators are in line for chairmanships of the different legislative committees. The Republicans are going to have to
overcome this obvious selling point. They will have to prove that they can be as effective in representing the county's
interests in a Democratic legislature as the incumbents will. In addition to this, they will have to work some kind
of attack on issues such as a tobacco tax, increased alcohol taxes, and liquor by-the-drink.

In the commissioners race, the Republicans seem to have the better of it. The two big issues are the consolidation
of the county and city government and the schools. In the school issue, the Democrats are charging that the Republican
board, headed by Davidson chemistry Professor James G. Martin, has not done enough in the way of raising teachers’ salaries.
They want to use the sales tax in Mecklenburg County to supplement the state wages. Martin counters that the state
will, in all probability, raise teachers' salaries. Therefore, there is no need to further supplement salaries with more than two
percent of the sales tax revenue. However, the Democrats are saying that Martin's board has cut local supplements of salaries
every time the state has raised teachers' pay. Thus, salaries have remained at more or less the same level.

Martin can show that the present board has not been completely insensitive to educational needs. In the years of Republican
rule, the increase in the school budget has been three times that of the previous Democratic board's increases. "We cannot
give the Board of Education everything it asks for," Martin said. "We have to have certain priorities as to what
parts of the budget are most important." The Democrats are going to have to show that the priorities have been
misplaced.

A minor issue in this election is the voting machines. After years of Democratic debate, Martin's board finally decided on
and purchased voting machines. The machines were not the ones recommended by the Board of Elections, however, and complications with
them have forced the use of paper ballots in several precincts in the county. Democratic Precinct Chairman Mrs. Norman Johnson
expressed concern that many voters would cast their votes for the presidential election and then fail to vote in the
state elections, not realizing that they have to pull another lever to vote a straight ticket in the state elections.

Other than these issues, the Democrats are going to be hard-pressed to overcome the Republican board. The board has developed
a county-wide water and sewage policy, cooperated with the Charlotte City Council to the extent that the all-Democratic Council has
applied to the Bureau of Housing and Urban Development to recognize Mecklenburg as a model of city-county cooperation, and implemented
a county zoning ordinance in two-thirds of the county.

In the judges race, the 26th Judicial Bar Association has endorsed the Democratic slate of candidates. Aside from this endorsement,
voters will have to cast their ballots on the basis of experience in judicial matters.

Censure Of Code Defeated
By CHARLES KNIGHTON
Staff Writer

The Presbytery of Concord last week voted down a motion to censure Davidson College for passing the Code of Responsibility.
At a meeting of the presbytery Oct. 22, a motion was made to censure the college for its action concerning
drinking on campus. According to Dr. Samuel D. Maloney, Davidson religion professor who was present at the meeting, the motion
was defeated by a voice vote of about 45-15. Several Davidson trustees and Maloney spoke in defense of the college's
new rules. A letter from Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. addressed to "friends of Davidson College" concerning the
action of the trustees, was read in order to put the action in its proper context, said the Rev. Scott
Woodmansee, college chaplain.

At the meeting, trustees who had voted against the CRAP report defended its passage by other trustees. Because the motion
was defeated, it was not recorded in the official report of the presbytery. Presbyteries are the governing bodies of the
Presbyterian Church immediately above the local churches. The presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida elect three-fourths of Davidson’s Board of
Trustees. The Presbytery of Concord is part of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., with which Davidson College is affiliated.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, Concord, N.C.
