Ce, Haul Down The SC Flags

Since this is the last issue of the year, and since there will be no chance for letters to the
editor, I thought I'd do some spring cleaning around the sports desk and throw out some ideas in the process.

I’m not sure why it hasn’t reached North Carolina, but up around Virginia there has been a lot of talk
about Davidson dropping out of the Southern Conference. No one seems to know where the rumors got started, but it
certainly has been “the topic” for sports editors to discuss in their Sunday columns.

Take Bill Brill, the sports editor of the Roanoke Times, for example. In a column recently Brill stated, “Davidson might
very well join WVU (West Virginia) and Virginia Tech as an independent. If that happens, and it’s a very good
possibility, the Southern would be in an awful mess.” He cited the arguments that ensued during the Southern Conference spring
meeting in Asheville, when Lefty Driesell and Tom Scott proposed a change in the number of required basketball games for
eligibility in tournament play, as his evidence. Driesell had proposed, after the departure of West Virginia, that the number of
required games be reduced from 14 to seven. No one at the meeting was very impressed by the motion. Some
flatly refused. Others politely said “no.” Someone suggested a compromise solution of ten required games. Lefty was quoted as saying
that he could survive with the ten-game requirement, but not with 14. The latter would just limit Davidson’s ability to
schedule top opponents. So the fire was kindled.

What is going to happen if Davidson should decide to drop out? How would it affect the Southern Conference and
the college? Brill suggests that it would ruin the conference. “For one thing,” he noted, “it (the conference) is committed
to Charlotte for the basketball tournament, and without Davidson, that critically important money-producer would be a financial flop.” Good point.
One must agree with Brill that “basketball in the Southern needs Davidson,” especially since the departure of West Virginia. Certainly
Davidson’s basketball program would expand if released from the clutch of the conference. It is evident merely through examination of
West Virginia’s 1968-69 basketball schedule. The Mountaineers, freed from conference limits, have signed such teams as national char racuse, Florida,
Maryland, St. John’s, Duke, and will play in the Rainbow Classic in Honolulu. In the Rainbow tourney, they will face
such opponents as Arizona, Columbia, Purdue, Santa Clara, and Stanford.

The remaining question is, “But what about the other sports?” It is generally agreed that basketball would improve. What about
those other teams, and those conference championships that give us such big trophies? I offer no substantiation for my claim,
but I believe that these sports would be aided as well if we hauled down the Southern Conference flags in
the gym and replaced them with the banners of fellow independents. I'm in favor of breaking our bond with the
conference. Our football team is improving, but it stands no real chance for a conference title. It has proved that
it is capable of obtaining a good schedule outside of the conference. We play Bucknell, Virginia, Connecticut, Wofford, and Vanderbilt
next year. And we could still play the conference teams as well. Certainly, as Brill and others have suggested, other
SC teams have “nothing to lose” by playing the Wildcats. Brill suggests that Davidson will be out of money for
football (claiming a $150 thousand loss this year) fairly soon anyway, and will probably drop the sport. We wouldn’t be
able to take another golf or tennis title, but with most of the Southern’s schools going subsidized in these sports,
we probably wouldn’t hold the crowns for very long anyway. These teams don’t play a large number of conference teams
in their season now; the golfers played a number of ACC teams this year and the tennis boys have played
a large non-conference schedule. The question is whether the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. I suggest that they don’t. I will
make no predictions, but I have a feeling that Davidson College is approaching the end of its Southern Conference days.
And it might not be a bad idea.

Spring Cleaning

So much for the Southern Conference... I haven't begun to clean out the sports desk. We were hoping to have
some further information on Mike Maloy’s selection to the second team of the Converse All-America selections, but there have been
no official releases distributed. Just as a matter of information for your calendar for next fall: the Davidson-Vanderbilt football game,
originally scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 23, has been rescheduled for Friday evening, Nov. 22. It will be played in Charlotte.

Coach Harry Fogleman, whose talent as an international recruiter was affirmed this year by the appearance of George Berner and
Alfonso Carillo in tennis and soccer, apparently has another ace up his sleeve. There will be another foreign addition to
the tennis team next spring, as a boy from Holland has arranged to spend a year of study here. Not
quite as talented as Berner, he will probably play somewhere around the number three position.

Tom Cox, who once punted a ball 71 yards for Davidson, has signed a grid contract with the Dallas Cowboys.
Linebacker John Giles is talking over terms with the Cowboys as well as NFL Champion Green Bay.

One final item: the clean-up resulted in the uncovering of an anonymous contribution to the sports page, signed merely by
a mysterious organization, the Committee for the Preservation of IMAC Softball as a Spectator Sport. Entitled the IMACLOD “All-Turkey” Softball
Team (think about that title for a minute), the article claimed to “recognize those individuals who, though they may have
been overlooked on the all-star teams, have nonetheless contributed to make IMAC softball the great spectator sport that it is.”

The members of the team submitted were Lindsey Davis (SAE), first base; Bill Funderburk (Independent), second base; Chet Davidson (SAE),
shortstop; Rusty Brannon (Phi Gamms), third base; Mike O'Neill (Kappa Sig), pitcher; John Huggins (Pi Kapp), catcher; and David Hubbard
(SAE), Charlie Goodykoontz (SAE), and Tom Newberry (Phi Gamm) in the outfield.

That’s 30...

Bryan Takes Three Top Athletic Awards

Football and wrestling standout Lowell Bryan took top honors at Tuesday's athletic awards assembly, as he received three awards, including
the Tommy Peters Memorial Award. The Peters Award, presented annually to the graduating senior who best exemplifies the ‘Davidson spirit’
in athletic competition, was given to Bryan for his four years of football and wrestling competition. He also received the
Armfield Blocking Trophy for his football play and the most valuable wrestler award.

Senior linebacker John Giles, who is negotiating professional football contracts, received the LaFar Defensive Trophy. Giles captained the 1967 Wildcat
defensive squad, and converted 48 of 50 extra point tries during his college career.

The award for the Outstanding Freshman Athlete went to sprinter Rick Lyon, who last weekend won the 220-yard dash at
the Southern Conference meet. The flying freshman, who also plays football, was also named the recipient of the Fetzer Award
for excellence in track, the first time the award has been given to a freshman.

Greg Cox, whose perfor-

EXCUSE ME, COACH ... I HAVE TO RUN
Tom Stevens hands off MVP plaque to Gordon Slade.

Lyon Captures SC Crown, Wins 220 In Record Time

Davidson claimed its first Southern Conference track champion since 1965 last weekend, when freshman sprinter Rick Lyon captured the conference
220-yard dash at Ft. Eustis, Va. Lyon's win was the first for Davidson in a conference meet since Alan Turner
won the 100 and 220 three years ago. Lyon sprinted the 220 in record time of 21.3, but the officials
disallowed the record because of an “aiding wind.” The wind, according toMembers of the team were not noticeable at the
time of the running. Lyon's time eclipsed both conference and school marks. The old conference time was 21.5 while the
best school time was 21.6. He also equaled the best conference time in the 100-yard dash with 9.7 but finished
third behind William and Mary's speed merchant, Mike Fratkin, also a freshman, who took the race in 9.5, wind-aided time.
Although Lyon was the only Wildcat to score in the meet, which found Davidson in last place, the team managed
to break several school records.

Slade Tops SC Hitting At .429

In spite of collecting only one hit in his last 11 times at bat, sophomore Gordon Slade captured the Southern
Conference batting crown by a substantial margin. The third baseman-turned-right fielder found the going rough in the last three games
of the season but finished at a .429 clip to take the crown with ease. He also led in the
number of hits with 42. Richmond's Bill Kennedy took the runner-up position with a .381 average, while Furman's Gary Laney
fell to third place at .337. Davidson's Wade Shepherd was 10th in pitching, with a 2.40 earned run average.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6581

The competition, made up of mainly scholarship schools, was extremely tough this year, according to Coach Heath Whittle. The mile
relay team, although not placing in the top five, set a new school record of 3:20.0. Ken Hill, Greg Cox,
John Puckett, and Lyon ran in the relay, with Puckett having the fastest leg, running his quarter in 49.2. Puckett
set a new Davidson record in the 880-yard run, running a 1:54.4. The time was still only good enough for
a fourth-place finish in his heat. Numerous other Davidson participants made good showings, only to be dominated by the scholarship
runners. Jim McLaughlin, team captain, ran his best mile time in two years with a 4:31.5 but failed to place.
George Rogister, who also failed to place, equaled the best Davidson time of the year in the 120 high hurdles
at 15.2. The 440-yard relay team, made up of Jim Trussel, Hub Cox, Hill, and Lyon, failed to place in
spite of a 43.0 time. Hill ran his best quarter mile in 51.2.

Thinking of Exams? Good luck to you.

Complete Prescription Service
Sundries, Toiletries, and Cosmetics
Russell Stover Candies
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. weekdays — Sunday 10 to 11 A.M.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Frank Bass turned in one of his best performances with a jump of 6 feet even.

Thinking of clothes: Think of John Mack's.

Skippers do it! English Leather, action is. Very intrepid. Very masculine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the complete array
of ENGLISH LEATHER men's toiletries. A PRODUCT OF MEM COMPANY, INC. NORTHVALE, N.J.

Mooresville

Name
Address
City
State
Zip

New Renewal

I enclose $6.00
Bill me at $6.50

Have a good summer; To those who will be back next September — we look forward to serving you again.
To you Seniors, The Best to you in the future!

"You mean my name isn’t in there once, Dean?”

Subscribe to THE DAVIDSONIAN. All important alumni do.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

and if you’re back in Summer School come visit and browse with us.

Our 56th Year

Mail to: Circulation Mgr.
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036
