The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson N. C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1968

Thanks, President Martin

The day they named D. Grier Martin president of Davidson College he came up with one of those statements that mark a man for what he really is. “I couldn't believe they weren't crazy,” he said.

President Martin is that kind of man. Humility more than anything else has characterized his 10 years in the college’s hottest seat. When they offered him the job, Martin said he would turn it down if it wasn’t for the fact that he felt that he had the support of the whole college community. He would have, too. It’s just lucky for Davidson that he didn’t. For in the last 10 years the college has grown in stature, slowly at first, recently by modest leaps and bounds. The endowment is up, the physical plant is up, faculty salaries are up, a new curriculum is in, and a new code of responsibility is on the way.

Yet the man who is probably most responsible for it says he really didn’t have all that much to do with it after all. The rest of us know different. Admittedly, President Martin was cast by necessity into the role of money-raiser, a role that often kept him away from the college and its day-by-day problems and triumphs. But it is to his credit that even though he was sometimes removed from the scene, he had the wisdom to name able, progressive stand-ins.

Since he announced his retirement last winter, editorial writers all over the South have praised him for his contributions to Davidson and higher education. We won’t try to match them. We can judge him, however, from a standpoint that no other editorial writer possesses—that of the student—and from that standpoint, too, President Martin rates mighty high. For if President Martin has been anything, he has been a friend of the student. For 10 years he has kept an ear open to their complaints and an eye open for their well-being. It’s no wonder that practically every student who has gone through Davidson has felt a kind of closeness to him.

We only regret that President Martin will not be president for another 10 years. If the next president is half the friend and gentleman D. Grier Martin is, we will consider ourselves unusually fortunate.

Look-Alikes

There may be no other place in the world like Davidson, but there is a college in Ohio that shares a few of our distinctive features. The College of Wooster is small, relatively isolated, and Presbyterian related, and up until a few weeks ago it was hunting for a new president. Wooster had a trustee committee conducting the search just like us, with a student committee something akin to ours helping out. Trouble was, when the new man was finally named, he wasn’t the one that the student group had recommended, unanimously. “The students were coldly ignored by the trustees,” said one Wooster student we know. “It was a mere exercise in student futility.” Thank goodness Davidson is not going to be like Wooster in that respect. Or is it?

Spartans Or Students?

The open dorm experiment last weekend may have drawn a disappointing number of female guests, but if for no other reason than the faculty members it attracted it should be rated a success. Actually, not that many professors showed up either. For those that did, there was the chance for a good look at two of the college’s dorms, from the inside. For at least one or two faculty members, it was a first. By and large, Davidson professors do not know what is inside Dormitory Row. One professor who has been here for years said his visit to Richardson last Saturday was the first time he had ever been inside one. We just wish that he would step over and take a gander at the inside of one or two of the other student living quarters. We think he might be surprised and not a little bit disappointed and disgusted at what he would see.

The dorms here are lousy. The three freshman dorms, built in the 1920s but appearing straight out of the last century, are enough to make any arriving freshman want to pack up and go home. And the others, despite their relative youth, aren’t much better. The rooms are bleak, the lighting poor and the bathing facilities inadequate. The only thing those long halls are good for are hall soccer and frisbee throwing. It’s as if the architects thought they were designing the buildings for Spartans, not students. Maybe if some more faculty members would come and take a look at what we are living in they would be startled enough to join us in a plea for new dorms or at least some renovation.

ONE LAST SHOT.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Approach To Richardson Scholars Should Be Flexible,

To The Editor:

Since virtually all the rest of the Richardson Scholars already have expressed their views on the foreign students’ program in a joint letter to the editor, I should like to make known some of my personal experiences and opinions. There is a genuine agreement between the Richardson Scholars that the financial conditions of the program are extremely favorable. What the majority of the group seems to be concerned about, is the academic aspect. Let me suggest that the dissatisfactions that occur, may be due more to unrealistic expectations on the part of individual students than to any shortcomings on the part of the program.

Personally I came here with the expectation of finding, not a European-type university, but an American college, with all its comparative advantages. My expectations were great, and it is a pleasure to me to assure that they have all been met. It has been an invaluable experience for me to get away from the one-sided university-studying I have been used to, and participate in a liberal arts program, with opportunity of widening my range of knowledge and interests. This, apart from the thrill of living in a new and unexplored environment, is what I want to cite as my most rewarding experience.

As for the academic requirements for foreign students, they are as flexible as one could reasonably expect. The only regulation is that we have to choose one course in some way pertaining to American culture, a fair enough requirement, presuming that we are all motivated to learn about America. Apart from this one limitation, we are at our complete liberty to choose the courses we want and how we conduct our studies.

I would like to make a few specific comments on last week's letter from my fellow Richardson Scholars. They make the contention that they were not informed of what would be expected of them in the classroom. Personally I received a college catalogue and a stack of documents where on at least two different sheets I found reference to the particular regulations concerning class attendance etc., followed by the statement: “All foreign students are expected to conform in good spirit to these regulations.” I find it hard to believe that I was the only one who received this information.

Finally, the 11 Richardson Scholars call for “a greater opportunity for the individual students to use their cultures to diversify the academic environment.” I am sure the intention is good, but the authors of the statement do not seem to realize that if we do not today diversify the academic environment, we are to blame. We participate in classes, eat in fraternities, all student activities are open to us. The opportunities are there, the rest is left up to us and to coming years’ foreign students.

Finn Peter Skagestad
Richardson Scholar
Davidson College

ROTC Logic Riles Chandler

To The Editor:

Mr. Uamil has clearly stated his defense of required and voluntary ROTC in his letter in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. I think his defense is sincere, but I cannot accept it.

Davidson Provides Few

ED. NOTE: This is the last of three articles by people who are leaving Davidson. The writer this week is presently completing his freshman year.

By JOHN WALTER

I am leaving Davidson College at the end of this school year, and I have more than once been questioned as to the reasons behind my decision. Indeed, a highly qualified faculty, a favorable student-to-faculty ratio, an impressive record of alumni achievements, and a friendly atmosphere seem to qualify Davidson College as the ideal liberal arts institution. However, the question which lies at the heart of my decision to leave is whether the college adequately prepares a student for the not-so-ideal world which he must face immediately after graduation.

One factor to Davidson's credit is that there is little threat of interference in one’s academic pursuits. The student who knows what he wants from life and what he expects to put into itdoes find himself in an ideal situation. He is limited here, then, only by his personal motivation. Yet, what happens to the average student who has not yet formulated his own set of values and his future plans? An institution should offer more than an academic education. Davidson's stated goal is to “develop men of humane instincts.” However, if I were to graduate with such an attitude, I would want to know why or how. Davidson, for me, has not provided the answers. For example, an education should offer the student a personal (not merely academic or historical) understanding of the religion that was thrown at him long ago. I do not feel that I could even begin to cultivate this understanding at an institution so isolated from a representative humanity. This aspect of education cannot be found in the classroom, nor on a plot of land inhabited by one thousand males of similar backgrounds. My solution to this problem, although I may prove myself wrong, is the well-known “education factory,” Ohio State University, a city of 42,000 students representing countless backgrounds, is my choice. Granted that each student is treated as a number by the administration and that many of these numbers perish without ever being noticed, but the university promises a diversity and insecurity that the mature student needs. It provides an atmosphere that can be as stimulating as it is depressing. True, there isn't the friendly atmosphere and one may feel overwhelmed by humanity, but is this not characteristic of life? Is it not better to experience this insecurity now, so that with a true education—real-world as well as academic—we can more realistically seek the answers we all look for? I believe this course of action makes more sense, and therefore I have chosen the ‘education factory’ over the ‘ideal’ liberal arts college. Let me say, in conclusion, that I do not regret at all my year at Davidson, for it has helped me bring into sharper focus my life’s goals and the manner in which I hope to achieve them. Furthermore, I do not intend this letter as a recommendation to other students, for as I have said previously, the man who knows where he is headed is limited at Davidson only by his own abilities. For those individuals, Davidson is the ideal institution. For me, however, only the broader horizons of a diversified education, an atmosphere of varied experiences and personalities, will suffice.

“The Army is based on the rule of law,” Mr. Hamil says. This is not true. The Army is based on the rule of rank: that is, soldiers obey the orders of their official superiors and order their official inferiors. There are few exceptions to this rule. Mr. Hamil's logic is as faulty as most of his premises. “I think one’s attendance in ROTC can help crystallize such important ideas as the use of force in the solution of problems.” I suppose he would argue that every underclassman at Davidson should spend one day a week in the county jail to help crystallize his ideas about the prison system and the morality of solitary confinement and hard labor. Mr. Hamil has not shown the place of ROTC in a liberal arts college and he has not countered the arguments of the ROTC program's critics. But he has brought up the best argument I have ever found for abolishing the ROTC program at Davidson: “... most of those entering it (ROTC) are attempting to escape something.” It disgusts me to think that Davidson College can sponsor a program whose primary appeal to the student body is taking the easy way out.

Dick Chandler, ‘69
Davidson College

Scholarship No-Car Rule Lampooned By Simmons

To The Editor:

It is becoming increasingly apparent that students on scholarship will not be able to have a car on campus next year. Not being on scholarship myself, I feel that I can offer an objective appraisal of this situation. I fully agree with the scholarship committee's decision, in fact, I think that they should go further. I believe that students on scholarship should be required to buy clothes from J. C. Penney’s or Sears Bargain Basement. They should be given a strictly regulated allowance by the college to spend on luxuries such as soap, toothpaste, records, stamps, etc., etc. I have learned that the scholarship committee is considering alternate methods of transportation for scholarship students. Realizing that there are those who will always oppose any vigorous, creative venture like this I would like to make several alternate solutions myself: 1) a subway could be installed from Davidson to Queens with scholarship students getting reduced rates. Perhaps our token Negro could be the driver. 2) a moving sidewalk from Davidson to Queens—perhaps a little more expensive but more scenic. 3) a boycott of Hood Norton's Barber Shop. When the rednecks from Charlotte (Hurt’s Rent-A-Rube) come to support Hood, our scholarship boys will have more opportunities to hitch-hike rides into Charlotte.

Greg Simmons ‘69
Davidson College

Says German

To The Editor:

“Agreeing with Skagestad, he (Dr. Kelton) said that academic requirements for a Richardson Scholar are flexible.” (From: “Foreign Students To Give Suggestions In Assembly.” THE DAVIDSONIAN, Friday, May 10, 1968). I can only agree with Dr. Kelton and Finn Peter Skagestad if I explicate the terms ‘academic’ and ‘flexible’ in a certain way. It is true that a Richardson Scholar has to fulfill only two requirements when he selects his courses. We had to take four courses per semester: one of the altogether eight classes had to have some relationship with American history, politics or culture. Having met these requirements we could practically choose among all the courses offered. But the Richardson Scholar is nevertheless academically confined. His academic background is very different from that of his classmates, and his academic future will also be another. To him ‘academic’ means fitting somehow advantageously into his own education. What is academic to the American Davidson student is not necessarily academic for him. Davidson College is a good school. For some there might even be evidence that it is hard to improve the college for the American student, but I think it is easy to improve Davidson for the foreign student. Only this, I think, can make the academic (in the student's sense) really flexible. Being in a foreign country and having conversations with a type of people one has never met before is bound to awake new interests, interests that make one want to read material which will be assigned in no course. If ‘academic’ means “that which furthers education,” he has been confined more than necessary. The system was less flexible than possible. A pass/fail scheme will do. Two graded courses will also do. Why no auditing of courses with checking of attendance? This way, I feel, the Richardson Scholar is also academically better off. For those who want to continue their education in the United States and will be able to transfer their grades no change is necessary, of course. I would like to add that this is by no means a personal complaint. I was lucky to find professors who kindly made it possible for me to combine at least to some extent classwork with what I felt I should do for my future academic career. But those were personal arrangements. Why not take and extend the philosophy behind these and make it the official policy?

Eckhard Grimm
Richardson Scholar
Davidson College

Associate Editor

The Passing Of An Era

When the last teary-eyed senior leaves the stage at graduation, Davidson College will have lost more than another class. It will have seen the close of an era. Fewer than half the student body can remember the days of compulsory vespers and the Sunday night rush to Mary’s, the days when chapel was really held three days a week, when fraternities really controlled the social life of Davidson. And, of course, the college is losing more than this: an able and respected president, other members of the administration, the old calendar and curriculum. But the change is deeper than this. It involves a change in attitude and perspective on life. During the 1964 election, the student body here held a mock election. The winner? Barry Goldwater. Then a few weeks ago, Time Magazine held its nationwide mock election. And the winner at Davidson? Eugene McCarthy. What was even more amazing was the results in the voting by issues. An overwhelming percentage favored de-escalation in Vietnam. Only a handful (41) favored riot control as the primary solution of the urban crisis. The wonder in all this is whether or not this change of heart is genuine. Are Davidson students really more liberal, or have they decided that liberalism is now the vogue? I don’t think so. The success of the boycott, I believe, proved this. When Davidson students actually went out of their way to avoid patronizing Ralph Johnson, they demonstrated that they were honest in their convictions. Davidson has truly seen the passing of an era.