) Look into our — _ jealous of you.

A Message For Midwinters

Here it is again. Another Midwinters dance weekend and I'm away from Davidson with the basketball team. This makes three years in a row. This year it's George Washington in the nation’s capital. You know GW, the team which has won only one game this year and that was against Montana. I wonder how good Montana must be.

It's not that I have anything against Washington, but Midwinters is one of the few times at Davidson there are more than ten girls in the whole town. I think the college and the fraternities should lower the basketball players’ social dues because we do miss concerts and parties. Road trips aren’t all the glamour and prestige that many people think they are. They aren’t fun in themselves. As Lefty said at the beginning of the season, “Everything is strictly business on the road.” In some ways the whole basketball season seems like business to me. Sometimes I think Lefty would have an easier time recruiting if he would put up posters in high schools around the country saying, “Play for the Davidson Basketball Team, See the World!”

Besides traveling to the cities in the immediate area when we play Southern Conference teams, we have been to Milwaukee, New York, New Orleans, Nashville, and other tourist attractions. We always wear our custom-made traveling clothes: the red blazer, black and white houndstooth checked trousers, and, of course, a club tie with little wildcats all over it. The reaction by the public to 14 boys six feet and over, decked out in this attire, is very interesting. A man sitting next to me on the last plane trip to Richmond asked me what instrument I played, and for which band. One small lady thought we were an advertising gimmick for Eastern Air Lines, but most people figure out that we are members of a basketball team. When we tell them we’re from Davidson College, the usual answer is, “That’s nice. Where is it?”

Road trips are about as enjoyable as we make them. We travel first class always, flying to most of the games, staying in the better motels, and eating at the nicer restaurants. But we all know it’s strictly business. We usually have a number of team meetings a day with the remainder of the time spent “knocking around our rooms.” This is Lefty’s favorite saying for confining us to our motel rooms. But if there is time, we do get to walk around the city somewhat or see a movie. Usually, as unbelievable as it might sound, we can’t wait to get back to Davidson.

This Friday or Saturday, when you are watching the concerts, or dancing at the parties, or doing something else enjoyable, don’t envy us. You can bet we're jealous of you.

Swimmers Seek To Pad Streak

Davidson's tank team went after its second consecutive win today in a meet with Emory in the Johnston Gym pool. The ‘Catfish picked up a win last Friday over Appalachian State University 64-40.

“I was somewhat disappointed with the times in that meet, but the team never was in danger of losing the meet,” Coach Tom Stevens said. Mac Davis and Jack Steele led the attack. Davis won the 50 and the 100-yard freestyle. Steele won the 200 and 500 freestyle. Team captain Eddie Beach won the 1000-yard freestyle. Bill Woodson, Doug Stott, and Biff Fine also registered first places in the meet. The Appalachian swim team won only the diving competition.

The team will face VMI next Thursday and then William & Mary next Saturday. These meets will give the ‘Catfish a look at the competition they will face in the Southern Conference meet the first week of March.

At Ford Motor Company, the electric car, computerized teaching machines, and artificial limbs controlled by the brain are much more than hazy visions. And the man who can help us with these and other better ideas has a real future here. If your major is arts, science, or business. If thinking ahead is one of your skills. See your placement office now and make a date to meet the representative from Ford Motor Company. Dates of visitation: February 21, 1968.

Custom Sport

You're looking at the year's sweetest place for Olds 4-4-2. This is the scene: Louvered hood up front. Crisp sculpturing in the rear. Rally Stripe and Wheels available in between.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

BELLOWS DRAWS BEAD ON TARGET

Sophomore shoots number two.

Winless Sharpshooters Aim For Final Matches

The winless Davidson rifle team has four more matches left this season. They lost their last outing to Wofford last Friday on the Davidson range. Sergeant First Class Winzlo G. Hannah, coach of the sharpshooters, explained that a rifle match is scored on the basis of a possible 1500 team points. Six shooters fire for each team. Each participant fires from three positions: standing, kneeling, and prone. Each shooter can score a possible 300 points. The points of the top five shooters on each team are added together. Davidson's loss to Wofford was by a close 1216-1182 score. Hannah said that senior Frank Powell has been the best shooter on the Wildcat team this season. On the Davidson range, Feb. 23, the rifle team will shoot in an effort...To qualify for the 3rd Army Postal Match. Their scores will be sent in to the 3rd Army and compared to the scores of the other schools entered. Then on Feb. 24, the Wildcat team will travel to Spartanburg to participate in the Western Carolina Conference match. After those two matches, Davidson will participate in the Southern Conference match at Fort Lee, Virginia, and the North Carolina State Invitational match in Raleigh.

The Davidsonian
February 16, 1968
Page Five

Cagers Clip Hawks’ Wings
Roll Up Sixth Straight Win

Vicious Wildcat defense kept the St. Joseph's Hawks from ever getting off the ground Wednesday night, as Davidson trimmed the Philadelphia team 66-60. The win was the sixth straight for the ‘Cats. The highly partisan crowd in the renowned Palestra had to watch as Dave Moser performed another beautiful defensive show. The dependable Wildcat held Dan Kelly to nine points, all in the second half. Kelly had been hitting 19 points a ball game. Mike Maloy provided the leadership for the ‘Cat offensive effort, dumping in 19 big points. But equally important, Maloy dragged down 19 rebounds, dominating the boards at both ends of the court. Four Wildcats scored in double figures, as the Davidson offensive attack continues to be well-balanced. St. Joseph's never allowed the ‘Cats to pull away in the game. But with little time remaining and Davidson leading, the Hawks were forced to commit several personal fouls. The Wildcats made good on nearly all these late free throws to provide the winning margin.

GET YOUR EVENING SNACK at the NEW WILDCAT DEN! We specialize in PIZZAS, DELICATESSEN FOOD, and FRIED CHICKEN, with our special APPLE CIDER to wash it down. All of this in the restful atmosphere of the Den!! For those who are unable to come over, we will have dorm delivery, as long as your order is in BEFORE 11 p.m. (There will be only one delivery per night, at first). For dorm delivery, there will be a $0.25 service charge. “SEE YOU AT THE DEN”

The win, coupled with last Saturday's victory over Richmond, 85-67, brings Davidson's overall record to 16-4. In that win Wayne Huckel led the way with 20 points. Jerry Kroll, Rod Knowles, Doug Cook, and Moser all hit in double figures in that contest. The Richmond game was unusual in that it was one of few games this season in which the Wildcats were out-rebounded. The Spiders kept it close in the first half, before the ‘Cats took charge and walked away in the second half. Davidson has only three regular season games remaining on the schedule. The first two of these are important Southern Conference games.

DAVIDSONIAN Needs Reporters

A number of positions are open on THE DAVIDSONIAN sports staff. Any students interested in sports reporting, particularly freshmen, are asked to see Sports Editor Don Sewell, 362 Belk.

Tomorrow the ‘Cats will battle George Washington University in Washington. The game will be carried on television in the Charlotte area, beginning at 1:30. In the first meeting of these teams, the Wildcats trounced the Colonials 107-75. Then next Wednesday Davidson will host a return match with the Richmond Spiders in Johnston Gym. “They have two really fine guards and a strong big man in Wilton Ford,” Driesell said. The season finale will be against Tulane in the Coliseum next Saturday.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

If you don’t agree that business destroys individuality, maybe it’s because you're an individual. There’s certain campus talk that claims individuality is dead in the business world. That big business is a big brother destroying initiative. But freedom of thought and action, when backed with reason and conviction’s courage, will keep and nurture individuality whatever the scene: in the arts, the sciences, and in business. Scoffers to the contrary, the red corpuscles of individuality pay off. No mistake. Encouraging individuality rather than suppressing it is policy in a business like Western Electric—where we make and provide things Bell telephone companies need. Because communications are changing fast, these needs are great and diverse. Being involved with a system that helps keep people in touch, lets doctors send cardiograms across the country for quick analysis, helps transmit news instantly, is demanding. Demanding of individuals. If your ambition is strong and your abilities commensurate, you'll never be truly happy with the status quo. You'll seek ways to change it and—wonderful feeling!—some of them will work. Could be at Western Electric.

Western Electric
MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM