NEWS THE WAY WE'D LIKE TO PRINT IT VOL. I NO. 3 "I'D CRAWL A MILE FOR THIS PAPER" Eager student struggles for his weekly copy. Mingle Made P / (Midwinters Insert) YE DRIBBLESONIAN The News And Editorial Voice Of Sam Boil DRIVELSON COLLEGE, BOONDOCKS, N. C., FEBRUARY 16, 1988 She Mavidsanian February 16, 1968 Page Three SPECIAL MIDWINTERS CONCOCTION NUMBER ONE Last (Sniff) Newspaper Roars Into Dormitories (Staff Photos by Weems) By SAMMY BOYTE Hack Writer The old 1850 press will be bedded down for the last time today when THE DRIBBLESONIAN completes its run. D. Greaser Mahtin, college spokesman, said THE DRIBBLESONIAN will be abolished after its Mid-Winters issue because of the excessive interest it has stirred up on campus. “The campus is losing its cool," Mahtin said, "and the reason is THE DRIBBLESONIAN. Students are just simply getting too interested in what goes on around here. The interest has created a Here's The Big Scoop At College This Week President As Thousands Decline By BOB REID Hack Writer Walter L. Mingle, chairman of the Board of Trustees, announced Friday that he was assuming the presidency of Drivelson College because "nobody else wanted the job." "I guess I'll have to give up my job with the soap company," Mingle said. "I want to devote all my time to being president, and I want to wash away my other commitments." Mingle, 103, had been mentioned as a possible candidate for the presidency but was not considered a primary prospect. Other candidates included Sammy Spinster, president of Many Baldhead College, Irving Schlunk, third floor Watts janitor, Simon Legree, and Peart MacCorny, hot dog salesman. According to Mingle, nearly 5,000 educators were offered the job, but all declined the position. "I just can’t understand it," Mingle said. "We thought we had Spinster sewed up, but he decided to take a job as academic dean at North Mecklenburg High. Legree said the pay was too low, while Schlunk was rejected because he wasn't a Drivelson graduate." "I can assure you that we didn’t leave a stone unturned." Mingle said most of the educators refused to come because of the violence and agitation that has been sweeping the Davidson campus. "One guy had heard we put LSD in the drinking water," Mingle said. "The fear of student riots was so great that one professor decided to remain at the University of Saigon. Another said he would only come if we promised him the use of ROTC troops to quell student disorders. When he heard how cadre officers have been stirring up revolution, he refused to come." Mingle said his first action as president will be to hire C. W. Lacks as Dean of Instruction, with Hattie Morgan as food service director. Girls must be out of the dormitories by 4 a.m. every Blue Fly Report Adopted In Wild Faculty Meeting By F. F. ANDERSON Hack Writer After an all-night meeting during which they adopted an extended fail program, the faculty finally approved the Blue Fly recommendations by a vote of 33-31. The proposals, which must be approved by the Board of Trustees before they take effect, called for a substantial revision in the curriculum and a doubling of the athletic subsidy to the Classics Department. Tom Goodheardt has called a special required meeting of the student corps for every Tuesday for the remainder of the semester to demonstrate solidarity behind the faculty proposals. The extended fail program gives the student government the right to require students who pass exams to take them again until they fail them. This came as a result of the newly-approved SGA Constitution requirement that students participate significantly in the implementation of college policy. Goodheardt said he is prepared to present a bill in protest to the Student Council which he has described as "ultimate ontological disaster to 69 percent of the studentry." Unconfirmed reports hinted that another provision of the new faculty program had renamed the Dean of Students' office the Holy Office, and had abolished the position of Dean of Students in favor of Chief Inquisitor, but the translation of the faculty minutes out of Latin has not been completed. Fraternity Rejection Poses No "Traumatic" Difficulties By THE REV. MR. BOYTE Moral Correspondent He appeared to be even more dismayed at the question than at the food on the tray he set onto the Union cafeteria table. Irving Dull's trite gripes about the food had been interrupted by a question about his not having received any bids during rush. He laughed nervously at the suggestion that he had been rejected by the fraternity system. "No, I wouldn't call it rejection," he said. "I don’t really feel rejected. It’s not exactly what I'd call a traumatic experience, you know." "Things could be worse," he added. "I mean, we might have had limas for supper for the last five times instead of just four." What did he plan to do for Mid-Winters while his old friends were getting their first taste of fraternity parties? "Aw, that’s no problem," he answered. "My hall counselor and I are great friends and so he has already invited me to his fraternity’s parties. But I've got a lot of friends down at Carolina I haven't seen in quite a while, so I thought I'd skip all the confusion here and visit them this weekend." But would he have stayed here if he had pledged a fraternity? "Well, yeah, I guess I would have had to go," he said, "but I probably would not enjoy it." He forked a load of pasty limas into his mouth, then said, "You know I think you anti-Greeks have just got the thing all wrong. So what if I was rejected. I guess I'm just not quite as good as the rest of the people around here."Yet, according to the chief translator, morning and liquor must be kept in suitcases only. Classes will begin by 11 a.m. every morning, he said, and instruction will be carried on in Latin only, "with an occasional Greek phrase here and there."

BOOZE HUNT CLAIMED HEALTH HAZARD

Jimmy Woula, infirmary blood-letter, reported that 187 students have succumbed to asphyxiation in the last month while waiting with breathless anticipation for their weekly copy of the newspaper. Twenty-seven more students, he said, were injured in a rush for the paper last week when it was displayed for sale at the Alumni Office. "I've never seen anything like it since the Union offered free food during exams," Woula said.

A brief survey of the students waiting outside the door of THE DRIBBLESONIAN office revealed a deep sorrow about the abolition of the paper. "I really hate to see it go," said sophomore Chip Davissunn. "I care about what happens around here and THE DRIBBLESONIAN was the best way I had of keeping in touch with events."

Many exciting campaigns had marred THE DRIBBLESONIAN'S otherwise tranquil career. It was always an organ abreast of the times. In 1861, THE DRIBBLESONIAN opposed secession, but finally saw the error of its way and in 1912 urged secession and avoidance of entangling foreign alliances. Past editors displayed a remarkable ability for predicting the future, such as Clarence Dribble, Class of 1913, who proclaimed "Man will never fly."

Under Louis Lessmind, the paper brought down upon its head the collective wrath of the trustees, the alumni, and a small-town Florida newspaper last year. When asked if the Student Council might try to save the paper, Student Council President Tom Goodheardt said, "Well, yes. I just happen to have a mimeographed statement about that here in my pocket." He smiled photogenically and said, "The passing of this noble institution is indeed a great sorrow. However, I do not feel it would be very tactful for the Student Council to pull any type of power play to save the paper." "Individually, I will, however, seek to do everything in my power to get a new rug for the office."

In an official policy statement about the paper's abolition, Editor-in-Chief Sam Boil said, "I don’t know. It must have been somebody else's fault."

Finker Booted For Going Into Student Automobiles
By ROBERT REID
Hack Writer

Davidson security guard Ian Finker was suspended indefinitely by Driveison College this week following charges that he had broken into student cars. In announcing the suspension, Grubber Mess, director of the physical plant, said a student delegation had offered proof that Finker had been breaking into cars for most of his 25-year career at the college. Tom Goodheardt, delegation spokesman, said he himself had seen Finker rummaging through cars after dark. "I even saw him checking glove compartments," Goodheardt said.

In a press conference held in the Rare Book Room of the Drivelson library, Finker told reporters that he had been searching for items which the faculty had ruled to be "detrimental" to Drivelson life, such as liquor, and subversive literature such as "Quotations from Chairman Mao." Mint juleps and the "Life and Times of Senator Bilbo" were excepted, Finker said. The faculty denied his claim, however. "I didn’t do nothing," Finker said, "that any other red-blooded American citizen wouldn't have done. I followed orders. It was my duty."

Action stemmed from charges that Finker had broken into a car parked near the library following a dance weekend. Witnesses said they saw Finker crawl into the front seat and remain there for several minutes. When the owner returned, the glove compartment had been opened and the contents were strewn around the car. Finker claimed that he had been searching the car for liquor and that he had found a bottle in the glove compartment. The owner then charged that Finker was not in possession of a search warrant at the time of the search. There was no external evidence to suggest the presence of liquor in the car, he added. Conviction of the owner for possession of liquor led to the formation of Students To Insist on Rights (STIR), which compiled evidence and presented the evidence.

Frosh Council To Rat Bounty Hunt
By BOBBY REID
Staffer

The Freshman Council announced this week that it will pay a bounty of 50 cents for each rat killed in the freshman dorms next week. The council also said it would award a hot dog to whoever presents the largest kill. "We plan to conduct this bounty on the honor system," said Little Stevie Wonder, council president. "Each person presenting a rat must swear on his honor that he neither gave nor received aid in its capture."

The council said it had planned to conduct this search last semester, but since upperclassmen were not allowed in the freshmen dorms after 7 p.m. it was felt that some of the best rat experts on campus would be denied the chance to participate. "The IFC (Interdormitory Fungus Control) was opposed to opening the dorms earlier because the rat population was not large enough to give the hunt an element of sport," Stevie said.

The rats are of the Norwegian brown rat family, which is commonly found in such slum areas as Harlem, South Chicago, and Watts. They usually breed and thrive in areas of filth and decay, such as the freshmen dorms.