SPORTS DESK By BOB DUNHAM

SI's Jeopardizing, Journalistic Jinx

A few weeks ago Davidson basketball looked like it was at an all-time high. The whole starting team was coming
back. It was a team which had done well last season, and which looked like it would do even better
this year. The front of the Davidson basketball folder for this year proclaims “Number Eight in ’68; We'll Be Fine
in '69.” But all of this happened before the fatal blow struck... before the web of uncontrollable fate snared the
Davidson team. It happened just over a week ago... when Sports Illustrated pinpointed Davidson College for destruction and announced that
Mike Maloy would be on the cover of the college basketball edition.

Now Coach Lefty Driesell and the Wildcats will have to work on a new defense. The old one simply will
not do. At least this time he is aware of the formidable foe and can perhaps take steps to escape
the impending doom. It indeed sounds absurd that something as small and as flimsy as a magazine could generate such
a destructive force, but numerous examples from the past increase the credibility of the idea.

Take 1964 for example. Most Davidson students remember the fateful encounter with the menacing magazine that year, but the story
is worth repeating. It was the annual basketball issue that year that first attacked Davidson. It was in that issue
that the SI people picked Davidson as the number one team in the nation. It was that night that Davidson
lost to St. Joseph’s in Philadelphia’s Palestra, 77-64. It was the next day that copies of Sports Illustrated on the
Davidson campus disappeared into waste cans, fireplaces, and oblivion. What remained, besides the ashes of SI, was bitter memory, a
few harsh words, and a unified request that SI leave us alone the next year.

Sports Illustrated kills with kindness. It did it in 1964 by using every favorable adjective it could find to describe
Davidson and its Wildcats. The article noted how Driesell had removed the Davidson tradition of the moral victory (quoting him
on, “A moral victory is like kissing your sister”), and called the 1964 Wildcats the “fastest, fairest band of educated
ruffians around.” Driesell came out with another quote the next day, after the fall at the hands of the St.
Jo squad. He said Davidson lost because it was “out-shot, out-rebounded, out-hustled and out-everythinged.” But the fans knew better. They
knew that Hetzel, Snyder, Teague, Davidson, and Marcon did not lose to the Hawks. They saw it immediately as a
case of the SI kiss of death.

Fortunately, the antidote was found quickly, and Davidson rebounded in its next game with a 113-82 humiliation of Furman, with
Hetzel flipping in 53 points. Davidson escaped the jinx after the initial shock fairly well that year. Other teams have
not done as well. Hanratty and Seymour were never quite the same after the SI feature on Notre Dame, and
the 1964-65 Florida team lost two big ones immediately after the Sports Illustrated story on the team’s potential. Last year,
SI talked about Niagara’s slow start and how the Calvin Murphians should have done well for the remainder of the
season. They didn’t.

So when it was announced that Maloy was going to grace the cover of this year’s basketball issue, there arose
a unified groan from all segments of the Davidson campus. There was talk of the jinx. There was mention of
all of the evil things which might happen to Maloy the day after the issue reaches the newsstands. And then
there was a second thought. Also on the cover will be Charlie Scott (you remember Charlie), of Carolina and talented
Mike Casey of Kentucky. The article tied to the cover supposedly will deal with the rising basketball prominence in the
South. The New York-based magazine apparently is launching its own assault on the rise of the new South. It is
such a shame that they have to ruin such great potential.

At least this year, Davidson doesn’t play St. Jo on the night the b-ball issue comes out. But the Wildcats
do play Vanderbilt during the same week, and Vandy, being tough, can win with the help of SI. Lefty would
be wise to take precautions. He could ask SI to print only two-thirds of its cover that week. He could
ask the Davidson Court of Appeals to issue a restraining order against the printing of the magazine. And if these
fail, at least he could ask all of the stores (“all of the” sounds better than “the three”) in town
to keep that issue of SI off the stands. Somehow the jinx must be averted. And the jinx seems to
be coming unless some action is taken. SI can’t pick us as number one this year. But destroy our season
by generosity in column inches they can.

So pray. Cross your fingers. Find a four-leaf clover (they can be found at full moon in front of Dana
Science Building). Do anything possible for good luck. The jinx must be averted at all cost. We made the mistake
of impressing SI this year. Maybe next year we can keep the team’s greatness hush-hush. After all, ignorance is bliss...
especially if SI does the ignoring.

LEFTY ... “not again!”

Subsidation Nemesis Hampers Harriers

By DON PARMAN Sports Writer

The Davidson cross country team ended a disappointing season with a last place finish in the Southern Conference meet Monday
at East Carolina. The order of finish was as expected with William and Mary, the heavy favorite, winning the championship,
followed by East Carolina, Furman, Richmond, VMI, and Davidson. Earlier Wildcat coach Heath Whittle had been confident of beating Richmond
and hopeful of upsetting VMI, but the old nemesis of the Wildcat harriers, the subsidized runner, struck again. Richmond had
one subsidized runner who finished third in the meet and that wiped out any Davidson chance to topple the Spiders.

Whittle termed the meet a “fine race on a very good course." George Davis of ECU took first place with
a record time of 25:52.4, improving the former mark by 33.6 seconds. Leading the way for the Wildcats was freshman
Chris Sikes who ran “a beautiful race” according to Whittle. Randy Phillips, senior captain of the team, took second, while
Roger Clark ran his best race of the year for third. The team continued to show improvement in the final
meet of the season. The times at the five-mile mark of the 5.3-mile course were the fastest of the year
for the Wildcats. Commenting on the 4-7 record amassed...

Injury Plagues Booters

BY A. W. TURNER JR. Sports Writer

Due to this week's snow, Davidson's soccer team goes into today’s game against North Carolina State with one less game's
experience and one less starting player. The game with Appalachian Tuesday was canceled, but the two teams will play here
next year instead of at Boone. A much more serious problem is the loss of junior wing Roger Peterson. During
the Monday night snowfall, Peterson slipped on the icy grillwork in front of Belk. He was taken to a hospital
with a badly-gashed right leg, which took over 50 stitches to sew back together. Peterson started at right wing for
the ‘Cats and, according to coach Harry Fogleman, made over a dozen assists by crossing the ball in front of
the net, thereby allowing the insides and forwards to score. He is credited with almost half the team's assists.

Fogleman was undecided on who would start in place of Peterson. He said either freshman Brian Tarr or junior Randy
Carter would probably fill the gap. The team meets State a week after its last game with Emory, which ended
in an impressive 2-2 tie. In that contest Davidson played one of its best games of the year, dominating play
throughout most of the game. Carter and Cam McNair scored for the ‘Cats. Davidson's record going into today’s game is
4-5-2.By the team, Whittle said the team was not as strong as it had been in the past. He confidently
predicted a better season next year with the return of last year's top runner, John Puckett, who is spending his
junior year abroad. He also pointed to the experience gained by the underclassmen this year and the performance of Stagg
Newman. Newman led the team in most of the meets this year and “improved much more than we had expected,”
Whittle said. Despite the inevitable losses at the hands of the subsidized teams on the schedule, Whittle emphatically rejected the
idea that Davidson teams will be subsidized. “I couldn't see giving scholarships to one or two boys unless we could
give aid to all the boys. They all work just as hard as a subsidized runner would and deserve the
aid just as much.”

The cross country runners have a short break until the beginning of the indoor track season after Thanksgiving.

Wildcats Tackle Wofford

One of the largest defensive lines of the year faces Davidson’s Wildcats tomorrow when the team travels to Spartanburg to
meet the Terriers of Wofford College. Led by tough defensive end Bruce Johnson, the Wofford line averages 6'2", 205 pounds.
Wildcat assistant coach Bob Brown said the line, which gave minor college power Lenoir Rhyne a tough time, is “one
of the best Davidson will face all season.” Wofford will also bring a potent offense into the game, led by
senior Ted Phelps and junior Larry Forgacs. Being in the NAIA, Wofford can allow freshmen to play varsity ball, and
Phelps has carried from the Terrier backfield for over 3,000 yards in his four years of varsity play. Ken Hill
will replace the injured John Zaharov at halfback for Davidson, and injured end Mike Kelly will see limited action. Davidson
has led, 23-7-1, the series.

The Davidsonian, November 15, 1968 Page Five

Wildcat defenders swarmed over the VMI ball carrier on this play, but their efforts were not quite enough to win.
The Keydets defeated Davidson, 21-17, in the rain-soaked contest last Saturday when they scored on the last play of the
game on a 6-yard pass. (Staff photo by Lyle).

McEver’s Freshmen Meet Furman Here

By STEVE WILLIAMS
Sports Writer

The Davidson Wildkittens meet Furman’s Baby Paladins this afternoon on Richardson Field in the team’s season finale. The team is
looking for a .500 season today, standing 3-2-1 going into the game. Once again Davidson will rely mainly on the
passing of quarterbacks Ricky Kimmerlin and Rick Pipan, and the receiving of Greg Sykes and Pinckney McIlwain to dominate play.

The Wildkittens deadlocked the freshmen of The Citadel in their last game by a score of 13-13. The game proved
to be a dead-heat right down to the finish. With the score tied at 7-7, The Citadel drew first blood
in the final quarter to take a 13-7 lead. Yet the Wildkittens fought back with another scoring drive late in
the quarter for the tie. In the fading seconds of the period, quarterback Kimmerlin fired a 17-yard touchdown pass to
end McIlwain to tie the score. The Citadel salvaged a tie by blocking the extra-point attempt. In this near victory,
the Wildkittens almost won their toughest game of the 1968 grid season. After being idle last week, the freshmen will
play the Furman yearlings at 2 p.m. today. Coach Gene McEver looks for the Furman squad to be a tough
challenge but commented that the Wildkittens should be able to win.

IMAC STANDINGS (Flickerball and Golf)
1. Kappa Sigs 240
2. SAE’s 197.1
3. Phi Delts 194
4. Pikas 190.7
5. Sigma Nus 183.7
6. Sigma Chis 176.7
7. Betas 171.5
8. KA’s 149.6
9. ATO’s 133.5
10. Phi Gamms 129.2
11. Sig Eps 125.2
12. Indies 104.3
13. Pi Kapps 96

Impressive Independent Massacre: An Analysis

A REVIEW BY POPULAR DEMAND
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

In a colorful if not quite crucial flickerball encounter, the Independents won their first game ever as they locked the
Pi Kapps in the cellar with a smashing 31-6 victory last Wednesday. The game was largely a matter of determining
which team could be the least inept. As the score indicates, the Indies were more successful in that endeavor than
the Pi Kapps. The game was characterized by some of those once-in-a-lifetime plays that a sportswriter relishes. Picture these plays:
‘Aristotle’ Anderson intercepted a pass and promptly fell down; Bill Funderburk lost 36 yards on one play when he tried
to escape the rusher by running toward his own goal line; Bob Peele punted the ball five yards from scrimmage
and got a backward roll; and those pictures of physical fitness, Harvey Jackson and Sam Bell, actually scored touchdowns. But
the most unforgettable plays came on the Indies' first touchdown drive. On the first of these plays, Bob Peele was
sprinting wide open toward the end zone and dropped the ball. The real classic play came on the next down
when Peele ran the exact same play but managed to hold on to the ball and scored. That play was
the big tipoff on the ability of the Pi Kapp defense to adjust.

Sideline comments were almost as colorful as the plays. Indie coach Luther Moore was heard yelling encouragement to his team.
“All right, John. You know what to do.” He then muttered, “Well, I guess I'm not really sure whether he
knows what to do or not.” After the Pi Kapps had dropped two passes in the end zone, one of
the players lamented, “We've got a bad case of hands today.” More correctly, it was a case of lack of
hands. All in all, a colorful experience.

Sporttopics

The Davidson sailing team moved into the finals of the South Atlantic Sailing Association team racing championship last week after
gliding to an easy win over William and Mary. The team meets highly favored Citadel tomorrow in Columbia, S.C. Davidson
skippers Jim Lee, Bob Haggard, and Dan Johnston took only three races to determine the best-of-five meet.

Woody Faulk, a New Orleans senior, was unanimously elected captain of the 1969 Wildcat tennis team by his teammates this
week.

Freshman Zack Mobley and Richardson Scholar Peter Lunn are organizing a rugby team for intercollegiate competition next spring. Anyone interested,
experienced or not, is urged to see either Mobley, in East 108, or Lunn, in Richardson 112.

Three new flags adorn the north end of Johnston Gym. The flags proclaim Davidson basketball's presence in the top ten
of the nation for the years 1964, 1965, and 1968.

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request
MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N.C.
Closed All Day Wednesday
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub

Her Christmas Star is a Diamond!
Pearl and Diamonds $50
A diamond is a truly heavenly gift because it radiates with all of the glow of the evening star. Give
her a diamond from our collection... all priced for value.
Jewelers of Trusted Reputation
Mooresville, N.C.

“Coca-Cola” and “Coke” are registered trademarks which identify only the product of The Coca-Cola Company.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
Concord, N.C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

What did you say about our little sister?
