The Davidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL-VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY
Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1968

PAGE TWO

In Defense Of Liberty

The question of compulsory ROTC is up for consideration again. The faculty had it under study at its meeting this afternoon, and the trustees will probably get it again when they meet here next weekend. We only hope that both groups will see fit to go along with what the Blue Sky Committee has asked, and drop required ROTC from the new curriculum.

Some of those who want the change base their conviction on a belief that war is immoral and that a compulsory program only lends support to the militarism that is already too much a part of our society. A larger number rightfully argue that required ROTC restricts freedom in course selection, especially now that a student is limited to eight courses per year anyway. Neither argument, however, is so compelling as that offered by the Blue Sky Committee. The argument, quite simply, is that ROTC has no place in a liberal arts curriculum. Though a useful subject, military science does not contribute to the liberalization of the mind. It does not produce more humane attitudes in young men. It does not broaden their perspective, nor does it prompt them to seek knowledge purely for the sake of learning.

The motto of this institution was purportedly written by a French field marshal: “Let learning be cherished where liberty has arisen.” That liberty must continue to be protected is an unfortunate fact of life in our world and will be as long as there are those who continue to violate it. But to confuse our duty of protecting liberty with our charge to continue to cherish learning is a mistake which need not be made. ROTC has been, and can continue to be, a valuable asset to this institution. Its “good deals” cannot be denied. But neither can it be denied that its subject matter is outside the liberal arts spectrum. If we truly cherish learning, we cannot tolerate the compulsory status of the program or the academic credit which goes with it. The defense of liberty will not suffer if ROTC is placed on a voluntary basis; the commitment of this institution to providing a liberal education will certainly be strengthened.

The Faculty’s New Role

A couple of remarks made by faculty members last week in a meeting called to deal with the town’s civil rights progress, or lack of it, indicate that at least some professors are taking a somewhat less than open-minded attitude about the barber shop boycott and other student efforts to erase the town’s double standard. The purpose of the meeting was to consider a student-proposed resolution to integrate all town facilities, and before the faculty finally passed a watered-down version of it, some of its members made it pretty hot for the student leaders invited to attend.

One professor, for instance, sarcastically asked a senior if the boycott would be the last cause he would “champion” as a student here. Another pointed out that most students are here for only four years, while “the rest of us have to live here.” Neither point was particularly well put by the faculty members. If there is anything Davidson needs, it is more champions of worthy causes. There are already too many problems here and too few leaders to solve them. Nor is a professor’s extended residence here any excuse for backing away from the problems. Instead, he should be doubly concerned about them, and more prone to action. One of the hardest lessons people have to learn is that just because something has been done a certain way before, it doesn’t have to remain that way.

The faculty can be a key influence in this regard. Our professors are our most important sources of academic knowledge, and there is no reason for this enlightenment to be limited to the classroom. There are lessons to be learned outside the ivory tower, too, lessons which the faculty should be, but is not, teaching us.

Is There No Justice?

Before the Mecklenburg County police make another arrest in Davidson, they should buy a good dictionary and check the meaning of a few terms—like justice and order, for instance. When Lew Homer was told he got a “continuation of his trial” yesterday, it sounded like a good thing. Fat chance! It simply means his trial has been postponed until the middle of exams and an additional charge of assaulting an officer has been added to the other charge of disturbing the peace.

Everyone knows that the Davidson students who picketed Johnson's Barber Shop and the policemen who arrested Homer disagree about racial integration of the barber shop. But this discrepancy of beliefs is no reason to make a scapegoat out of a Davidson student—to make him suffer mentally, academically and monetarily and to leave a permanent scar upon him and his family. The students who picketed the barber shop were not breaking the law. And from all the sources we've consulted, neither was Lew Homer. If the police want to claim that he was creating an inflammatory situation, they can only blame themselves, for they added the flames.

The time for redefinition of terms has arrived. If the Mecklenburg police are going to enforce the law, they must first understand what it is. If Homer is convicted, it will be a complete miscarriage of justice. And they can reasonably assume that the Davidson students will again assert their constitutional rights, this time perhaps more vigorously and in greater number.

The Slumbering Leader

A Southern Presbyterian minister visiting the campus the other day hit on one of the things that is ailing Davidson better than anyone we've heard recently. He was a guest of a contemporary religion class, and some of the students, taking note of the Southern Presbyterians’ conservative racial policy, were giving him a pretty hard time of it. What, they demanded to know, is the church doing about getting more Negro members? The minister could only shrug and point to some not-so-very-forceful resolutions, offering the guardedly optimistic opinion that the day for complete integration is coming. Maybe, he said, it will come about the time Davidson is integrated.

The barb struck home, for the embarrassed questioners hastily turned to other matters. The question the minister was raising, by implication, was this: what is Davidson, the South's leading Presbyterian college, doing for the Negro? The answer in his mind, and everybody else’s too, was abundantly clear: practically nothing. It shouldn’t take a minister to tell us what ails us, to point out that we are not living up to our obligations, to indicate we are letting opportunities slip by. Because it is obvious that we are.

Other schools are waking up to reality. A survey of 12 leading American colleges and universities in this week’s ‘Newsweek’ indicates that all but one have this spring increased the number of their Negro acceptances, some significantly. For instance, Amherst, our look-alike up North, has accepted 28 Negroes for a freshman class of 300. Pomona, another school with a comparable size, accepted 15. And Princeton, the so-called Davidson of the North, took 77 Negroes for 810 places—a whopping jump over last year’s acceptance of 23.

Davidson, however, slumbers on, with no signs of awakening. We are not receiving any more Negro applications, and therefore we are not accepting any more. And worst of all, we are not doing anything about it. When Rip Van Winkle finally woke up, he eventually eased his way back into society. Davidson may not be so lucky.

The Registration Deluge

To All Davidson College Students:

Enclosed you will find one Davidson three 4"x6" cards, one each for the Registrar, the Library, and the Business Office. The former two are self-explanatory. On the Business Office card, only one side is to be completed. Please fill in as much information as you can, either by typing or printing. The Registrar’s Office is attempting to save you time and effort in your record-seeking efforts. Please cooperate with us by completing the cards promptly and accurately, and returning them to the Registrar’s Office along with your other registration forms.

The enclosed Business Office card will be used to mail bills in advance of each term. To estimate your costs for next year, please refer to the enclosed three-term arrangement, or portion thereof.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Circularity

Concentric circles. We exist as a part of several different concentric circles. First, the mass, call it Society. Then Davidson, the

LETTERS

Senior Binds Reid To ‘Whipping Post’

To The Editor:

I think the title of Bob Reid's column, ‘Whipping Post,’ is most appropriate, because years ago it was at the whipping post that individuals were humiliated in public. Such punishment has long since been stopped on the grounds that it is “cruel and unusual.” Last week's column, “Will Chambers Become Lingle Manor?”, did, I feel, border on the cruel and unusual. In articles which deal with opinion based on facts, such as last week's column was supposedly based upon, it is imperative that the writer be very certain that his facts are correct. Freedom of opinion is necessary, but when that opinion is based on poorly researched information, great injustice and hurt can be the result. In his columnMr. Reid asked the question, "Will Mr. Lingle follow the steps of his father who, while chairman of the board in 1929, appointed himself president to succeed another President Martin?" Of the many things in the article with which I disagreed, this sentence contained perhaps the most grossly irresponsible misrepresentation of the facts. Nothing could be more incorrect than to say that Walter Lingle Sr. appointed himself president. In his book, "Memories of Davidson," Mr. Lingle describes his selection as president as "unexpected and a bit unusual." When President William Joseph Martin stepped down in 1929, the Board of Trustees appointed its chairman, Walter Lingle, to chair a committee to nominate a new president. Forty-six names were submitted, of which Mr. Lingle’s was one. Because of his advanced age (61), Chairman Lingle would not allow his name on the list. At the nominating meeting in April 1929, Mr. Lingle was asked by his own committee to accept the nomination for the presidency, but he refused on the grounds of age and other reasons. In spite of his refusal and his insistence that he was "greatly embarrassed," the nominating committee asked him to resign as chairman and to reconsider for a week. The following week he again refused, and it was sometime later when he reluctantly accepted the nomination. Although most of this information came from Mr. Lingle’s book, other reliable sources have confirmed these facts and the sequence of events. In view of these facts, the great injustice done to the former president is painfully obvious. Almost equally bad is the implication in the same sentence that Walter Lingle Jr., the present board chairman, might use his position on the board and nominating committee to get himself appointed president. Not only does Mr. Reid seem to be bringing to question a man's motivation, but also his character. And based on what? In view of Mr. Lingle’s present position as executive vice-president of Proctor and Gamble, one of the nation’s largest corporations, and the many days of company and personal time spent on Davidson’s problems, I hope Mr. Reid will agree that there is far more sacrifice than gain in his present position with Davidson. We can all disagree with some of the decisions of the board and of Mr. Lingle, but to imply personal motivation on his part is entirely out of reason. Mr. Reid's "Whipping Post" has indeed dealt cruel and unusual punishment to a family dedicated to Davidson for many decades. In the same article, Mr. Reid stated that once the student advisory committee had submitted its list of names to Mr. Lingle’s committee, they were never consulted or even informed concerning the progress of the selection process. Again, Associate Editor Reid has missed the boat. The student committee has consulted with trustees concerning those names submitted by students and has been asked about student opinion in a number of areas. Although each member would like to see more use made of it in the future, to say that the committee hasn’t been used is entirely incorrect. Although there are other things in the "Whipping Post" with which I could quibble, I think that my point has been made. The privilege of journalistic commentary carries with it the responsibility to blend opinion and speculation with well-researched facts. I hope that in the future Mr. Reid will assume this responsibility.

Tom Earnhardt, ’68
Davidson College

To The Editor:

In writing this letter, I should first like to make public my congratulations to Bobby Lane and the other students who have miraculously replaced the lull in effective student discussion, which has been an established part of THE DAVIDSONIAN during this year, with the debate of the issue of the student boycott. Town, as a sociological grouping. Then the college within the town. And academic sub-circles within the college. Then social circles. Neat groupings of people, with various name-tags. And still smaller social circles—a student's circle of close friends, a clique that he gathers around him. Then the smallest circle, the “I,” the egg. Davidson stresses smallness. Here the small circles, not the large, are most important, sometimes to the exclusion of any considerations other than self, social and academic circles, and the circle that is a small Southern college. Take the circles in the reverse order, the Davidson order, from the smallest circle of concern to the largest circle of concern. We are all self-oriented, sometimes so self-centered that we ride rough-shod over the feelings and rights of everyone around us. We get bogged down in the morass of narrow social circles. It’s the same people within the same narrow social structure, the same friends, every day, every week, every weekend. Academically, the problem is not so much a narrowness of subject matter, but a narrowness and sameness of format and concern. Far too many professors are more concerned with the threads within the fabric than they are with broad patterns of the fabric of learning itself. Students reflect and perpetuate this attitude. The question is not “what am I learning or what have I learned?” but “what grade did you get?” Davidson College is a circle continually doubling on itself, inbred and inbreeding. Perhaps the real purpose of Davidson is to train men who will teach here, who will serve on the boards of Trustees and Visitors, who will go out and encourage able, white, Protestant young men of the next generation to come here to school. Davidson is an incestuous institution. There are signs of some revitalization, a concern for larger circles. For instance, the Blue Sky report and curriculum. Sections of the CRAP report. The barbershop boycott. The concern for a more diverse student body. Even with these manifestations of change, Davidson students are still too self-concerned, and the college has encased itself within confines that are too narrow. Davidson College and Davidson students and graduates have been damned good at maintaining the status quo, the perpetuation of the existing small circles of limited concern. We have something to expiate: a pettiness.

Guest: Activists Add Luster To A College, Student Body

But it is indeed sad to think that such students who picket and take part in the Peace Vigil must not only fight the prejudices of a Southern public but must also withstand the attacks of those who would claim that the social work of these students is destroying the "Davidson image." To try to refute such an argument hardly merits one's time and effort since the author of "Davidson Not a Berkeley" (THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 12) defends his position in such nebulous terms as "our priceless heritage" and "traditional Davidson education" and enhances the authority of his argument with "the maturity of a college graduate." It appears that the issue here is the question as to what constitutes an educational atmosphere. And somehow I have the feeling that education involves being exposed to new and different ideas requiring the application of a discipline bred of academicism in the form of a critical approach, on the part of the student, as to their theoretical and practical value. It is my belief that Davidson is an institution of higher learning dedicated to the liberal education of its students. For me, this is what makes Davidson great. And the role of students who are aware of and active in the issues of their society adds luster to a college and student body who together must realize the contribution they can make to society.

H. Stanley Guest, ‘68
Davidson College

Go On Warpath, Urge Scholarship For Indians

To The Editor:

It appears to us that while much of the Davidson College campus is intent on raising a scholarship fund, our entire recruiting or "make Davidson more cosmopolitan" policy should be analyzed. One outstanding shortcoming which comes to mind is Davidson's lack of enrolling American Indians. This is certainly not due to any prejudice within the Admissions Office but more likely because these true Americans simply have not been attracted to Davidson and have not been sought after by students or college officials. We believe that not only should consideration be given to these people but that an extensive effort be made to bring qualified Indians to Davidson. In doing this, we, at this college, would at least feel as though we had not completely ignored the descendants of the first Americans. The diversity which would be brought would also add to, or perhaps create, a more "university-type" atmosphere at this school. In an attempt therefore, to create interest in this idea we are prepared to add 100 dollars to a sum of $3,000 raised by any group of students here. This money would, of course, go to a scholarship to help an American Indian attend Davidson.

Andrew Pickens, ‘71
Jerry Dean, ‘71
Hunter Dalton, ‘71
Keith Onsdorff, ’71
Keith Wolf, ‘71
Davidson College

IN THE BEGINNING, I TOLD THEM THE CLASS WAS OPEN... FREE DISCUSSION AT ALL TIMES... THAT I ENCOURAGED SMART-ASS LONGHAIR BEGAN ASKING SOME QUESTIONS. SO I'M HAVING THEM READ THREE MORE BOOKS. (Cartoon by College Press Service)