**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1968

PAGE TWO

More Hypocrisy

The Student Council (we suppose we have to wait until after elections are held to call it a Senate) and Bill Watson in particular performed a significant service for a few students by arranging Wednesday night’s open meeting with trustee William A. White, Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, and Dean of Students Richard C. Burts. More students could have benefited from this bull session with representatives of two of the institutions that are supposedly suppressing students, but the vast majority of students evidently decided to express their involvement with the school by listening to the basketball game with St. Joseph’s University. Perhaps a few were even studying.

As could be expected, however, all was not sweetness and light. Senior Rick Harrell, emphasizing several times that he was a “reasonable” and “rational” student, asked Burts some very pointed questions about the curfews that limit the hours during which girls are allowed to be in the fraternity houses. The justification cited for the curfews has to be one of the greatest examples of hypocrisy that one could find at this school. Essentially the justification for the curfew is that for the purposes of the college's public relations we need to be able to say that there is a rule in existence designed to keep the students from running around getting into devilment all night long.

By setting the curfew at 5 a.m. Saturday and 3 a.m. Sunday it is claimed that the rule does not interfere with the activities of the student. By that time, the justification claims, the student is ready to get rid of his date for a well-deserved rest in his own bed. Of more importance to us is the hypocrisy involved in claiming one thing about the reason for a rule’s existence, and writing the rule so that it is not intended to do what it is purported to do. Certainly a regulation should be written in such a manner as to make allowances for extenuating circumstances; absolute maxims are notably ineffective and unjust. However, when a rule is not even meant to have the effect claimed for it, it becomes not a merciful regulation, but just a hypocritical lie.

To be fair to the college it should be noted that some attempt was also made to justify the curfews in terms of the in loco parentis doctrine. The primary reason given for the rule, however, was the one of public relations. The curfew rule is itself not our concern at the moment because it appears likely that it will be changed soon. But it was educational for the students attending the open discussion to see such a blatant representation of the college’s hypocrisy.

Later, in discussing another issue, White made the point that a remarkable difference exists between the attitudes of a person while he is a student and those he holds after he graduates. If this is so, then we hope we will be excused as wild-eyed students for desiring honesty on the part of a college that claims a Christian commitment. After we graduate, it will probably be fun to look back at this editorial and laugh at such silliness.

A Brave Stand

Fulfillment and fright are two of the feelings that accompany the event of seeing the actualization of an old myth. For years, activists of all breeds have been satirizing the status quo boys by saying they offer nothing more than a defense of apple pie and mother. Finally, we have seen it in print. “The Christian Science Monitor” yesterday carried a column in which the writer took the forthright position that mothers are essential. We would like ice cream on our pie, please.

Legitimate Concern

Both Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston and trustee William A. White made disturbing statements Wednesday about what they considered to be the proper division of responsibility in college policy making. At the Student Council's open discussion, both said they feel there are certain closed roles for students, faculty, and trustees. They said each of the three should listen to reasonable advice from the other two, but they should not have a vote on each other's committees. Dean Johnston noted that there are exceptions to this general rule, specifically that it is conceivable that students have a direct voice on faculty committees dealing with student affairs, but seemed to concur, however, that as a general rule, students do not deserve voting privileges on faculty or trustee committees simply because the students are students.

Two assumptions seem to undergird the position taken by White and Johnston. The first is that there are college issues that do not concern students. Secondly, the men seem to be saying that the contribution a student makes to policy-making should depend more on the reasonableness of his argument than on the fact that he is a student. Neither assumption can be accepted.

Education of students would seem to be the entire function of this college. That the old “publish or perish” issue has been of little importance here reflects the college’s policy of wanting its professors to be educators instead of academicians. In its policy statement at least, education is broadly interpreted by the college to mean many things, ranging from the memorization of chemical formulae to moral development. By any standard of definition, however, education would seem to include a concern for students. If the entire purpose of the college is education, then anything it does concerns students. This includes not just the selection of texts, but also the way the college pays its bills and the professional merits of its faculty.

The second assumption underlying the position taken by White and Johnston can no more be accepted than could the first. Students should make a particular contribution to policy formulation simply because they are students. It would be extremely difficult to find anyone who would notice or understand student concerns better than a student. It would be ridiculous to maintain that there is anything resembling a united student concern that could be enunciated by a spokesman representing all. However, the understanding a student gets of even opposite student views, simply by virtue of constant association, surpasses that gained by trustees, or members of the faculty and administration. It has been argued that these views should not be given the honor of a vote unless they are not only real but also reasonable. However, it should be noted that the validity or importance of a factor does not depend upon its reasonable statement. It is extremely difficult to give a reasonable presentation of any moral argument, but we would hope that moral issues are not therefore to be ignored.

Faults in the decision-making process at Davidson would seem to stem from the fact that an attempt is made to over-compartmentalize the responsibility. A merging of student, trustee, and faculty committees would seem to be more in order than an attempt to justify limiting their membership.

And Again

We have said it before so we do not want to belabor the point. But in light of the faculty advisory committee’s specifications for President Martin’s replacement, we need to bring it up again. Unless the Presbyterians have a lot more pull up in heaven than we think, they are not going to be able to find a man who can carry out all of the responsibility that has traditionally been given to the president of the college. In other words, and once again, a dual system of leadership is needed in which one has primary responsibility for the academic leadership of the college and the other, primary responsibility for non-academic matters. The two areas cannot and should not be totally separated; the two men will have to work closely with each other. Sharing the job of running the college, however, will make it possible for both areas to be more effectively administered than if one poor soul gets stuck with it all.

“I guess it really isn’t so bad not having a date for the weekend...”

EXAM FEEDBACK?

Dean Rusk Compared To Student

ED. NOTE: On Feb. 3, Walter Grant of CPS, Gordon Yale of the Colorado Daily, Dennis Wilen of the Daily Pennsylvanian and Dan Okrent of the Michigan Daily had a special interview with Secretary of State Dean Rusk. Following is Walter Grant’s account of the interview.

By WALTER GRANT
College Press Service

When Secretary of State Dean Rusk talks about the war in Vietnam, he sounds like a college student who has memorized his professor's notes for feedback on an exam. Rusk reiterates the words of his professor, Lyndon Johnson, and he offers nothing new. If he is asked a question for which he either does not know the answer, or does not want to give it, he again plays the game of the student; he beats around the bush and answers something else. But Rusk has something going for him which the average student does not. He gets to edit his exam after the 50 minutes are up.

Rusk, in an interview last week with CPS and three college editors, discussed the war in Vietnam, the role of the United States in international affairs, the current conflict between the U.S. and North Korea, and how anti-war protests at home give encouragement to the enemy. He said nothing he has not said hundreds of times before. It was impossible to pin him down when he didn't answer a question directly, and if a question which he had ignored was repeated, he merely reiterated the same old clichés which members of the Johnson Administration have been repeating for several years to justify the war. Even so, Rusk reserved the right to censor the text of the interview before it was released to the public. He did edit his remarks, striking out the strongest statement he made.

The State Department took extreme precautions during the interview. A handful of department officials sat in the Secretary’s office, seemingly admiring every sentence he spoke. And the State Department, of course, recorded the interview, refusing to let other tape recorders in the room. When the interview was over, Rusk's aides commented that it was wonderful. “He's an old pro,” one said. “He sure knows how to handle himself.” Another asked, “Isn't he something?”Just marvelous?" Rusk is articulate and dedicated, as he would have to be to hold the office of Secretary of State for seven years. Completely sold on the present U.S. policies in Vietnam and elsewhere, which he certainly was instrumental in developing, Rusk seems to enjoy defending policies, but only as long as the questions are not too pointed. And despite the fact that the United States is still bombing North Vietnam, Rusk insists that the Johnson Administration has done all it can to encourage negotiations to end the war. “We're willing to negotiate, without any conditions whatever. We'll sit down with them, at sundown today, to talk about peace, without anybody doing anything, except sit down at the table and talk. Now they've rejected that,” he said. “Now, the point is that Hanoi has raised a major condition for negotiations,” Rusk said. “They say there will be no talks until we stop the bombing—they usually say permanently and unconditionally." He emphasizes that the United States did not originally propose any conditions, but since Hanoi did, the U.S. found it necessary to propose a counter condition—that North Vietnam not take advantage of the bombing pause. In response to the suggestion that the United States stop the bombing without any conditions to test Hanoi’s sincerity, Rusk said, “It’s wholly irrational." He said stopping the bombing without conditions could endanger the lives of thousands of American soldiers. In the interview, Rusk commented further on the “irrational” suggestion, but these remarks were deleted from the text, and the reporters, who had agreed to abide by the edited transcript, were unable to use it. The Secretary offers little hope that the United States will initiate more moves toward peace. “Now, if everybody assumes that when Hanoi says no, that’s the end of the matter, therefore the United States must move again, that we must somehow take some new position, the end of that trail is simply that we abandon South Vietnam. We're not going to do that.” Rusk indicated that the role of the United States in “protecting” other countries could be almost unlimited. “We have formal alliances with more than 40 countries,” he said. “I would say that, if we are needed for the defense of those countries, we're available, and we'll make good on our commitments to those countries." But he added, “We're not the world’s policemen.” Asked if the Vietnam situation will be a pattern for U.S. involvement in other countries, Rusk said, “You'll have to ask the Communist world, various parts of it, whether they're going to launch this kind of attack against those with whom we're allies. If they do, I would think the answer is yes, we will. If they don't, then we'll have peace, but the answer to that lies with somebody else, not with us.” Rusk referred to the North Korean seizure of the Pueblo as “an outrageous violation of standard international practice." Even if the vessel had not been in international waters—and Rusk insisted that it was—North Korea did not have the right to seize it, he said. (Two days after the interview Rusk and Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara admitted that the Administration could not be sure whether or not the Pueblo violated North Korea's waters.) The Secretary said that the Administration does not see “direct indications that the North Koreans have in mind a large-scale invasion of South Korea.” On the question of dissent at home against the Johnson Administration's policies, Rusk says he has “no problem” with free speech and free assembly, but he emphasizes that the “form of dissent which tries to silence other people is something to which I object very strongly indeed.” Rusk also emphasizes that Hanoi watches the debate in the United States very closely, and “there is no doubt that they are encouraged by the dissent in this country—no doubt about it. Now, that doesn’t mean that you forget the First Amendment and that you try to stop dissent, but those who are expressing dissent ought to be aware of that.” He said he wishes anti-war protesters “would at least try to make it clear what it is they want Hanoi to do to make peace. If they will say that we want Washington to do the following, and we want Hanoi to do the following, that might help.”

Abolish The Council?
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Who thinks the Student Council ought to be abolished? Stand up and be recognized. It is rumored that there may be one candidate for Student Government Association president who will run on such a platform. Who thinks the Student Council is not doing enough for students? Please, don't everybody stand at once. It seems to be a majority. Who doesn't really care one way or the other? Ah, I see there are a few of you also. I guess that's inevitable. This year there has been the usual criticism of the council from several corners. The members have not done enough. What they have done doesn't really affect the students. What they have done is wrong. If we are to approach the question logically, we must step back from the immediate issues and view the problem in a larger context. How much power is really inherent in a student government, especially the one at Davidson? Why should students care about what the student government does? Although some argue that students have gained a little power through placement of students on crucial committees, the council itself as a governing body still has very little power to affect student life. For this reason, students have never generated too much enthusiasm about what it does. Perhaps the council has failed to consider such issues as better exam schedules and chapel policy, which it could perhaps effect, but it could provide the students with such other small things as an extra holiday and more vending machines. It is not within the power of the council to effect any of these things by itself. In each case, some member or committee of the administration had to be contacted before any final action could be taken. So actually, aside from a possible lack of communication between the council and the students, the real fault with the council is inherent in its structure. It is essentially a coordinating medium through which things can be channeled to various places and committees. But the gripes do not end here. Some students claim that things which are financed from the council budget, like the Student Exchange trip to Haverford and to the IMPACT symposium at Vanderbilt, will do the students no good. Agreed, perhaps the students who go should try to put to work at Davidson what they learn, but the role of the council is again as a coordinating medium. Its responsibility is simply to provide the opportunity and the money for students to make such trips. Other students say the council leaves many issues untouched and does not stir up the flames about those it does consider. This is a valid criticism, but it is one which unfortunately results from the apathetic atmosphere which engulfs the campus. Should we abolish the council because it doesn’t do enough? Heavens, no! There is a definite need for the coordinating function provided by the council. It gives valuable experience to council members, although some fill their schedules with so many other activities that they have little time left for council work. It also furnishes opportunities to students off the council to serve on committees and take advantage of things such as IMPACT. Will the new constitution help? That remains to be seen. But it is certain that the situation will not change anytime soon unless students are willing to devote time and responsibility to working with what they are interested in or are willing to take their gripes to council members.

Not So Slick As Darby
By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

As a result of that most peculiar institution known as “rush week,” about 90 percent of the freshman class can now join their elders in the opportunities afforded members of Davidson’s fraternity system. These freshmen can now receive the national magazines for the rest of their lives, go down to “the house” and watch basketball games and flicks on the tube, and most importantly, scoff up on the peanut butter and jelly sandwiches set out after supper. This was the first time I had seen rush from the fraternity member’s side, inasmuch as my capitulation to the system did not occur until last fall. Although my position as a social affiliate means that I’m not in on the mystic goodies, I did participate in the rush meetings and parties. (I use the term “parties” in the loosest sense possible.) These rush meetings are, to say the least, interesting. After careful observation, I have concluded that there are three main qualifications which a prospective pledge must meet in order to receive a bid. First, he must be “a good guy” as evidenced by his avid interest in the fraternity and in his ability to converse with ease and grace. In addition to being a good conversationalist, he must “have a serious side.” Finally, and most importantly, he must be a re-incarnation of somebody already in the fraternity. Actually, the system does seem to be lessening in its exclusiveness. The large percentage of freshmen pledging fraternities indicates among other things that the fraternities are bidding more people than they have in the past. This has its discouraging implications. Last year, only nine hardy souls opted out of going Greek, while this year, the number is even lower. If in fact the system is fading in its exclusiveness (and I think it is), the change is for the better. At present, the institutional consequences will be, I hope, a 100 percent bid system and disaffiliation with national fraternities. Sam Darby can get away with artificially lengthening his column because he’s so slick. In my case, however, I have to fill out the required space with honest, articulate thought. So: Fraternities at Davidson are changing, almost by a natural process, to meet new demands. They are becoming less concerned with mystic brotherhood and becoming primarily social groupings. In such a situation, the traditional arguments against their relevance in forms like 100 percent bidding lose their force.