Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson N. C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1968

Before You Leap

The report of the Five-Year Plan Committee, released last week, should be received by the college with commendations—and some caution.
The committee’s goal of admitting disadvantaged students into a specially designed program is a recognition of the college’s long-ignored duty.
For Davidson can no longer serve its Christian commitment unless it opens its facilities to a wide range of students.
But then again, for Davidson to plunge into such a program without realizing its complexity might well be disastrous. At
least one school has apparently acted without care in this matter, and now it is suffering the consequences.

In an article published this week in The Christian Science Monitor, for instance, a midwest educator said: “We wanted more
black students, so we went out and got them. But, frankly, we didn’t anticipate the challenges. On the academic side,
certainly, we knew remedial work would be required for many of them. This we planned for. But the ramifications of
cultural and socio-economic differences, extreme racial sensitivity . . . and an emerging separatist movement—these we did not anticipate, and
they have compelled a searching re-evaluation of the purpose and direction of our educational policy.”

The article went on to say that while many universities have adjusted to the changes, “liberal arts colleges, which tend
to be smaller and to maintain high standards for admission and graduation, find adjustment difficult.” But the rewards for liberal
arts colleges can be greater than for large universities, too. According to the article, disadvantaged students sometimes resent remedial counseling,
because it singles them out as inferior. Some schools provide no such program. But many of them suffer high attrition
rates. This failure to compete is the one thing a disadvantaged student does not need to gain from his college
experience.

One way to overcome this might be to single out high school students and prepare them for admission before they
finish their secondary education. The University of Rochester has begun such a program, and officials there estimate the cost of
such training for 35 to 50 students will be about $30,000 a year. Also, we wonder how Davidson would adjust
to a large subculture in its midst. Most schools which have admitted large numbers of Negroes have experienced a separatist
movement and many students familiar with this question expect one to develop here. Can a small college like Davidson survive
with a fragmented student body? How long would it take before meaningful communication developed between the groups? Would the groups
merely room side-by-side, or would they eventually really live together in the most meaningful sense of the word?

We salute those with the vision to tackle these problems. But we hope their vision will be sharpened by the
experience of other colleges, and by a realization of Davidson’s nature. This is not Cornell, nor even Antioch. Success there
might not insure success here. Admitting large numbers of minority groups would revolutionize this institution, and would probably add to
its academic stature. But to see what the Davidson of the five-year plan would look like requires a hard look
at the Davidson of the present first.

That Night

Davidson, haunted by the specter of a medieval night watchman strolling the campus, tolling his bell and crying “Twelve o’clock
and all’s well,” maintains a curfew tradition appropriate to far more feudal institutions. The Davidson student has now achieved some
sort of status as a responsible individual, or so we are told by the Code of Responsibility. We are supposed
to be able to take care of ourselves now. But though we may be men of responsibility we are not
paragons of virtue, at least not in the eyes of the administration. Fraternity house curfews are maintained, two couples are
required at all times, and open dorms are restricted. The unspoken reason behind these flights of authoritarian fancy seems to
be administration fear of student fornication on campus—not with each other, of course, but with women visitors. This old myth
deserves to be laid to eternal rest.

The influence of the college on the sexual mores of students is nil. The only influence the college has attempted
to exert in this area is the watchman curfew and open dorm restrictions. If the college is so concerned, it
should seek chapel speakers who actually have something to say on the subject. Davidson will not become a haven of
immorality and licentiousness if the curfew and open dorm restrictions are ended. It would have no effect on the sexual
behavior of students, for if students and their dates want to have sexual intercourse, they can find many more romantic
opportunities than a narrow bed in a crowded dorm room or a couch in a fraternity house basement. It is
hypocritical of the college to maintain these regulations without admitting their rather childish purpose.

The irrelevancy of the rules was demonstrated at a recent meeting of student leaders and President Spencer. The matter of
the curfew came up, and Dr. Spencer confessed he was unfamiliar with it. When he asked for details, the students
were hard pressed to supply them. It is past time that these antiquated rules were done away with. We can
get along without the moral guidance of the night watchman.

Ignoring The Bylaws

We've heard the old saying that rules are made to be broken, but the student Senate is beginning to go
too far in its glaring violations of the bylaws. Either our Senators have not familiarized themselves with the rules which
they passed only this fall, or else they just don’t mind disobeying them. Those students who spent a lot of
time drawing up the bylaws had a purpose for everything they included—purposes which in some cases the Senate seems to
be oblivious of.

Take the executive committee, for instance. It is supposed to prepare an agenda for each Senate meeting. Until recently, the
executive committee did not even meet, and the agenda was apparently a haphazard list drawn up by President Joe Murphy.
The executive committee is also charged with the responsibility of appointing members to various committees, but so far the entire
Senate has been doing it instead. The chancellor is another position which could be more effectively used. His job is
to do all the “busy work” of the Senate—that is, seeing that all committee reports are answered, and that everything
is prepared for each Senate meeting. He is also a non-voting member of the Senate and can speak out on
any issue. Apparently, however, the present chancellor does not realize the full extent of his powers.

There have been numerous other smaller violations of the bylaws. The committee system has not been employed effectively. Committee reports
have not come in on time, and no one has been fined for excessive absences, although some members have exceeded
their limit. The minutes have often not contained the text of Senate resolutions and the voting records of the various
members are not kept, except in rare cases. The list goes on. The budget was not published before it was
approved by the Senate. Every change in the bylaws has not been read to the student body before it was
approved. In fact, no changes at all have been read at an assembly, to our knowledge. Finally, the Senate recently
elected two members to non-existent positions on the Social Council.

Last year we wanted a new student body constitution because the old one was inadequate and perverted. Now it’s the
Senate which is inadequate and is perverting the new constitution.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Juniors Belittle ‘Gentlemen’; Cross Sees Problems For Nixon

To The Editor:

A correction is in order. In last week’s DAVIDSONIAN the preliminary report of the Five-Year Plan Committee follows the headline,
“Davidson: ‘A Hiding Place From Society's Frustrations.’” This accusation was refuted partially during Tuesday's assembly. “Peace Pilgrim,” a pedestrian-at-large for
brotherhood and the olive branch, was asked, in no uncertain terms, to join the ranks of Gert Behanna and other
such notorious speakers. Amidst spurts of guffaws, snickers and riotous applause, she attempted to tell her story. One of those
weirdos who has a cause and lives by her beliefs, she has shown concern about people and walked over 25,000
miles to talk with them. And then dared to walk into Love Auditorium to talk about it.

When asked by the chaplain about the response she had received, she commented only by saying that Davidson has an
“unusual grouping of students.” She has been introduced to Davidson's own brand of academic snobbishness, a disease which prevents display
of common courtesy or recognition of genuineness in anyone as sincere as “Peace Pilgrim.”

“Peace Pilgrim” is amusing. Her comment that students can spot a phony any time caused a good stir of laughter.
Yet she is also perceptive. From the stage, she could not fail to see boys releasing some sort of frustration.Reaction
to her was certainly not hidden, and that is the sad thing. The “Davidson gentleman” could only laugh at anyone
so foolish to be sincere and admit it. And who's the phony?

George Johnson, ‘70
Nelson Sullivan, ‘70
Terrell Pulllem, ‘70
Ed Bartle, ‘70

Girls Even Draw Lies
Marvin Ellison, ‘70
Davidson College

To The Editor:
Though I voted for somebody else, I wish Richard Nixon well. Grave problems will confront him next January as our
next President. He must find solutions for most Davidson students.

Pilgrim Chapel Manifests Moral Indifference - Poland

To The Editor:
I was disappointed, but not surprised, at the reception given the assembly speaker by the audience at chapel Tuesday. Though
admittedly the Peace Pilgrim’s unorthodox appearance and animated gestures did inspire wholesome laughter at first sight, the disrespect and ridicule
to which the speaker was subjected during the whole period was understandably cruel to a person of sincere religious convictions
as is she. I talked with Peace Pilgrim privately after her speech, and I was ashamed to hear her say
that in her travels all over the country she had never been given such a hostile and disconcerting reception as
that she had experienced at Davidson. Peace Pilgrim was warmly received by a small number of interested students at a
voluntary coffee hour after chapel. The aversion generally encountered by Peace Pilgrim at Davidson, however, was significant and could be
attributed to several factors: Most Davidson students had no idea such a person even existed, much less that she would
speak to them at chapel, and they were totally unprepared when she spontaneously appeared before them at the podium. On
the other hand, perhaps this incident is just one more indictment of compulsory chapel, where the uninterested are forced to
attend but not to be attentive. However, a closer scrutiny of the students’ unabashed laughter during a serious spiritual testimony
reveals something significant about the “spiritual life” at Davidson College. In a college supposedly dedicated to “the development of men
of human instincts,” it was disturbing to behold such a blatant display of religious intolerance. Whether or not one agrees
with the methods of Peace Pilgrim's “Inner Way,” she certainly deserved quiet attention, or at least quiet, instead of uproarious
laughter. I am afraid, though, that the rejection of unorthodox spiritual possibilities by Davidson students is just a part of
the general atmosphere of moral indifference and social intolerance here. Most students remain pragmatically unconcerned with spiritual insights and moral
values, in spite of the humanizing liberal arts education they claim to be receiving. Instead of making one more tolerant
of others’ beliefs by opening up new worlds of experience, the Davidson environment seems to encourage rejection and ridicule of
any way of life not conforming to one’s own goals in society.

Norwood Poland, ‘71
Davidson College

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

The war in Asia, the racial strife in our cities, and the alienation of the young and the poor. He
was elected by the slender margin of 50,000 votes out of sixty million, with only 43 percent in a three-way
race. Both houses of Congress are still controlled by Democrats, and even though this next Congress will be rather conservative,
Mr. Nixon will have a sticky job with it, especially in the Senate, which is often considerably more liberal than
the House. In addition, the committee chairmen are often Southern Democrats with strong Wallace support smoldering in their home states.
But Mr. Nixon has great skill both as a politician and as an administrator, and he hopes to bind the
nation’s wounds and bring people together. This is an enormous task, and somebody obviously has to do it. But Nixon?
How is Dick Nixon going to unite the Negro vote with J. Strom Thurmond? How does he plan to unite
the youth vote with Everett Dirksen? How are such hawkish lions as Ronald Reagan, Robert Packwood, and Richard Schweiker to
lie down with the lambs who supported Robert Kennedy, George McGovern, Eugene McCarthy, and Nelson Rockefeller? How does he hope
to bring fiscal conservatives to the support of his extremely expensive scheme to increase our already vast nuclear arsenal? This
is the task which Richard Nixon has taken upon himself by conducting a campaign devoid of specific proposals to deal
with the problems of our modern age. But after all, he is the next President, and I can only hope
he does well. He has a rough road ahead of him.

Steve Cross, ‘72
Davidson College

For A Weekend, I Loved You

For a weekend, I loved you. You came down the stairs and I caught my breath. You with the long
hair, the subtle perfume. Friday night. We went to see “The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter,” and you cried at
one man’s loneliness. Can you cry for my loneliness? Saturday, and we drank champagne for lunch. Celibate Davidson was very
far away. Sunday noon, and I laughed at your ordering a coke, scrambled eggs, and french fries. I cared about
you very much. Then a brief kiss, and we both retreated into our own worlds. I don’t like good-byes. Today,
your kisses are ghosts of the weekend, haunting me. I have only memories and a sweater that smells of your
perfume. You have only an empty champagne bottle. Today you're there and I'm here. The miles separate us. Both sequestered.
You at a school for women, I at a school for men. Was there a sense of urgency about our
loving because we, both of us, live in artificial five-day worlds? Half-alive during the week, we find a reality and
a completeness only on weekends. This week, the men in your life are old enough to be your father, and
the women in my life are only the librarians. Why should I spend four years of my life in a
real world only during weekends, holidays, and summers? Why should you? We did this to ourselves by choice, but was
it a good choice? Did what we thought were diamonds turn out to be rhinestones? Has the value of what
we once thought was valid in educational institutions diminished? You laughed and said that if you had lived in a
nunnery for four years, you wanted every girl who follows you to have the same experience. Is there any future
for us? We are doomed, it seems, caught up in the fun of being together for two days and then
caught up in our own lives, in our apartness for the rest of the week. I might fall in love
with you if circumstances were different. But for now, I see you only rarely. The time and expense of road
trips keep us apart. We are both pressured by academic busy-work. This jinx rides us apart. Now, I can only
remember: your hair cascading over the pillow, your kisses. By a curious set of circumstances, we have deprived ourselves of
reality, of love.

Gardner Knocks Paper For Being Too Serious

To The Editor:
I wandered into my room after classes last Friday morning and found the latest edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN lying under
the door. I began to think about how much I appreciated this gesture since I'm sure it must have inconvenienced
you to do that every week for the past three years. Then I tried to read it. I suddenly became
quite sleepy, but couldn't figure out why since your treatment of the news is so highly regarded (at least according
to the publicity you so often give yourselves for your own awards). I may be sticking my neck out by
criticizing such obviously well-respected newsprint, but you gentlemen get so damned serious about everything that the overall tone of your
paper becomes horribly tedious. I think you would do well to save some of the space formerly given to people
like Franklin Anderson, for example, whose meaningless chatter is not worth reading, and use it to put in a little
more humor. I can’t imagine why you did not give Rocky Crosswhite a column last week, since the few good
laughs you allow him to give make your treatment of the news much easier to digest. I found out last
week that without good writers like Crosswhite THE DAVIDSONIAN is quite unbearable. I am aware that sobriety must be the
prevalent tone of news media; but it should not be the only tone. In the past, Rocky has proven his
ability to add comic relief to the ponderously serious crusading criticism which usually graces your award-winning paper. If you don't
print his column every week from now on I'll cancel my subscription.

Joe Gardner, '69
Davidson College

WAILING WALL

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters to the editor from students, faculty members, parents, trustees, and anyone else who wishes to bring
ideas and views before the Davidson community. Letters should be submitted by 6 p.m. Tuesday. Space permitting, all letters will
be printed the week received. Only signed letters are accepted for publication. Letters not printed the week received will appear
in the next issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
