Page Six February 9, 1968

She Ravibsanian

Spanky, Lettermen Set To Liven Midwinters

Concerts by The Lettermen and Spanky and Our Gang will highlight this year's Midwinters Weekend. The Lettermen, a popular trio,
will perform at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium on Friday night. The College Union will show a movie after the
concert until midnight. Breakfast will be available from 2 a.m. to 4 a.m. Saturday morning for $1 per person. Spanky
and Our Gang will present a concert in Love Auditorium on Saturday at 8 p.m. Spanky and Our Gang, a
relatively new rock group, have had several hit records in the last year. The Union has scheduled a special concert
featuring soul-singer Eddie Floyd. Floyd’s performance is slated for Saturday at 10:15 p.m. The Union has also planned surprise midnight
concerts for both Friday and Saturday nights.

Campus Comment

Vacation Dates Draw Criticism

In response to the question, “What do you like or dislike about the new calendar for next year?” These students
said:

Vernon Odom, sophomore: “My main objection to the calendar would be that we are supposed to return for the second
semester on Jan. 2. We already went through that once this year and I would suppose that the faculty would
learn.”

Leonard Tyson, junior: “It is great that we can start as late as Sept. 25—it will almost make up for
going as late into the summer as June 5. I disagree with the holiday policy.”

Tom Alison, junior: “I like having exams early before Christmas, but I think it foolish to come back Jan. 2
especially in the light of student opinion this year. Spring break seems awfully short, and I am wondering if it
coincides with Easter.”

Ken Telford, junior: “I fail to see any logic in coming back New Year's day just for two days of
classes, especially considering the amount of traffic on the roads. Considering the pressure for grades in this school, I am
afraid of the prospect of going five months with a two-class-days break.”

Constitution (Continued From Page One)

Bates listed the most significant provisions, beginning with the statement of student rights in Article IV. A second feature was
a wider base of representation from the student body in the proposed Senate than in the present Student Council. Members
of the Senate would represent separate dormitories as well as separate classes. Also of importance will be the SEC. This
body will provide a second opportunity for vigorous student government if the president does not choose to exercise an active
role. The final three features which Bates emphasized were possible checks upon the broad legislative power of the Senate. The
first—the referendum of Article V—would allow the SGA to nullify any act of the Senate by a two-thirds majority. Having
two elections a year to fill the Senate positions could also make the Senate more responsive to student opinion.

It's rare that a Davidson student will get up at 7 every Sunday morning, and even rarer that one will
volunteer to write the equivalent of a term paper every Saturday night. But three Davidson sophomores are doing this in
order to be student pastors at churches in Concord Presbytery. The Presbyterian Church of Wilkesboro asked Chaplain Scott Woodmansee to
find applicants for a student pastor who would help them until a permanent pastor could be found. Woodmansee notified pre-ministerial
students and members of the YMCA cabinet of the opening. Sophomore Ken Crews volunteered for the position and was accepted.
Two other sophomores, Franklin Anderson and Bob Dunham, were interested in getting similar posts: once Crews received the student pastorate
at Wilkesboro, Anderson and Dunham questioned Woodmansee about finding another opening. Woodmansee found two churches willing to hire the students
to fill their pulpits, the Tabor and Harmony Presbyterian Churches, near Statesville. Crews started serving the Wilkesboro congregation before Christmas,
while Anderson and Dunham have been serving the two churches since the end of the Christmas vacation. The three students
cited various reasons they should desire to commit themselves to preaching every Sunday morning. Crews, describing himself as “not definitely
pre-ministerial,” said that he wanted to take a look at a church, at the problems of sermon preparation, and at
a different element of society. “I am presently leaning toward seminary,” Dunham said, “I want to make sure that this
is what I want.” The students felt that the preparation of sermons was both the hardest and the most beneficial
task. Crews said, “It cuts down on my Saturday night dating,” unless he “sets aside one night a week,” for
sermon writing.

Spencer (Continued From Page One)

“Decision for War, 1917” and “Booker T. Washington and the Negro’s Place in American Life,” Pressure on the trustees for
a speedy decision on a replacement for Martin has been mounting, due to the pending resignation of Robert J. Sailstad,
director of public relations and development. Because of the pressure for not letting fund-raising projects lapse, and the practical requirement
that a president should be chosen before a new director of development, several faculty members have said that the trustees
will be quite likely to finish the selection before the May trustee meeting. Martin's and Sailstad’s resignations take effect June
30. Spencer has been favored for the job of president because of his success in revitalizing Mary Baldwin, where he
has strengthened the faculty, reorganized the alumni association and brought the college out of serious financial problems, Bondurant and a
faculty member said. However, working against him is the desire for more funds from non-Southern sources for Davidson. Spencer's background
as a Southerner might hamper his ability to acquire funds from such sources as the Rockefeller, Carnegie or Ford foundations.
Rumors among Baldwin students that Spencer would resign to take a job at Davidson were rampant before Martin's resignation, and
added credence to the reports of consideration of creating the post of academic dean. However, all reports have been denied
by the office of the Dean of Faculty. According to Earl Lawrimore, associate director of the news.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
HEYWARD CARTER
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER
BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editors:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
KEATON FONVIELLE
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
BURKEY BELSER
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS
MIKE SIGMAN

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors for this week:
Lewis Lavine, Biff Fine, Ben Garrett, Craig Culp, Glenn Mauney, John Pancake, Mark Wingate, Doug Haynes, Dick Anderson, George Allen,
Ed Shoaf, Paul Rowland, Paul Schneider, John Williams, Rob Krehbiel, Edward Hay, Bill Warren, Allen Lewis, Jim Cooley, James Lee,
Steve Callender, David Sweatt, Ashton Trice, David Cook and Dave Morrow.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (If billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Anderson and Dunham are alternating Sundays. Thus, one week Anderson has the sermon and Dunham has the remainder of the
service, with the situation reversed the next week. Nonetheless, Anderson maintains that “the discipline of having to prepare part of
a service takes something out of you.” Although all three students prepare a written text of their sermons, Anderson said
he found himself “ad libbing to a great extent,” and Dunham describes his delivery as more of “a conversation with
the congregation than a formal presentation.” Asked if they had made any errors they would care to admit, Dunham responded
that he recalled a sermon in which he referred to “the prodigal of the parable son.” Woodmansee remarked he would
not normally advise such student pastor projects but he commended the three students for their contributions to the churches. The
bureau, the only consideration of the idea has been by isolated individuals, and is “meaningless.” Spencer has been popular with
Mary Baldwin students, and Susan Gamble, president of the Mary Baldwin student body, has said that his resignation would be
regretted by the students.

Fire (Continued From Page One)

“It took us about three minutes to get over to the dormitory,” said Davidson Fire Chief George S. Hampton. “We
tried to put it out with fire extinguishers but couldn't, so we had to use about 25 gallons of water.”
“I expected to find water all over the hall after the fire department came,” said McKellar, “but they put it
out very efficiently.” “Sunday night a cop walked in, smelled smoke, and said, ‘Hey, what's burning?’ The security forces didn’t
even know that there had been a fire,” McKellar added. However, E. N. Linker, campus security officer, said, “I'm deeply
concerned about the fire. The Lord’s got his hand on our shoulders preventing some boy's being burned up around here.”
McKellar also said, “I'm glad it didn’t happen during a dance weekend, when there are four or five men to
a room, with a large percentage of them somewhat drunk.”

THE LETTERMEN Singers due for Midwinters.

Woodmansee also commented on the YMCA's Deputations Program in which approximately 30 Davidson students are working with young people in
nearby churches as another means of involvement in the church. Speculating on his accomplishments, Crews said that both he and
his congregation of 50 members were trying to build up the membership. He feels that his age gives him an
advantage in working with the church's youth and may attract more students from nearby Wilkes Community College.

Miss Peinemann, Symphony Cited

Ed. Note: The following is a review of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra performance, with Miss Edith Peinemann as guest soloist.
The reviewer is a junior.

By ASHTON TRICE

The Charlotte Symphony in an Artist Series performance last night in Love Auditorium adequately handled Bach, only barely stumbled on
Wagner, and with the addition of Miss Edith Peinemann as violin soloist completely mastered Dvorak. The symphony, under the direction
of Jacques Brourman, began with a fine playing of Bach's Suite in D major. The string and wind ensemble gave
a sensitive performance, full of clarity and honest interpretation, marred only by “crowd noise” and chaos behind the stage. The
second number consisted of selections from Wagner's “Gotterdammerung.” The orchestra was not as impressive as earlier when faced with the
vastness of the Wagner score, but by the conclusion, it had found its footing for a good finale. The final
number was the highpoint of the evening, the Dvorak Concerto for violin, performed superbly by Miss Peinemann, who drew from
the folkish score perhaps as much as there is to find. The technical skill which the piece requires was well
within her scope, and it was a fitting finale to the concert.

Social Changes Cause Guilt, Glasse Believes

America is a nation of displaced persons guilty about new freedoms, Dr. James D. Glasse told the student body in
chapel Thursday. Glasse, associate dean and professor of theology at Vanderbilt University Divinity School, spoke on the topic “Social Change:
Where Are We Going?” He ascribed displacement and disorientation in American society to two factors: the increased mobility which persons
have in society and the tremendous prosperity which Americans enjoy.

“You have a whole new freedom,” Glasse said. “Society is now built for playing as well as working. The older
generation feels guilty about playing.” Entertaining his audience with frequent impersonations of the “standard white protestant” attitude of the older
generation, he satirized the attitude of those opposed to change as being, “We'll put you back in your place.” Glasse
described movement in society in two parts. There is horizontal mobility, the movement of population and individuals from place to
place, and vertical mobility, which is an increase in status.

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)

The technical skill which the piece requires was well within her scope, and it was a fitting finale to the
concert.

JACK AUGUSTITUS ... 1967 graduate.

Augustitus Killed In Germany

The funeral for John William (Jack) Augustitus, '66, was held Wednesday at East Setauket Presbyterian Church, East Setauket, N.Y. Augustitus
was killed in an automobile accident on an autobahn near Heidelberg, West Germany, where he was serving with the U.S.
Army Quartermaster Corps. Further details were not available Wednesday. At Davidson, Augustitus majored in psychology and was an advanced ROTC
student. He joined Sigma Phi Epsilon where he served as secretary and house manager.

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

375-9723 217 N. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C. 28202

You'll develop a talent for making hard-nosed, imaginative decisions. And have been there. If you'd like to be a giant
yourself, and your better ideas are in finance, product engineering, manufacturing, you'll know how these decisions affect marketing and sales,
personnel administration or systems research, see the man from Ford when he visits your campus, or send your resume to
Ford Motor Company, College Recruiting Department. You and Ford can grow bigger together.

THE AMERICAN ROAD, DEARBORN, MICHIGAN AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

What's it like to work for a giant?
