(Staff Photo by Friebele)

GORDON SLADE BLASTS TWO-RUN HOMER
Slugger collected five big hits against Furman.

Wildcat Baseballers Win Twice... Honest!

The Davidson baseball team, a team which had almost forgotten what it was like to win, finally remembered this week,
as they picked up two wins in three outings. Not bad for a team which had won only one in
18 prior to that.

"We were a different team this week," said team captain Jack Smith, as he summed up the team’s reaction to
wins over High Point and Furman. The ‘Cat nine apparently put together all the elements of winning baseball at last,
as pitching and hitting began to coordinate into a solid attack.

The ‘Cats split a doubleheader with Furman Tuesday. In spite of a solid attack in the first game, they fell
7-5, and then rode the two-hit pitching of Johnny Riggs to a 6-0 win in the second.

It was the bats of Gordon Slade and Frank Murphy which provided the hitting punch for Davidson. Slade pounded out
a single, a double, two triples, and a home run in eight trips to the plate, while Murphy picked up
five hits, going three for three in the second game. Coach Tom Stevens commented that it was Murphy's "best day
ever in a Wildcat uniform." He also pointed to Slade’s seven RBIs which almost doubled his previous total of eight.

In the first game, David King pitched one-hit ball for six innings in relief of starter Clark Nickerson. Nickerson was
extremely wild at the outset, as he walked five, hit a batter, and gave up two hits en route to
a seven-run Furman barrage in the first two innings.

"I'm not sure what happened to Nickerson," said Stevens. "It had never happened to him before. Perhaps he was pressing
too hard."

The change in the team’s appearance began before the Furman games, however. It began against High Point last weekend. It
came behind the strong pitching of freshman Wade Shepherd, who went the full nine innings to chalk up a four-hit
4-2 win.

"We had been talking about winning for a long time," said one player after the game. "We finally got around
to doing it."

Stevens said after the game that the team had looked "a whole lot better." "We finally started playing ball effectively,"
he said, "and our defense finally began to click. That makes a great difference."

Tomorrow afternoon, the Wildcats meet East Carolina in their last home game of the season. Stevens said that he planned
to start Shepherd against the Pirates and added that he was looking forward to the game in the hopes for
an upset win. The ‘Cats take to the road next week for their final games of the season against Furman
and The Citadel.

SUBSIDIZED TEAMS STRONG
'Cats Face Tough Tournaments

By BOB DUNHAM
Sports Editor

Whether the sport be track, golf, or tennis, next week is the week for tournaments, and from all that has
been said it appears that Davidson should do well in all of them.

With the three conference tournaments rapidly approaching, each coach took time this week to analyze his team's possibilities, and everyone
seemed quite optimistic.

Track Coach Heath Whittle, for instance, is sending 14 men to the conference meet next weekend and expects strong performances
from each one. Leading the way to Ft. Eustis, Va., and the meet which will be held by the U.S.
Army, will be sprinters Rick Lyon and Greg Cox. Whittle said this week that he feels Lyon has a good
chance of taking the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and pointed to his times for evidence. Lyon has run a 9.7
in the hundred with a 21.6 in the 220, each time only one-tenth of a second behind the top conference
time this year. Cox will compete in the broad jump, 120 high hurdles, 440-yard relay, and possibly the mile relay.
Whittle looks for his best effort in the broad jump.

Another race in which the Wildcats figure to place is the 440-yard relay. The problem which might eliminate the relay
team is the injured leg of sprinter Whit Morrow. Whittle said that if Morrow can run, the team should do
quite well. The only other Davidson runner picked to finish well is John Puckett, who should turn in a top
performance in the 880.

The remainder of the team which will go to Ft. Eustis includes Tom Rogers, Keith Everett, George Rogister, Brad Danielson,
James Puckett, Ken Hill, Jimmy Trussel, Steve Kirley, Frank Bass, and Jim McLaughtin.

Against the strong subsidized track teams from many conference schools, the Wildcat cindermen don't have a chance to win, but
they are almost a sure bet to finish better than last year, when the team failed to score a single
point.

The Dunes Country Club in Myrtle Beach will be the site of the Southern Conference golf tournament, which begins early
next week. In this tournament, Davidson draws the role of defending champion, but will probably find the going rough in
retaining the title. Although the Wildcats will be the team to beat, they will encounter several schools in the tourney
that began golf subsidization programs two years ago. The result will be several tough teams.

Strong challenges are expected from Furman and The Citadel, two of the newly subsidized teams. Both have numerous sophomores and
freshman stars and both beat Davidson early in the season.

Mike Spann will lead the Davidson charge. He was low man in the 1967 tournament over the same course. George
Leight, who finished fourth last year, will be another Davidson threat. Other Davidson players going to Myrtle Beach are Danny
White, John Giles, and Spring Football Building On Sophomore Talents.

By DAVID BRANCH
Sports Writer

Homer Smith is in the midst of his fourth spring practice as Head Football Coach at Davidson and, despite unanticipated
losses of key coaching personnel and

(Staff Photo by Weems)

GOLFERS LEIGHT AND SPANN AT PLAY
Lead charge to Myrtle Beach Tourney.

The Davidsonian
May 3, 1968
Page Five

(Staff Photo by Friebele)

TRACKMEN HURDLE TOWARD TOURNEY
Cox, Danielson, and Rogister pose three-way threat.

chance to win, but they are almost a sure bet to finish better than last year, when the team failed
to score a single point. The Dunes Country Club in Myrtle Beach will be the site of the Southern Conference
golf tournament, which begins early next week. In this tournament, Davidson draws the role of defending champion, but will probably
find the going rough in retaining the title. Although the Wildcats will be the team to beat, they will encounter
several schools in the tourney that began golf subsidization programs two years ago. The result will be several tough teams.
Strong challenges are expected from Furman and The Citadel, two of the newly subsidized teams. Both have numerous sophomores and
freshman stars and both beat Davidson early in the season. Mike Spann will lead the Davidson charge. He was low
man in the 1967 tournament over the same course. George Leight, who finished fourth last year, will be another Davidson
threat. Other Davidson players going to Myrtle Beach are Danny White, John Giles, and Spring Football Building On Sophomore Talents.

By DAVID BRANCH
Sports Writer

Homer Smith is in the midst of his fourth spring practice as Head Football Coach at Davidson and, despite unanticipated
losses of key coaching personnel and

(Staff Photo by Weems)

GOLFERS LEIGHT AND SPANN AT PLAY
Lead charge to Myrtle Beach Tourney.

The Davidsonian
May 3, 1968
Page Five

(Staff Photo by Friebele)

TRACKMEN HURDLE TOWARD TOURNEY
Cox, Danielson, and Rogister pose three-way threat.Returning players, he has been quite pleased with the team's progress thus far.

Delts Ride Thompson, Hunt To Machi Win, IMAC Title
By GARY SIGMON
Sports Writer

Phi Delta Theta won it all yesterday afternoon. In the battle of the giants, the Phi Delts edged by Sigma
Chi, 3-2, behind the three-hit pitching of Kit Thompson. Both teams looked impressive in what was probably the best game
of the IMAC softball season.

Ron Hunt provided the big stick for the Delts, as his fourth-inning two-run homer brought across the winning runs. Fox
Demoisey picked up the only solid Machi hit off the windmilling Thompson. But the play of the game went to
Sigma Chi's Jerry Kroll. In the bottom of the first inning, Kroll took a fly ball in straightaway center field
and picked off the Delts’ Jim May, who had tagged up, with a perfect throw to the plate.

The Machis retained sole possession of second place, however, as Kappa Alpha upset the Phi Gamms. For the Phi Gamms,
it was only the third loss of the season, as they came out on the short end of a 3-1
score.

Earlier in the week, the Phi Delts sustained their only loss of the season at the hands of the Phi
Gamms, as the absence of Thompson was a great factor. The final score was 19-14 in the long slugfest. The
Delts jumped back into the winning quickly by trouncing the SAE's 13-5. Hunt, Dave Fearnbach, and Dave Moser led the
Delt attack.

Sigma Chi demolished the Sig Eps 18-1. Bob Lanier handcuffed the Sig Ep batters, while the hitting of Demoisey and
Lanier led the Machi offense. The Machis extended their record to 10-1 as they trounced the KA's 10-3. Edgar Exum
led the Machi hitters.

The SAE’s beat the Pikas 17-7. Rusty Lacy was the winning pitcher and led his team at the plate also.
Steve Butler aided the SAE cause with a home run. With a well-rounded attack, the Gamms defeated the Pi Kapps
13-7. Bob Apgar pitched a good game and the entire Gamm team hit the ball well. The Pi Kapps came
out on top, however, in their game with the KA’s. Sam McNeely pitched for the Pi Kapps and Bill Bowman
collected three hits.

The Sigma Nus walloped the Kappa Sigs 15-3. Bill Barnett played excellent defense as Dave White and Steve Hayes each
got three hits. Tommy Phillips was the winning pitcher.

(Staff Photo by Friebele)
TWO HANDS FOR BEGINNERS
KA’s Slade watches Chalk handle pop fly.

With only a few make-up games left to be played, the Delts have finished on top of the standings with
an 11-1 record. Sigma Chi is second with a 10-2 season mark. The Gamms and the Nus tied for third
with 9-3 records, and the Sig Eps finished fifth with a 7-5 mark.

Smith said he was concerned at the outset of spring practice about the loss of Assistant Coach Warner Alford to
Georgia Tech and the loss of returning starters Lindsey Bishop and Hank Strickland to injuries and graduate school. Practice has
gone smoothly, however, and Smith now feels that his 1968 edition will be stronger than last year’s team.

According to Smith, the Wildcats won't have as much drop-off next year as many fans expect due to the loss
of all-conference quarterback Jimmy Poole. The reason for this is Gordon Slade, who appears ready to lead the Wildcat offensive
in the manner it has become accustomed to during the Poole era.

Smith said that Davidson can't afford to “have sophomores playing like sophomores next year.” With this in mind, he has
installed a number of sophomores to key positions and is trying to give them as much playing experience as possible.
Sophomores John Harper, Leonard Baugham, Mike Mikolayunas, and Rusty Lawrence have looked good on offense while Nick Dumich, Chris Giles,
and Brian Peterson have impressed the coaches on defense.

Despite an extremely tough schedule, Davidson's 1968 squad should, barring injuries, be much improved over last year's squad.

HOMER SMITH
working hard

TV Special On Driesell Sunday
WSOC TV (Channel 9) will present a colorful, half-hour documentary on Davidson basketball coach Lefty Driesell Sunday afternoon at 2:30.
The program, entitled “Is Lefty For Real?” features interviews with numerous Davidson players, past and present, about the controversial coach,
his teams, and his habits. Produced by WSOC Sports Director Bill Currie, the program will immediately precede the Atlanta Braves
baseball game.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PITA Tucker Dalton and Doug Clark. Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman is optimistic, but not overly so, in evaluating the Wildcat
chances at VMI, the site of this year’s Southern Conference tourney. The defending champion Wildcats are going to face strong
challenges from several subsidized teams, including The Citadel, George Washington, and William and Mary.

“I think we have an excellent chance to win,” Fogleman said, “but we will have to play hard and well
to do so.” Fogleman added that all Davidson players will have some type of seed in the tournament, with George
Berner probably being the number one seed in the tournament. Joining Berner at Lexington will be team captain Sam Hatcher,
Dan Hearon, Woody Faulk, Jim Cantrell, and David Jennings.

Fogleman Breeze, Smash Duke, 7-2
Davidson's defending Southern Conference champions met two Atlantic Coast Conference teams this week and emerged with a win and a
loss to up their record to 23-2-1. The win came yesterday afternoon, as the Cat netters clubbed the Duke squad,
7-2. Losing only one singles match and one doubles match, Davidson rode to victory over the subsidized Blue Devils.

George Berner swept number one singles play with a 6-2, 6-0 match. Team captain Sam Hatcher, Woody Faulk, Dan Hearon,
and Jim Cantrell also posted singles wins. Berner and Hatcher posted number one doubles wins, 6-2, 6-3. Cantrell and David
Jennings took the seventh Davidson point with a number three doubles win.

The team traveled to Wake Forest Monday to meet the ACC's strongest team and came out on the short end
of a 5-4 match. The match was extremely close, with the final doubles match being the deciding one. Berner scored
an impressive win over Wake’s powerful Mike Rubenstein, 2-6, 6-4, 6-1. It was only the first time this season Rubenstein
has been defeated. Hatcher was also impressive in his 6-1, 6-1 singles victory. Faulk drew Coach Harry Fogleman’s praise for
his number four singles play, as he won 6-3, 6-1.

The Wildcats journeyed north last weekend and captured conference wins over Richmond, George Washington, and William and Mary. The Cats
stormed by Richmond 9-0, winning every match by convincing scores. Fogleman said the Spiders presented “no problem at all.” George
Washington and William and Mary had been rated as two of the three toughest Conference opponents the Wildcats would face
this year. The Cats, however, returned home with their conference record unblemished as they coasted to 6-3 and 7-2 wins.

The team will meet Oglethorpe College tomorrow afternoon on the asphalt courts in preparation for the hard courts at the
conference meet.

BOSTONIANS
Coordinate this soft-grained handsewn moccasin with all of your clothing. Come see our tremendous selections of hand-crafted and superbly fitting
BOSTONIANS.

Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist
John Mock & Son
Our 56th Year
Mooresville
