“STUDENTS ARE NIGGERS” (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1968

MERRITT EXAMINES SOUTHERN CONFERENCE (See Page Four)

NUMBER SIX

Students Buck Parents, But Nixon Still Wins Straw Vote

Nixon 307; Humphrey 255; Wallace 24

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Nixon won it. In the Wednesday straw balloting, the Nixon-Agnew ticket polled 307 student votes; Humphrey-Muskie, 255; and Wallace-LeMay, 24. Students showed a decided shift to the left from their strongly pro-Nixon parents. But among faculty members voting, Humphrey got 40 votes, compared to Nixon’s 18 and Wallace’s one. The voting was sponsored by THE DAVIDSONIAN, in cooperation with the student Senate.

Counting both the faculty and student vote together, Nixon had 51 percent of the 645 votes cast. Humphrey pulled 45 percent and Wallace 4 percent. The percentages were little different when the student vote is figured separately. Of the 586 students voting, Nixon received 52 percent, followed by Humphrey with 43 percent and Wallace with 4 percent.

ODK Recognizes

Only in the junior and senior classes did Humphrey receive a majority. The juniors gave Humphrey 50 votes to Nixon’s 46, while the seniors gave Humphrey 81 votes to Nixon’s 46. The results were just the reverse in the freshman and sophomore classes. Nixon pulled 119 freshman votes to Humphrey's 73; sophomores voted 96-48 in favor of Nixon. Wallace received 11, two, three, and seven votes in the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior classes, respectively. Four students did not mark their classes on their ballots. Of these, three voted for Humphrey and one for Wallace.

When students expressed their opinions last spring in the Choice ’68 primary, Nixon trailed Minnesota Senator Eugene McCarthy, who polled 39 percent to the Republican’s 23 percent. Senator Robert Kennedy polled 13 percent at the time. Faculty members did not vote in the Choice ’68 balloting. In a 1964 student vote, Republican nominee Barry Goldwater edged out Lyndon Johnson in the student vote, but the faculty went heavily for the Democrat, as it did this year.

Students were also asked to give their parents’ preferences in the presidential race. According to the poll, 701 parents will vote for Nixon, 266 for Humphrey and 86 for Wallace. Ninety-two students indicated that they did not know whom their parents favored. Nixon polled 64 percent, Humphrey 23 percent and Wallace 7 percent of the parents’ vote. Eight percent listed “don’t know.”

By class, 239 freshman parents will vote for Nixon, 77 for Humphrey and 32 for Wallace. For sophomore parents, 191 were listed as Nixon voters, compared with 53 for Humphrey and 19 for Wallace. In the junior class, 109 parents will vote for Nixon, 66 for Humphrey and seven for Wallace. For senior parents, 162 will ballot for Nixon, 70 for Humphrey and 18 for Wallace. Twenty-nine freshmen did not know their parents’ preferences, compared with 21, 32 and 10 for sophomore, junior and senior parents, respectively.

By party, 169 students listed themselves as Republicans, compared to 176 Democrats, 223 independents and four members of the Wallace organization, the American Independent Party. By percentage, 29 percent of the students voting are Republicans, 30 percent are Democrats, 39 percent are independents and one percent are American Independent Party supporters.

9 More Seniors

Nine seniors were tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, yesterday morning during chapel. Membership is limited to students in the top 35 percent of their class and recognizes leaders in five areas: scholarship, athletics, student government and social life, publications, and dramatics, music and art.

Bud Cousar is chairman of the SGA Court of Appeals, president of Beta Theta Pi and a former student body vice president. George House is editor of “The Miscellany,” a member of Phi Delta Theta and a battalion commander in ROTC. Soccer letterman Sayard Miller is chairman of the Investigating Committee of the SGA, former member of the Student Council and Phi Delta Theta member. Frank Murphy is president of the senior class, captain of the baseball team and a member of Phi Delta Theta. D Club Vice President Tony Osborn has appeared in three drama productions and holds the school record in the high jump. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Mike Payne was the only member of the junior class last year named to Phi Beta Kappa. He is also a member of Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholastic honorary, and is treasurer of Pi Kappa Phi. Sigma Phi Epsilon president Randy Phillips is captain of the cross country team and a member of the Student Life Committee. Larry Slade is a freshman adviser and president of Kappa Alpha. Last spring he was a key leader in the Negro scholarship fund drive. “Miscellany” Business Manager Bill Thomson is treasurer of Phi Delta Theta and a member of Phi Eta Sigma.

The speaker prior to the tapping activities was Irvin Duggan, ‘61, an administrative assistant to President Johnson. At Davidson, Duggan was managing and associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and an ODK member, and after graduation he worked for the Washington Post. At the White House, his duties include ghost writing, planning legislation, and serving as an advance man for the President.

Senate Names 15 To Commissions

(Staff Photo by Weems)

WORKING FOR A HUMPHREY VICTORY

Sanford responds as Mike Johnson moderates.

Sanford In His Element Confronting Big Crowd

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-In-Chief

Terry Sanford was looking directly into the TV lights, but he didn’t blink at a single question. In fact, the Tarheel made good in national politics seemed to enjoy fielding the questions thrown at him Tuesday morning by the students, faculty and townspeople packed into the Morrison Room. When somebody asked him how close he came to being named the Democrats’ vice presidential nominee at the convention in August, for instance, he grinned broadly. “It’s like in horseshoes, you know. You're the closest one to the stake, or you're not close at all.” When he was asked to comment on Eugene McCarthy's

Spencer: ‘Sympathetic To Coeducation Idea’

By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

“My position at this point is that I am sympathetic to the idea of coeducation,” reported Dr. Samuel R. Spencer to Monday night's Open End discussion. “I have not come to an absolute conclusion on the matter of coeducation... because I would like to know something about the facts, showing what would be involved here in terms of economics as well as social patterns and everything else.” It was with this note of cautious optimism that Spencer answered students’ questions about Davidson's present and future. About 70 students attended the Open End, and most of their questions concerned Spencer's attitudes toward areas under study by the joint student-faculty-trustee commissions. Spencer noted that though fraternities havebeen an essential part of the social pattern, there is a question as to whether this is the best system. He warned that “we cannot assume that fraternities have a place automatically.” Turning to the problem of faculty integration, Spencer promised that the college would actively recruit Negro professors and clerical personnel. A member of the audience suggested that integration begin in the ROTC Department since it is a part of the fully integrated U.S. Army. (See SPENCER, Page 6)

THE LOGISTICS OF GOING COED

President Spencer answers students. In a belated endorsement of Hubert Humphrey, Sanford quipped, “I'd rather have it than not have it.” And he shrugged off McCarthy’s lack of enthusiasm for the Democratic ticket. “Of course he's not enthusiastic. He didn’t support himself enthusiastically.”

Back in chapel an hour earlier, where Sanford launched the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Martin Lecture Series, the former North Carolina governor was full of joviality. He praised former President D. Grier Martin, for whom the lecture series is named, ruminated on the so-called “New Politics” and the role youth should take in it, and got in a gentle jab at compulsory chapel. “I always like to speak where attendance is required,” he said.

The national chairman of Citizens for Humphrey Muskie mentioned Humphrey's name only once in his chapel talk—“I'm not supposed to do that”—but he made it perfectly clear where his loyalties lie. He mentioned the Democrats’ plans for using youth in national government, but, “if the other fellow wins—well, we'll put our plans in the mail for him.”

In the coffee hour in the Morrison Room later, Sanford said he couldn't blame North Carolina Democratic gubernatorial nominee Bob Scott for shying away from the national ticket. Anyway, Sanford said, “Bob Scott backs the Democrats up and down the line.” But he didn't say how.

Others To Be Chosen
By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

Student members of the five advisory commissions proposed by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. were appointed by the student Senate at its meeting Tuesday from large lists of students who signed up to be considered.

Selected to the Commission on Church Relationship were juniors Tom Norwood, Ken Crews, and William Brown. Juniors Pat Bray and Mac Davis will serve on the Commission on Co-education with senior Joe Murphy. The only sophomore on any commission, James Parks, was selected with Joe Kilpatrick, a junior, and Larry Slade, a senior, to the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities. Seniors Kerry Keith, Joe Kearfoot, and Rocky Crosswhite were named to the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. Junior Peter Hobbie and seniors Al Varner and Bayard Miller will serve on the Commission on Social Patterns.

The commissions will begin work as soon as the faculty and trustee members are elected. The 10 elected faculty members have been chosen for two weeks; however, delays in the appointment of the other five members by Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston have postponed the announcement of the faculty commission members. Walter L. Lingle Jr., president of the Board of Trustees, has been out of the country much of the time since the trustee meeting Oct. 11 and has not completed selection of the trustees to be on the commissions.

If this particular Mooresville cemetery has a Christian commitment, then someone has his doubts, for the “Enter Only” seems to make it evident that someone thinks the road to the cemetery is one way. However, the lack of faith is compensated elsewhere, for the narrow gate and road behind it are almost Biblical themselves. (Staff Photo by Weems)

Carter: On Forceful Senate, Himself, Successes, Issues
By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

Covey Carter is satisfied. As a senior senator, Carter said, “There is a definite need for forceful student leadership in the Davidson community, and I am satisfied that the SGA Senate is providing this leadership.”

Carter had more to say, both about himself and the issues before the senate, for this first in a series of occasional interviews with Senate leaders. “I am enthusiastic about the accomplishments of the Senate,” Carter said. “The senators are exceptional people who are willing to put their thoughts and actions to work for the student body.”

Carter pointed to the Free University, the campus radio station, the Negro Scholarship Fund, and the Resident Hall Association as the major successes of this year's Senate. “We have completed some of our major objectives, but because of this we must not let up now but continue our present pace of achievements.”

Addressing himself to some of the major issues which will face the Senate in the future, Carter took a conservative viewpoint that has marked his past stands on issues. When asked about his views on the question of voluntary ROTC which the Senate will consider at its Tuesday meeting, Carter took a rather ambivalent position. “I am opposed to requiring ROTC for freshmen and sophomores, but I still back the ROTC program as it is at Davidson because it would be impossible to train good Army officers unless they went four years. In other words, the advanced program would be hurt if the first two years were not compulsory. Anyway, the incoming freshmen are not interested in avoiding the draft and the two years in ROTC draw them closer to the facts of the situation so they can make a decision about advanced ROTC,” Carter said, indicating that he will support the present set-up.

Concerning the question of more extensive recruiting of Negro students, Carter expressed concern that the Negroes might not measure up to the present admission standards. “The recruiting must be aimed at gifted Negro students, and to no extent should we lower our requirements to admit Negroes, because this would increase the resentment and tension on campus between blacks and whites.”

Carter took a definite stand on only one of the issues related to the five presidential commissions whose student membership the Senate appointed Tuesday. (See CARTER, Page 6)