EXAM SCHEDULE

TIME CLASS
Mon., 9 a.m. 8 a.m.
Tue., 9 a.m. 3 p.m.
Tue., 2 p.m. 9 a.m.
Wed., 2 p.m. 11 a.m.
LVIII Thu., 9 a.m. 4 p.m.
Thu., 2 p.m. |-study
Fri., 9 a.m. Fri., 2 p.m. Noon 2 p.m.

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1968

IFC Outlines Rushing
By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council reaffirmed this year's procedures for rush last Tuesday afternoon. Freshmen dorms were closed to all upperclassmen at
7:30 last night, and will remain closed until after formal rush. A period of silence will be imposed at 10
p.m. Dec. 8 through Jan. 3 at 8 a.m. Bobby Vagt, chairman of the IFC, said that no phone calls
will be allowed from fraternity houses to freshmen halls during the period of silence.

Freshmen must pick up their date cards Tuesday morning Jan. 7. A period of silence will begin at noon Tuesday.
Rush parties will be held on Thursday and Friday nights and Saturday and Sunday afternoons, Jan 9-12. Vagt said that
no drinking of alcoholic beverages by fraternity men or freshmen will be permitted during the parties. The period of silence
will be lifted 15 minutes before the first party each day and will be reimposed 15 minutes after the third
party.

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

‘QUANTUM JUMP’
Platt says man may not survive to see it.

Platt: Man Must Make ‘Quantum Jump’...Soon
Dr. John R. Platt, Reynolds lecturer, foresees a new world if man’s potential is developed and everyone is not annihilated
before then. Platt, associate director and research biophysicist at the Mental Health Institute of the University of Michigan, spoke Monday
evening and at an assembly Tuesday.

In his Monday night address, “The Potential of Man,” Platt said that in the next 20-25 years, life on earth
will either be destroyed or mankind will make a “quantum jump” onto a higher plateau of civilization. Platt said new
methods of contraception must be developed for man to provide himself with maximum opportunities. Research should be directed toward finding
ways of supplying contraceptives in basic foodstuffs, like bread, for instance, Platt said. If the voting population of a country
approved this method of contraception, conceivably shoppers could buy their groceries at contraceptive and non-contraceptive stores. And the resulting children
would be wanted, not accidental progeny.

In his Tuesday assembly address, “Two Faces of Perception,” he discarded the old concept of objectivism—the idea that a man
may simply look at an object without becoming involved in what his eyes perceive. Instead, Platt dealt with the nature
of perception in the context of his view of man-as-an-animal totally bound to the world around him. True perception comes
only when man is involved with his environment.

Union Cafeteria’s ‘C’ Rating Brings Continuing Inquiries
By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Although state Health Department inspectors removed the Union cafeteria’s “C” rating certificate Nov. 22, inquiry into the food service situation
continued this week. Cafeteria Manager Klaus Kleeberg and Business Manager Robert A. Currie met with the Student Life Committee Tuesday
to discuss the situation.

“We discussed the cafeteria program and decided to set up a student food committee,” said senior Randy Phillips, a student
committee member. “This committee would meet with Mr. Kleeberg and provide a channel for student complaints and suggestions.”

Currie, Kleeberg and Samuel F. Boyte, assistant director of the College Union, agreed that food preparation was not at fault
in the low rating, blaming instead a “combination of factors.”

“The inspector came in during the after-breakfast cleanup when the cafeteria was in shambles,” Boyte said. He said an inspector
could either mark off for something or order it to be fixed without counting off percentage points in the inspection.
“The inspector came back last Friday and said there would be no problem with getting an ‘A’ rating,” Boyte said.

However, Sterling Abernethy, a member of the Union Board’s Food Service Committee, which submitted suggestions for improvement in the food
service earlier this fall, said the sanitation of the cafeteria was still bad. “Ice is still served in garbage cans
placed on the floor where dirt, spilled drinks and food and insects contaminate it,” he said. He added that he
saw water standing on the floors of the kitchen at night after the “C” rating was given, and mold growing
on stale desserts served after the “C” rating.

Currie said that the Oct. 29 report of the Union Food Service Committee was under study by college officials. He
and Kleeberg were to meet yesterday to look further at the report, which dealt with problems such as a better
snack bar and catering service as well as with the cafeteria itself. “However, the buck stops here; I'm responsible for
the entire food service area,” Currie said.

Davidson GE Bowl Team Bound
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

Davidson has officially accepted an invitation to participate in the General Electric College Bowl on April 6. As of Tuesday,
73 people had signed the list from which the Davidson team will be chosen. Representatives will be selected by an
elimination competition to be set up later, according to Sam Boyte, assistant director of the College Union.

Boyte said the Union collected signatures of students interested in participating in the program and presented the list to President
Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Monday. Spencer agreed that enough people had signed up, indicating sufficient support to go ahead with
plans. Spencer is expected to appoint a coach for the Davidson team soon.

The April academic bout with an as-yet-undetermined foe will be Davidson's second appearance on the nationally televised program. According to
Mrs. Janie French, secretary to the president, a team from Davidson participated in the series in 1959. Boyte said no
cutoff date has been set for signing the interest lists but interested students should sign up soon.

KLAUS KLEEBERG
Slater manager

Abernethy expressed hope that the new student committee could work out cafeteria problems. “I am confident that the committee can
help the situation 100 percent,” he said.

State ABC Board Nixes Beer And Wine Permit
Grocery Owner Plans To Appeal
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The state Board of Alcoholic Beverage Control in Raleigh has turned down a Davidson grocer’s request for a beer and
wine permit. In a letter this week to Mrs. Colleen Norket, owner of The Davidson Grocery on Depot Street, Enforcement
Division Director Lee H. Phillips said, “The establishment cannot be considered a suitable place and/or location for the sale of
beer and/or wine.”

PUBLICATION CEASES
This concludes publication for the first term. The next issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN will appear Jan. 10, 1969, and will
carry the usual six pages.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Administrative judgment," a state ABC official said in a telephone interview, "but a hearing before the whole board will be
granted if requested within 30 days." Mrs. Norket said she would ask for a hearing. "I sort of expected this
would happen," she said. "It looks like the only way to get a permit is to go through the whole
hearing process, which I intend to do, trying to delay this as long as possible, though."

The state board official explained the reasons for refusing the permit. "There was some controversy about this petition in Davidson.
We had a letter from the mayor asking us to turn it down, and then there was some question about
selling beer in the area of the college." If Mrs. Norket requests a hearing, the Raleigh office will set a
date for any interested parties to appear before the board to present their cases, the official said. A brief will
be drawn up after the hearing, and the state board will then make its final decision based on this information.

Mrs. Norket said she may further pursue the matter through administrative channels, which could entail additional expense. While she could
represent herself personally before the board, she said, it may become necessary to hire a lawyer to get the permit.
If Mrs. Norket receives a permit, it will allow for the sale of beer and wine only, and would be
the first permit issued for Davidson.

Cashion's Food Stores of Cornelius had to go through the entire hearing process before finally obtaining permission to sell beer
at their Huntersville store several years ago. Cashion’s was granted the permit in spite of a number of petitions opposing
alcohol sales there.

Elections Schedule

OFFICE ELECTED BY... DATE
SGA President SGA Jan. 21 (Senior)
SGA Vice President SGA Jan. 21 (Junior)
Editor, DAVIDSONIAN SGA Jan. 21 (Senior)
Editor, Quips and Cranks Seniors Jan. 21 (Senior)
Editor, Miscellany SGA Jan. 21 (Senior)
Referendum on Constitutional Convention SGA Jan. 21
College Regulations Court Each class Jan. 21 (All Classes) (1 per class)
Honor Court Each class Jan. 21 (All Classes) (2 per class)
YMCA President SGA Jan. 21 (Senior)
YMCA Vice President SGA Jan. 21 (Junior)
YMCA Secretary SGA Jan. 21 (Sophomore)
YMCA Treasurer SGA Jan. 21 (Sophomore)
Freshman Adviser (Senior) Rising Seniors Jan. 21
Class Senators Each class Jan. 28 (3 per class)
Convention members Each class Jan. 28 (8 per class, except 5 from Freshman)

NOTE: Filing deadline is the Tuesday before the election. Candidates must file with Frank Murphy in Duke 133.

Faculty To Study Chapel Proposals

By STEPHEN ROADY
Staff Writer

The recommendations on chapel policy made by the student Senate the week before Thanksgiving will not come before the faculty
until after the Christmas holidays, according to Associate Dean of Faculty J. H. Ostwalt and Dean of Students Richard C.
Burts Jr.

The three-point proposal offered by the Senate committee on chapel sessions recommended that assemblies be reduced to eight per term.
Four would be programs involving extra-campus speakers and the other four would be school-related programs. The Senate also recommended a
50 percent cut limit in chapel attendance and the formation of a committee composed of two senators, two members of
the Union Board, two students at large, the college chaplain, and one faculty member to plan and coordinate chapel sessions.

Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, the present assembly coordinator, said he was in general agreement with the recommendations offered by the Senate
committee.

College Receives $500,000 Grant

Davidson College has received a grant of $500,000 from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, it was announced today by Dr.
Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college. The funds will be added to Davidson's endowment, primarily to help it
meet the demands of the new curriculum, Spencer said.

"This addition to our endowment comes at a particularly important time if Davidson is going to meet its commitments to
a new generation," President Spencer commented. "Our new curriculum demands additional faculty members and great increases in our library stocks,
both of which require vastly increased financial resources."

The foundation has previously given Davidson $1,875,000 in endowment funds since 1964. In addition, the Reynolds family has established at
Davidson the R. J. Reynolds Memorial Professorship in Biology, the Mary Reynolds Babcock Professorship in History, the Virginia Irvin Professorship
in English, the R. J. Reynolds Jr. Distinguished Lectures Fund, the $250,000 Babcock Library Wing, the Kate B. Reynolds Fund,
as well as the support of many individuals associated with the Reynolds business and family interests, Dr. Spencer said.

Lecturers at Davidson have included Dr. Archibald MacLeish, Dean Ralph McGill, Dr. George Gamow, Dr. Arnold J. Toynbee, and others,
including this year Ralph Ellison and Dr. John R. Platt.

Czech Service Set For Today

A service of compassion and other expressions for the oppressed people of Czechoslovakia will be conducted by faculty and students
at 5 p.m. today in Lingle Chapel. "It will be a non-political, positively oriented worship service," explained Professor W. E.
Jackson, one of the organizers of the program. "We simply want to express through worship our compassion and concern for
the Czechs and other oppressed peoples as human beings." Jackson noted that the theme of the service is intended to
be harmonious with the Christmas season. "We would like anyone, regardless of religious affiliation, to attend if he so desires."

CHRISTMAS VESPERS

Davidson's annual Christmas Vespers Service will feature a "Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols," an ancient form of service for
group worship, at 7:30 p.m. Sunday in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The "Festival" form of service is widely used
in England and is growing in popularity in the United States, according to College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, who will lead
the worship. It was first used many years ago at King’s College Chapel, Cambridge, he said.

Three Seek Handbook Editorship

Three juniors are vying today in a junior class election for the editorship of the Wildcat Handbook. Seeking the post
are David Branch, Tom Hendren, and Allen Lewis. They were nominated by the Publications Board on Nov. 25 despite the
fact none has ever worked on the handbook.

Polls opened this morning in the lobby of Chambers at 7:50. Election Board Chairman Frank Murphy said they would remain
open until 2:40 this afternoon. Voting is limited to juniors. Two earlier attempts to hold the election on Nov. 20
and again two days ago were thwarted by a lack of interested candidates and a lack of communication between the
Publications Board and Murphy. The winning candidate today will name the other members of his staff.

---
