230 Freshmen Campus Fraternities

Some 230 freshmen accepted bids to Greek letter fraternities last weekend. They are:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Mark Baker, John Bolinger, Morton Chiles, Joe Coalter, Brad Danielson, Jimmy Edwards, Gary Fagg, Larry Flynn, Ken France, Rick Gourdin,
Steve Hall, Greg Harman, Jimmy Hawkins, Charles Katz, Reaves Louthan, Roger Mills, Lindsay Neill, Steve Nipe, Carl Nordstrom, Bill Reeves,
Homer Sutton, Mike Taylor, Jim Turanchik, Frank Wise, Bob Wood, Ted Woods, Jule Young, Steve Haigler, Doug Hickman.

BETA THETA PI
Doug Abele, Dick Allison, Jay Bowen, Charlie Brown, Doug Clark, Nelson Harrell, Harrison Higgins, Jim Hovis, Henry Marrow, John Moore,
Lewis Riley, Jimmy Trussell, Bill Warren, Steve Engstrom.

KAPPA ALPHA
Jim Bradley, Ran Coble, Jim Crouse, Jim Griffith, Edward Hay, Peter Lutken, Al McGraw, Andrew Pickens, Charlie Ralston, Will Ravenel,
Pat Reed, Jack Trotter, Robert Truitt, Pat Whalen.

KAPPA SIGMA
Dave Bugg, Scott Carter, Mike Cole, Chris Giles, John Harper, Tate Holbrook, Jim Bob Long, Bill McKenzie, Niebauer, Bryon Peterson.

PHI DELTA THETA
Leonard Baugham, Jack Caldwell, Jeff Chetwood, Richard Cowart, Harlan Day, Ed Dobbs, Nick Dumich, Gene Early, Bobby Harris, Jack Jacobs,
Alan Kirkpatrick, Rusty Lawrence, Jeff Loughridge, John McCammon, David Mockebee, Jim Newton, Keith Onsdorff, Duncan Postma, Walter Sprunt, Jack Steele,
Hampton Whittington, Bill Woodson, Jimmy Wright, James Brice.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Don Bailey, Dave Bradley, Jeff Brantley, Johnny Bryan, Jim Buchanan, Jerry Dean, Jack Gray, Bob Haggard, Steven Hemphill, Hal Iverson,
Stuart Kennedy, Stephen Kirley, Roy Lane, Sean McCormick, Mike Mikolayunas, Charlie Parks, Bruce Rogers, Tom Rogers, Paul Sawyer, Ricky Snipes,
John Taylor, Bill Telford, Ken Totherow.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Mark Affeldt, Jack Ballenger, John Brawner, David Buck, Bill Berry, Gary Cash, John Cowan, John Cronin, Hugh Dennis, Ken Dixon,
Clay Dorminey, Edgar Dunlap, Mike Elliott, Jim Gillespie, George Graff, Ned Hulbert, Duane Kirkman, Tim McCauley, Rick Lyon, Steve McNabb,
Bill Mills, William Pierce, Jeff Ritchie, Bobby Sanders, Tim Shuba, Brian Smith, Dave Stimpson, Floyd Strand, Jim Upchurch, George Wagoner,
Robert Whitt.

PI KAPPA PHI
Chris Bickley, Bill Bryce, Frank Kirtley, Gray Mason, Tom Rannick, Timothy Ricks, Cullum Rogers, Chris Stanley, Tom Vernon.

SIGMA CHI
George Allen, Bobby Ambrose, Herb Clegg, Keith Everett, Doug Haynes, Jim Hudson, Reif Kessler, Jimmy Luton, Windy March, Bill New,
Roger Peterson, Mike Read, Joel Roundtree, John Saunders, Joe Smith, Ron Steller, Walter Walker, John Walter, Rick Weddle.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Steve Epperson, Ethridge, Bugs Lester, Bob Meadows, Jimmy Monroe, Tom Morrill, Allan Oxman, Jeff Planer, Roger Powell, Teddy Ravenel, Weldon
Dwight, Schenck, Stuart Shelton, Bill Vass, David Wells.

SIGMA NU
Drew Ansley, Jimmy Beamguard, Robert Bolt, Mark Carr, Ben Cowan, John Freeman, Mark Hallenbeck, Dick Morrison, Jim Ross, Paul Rowland,
David Sams, Gil Terriberry, Roy Williams, John Heitmann.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
John Bruner, Joe Caffinas, Steve Callendar, Jim Cantrell, Roger Clark, David Cook, Phil Croy, Hunter Dalton, Chip Durant, Paul Fisher,
Robert Folger, Joe Gribble, Mike Hood, Rob Hoy, Rob Krehbiel, Glenn Mauney, Charles Page, Lyman Parrigin, Scott Wade, Shepherd, Dave
Shepler, Edwin Smoak, George Steele, Bill White, Bo Wood, Bill Youkey, John Yurhutat, Frank Rader, Greg Shackelford, Fred Shoaf, Skip.

Deans To Field Questions During ‘Campus Meeting’
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council is taking what it hopes will be a precedent-setting step Wednesday by sponsoring a “campus meeting” featuring
Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston and Dean of Students Richard C. Burts. Bill Watson, council member who arranged the
program, said Burts and Johnston will be available in the lounge of the College Union at 10 p.m. Wednesday to
answer any questions from students and to discuss current issues facing the college. Watson added that one of the trustees
who lives in Charlotte might be present for the meeting.

The meeting was originally scheduled for December, but it was canceled when Davidson President D. Grier Martin had to go
to the hospital for a series of tests. Martin was not invited to the meeting this time because the council
feared discussion might center upon the reasons for his forthcoming retirement as president.

“The emphasis will probably be on the new curriculum,” Watson said, “but such topics as chapel policy, open dorms, and
the drinking rule are also fit subjects for discussion.” He termed the meeting “an excellent opportunity for badly needed contact
between the students and the administration.” He also said he was making every effort to persuade one of the trustees
to attend the meeting “to promote a closer relationship between the students and those who ultimately make policy governing students’
lives.”

ROTC Brigade Officers Named

The ROTC Department recently announced the brigade officers for the spring semester. Lt. Col. Dick Lindsey, a senior from Spartanburg,
S.C., will command the cadet brigade. His staff will be Kirk Reed, executive officer; Kit Thompson, adjutant; Wayne Crumwell, intelligence
officer; Sam Hines, operations officer; and Bill Taylor, supply officer.

The first battalion will be commanded by Maj. Pete Glidewell. His staff will be Sam Hatcher, executive officer; Tom Earnhardt,
adjutant; Lowell Bryan, intelligence officer; Tom Cook, operations officer; and Charles Richards, supply officer.

Maj. Mike Carroll will command the second battalion. The staff will be Tom Rhodes, executive officer; Gray Pash, adjutant; Tupper
Morehead, intelligence officer; Larry Jones, operations officer; and Leslie Brown, supply officer.

Company commanders will be Ben Goodman, A Company; Ben Cannon, B Company; Walter Greene, C Company; Frank Powell, D Company;
Bob Finlayson, E Company; M.L. Cannon, F Company; Bo Perry, G Company; and Eddie Beach, H Company.

Martin Seeks Delegate Post

Dr. James G. Martin has been nominated as a delegate to the Republican national convention in Miami this summer. Two
delegates from this area will be elected at the district meeting tomorrow. Martin is currently chairman of the Mecklenburg County
Board of Commissioners.

Martin first became involved in party politics two years ago when he was a precinct delegate to the county convention
from Davidson. After being approached by the county organization, Dr. Martin led four Republicans to victory in the previously all-Democratic
Board of County Commissioners election.

When asked whom he would support at the convention, Martin replied that as of now, he personally favored former Vice-President
Richard M. Nixon. “However,” Martin added, “I will pledge my support to the man with the best possibility of winning.
Nixon will have to shake his ‘loser’ image.”

“Since North Carolina has no primary election,” Martin remarked, “there is no restriction on my vote as of yet.” Martin
added, however, that his vote could be committed by the executive board at the district meeting on Saturday.

Sunday Night Pledge

GOP Politician Blasts LBJ, Explores Republican Scene
By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

With the politician’s pleasant smile and studied evasiveness, SAE “Blow Up” speaker Robert Bonitati speculated about Richard Nixon's presidential chances,
gloated over President Johnson's credibility gap, and analyzed some of the important factors of a modern political campaign. He spoke
at a press conference at the College Union Tuesday.

Obviously enjoying himself, the northeast regional director of the National Republican Congressional Committee listed an increasing crime rate, ghetto problems
and riots, and President Johnson's personality as the factors most likely to bring about a change of administration in November.
He predicted Richard Nixon would win the New Hampshire primary in March in spite of an unexpectedly impressive showing by
George Romney, but added that the question of whom the Republicans will nominate would be unanswered until the convention meets
in Miami in July. He would not rule out Nelson Rockefeller as a possible candidate and refused to evaluate the
importance of primary victories in Nixon's fight for the nomination.

The husky, personable Bonitati, whose domain is 123 congressional districts in the northeast, especially those held by Democrats, said his
principal interest in the presidential campaign is in the effect it will have on congressional campaigns. “Many practical politicians (Democrats)
are afraid to have Johnson come into their states to campaign for the adverse effect he would have.”have on local
political races," he said. He went on to say that this year more and more congressional campaigns will be conducted
by methods which have not been used in the past. For instance, he listed the computer which allows much more
efficient mailing of campaign material and analysis of voting trends in congressional districts, television which brings the candidate almost personally
before the people, and the use of professional campaign management firms as important innovations in the modern political campaign. Bonitati
explained that his principal function in campaigns is to recruit potential candidates and assist them once they have been nominated.
"We try to stay out of nomination fights," he said. In recruiting, "we are looking for articulate, attractive, young candidates
who approach problems with a solution in mind," Bonitati said. "We need problem-solvers." He emphasized the young aspect of potential
candidates as especially important, as he said, "young candidates attract youthful voters and are not hampered by traditions and old
ties." The emergence of such young candidates will probably result in a "pragmatic platform" at the national convention this year,
he said, but refused to speculate on the actual contents of the platform. When asked if the traditional image of
the Republican Party as the party of big business is still valid, Bonitati said that this image is changing. "Statistically,
we are no longer the party of big business," he said. "In 1966 the average campaign contribution to the Republican
Party was $15." He termed the big business image "a very effective myth perpetuated by the other party."

Plans Filed For ROTC Next Year

Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, commander of the ROTC department, reported Tuesday that he had made recommendations to Dean of the
Faculty Frontis Johnston as to the handling of ROTC next year under the Blue Sky program. "The ROTC department has
made proposals to the Faculty Educational Policy Committee and will work out a program to fit Blue Sky as far
as the three-termed calendar is concerned," said Outlaw. Outlaw was hesitant about revealing his recommendations and called Dean Johnston to
find out whether the proposals had been considered.

Says Rush Successful

By DAVID SWEATT
Staff Writer

Interfraternity Council President Gus Cochran said this week a "good attitude" on the part of fraternities contributed to the success
of Rush Week. "It was basically a good rush and a good attitude," Cochran said, in summing up last week's
activities that resulted in the pledging of 230 rushees. Mechanically, rush ran smoothly, although some unnecessary meetings were held which
may be omitted next year, Cochran said. Cochran said he had noticed a more open attitude about bidding. He felt
the fraternities this year showed more concern for the rushee - how he could be helped by becoming a part
of the fraternity. This was accompanied by a declining interest in pledging rushees just because they were "slick," Cochran said.
Rushing during the week was largely within the rules, he said, except during the periods of silence. There were numerous
violations of silence by use of the telephone, he said. Cochran said the extended rush program is working satisfactorily at
this point. Of the 34 rushees who did not get bids, about 25 have accepted the alternative of extended rush.
Fraternity presidents planned to see these men individually this week to explain the opportunities open to them during the extended
rush period. The IFC will evaluate this year's rush and make recommendations for its improvement in future years. The extended
rush program will also be evaluated. This is in line with the requirements for evaluation included in the extended rush
legislation drafted by the chapter presidents last September. Dr. W. G. Workman, chairman of the faculty committee on the College
Union, Fraternities and Clubs, said that his committee would evaluate the extended rush throughout the semester.

Molar Due To Discuss Liberalism

Thomas Molar, a professor of French literature at Brooklyn College, will speak on the "Contemporary Liberal Content of the State"
in chapel on Thursday, Feb 22. In addition to his chapel speech, Molar will speak at a meeting of the
Conservative Club, which is sponsoring Molar's visit.

By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

For a few people, sophomore Steve Klein for instance, game hunting in Africa becomes a reality—not something one sees in
the movies or on television. Klein went with his family for a five-week combination sight-seeing and hunting trip last summer
to Africa, where they toured in Rhodesia and Kenya. The Kleins, from Spray, left Kennedy Airport in early August for
the two-day, 10,000-mile flight by jet to Rhodesia’s capital, Salisbury. Klein described Salisbury as modern, clean, well-kept, and industrialized—the people
were friendly and likable. While in Nairobi provisioning for the safari, the Kleins visited several game camps. In the game
camps, where hunting is forbidden, there are almost every type of animal. One of the camps that the Kleins visited
was the setting for the film, "Hatari" and the television show "American Sportsman." The highlight of the trip for the
Kleins was the 10 days that they spent hunting with guides. Their hunting was done on the plains in Kenya
where hunting laws restrict the number of people allowed to hunt in each of several sections. According to Klein, licenses
were given for the "Big 5" only to those who had been hunting for a length of time. Their safari
crew, about 15 cooks and skinners, moved ahead and prepared a camp for the safari. Klein described the food as
good, and consisted partly of the game shot. Some species that the party hunted were zebra, impala, and wildebeest. The
Kleins used 300 magnum rifles. The first kill was by Steve's brother who shot a zebra. According to Klein, the
most wily of the animals that they hunted was the wildebeest. It took them eight shots to kill. The Kleins
are having a zebra skin, wildebeest head, and an impala head and skin sent back, but it takes from eight
months to two years to get shipment to the states. The Kleins became interested in such a trip through the
reading that they have done about Africa. They hope to return in the future to hunt bigger game.

The Davidsonian
February 9, 1968
Page Three
