FRIEBELE BLASTS GROVER MEETZE (See Page Two) REPORT EXAMINES FRATERNITIES (See Page Three) The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1968 VOL. LVI NUMBER FIFTEEN Faculty Votes Changes In Calendar, Cut Policy One-Fourth Cut Limit Established The faculty voted in its meeting Tuesday to establish a new limit for chapel cuts beginning this semester. The new plan allows students to cut 25 per cent of the chapel programs. The schedule this semester calls for 36 chapel periods and, therefore, a limit of nine chapel cuts. The new system replaces the previous limitation, which provided for eight cuts for freshmen and sophomores and 12 for juniors and seniors. As a result, underclassmen will receive an extra cut this semester and juniors and seniors will lose three. The faculty made the decision in keeping with the proposal to place all classes and programs, including physical education, of the college under a 25 per cent cut system.

ACADEMIC CALENDAR, 1968-69
September 18-24 Orientation
September 23-24 Registration
September 25 Classes Begin
November 27 Thanksgiving Recess Begins, 5 p.m.
December 2 Thanksgiving Recess Ends, 8 a.m.
December 7 Pre-Exam Study Day
December 9 Fall Exams Begin
December 14 Fall Exams End, 5 p.m.
December 14 Christmas Vacation Begins
January 2 Classes Begin
March 12 Winter Term Ends, 5 p.m.
March 13 Pre-Exam Study Day
March 14 Winter Exams Begin, 8 a.m.
March 19 Winter Exams End, 5 p.m.
March 19 Spring Vacation Begins, 5 p.m.
March 24 Spring Term Begins, 8 a.m.
May 24 Class Day (Friday Classes)
May 29 Spring Term Ends, 5 p.m.
May 30 Pre-Exam Study Day
May 31 Spring Exams Begin, 8 a.m.
June 5 Spring Exams End, 5 p.m.
June 7-8 Final Exercises

Rusk Not Officially Contacted By ROBBIE HOOKER Managing Editor Secretary of State Dean Rusk, mentioned as a possible successor to President D. Grier Martin, has not been approached by the college about the job, the chief State Department press officer said this week. Robert J. McCloskey, deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs, also said in a telephone interview that Rusk had at no time given any indication as to when he might resign from the State Department.

Council Selects Advisory Group By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer The Student Council Tuesday selected four students to serve on a committee to consult with the trustee committee during the process of choosing Davidson’s new president. Chosen were Tom Earnhardt, Bobby Lane, Joe Kilpatrick, and Rich Cowart. They will serve in an advisory capacity in conjunction with a faculty committee of six members. The council formed the committee in response to a letter from Walter L. Lingle Jr., president of the Board of Trustees and a member of the trustee selection committee, authorizing them to choose up to four students to aid the trustee committee in finding a successor to Dr. D. Grier Martin, retiring president of the college.

Faculty To Assist In Selection The faculty has elected the six-man advisory committee to the Trustee Selection Committee for a new college president. The committee members are Dr. William McGavock, chairman, and Drs. C. E. Ratliff, Locke White, John Kelton, Malcolm Lester, and T. O. Pinkerton. Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston said that the purpose of the faculty advisory committee is “to suggest names and talk about the general characteristics they ought to look for” in a new college president. To what degree these men will contribute to the selection has not yet been specified, Johnston said. In addition to Lingle, other members of the trustee selection committee, which will make all final decisions, are William F. Mulliss of Charlotte, secretary; Dr. Warner Hall of Charlotte; and Charles F. Myers Jr. of Greensboro. Because over 50 students applied to serve on the committee, the council first appointed a nominating committee of seven students, both on and off the council, who interviewed the students and selected 15 from whom the final four were chosen by the council. Earnhardt and Lane are seniors. Earnhardt has served as president of the student body this year, and Lane was a student member of the Blue Sky Committee, which devised major curriculum changes for next year. Kilpatrick is president of the sophomore class and has worked with the Student Exchange Committee this year. Cowart is a McConnell Scholar and a member of the Freshman Council. The council tried to select “the four best qualified people,” according to Earnhardt, without paying attention to the number from each class. The first action of the student committee was to send a letter to Lingle asking him to clarify the exact role students will play in the selection.

Rusk, a 1931 Davidson graduate, is apparently one of several men on a growing list of candidates to succeed Martin, who resigned last month. Despite McCloskey’s denial of any approach to Rusk by college representatives, it has been reported in local newspapers that Rusk is being considered for the presidency. Some of the other men that have been suggested include: Samuel Reid Spencer Jr., ‘40, president of Mary Baldwin College and former assistant to the president and dean of students here; Carleton Burke Chapman, ‘36, a Rhodes Scholar and dean of the Dartmouth Medical School; Frontis W. Johnston, ‘30, dean of the faculty of Davidson. Also, Walter L. Lingle, ‘28, president of the Board of Trustees and vice-president of Proctor and Gamble; Robert Currie, ‘47, college treasurer and business manager; and former N. C. Gov. Terry Sanford. Rusk’s only previous experience in the field of education was in 1934-40, when he was associate professor of government and dean of the faculty at Mills College, a woman’s college in Oakland, Calif. He has held the top post in the State Department since 1960. Prior to that he held (See RUSK, Page Six)

Cobb Will Speak

Grading System Altered By BOB DUNHAM News Editor The faculty voted Tuesday to accept a series of sweeping changes in calendar, cut and grading systems, chapel programs and interdisciplinary courses. The decisions reached climaxed months of study in coordination with next year's implementation of the Blue Sky curriculum. After consideration of several proposed calendars to fit the three-term Blue Sky program, the faculty approved a calendar of three equal 10-week periods. Under the calendar, classes will begin in late September. Examinations for the fall term will be completed prior to the Christmas vacation. The winter term will commence on Jan. 2, and will be completed in late March. Dr. Joseph Drake, professor of sociology and chairman of the faculty Academic Scheduling Committee, said the faculty realized that the Jan. 2 starting date was the same date that raised student protests earlier this year and was ultimately changed. After a five-day spring vacation, the spring term will begin late in March and will be terminated during the first week of June. Commencement will end the school year on June 7 and 8. Several faculty members said that the vote for acceptance of the new calendar was quite close, but declined to comment on the reasons for disagreement. In another move Tuesday the faculty voted to replace the current grading system with one involving wider grade ranges and a four-pointscale. Under the new system, a grade of "A" will require an average of 90-100; a grade of "B", 80-89; "C", 70-79; "D", 60-69; and an "F" will be given for any average below 60. It was also recommended and accepted that three types of reports be made available on each student's performance: —Quality points on a 4 (See FACULTY, Page Six) the academic e ee 88 ONLY GOD CAN MAKE A TREE But man can cut it down. And workmen moved in Monday on a 130-year-old oak in front of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. The giant oak felled was one in the famous Oak Row, believed planted in the college’s original quadrangle in 1837 or 1838. The old tree, a favorite backrest during lawn concerts for generations of Davidson students, narrowly missed hitting the Fine Arts Building. (Staff Photo by Weems).

Vote On Constitution Slated For Feb. 13
By GEORGE ALLEN
Staff Writer

The Constitution Revision Committee reported to the Student Council Tuesday with the new student body constitution, which will be presented to the students Tuesday and voted on Tuesday, Feb. 13. The proposal requires a 2/3 majority of those voting to be adopted. The purpose of the new constitution is, as the new preamble reads, "to share with the Board of Trustees, the Faculty and the Administration the responsibility for developing and maintaining Davidson as a superior academic community."

"We have made over 40 changes (in the constitution) in response to suggestions from both students and faculty members," said Franklin Anderson, secretary of the committee.

Return Of Bids Ends Rush Week
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Returning accepted bids to the Interfraternity Council tomorrow afternoon at 2 will culminate the week's rush activities. "Rush has gone rather well," said IFC President Gus Cochran. "The informal rush during the first semester was very relaxed, without much competitive pressure, which was good for the upperclassmen."

Six one-hour rush parties were held at each fraternity from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. Monday and Tuesday nights. Redate cards were sent out early Wednesday for further parties on Thursday and Friday nights.

Related Story See Page Three

Elections Ahead For Union, Social Council, ‘Miscellany’
By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

Elections will be held next week to vote on the editor of "The Miscellany," president of the Union Board, and chairman of the Social Council, with another election to be held in the near future to vote on several amendments to the constitution.

Candidates for the editor of "The Miscellany" are George House from Robersonville and Fred Lowrance of Asheville. The Publications Board will meet Monday, according to Sam Boyte, its president, to approve two more candidates, Al Jasper of Oreland, Pa., and Bill Smythe of Greensboro.

Ed Embree, now vice-president of the Union Board, is unopposed for the presidency of the board, while Charles Cameron, social chairman of the Union Board, is unopposed for chairman of the Social Council. Tom Earnhardt, president of the Student Council, has told Embree that the two candidates will probably be allowed to run unopposed in next week's elections.

When Tom Baker ran unopposed for the editor of "The Wildcat Handbook" earlier this year, the Student Council put off the election because of insufficient notification to all students of the available candidacy. Elections are tentatively set for sometime next week. Because of a new by-law, polls will be open from 7:50 a.m. to 2:40 p.m., with four voting tables set up, one for each class.

Also, in the near future an election will be held to vote on three amendments to the constitution, all dealing with the student body regulations in Article IX. These amendments will be presented and explained at the next chapel, and elections will be held between five and 10 days afterwards.

Bids will be available to rushees at 10 a.m. tomorrow at Hodson Hall; freshmen accepting bids must return them by 2 p.m. tomorrow. The organization of the various rush parties at individual fraternities varied. At Phi Gamma Delta, rushees were met by three girls in colorful muumuus, who gave out imitation leis and kissed each boy. However, one freshman rushee said, "That was the most sexless kiss I ever got."

Cochran and Ben Cannon, who is chairman of the IFC's rush committee, spoke to the rushees at a special chapel Monday morning. Cochran advised the 276 rushees to be themselves, to be relaxed and courteous, to try to present themselves and to use a firm handshake. At Sigma Chi, rushees were shown a short slide presentation, not without its humor, on the fraternity’s social life. Cochran said Wednesday that there had been no "dirty rush" violations during the week.

"These revisions have been made," he continued, "in order to clarify and tighten up the wording of the first draft." Copies of the Constitution will be distributed to all students Monday, and a voluntary meeting of the student body has been called for Monday afternoon to fulfill the requirement for reading the proposal to the students. In addition, an open forum is scheduled for Thursday, and members of the Constitution Revision Committee will be available to meet with any group that wishes to discuss the constitution. Freshman hall meetings are also being scheduled for next week.

In addition to the revisions in phrasing, the new draft also contains additions to the old document. It requires that the president of the Student Government Association (SGA) be a senior and that the vice president be a junior. Within the Bill of Rights is a new guarantee that a student's activities outside the classroom will have no effect on any evaluation he may receive for academic work. A joint student-faculty committee will be created to protect students from unfair academic evaluation. A new freedom of privacy clause guarantees students the right to keep their academic, personal and political records in confidence, barred to "specified inquirers." The area dealing with due process has been extensively rewritten and strengthened. Within this area, the rights of the student accused of violating the Honor Code are listed methodically to reduce confusion.

‘Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, February 3
All Day Track
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball — Davidson vs. Brevard
8 p.m. Basketball — Davidson vs. West Virginia
Lexington, Va. — VMI Relays
Charlotte Coliseum
Charlotte Coliseum

Sunday, February 4
7 p.m. Student Worship Service — Dr. Thomas Clark
Lingle Chapel

Tuesday, February 6
8 p.m. Basketball — Davidson vs. Furman
Greenville, S. C.
7 p.m. Blow Up '68
Greenville, S. C. — Davidson vs. Furman
SAE House — Dr. Robert Bonitati

Thursday, February 8
10:20 a.m. Chapel — Dr. James D. Glasse
Love Auditorium — Vanderbilt Divinity School
8:15 p.m. Artist Series — Charlotte Symphony Orchestra
Love Auditorium — Edith Peinemann, violin soloist