Page Six (Continued From Page 1)

picketing which had until Tuesday accompanied the boycott, but said that it had brought “a number of serious problems out in the open.”

“It’s not the best way of dealing with this problem (the barber shop), the immediate problem. It’s not going to make Ralph Johnson change his mind,” said Abbott. Abbott termed the Monday night deadline “unrealistic in light of the particular legal problems involved.”

Freshman Gary Cash, one of the two Senators voting against the resolution, expressed doubts concerning the methods used. “I felt we would be more hurting his family than his belief,” he said. Freshman President Ed Dobbs, who voted for the resolution, also had the same reservations. “A lot of students are playing games with another man’s livelihood,” he said.

April 12, 1968

Picketing

Picketing took on a picnic-like air for some (top, left) after Davidson police ordered all spectators to the campus side of the street (below). Martin Luther King’s “I have a dream” meanwhile seemed to catch the imagination of George Moskos (top, right). (Staff Photos by Robinson)

Alpha’ Reaches To Omega As Valuable Entertainment

A REVIEW

The success of “Alpha, an entertainment” is perhaps best indicated by the curtain call it received Tuesday in chapel, from a usually sleepy captive audience which responded heartily to this unique production.

Exactly what “Alpha” was is still undetermined, but from the initial chaotic tangle of arms and legs it was indeed unique. It was a storm of stage effects unleashed upon an unsuspecting audience, the dexterous use of the human form to tell a story and then the contrast of the beautiful and the vulgar, the ridiculous and the sublime, to point a grim finger toward the outcome of that familiar story.

A production which can at once incorporate Tolstoy and Playtex brassieres, or “America” followed by Country Joe and the Fish, has an inherent diversity about it and enough satiric barbs to amuse any observer of our civilization.

There was a message behind it all, and Tuesday’s chapel audience seemed aware of it as the battle sequence brought “Alpha” back to the chaos in which it began: it was an essentially humorous delivery of a not-so-funny reminder of our age.

If it is necessary to label “Alpha,” call it a revue; a cross between “Beyond the Fringe” and the Rowan and Martin Laugh-In which is intended to keep the audience off guard. The juxtaposition of the comic and ghastly is a new technique in both movies and the theatre, and under the direction of Mr. Rupert Barber, the Drama 32 Class showed it can work.

Its creation by the class was a product of brainstorming, the selection and rejection of random ideas from sixteen fertile imaginations which then integrated what they conceived into a unified production. Dr. Barber foresees more of this sort of original work, which entailed not only the acting of twelve of the class’ members, but the extremely able sound and light work of four more.

If it is true that a committee never created a work of art, then this is not art—but regardless, and as Tuesday’s presentation demonstrated, it opens an exciting new dimension for the theatre.

OPEN HOUSE

The following homes will be open this Sunday at 8: Locke White 203 Lorimer

Medical Symposium Set For Monday, Tuesday

A Symposium on Contemporary Problems in Medicine sponsored by the Chaplain’s Office, the Y.M.C.A. and the Davidson Methodist Church, will be held at Davidson College on Monday and Tuesday.

Featured lecturers include the Rev. Ronald W. McNeur, Ph.D., of the Board of Christian Education of the United Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., Dr. Delford L. Stickel, famous kidney transplant surgeon from Duke University and the Rev. Hardon L. Smith, assistant professor of Christian ethics at Duke Divinity School.

On Monday evening at 8:15 in Love Auditorium, McNeur will present the opening lecture on “Contemporary Problems in Medicine.” McNeur will also speak on “Science and Meaning” in chapel Tuesday. Tuesday evening at 8:15 Stickel and Smith will explore the controversial ethical problems of organ transplantation. Speakers will meet with pre-medical majors Tuesday afternoon at 3:30 in Dana Science Laboratories, Room 114.

Driesell May Sell His Den

Davidson Basketball Coach Lefty Driesell revealed Wednesday night that he may sell either whole or part interest in his Wildcat Den, a Davidson restaurant.

“I might sell it if I find the right person to sell it to,” Driesell said. “The problem is that I can’t seem to find a person to manage the place.”

“If I could find someone who would serve as manager I might sell him a part interest, or I might sell him the whole thing.” Driesell continued. “Right now I just don’t know.”

Driesell bought the restaurant last September from Mrs. Margaret Pratt, who had formerly operated the College Restaurant in the building.

Applicants (Continued From Page 1)

“more impersonal than Davidson,” said Rick Michaels of Halifax, Va. “They seem to take a greater interest in the people here.”

“I like the atmosphere here. That’s the most striking thing about the college,” added Ronnie Williams of Fayetteville.

On the other hand, opinions about the availability of social life at Davidson varied among the students. “If you think about the proximity of girls’ schools around here,” said Raymond Swetanburg of Gainesville, Ga., “it isn’t too bad.” But Donald Powell of King of Prussia, Pa., said that he thought the campus was “quiet, almost too quiet.” He added, “Davidson seems kind of isolated, and Charlotte isn’t really that big of a city. You can’t domuch in a city that size." The applicants’ attitude toward the college's admissions policy on Negroes was summed up by one student who said, “It isn't flexible enough. It’s pretty much in line with the whole attitude here — markedly conservative.”

YRs Attack Rights

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

GARRETT ELECTED

The Young Republicans Club passed resolutions calling for an end to the rights of students within colleges and universities in their monthly meeting last Wednesday. YRC officers were also elected for next year. None of the candidates faced opposition. Those elected were Sen Garrett, president; Brevard Wallace, vice-president; Hunter Dalton, treasurer; Tom Wheatley, secretary; Bill Vass, assistant secretary.

The petition on student rights asserts that students enter into a contractual relationship with the college voluntarily in which their only right is to demand fulfillment of the agreement, which is that the college supply educational opportunities of higher caliber. The college is entitled to dictate the use of its property by setting academic standards, entrance requirements, curfews, or any other regulations it sees fit.

In the draft petition, abolition is urged on the grounds that a voluntary army would be more efficient and better able to cope with the demands of modern warfare.

Saturday, April 13
7:30 p.m. Hungry I
Sunday, April 14
8 p.m., Vespers
Monday, April 15
Night
8 p.m. Movie
8:15 p.m. Lecture
Tuesday, April 16
10:25 a.m. Chapel
8 p.m. Travelogue
10 p.m. Open End
Wednesday, April 17
10:25 a.m. Chapel
Televised Debate Davidson vs. Wake Forest
Up ‘n’ Coming
Morrison Room
College Church
Organ Recital — Mr. Wilmer Welsh
3 p.m. Symposium on Contemporary Problems in Medicine
Morrison Room
Channel 42
Morrison Room
“Juliet of the Spirits”
Love Auditorium
Dr. McNeur—“Research, Education, Health Services”
Love Auditorium
Dr. McNeur—“Science and Meaning: The Need for Ethics Now”
7 p.m. French Films
Dome Room
Ovens Auditorium
“Hawaiian Paradise”
College Union
Col. Ollie Faison
Love Auditorium
Vereen Bell Awards and Speaker
7 p.m. German Films
10 p.m. Movie
Dome Room
Morrison Room
“Juliet of the Spirits”
Thursday, April 18
8 p.m. Movie

CRAP (Continued From Page 1)

not only the specific rules governing student conduct but also the philosophy upon which the rules are based. Its preamble says the purpose of the proposed code is “to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibition.”

The report consists of four parts: the Davidson College Code of Responsibility, including the preamble; the Judiciary section; the Philosophy of Discipline; and the amendment procedure.

“This code is speaking through a philosophy of behavior rather than through specific injunctions,” said senior Mike Carroll, chairman of the committee. According to the report, an elaborate system of rules such as Davidson presently has “might promote a surface conformity to the standards of behavior desired, but would not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the college.”

Specific rules are included in the code “only when they seem necessary to prevent actions which would infringe upon the freedoms and well-being of others, or would endanger persons or property, or would be disruptive of community life.”

The first four parts of the code present philosophic statements concerning the academic, financial, and social responsibilities of the student and the nature of the honor system. The fifth section states the students’ responsibility with regard to the property and rights of others.

The CRAP report will be presented to the Student Life Committee for review this week. An Open End will be held next Wednesday so that students and faculty members can question members of the CRAP committee on specific parts of the report. The report will be submitted by the Student Life Committee to both the students and the faculty for approval in the near future. If it receives the approval of both groups, it will be presented to the trustees for consideration at their May meeting.

According to Carroll, the code would be an “extra-constitutional document,” which will require minor changes in both the student and faculty constitutions to become effective. The CRAP Committee, which has been working on the report since last November, was originally appointed by the Student Council. It consists of Carroll, Clay Ford, Tom Clayton, Woody Faulk, David Clemmons, Joe Murphy, faculty members A. J. McKelway and R. D. Kaylor, and member-at-large Will Terry.

Bylaws (Continued From Page 1)

mer Honor Court, and allow students living in the Davidson area to serve. The court would consist of five members, rather than the former nine, and would be subject to the Court of Appeals. A section on rights of the accused would grant any person accused of a violation which could mean suspension the following rights not previously guaranteed:

—The accused is not required to take reviews or examinations between presentation of the charges and two days after the verdict.
—The original trial of a case is to be observed by a member of the Senate.
—The defense adviser is not allowed to testify against a student.
—The accused may arbitrarily challenge two members of a court with six or more members, and one member of a court of less than six.

For a Big Spring Frolics Weekend try our fine selection of SHIRTS in Solids, Stripes and Checks.

Bush Wilson, Ltd.