Che Davidsanian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Roger Hooker Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO Mike Johnson Business Manager
FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 1968

Ducking The Challenge

Lefty Driesell wasn't the only Davidson man squirming in his seat a couple of weeks back when Carolina went to the NCAA basketball finals in Los Angeles. You see, Charlie Scott, Carolina's crackerjack sophomore guard, nearly came to Davidson. And the way Driesell and a lot of other folks had it figured, if Scott had been a Wildcat and not a Tar Heel, Davidson and not Carolina would've been in LA. But Charlie Scott is a Negro, and that probably had a lot to do with his last-minute decision to play ball elsewhere.

Davidson is no place for a Negro. Until a few years ago, they were barred from admission here by official college policy, and even now they might as well be. Social benefits, limited to whites, are practically nil for blacks. There is apparently no overt hostility shown to the current Negro students, but then nobody is going out of his way to make them feel welcome either. And worst of all, despite their scant number here, the college seems content to sit back and shrug it off. It won't work. Davidson can no longer ignore the Negro and other minority groups. A new day is coming for America, and especially the South, when Negroes will no longer be second-class citizens. A good college would accept the change as it materializes, a great college would anticipate it and help it along. But Davidson is doing neither. Negroes are not coming here, for obvious reasons, and nobody is doing anything to rectify the situation. There are qualified Negro students in the South, but we don’t get them because they go elsewhere—to Carolina, Duke, the Ivy League. We must go out after them, and once they are here, we must do more to ensure that they stay. Then if we do all that, maybe the next time a Charlie Scott comes along, we'll get him instead.

Progressive Anachronism

Events this week have pointed out that Davidson is still a small Southern college in a small Southern town, despite that placebo of intellectual progressiveness that we so often put on. The anachronism of a barber shop in this little community owned and staffed by Negroes that serves only whites and black students is a throwback to the days of the Confederate soldier. The student body will decide the issue. If students refuse to patronize Johnson’s Barber Shop, the boycott will succeed because of the economic power of the students. If most students do not observe the boycott, Johnson's policy of racial discrimination, and the status quo in the rest of the town, will become firmly fixed for years to come. Now we will see if Davidson students live in the South of today or are laboring under the delusions of 100 years ago.

Behind Dorm Doors

The proposal for open dorms so widely distributed on campaign platforms and so readily forgotten afterwards has some definite merit. If for no other reason, it could be adopted as the only sure method of guaranteeing the periodic cleaning of dormitory rooms—a much more efficient way than the sporadic emptying of waste baskets by the college’s janitorial staff. There are, of course, other advantages which might accrue from the adoption of such a proposal in addition to increasing the efficiency of the janitorial system. For instance, there is the matter of privacy, a rather unknown situation for a Davidson student and his date while on campus. Those who have ever sought privacy in the College Union or in a fraternity house know the hopelessness of the situation. Though the college provides a great variety of wide open spaces, the less hardy and those who merely wish to talk to their date or listen to their own choice of music would certainly find the open dorms proposal agreeable. The case for open dorms is not as strong for a school like Davidson as it is for a coeducational institution, but such a proposal is feasible and probably desirable. But accompanying a program like this is the old shibboleth of “student responsibility.” For the program to operate effectively students must display a certain level of maturity, a level which recent episodes of fire in the dorms seem to demonstrate to be as yet unattained. Finally, if such a program is adopted, it must allow a large measure of student freedom in implementing it. The open dorms arrangement is worthless unless the student is made responsible for his own conduct rather than being monitored by an expanded security force. The issues of student responsibility and freedom will have to be faced if the proposal is seriously considered. But, then, is anyone seriously considering it?

The Same Old Song

Looking for some excitement? Some controversy? Some hard-hitting, forthright discussion of the issues this political year? Then don't try the North Carolina gubernatorial campaign. So far the five candidates have provided all the excitement of a dull chapel speaker. What started out as the state's most promising campaign in decades just hasn't materialized. Last fall, when it all started, it looked like a natural. In one corner, the headline-hogging, brash James’ Gardner versus the calm, collected yarn dealer, John Stickley—the first honest-to-goodness Republican primary in memory. In the other, dairy farmer Robert Scott, tagged with the “liberal” label but acting quite the opposite, versus Melville Broughton, labeled “Old School" whether he liked it or not—both sons of former Democratic governors. And somewhere in the middle, Dr. Reginald Hawkins, the Negro dentist who represents a faction no matter how you cut it. But somehow all that promise and potential just hasn't panned out. Oh, issues are being discussed all right, but they are the same issues candidates have parroted for years. Coming out for better schools, better roads and lower taxes has been fashionable for some time. Meanwhile, the state's important problems—race, unemployment, the cities—are being ignored. As a political science professor at the University of North Carolina observed the other day, the candidates seem fixed on “God and motherhood with no tax raise." Hawkins is in fact the only candidate so far with the honesty and fortitude to express his convictions. The others are only clinging to platitudes. It’s a sorry state of affairs when candidates for the state's highest office behave like Gardner, Stickley, Scott and Broughton have been behaving. Government in this state has never been much to crow about, and after watching this campaign, it's hardly surprising.

Hershey Barred

Credit Eugene McCarthy with the best idea yet in the 1968 Presidential campaign. Draft Director Lewis B. Hershey, McCarthy says, should be canned. It's not that he isn’t getting the manpower to arm our national defense, Hershey always gets his man—and usually more. And all the while he's spewing forth with that distorted philosophy of his, glowing in the knowledge that he controls the lives of most of America’s young males. As Sen. McCarthy put it “Men like Hershey must be replaced by administrators who understand that the object of the draft is to defend democracy, not to suppress free speech. It's men like McCarthy we need in high national office. Men like Hershey we can well do without.

The Drinking Rule: ... and say he doesn’t exist.

LETTERS

One View

ROTC Not ‘Deal’ To Some-Pancake

To The Editor:

ROTC is a good deal for those who take the advanced program. Fifty dollars a month, a good chance at a deferment for graduate school, status as an officer in the Army and a good chance to stay out of combat—it is a good way to go if you are going into the Army, and want to be an officer. But what benefits are derived from ROTC by the student who does not go into the advanced program? The benefits, for him, do not make quite as long a list. His participation is more like running in the Cake Race and wearing a freshman beanie. He is required to participate in a course which takes away from the time which he can spend on his academic subject.

For Davidson Needs New Blood-Grad

ED NOTE:The following is a March 16 letter to Willie Julian F. Mullins, a Charlotte trustee who is a member of the trustee presidential nominating committee. The author is a former editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Dear Mr. Mullins,

The recent letter by David Gantt, reprinted from Mr. Hemphill, has prompted me to write you, not to alter any specific nominating to fill the vacancy left by Dr. Martin but to suggest an idea that might be useful in choosing a successor.

During a recent visit to Davidson, I observed that all the names being mentioned as possible candidates for the presidency had one trait in common: they have all been associated with the college in one way or another. I have observed this same tendency in the past, as one unfailingly looks for a Davidson graduate to fill vacancies that may occur. While there is nothing wrong with being a Davidson grad (I take great pleasure in being one myself), it seems to me that it could be quite profitable for the college to bring in "new blood" that is not familiar with the college and its way of doing things. Such an individual would doubtless feel less constrained in implementing trends in higher education when they conflict with the existing procedures at the college.

What the committee should look for, I think, is a professional educator who has been involved with some of the more innovative programs that have been undertaken at other colleges that share with Davidson certain basic similarities.

Thank you for your interest and consideration, and good luck in finding a successor. I don’t envy the task of finding a replacement for Dr. Martin.

Sincerely,
Louis L. Lesesne Jr., ‘67
USS Raleigh

Sound And Fury Signify Nothing
By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Call it what you will. “Manner of Speaking,” “Toward More Picturesque Speech,” “Notes and Comment,” “Pots and Pans, Top of My Head.” Words strung together, sometimes with a high degree of art and style, sometimes not. Like these quotes, from George Core’s introduction to “Regionalism and Beyond,” an edited volume of the essays of Randall Stewart:

"It is easy to imagine Stewart having a glass of champagne and a cigar in the celestial grass with Melville and Hawthorne, and joining them in the comic songs Melville speculated about writing in paradise. One can hear them talking far into the night — as Melville and Hawthorne once did in the sacred precincts of Mrs. Hawthorne's sitting room — about all possible and impossible matters; and if he listens long and well, one might hear Hawthorne and Stewart applauding Melville as he repeats, ‘I stand for the heart! To the dogs with the head!’”

And again, this time from a letter by Ray McMillin to THE DAVIDSONIAN:

“My immature friends, you are quick to pounce on hypocrisy in others wherever you can ferret it out while you blandly allow yourselves the freedom to practice hypocrisy of the grossest sort.”

From “The Education of Henry Adams,” by Henry Adams:

“The chief wonder of education is that it does not ruin everybody concerned in it, teachers and taught.”

But Shakespeare said it best... “full of sound and fury, / Signifying nothing.”

Two years he goes through the rigmarole of ROTC. Why does he stumble around the soccer field every week? There is really only one reason—to make sure that the students who wish to may receive fifty dollars that month, to ensure that very few of them go to Vietnam. He is required to participate as a guinea pig for the advanced students, because under the present arrangement with the Army, the college is required to provide Indians for those who decide that they want to become chiefs.

I’m not opposed to seeing people get good deals from the Army, but I question whether it is the duty of Davidson College to require all students to help the advanced ROTC students secure the benefits from that program. I question whether a student should be required to use his time for two years to learn to take apart an obsolete rifle, to write an operations order, to smell arms.

The Army argues that it is impossible to determine which students will take advanced ROTC when they are freshmen, and therefore all students should be required to get a dose of the Army before they make this decision. Few freshmen even think about the advanced program, because the Army directs its indoctrination program at the sophomores—not the freshmen. I would also guess that few sophomores take the advanced course because of their experience with the basic program.

I can only hope that the trustees will accept the faculty's Blue Sky recommendation that the college get out of the business of providing warm bodies for ROTC.

John Panetta, '69
Davidson College

The Fall Of Ivy-Covered Walls by Old-Time Religion
From "Time Magazine":

Your article on old-time Protestant religion in the South, as viewed by Erskine Caldwell (March 22), struck home. I teach at our rural state-supported college. A sizable portion of the student body comes from homes that belong to preachers, deacons, or elders, so that sometimes the school has an aura of a Bible institute. Students are very dependent upon their parents concerning all aspects of their social and economic life. The result is an immature, apathetic student who is virtually unable to think independently. With the aid of mid-Victorian rules and regulations, the schools further quash any hope there might be for the students to break free. As a result, the mores of the South change slowly, and social progress continues to drag far behind.

Edward W. Hodge,
Boone, N.C.

Whipping Hill Post
By BOB REID
Associate Editor

The Prospect Of Activism

In the past few years, columnists in this newspaper have served as wise sages who make profound and meaningful statements on the world around them. Students read their words with the same awe and humility with which they listen to the wisdom of past ROTC professors. Well, not exactly. Wisdom and I met once in a booth at Hattie’s, but the encounter was brief and I haven't seen him since. But every now and then, as long as the powers let me write, I hope to present some interesting interviews with a variety of people, from revolutionaries to Vietnamese students, with a few barbs and comments thrown here and there.

Whenever I put off the column until the last minute, there will be the old bull that college newspapers thrive on. And far be it from me to fail to make mock out of some features of life around here. It will be a dry day at Hattie’s when people around here don't take time to attack some of the anachronistic features of life in the piedmont pines. Students have been attacking such relics as a dry campus, closed dorms, and in loco parentis longer than Sgt. Rock has been in the Army. But just like Vietnam saved comic book writers from fighting Germany for 25 years, so the recent barber shop controversy has saved the critics from rehashing the old issues. At last students will be spared another lecture on the desirability of liquor in the water fountains or the need for more drink machines in the dorms.

According to the Charlotte Observer, students here are becoming more sympathetic to the struggles of the Afro-Americans. But the result of the barber shop controversy will speak with more authority than any newspaper. If students are actually interested in protecting human rights, they will honor the boycott. But I’m afraid that students are basically conservative when their own personal habits are at stake. I have heard too many students pledge to honor the boycott until they need a haircut—and then no more. For them, the prospect of an afternoon under Hood Norton’s shears holds little appeal. Some of the boycott leaders are talking about providing barbers in the dorm or Union for a few hours each week. They also plan to provide transportation to other barber shops in the area.

But if the boycott should prove successful, the results will have far-reaching effects. Expect to see more activism among the Negroes in Davidson and among students here. Maybe even Davidson will be swept up by the activism that has covered some colleges for years.

“Next gentleman, please,”
(Cartoon by College Press Service)