The Davidsanian
December 6, 1968
Page Three

Higher Ranking Means Two More Pages Of Rules

While the students were away for the Thanksgiving break, we stayed and won our first game with VMI. Besides our first victory, we also were issued rules to live by in the form of three mimeographed sheets carefully stapled together. Under the titles of “Dress and Behavior Rules,” “Bench Behavior,” and “Training Rules,” each page enumerated with considerable detail the difference between right and wrong. Last year we only received one printed sheet of rules. I guess being ranked fourth merits two more pages this year.

The first page under “Dress and Behavior Rules” has 16 items listed. Keeping our hair cut and neat, and going to the barber shop at least once every two weeks should certainly help the Davidson community economy. Shaving daily is also another rule, but if the team wants to, we all can grow beards and mustaches with the only condition being that we all look alike. Still, Lefty is safe, since some of us would come out looking like Abraham Lincoln while others couldn't get much more than a little “peach fuzz” around their chins.

Item number three states that we are to “Dress neatly and wear socks and clean clothes at all times.” Coupled with item 14 which states that we are to “dry our hair well before going out in cold weather, and wrap up good, seeing Coach Couch at the first sign of a cold,” I recall my good old eighth grade hygiene class. I wonder when the sex education classes are?

Item number four and 16 should make the administration and faculty happy. “Attend all required assemblies, chapels, etc.” and number 16, “Do your best in class daily. Always observe Honor Code,” remind us of school, classes, and other trivial things.

Page two has to do with “Bench Behavior,” something pertinent in my present position. If you saw the last game you probably noticed how the bench was cheering and even the BRB (back-row-boys) were en-

Wildcats Lose Two Reserves; Snipes And Spann Quit Squad

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

In the 1968-69 Davidson basketball booklet under the caption “Lefty On Snipes” one reads that “Snipes will definitely play a lot of basketball this year and could push for a starting job.” Under “Lefty On Spann” it says that “Spann could be a strong bench man this year.” Ricky Snipes and Mike Spann, however, will not be tendering their talents in service of the basketball team this year. They have dropped off the squad.

SPANN
“There's really not that much to this thing,” Spann explained. “Coach Driesell and I reached a mutual agreement. I didn’t play much last year and he said that with the team we had this year I wouldn't be playing much this season. So, being a senior, I decided not to stay out.” According to Spann, he gets to keep his basketball scholarship. “It is my understanding that all I had to do to earn it this year was to go out for the team. I did, so I presume that I still have it,” he said. Originally, it had been announced that Spann was planning to quit so that he could concentrate on his golfing game. “Of course I'll be able to play more now, but that really wasn't the reason I quit.” Spann was an All-American in golf last year. Although each said that certain “personal reasons” had encouraged his decision, both agreed that there “are no hard feelings at all.”

“I'm sorry that Snipes and Spann won't be with us this season,” coach Lefty Driesell said, “but they have made their decisions. We could have used them.”

“We quit for completely different reasons,” Snipes explained. “I've decided to play collegiate football instead of basketball.” Snipes, an All-State and Shrine Bowl selection from South Carolina while in high school, is “thinking about playing football at another school and transferring from Davidson after the first term. Football is my best sport, anyway.” And it shouldn't be too hard for the 6-7, 215-pound sophomore to obtain a football scholarship, after receiving around 140 offers just two years ago. For the freshmen squad last year Snipes averaged 18.4 points a game while finishing second on the team in rebounds and scoring. Whereas Snipes will probably lose his basketball scholarship for quitting, Spann, a senior, apparently will be allowed to keep his. “I quit mainly because I wouldn't have gotten to play much this year,” Spann explained.

'Cats Prep For Tough Vanderbilt

Last year’s schedule is a thing of the past, but Coach Lefty Driesell and the Wildcats are not forgetting one game. Last year in Nashville the Vanderbilt Commodores rode the sharpshooting of Tom Hagan and a couple of controversial referees’ decisions to an overtime victory over the team. Tomorrow night, Coach Roy Skinner brings Hagan and the rest of the Vandy team to Charlotte for a long-awaited rematch. After two wins, Davidson is ready. All-American candidate Hagan is joined by juniors Bob Bundy and Perry Wallace and sophomores Thorpe Weber andRudy Thacker. The team makes its second appearance of the season tomorrow, having inched by SMU in its opener earlier in the week. The Wildcats, paced by the scoring of Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Jerry Kroll, have rolled to victories over VMI, 92-72, and Furman, 105-70. Playmaker captain Dave Moser will join them, and either Wayne Huckel or Mike O'Neill will fill the fifth spot. If Huckel gets the call, the starting five will be the team which has never lost as a starting team.

BEST ITALIAN DISHES WEST OF ITALY!
Your Dining Will Be An Experience To Remember!
Rendezvous in Charlotte At LaTORINO RESTAURANT & TAPROOM
Best Pizza In Town
Choice Charcoal Steaks — Imported & Domestic Wines
Brown Bagging — Tap Room
6 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Sunday 4 p.m. to 12 p.m.
One Block East of Indiana Blvd.
1427 E. Fourth Phone 332-6352

We invite you to take a closer look at C&S. It's the shape of things to come. Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, we're the largest banking system in the Southeast, and the 44th largest bank in the United States. The C&S Management Development Program provides accelerated preparation for management and staff responsibilities. C&S tailors its program to fit the individual's career objectives and educational background. We'll be on campus very soon. The Placement Office can arrange an interview, or you may contact Charles R. Hoskins, Personnel Officer, C&S Bank, Atlanta, Ga.
THE CITIZENS & SOUTHERN BANKS IN GEORGIA
An Equal Opportunity Employer

This is because of items number one and nine which state, “At time outs, entire squad listen, five men in game sit on bench, others gather around.” and “The bench should be our most avid cheerleaders.” The bench is also more important this year due to item three which states, “When seven seconds left in close game or half, entire bench will stand up and count down.” At least the subs will learn to count backwards before the year’s out. Item four states that all subs are to run on court and hand the player whom he is replacing his warmup jacket, and that man is to run off the court. “Run” is underlined and if with all the running, a player gets tired, he reverts to item five which says he is to tell Lefty by pointing to himself which results in his being taken out of the game. Item seven is the consequence of item five in that it states, “Man coming out of game sits next to Coach Driesell.” There seems to be no rule for the procedure to get into the game but I’m working on it. The last page has to do with training rules. Besides the evident rules of no drinking or smoking, another rule is that there is to be no dating the night before a game. I believe Lefty sees women as evil in regard to his players and at times I tend to agree with him. In any case, he certainly doesn’t want any of his players tired or worn out before the game and I don’t blame him. “If we pay this price,” then we are told we have a better chance at the National Championship. I hope so, but I’m still waiting for a George Orwell “telescreen” to be installed in my room.

Seniors and Graduate Students:
Career hunt with 90 of the finest companies having operations located in the New Jersey/New York metropolitan area. On December 26-27 at the Marriott Motor Hotel, intersection of Garden State Parkway and Route 80, Saddle Brook, New Jersey. For more details, including a listing of sponsoring companies, see your college placement director or write to the non-profit sponsor of the second annual “Career-In”: Industrial Relations Association of Bergen County, P. O. Box 533, Saddle Brook, New Jersey 07662.

Do your Christmas shopping early. We now have a fine selection of suits, slacks, sportcoats, sweaters, and wool shirts. We also have a selection of ladies skirts, sweaters, blouses, and slacks for Mom, Sis, or your favorite girl.
— FREE GIFT WRAPPING —
HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N.C. Greenville, S.C.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub

Parks Rexall Drugs
Our Christmas Shipment of Russell Stover Candy Now In
Davidson, N.C.

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated
300 E. Morehead Behind Contes
Charlotte

Seda Shop
BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request
MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N.C.
Closed All Day Wednesday

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI