Fogleman’s Soccer Hopes High In Spite Of Early Setbacks

In spite of two early season losses, soccer coach Harry Fogleman has high hopes for a conference title. Fogleman said
this week, “We definitely think we can win the conference championship, and the emphasis is on the ‘we.’” Unlike the
years past, Davidson has no real “superstar,” so the team is working more on team control and working together. In
spite of a 1-2-1 record after four games, the team seems to be nearing that goal. The test for conference
strength will be tomorrow's game against East Carolina. The game, scheduled for 2 p.m. at the soccer field, will be
the first conference encounter for the Wildcats.

ROCKY CROSSWHITE

A SOBERING EXPERIENCE

While waiting for homecoming weekend to get started last Friday afternoon, I wandered over to the soccer field which is
beyond the gym. There I found a sizable crowd watching or doing various other things while the Wildcat soccer team
(we do have one) trampled that perennial kick-team powerhouse, North Carolina Wesleyan, 6-1. No one seemed to know where Wesleyan
was located but they assured me it was somewhere in the state. Friday the crowd was unusually large. There were
probably 100 people sitting on the grassy bank overlooking the field. Most of the spectators had their homecoming dates sitting
on blankets next to them, probably trying to get them warmed up for that night. Still, there was a sizable
group of onlookers who seemed to know what was going on. In previous games with Methodist and Pembroke College, our
team tied 0-0 and lost 5-3, both real thrillers. So, Friday the fans were going wild while our “scoreless wonders”
unleashed their feet and kicked six shots into the netting.

For a person who knows little or nothing about the sport, it can be very confusing. I heard one girl
ask her date why the fullback kicked the ball out-of-bounds and over the bank every time Wesleyan came down on
the offensive. It was a good question because it seemed that when the ball came anywhere near either of the
two Davidson fullbacks, Rich Cowart and Joe Norton, they proceeded to boot the ball out of reach of everyone including
the ball boy. I don’t know but it may be one of the secret Davidson soccer tactics. Seriously, the Wildcats
have three fine halfbacks in Bayard Miller, Jim Marrow, and Cliff Patterson. Patterson kicks the ball hard and with such
accuracy that he could help Homer Smith’s team if Ed Terry gets hurt. Marrow has some of the fanciest footwork
in the business and should be a knockout on the dance floor. Miller plays a steady right side with his
accurate passes.

At half time we were treated to an amazing kicking show by the starting goalie, Steve Culbertson. With his beard
or moustache or whatever that is growing out of his face, and his putrid maroon-colored racing hat, he cut quite
a figure. Too bad you can’t say the same about his style of play.

It was unusual this year to not see any foreign students playing in the game. There have been several years
in the past when the best players on the team were Richardson Scholars. This year it seems that two foreigners
came out for the sport but didn’t like practice with all the wind sprints and conditioning exercises. When they showed
up for the game without going to practice, they didn’t get to play and consequently they quit. It seems that
the practices back home consisted of playing games with their feet.

I could tell that a certain segment of the spectators knew something about the sport they were watching because every
time the official would call some type of foul they would applaud or boo while all the rest of us
tried to figure out what was happening. It appears that tripping, blocking, charging, roughing the goalie, and using the hands
are illegal. One of the Wesleyan players, a center forward I think, (at least that’s what someone told me he
was) had a fine move where he would jump high to hit the ball with his head while at the
same time kicking one of our players in the chest. Needless to say, his move was not appreciated by the
referees.

With West Virginia out of the conference, Davidson has a good chance to win the Southern Conference tournament this year.
The Davidson games are really fairly exciting because most of the players are doing something even if they do it
wrong. Bring a date and come out and watch some soccer. If the game seems boring, try your date.

Fogleman says the record thus far is actually “deceiving.” Tuesday's match with St. Andrew's was played in the rain, with
Davidson losing 3-1, and the game with Pembroke was played on a cinder-and-sand field. Fogleman said the adverse playing conditions
hampered the team's attack. Fogleman blamed the scoreless tie with Methodist College on lack of conditioning time: “We just ran
out of gas,” he said. “We only had eight days to get in shape before the game.”

The greatest strength of the Wildcat team is depth. The team in past years has usually numbered about 18, but
this year Fogleman has 28 on his roster. “We have two units,” Fogleman explained, “and I can start either one.
They are all excellent soccer players.” Although Fogleman is looking forward to the conference matches, he is concerned about some
of the smaller schools the team faces. “A lot of these schools don't have football teams, so soccer is their
major sport,” he said. “We will play in several homecoming matches this year.” The ‘Cats will look for a repeat
of last Friday's 6-1 win over Wesleyan in tomorrow's game, and will rely on leading scorer Bill Horton and an
improving offense to topple the Pirates.

Phi Delts Dominate IMAC

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

Freshman intramural flickerball began this week as the Phi Delts continue to roll in the fraternity competition. The Delts have
compiled a perfect 7-0 record and seem to be a sure bet to capture the flickerball trophy, one of the
few IMAC championships that has eluded them in recent years. According to Delt coach Dave Fernbach, the defensive unit has
been the major reason for the undefeated record. “The defensive unit won the close games, the ones with the Sigma
Nus, Kappa Sigs, and Sigma Chis,” Fernbach said. The defense seems to be growing even stronger, as the victories over
the last two opponents, the KA’s and SAE’s, were shutouts.

SC Sportswriters Pick Slade Again

The Southern Conference press corps once again signaled out Wildcat quarterback Gordon Slade this week, picking him as the conference’s
offensive player of the week. It was the second straight week Slade has been honored by the award. The 6-1,
190-pound junior completed a record-tying 30 of 37 passes in the ‘Cats 30-18 homecoming win over Connecticut. The completions moved
Slade to second in the nation in passing, and ninth in total offense. Slade threw to Mike Kelly for seven
completions in the game, moving Kelly to fifth in the nation in pass receiving, with 28 receptions. Slade has 82
completions in 138 tosses, for 912 yards via the airways. He has 867 yards total offense.

The key to the defensive unit has been the line, led by rusher Bill Traxler and sophomore ends Harlan Day
and John McCammon. They have done a fine job of containment. Others performing well on defense have been Frank Murphy
and Carl Salter at defensive halfback. The offensive unit of the Delts has not been impotent, however. The offense has
been responsible for the major portion of the 23 points per game scoring average. Sophomore tailback Jack Caldwell is the
main offensive threat. “We seem to move when he’s in there,” says Fernbach of Caldwell. George House is Caldwell's main
receiver and leads the team in touchdowns.

Freshman competition began this week with four games on Tuesday. Team 1 (East 1), defeated Team 5 (Cannon 2 and
4) 6-0 on the 55-yard return of an interception by Trip Adams. Team 1 selected Adams as its offensive player
of the week for his performance. Their defensive player of the week is Sam Robinson, who intercepted three passes and
blocked three more in the shutout victory. Tommy Ross led Team 2 (East 2 and 4) to a 39-6 romp
over Team 6 (Cannon 3), as he scored two touchdowns. Other outstanding players for Team 2 were Will Ryan and
Bob Wallace.

After three disappointing losses, the Davidson Wildcat gridders came up with the big one, as three of the Wildcat crew
put forth a...

Davidson And The SC

During the past few years Davidson has controlled basketball, tennis, and golf in the Southern Conference. It is also recognized
that the Wildcats have been constant losers in baseball, football, swimming, and track in Southern competition. But there has been
talk, in more than whispers, about the possibility of Davidson’s withdrawing from the conference. It is serious talk, and it
is spreading rapidly. What does the Southern Conference mean to athletics at Davidson? And what does Davidson contribute in return?
What about the effect of a Wildcat withdrawal? Sports writer Russ Merritt answers these questions as he examines the Davidson
role in the...Southern—past, present and future—in a three-part series, beginning next week in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Improving Wildkittens Meet Baby Spiders Here Today

The improving Wildcat freshmen gridders, fresh from a victory over Carolina Military last week, meet the Baby Spiders from the
University of Richmond this afternoon at 2 p.m. on Richardson Field. The game is expected to reveal the improved passing
attack of Ricky Kimmerlin, who hit 11 of 18 passes against the Cadets last weekend.

Weakened Whittlemen Face Rough Schedule

By STEVE WILLIAMS
Sports Writer

With the improving strength of other colleges and the loss of Davidson's two top cross-country runners, it looks like Coach
Heath Whittle’s 1968 harriers are in for a rough time. The team has not seen victory in three outings this
season. The team’s top two runners from last year, Jim McLaughlin and John Puckett, have left a serious gap to
be filled this fall. McLaughlin has departed via graduation, and Puckett is spending his junior year abroad. Whittle added that
this season "will be rougher than ever." This is particularly true because many Wildcat opponents are receiving subsidization in this
department. Davidson doesn't.

The team's main hopes center around their captain, Randy Phillips, one of the only two seniors on the squad. Phillips
is listed as one of the top six runners and it is up to him, Whittle said, to unify the
team and give it the needed leadership. James Puckett, a junior with two years of experience, is probably the man
with the greatest potential of being Davidson's top runner. Whittle is also depending on Stagg Newman, another junior and a
letterman, who is considered by assistant coach Sterling Martin to be the team’s hardest worker. Roger Clark, a sophomore letterman
who missed part of last season due to injury, and Reaves Louthan are listed as having good chances of becoming
a top runner. As the list grows, the squad appears younger and younger, and Coach Whittle points out that there
are many promising freshmen participating this year. Even with the tough schedule ahead, Whittle and Martin expect a much better
season this year, simply because of the team's better balance and desire to win.

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiane — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Freshman coach Gene McEver said this week that Kimmerlin's passing and the receiving of Jim Ellison were the key factors
in last week's win. Also singled out was Harold Wilkerson, linebacker and place kicker, who booted two extra points and
his second field goal of the season in the game. The only lapse led to the Cadet score. A linebacker
leading a blitz intercepted a pitch-out and scampered in for the score. Noting the improved play of the Wildkittens, McEver
said that the team should be in good shape for today's game. The Richmond freshmen bring a 1-0-1 record into
the game, after solidly trouncing William and Mary, 27-0, and tying VMI, 3-3. The Spiders boast a strong running attack,
led by John Woodle and Charley Peres.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Davidson, N. C.
Hours: 9 a.m. - 8 p.m.
Sunday 10 - 11 a.m.
Behind Contes Soda Shop

Dial 399-5411 For Reservations
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Paul Nelson on offense and Jim Montgomery on defense. David Russell, Toby Dawson, and David Faison scored a touchdown each
in a 21-13 win by Team 4 (Cannon 1 and basement) over Team 8 (Watts 3). Rick Van De Water
and Charlie Summers also played well on offense for the victors. In other non-action, Team 3 (East 3 and basement)
won by forfeit over Team 4 (Watts 2 and 4).

Strong effort in the 30-18 defeat of the visiting UConn Huskies last Saturday. Quarterback Gordon Slade, defensive safety Whit Morrow,
and place-kicking specialist Ed Terry displayed outstanding personal efforts in the homecoming triumph, yet each was quick to play down
his own performance and place laurels on fellow teammates. Completing 30 of 37 attempted passes with only one interception, Slade
helped rewrite the Davidson book of standards, gaining a total of 361 yards through the airways. This breaks the old
record of 291 yards, set in 1966 by Jimmy Poole. At one time, Slade's rifle accuracy pinpointed receivers for fifteen
consecutive completions in the second half. His 30 completions tie another school record. As honor for his football antics, the
Southern Conference Sportswriters bestowed Slade with recognition as the conference's offensive player of the week for the second straight week.
One of Slade’s connections was certainly unprecedented in the annals of Wildcat football, a left-handed push shot by a right-handed
quarterback. The play resembled a flickerball option. "My receivers were covered and those white jerseys were closing in," Slade said.
"I called a ‘distress signal’ and as I was trying to evade tacklers, I saw Mike Kelly. It was the
only way I could get the ball to him.” But Slade also lauded the defensive unit and Whit Morrow, “who
gave us good field position.” Playing his first game at defensive safety, Whit made his first interceptions of the season,
three of them, blocked a field goal, and recovered a fumbled kickoff. “Coach (Coach Homer Smith) saw the opening in
Connecticut’s place-kicking lineup in game films, and we worked on it all week,” Morrow said. As for his three interceptions
in the second half, Whit said, “I just was in the right place at the right time. We were told
what to look for in Connecticut's passing attack and that helped.”

Both Slade and Morrow heaped praise on fellow Wildcat Ed Terry. Terry eclipsed another school mark by finding the range
on field goals from 35, 24, and 31 yards out. With the oncoming of this new offensive threat, Terry himself
has set a goal of hitting at least 80% on all field goal attempts from the 30-yard line and in,
and converting all extra points. Presently, Terry has a string of 10 consecutive PAT conversions in varsity play. With another
field goal, he'll tie his brother’s record for total field goals in a single season. For the first time this
season, the Wildcats were able to put together an attack on all fronts. New receivers emerged. George Hannen, Poole's favorite
receiver last year, Kerry Keith, and Rusty Lawrence pulled in a number of Slade passes. Idle this weekend, the Davidson
crew will host Southern Conference foe Furman next Saturday at Richardson Field. With hopes of victories in the next four
encounters, the Paladin clash should provide an indicator of Davidson's conference finishing position.

SUITS AT MILTON'S
It takes more than a Shetland fabric to make a Milton country suit. It takes all the power detailing, the
right fabric, the right tailoring, and the right fit. Milton’s large country selections pass all these rigid tests to bring
you the smartest exclusive look. Classic bankers gray herringbone, India whipcord in golden tan or blue olive....from $95.00. Freeberg’s worsted
Shetland olive-heathered windowpane...$125.00. Our own English worsted Shetland herringbone with windowpane in Cambridge gray or golden tan...vested...$135.00. Worsted glen check
in green/tan vested...$110.00. The smartest fall collection in our 20 years is awaiting you at the Cupboard.

CLOTHING CUPBOARD
Charlottetown Mall
Union—BankAmericard and American Express Charge invited
