YES, THERE REALLY IS A SOCCER TEAM (See Page Three)

The AauiMsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1968

THE OTHER DAVIDSON -- 3

‘To Weld A Unified Community Feeling’

HIGH ROAD OR LOW, LITTLE DIFFERENCE

It matters little which road you take—the high one by Dormitory Row or the low one through Fraternity Valley, for the parking places are rare when the need is high. Only in the parking lots below the gymnasium can you be guaranteed a parking place, but when the rain sets in, the walk to Little, Watts or Richardson stretches out to a damp half-mile. (Staff Photo by Lyle.)

Canvass To Start Tuesday For YMCA’s Fund Drive

By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

Tuesday has been declared “Great Guy Day” at Davidson—the beginning of the YMCA Fund Drive for 1968-69. The goal will be $5000 for the funds, which are the only backing for the Y’s programs, including Stimulus, STEP, freshman hall discussions and the Great Issues Program.

The Great Issues Symposium will bring renowned experts to Davidson for a two-day roundtable exploration of the American governmental system. Since it invites men of national reputation to come to Davidson, the Symposium alone will require $2000, said Emerson Bell, YMCA vice-president.

YMCA leaders hope to expand the projects if enough funds are raised. But as costs have increased, contributions to the Y have fallen off in recent years. Ten years ago, students gave $30 each per year to the Y and $10 to the social committee. Now they give $40 in social fees and are asked for $5 for the Y. YMCA officers expressed fear that these statistics might falsify Davidson's claim to being a “concerned” student body.

The YMCA will canvass students in their dorms Tuesday night. Every donor is to receive a membership card and a “Great Guy” button. Donations will also be accepted by hall counselors and at the Y office in the Union.

Ralph Ellison To Speak

Ralph Ellison, author of “Invisible Man,” will discuss the American's understanding of himself in assembly Thursday. The talk, “The Meaning of American Diversity,” will be in Love Auditorium. Also scheduled for Ellison's Reynolds Lectures series will be a reading from his latest works at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Morrison Room.

“Invisible Man” won him the National Book Award in 1953, the Russwurm Award (1953), the National Newspaper Publishers Award (1954), and others. He has received honorary degrees from four American colleges and universities.

ACTION, PLEASE

Short Sheeting Bed?

Why aren’t the sheets the laundry gives long enough for the new beds in Watts? —Sam Hay

When the college bought new beds for Watts this year, it was decided to replace the six-one-half-foot beds with seven-foot ones. C. W. Stacks, laundry manager, was informed of this when the beds were ordered, and he assured everyone concerned that the regular 108-inch sheets would be long enough for use on the new seven-foot beds. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of student housing, said that she had advised Stacks of the bed size. Stacks said that the college at present has no plans to purchase extra sheets for the beds.

Why were so many of the best down-front seats in the Paul Winter concert reserved for the public? The artist series is paid for by students, and they should get the best seats. —Tom Wheatley

The ticket office for the artist series said they didn't know this situation existed. They stated that public sales of artist series tickets were miserable this year—one season's ticket was sold. A spokesman at the ticket office said that over 90 percent of the audience was made up of students and their dates.

Why does the laundry close the sheet department at 4 p.m. instead of letting it close at 4:30 p.m. with the rest of the laundry? —Bill Gregory

The linen room will now be open from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Mondays and Wednesdays. Stacks said that the move would involve paying overtime because the regular hours of laundry employees are 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Mr. Robert J. Stephenson, assistant business manager, said that the policy was motivated more by convenience than monetary considerations.

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

College students form the best market for short films today, New Cinema compiler Neil Evans told his audience at the Open End Tuesday night. Evans, who works for Janus Films, Inc., appeared with Bob Schroeder of the Visulite Theater in Charlotte. Janus Films distributes “shorts” all over the country, and produced the “New Cinema” production now showing here.

“We felt the short film was not getting proper play,” Evans said.

Third Of A Series

By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

The 15 members of the Mayor's Community Relations Committee meet once a month to discuss problems ranging from a single street sign to 30-unit housing projects. The Community Relations Committee attempts to improve specific segments of the community and work for the good of the community as a whole, according to Dr. D. D. Rhodes, its chairman. Its members, he says, are people who are both representatives of the town's various segments and also representative of the town as a whole.

The committee currently includes three people associated with the college, two students, five Negroes, one member of the Town Council and three other townspeople. The committee began as a college organization established to deal with the problems of integrating the college. In 1963 it came under the aegis of the town government with members appointed by the mayor.

Rhodes feels that the most vital function of the Community Relations Committee is to serve as “a sounding board, keeping the lines of communication open” among various segments of the community.

The committee was first interested in housing and employment in Davidson. Through the work of the committee Davidson Development, Inc. was formed and has thus far provided low-interest loans for low-income families to construct their own homes. Twenty houses have been completed under the project so far. Another three are under construction, and plans are being made to open up another area for development that will provide 28 more building lots.

The Community Relations Committee is indicative of a kind of community consciousness that is growing in Davidson. Another sign of this is the Piedmont Area Development Association (PADA).

PADA is an organization of the Negro community. It was formed in November, 1966, by members of the Negro community without outside organization or direction and currently has 16 members. PADA has undertaken a beautification program, a voter registration drive and is trying to establish a youth center in the community.

Both groups primarily indicate recognition of problems that have existed for a long time. The Other Davidson can no longer be assumed to be a placid low-income residential area.

Advisory To Be Appointed

Free U. Classes: Small And Coed

By CECIL BURNEY
StaffWriter

The Free University, a co-educational, student-organized attempt to provide learning not otherwise available at Davidson, began its first classes with 235 persons attending the 14 courses offered this term. Students from Queens College and Davidson, professors’ wives, professors, and local citizens are among those enrolled for this first term of the university's operation. Rich Cowart, Free University president, said that the project is a complete success. More than 400 persons had registered, both at Davidson and Queens, Cowart said, but enrollment was limited to keep classes small. All courses in the Free University curriculum are non-credit and non-graded. Both students and professors teach courses, and there are no restrictions on what can be taught, Cowart said. He stressed that the Free University Committee has tried to leave the structure of the courses entirely up to the teachers and the class members themselves. Tom Covington, Gene Early, Ashton Trice, Fletcher Hartsell, Mike Norris, and Robert Folger are members of the committee along with Cowart, and Peggy Thomas and Betsy Braezeal are the student organizers at Queens. Dr. T. A. Williams and Dr. Ernest F. Patterson are the faculty advisers.

One of the most interesting and daring courses offered this term is entitled “Beyond Conception, or How To Have Your Cake and Eat It, Too.” Taught by sophomore Jimmy Trussell of Davidson, the course includes comprehensive discussions of a number of methods of contraception and birth control. Trussell worked last summer in a birth control clinic. The course is co-ed. Other courses offered this fall deal with American foreign policy, parapsychology, typing, aviation, photography, auto mechanics, art of the Sixties, the nature of revolutions, chess, interpersonal relations, civil liberties, the current presidential campaign, and poverty. One of the courses planned for the near future will deal with business ethics and is to be taught by several businessmen from Charlotte. Courses will vary during each of the three terms of the college year, and the next registration period will be in January, said Cowart.

New Cinema producer notes need for short films. Evans: Campus Market Best For Short Films around the country,” said Evans, “so we took the concept of putting the best shorts we could find into one package.” This package, composed of four two-hour segments, was shown in New York and was sold out every night. The package was then cut to two two-hour segments and distributed on campuses. “Our biggest problem was getting colleges to pay $1,000 for this after they had been paying about $200 for Doris Day and Rock Hudson,” Evans said. Evans showed three shorts from “New Cinema I,” which played here earlier this month. The three varied widely. One was a quick series of pop-art cartoons coordinated with Maurice Evans’ reading of the soliloquy from “Hamlet.” Another, by a Pole named Walerian Borowczyk, showed a room reassembling itself after an explosion. The third was a psychedelic pattern of swirling, flashing, and darting lights. “We call it ‘New Cinema’ because it has started new trends in filmmaking,” Evans explained.

THE DEAN SERVES STUDENTS (See Page Two)

NUMBER FOUR

Straw Vote Set For President

Names of the three major candidates for President of the United States will be on the student Senate ballot October 30 as a straw poll sponsored by THE DAVIDSONIAN. In addition, students voting will have the option of writing in a fourth choice and noting their party preference. Ballots for faculty members will be placed in their mailboxes in the Alumni Office. When students voted in 1964, Barry Goldwater edged Lyndon Johnson as the student choice, but the faculty voted heavily for Johnson. The Choice '68 poll last spring showed Minnesota Senator Eugene McCarthy the favorite, with Republican nominee Richard Nixon second and Senator Robert Kennedy third. Polls will be open Wednesday in the lobby of Chambers from 7:50 a.m. to 2:40 p.m.

PRESIDENT SPENCER joint commissions

Ryder To Appear In Concert

By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

Mitch Ryder and his 10-piece band will present “what could be the best concert of the year” Saturday, Nov. 9, in Love Auditorium, according to Union Social Chairman Dave Troxler. “Ryder, who ranks alongside the Rascals as a leading white rhythm and blues singer, has an exciting and original hard rock type approach to soul music. He is a young and exciting dancer-showman with a very soulful, gritty voice,” Troxler said. Ryder's hits include “Jenny Take a Ride,” “Devil With a Blue Dress On,” and “Sock It To Me—Baby.” On Friday night of the concert weekend, the Showmen will be featured in a combination concert-and-dance in the Chambers dining hall. Jerry Butler will perform for the next concert weekend, Jan. 25.

By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

Members of the five advisory commissions proposed by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. in his inaugural address will be appointed within two weeks. The commissions on Co-education, Social Patterns, Church Relationship, Extra-Campus Responsibilities, and Intercollegiate Athletics will each consist of three trustee members, three students, three faculty members, and a staff member. Student members of the commissions are to be chosen by the student Senate. Students wishing to run may file at the office of the SGA president in the Union. Filing deadline is midnight Thursday. The trustee members will be appointed by trustee President Walter L. Lingle Jr. next week, according to Spencer. In order to provide adequate communication with the trustees, the chairmen of the standing trustee committees which correspond to a study commission will automatically be members of the equivalent study commissions. These trustees include Dr. Warner Hall, chairman of the Education Committee; Harllee Branch Jr., chairman of the Committee on Campus and Social Life; the Rev. Albert McClure, chairman of the Committee on Religious Life and Community Church Relations; and John Belk, chairman of the Committee on Student Health, Physical Education, and Athletics. There is no standing trustee committee corresponding to the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities. Ten of the faculty members for the study commissions are to be chosen by election from 15 nominated by the Faculty Professional Affairs Committee. The other five will be appointed by Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston.

Radio Finds New Studio, Applies For FCC Permit

A campus radio station moved closer to reality this week as the former PRAM office in the Union was appropriated as a broadcasting studio and application went in to the Federal Communications Commission for a construction permit. However, the station is plagued by financial problems. Station manager Ed Dobbs pleaded with the student Senate for funding Tuesday night, but succeeded only in getting the SGA budget delayed a week. Dobbs said that the earliest any foundation will make a decision on aiding the station is Dec. 3, but an option to buy equipment for the station expires Dec. 1. Dobbs did not know whether the FCC will grant the construction permit, but by law, the federal board must decide within 60 days. Questionnaires on programming are scheduled to be submitted to students next week. The questions, drawn up by freshmen Terry Hirst and Phil Leonard, will attempt to determine what kind of music and program offerings the students would like.