Delaware Barrage Buries Wildcat Nine

Troubles accumulated rapidly for the Davidson baseball team this week as they were defeated substantially by a hard-hitting Delaware squad
and then were struck by the loss of two players in spring football practice. In a game which team captain
Jack Sitt hailed as the worst he had seen Davidson play, the University of Delaware all but drove the Wildcats
off the playing field in winning 17-6. Errors were the story of the day as the “Cats committed an unbelievable
14 errors in the field. Davidson hurler Clark Nickerson was relieved in the sixth inning with the score 7-3, even
though he had only given up one earned run.

Soon after the game, sophomore catcher Mike Kelly and junior infielder Sandy Brenneman announced their plans to suspend their baseball
play in order to participate in spring football drills. According to Brenneman, the only reason for the two's decision to
quit was the football practice which begins Monday.

*Cat-Contests
Saturday, April 6
11 a.m. Sailing Lake Campus Davidson Invitational Regatta
2 p.m. Baseball Baseball Field Davidson vs. Indiana (Pa.)
2 p.m. Tennis Tennis Courts Davidson vs. E. Tenn. State

Monday, April 8
4 p.m. Baseball Baseball Field Davidson vs. Indiana State

Tuesday, April 9
2 p.m. Golf
2 p.m. Baseball Davidson vs. Wake Forest Winston Salem
Belmont Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey
4 p.m. Track Richardson Field Davidson vs. East Carolina

Wednesday, April 10
2 p.m. Tennis Meisenheimer Davidson vs. Pfeiffer
3 p.m. Baseball Baseball Field Davidson vs. The Citadel

Friday, April 12
2 p.m. Tennis Tennis Courts Davidson vs. Hope College
2 p.m. Baseball Baseball Field Davidson vs. Marshall
3 p.m. Golf Charlotte CC Davidson vs. Duke

Kelly had been batting high in the lineup and had been the starting catcher for the ‘Cats while Brenneman had
seen limited action as an infielder thus far in the season. The Delaware game was the first game the Wildcats
had played after their Florida spring tour, from which they emerged with only one victory. The lone win came against
Armstrong State College of Savannah, Ga. Against Armstrong, Davidson was able to put together a string of hits to support
Nickerson's shutout pitching, and emerged from the game with a 6-0 win. Davidson dominated the entire game, both defensively and
offensively, with Gordon Slade leading the way in the hitting.

Georgia Southern swept a doubleheader from the ‘Cats as they bombarded Davidson pitchers for 15 runs. Unable to put together
any hitting attack against the rugged Southern defense, the squad fell 7-2 and 8-1. Jacksonville University also took two from
the Wildcats, by scores of 4-3 and 9-2. Throughout the tour, Davidson had trouble hitting the opposing pitchers, with Slade
being the only consistent hitter. With a 1-9 record, the ‘Cats now face the rougher half of their schedule against
teams such as Clemson, South Carolina, and Furman, all of which have players aiming toward professional baseball. Coach Tom Stevens
plans to put more emphasis on defense in practice, in hopes of decreasing costly errors.

STOWE SMILES THROUGH DAMPENED DEDICATION

Benefactor Robert L. Stowe Jr., (L.) a Belmont banker, greeted visitors during an open house in the new tennis clubhouse
dedicated in his name Wednesday afternoon. The new clubhouse was constructed with funds provided by Stowe in a gift to
the school last fall. Construction was completed last month. The tennis house is Stowe's second gift to the school; it
was preceded by his gift of the Stowe Art Galleries in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center in 1962. The dedication
was...

Netters Topple Harvard; Fogleman Halts Citadel

By DAVID BRANCH
Sports Writer

Calling on their depth and conditioning, the Davidson tennis team fought off a determined Harvard squad yesterday afternoon to post
a 5-3 victory. It was the second game of the week for the fuzzballers, as they returned home from a
successful Florida tour to meet two tough opponents. George Berner lost his first...

US Olympic Tryouts Unfair To Cage Players - Driesell

By ROCKY CROSSWHITE
Assistant Sports Editor

In a criticism of the Olympic selection committee, and moreover, in a defense of the college basketball player, Davidson basketball
coach Lefty Driesell recently complained that college players are not being given a fair chance to try out for the
Olympic team. Driesell’s remarks were sparked by the decision of numerous players around the country not to try out for
the team. The selection committee, he said, is putting the blame on the players for various reasons, including the race
issue, which has arisen during plans for a Negro boycott of the Olympic games this summer.

MIKE MALOY

The real blame, according to Driesell, lies within the scheduling of the Olympic trials. During the past few weeks, these
trials have been held throughout the country by means of exhibition games. Many of the players who have declined the
invitations to try out for the team, including Davidson's Mike Maloy, said that they based their decisions on the amount
of time it would take up. It was their inability to miss classes, rather than the race issue which has
forced the decisions. Driesell said that the selection committee is taking advantage of the seasonal popularity of basketball to make
money for the team through these exhibitions. “We pay enough taxes for the government to support the Olympic team like
they...

Three Prep Grid Standouts Sign Wildcat Grants-In-Aid

Davidson added three more high school grid standouts to its growing collection this week with the signing of two running
backs and a defensive end to grants-in-aid. Greg Sikes, a defensive star from Statesboro, Ga., and two halfbacks, Jimmy Ribet,
of Durham, and Randy Parker of Williamsburg, Va., ran the total of signees to seven.

Sikes’ defensive play enabled his high school to win five games by shutouts and result in the Georgia state championship.
He was named honorable mention all-state for his play and was captain of his team. An all-around athlete, Sikes also
played basketball and baseball. He captained and led his basketball team, which also won the state title, with a 22
points and 13 rebounds average per game. Last spring he was voted most valuable player of his school’s baseball team,
on which he pitches and plays shortstop.

Ribet, a 6-1, 185-pound halfback, was a standout last fall for Northern Durham High School in spite of an early
season injury which caused him to miss the first few games. During his junior and senior years, he amassed 2426
yards in rushing for a 6.4 yard per carry average. Head Football Coach Homer Smith noted Ribet's outstanding performance in
state playoff competition, saying that he has “the size and speed to be a fine running back in the Southern
Conference.”

Another three-sport standout, Parker averaged 4.5 yards per carry and caught 14 passes for 400 yards. He scored 11 touchdowns
to rank high in scoring in Virginia, and received honorable mention all-state honors in his junior year. Parker was president
of the student body at Blair High School, and will graduate with honors. “Davidson College is pleased to have Randy
as a student-athlete,” Smith said. “His outstanding record in the classroom, student government and on the athletic field speaks for
itself. He should contribute to all areas of student life here at Davidson.”

CAMP DEERHORN

One of America’s outstanding private boys camps, located in northern Wisconsin, announces a limited number of openings on the staff
for the 1968 season. Dates are June 25 -...Au- gua? td, Compensation includes salary, round trip transportation, living quarters, board,
and laundry. This is an unusually attractive summer job and only men of the highest character and integrity will be
considered. For complete information, write B.O. Broadbridge, 2463 Shannon Court, Northbrook, Ill, 2862, do in most countries” big ad. He
mentioned to give: that trials should be held at the beginning of June when school is out of the way.
“A committee should choose quality players on the basis of their past performances. This shouldn't be too much trouble." Driesell
pointed out some of the best basketball players in the country as examples of those who were forced to decline
the invitation to try out for the team. Lew Alcindor and Mike Warren of NCAA champion UCLA, Wesley Unseld of
Louisville, Charlie Scott and Larry Miller of UNC and Mike Lewis of Duke all joined Maloy in saying no to
the trials. “Over 100 players are trying out for the team,” Driesell said, “and only twelve are going to make
it. At least the trials should come at a time convenient for the players, so that those who fail to
make the team will not have given up something as important as school to try out.” He concluded, "I don't
feel that any players should be blamed for refusing an invitation during the school year."

The Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Finest Steaks Served Anywhere match of the season against Harvard's number one singles player, John
Levin, with set scores of 6-1, 4-6, 8-10. Sam Hatcher, Dan Hearon, Woody Fatik, and Jim Cantrell posted singles wins
for the Wildcats in play which saw six of eight matches going the full three sets. Berner returned with Hatcher
in number one doubles to knock off the Harvard duo, 6-3, 6-4. In noting that it was the second win
in a row for Davidson in the Harvard matches, Coach Harry Fogleman said that he was “extremely pleased” with the
play. Earlier in the week, the Davidson netters were only able to salvage a tie with Southern Conference opponent, The
Citadel, and the 4-4 match drew considerable comment and criticism at Fogleman's use of the rule book. With the overall
score tied 4-4 and The Citadel holding a 4-3 advantage in what could have been the deciding set, Fogleman called
the match, canceling the unfinished tie-breaking match. Fogleman explained that the move was perfectly legal under Southern Conference rules. “I
told The Citadel coach at six o'clock that I would have to stop the match at six-thirty due to darkness,”
he said, “I informed him at six-thirty that the time limit was up.” “At that point the score was tied
at 3-3 in the final set, but their coach asked me to go ahead and let the players complete the
game which was in progress. They won that game, giving them a 4-3 advantage in the final set. I then
called the match in accordance with Southern Conference rules.” Berner, Jean, and Hatcher played extremely well for the Wildcats. Berner
supported the number one singles and teamed with Hatcher to defeat The Citadel's number one doubles team. Hearon defeated William
Shields, last year's Southern Conference champion in the number three singles position. Fogleman, however, was not satisfied with the Wildcats’
overall showing. “We didn't play as well as we have been playing,” he commented. The Wildcats did make a good
showing on the Florida tour, defeating Furman, Jacksonville University, and Cornell, losing only to a very strong team from Rollins
by a score of 8-1. Berner played what Coach Fogleman considered his best tennis thus far against Rollins. Berner defeated
Rollins’ Ron Van Gelder, who is currently rated as the number four player in Holland. Fogleman commented that the match
with Rollins was closer than the score indicated, with five of the nine matches going the full three sets.

April 6, 1968 Page Five Showers Slow Start Of Softball By BILL BERRY Sports Writer Numerous errors and unearned runs
dominated play this week in the rain-soaked opening of IMAC softball competition. With rain forcing cancellation of Wednesday games, eight
games were played. The Phi Gams put together a ten-run fifth inning to overwhelm Sigma Nu, 14-5. Bruce Weidner led
the hitting for the Nus, over five runs were left unearned. Sigma Phi Epsilon edged by the ATO’s by a
score of 9-7. Steve Howe's long home run into deep left field and base hits by Tommy Bryant led the
SPE's. The Taus picked up only four hits and only one earned run, but put together a four-run seventh inning,
on numerous Sig Ep errors to keep the contest close. Jerry Kroll's three round-trippers led Sigma Chi to an 8-6
decision over the SAEs. In a rather ludicrous contest, Beta Theta Pi played on numerous Independent errors, with strong hitting
to take a four-inning contest, 20-5. Yesterday, the KA’s edged by the SPE's 2-1, the Nus beat the Betas 8-4,
the Phi Delts routed the Pikas, and the Kappa Sigs dealt the Independents their second loss.

Carolina Golfers Dump Davidson Davidson's golf team met tough competition Monday in their match with the University of North Carolina,
and came out on the short end of a 12-3 score. The match was held in overcast weather in the
Charlotte Country Club. George Leigh and Taylor Dalton picked up the only Davidson win of the afternoon, with Leigh's 73
leading all players, second in the round. Mike Spann met stern competition in the number one match and lost 3-0,
in spite of posting a 79 for the 18 holes. Senior John Giles, junior Cary Hite, and Danny White, a
sophomore, each lost their matches. White placed second in Davidson individual scoring with a 77.

THE WILDCAT DEN RESTAURANT PIZZAS & FRIED CHICKEN - Open Till Midnight Monday - Saturday

Come in now and let us help you find a new outfit for the Spring Frolics weekend. We have a
fine selection of suits, sport coats, slacks, and shirts in the new spring colors. Bush Wilson, Ltd. Davidson, N.C. Greenville,
S.C.
