Page Four

Paper Takes Awards

By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN was the only newspaper to capture two first-place awards last Saturday in the 1968 College Press Awards competition sponsored by The Charlotte Observer and The Charlotte News.

The first award to THE DAVIDSONIAN was the first-place for the Best Small College Newspaper in the Carolinas and was presented to editor Sam Boyte by A.M. S. Van Hecke. A small college was defined as one having less than 1500 students. The award was fifty dollars.

The second award won by THE DAVIDSONIAN was an individual award to Bob Reid for the Best Feature Story. This award included all colleges that entered and was for twenty-five dollars. Reid's story was picked by the judges over 130 other such stories.

Representatives from twenty-five college newspaper staffs participated in the competition, with invitations to compete being sent out to all senior college newspapers in North and South Carolina.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, April 6
All Day - Morrison Room
8 pm. - Bogart Films

Monday, April 8
4:15 pm. - Chamber Music Concert
8 pm. - Ted Barmiller

April 5, 1968

The Davidsonian

Campus Comment

Students Endorse LBJ Decision

Responding to the question, “What do you think of President Johnson's announcement that he will not run again?", these students said:

John Barker, Sophomore: “Johnson's announcement was an honorable way to get out of a very delicate situation. I'm personally glad that he did get out, for it was the only way for him to save face in a hopeless situation.”

Ken Wallace, Junior: “Having lost all of his popularity, Johnson was wise to step down. He would be a fool to try to re-enter at a later time. Wisconsin indicated that his decision did not arouse as much sympathy as he had intended.”

Terrell Pulliam, Sophomore: “I'm pleased that he's out running. But he could turn out to be a great individual in history, particularly if the North Vietnamese decide to negotiate. If not, he has made a wise political move by leaving the next president holding the bag.”

De Rogers, Senior: “Johnson did the only politically advisable thing. I believe that he was afraid of doing the same thing Teddy Roosevelt once did, splitting the party and aiding the re-election of Woodrow Wilson. The situation now forces Nixon into a more hawkish stance which may be a disadvantage with today's dovish trends.”

Students Organize To Campaign For Robert Kennedy On Campus

Two sophomores and a senior are organizing a Students for Kennedy group on the Davidson campus, and have already moved toward including the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and Queens.

“What we're mainly working on is trying to get support at the state convention in North Carolina,” explained John Thacker, one of the three Kennedy supporters. Peter Hobbie and senior Stan Link joined Thacker in making a trip to Greensboro Tuesday to talk with Democratic backers of Kennedy. All three had visited Kennedy national headquarters in Washington during spring vacation, where they received the go-ahead for trying whatever they thought would help. “They left us free to act — what they need is ideas," explained Thacker.

The three students have called a general meeting of any students backing Kennedy for 3 p.m. Monday in 14 Chambers. Thacker said that after talking to party members at Greensboro, he felt that the students “can be of great aid to them.” “We really feel we can be a force that can determine things,” Thacker concluded.

Hobbie described the situation in Washington at the headquarters as confusing, since the Kennedy group was just moving in. Both Kennedy and his brother, Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, have moved out of Senate offices into the new office building which will serve as campaign headquarters.

Graduates Help Form Legal Action Program

Several Davidson graduates have joined forces with other law students at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in special programs to provide legal aid to the poor. Most of the programs are in the planning stages, but Frank Goldsmith, '67, a first-year student at UNC-CH, said this week that the group hoped to be more active next year.

The group at Duke, which includes Dave Powell, '66, has been named SLAM — Student Legal Aid Movement. The group at UNC-CH, which is as yet unnamed, includes Mike Abel and Dick Thurston, '67, and Tom Anderson and Tom White, '65. So far the groups have been limited to answering legal requests from prisoners and manning welfare rights information centers around Durham and Chapel Hill, Goldsmith said.

Dr. Brooks To Address Phi Beta Kappa Meeting

Dr. Frederick P. Brooks, professor and chairman of the Department of Information Science at UNC in Chapel Hill, will give the annual Phi Beta Kappa address here on April 10.

Molecule Moves In History, Physicist Gordy Explains

By RICHARD HIMSON
Staff Writer

Dr. Walter Gordy, James B. Duke professor of physics at Duke University, spoke at chapel Tuesday on the topic "The Molecule is the Message." Dr. Gordy, who made several dubious attempts at sophomoric humor, said that he had a great respect for Davidson College and its “clean shaven look.” His several references to Davidson's purity and religion seemed to make him more suitable for the Thursday chapel usually reserved for religious speakers.

Gordy's talk centered on the relationship of man's knowledge of the molecule with his knowledge of the world around him. "Since time began, almost," Dr. Gordy asserted, “man has feared molecules." Man, continued Gordy, feared fire and therefore he invented gods. Early man sacrificed to the sun because he did not understand the massive waves and chemical reactions involved, he said. Modern man, however, with his greater knowledge of molecules does not fear fire any more, but the man who sets the fires. But the key to understanding man, Gordy maintained, also lies in the molecule. He referred to the genetic structure which possesses the traits passed from parent to child. Gordy went on to say that recent research has shown that what we learn is also stored in molecules, thereby increasing the importance of the molecule to man.

Gordy also spoke Tuesday night to Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics, on “Techniques For Fraternity.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

tuning Biological Information From Molecules.” Gerdy, in a sly dig at kids, smoozing audience said he hoped his 16-year-old son would apply to Princeton. “He’s a bit reluctant,” Gerdy said, “because there are no girls here.”

DR. GORDY - Duke physicist.

Drama Group Prepares Mixed Media Production

The Drama Workshop has written a mixed media production, entitled “Algitu—An Entertainment,” about creation using symbolic characterizations, music ranging from The Beatles to Debussy, and projections of slides. Robert T. Barber Jr., assistant professor of drama, said that this is the first time one of his workshop classes has written its own material for presentation. The 38 class members, along with Jane Crowley, who plays the part of Eve, have been invited to present the production at the Contemporary Fine Arts Festival at Winthrop College today. “Algitu—An Entertainment” will also be presented in chapel on Tuesday.

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.

Charlotte Brooks will deliver his address “On the Design of Thinkers” at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. There will be a Phi Beta Kappa dinner in the Student Union before the speech at which time new members of PBK will be formally recognized. In announcing Brooks’ arrival on campus, Dr. Locke White, president of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson, said that Brooks “is a really eminent figure in the world of computers.” White felt that the name of the department that Brooks heads at Chapel Hill—Information Science—is indicative of his depth and broad appeal. “It is significant,” said White, “and not just gamesmanship that his department is named information science rather than computer science or some such.” “As evidence in support of the reality of the distinction, you might be interested to know that one of the professors in his department holds a joint appointment in the Department of English, and another in the Department of Sociology,” White said. Brooks received his degree in physics from Duke University and the M.S. and the Ph.D. in applied mathematics from Harvard University. He has held several advisory positions with IBM and also taught at Harvard, Vassar, and Columbia before going to UNC in 1965. Brooks is the co-author of “Automatic Data Processing.”

Behind Conder Soda Shop

Smith said, “Later on,” he said, “we would like to set up a downtown office somewhere to answer legal complaints from the underprivileged.” Response from other law students at North Carolina's four law schools has not been very good, Goldsmith said. About 20 are involved at both Duke and UNC-CH and there are two or three students at Wake Forest University and North Carolina College, he said.

Stalinist Era Evokes ‘Horror, Adulation’

Liberal writers and intellectuals are exposing the truth about the Stalinist era, according to Dr. Edmund T. Weiant, professor of languages at Queens College, who spoke Tuesday night at the SAE house in the “Blow-up 60” series. Weiant, who teaches Russian history, literature, and language, as well as German, has translated many modern Russian poems and read selections from poets such as Akhmatova and Yevtushenko. Weiant said that there are two extremes of feeling about the Stalin years, “one of horror and the other of adulation for the good old past.” Weiant said that the adulation of the past was exemplified by novelist Mikhail Sholokhov's call for a return to direct methods of revolutionary justice. He added that other writers “expressed a feeling of cold horror, the kind that slams the door on the dark corridors that lead to the past.” Boris Pasternak, author of Dr. Zhivago, had said that the Soviet literary reform would come from the grass roots, according to Weiant. “So when you read about liberalization of literature in Russia,” Weiant said, “keep your eye on the grass, for that’s where the action is.” Weiant read selections from several Russian poems, including the highly amusing “Fire in the Architectural Institute,” which describes the process by which one young man became a poet. The poem describes the feelings of a young architectural student watching his degree work going up in flames along with all the rest of the architectural institute. At the middle of the poem, the young man realizes that he cannot re-do all the work being destroyed in the fire, and he therefore decides to become a poet. Weiant said that many Russians believe poetry to be the national art, much as painting is the French national art.

TWO EXTREMES OF FEELING
Weiant talks on Soviet literary scene.

Saxons To Sing Hungry d Scene

The Saxons, who blend the sounds of baritone and counter-tenor in a baroque style, will appear at the Hungry d April 8-13 in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Shows will be held nightly Tuesday through Saturday at 8 and 9:15 except on Friday, when performances will be slightly later, following the Southern Folk Festival. The Saxons—Marvin Solly and Dan Goggin—accompany their program of yesterday and today's music with harpsichord and spice their concert with satiric dialogue between numbers. Since their meeting in David Merrick's Broadway production “Luther” in which they both sang major roles, Solly and Goggin have recorded an album, appeared on the Merv Griffin Show, and performed at numerous colleges and clubs throughout the United States and Canada. Hungry d reservations should be made at the Union desk. The admission price of $1.00 includes snacks, and sandwiches will be available a la carte. Solly and Goggin both attended college before beginning their professional careers in New York, Solly attending North Texas State and Indiana and Goggin Columbia and Michigan.

Ray, Jay Scheduled At Frolics

The football field will be the scene of a slightly different kind of action for Spring Frolics this year. Ray Charles and Jay and the Americans will perform at Richardson Field during Spring Frolics. Jay and the Americans perform Friday night. The group has produced such hits as “Only in America” and “Come a Little Bit Closer.” The Saturday night concert will feature Ray Charles and the Raelettes. Included in the show will be Billy Preston.

What’s a 1967 Olds doing in this 1968 Olds advertisement? It's making the point that you can own an Oldsmobile. If not a new one, then certainly a used one. Like the nifty 1967 Olds 4-4-2 you see here. Or a sporty used Cutlass convertible maybe. Or, even, one of those great Olds Rocket 88s. Of course, Olds dealers also carry a large stock of other brands on their Value-Rated used car lot. And should you decide on one of them instead... well, at least we'll know you picked a good place to do it. Drive a youngmobile from Oldsmobile. (New or used, it’s a fun car to own.)