Page Four January 12, 1968 The Davidsonian

Three Students Will Visit Haverford On Exchange
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Under the student exchange program, three students will go to Haverford College, Haverford, Pa., Joe Kilpatrick told the Student Council Monday. Kilpatrick, chairman of the Student Exchange committee, said that he, Pat Mullen, and George Penick, all sophomores, would go to Haverford "sometime in February." He said details were not yet complete, but he hopes to make the trip the first weekend in February.

"We want to encourage students and faculty members to confer with us before we leave," he said, "if they would like us to check on any particular aspect of the college. For example, one member of the English department has asked me to find out how the freshman English program is handled at Haverford."

Kilpatrick said Haverford was chosen because of its similarity to Davidson. He said students from Haverford may also visit Davidson in February to complete the exchange. This will be the first exchange trip of the year.

Along similar lines, Council President Tom Earnhardt suggested that the council send several delegates to one or more conferences which are being sponsored by other colleges this spring. The IMPACT symposium at Vanderbilt University was mentioned as one possibility.

Joe Murphy asked whether this would be "just a pleasure trip" or if the student body would derive some real benefit from the trip. "I think the student body ought to receive the value from the money they supply the Student Council," he added.

Earnhardt said the delegates could present an Open End to discuss with students the speeches and programs at the conference. He also said that "by keeping their eyes and ears open" the delegates could formulate some worthwhile projects for the school. A final decision on the matter was postponed until the next meeting.

In other council business, Earnhardt announced that Rep. James Gardner, R-N.C., and Rep. Nick Galifianakis, D-N.C., have both declined invitations to speak at Davidson second semester. They both said that heavy work schedules prevented their coming to Davidson.

The council decided to hold elections for the president of the College Union and the Social Council the second week in February. This will allow the new presidents to attend a block booking conference during the third week in February.

Criticism Given ROTC Training

Compulsory Reserve Officer Training Corps programs are meeting stiff opposition at schools other than Davidson. The faculty at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. voted Monday to take academic credit away from the ROTC there. Their decision must be ratified by the school's trustees later this year.

At Boston University, the faculty voted in December to drop academic credit for military training courses in September 1968. Northeastern University, also in Boston, abolished campus ROTC last spring. Howard University, a predominantly Negro institution in Washington, D.C., dropped compulsory ROTC after a student sit-in at the university president's office in November. Students at the university may still take the course, however. The Howard trustees decided to drop the military program, in spite of the fact that the university receives large amounts of general support funds from the government.

Four years ago, the United States Congress dropped the requirement that all students at land-grant institutions must take ROTC during their freshman and sophomore years. There are still programs at 246 colleges, but only a few make it compulsory in the first two years.

During the past year, ROTC has come under attack on many campuses because the training usually receives official academic credit even though the curriculum is set by the military and is beyond the control of the faculty. Defenders of the ROTC program have usually argued that if students want such a program, the university should provide it.

At Stanford University, the ROTC courses have been opened up to people, including women, who do not plan to go on to serve in the Army. A number of these "guests" have enrolled. Some say they enrolled in the courses because they want to challenge the assumptions of the military, while others say they enrolled only to learn more about military science. The university got special clearance from the Department of Defense to offer the courses to people other than candidates for commissions. However, a ROTC spokesman in Washington said there is nothing wrong with a university’s opening up a military science course covering men and women who will only attend the classroom phase of the course.

PROMOTION TIME
Outlaw presents citation to cadet.

Burts Gives Regulations For Examination Period

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts has notified faculty members of seven faculty regulations to be enforced in the exam period. The regulations are:
—No work will be accepted after the last scheduled meeting of the class before the exam period.
—A student whose absences

Six Attend City Study Conference

"Creative Angles For a Metropolitan Future" was the theme of the YMCA Student-Young Adult Conference in Washington, D.C., Dec. 28-Jan. 1 which five students and Chaplain Scott Woodmansee attended. The conference was divided into five "vision centers," including health, welfare, and recreation; education; political jurisdiction; transportation; and housing.

County Commissioners To Study Disposal Area

The Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners will meet on Monday to determine possible locations for a proposed sanitary garbage disposal area in the county. The purpose of the meeting will be to consider the commissioners’ request that any available site in the rural areas of the county might be adopted for the dump.

Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president, has led in the fight against the proposed garbage dump location on Concord Road here. However, he said, "This hearing does not present a threat to the town of Davidson as the original disposal proposal did."

25 Receive DMS Citations, Scabbard & Blade Taps 22

Twenty-five seniors received citations as Distinguished Military Students, and 22 seniors and juniors were tapped into Scabbard and Blade on Tuesday. By order of Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, the following students received DMS citations: Rusty Brannon, Steve Brown, Cecil Clifton, Gus Cochran, Don Crowder, Ron Dougherty, Frank Fleming, Joe Friebele, and Rick Harrell.

Also, Jim Furr, Ted Horne, Steve Humphrey, Ron Hunt, Will Hunter, Tom Irons, Tom Newberry, Larry Norfleet, Gary Peklo, Mike Powell, Julian Prosser, Allen Rogers, Ken Scott, Chip Vogan, Bill Walker, and Bill Wheeler.

The following seniors were tapped into Scabbard and Blade, a national military fraternity designed to promote interest and understanding of military affairs: Andy Beard, Andy Brabham, Rusty Brannon, Cecil Clifton, Don Crowder, Woody Faulk, and Bob Finlayson.

Also, Frank Fleming, Joe Friebele, Locke Holland, Ted Horne, Charles Perry, Mike Powell, Allen Rogers, Bruce Weihe, and Bill Walker.

These juniors were also tapped: Dave Dunn, Don Gately, Mike Johnson, Greg Simmons, Mike Spann, and Garee Thomas. The ceremonies were conducted in Love Auditorium during the drill period.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases. | Michel: 375-9723 217 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C. 28202

Bondurant owns a farm near the proposed dump area. He claims that the Concord Road site would hurt those farm owners who bought property in the area and were hoping to see the land value increase. Bondurant said that he hopes there will eventually be “some way to reclaim the garbage and waste for use as fertilizer and soil conditioner.”

Students who exceed 25 per cent of the class meetings will receive a grade of “F”.

—Students must take examinations at the scheduled time except where a professor has two sections of the same course. The professor may allow students to take the exam with his other section.

—A student who is more than 15 minutes late for an exam will not have his paper graded unless he has a satisfactory excuse. Exams must be finished within three hours. With the permission of the professor, students may leave the exam for periods of not over five minutes.

—When an exam is submitted to a professor in a manner other than that in which he requires his papers, the faculty Executive Committee will determine whether a re-exam or failure grade will be given.

—A student who fails to take an exam for a reason approved by Burts will receive an “incomplete” and will normally take the exam at the next re-exam period.

—An “incomplete” will be given when part of the course work has been deferred for a reason approved by Burts.

Aiken Lobbies For Manor Use
By James Lee
Staff Writer

“Direction of activities at Lingle Manor after the dissolution of the manor group next semester should be left in the hands of the Union,” B. A. Aiken said. This claim brought the College Union into the controversy over the possession of the Lingle Manor property. Members of the manor voted last fall to let the Student Council determine a use for the facilities. The council gave the opportunity to the Freshmen Council which initiated plans to develop the property as a center of activities primarily for freshmen.

A breach in the proper procedure has been pointed out. The proper procedure would have been for the manor group to submit a proposal to the faculty through the faculty committee, the College Union, fraternities, and clubs. According to Aiken, both the Freshmen Council and the College Union have asked that requests be submitted on their behalf to determine the future of the manor.

Aiken said that it would be a mistake to turn the manor over to any group on campus which is basically unsuited and financially unable to support activities. He said, “We are not trying to compete with the freshmen, but we are concerned with whether the Freshmen Council is an appropriate programming body to control the manor.”

Proposals have been made by Union staff members that the property be set up in some way to offer students a place to meet and exchange ideas on an informal basis, and might be open all night. Aiken stressed that he felt the property should be developed for use by all members of the student body.

Required Chapels Uncertain

The number of required chapel and assembly programs for next fall remains uncertain due to the curriculum changes as outlined by the Blue Sky Committee. The Religious Policy Committee, which must meet to consider Chaplain Scott Woodmansee’s proposal that there be fewer chapel periods next year, has not yet met. No meeting has been scheduled.

If Woodmansee's proposal is accepted, it would provide for two chapel periods each week. One would be allotted to religious speakers and outside speakers on major issues, while the other period would be set aside for student organizations and speakers contracted by those organizations. Woodmansee said, “I can't get any speakers for next year until I am certain about specific dates.”

Magazine Polling To Select Presidential Preferences

Davidson students will be invited to participate in CHOICE 68, a national collegiate presidential preference primary in April, sponsored by “Time” magazine. The Student Council voted Monday to organize the primary, which is being offered to all colleges and universities in the country. “Time” will underwrite the cost of the national organization and administration of CHOICE 68 and will furnish the ballots for the vote.

The voter may indicate on the ballot his age, political party affiliation or preference, and three choices for President. The presidential candidates will be grouped by party, but the student will be allowed to cross party lines in his vote. There will also be three referenda issues, each with four to six possible responses which cover a broad spectrum of opinion. Immediately following the voting, ballots will be sent to computer centers for tabulation. Students will vote on April 24. The Student Council will supervise the election.

Why The Christian Science Monitor recommends you read your local newspaper

Your local newspaper is a wide-range newspaper with many features. Its emphasis is on local news; it also reports the major national and international news.

THE MONITOR COMPLEMENTS YOUR LOCAL PAPER

We specialize in analyzing and interpreting the important national and international news. Our intention is to bring the news into sharper focus. The Monitor has a world-wide staff of correspondents — some of them rank among the world's finest. And the Monitor's incisive, provocative editorials are followed just as closely by the men on Capitol Hill as they are by the intelligent, concerned adult on Main Street.

WHY YOU SHOULD TRY THE MONITOR

You probably know the Monitor's professional reputation as one of the world’s finest newspapers. Try the Monitor; see how it will take you above the average newspaper reader. Just fill out the coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway Street
Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A. 02115

Please start my Monitor subscription for the period checked below. I enclose (U.S. funds).

6 months $12
1 year $24
3 months $6

Name
Street
City
State
ZIP Code

Five Selected To Attend Convention

Five members of Davidson's Young Republican's Club have been selected to represent their precinct at the County Republican Nominating Convention. These delegates, according to Joe Beard, Young Republican Club member, will elect delegates to the state convention. Other Davidson students are planning to attend precinct meetings, also.

Elected at the meeting of the local precinct were: Joe Beard, secretary; Alec Riddle, delegate to the county convention; Jim McNair, precinct committee member; Mrs. Homer Smith and Mrs. Anthony Abbott, vice-presidents.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
Swain's Charcoal Steak House
1800 West Morehead Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 332-2414

Winter Clearance Sale
Begins Thursday, Jan. 11 — 9 A.M.
Suits — Sports Coats — Pants — Sweaters — Shirts
Reductions to 25%
Cuffs Free — Other Alterations Extra — No Exchanges or Refunds
Bush Wilson, Inc.
Davidson, N.C.

ROAD along with a $200 deposit, by Monday, Jan. 15. (Staff photos by Weems.)

Faculty Executive Committee will determine whether a re-exam or failure grade will be given.

A student who fails to take an exam for a reason approved by Burts will receive an “incomplete” and will normally take the exam at the next re-exam period.

An “incomplete” will be given when part of the course work has been deferred for a reason approved by Burts.

Where’s the best place in town to eat?
The Wildcat Den
We specialize in:
Pizza
Delicatessen Sandwiches
BIG Hamburgers
“Specials” different each day
Cheese Cake
Carry-out Orders
Bulk Quantities
Quick, efficient service
In a hurry? Call ahead so we can have your dinner waiting when you arrive.
See you at The Wildcat Den!

Exams, Exams, Exams
Lots of things are happening next week
Exams, Exams, Exams
and our sale of winter merchandise starts Wed., Jan. 17th.
John Mack & Son
Our 56th Continuous Year
Mooresville, N.C.