Page Eight October 4, 1968 The Davidsonian

Winter Consort To Launch Homecoming, Artist Series

By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

The Paul Winter Contemporary Consort will kick off Homecoming and the year's Artist Series with a concert next Friday night at 8. The Contemporary Consort's repertoire is broad, including blues, Bach cantatas, folk pieces, and original compositions by Winter.

The second of the year's five Artist Series performances will be Curlew River on Oct. 26, a modern opera styled after the medieval religious drama but based on the ancient Japanese play. On Jan. 14, the National Players, the longest-running touring company in the United States, will perform. Ilona Kombrink, a young soprano who has appeared in several roles in Charlotte's Ovens Auditorium, will be at Davidson Feb. 24. She recently has teamed with Davidson composer Wilmer H. Welsh in preparing an original concerto and other works.

The final Artist Series performance will be by Philippe Entremont on March 24. Entremont is a talented French pianist who has been a favorite of American concert audiences since 1953 and has recorded for Columbia Records.

The Winter Consort gets its name from the Renaissance Consort, one of the earliest instrumental groups that attempted to achieve a homogeneous blend among their instruments. Only the woodwinds, strings, and percussion instruments were used. The Winter Consort is based on this same ideal. They also use such exotic instruments as the African thumb-piano, the Israeli jar-drum, the Renaissance racket (an ancient double-reed instrument), and others.

The group will soon release an album produced in conjunction with Paul Stookey of Peter, Paul, and Mary. Following Winter's performance, there will be a combo party in Chambers basement featuring Clifford Curry with the Originals, who recorded “She Shot a Hole in My Soul.” The movie “A Man and a Woman” will be shown from 12-2 a.m., followed by a bonfire-blanket party with live folk music or jazz on the new baseball field.

Chuck Jackson will highlight Saturday night of Homecoming with a concert at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. “Bridging the gap between down-to-earth and sophisticated soul, Jackson is a dynamic showman with a tremendous voice,” according to Union Board Social Chairman David Troxler. Known for such hits as “I Don't Want to Cry,” “Any Day Now,” and “Something You Got,” the Motown recording artist has recently been touring nightclub and college circuits, Troxler said. After the Jackson concert, there will be a combo party in Chambers dining hall, followed by “A Man and a Woman” in the Morrison Room. Topping off the night will be a breakfast from 3-5 a.m. in the Union cafeteria.

Faculty To Hold Worship Service

Davidson College will hold its first faculty convocation worship service at 7:30 p.m. Sunday in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The service, proposed last spring by the faculty, is designed to include the college community in a worship service to begin the academic year. Faculty members will wear caps and gowns for the occasion.

The guest preacher will be Dr. J. A. Ross Mackenzie, professor of church history at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. He was born in Scotland, educated at Edinburgh University and New College there, and has represented the Presbyterian Church U.S. in several interdenominational ventures. Presiding will be the Rev. R. Scott Woodmansee, college chaplain, and Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college. Music will be furnished by Wilmer H. Welsh, organist, and by the Male Chorus, directed by Donald B. Plott.

Boycott’s Target: Charlotte Stores

By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

Stores in residential areas of Charlotte will be the target of a small group of Davidson students seeking to organize support for a boycott of the sale of California table grapes. Seniors Marvin Sparrow and Mike Norris are trying to introduce the nation-wide boycott in the Charlotte area because the effort has received little publicity in the South since its start a year ago.

The boycott arose out of a strike begun by California grape pickers 43 months ago. Cesar Chavez, former grape-picker and organizer of the strike, felt that a boycott was necessary to get the grape growers to recognize the farm workers union. The growers circumvented the strike by hiring strike-breakers to pick their grapes, Sparrow said. Although sales in California have dropped 20 percent since the boycott began, Sparrow is the first active organizer for support of the boycott in the Charlotte area. A campus meeting Sept. 26 attracted about 10 to 12 other students interested in the effort. Sparrow, Norris, and other students visited stores in southeast Charlotte including the Cotswold and Charlottetown Mall shopping centers last weekend to start organizing the boycott.

Satanic Art Places In

By GEORGE ALLEN
News Editor

Bill Moye’s paintings are “frightening, nervous, and satanic, and demonic in their perception,” according to one of Moye’s friends. Moye, a sophomore from Hickory, entered one of his paintings in the Charlotte Art League's Tri-State Open Painting and Sculpture Show last week and won a prize of $50 for third place in the painting division.

The painting which won, a tempera entitled “Wash,” pictured a black woman hanging out her laundry on a line stretched across her backyard. Although Moye painted “Wash” when he was 16, he titled it just before entering it in the art show. “I wanted to keep the title simple,” said Moye. “I wanted a title without too much significance yet still having some relevance to the painting.”

Although his paintings have been described as “satanic and demonic,” Moye is a gentle, sensitive, shy person. “‘Wash’ is completely contrived, painted with no real message intended,” he said. “What may be frightening about the painting is that, for no particular reason, I ignored some details which might usually be heightened and emphasized others which might otherwise be overlooked.

“I became fascinated by the geometry of the wires with the laundry on them,” Moye said. “With the perspective of the wires, the painting moves in two different directions. You have to look both at the woman in the foreground and at the converging wires in the background. It is certainly nothing pretty to look at, at all.”

Moye is essentially a self-made artist. Except for a six-week art course he took as a child, he has had no formal art training. “Training isn’t worth too much,” Moye said. “Practice makes the painter. I'm OPEN HOUSE The following faculty homes will be open to students this Sunday after the faculty convocation: Callender Jackson Court

OPEN DORM EXPERIMENT (Staff Photo by Davidson) Freshman Russ Merritt's room was moved during a movie.

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editor:
DICK ANDERSON

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Cartoonist:
CULLUM ROGERS

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week:
Sterling Abernathy, Biff Fine, A. W. Turner Jr., Don Parman, Charlie Terrell, Russ Merritt, Robert W. Wallace, John McLean, Ed Shoaf, Norwood Poland, Paul Rowland, Philip Philips, Rob Krehbiel, Tony White, Chuck Green, Jim Cecil Burney, Bill Lineaweaver, Steve Roady, Jute Young, and John Rowe.to the Box. 

1. Anyone forgetting his Name spends the night in the Box.
2. Anyone forgetting the RULES spends the night in the Box.
3. Anyone caught wearing his beanie spends the night in the Box.
4. Anyone caught drinking spends the night in the Box.
5. Anyone caught with an article in his room spends two nights in the Box.
6. Anyone caught having a panty raid spends a term in the Box.
7. Anyone caught dirty rushing spends a night in the Box.
8. Anyone caught witnessing a duel spends a night in the Box.
9. Anyone caught playing football spends the night in the Box.
10. Anyone caught sneaking out spends the night in the Box.
11. Anyone caught sleeping through a water bottle spends the night in the Box.
12. Anyone caught missing through a visit to the infirmary spends the night in the Box.
13. Anyone caught riding the elevators in the dorms spends the night in the Box.
14. Anyone caught regularly spends the night in the Box.
15. Anyone caught paddling spends two nights in the Box.
16. Anyone caught with friends and Zeke and friends spends the night in the Box.

FRESHMAN REGULATIONS, FRESHMAN VERSION

The Eighteen and One Laws appeared on the door of the tiny brick building between Cannon and East dormitories this week, perhaps as the freshmen’s idea for a replacement to the just-repealed freshman regulations. As to what’s in the building, known as The Box, no one is quite sure, so an annex was opened several days after the rules went up. The annex? Cannon dorm. (Staff Photo by Lyle).

Church Rule On Agenda

A resolution that would lessen the so-called Presbyterian restriction on the Davidson presidency will be considered by the Board of Trustees at its annual fall meeting here next weekend. Up for a vote will be a resolution docketed last May that would alter the trustee bylaw requiring that the college's president be a member of the Presbyterian Church when elected and a member of the Presbyterian Church in the United States (Southern) when inaugurated. The resolution, proposed May 3 in response to criticism of the controversial bylaw, still stresses, however, that the president be a “dedicated Christian.”

“Since that man will be so clearly recognized as a Christian leader,” Trustee President Walter L. Lingle Jr. said in May, he should become a member of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church before his inauguration “to clearly demonstrate that he has that dedication to religious leadership in the college.”

Also on the agenda for next weekend are discussions of a location for the new Edward H. Little Library, an investigation of the college’s endowment investment policies, and a decision on the Code of Responsibility.

New Cinema Exhilarating, Sad, Shocking, Hilarious Experience

A REVIEW By ANTHONY S. ABBOTT

New Cinema: Program One is an exhilarating experience, sometimes hilarious, sometimes sad, sometimes shocking, but always alive and thought-provoking. What is New Cinema? It is a collection of nine short films, three in color, that run the gamut from slapstick comedy to profound social criticism. The films vary in length from the two short pieces of animation, “Enter Hamlet” and “Two Castles,” both under five minutes, to the 27-minute finale of the evening, “La Jetee,” a searching study of man's mortal limitations.

The first half of the program is largely humorous, with three of the first five films — “Enter Hamlet,” “The Standing Still Film,” and “Two Castles” — utilizing a variety of successful comic techniques. The most ingenious and imaginative film in this part of the program is “Renaissance,” in which a series of objects in a room reassemble themselves after an explosion. The technical achievement here is extraordinary, and beneath the surface absurdity, there is a clear and meaningful point to be made.

The second half of the program demands closer investigation. With the audience well hooked by the effective humor of the first five films, two of the last four put the viewer through intense emotional experiences that leave him stunned at the end. “Corrida Interdite” is by itself worth the price of admission as it portrays in shocking graphic terms the various stages of the bullfight from the opening passes to the final killing of the bull — or matador. “La Jetee,” the final film of the program, creates an experience very nearly equal to that of “Corrida Interdite.” On the surface a science fiction adventure in which a survivor of World War III visits both his past and his future, it utilizes fine dramatic performances to focus on man’s eternal struggle to overcome isolation and transcend death.

I have not yet commented on three of the films — “Allures,” “The Fat and the Lean,” and “Les Mistons.” The first is a color vision of outer space in which audio and visual are beautifully coordinated. The second is an allegory much like Samuel Beckett's play “Endgame” in which a thin servant waits upon a fat master and dreams of freedom. It makes most effective use of irony to make its major point, a point that each member of the audience will interpret in his own way. Finally, there is “Les Mistons,” to me the one disappointment of the evening. Directed by France's Francois Truffault, whose superb feature-length film, “Shoot the Piano Player,” will be shown later this year, “Les Mistons” does not demonstrate either what Truffault is capable of nor what the film medium is capable of. It tells an interesting story of adolescent envy and confusion, but its visual techniques are dull and unimaginative; it fails to translate its story into cinematic terms.

One failure out of nine is not much to complain of. All in all, “New Cinema: Program One” is an exceptional achievement, rising at least twice to the level of great art.

And wherever you find a congenial crowd, you'll find Coca-Cola. For Coca-Cola has the refreshing taste you never get tired of. That's why things go better with Coke, after Coke, after Coke.

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
Concord, N. C.