MORE LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Seigler Offers Complete Bidding Plan

To The Editor:

Each year at this time some senior decides to make some reflections upon his four years at Davidson. Rather than
reminisce about great experiences and friendships, I would like to discuss the need and prospectus for continued change and progress.
We have come a long way in the past four years. Restrictions are slowly being lifted. There is more concern
for fellow students, which can be seen in the philosophy behind the extended rush program.

As a senior, I hope the students here will continue to examine other avenues for expressing greater concern for their
fellow students, college, and community. I would like to see Davidson become bolder in its outlook, showing greater leadership in
adopting policies to promote an improved academic and social atmosphere. American colleges and universities desperately need such leadership.

As students, it is often easier to complain and demand changes than it is for us to make gambles ourselves
about which we are unsure and which may cause hardships. But if we are to be called leaders, if we
want responsibility, then we must dare to make changes if they are needed. We must continually look for ways to
improve the life at Davidson for all the students.

One change which might be beneficial for Davidson students would be the institution of 100 per cent bidding during rush.
Though fraternity members often are aghast at the suggestion, this alternative to the present system would show student initiative, concern,
and perhaps imagination in working to solve an old problem at Davidson.

The arguments on both sides must be weighed carefully. Other schools which have taken the lead and tried such proposals
should be consulted and visited. While there is not enough room to discuss the arguments in full detail, I would
like to point out some considerations needing discussion.

One argument against 100 per cent bidding would be that it endangers the status quo in a system that works
well for most students. Also, fraternities might expect to experience trouble with “national,” perhaps ending in the revocation of some
charters. One should also consider the effect of 100 per cent bidding on the mystic aura of brotherhood if a
student is invited to a house where he might have been blackballed otherwise. The crucial question is: How important is
the blackball to brotherhood? Finally, there might arise the problem of having enough room for additional members, which conceivably could
lead to another house. Further consideration to these problems should be given. Indeed the status quo would be endangered with
such an experiment; no one can be sure of the results.

Under this year’s improved extended rush program, 80-85 per cent of the freshmen will receive bids. But this still leaves
15-20 per cent who will not have the opportunity to experience fraternity life. What would the change mean to them?
The question of brotherhood is central. Would the presence of perhaps three more students a year at each house ruin
the brotherhood? Is the fraternity’s goal unanimity or friendship toward the members of the house? What is the responsibility of
the “system” toward each student at Davidson College?

There are obvious advantages to 100 per cent bidding. The system would become a source of pride for all the
students. Each would be offered its advantages (and at Davidson these advantages are needed). None would feel its rejection. The
life of the Independent would also become a more viable possibility. Each student would have open to him this way
of campus life because of his own choice, not because of the necessity caused by rejection.

Such a system could be implemented with relative ease. Perhaps it would be best that each student could be assured
at least two bids, giving the student the final choice. This is not as drastic as it might seem in
that it would not affect a large number of students and yet would increase student initiative in choosing the fraternity.
The bids to all the freshmen could be sent out at the same time. Each freshman could list his preferences
concerning fraternities, so fraternity presidents could know more about those not receiving bids and work to match those students with
the houses that would receive them best and that the student himself preferred.

Of course, the above does not even pretend to answer all the questions or problems concerning 100 per cent bidding.
But I do hope that it might create some open debate and discussion about this alternative to the present system.
The students would also have to decide for themselves the importance of “national.” Is it the student or the name
that makes the fraternity? Would the fraternity men be willing to sacrifice the latter for the sake of fellow students?

Admittedly, the adoption of such a system would require some sacrifices on the part of students, especially of those in
the more selective fraternities. And it would require the acceptance, openly and with friendship, of some students who otherwise would
not receive bids. Of some students, this will be asking a lot. It will require maturity and judgment on the
part of both the freshmen and upperclassmen. But if Davidson College is to be a leader, its students should take
the lead. The possibility of 100 per cent bidding needs further discussion.

Bill Seigler, ‘68
Davidson College

Richardson Scholars Ask School To Change Program

To The Editor:

With the year rapidly drawing to a close, we undersigned Richardson Scholars would like to express our thanks to the
Davidson College community and the Richardson Foundation for making our stay possible and rewarding.

Since the Richardson Foundation is withdrawing its support from the foreign student program, we think that this is the time
to re-evaluate the program and make some constructive suggestions for its improvement.

The program has generally two aims. One is the benefit incurred from a cultural exchange. The other is purely academic.
Since this is only a one-year program, it seems that the first aim should be stressed. Experience shows this not
to be the case. Ideally, the two aims should be combined. But to do this the foreign student cannot be
looked upon as a regular Davidson student. For various reasons this is true.

There are among us basically two groups—those who come to Davidson primarily for the cultural benefit and those who come
primarily for the academic benefit. The former are vastly in the majority, but the position of the latter must not
be slighted. If a foreign student wants to concentrate on his studies, he should be able to. But if he
seeks knowledge about the American way of life, provision should be made. As the program now stands, the foreign student
is forced to put academics first. Some Richardson Scholars have blatantly refused to do this.

We think that: (1) applicants should be notified of what precisely will be expected of them in the classroom (we
were not); (2) those who control the foreign student program should clearly redefine it in such a way that they
recognize the fact that most foreign students do not come to the United States to concentrate on studies simply because
they will receive no credit for their pains unless they plan to continue at another American university; (3) there should
be a chance for supervised independent work, in which a foreign student could study those things which are common knowledge
to Davidson students—e.g., the racial situation, the poverty problem, or the systems of elections and government; and finally, (4) there
should be a greater opportunity for the various foreign students to use their cultures to diversify the academic environment.

We think that the goals of such a cultural exchange as this one are not being effected mainly because the
present program does not recognize that most of the foreign students do not come to Davidson for the same reasons
that the rest of the student body does.

We invite those of you who are responsible for making the policies affecting foreign students, the Richardson Scholars who disagree
with this statement, and anyone else who is interested to a coffee hour on Monday, May 13, in the Morrison
Room during chapel period to discuss informally the issues which we have tried to raise.

Michael Brechneff
Peitenburg Carillo Benitez
Eckhart Grimm
N. Ishikawa
J. P. Chambre
Luigi E. Simonelli
Simon Bell
Naim Ahmed
Mamoru Ikeda
Bolivar Bolanos
Hugo Lennant Voog
Richardson Scholars
Davidson College

Saturday, May 11
8:15 p.m. “The Boy Friend”

Monday, May 13
10:10 a.m. Farewell Coffee for Richardson Scholars
10:20 a.m. Court of Appeals
8 p.m. Movie “The Chapman Report”

Tuesday, May 14
10:20 a.m. Chapel Athletic Awards Day
6 p.m. DAVIDSONIAN Banquet
8 p.m. Steve Klein African Safari

Wednesday, May 15
7:30 p.m. Le Cercle Francais
8:15 p.m. Male Chorus Concert
10 p.m. Open End Up ‘n’ Coming

Fraternity Averages
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.980
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.975
Pi Kappa Phi 1.968
Phi Delta Theta 1.913
Alpha Tau Omega 1.870
Sigma Nu 1.839
Phi Gamma Delta 1.789
Kappa Alpha 1.717
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.672
Sigma Chi 1.672
Beta Theta Pi 1.630
Kappa Sigma 1.571

Fraternities Alter Attitudes Toward Extended Rushing

After an initial dislike of the extended rush program because “it was something the faculty had crammed down our throat,”
fraternities reversed their attitude.According to IFC President Bobby Vagt, Vagt said the program is now viewed "as a really good
deal all around," and termed the number of extended rushees receiving bids as “remarkable.” Eleven out of the 33 extended
rushees have received bids and one has become a social affiliate. The extended rush program was instituted this year after
national offices turned down a program of social affiliation for all students going through rush and not receiving bids. Of
the 33 who participated in the program the first quarter after rush, seven dropped out before the second quarter, and
14 continued.

The IFC Resets Rush Party Schedule

The Interfraternity Council Tuesday adopted a motion to move rush to the weekend but deferred consideration of specific rush rules
until next week.

Guy Owen Cites Strength Of Southern Literature

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Guy Owen, English professor and author of “The Flim-Flam Man," spoke on Southern writing in the Blow-Up ‘68 series Tuesday
night at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house. Owen, who is also editor of several Southern poetry reviews, said that during
the late twenties and thirties a great renaissance had occurred in the literature of the South, which H. L. Mencken
had once likened to a “Sahara of the beaux arts.” According to Owen, this renaissance was due to advantages common
to all Southern writers. “For one thing, Southern writers have a tremendous number of local dialects which they can draw
on,” Owen said. “Mark Twain, for example, boasted in ‘Huckleberry Finn’ that he had used not one but seven different
dialects.” Another advantage was that Southerners have developed the “art of anecdotes,” which Owen said enabled Southern writers to draw
on a large fund of stories and jokes for the material of their knowledge. “Also, having spent their lives in
one locality due to the old lack of mobility in Southern life, Southern writers were able to rely on a
strong sense of place to set their characters in concrete situations.” Owen illustrated these advantages by reading a selection from
“The Flim-Flam Man,” which had all three of these elements. Told in a Catawba region dialect, the selection was taken
from a story Owen once overheard about a moonshiner who became a crusading minister in the area. It was set
in Owen's own home region, with characters drawn from the people of his boyhood.

On the other hand, Owen pointed out that all Southern writers have certain inherent disadvantages. “Southerners are generally timid and
shy and tend to be very conservative,” Owen said, “and they are not the ones to make breakthroughs in communicating
experiences.” As evidence, Owen pointed out that long after New Englanders had quit imitating the English, the Southern writers were
still writing what Owen termed “shallow and superficial” imitations of English literature. Owen also feels that Southern authors write under
the shadow of the great Southern novelists of the thirties, such as William Faulkner. Owen likened the shadow to that
under which the dramatist of post-Shakespeare England had to write, “with the great figure of Shakespeare looming over his shoulder.”
According to Owen, this difficulty is due to the fact that many believe present-day Southern authors are writing at the
end of the Southern renaissance.

Merit Only Basis For Promotions

The recent faculty promotions, approved by the trustees at their spring meeting, were made “purely on the basis of merit,
as they always are,” according to Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty. “There is nothing automatic about promotions at
Davidson,” Johnston said. “They are based partly on department recommendations and partly on length of time at Davidson, but the
main factor is the ability of the professor.” He said there is no formal committee which deals with promotions. The
final decision rests with the dean of the faculty. A person who has taught seven years at an institution of
higher learning, at least four of which were at Davidson, usually receives tenure after this period. There is no specific
requirement of a certain degree to get tenure, Johnston said, but the person must be a member of a Christian
church and in basic agreement with the purpose of the college. “Promotions are often held back a year or two
because of a tight budget,” he said, “or because there are already too many people at a certain level in
a particular department.” Students are not usually consulted in making the promotions, he added.

Dobbs Gets Grant For Radio Station

Ed Dobbs, chairman of the student committee for a school radio station, reported Wednesday that the committee had received an
Activities Grant of $1,000 for the installation of the station next fall. Dobbs presented an itemized report to the Union
Board early this week stating that he needed the grant for such things as research on other school radio stations,
a transmitter, installation costs, and the publication of a monthly broadcast brochure. Next year the station will depend on college
funds for its support, Dobbs said. The committee is seeking foundations to support the station in the future, he added.

Under the new schedule, rush parties will be held Thursday and Friday nights and Saturday and Sunday afternoons during the
first week of the second term, with bids to be mailed out Sunday night and returned Monday morning. Assistant Dean
of Students Jim Terry reported that academic averages of four fraternities averaged over 1.9 and indicated that the faculty was
pleased. Terry also reported an unusual number of parking tickets for cars on the fraternity court and also asked for
action on complaints of cars parking on the grass in front of fraternity houses. The new rush schedule was instituted
as a result of complaints about the week of study lost in rush. Rush parties have taken three hours per
night Monday through Thursday under the present system, with fraternity meetings afterwards, which often continue until 3 or 4 a.m.

College Custodian Willie Pryor Dies

Funeral services for Willie Pryor, 40, of Rt. 2, Huntersville, a college custodian, were held last Thursday at United Presbyterian
Church in Huntersville. He died April 29 in Lowrance Hospital in Mooresville following a brief illness. Pryor joined the college
staff in January 1967, and worked in the library, Chambers Building, the College Union, and the two science buildings. Extended
rushees are assigned to fraternity houses by the IFC. Out of the 271 in the freshman class, 264 participated in
rush, 230 received bids and accepted them, and all the rest who did not receive bids entered the extended rush
program. Vagt said the program would be continued next year “with the extended rushees at the house full time.”

Dr. Albert C. Winn Will Address Graduates

Dr. Albert C. Winn, president of Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, will be the baccalaureate speaker for Davidson College's commencement exercises June
2. The service will be at 11 a.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Traditionally there is no other special
guest speaker during graduation exercises at the college. Winn, who graduated from Davidson in 1942, received his B.D. and Th.D.
degrees from Union Seminary in Richmond, and later his Th.M. degree from Princeton Seminary. He served as a chaplain in
the U.S. Navy Reserve during 1943-46, returning to teach at Davidson during 1946-47. For five years he was a pastor
in Nokesville, Va., then taught at Stillman College and at Louisville Seminary.

SGA Committee Organizes New Recruiting Program

By GEORGE ALLEN
News Editor

An SGA committee has been organized to encourage more student participation in high school recruiting, according to Gary Henschen, a
member of the Student Recruiting Committee. Henschen said that students involved in the program will visit the high schools near
their homes during vacation periods. “We are going to concentrate on high schools where the fewest number of Davidson students
are from,” said Henschen. “Primarily Negro and low-income schools,” he added. The recruiting program will consist of three stages. The
student will first hold a group meeting with those high school students who appear qualified for Davidson. The recruiter will
then hold individual conferences with those students who are really interested in Davidson. Finally, the committee will try to send
recruiters to all the college days in the high schools in North Carolina. Those students interested in signing up for
the recruiting program are encouraged to contact Henschen, Gary Cash, or Steve Engstrom. There will be an orientation session for
those who volunteer for the program. The student recruiting program was begun by former Student Body President Tom Earnhardt, while
he was second vice-president, but ran into difficulties in the past year when Earnhardt was unable to continue personal direction
of the program. The program has been termed an integral part of the Negro Scholarship Fund by Rick Harrell, one
of the chairmen of the fund. The fund, which has risen to $2100 so far, would provide a full scholarship
to a Negro student with voluntary contributions from students.
