Wayne Huckel hastens to the line... Kivisto, ‘Cats and Kansas

In spite of all of the good qualities of Ohio’s all-state guard, Doug Hill, who signed with the Wildcats this
week, Lefty Driesell is no doubt still shaking his head at the loss of All-American Bob Kivisto, who last weekend
chose the University of Kansas. The flashy Kivisto, labeled by Assistant Coach Terry Conboy as the “best guard in the
country,” had narrowed his choice down to three schools before making his decision. Davidson and Notre Dame were the runners-up.
In narrowing his offers, he discarded over 200 competing contacts. Discarded along the way were top basketball powers such as
UCLA, Duke, and North Carolina. But the question which still remained unanswered was “Why Kansas?”

In a telephone interview from his Aurora, Ill. home Wednesday evening, Kivisto tried to list his reasons. “The basketball programs
at the two schools are very similar,” he said in an obvious effort to make sure that everyone understood his
high regard for Davidson. “Both teams have great coaches, but there is a difference in the teams themselves.”

“I was really impressed by the sophomore group at Davidson,” Kivisto said, “but the freshman group down there just didn’t
have the potential which the Kansas’ freshman team had.” “I'd like to play with the Davidson sophomore group, but I'd
only have one year of play with them, while at Kansas I'll be playing with a top team for two
years,” he added.

Kivisto also pointed to the tougher conference competition which Kansas meets. He said that he felt the loss of West
Virginia would hurt Southern Conference basketball prestige. In addition, according to the flashy guard, Kansas will be playing a tougher
schedule during the coming years.

But Kivisto did like Davidson, and Davidson’s basketball program. “The coaching staff impressed me greatly,” he said. “I guess they
were the reason for Davidson being in my final three.” “I had always been aware of Davidson basketball,” Kivisto said.
“I was quite interested in college basketball throughout the Hetzel and Snyder days down there, but I knew virtually nothing
about Davidson as a school.”

He gave credit for his visit to Davidson to Assistant Coach Terry Holland. “I met him last fall after a
practice session at school, and I was very impressed. He got me interested.” So Kivisto came to Davidson, and he
got the full treatment from everyone. He liked the campus. He found the Charlotte Coliseum to his liking. Still, he
was most impressed with the coaches. “They impressed me both as coaches and as gentlemen,” he noted.

But Kivisto went to Kansas. Modestly he says that he is sure that it won’t hinder Davidson's basketball hopes. “You
have a fine team at Davidson,” he said, “a fine basketball program, and I'm sure it is going to continue
as a top basketball school. I hope we at Kansas will have a chance to play against you, perhaps in
a national championship.”

What the Davidson team will be like with Hill in Kivisto’s place is still hard to say. But Kansas sure
won't be hurt by the addition. The 'Cats will miss a guard who can dribble like crazy, play great defense,
and average 28 points per game. Hopefully Hill will fill the gap well. There's always Kivisto’s little brother, who as
a sophomore this year was an all-conference performer. Better luck next time.

Basketball Coach Lefty Driesell stopped between recruiting trips this week to announce the signing of two top high school stars
to Davidson grants-in-aid. An explosive guard from Chillicothe, Ohio, Doug Hill, and a 6-4 Negro star from Pittsburgh, Pa., Lester
Strong, became the first two Wildcat signees.

Two times all-state in Ohio, Hill averaged 21 points per game this season at Ross Southeastern High School in Richmond
Dale in Ohio. He led his team to the state playoffs in the last two years.

Wildcats Name Top Cage Foes

The Davidson basketball squad this week announced its all-opponent team for the 1967-68 season. Vanderbilt's Tom Hagen, who led the
Commodores to two defeats of the Wildcats this season, polled 10 votes from the 14 players to lead the balloting.
Joining Hagen on the first team were Ron Williams of West Virginia, Mike Lewis of Duke, Steve Butler of Memphis
State, and Rusty Clark of North Carolina. Carolina’s Larry Miller and Charlie Scott found positions on the second team, along
with Duke's Dave Golden, Columbia's Jim McMillian, and St. Johns’ John Warren.

Huckel Hurls In Annual Spring Fling

... plants his feet and cocks his arm... being named to the all-state tournament team both times. An excellent shooter
who can shoot without a screen, he hit on 49 percent of his field goal attempts this year. He scored
1290 points during his high school career. He was the district player of the year, three times all-conference and started
in the Ohio North-South All-Star game held last month in Marion, Ohio. Driesell hopes that Hill will be able to
fill the shoes of Dave Moser, who will retire at the end of next season. Assistant Coach Terry Holland, who
recruited Hill, thinks he has the credentials to do so, and labels him as “explosive in a one-on-one situation.” Both
the Associated Press and United Press International selected him as an all-state first team member during both his junior and
senior years. Scholastically he ranks fourth in his class of 95, and is his school’s representative to Ohio's Boys’ State
this summer.

Strong, whom Driesell labels as a “tremendous leaper,” averaged 18.5 points per game this year and 16 rebounds per game
over the last two years. A three-year standout at Pittsburgh's Braddock High School, he starred this year on the Western
Pennsylvania all-star team in the annual Dapper Dan Classic. Strong is highly regarded by Assistant Coach Jerry Conboy, who recruited
him. Conboy was a coach in Pittsburgh before Davidson. A top student, Strong ranks second in a large class, is
a member of National Honor Society and plans to pursue pre-law courses at Davidson.

The two signings helped to offset the disappointment of Parade magazine All-American Bob Kivisto’s decision to attend Kansas instead of
Davidson. Kivisto notified Driesell of his decision early in the week.

Saturday, April 27
2 p.m. Baseball
Davidson vs. High Point
Baseball Field

Monday, April 29
2 p.m. Golf
Davidson vs. William and Mary
Williamsburg, Va.

Tuesday, April 30
1:30 p.m. Baseball
Davidson vs. Furman (2)
Baseball Field

Thursday, May 2
2 p.m. Tennis
Davidson vs. Duke
Tennis Courts

Delts Take IMAC Lead As Nus Upset Sigma Chi, 4-2
By GARY SIGMON
Sports Writer

As the IMAC softball tournament enters its final week, Phi Delta Theta remains the only undefeated team, as Sigma Nu
came through with a big upset over previously unbeaten Sigma Chi. The Nus stunned the Machis with timely hitting and
a solid defense. The final score was a 4-2 upset as pitcher Tommy limited the Machi sluggers to only 5
hits. The Nus grabbed an early 2-0 lead and...never relinquished it. For the Nus, Bill Barnett, Tommy Phillips, Bob Dewell,
and Steve Hayes each had two hits. Team effort on the part of the Nus was the deciding factor. The
Machis seemed to be down for the Nu game after their walloping 32-6 victory over the Betas on Monday. It
took the Sig Eps nine innings, but they finally exploded at the plate to defeat the SAE's 13-5. The SAE's
held a 5-3 lead until the Sig Eps tied it in the top of the fifth inning. From then until
the top of the ninth neither team was able to score. In the ninth, however, the Sig Eps pounded SAE
pitcher Lindsey Davis for numerous hits and took advantage of Davis’ control problem. The SPE's scored eight runs in this
rally. The Pikas and the KA's played a game which ended climactically. Going into the last two innings the KA's
had an 8-1 lead. But the Pikas finally erupted for eight runs in these final innings, to nip the KA's
9-8. Tom Poston’s seventh inning home run brought the victory to the Pikas. Walks, errors, and timely hitting saved the
day for the Pikas. The Pi Kapps defeated the Betas 11-6 with only eight players, but defense was still their
most outstanding feature. The SAE's trounced the ATO's in a game in which Charles Brockwell and Chet Davidson were outstanding
in the field and at the plate. Lindsey Davis picked up the victory. The Delts easily disposed of the ATO's
22-5. Rocky Crosswhite was the winning pitcher as the entire Delt team gave its usual outstanding hitting performance. Ron Hunt
was outstanding defensively, while David Fearnback played a good all-around game. In Thursday's contests, the Delts overcame an early SPE
rally to win 15-11, the Betas upset the KA's, Sigma Chi rallied to edge by the Pikas, and the Pi
Kapps forfeited to the Nus.

Diamondmen Drop Two More As Poor Pitching, Hitting Halt ’Cats
By DOUG HAYNES
Sports Writer

What first appeared to be a bad season beginning has turned into a bad season for Davidson's baseball team. Dropping
a home return match to Georgia Southern and a doubleheader to East Carolina, the Wildcats brought their season record to
an embarrassing 1-19 tally. “Our pitching just hasn’t been as good as it should be and so we're not an
effective ball club,” said Coach Tom Stevens. “All our pitchers are young and haven't learned to throw the ball hard
and still keep control. But our boys aren't giving up even though we haven't been doing very well. That's a
good sign.”

Monday, the Wildcats fell to Georgia Southern in a lopsided 11-0 game. Georgia collected its eleven runs on 16 hits,
a prime example of Coach Stevens’ analysis. Johnny Riggs was the losing pitcher. Monday night, the diamondmen left for East
Carolina and were welcomed Tuesday with 8-0 and 12-4 losses. In the two games, the Pirates collected 22 hits while
holding Davidson to only nine. Clark Nickerson went five innings in the first game for the Wildcats before being replaced
by Cliff Patterson. In the second contest, Mack Reavis lasted five innings against the Pirate bombardment before being relieved by
Wade Shepherd.

Stevens said that he was disappointed with the team's hitting. “We just haven't been hitting in the clutch,” he lamented.
However, to every dark cloud there is a silver lining, even in baseball. Says Stevens, “I'm real pleased with our
defense—in the last four games, we have made very few errors and have made a big improvement since early in
the season.” Also, an early season favorite on the mound, Bob Pickens, who had been benched because of a sore
arm, will possibly resume play in a couple of games. The Wildcats’ next game is here Saturday at 2 p.m.
against High Point. Next Tuesday, Davidson will host Furman in a doubleheader starting at 1:30 p.m.

Sailors Cop Third Place In South Atlantic Meet
By JOHN MOORE
Sports Writer

The Davidson sailing team left the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association Spring Championships in Charleston, S.C., Saturday with a third
place finish in the spring standings and an opportunity to represent SAISA in the National Intercollegiate Championships at Yale on
June 19. The light morning air and a three-knot tide made the triangular course especially difficult for the Wildcats. In
the A-division, Davidson sophomore James Lee sailed well, but with a disqualification rounding a mark in the fourth race, he
could manage only a fifth place finish. B-division skipper Tom Kirtley had two seconds and a first, but a disqualification
at the start of the fourth race held him to a third place overall. Next week Kirtley will go to
Columbia, S.C., for the SAISA Singlehand Championships, the winner of which will go to the National Championships, and the rest
of the team will sail at the Lake Norman Yacht Club in an annual regatta.

Runners Fall To Furman

A strong Furman track squad, made stronger by a subsidized track program, put together talent and depth Tuesday to sweep
past the Wildcat cindermen, 99-42. Although the ‘Cats were paced by the individual performances of Rick Lyon, Kerry Keith, and
Greg Cox, the overall strength of the Paladins proved too great. Lyon continued his consistently high performance in the 100
and 220 yard dashes, winning both. He took the 100 in 9.8 and came back in the 220 with his
best performance of the year, 21.6. Furman took advantage of its depth in the distance events. The Paladins were able
to place two strong men in each event. This was witnessed by John Puckett's third place finish in the 880
yard run in spite of his best time of the year in the event. Keith took the javelin competition, while
Cox finished second in the broad jump and high hurdles. In spite of the overwhelming Paladin depth, Davidson took second
places in seven events and third place in five. The squad returns home tomorrow afternoon to meet The Citadel on
the track on which they swept the Davidson Relays last weekend. Assistant coach Sterling Martin said yesterday that he expects
the Citadel squad to be “as tough if not tougher than the Furman team.”

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6561

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 332-2414

FLYING INSTRUCTIONS
SEA PLANES or LAND PLANES
Start your flight training on beautiful Lake Norman. Modern, fully equipped aircraft for both land and water operation. Basic aviation
ground school taught by certified ground school instructor. ALSO AIRCRAFT RENTAL
Lake Norman Aviation
PERTH ROAD — MOORESVILLE, N.C.
DAY PHONE 664-1452
NIGHT PHONES 662-5601 or 662-5222
Write Post Office Box 416, Mooresville, N.C. 26115

STAMP IT! IT'S THE RAGE
REGULAR MODEL
ANY 3 LINE TEXT
The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL POCKET RUBBER STAMP. $4.00
Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax.
Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
THE MOPP CO.
P.O. Box 18623 Lenox Square
ATLANTA, GA., 30326

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
michel
375-9723
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 28202

THE WILDCAT DEN RESTAURANT
PIZZAS & FRIED CHICKEN
Open Till Midnight Monday - Saturday
