Page Six November 1, 1968

ACROSS THE TRACKS

Small pay, poor living. I’m Not No Janitor,’ He Said, ‘I’m A Man’ and a bad joke had gotten out
of hand

Fifth Of Series By ROBERT PYEATT Associate Editor

He was a very angry man. It was a cold, gray day and a few janitors and maintenance men were
still lingering behind Watts where they always gather for their lunch hour. Most of them had left because it was
about 1:15 but some were emptying trash in the garbage truck parked by the ROTC Department. He was wearing one
of those gray jackets that janitors wear with a sweater underneath it to keep out the cold. He was angry,
shouting violently at the black man standing on the side of the garbage truck down below. I heard them shouting
but didn’t comprehend what they were saying at first. It sounded loud, belligerent. “I'm not no janitor, I’m a man.”
The man on the garbage truck yelled back something about the other man’s job. He didn’t sound angry. It was
like maybe he was just kidding and he had to go through with it. But the man behind Watts was
the man. You knew how men get mad enough to fight and kill other men in arguments. You could feel
the violence. One of the other janitors smiled and said hello and laughed quietly at the whole thing. There were
a few students walking up to Watts and Little in their usual oblivious ways. But even they noticed and felt
what was happening and their talk was subdued. He kept shouting at the man on the garbage truck. Then the
garbage truck drove off and he stood there for a few minutes shaking with anger and just looking down at
the parking lot. Then he noticed the cold and went inside. You could feel the anger and pain and defeat
of a hundred years, shouting back about how he worked for a living and he didn’t have “just no Negro
job,” he was a man.

BOUND IN RED TAPE

Senate Fails By FRANKLIN ANDERSON Managing Editor

Like John Kennedy during his first two years in office, Joe Murphy is on the bad side of a conservative
coalition that entangles him — with varying degrees of success — and manages to limit the Senate's role. Of the
12 members of the Senate, five vote consistently conservative, but three of the group identify themselves as the hard-line conservatives:
senior John Passmore and sophomores Gary Cash and Ed Dobbs. Usually joining the coalition are senior Covey Carter and junior
Richard Howard. The ‘establishment’ within the Senate is liberal, and nearly always has backing from President Murphy, Vice President Peter
Hobbie, sophomore Rich Cowart and junior Dan Herd. Senior Frank Murphy, and junior C. L. Cheshire usually keep to the
middle. The effect of the conservative coalition becomes most evident in the fairly consistent conservative appointments of the Senate and
the lack of Senate action on new issues since it was inaugurated last spring. The conservative coalition capitalizes on sufficient
involvement of other senators in special projects to prevent any significant effort in the Senate to pass non-conservative legislation. The
only really successful mobilization against the conservatives was the vote to oust freshman regulations, a move which reduced the coalition
to its three hard-liners and produced a 9-3 vote. Of course, the result of pending elections is unpredictable. A majority
of the Senate will be new when the group reconvenes Tuesday night, and half of the 12 new members will
probably be freshmen. If the conservatives do manage to retain a substantial voice in the new Senate, then the Murphy
administration...

Carter (Continued From Page 1)

day. Regarding intercollegiate athletics Carter, who is on a football grant-in-aid, said that there is a vital need for subsidized
athletics at Davidson. “Most of the students here are interested in athletics and as academic as Davidson is, sports provide
an outlet accessible to all students whether as spectators or as participants,” Carter said. “Besides, without subsidized athletics, we'd be
losing many top-notch guys who make outstanding contributions to the Davidson community.” Concerning social patterns, Carter came out in support
of the present social structure including fraternities but expressed concern for the non-fraternity men who might be offered a fuller
social life by the college. Carter said he had no specific suggestions on the problem but he did say that
he thought the extended rush program had not provided an answer to the problem. On extra-campus responsibilities, church relationship and
co-education Carter said he did not know enough about the questions involved to express an opinion on each matter. When
asked if he thought he had fulfilled the promises of his platform of last spring which included a long list
of issues ranging from...

Sanford: National Government Needs ‘Young People’s Energy’

The “new politics” and the role young people can play in it were described here Tuesday by the national executive
director of Citizens for Humphrey-Muskie. Former N. C. Governor Terry Sanford, who is also a member of the Davidson Board
of Visitors, told his chapel audience that the young possess a “vital energy” which should be used in government. He
said he would like to see a young person “not long out of college” sitting with the President's cabinet as
a part of a broad effort to put youthful ideas into government. This young person, Sanford said, would be responsible
“for placing additional young people to help in top governmental offices.” “The program I propose would not only bring young
citizens to Washington but will also send them where important government activities are taking place in the 50 states and
our foreign missions.” Sanford's speech was the first of a lecture series sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon and named in
honor of former President D. Grier Martin, an SAE. The purpose of the Martin Lectures will be to bring outstanding
speakers to Davidson. Martin shared the platform with Sanford, along with President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., SAE President Mike Johnson
and SAE member Weldon Schenck. The “new politics,” Sanford said, could bring “new ideas into the solution of old problems.
The benefit to the country, I believe, is that talented young citizens would learn the problems, experience the needs, see
the deficiencies and recognize the opportunities of our working government.

Spencer (Continued From Page 1)

Spencer expressed hope that the board commissions could offer a more meaningful definition of Davidson's “Christian commitment.” He felt that
external aspects of that commitment should be de-emphasized. “Fundamental to the Christian religion is a concern for people... and the
society in which we live. This should be the major focus of Davidson's commitment.” In response to the question of
whether ROTC fit in with that commitment, Spencer said he saw no “particular conflict there... given the realistic world in
which we live.” Spencer added that in order to maintain its Christian commitment, Davidson must have a Christian faculty. “If
it isn't in the people, where is it?” he asked. He said further that non-Christians could be hired on a
temporary basis despite the requirement that faculty members be professing Christians to qualify for tenure. Spencer maintained that Davidson could
have a diversity of ideas without having a faculty of widely differing backgrounds. “For instance, I don't think you have
to have a Fascist on your faculty to understand what Hitler was about.” Spencer described the Blue Sky report as
a “good beginning,” but added that some programs were “not bold enough.” He said that the foreign study program should
be expanded. Spencer also called for a re-evaluation of the number of cuts allowed, as well as compulsory assembly. Spencer
predicted that students would be given a voice in future contracts with the food service, and that renovation of dorms
would be high on the list of priorities in improvements in the physical plant. As president of the college, Spencer
said he must “go to every possible source” for funds to finance the Blue Sky proposals, and he urged students
to help “make this a college worth helping.”

Associate Editors: JIM COOLEY CHARLES McEWEN ROBERT PYEATT BOB REID JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors: FRANKLIN ANDERSON DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors: DICK ANDERSON BIFF FINE

Sports Editor: BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors: BILL BERRY ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor: GEORGE ALLEN

ADavidsonian Staff Copy Editor: JOHN PANCAKE

Cartoonists: ZACK MOBLEY CULLUM ROGERS

Photography Editors: BILL OLSON DAVID WEEMS

Photographers: JOHN DAVIDSON BILL LYLE PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager: JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager: TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager: TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week: John McLean, Howard Ramagli, David Grissett, Greg Mitchell, Danny White, Jim Phillips, Kenny Timmons, Steve Roady, John
Carlson, Russ Merritt, Frank Dana, Charles Knighton, Chris Bickley, Norwood Poland, John Rowe, Allen Lewis, Ed Shoaf, Dan Graham, Sterling
Abernathy, Reid Sampson, Ed Dietrich, Den Parman and Steve Williams.voluntary chapel to the abolition of the fraternity housing fee to
self-scheduled exams, Carter at first said that the 13 issues were not all on his platform. Assured that they were,
he said the Senate had not had enough time to deal with such small issues while big items were on
the agenda. Carter said that he hoped he might be able to provide the “effective force” to push such things
as unlimited cuts, open dorms, better off-campus housing, and voluntary chapel once football season is over.

OPEN HOUSE
The following faculty homes will be open to students this Sunday night at 8: Minter, Churchill Dr.

Hungry d Duo Mixes Folk, City Sound In Performance
A REVIEW By JULE YOUNG

“To be successful, each group must find its own bag: We're in the midst of developing ours.” A commentator speaking
of the problems of the New Left? Hardly. Rather, he is Jim Donnery of Donnery and Rudd, featured at this
week's Hungry d. This young couple specializes in a Dylanesque style appropriately termed “urban folk.” Donnery described the style as
“a synthesis of folk music and contemporary lyrics. Instead of traditional folk themes, the lyrics are oriented to the problems
of the city.” However, Donnery added, “urban folk is not a protest-song movement.” And indeed, most of the songs used
at the d deal exclusively with romantic and lyrical themes.

Much of the urban emphasis was lost in the ebullient style of those songs containing social comment. For example, the
enthusiasm with which “Elevator Operator, Going Down” is presented overshadows its comment on the drug scene (“she goes up so
very fast”). Well-suited vocally to rambling, bouncy sounds, Donnery and Rudd complement each other on lighter melodies, periodically tossing sounds
to each other, then weaving the sounds together for a synthesis. The group demonstrated an inability to communicate real feeling
in some of their more serious songs. Billed as an answer to Bob Dylan's “All Along the Watchtower,” Donnery and
Rudd's “In the Fields of Mourning” lacked not potential but rather a contagious arrangement.

To Initiate Action
tion will probably be recorded as the one that finished up what Tom Earnhardt started — the Code of Responsibility
and the new constitution. Chances for the conservatives will be fairly decent. The Senate will double in size and then
have to reorganize itself along the committee lines outlined in the Student Government SENATE SGA President SGA Vice President bylaws,
thus creating enough internal confusion to slow things down at least until Thanksgiving. Freshmen class senators will be scared enough
of not getting re-elected — their term is only three months — that they will be unlikely to cause trouble.
And if the Senate's present lack of knowledge of its own constitution and bylaws is any omen, near chaos will
soon result.

For example, the Senate three weeks ago appointed two Independents to non-existent seats on the Social Council, and Tuesday night
rode roughshod over explicit constitutional provisions governing appointments. So, despite what might seem to be a change in the making,
little will happen for several months as the Senate flounders in its own red tape—much to the conservatives’ delight.

Senate Doubles In Size
Elections completed this week have added 12 members to the Senate — six of them freshmen — and created the
first joint regulations court in the school’s history. Whit Ayres, Jody Turner, and Steve Salyer were elected to the Senate
from the Freshman Class at large, with Salyer receiving the most votes to become class president. Other freshmen elected were
Cecil Burney, Watts; Lawrence Wilkinson, East; and Stewart Rogers, Cannon. Upperclassmen elected to the Senate by dorms were Harry Goldman,
Richardson; Floyd Strand, Belk 1st and 4th floors; Roger Millis, Belk 2nd floor; Harlan Day, Belk 3rd floor; Frank Wise,
Duke; and Chip Clark, Little. Clark's election was the closest, 19-18.

On the Regulations Court, the seniors elected Stew Brown, Scott Cutting, and John Williams. Norman Hurwitz and Stagg Newman were
chosen by the juniors, but the sophomores have a run-off today between George Wagoner and Mike Elliott. The six freshmen
on the Senate will be the largest number on the student legislature in recent years. Out of the 15 members
of the old Student Council, freshmen had one member, who had no vote first semester. This election also marks the
first time the Senate has had its maximum membership of 23.

Peace Recruiters Evicted For Union Zoning Violation
Students at a peace table were evicted from the College Union lobby Wednesday morning under threat of “strong disciplinary action”
by Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. “I am officially ordering you to leave the Union within five minutes,”
said Burts. The group left after conferring briefly among themselves. The peace group had set up its table about 10
feet from a Marine Corps recruiting table. After leaving the Union lobby, the peace group's table was set up on
the porch of the Union with the consent of Union authorities. “We feel that if the Marines are able to
recruit for war and killing, we ought to be able to recruit for peace,” said senior Marvin Sparrow, a member
of the group. “The full facilities of the Union were available to you yesterday, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow,” Burts
told the group. The dean said that Union policy permitted only one group in the Union lobby at a time.
The eviction was “a question of the legality according to the zoning laws of the Union,” said junior John Reisner,
a member of the group.

APO To Hold Field Day For 200 Local Children
Alpha Phi Omega will sponsor a field day this afternoon for some 200 children from Davidson Elementary School. About 30
student members of the national service fraternity will lead the youngsters in various games and contests and will treat them
to a weenie roast on the baseball field, according to APO President Tim Bynum. “Most of the money for the
field day comes from the Davidson Lions Club," Bynum said. APO members recently distributed 2200 copies of the Davidson College
Directory to students and faculty. The group sold over $1,000 worth of advertising in the directory, Bynum said, and profits
will be used to finance community projects later in the year. “This is the earliest we've gotten the directory out
in recent years,” Bynum said.
