(Staff Photo by McKellar)

GETTING IN THE SWING OF THINGS
Top-seeded George Berner warms up before tournament triumph.

Horton-Norton Duo Takes Tennis Lead

The Sigma Chi team of Bill Horton and Pete Norton won four matches this week to capture the winner's bracket in IMAC tennis. The Machi duo won decisively this week and will meet the winner of the losers bracket in the championship match on Wednesday.

The tournament, which is being run on a double elimination schedule, is played in three pro sets to nine points in each match. Horton and Norton defeated teams from Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, Alpha Tau Omega, and Kappa Sigma en route to their winners bracket title. They defeated the SAE team of Paul Rothert and Charlie Brockwell with very few problems on Monday and then took the Nus’ Bill Johnson and Dirk Galbraith on Tuesday. McCrea Ewart and Billy Thebaut of the ATO’s fell to the Machi pair Wednesday and the Kappa Sig team of Bill Bailey and William Brown lost in the finals of the winners bracket.

The Sigs are finding themselves somewhat shorthanded this year without the services of Hal Shaw, who teamed with Bailey last year to take the IMAC crown. Although Brown has filled the gap well, the team is not as effective as the Shaw-Bailey combination was last year. Shaw will probably return to play next week. Brown and Bailey had earlier defeated the Delt team of John Passmore and Jan Postma, the Pika team of Fred Lowrance and Frank Spence, and Gary Peklo and Doug Rhymes of the Phi Gamms.

The independents lost two heartbreakers this week, both coming in the final game of the third set. Ewart and Thebeau defeated them, and after an upset victory over the SAE's, the Indies fell again to the Nus. The Pikas played the Gamms and the ATO’s took on the Nus today in the quarterfinals of the losers bracket. The winners of those games will play Monday to determine who will face the Kappa Sigs in the losers bracket finals Tuesday.

Varsity Sport

By JOHN MOORE
Sports Writer

The faculty Athletic Committee Thursday granted status as a varsity sport to the Davidson sailing team. After two and a half years of formal competition in the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA), the team will obtain approved collegiate recognition next fall. In the past, the idea of varsity status had remained at the talking stage only, but team captain Tom Kirtley, working with the coach, French Professor Hallam Walker, drew up a formal petition to present to the faculty committee. The petition had originated as a motion in the Freshman Council, but in the last several weeks, the SGA Senate and the D Club endorsed it.

Phoenix, Jersey Squads Pick Knowles In Draft

It appears that Rodney Knowles will play professional basketball next year somewhere. The 6-9 senior from Greenville has had several offers from professional clubs and is currently trying to decide which one it will be. Knowles was drafted early this week by New Jersey of the American Basketball Association, and then he was chosen in the sixth round of the NBA draft by the newly formed Phoenix club. Knowles is traveling to New Jersey this week to discuss contract negotiations, but has other offers to consider besides the American clubs. Several European teams have made offers to Knowles, including Antwerp and two Italian clubs. Knowles indicated that he would have some decision to make soon.

Dick Snyder, who was picked up by the Arizona club in the NBA's expansion draft this week, is also a close friend of Knowles. The New Jersey club also picked up Eddie Biedenbach, the All-American guard from North Carolina State and a close friend of Knowles.

The sailing team has been the only team on campus without varsity status, but with faculty approval, all teams are now represented. In its two and a half years in SAISA, the sailors have been runners-up in the fall competition several times and have been invited to compete in two intersectional regattas. In 1967, the team had a full schedule of 14 meets and was runner-up in the fall championship. Bob Murphy, ‘67, served as president of SAISA last year, and this year sophomore James Lee is vice-president and John Moore is on the Executive Committee. Besides Davidson, Clemson, Duke, Old Dominion, College of Charleston, The Citadel, William and Mary, and the University of South Carolina are members of SAISA.

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop

The Davidsonian
May 10, 1968
Page Five

Spring Wildcats Shine, Racketmen Edge Past GW, Citadel

By DAVID BRANCH
Sports Writer

Davidson's defending Southern Conference tennis team put up a good defense. The ‘Cat fuzzballers returned home from Lexington, Va., this week with their fourth consecutive conference title. This week's tournament was hotly contested, with the Wildcats edging The Citadel and George Washington, the second place finishers, by a single point, 17-15. Davidson Coach Harry Fogleman was extremely pleased with the team’s showing in Lexington, especially in light of the tough competition they faced.

“Tennis in the Southern Conference has improved 100 percent in the last two years,” he said. “When I first came to Davidson, George Washington and The Citadel were the only good teams in the conference,” he added. “This year there were five very good teams at the tournament beating each other's brains out.”

George Berner defeated Tee Hooper of The Citadel for the conference championship in the number one singles competition in what Fogleman described as “one of the best college matches I have ever seen.” Team captain Sam Hatcher received a poor draw in the second division singles pairings and lost in the semifinals to Randy Heffron of The Citadel, who went on to capture the division title. Dan Hearon took second place in the number three division, going all the way to the finals before losing to

Committee Grants Sailors Recognition

The faculty Athletic Committee, headed by Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, consists of mathematics professor Richard R.Bernard, physics professor Locke White, assistant physics professor Allen A. Wolf, athletic director Tom Scott and Walker. Our Bermudas and Knit Shirts are for you. Good selection for the pace-setting traditionalist. Ray Jones of George Washington. Woody Faulk wasn't even seeded in the fourth division singles, but, playing what Fogleman described as “his best tennis of the year,” he captured the division title, carding an impressive 6-2, 6-1 win in the finals. James Cantrell was also impressive for the Wildcats. Cantrell lived up to his number one seeding in the fifth division, winning every match in straight sets to take the singles title. David Jennings won his first match in the number six singles but lost to the eventual divisional champ in the semifinals. The Wildcats had trouble in the doubles competition, failing to win any of the three divisional titles although seeded first in two of the divisions. The final match of the tournament, the number three doubles match between GW and The Citadel, proved to be the decisive one of the entire tournament. George Washington won it to tie for second place. The match would have given The Citadel a tie with the Wildcats if they had won, but the Colonial team won the exciting match in three sets, 2-6, 13-11, 12-10.

GEORGE LEIGHT
tourney runner-up

EXHIBITION TOMORROW
Football Head Coach Homer Smith will unveil the 1968 edition of Wildcat football tomorrow afternoon in an intra-squad game on Richardson Field. The annual game will climax the three weeks of practice sessions which the team has undergone. After the game, only two practice sessions remain. The game will present a number of rising sophomores in their first appearance as varsity players. Only eight rising seniors have places on this spring’s roster. Introduction of players will begin at 1:30 p.m. with the game following immediately.

Lyon, Cox Score In Carolina Meet
The Wildcat track team made a fine showing with limited forces in the State Track Meet at Durham last Saturday. Only three men represented the ‘Cats against a strong field, but Rick Lyon and Greg Cox placed in their events. Lyon grabbed fourth in the 100-yard dash, with a time of 9.9, while Cox was fifth in the broad jump. Lyon also ran a 21.7 trial in the 220-yard dash, one of his best performances of the year, but was unable to reach the finals against the outstanding competition. Coach Heath Whittle said that he was well pleased with both Lyon's and Cox's places considering the size of the meet. Davidson's three points were good enough for a tie for eighth place out of the ten participating teams. The meet included all the larger schools in the state: Duke, North Carolina State, Wake Forest, East Carolina, North Carolina College, North Carolina A&T, Shaw, and St. Augustine's, as well as Davidson. The cindermen’s final outing of the year will be the Southern Conference Track Meet at Fort Eustis, Va., today and tomorrow.

Capture Two SC Titles
Golfers’ Charge Bypasses ECU
With a solid, come-from-behind effort, the Davidson golf team rallied Wednesday to secure its third consecutive Southern Conference championship. The linkmen scrambled from eight strokes behind to grab the trophy at the tournament, held Tuesday and Wednesday at the Dunes Golf and Beach Club, in Myrtle Beach. Davidson, whose top four players totaled 633 for 36 holes, had been in fourth place after completion of Tuesday's first round. Senior George Leight led the Wildcat charge in the final round as he shot a two-over-par 74 for a two-round total of 154. His score was good enough to gain second place individually. Individual honors for the tournament went to The Citadel's David Joseberry, who fired a 151 for the two days, with rounds of 76-75. The score is based on the top four golfers from each school. Davidson sent six men and counted the scores of Leight, John Giles, Cary Hite, and Tucker Dalton. Hite finished two strokes behind Leight, 80-76, 156. Giles finished with an 83-77, 160, while Dalton finished 83-80, 163. All three played the best golf they have played all year over the beach course. The tourney was nothing but disappointment for Davidson's number one player, Mike Spann. He led Davidson with a 78 at the end of the first round but found numerous problems on the front nine during the second round and could manage but an 86 for the round. Spann was individual medalist in last year’s tournament. It was the sixth conference championship for Davidson, the fifth under Coach Tom Scott. Scott said that he was “well pleased with the whole tournament.”

Delts Head All-IMAC Star Team
It's only natural that the best teams should have the best players, and IMAC softball has proven to be no exception. In balloting among participating teams and players this week, IMAC champion Phi Delta Theta and runners-up Sigma Chi placed all but one man on this year’s softball all-star team. The squad, which was formed by ten men due to a tie in balloting for catcher, consisted of five Delts, four Machis, and one Pika. The lone exception was Bob Pickens, who was named to the outfield of the all-star squad. The Delts placed Dave Moser at second base, Ron Hunt at shortstop, Dave Fearnbach at third base, and fast-baller Kit Thompson as pitcher. The Delts’ Dick Stoops shared catching honors with John Allen of Sigma Chi. In addition to Allen, the Machis placed Jerry Kroll and Fox DeMoisey in the outfield and Jim Long at first base.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Think Of The Many Davidson Men Who Have Gone On Before You To Become
Convicts
Horse Thieves
Pig Farmers
Plumbers
Perverts
Swindlers
And Drunken Bums.
Keep Up With Your Friends. Read THE DAVIDSONIAN

Name
Address
City
State
ZIP

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
I enclose $6.00 — New
Bill me at $6.50 — Renewal
Mail to: Circulation Mgr.
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036

Monday—Friday
The Hub
Our 56th Year — Mooresville