Page Six February 23, 1968

REDEFINITION
The Davidsonian

McGavock Advises Richardson Fellows

Dr. William G. McGavock, professor of mathematics, has been appointed faculty adviser to the Richardson Fellows program, which has come under severe criticism recently.

The program, which is designed to try to select potential leaders from each Freshman Class and expose them to educational opportunities outside the academic sphere, has been criticized as lacking direction and being too vague in purpose.

“This entire program is admittedly an experiment. So for those who are satisfied to be critical, there is plenty to criticize,” McGavock said.

McGavock added that the selection process had been particularly severely criticized and admitted that it needed review and probably major changes.

McGavock also redefined the purpose of the Richardson Fellows. “The Richardson Fellows program, as I see it, is an exploration of the ways and means that may be developed to discover in young men characteristics generally associated with leadership and to bring these men to grips with the problems and challenges of leadership,” McGavock said in a prepared statement.

McGavock said that to improve the program he planned to revise the selection process in an effort to make it more representative, to emphasize the summer internship program, to invite important persons to discuss issues with the Fellows and the student body, and to stress group planning about a central theme.

Sunday Night Open House

The following homes will be open this Sunday at 8:
Bondurant Pinkerton Hwy. 73 East
Grey Rd. Cole Polley Crescent Dr.
Ney Circle Frey Greenway St.

Union Funds Set To Aid Creativity

Creativity, imaginativeness, responsibility for projects, and self-expression—at the College Union? The Union has proposed assigning $2,500 of its current program budget for a special activities foundation. These funds will be made available to the imaginative student or group of students to promote ideas and programs.

The Union administration proposes that individual and group initiative is enhanced when students have direct responsibility for projects they originate. Therefore, the foundation is to be administered by a board of directors, chosen from certain student leaders and from selected faculty members. Already, John G. Holland, assistant professor of English, and Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development, have agreed to serve on the board which will continue planning in its first meeting to be held shortly.

HIGHWAY SIGNS TO APPEAR—FINALLY

The Davidson exit from Highway 21-Interstate 77, a perennial source of puzzlement for campus visitors, will be marked by March 1 with appropriate signs, a spokesman of the N.C. Highway Commission promised this week. The unmarked exit’s latest victims were “Spanky and Our Gang,” who arrived late for their Midwinters concert. (Staff Photo by Weems).

Elections (Continued From Page One)

Other elective offices include SGA vice-president, the four officers of the YMCA, defense adviser, freshman adviser, class senators, and cheerleaders.

Articles I, II, and IV of the bylaws were approved by the council. Article I states the oath of office to be administered to each member of the student government and to the chief officer of each chartered organization by the chairman of the Court of Appeals. Article II defines the standing rules of the Senate and the Executive Committee. Adoption, suspension, or amendment of the rules requires a two-thirds vote of those present and voting.

Elections and election procedures are the subject of Article IV. Several parts of this article were discussed and questioned by council members. Bates’ committee was requested to revise one section dealing with bloc voting or vote swapping along organizational lines. The council felt proposed penalties for such action were too severe.

Council Passes Safety Proposal

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

President Tom Earnhardt proposed to the Student Council Monday the formation of a Campus Safety Committee to discuss and act upon various safety problems encountered recently on the campus. The council passed the proposal unanimously but apathetically. Earnhardt said he thought the committee should consist of three students, one faculty member, Grover Meetze, head of the physical plant, and one person from the maintenance department.

The idea arose from various problems which the council has discussed recently.

Sunday Afternoon Fire Destroys Area Residence Of Family Of 6

By PAUL SCHNEIDER
Staff Writer

Fire destroyed the Davidson home of James Donaldson Jr. about 2:30 last Sunday afternoon. The frame house, located at Depot and Watson streets, was a complete loss, according to Clyde Griffin, Davidson fireman. Donaldson is the son of James Donaldson Sr., janitor at the college infirmary.

“Fire was coming out of all the windows” when the company arrived, according to Griffin.

Student Wages Hiked

In compliance with the Federal Minimum Wage Law increase in minimum wage, the college has hiked its wage rates for student employees. Beginning this month the college will increase payment to $1.15 per hour for regular jobs, $1.40 per hour for federal work-study jobs, and $1.60 per hour for all jobs involving interstate commerce. The change represents a 15-cent pay raise in all but interstate commerce-involved jobs, for which payment was raised 20 cents.

According to Robert J. Stephenson, assistant college business manager, the minimum wage will increase 15 cents per year over the next five years. The college will continue to raise student payment in accordance with this regulation.

Admissions and Financial Aid Director H. Edmunds White notified all departments employing student help of the change in a letter this week.week. The letter made note of the fact that the business office will not increase each department’s budget to meet the new wage requirement. White added, however, that with slight adjustments budgets could still be met. White also asked that as many students as possible should be relieved of jobs involving interstate commerce, which include producing, ordering, or handling of anything (including mail and telephone calls) that come in or go out of state.

GET YOUR EVENING SNACK at the NEW WILDCAT DEN!

Sports Editor: DON SEWELL
Assistant Sports Editor: ROCKY CROSSWHITE
News Editor: BOB DUNHAM
Assistant Business Manager: MIKE JOHNSON
Advertising Manager: JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: John Williams, Paul Schneider, Steve Callender, Dick Anderson, Rob Krehbiel, Bill Warren, George Allen, Ed Shoaf, Allen Lewis, Don Hoyt, Edward Hay, Lewis Lavine, Biff Fine, Craig Culp, Danny Coltrane, Jim Cooley, Bill Youkey, Hugh Marr, David Sweatt, David Cook, and Gary Fagg.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

We specialize in PIZZAS, DELICATESSEN FOOD, and FRIED CHICKEN, with our special APPLE CIDER to wash it down. All of this in the restful atmosphere of the Den!! For those who are unable to come over, we will have dorm delivery, as long as your order is in BEFORE 11 p.m. (There will be only one delivery per night, at first). For dorm delivery, there will be a $0.25 service charge.

“SEE YOU AT THE DEN”

to the Davidson department's report. The Donaldsons have four children, a boy 17, a girl 15, a boy 5, and a girl 2. The youngest two were in the house when the fire began. One of the boys led his little sister by the hand from the house. Dr. Raymond Martin, assistant professor of philosophy, has circulated a request to faculty and administration for aid for the family. Martin said that there had been some limited response to his request for food and clothing. He said there was a special need for clothing and shoes.

After the fire had been extinguished, George Hampton, Davidson fire chief, and Sigsby Tadlock, county fire marshal, inspected the ruins. Tadlock said that, “We feel sure that there was a petroleum product scattered over the center back room near a heater. It appears to have been the petroleum product that was the accelerant.” The fire marshal stated that this conclusion was “based on the pattern of the fire. It seemed to be a surface ignition rather than a deep burning fire.” “The initial accelerant quickly took hold of the other combustibles,” said Tadlock.

Summer School Cut To 6 Weeks

Summer school will run six weeks instead of the usual nine, Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston said Wednesday. Sessions will run five days a week from June 12 to July 2 and July 8 to July 27. Exams will be the final day of each session. Science courses, however, will either take a week longer or be taught six days a week, Johnston said, in order to account for labs. Details of course offerings are not yet available, according to Johnston, because plans are not complete on summer research and grants for faculty members.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 332-2414

NATIONAL TOUR BROADWAY CAST STARRING JACKIE WARNER
STOP THE WORLD I WANT TO GET OFF
A New-Style Musical
Book, Music and Lyrics by LESLIE BRICUSSE and ANTHONY NEWLEY
Sponsored by College Union
Spencer Love Auditorium
Tomorrow, Saturday, Feb. 24, 3:00 p.m.
Tickets — Students, Faculty and Staff $2.00
General Public $2.50
Reservations at Union Desk 892-8021 Ext. 343

Final decisions have not been made on which faculty members will be involved in the summer courses which the college sponsors for North Carolina high school teachers, and this has impeded plans.

BLOW YOURSELF UP POSTER SIZE
2 ft. x 3 ft.—only $4.95 ppd.
Get your own BLOW-UP Photo Poster. Send any black and white or color photo from wallet size to 8” x 10” or any negative from 2¼” x 2¼” to 4” x 5”. We will send you a 2 ft. x 3 ft. BLOW-UP.
3 ft. x 4 ft.—only $7.95 ppd.
Send any black and white or color photo from 4” x 5” to 8” x 10” or any negative from 2¼” x 3¼” or 4” x 5”. We will send you a jumbo 3 ft. x 4 ft. BLOW-UP. Any printed document can similarly be made into giant size posters—diplomas, drawings, programs, pop-art, etc. Original returned undamaged. Poster is shipped rolled in a sturdy self-store tube. Send check or money order (no C.O.D.) to:
IVY ENTERPRISES, INC.
431—70th Street (Dept. 3)
Guttenberg, N.J. 07093

They include the fire in Little Dormitory, the slow clearance of the slick walks during the January snow, and the inadequate lighting which plagues parts of the campus at night. The Little fire in particular has sparked comment. The fire, which occurred in a room on the third floor earlier this month, caused some $3,000 in damages. Its occupants have moved to another dormitory. The committee would work with maintenance personnel in providing solutions to the problems. Election of committee members was postponed until a later date.

The council also raised objections to the foundation proposed by the union for financing student projects and postponed election of a member to its board of trustees until next Monday. Fletcher Hartsell mentioned the possibility of bringing former Presidential candidate Barry Goldwater to Davidson in conjunction with the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The council recommended further investigation before making a decision.

The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL POCKET RUBBER STAMP. 1½” x 2”. Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
THE MOPP CO.
P.O. Box 18623
Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021