**The Davidsonian**

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 1968

LESESNE URGES ‘NEW BLOOD’ (See Page Two)

REPORT EXAMINES ROTC (See Page Three)

VOL. LVI

WILL DRINKING RULE CHANGE?

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Davidson Campus Is Dry, With A Large Damp Spot

First in A Series

By BOB REID
Associate Editor

Davidson students drink. Every day. And it's not "just up the road." More likely, it's on campus. In rooms, in fraternity houses, in the Union. In contrast, the Faculty Code of Student Conduct strictly forbids drinking on campus and in the town of Davidson. It also provides strict penalties for its violation.

“Davidson College is opposed to the use of alcoholic beverages by students,” according to Section Five of the gentlemanly conduct clause. “A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of violating this regulation.”

Since the student Honor Code prohibition against drinking was voted out by the student body in 1966, the faculty rule has not been enforced with diligence or uniformity. Soon after the student rule was abolished, several students, including the son of an influential trustee, were charged with violating the faculty rule by campus security guards. The students were campused, a mild sentence compared to the earlier policy of suspension. Since then several students have been campused for violating the rule. But in most cases, the security officers, who enforce the faculty rules, apparently do not view enforcement of the rule as one of their primary duties.

Most students feel that it is a good thing they don’t. In the words of one, “they'd have to kick out three-fourths of the school if the drinking rule were enforced.”

Although few students pitch wild drunks in the dorms, many do drink, either in their rooms or in fraternity houses. Many wonder why the college authorities do not accept this fact and abolish the faculty rule, too.

“Everybody knows we drink,” said one student as he sat in a room decorated with empty liquor bottles. “The faculty is being foolish if they believe there will be a rash of wild, on-campus drinking if their rule is abolished.”

“People that want to drink do it now anyways. I don't think many more people would start drinking on campus if the rule were gone.”

Student opinion seems to favor modification of the campus rule, considering that a number of candidates in the recent student body election included such a plank in their platforms. Suggestions range from a completely wet campus to allowing restricted drinking on dance weekends.

For weeks now, the student body has been waiting for the Committee on Rules and Punishments, which has been reviewing campus regulations, to make public its suggestions. Most assume that CRAP will present a plan for modifying the faculty rule. In the meantime, drinking continues.

“The drinking rule is probably on its last legs,” observed one student. “With so much else happening in the world, I can’t imagine a school like this one worrying so much over that silly rule.”

Workman Challenges Students On Tokenism

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Managing Editor

Psychology professor W. G. Workman has offered to match $2400 raised by students with $100 for a scholarship for a Negro student if the students will raise the money. He also said that he felt “confident that 10 or 12 others (faculty members) would be willing to do the same thing.”

Reacting to an editorial in the March 21 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, he challenged students to prove the seriousness of their criticisms by supplying the money. The editorial accused the college of “evading the responsibility it has to the nation and to the South to educate and develop responsible Negro leadership.”

WORKMAN challenges students' seriousness

Workman, chairman of the faculty fraternity committee, presented his proposals to two psychology classes the morning after the paper printed the editorial.

Students Aim Boycott At Local Barber Shop

Policy Termed ‘Unjust, Unfair’

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

Picketing continued today as a student boycott of Ralph Johnson's barber shop reached its fourth day in what Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson called the first student protest march here in 50 years. The boycott, which was organized by a 13-man student group led by seniors Nat Heyward and Bobby Lane, is aimed at

Richardson Program Gains Nine Freshman Members

ENGSTROM HIGGINS

SMITH SCHENK

TRUSSELL

The Richardson Fellows Program has announced the selection of nine freshmen to join the program. The nine were selected after a two-day retreat in Montreat, March 28 to March 31. Those selected are: Gary Cash, Oxford, N. C.; Richard Cowart, Radnor, Pa.; Gene Early, Memphis, Tenn.; Harrison Higgins, Richmond, Va.; Rob Hoy, Westbrook, Me.; Weldon Schenck, Greensboro, N. C.; Joe Smith, Dunbar, W. Va.; and Jimmy Trussell, Columbus, Ga.

The final selection was made from a group of 24 freshmen, chosen from a group of 80 freshmen who had responded to an invitation to the entire class to apply for the program. The 24 finalists went through a series of intensive interviews, group situations, and contacts with the members of the selection committee.

Boyte Says Davidsonian Failed To Communicate

By BOB TRAVERS
Associate Editor

“Lousy” was Sam Boyte’s description of the year he spent as editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. “Because of the competence of the staff, the paper was basically sound, but it didn't communicate with the students,” he said. “It wasn't an important influence on the campus.”

He termed the campus newspaper technically “attractive” and called it “a very necessary thing,” but, he said, a paper should “report the news and raise a little hell—especially in a place which is as cloistered as Davidson.”There has to be something or someone around to stir the place up.” Although disappointed with the paper during his tenure as editor, Boyte said he didn't think it was entirely the newspaper's fault. “One of the most useful things we could have done would have been to be the organ for students’ demands to be made public,” he explained. “Students should be aware that a railing wall exists in THE DAVIDSONIAN.” Boyte said he has been especially disappointed that students will complain in private about college policies, but they won't go out on a limb to change things. “One thing anyone who gets involved in anything here learns to develop is a real attitude of impatience with these kinds of people," he said. “It can make you awfully bitter about this place.”

“I think what this campus needs is a lunatic, activist element," Boyte continued. He said he thinks one thing necessary to correct the situation is for the college to get a more diversified student body. The Richardson Fellows Program at Davidson is financed by the Richardson Foundation to seek out students from each freshman class with well-developed leadership capacity or a potential for leadership. Eight to twelve men are chosen from each class. The Fellows are given opportunities to develop their leadership capacity through such things as contacts with recognized leaders in various fields and summer intern programs. The selection committee consisted of businessmen, Davidson faculty, representatives of the Richardson Foundation, Mike Mooty, student director of the program, and Dr. William McGavock, faculty director.

Presently, the Fellows are studying facets of North Carolina such as its history, ethnic groups, industry, and education. In an alleged policy of racial discrimination practiced by Johnson, a Negro, “It is Mr. Johnson's policy to cut the hair of only those Negroes who are his clientele here in Davidson,” the student group said in a flier distributed in front of the barber shop and in the local eateries and fraternity houses. “We feel that the time for this kind of thing to come to an end. We feel it is unfair, unjust, and inexcusable.” The student group pledged to continue its campaign until Johnson gave in. Johnson cited community pressure as the reason for his policy. “I have to operate my business according to what my customers want,” he said. He also declined comment today on a report that he had decided to close his barber shop to Negro students. In a written statement, Negro student Leslie Brown said Johnson told him this afternoon that “his place of business is no longer open to the Black students of this college.”

The picketing began Tuesday when Johnson refused service to two Negroes who live in the local community but was interrupted shortly afterwards by a town policeman because the students did not have a parade permit. Picketing resumed Wednesday morning when the group (See BOYCOTT, Page Six).

(Staff Photo by Weems) “ACTUALLY, IT WAS LOUSY.” Former Editor Sam Boyte reminisces on the paper.

(Photo by George Robinson) DEMONSTRATIONS CONTINUE Peter Hobbie carries a placard as Johnson and Dean Burts observe.

Faculty Supports Students In Boycotting Barber Shop

A random sampling of faculty members revealed considerable support of the student boycott of Johnson's Barber Shop which began Tuesday. Two professors marched in the picket line Friday. Students said “three or four” professors had crossed the picket line and gotten haircuts. Dr. J. O. Embry, professor of French, expressed some doubt about the method the students are using to integrate the barber shop — the boycott. “I think it's a very odd situation,” he said. “I don't think there ought to be segregation, but as to forcing Negro barbers to cut Negroes' hair... it doesn't seem to be a case of racism. I don't know whether that (the boycott) is the answer or not.”

“It will be interesting to see how the students support the boycott,” said Dr. R. D. Kaylor, assistant professor of Bible and religion. “I'm very much in sympathy with it.” Dr. R. C. Cole, professor of English, expressed his approval of the effort. “I think it's a good project,” he commented. “I would hope that it would be successful.” Dr. D. D. Rhodes, professor of Bible and religion, stated, “I think that in the town of Davidson we would be better off with integrated barber shops.”

Letters Back Boycott

Two letters—one signed by 15 student leaders and the other by 12 Richardson Scholars—were being circulated on campus today in support of the boycott of Ralph Johnson's barber shop. The student leaders' letter was signed by B. A. Aiken, Mike Bates, Sam Darby, Tom Earnhardt, Peter Hobbie, Robbie Hooker, Ron Hunt, Bobby King, Mike Maloy, Mike Mooty, Joe Murphy, Buddy Newsom, Tom Pedicord, Kirk Reed, and Tom Youngdale.