BENCH ROCKY CROSSWHITE SC Tournament

Well, it’s tournament time again for Davidson and the Southern Conference. You can almost hear all the longtime Davidson basketball
followers saying, “Here we go again. We'll probably blow it in the first game this year.” It appears they fear
the annual tournament like the people of the medieval ages feared the black plague. Then again, the two are similar
in certain ways. They are a battle for life, or so it seems. For three days or fewer, depending upon
how long the teams win without losing, eight SC teams play the hardest and best basketball they can. They eliminate
each other with no quarter given or asked for. It's kind of like a demolition derby you might see on
television’s “Wide World of Sports” with the last car moving being the winner.

In the past, except for one time, the 1965-66 season, Davidson has been one of the seven teams that ran
out of gas, so to speak. The renowned teams that the Hetzel crew played on never won the title. The
bad guys were VMI in '63-’64, and West Virginia in ’64-’65. Last year we played for and won second place
as was evident by the bad beating we received in the tournament final. This year should be different. “You guys
win the next eight games and you'll be national champs.” Lefty told us this before Monday's “volunteer” (those who thought
they needed to work out were supposed to) practice. Signs all around our locker room echoed the same thing: “The
team that Hustles, For Just Three Days, Wins A Chance At The National Crown,” and, “Now Try This One: The
NCAA Championship!” are examples of the lyrics which stare at us as we dress for practice. “It will take desire,
concentration, guts, and poise to win,” Lefty left us with these words on Monday.

We were greeted before practice on Tuesday in the locker room with the unmistakable sounds of the song “Sweet Thing.”
Lefty had a record player put in the dressing room which was playing certain choice songs. “Sweet Thing,” if nothing
else, got us dressed in a hurry and up on the floor. Once on the court we heard the stirring
words of the song, “Step to the Rear.” The starters began practicing feverishly to drown out the sound with bouncing
basketballs while the skins started looking for a line to stand in. Seriously, after this “music” was turned off, everyone
practiced in earnest and everything became business.

On Wednesday we worked out in the Charlotte Coliseum and then on Thursday the “fun” started. Seeded first, due to
our regular season record, we faced William & Mary in our first game at 7:00. You know, William & Mary,
the team picked to finish third and ended up eighth. Still, they have the conference’s leading scorer Bob Sherwood. It’s
quite humorous reading newspaper accounts of interviews with various SC coaches whose teams are in the tournament. VMI’s coach Gary
McPherson said little of his team’s chance to win the tournament and Bucky Waters said the Mountaineers will need a
“super-human” effort to win. Everyone is trying to play the role of David who surprised Goliath. It’s funny seeing all
the “underdogs” running around looking for a “favorite” to surprise and never finding one, because everyone is acting like they're
“underdogs.”

As for Davidson and the tournament, we have something to prove, more to ourselves, than anyone else. That is, that
we are better than some of the teams that beat us earlier in the season. We remember vividly the West
Virginia fiasco, the Duke defeat, and the Vanderbilt let-downs. The only way we get a chance at the National Tournament
is to win the SC tournament. Also on the material side, if we win the tournament this year besides receiving
a trophy, we get a watch. We could add this to our Charlotte Invitational and Sugar Bowl Classic watches and
start a collection. But to close on a serious note, unless one of the numerous “underdogs” finds us and surprises
us, we should be playing St. Johns, March 9, in the University of Maryland's Cole Field House for the chance
to go to the Eastern Regionals. I always wondered what the benches looked like in the big time. Maybe they're
softer, but I doubt it. (Staff Photo by Weems)

IN THE CLEAR Kroll leads attack against Tulane.

Cagers Hold Off Tulane In Sluggish Final Game

By DAVID BRANCH Sports Writer

Tulane’s Green Wave fell to Davidson 76-68 Saturday night at the Charlotte Coliseum, as the ‘Cats closed out their regular
season basketball schedule. The win left the Wildcats with a 19-4 season mark. The ‘Cats played somewhat uninspired basketball for
most of the first half but came on strong with five minutes left in the first period, extending their lead
to 19 points early in the second half. Then they coasted home for the last five minutes for the win.
“Tulane has a good ball club,” Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell commented. “They hustle and shoot real well.” I thought
we played well once we got the lead, although I wouldn’t say we were especially inspired.”

The ‘Cats seemed to have trouble with Tulane’s 2-3 zone defense in the first half. In the zone the Green
Wave was able to block Davidson's passing lanes fairly effectively during the first period. After half-time adjustments, the Wildcats’ offensive
machine functioned more smoothly. Jerry Kroll, hitting well from 15 to 20 feet out, connected on 10 of 17 field
goals and two of four attempts.

Frosh Close Out Hot Year With Kings College Rout

By DOUG HAYNES Sports Writer

Davidson's freshman basketball season came to a close last Saturday with a 110-83 romp over King’s College. This win gave
the Wildkittens a 12-3 record, second only in Davidson history to last year’s 15-0. To freshman head coach Jerry Conboy,
this year’s successful season came as a big and pleasant surprise. “This team did beyond my fondest hopes. We played
some real tough competition, but we worked hard and made a lot of progress,” he said. Conboy thought that the
Duke games, the two Richmond games, and the Wake Forest games were the ‘Kittens’ toughest competition. He also considered, without
hesitation, that the first Duke game was the highlight of the season. In that game, the Kittens overcame a 23-point
Blue Imp lead to win 105-104 in the closing seconds. Overall, the freshmen played six Atlantic Coast Conference games and
finished 3-3 with this tougher competition.

Giving credit to specific players for this year’s success, Conboy named seven boys: Steve Kirley, Ricky Snipes, Duncan Postma, Billy
Pierce, Ron Stelzer, Gene Early and Mark Affeldt. “Of course, we couldn't have done it without Kirley or Snipes, but
the same thing can be said for the other boys.” Kirley was the big man for the ‘Kittens, averaging 24.9
points a game and 12.6 rebounds. Snipes was second with a 16.9 point average. Conboy felt that several of the
boys have a lot to contribute to the varsity team. Conboy is quite optimistic in pointing out several prospects for
next year's team. He pointed out that as the high school seasons were ending, more and more prospects will be
coming on campus to look at Davidson.

Where's the best place in town to eat?

THE WILDCAT DEN

We specialize in: PizzaDelicatessen Sandwiches
BIG Hamburgers
“Specials” different each day
Cheese Cake
Carry-out Orders
Bulk Quantities
Quick, efficient service
In a hurry? Call ahead so we can have your dinner waiting when you arrive.
See you at THE WILDCAT DEN!

from the foul line for a 22-point total, high for both teams. Dave Moser and Wayne Huckel also scored in
double figures, with 16 and 13 points, respectively. Rod Knowles came through with a clutch performance for the ‘Cats. His
rebounding late in the first half led a tally which gave Davidson a 38-34 half-time edge. He came on strong
in the last two minutes when the Green Wave had cut Davidson's lead to eight points and appeared to be
gaining momentum. With 1:55 left on the scoreboard clock, Knowles connected on three quick baskets to put the game out
of reach.

The Davidsonian
March 1, 1968
Page Five

Cats Kill Indians 107-68, Challenge Furman Tonight
By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

Big 6'9" senior Rodney Knowles came off the bench to lead the Davidson Wildcats to a 107-68 romp over the
hapless William and Mary Indians Thursday in the Southern Conference Tournament first round at the Charlotte Coliseum. This makes the
Cats’ record this year 20-4, the fourth time in five years they have won 20 or more games. In the
semifinals tonight, Davidson meets Furman, 62-52 victor over VMI. The winner plays the victor of the West Virginia-Richmond game in
the finals Saturday night.

Though never having the lead, the Indians stayed close at first. With 8:46 left in the half, Indian Bob Sherwood’s
two foul shots cut the Cat margin to 22-17. From then on, it was all Davidson. The Cats poured in
23 points to the Indian's 8, fashioning a 45-23 lead at the half. The Cats added to the onslaught by
scoring 17 more points in the second half before William and Mary could muster a point. At one time Davidson's
lead was 80-33. The reserves finished the game led by seniors Bob Pickens and Tom Youngdale, scoring 11 and 9
respectively.

Though on the bench for the first 10:37 of the game, Knowles gave the biggest spark to the Cats. He
led Davidson scoring with 29 points, collected 7 rebounds, and blocked 6 shots. He was ably supported by Doug Cook,
who had 15 points and 7 rebounds, and Wayne Huckel, who pumped in 14 and led the Cat rebounding with
8. Mike Maloy also hit 10 points and got 7 rebounds. Part of the limelight, however, was taken by “skin”
Rocky Crosswhite. First, the Rockville, Md. junior assembled his lean 6'9" frame at the foul line and calmly dropped in
the 99th and 100th points for the Cats. He capped his performance by tapping in a free throw with 3
seconds left.

“I feel that we've had a real fine regular season. Now we've got to have a good play-off. We have
good balance and good morale and we're in good shape physically,” Driesell said. Commenting on Davidson's outlook for the tournament,
Driesell added: “We're not looking ahead to West Virginia or anyone else. We're playing them one at a time. But
I do feel we should be ranked nationally, and I hope the tournament will bear this out.”

Trackmen Lose Inside; Prep For Outdoor Slate

The University of North Carolina won the Big Seven indoor track meet last Saturday in Raleigh. Davidson's cindermen finished seventh
in the meet and scored only a single point. Assistant coach Sterling Martin said that he and coach Heath Whittle
were pleased with the team's progress in the early season. The Wildcats’ only point came on Greg Cox’s fourth-place in
the broad jump. Other Wildcat tracksters who did well but did not place were freshman Rick Lyon and sophomore Whit
Morrow in the 60-yard dash. Both these boys made it to the semifinals but were eliminated there. Also showing well
for the ‘Cats was freshman David Shepler in the 600-yard run. Assistant Coach Sterling Martin called his performance “a pleasant
surprise.”

Other participants for the ‘Cats were freshman Tom Rogers in the broad jump, John Puckett in the 1000-yard run, captain
Jim McLaughlin in the mile, Frank Bass in the high jump, and James Puckett in the 600. Although the showing
was not impressive point-wise, Martin said that the team was about where it should be at this time of the
season since this meet was the first of the year.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6581
Our 56th Year
Good Luck, CATS!

Clothing for the Pace-Setting Traditionalist
John Neck & Son
Mitchell Mack, Class of '42

Catfish Drop Close Meets To Finish Regular Season

Coach Tom Stevens’ ‘Catfish dropped their last three meets of the regular season, all by close scores. Last weekend the
Tankmen lost to VMI, 59-45. Then William & Mary edged the swimmers 57-47. Tuesday the ‘Catfish lost their last home
match of the year to the Duke Tankmen, 63-41. The VMI meet was decided by the Keydet victory in the
last event, the 400-yard freestyle relay. In that match, Jack Steele set a school record in the 100-yard freestyle event.

“We didn’t swim as well as I had hoped we would,” Stevens said after the VMI loss. “We didn’t get
some points that I expected we would." Against William & Mary, the match was decided in the final five events.
In that meet, the 400-yard medley relay team set a school record but lost the race. Bill Woodson broke Eddie
Beach's 1000-yard freestyle record in that match. George Steet broke the school record in the 500-yard freestyle. Stevens was more
pleased with the Catfish performance against William & Mary, a stronger team than VMI.

Then Wednesday, Duke handed the Davidson team another close defeat. In doing so, the Blue Devils set pool records in
the 400-yard medley relay, the 1000-yard freestyle, and the 200-yard backstroke. In the closest race of the day, Eddie Bartle,
Mac Davis, Steele, and Woodson set a new school record in the 400-yard freestyle relay but lost to Duke by
one-tenth of a second. The swimmers, who rounded out the season at 4-5, swim in the Southern Conference meet at
East Carolina, March 7-9.

Three representatives of Western Southern Life Insurance will be on campus Thursday, March 7 to discuss with anyone interested a
life insurance policy without a war clause. Anyone interested should come by the College Union to make an appointment.

MOORESVILLE

SUMMERTIMES

Yes, you put in lots of hours a week or more... AS HUNDREDS OF COLLEGE GUYS AND GALS HAVE

with...

You're trained and work on routes where people have bought Good Humor Ice Cream for years... no investment... everything supplied.

HOW YOU QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW
1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver's license... and must be able to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

Sign Up Now For Our Campus Visit
Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to schedule you for our campus visit or write to:
GOOD HUMOR, Dept. A.
800 Sylvan Avenue
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 07632
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)
