Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1968

Creative Cash

The activities fund proposed to the Student Council Tuesday night is a program with great potential. Inherent in it are some very optimistic assumptions about the students, but these presuppositions are, to a certain degree, justified. Anyone who has occasion to talk to a wide range of Davidson students is aware of the fact that some of the most creative ideas are found in students who have no “in” with the existing student organizations. Lacking this string to pull, it is difficult for them to draw out the money needed to implement their ideas.

One of the problems faced by such students is that of persuading an organization that the idea they have is worth that organization's money. This problem will remain in some form or another whether the individual is seeking funds from an organization or the activities fund. It is only reasonable for either source to ask for fairly detailed planning including a projection of the effects of a new proposal.

There is, however, an additional problem in going to an existing student organization for aid in implementing a proposal. Yearly budgets for student organizations are pretty well set by the end of October, even before this date for most of them. After the year's budget has been set by an organization, it is extremely difficult for it to find the money to support any new programs proposed to it later in the year. One effect of implementing the Blue Sky curriculum is sure to be that all organizational budgets will be pared of anything resembling fat in order to give the college the money it needs for new professors, equipment, etc.

One benefit of the activities fund then will be to make possible programs that organizations just cannot finance. This, however, will not be the most important benefit of the fund if it really becomes a growing concern. One of the reasons that some of our most imaginative students do not have an “in” into organizations here is that many of them have a real distrust of these organizations. Organizations have a tendency to become self-limiting institutions instead of productive channels for creativity.

Setting up an activities fund will allow students to conceive and bring to fruition a particular program without strangling them in the ties of an organization. Not only does the activities fund make possible activities that are not possible in the present organizational system, it also may stimulate students whose ideas have lain dormant. The success of the activities fund presupposes that there are students here who would be interested in taking advantage of its finances. This assumption is debatable, but the success of such student-initiated programs as the student recruiting program and the Student Tutorial Educational Project would seem to indicate that it has some validity.

Whether the fund is a success will depend on whether or not it is used. If we assume that there are students around who will be interested in financing their pet dreams, then the question becomes one of whether these students will be aware of the existence of the fund. The biggest problem for the fund may turn out to be honking its own horn enough to remind students that it is available.

Reading The Funnies

It’s not often that events at Davidson parallel events in the outside world. But last week a dent was made in the college’s walls of pastoral academic seclusion. Any avid reader of the “Li'l Abner” comic strip (if there are any) knows that Al Capp currently has the government trying to satisfy the appetites of a fictional developing country, the national food of which is prime rump. We do not care to debate the significance of Davidson choosing to copy the action of a comic strip as its bit of participation in the world outside, but the college’s own rump hunt does bear comment.

The object of our own hunt is the identification of the authors of the Rump Committee on Seriousness of Purpose, Concision, and Precision at Davidson College. In case anyone has forgotten, this is the group that satirized the faculty advisory committee’s criteria for a new president for the college last week. Since the Rump Committee's memorandum appeared, cries have come from all sides of the college community denouncing the bit of satire. Particularly frustrating to these critics is the fact that they do not have anyone to blame because the memorandum's claim to have been written by the college’s janitorial and custodial staff seems patently false.

We agree that the members of the Rump Committee were being cowardly in not revealing their identities, but somehow we just cannot get very upset about their memorandum. It can hardly be called overly disturbing even though its humor was somewhat heavy-handed and perhaps even ill-advised. Selecting a new president is always one of the most serious jobs to face a college community. But if those involved in the selection process at Davidson have lost the ability to laugh at themselves, then maybe all of us should go back to reading comic strips.

Examining Exams

Although we sympathize deeply with the student who has to wait unnecessarily until March 23 to take re-exams for first semester work, it seems a shame to us that this question has come to dominate the debate over the exam system. Being forced to wait until the first day of spring break is, of course, an exorbitant price to pay for having had to miss an exam at the first time it was administered. A favorite review-giving time is the week preceding spring break. It is very unfair to expect a student to take an examination on material almost two months old when he does not have ample opportunity to study for the exam in the week preceding it.

The best way to get around this problem, however, is not just moving the re-exam date around a little. The exam period itself needs to be structured to allow students to take examinations according to the schedule that is the most agreeable with the course load of the individual student. Under the present system, all members of one class take the exam at the same time (unless the professor has more than one section of the same course in which case a student may elect to take his exam with another section). Although an effort seems to be made to schedule examination hours in such a way as to prevent bunching of the times at which popular courses are taught, it is still not unusual for a student to wait a week before taking any serious exams. Then he may easily wind up having to take three or four exams in two days.

What we need to do is to take a little more advantage of our honor system. A file of all exams for the semester could be administered by the Student Government Association. When a student was ready to take a certain exam, he could check it out from the file and complete it within an appropriate time limit. Such systems have worked successfully at other schools. Students have said they like the system because it allows them to avoid bunching up their exams. Such a system would also eliminate the problem of having to take re-exams two months after the end of the semester.

Although this system lets professors get out of having to be present to administer an exam at a certain time, one problem for the faculty has cropped up at Haverford, Randolph-Macon Woman's College, and Sweetbriar where similar systems have been in use for several years. Because some people will procrastinate about anything, the faculty has been faced with the problem of students waiting until the last few days of the exam period to take all of their exams. This has meant that professors are then stuck with a large number of exams to grade in a short period in order to get their course grades in on time.

This problem could be avoided if intermediate deadlines for certain types of courses were set within the exam period time limits. Since seminar exams are likely to involve a lot of reading for the grader, a deadline could be set requiring that type of exam to be taken within the first third of the exam period. Another possibility that should be considered in re-studying the examination system is the one just adopted at Vanderbilt. In certain cases, seniors there are allowed to skip their final exams. Professors at Davidson have been known to do this on the sly, but there is no reason why it could not become a general policy for certain students.

Stories Find Roots In North Carolina

The Names and Faces of Heroes. Reynolds Price. Avon Books. $.60. The cover of this little paperback volume will lie to you, so don't pay any attention to it: the collection of stories has nothing to do with “a powerful portrayal of secret lives in a small Southern town,” nor is the illustration depicting a bosomy lass sprawled with a rather handsome gent underneath a weeping willow tree anything near being relevant. The stories do share in common the geographical area of northeast North Carolina from Raleigh up through Warrenton to the Virginia line. Reynolds Price is from Warren County, went to Duke and Oxford, and returned to Duke to teach. His stories (and two subsequent novels) draw from his youth spent in that peculiar region of North Carolina, and reflect in both his style and characterization the language and mores of the folk there: the opening story finds Papa waking up sick the morning after his birthday party celebrated with hand-turned ice cream, “and nobody could figure the connection between such nice hand-turned cream that Rato almost froze to death making and a tired heart which was what he had according to Dr. Sledge. Papa said ‘Tired of what?’ and refused to go to any hospital.”

Price is one of the few Southern novelists who has been able to imitate the Faulkner rhetoric and get away with it. There is none of Faulkner's violence, however, nor Miss McCullers’ grim sexuality.There is a lot of family but no incest, a lot of Negroes but no miscegenation. The stories are usually told by youthful narrators and are refreshing in their simplicity and slow humor. In the title story, a boy rides home late on a snowy night with his father. They are returning from a revival in Raleigh, and the boy searches his own imagination and his father's face and voice for a hero. The story is filled with images of mythical proportions and cosmic revelations, yet retains its perspective in the boy's inchoate consciousness of his father: "... he needs no crutch to enter his stories such as 'Have I told you this?' He knows he has told me, knows I want it again every time he can spare." "He will light a cigarette with a safety match (he threw away the car's lighter long ago out the window down an embankment, thinking it was a match)." Reynolds Price, in talking about the stories he has written, has described his work as "the making of stories which transmute the lethal disorder of experience into well-formed but honest and useful public objects—mirrors, microscopes, telescopes but also shields." Read this collection if you are at all interested in the craft. —WILLIAM SMYTH, THE EDITOR

Ward Calls For Aid To Exchange Study

Dear Editor:
I follow Davidson's activities with great interest though I'm always a bit behind since your paper doesn’t get to me until three weeks after its publishing date. I read that you have been having a little trouble over there in “the old country” with the Richardson Program for foreign students. Some of your readers may well remember that I was a “foreigner” during the '66-'67 year at Davidson. Though I never really regarded myself as “foreign,” I want y'all to know that my year at Davidson was unforgettable — in more ways than one. First, of course, the Richardson program, which had its financial backing discontinued. I see few letters and even less editorial space devoted to the desire to expand the program.

Effort Is Cheered

Dear Editor:
It is understandable that most Davidson students aren't too excited about the new Student Body Constitution although it did receive the approval of 62 percent of the 691 students voting. Because constitutions are generally very dull reading, a large number probably haven't read either the old or the new Constitution. Most of us are aware, however, that for any order and continuity in Student Government a constitution is a necessity. A great deal has been said about the merits of the new Constitution and the Student Government Association which it establishes. Far too little has been said, however, about the work of Chairman Mike Bates, Secretary Franklin Anderson, and the other members of the Constitutional Revision Committee. Beginning last spring, continuing through the summer and ending last week, Committee members logged several hundred hours of work. It was only after writing other schools, numerous committee and sub-committee meetings, consultation with members of the faculty and administration, constant revision, and even using the computer that the final draft was completed. Few of us would have had the interest or the energy to do the same thorough job. All of us owe the Constitutional Revision Committee a great debt of thanks for a job well done.
Tom Earnhardt '68
Student Council President
Davidson College

If you all can do so well in raising money to rebuild Chambers, I am sure you have the ability to find donors for a program which will do far more for Davidson in the long run than will the benefits accrued by installing air conditioning. In this time of international crisis, with America getting itself involved in everyone else's affairs, I think it a matter of urgent priority that Davidson adopt an internationalist attitude to prove to the world that the average American student is not an isolationist when it comes to the point of furthering the cause of education. Secondly, do I sense a new wave of liberal views seeping into the campus? As a member of the executive staff belonging to the Peace in Vietnam group at University, I often wonder if American students fully realize the concern there is amongst European students with Vietnam affairs. On campus, we hold regular meetings condemning America's intervention in Vietnam. The majority of British universities have formally protested against America’s actions in her role as a world policeman. In the face of this, I heartily applaud those brave students with the courage to stand by their convictions.

Charlotte

It is a dangerous folly to think that the individual actions of a few principled people flying in the face of the Establishment fail to bring rewards. You know, I have great difficulty explaining to fellow students here the actions of your vast armies in S. E. Asia. Many students of politics here tend to equate the apparent American expansionism with empire-building. We British know full well that empire-building is not a profitable business in the long run, so why on earth do you not take a lesson from our failures? At times I become depressed over the American actions in Vietnam. I take it almost as a personal insult. Can it really be that those people who were so kind to me while I was with them for the most enjoyable and exciting year of my life, can it be those same warm-hearted people who are in favor, against all world opinion, of Vietnam intervention and all the hardships it is bringing to us? I sincerely hope to read of more action on the Davidson campus concerning publication of the very real danger to world peace that the U.S. armed forces are creating.
Roger Ward
University of Lancaster
Lancaster, England

The Buber Boneo
By HEYWARD CARTER
Associate Editor

No Complaints

As incredible and entirely against tradition as it may seem to you who eagerly peruse this side of the editorial page each week in search of the latest exposition of the stupidity of the faculty, the administration, the students, the trustees, President Johnson, etc., I must admit that it was impossible for me to find anything this week even halfway significant to complain about. Part of this dearth of material for complaint is due to the fact that most of the big issues of student-administration disagreement at Davidson have been solved or compromised. Part of it is also due to the advent of spring and a general unwillingness on campus either to look for issues or to debate them. To put it bluntly, no one really gives a damn about anything much these days. Which is why it seems like a good time to comment on a few things, “good and bad,” none of which is worthwhile enough to merit a whole column by itself.

First gripe of the day is that to date there seems to have been no serious thought given to the proposal that instead of just looking for a new president to take Dr. Martin’s place, the faculty and trustees concern themselves with creating two separate offices, those of President and Chancellor, one to handle fundraising and the other to tend to more academic matters. What good will it do Davidson if she gets a first-rate president who is forced to perform a second-rate job in each of these areas simply because he doesn’t have the time to devote his full energies to either one or the other? After a year or two of supervising the escalation of Davidson’s own war on poverty and archaic academics, Dean Rusk—should he be the next president—would be more than glad to get back into the State Department.

Another gripe, and a much more personal one, concerns the non-existence of a warning light or crossbar at the railroad tracks on the street in back of Cardboard Village. For some time there have been complaints about the absence of such a warning, but no one ever pays any attention to them unless he himself is involved. Having come close to being wiped out early one morning last week by good old 1:18 as she balled her way to Mooresville, I can now appreciate the problem. And I’m far from being the first one to come close to getting a cow-catcher in the head—just a year or two ago a train caught a professor’s car and dragged it with his family in it a hundred or so yards, and by the time he got through trying to collect for damages from the railroad he was glad they weren't charged for the ride. I realize the power of the railroad lobbies in Raleigh and understand their reluctance to spend 20 or so thousand dollars to install and maintain a warning light at every crossing in the state, but one that is as well-traveled as is the one in Davidson deserves some sort of protection. But railroads will continue to save money by ignoring near-misses like mine until some poor clod greases the tracks from here to Mooresville, and then a warning light might be considered—providing, of course, that the town of Davidson makes an adequate contribution.

But, I’m glad to be able to report, not all that has happened lately falls in the bad news category. Take the new non-deferment policy for postgraduates, for example. What a terrific way to boost the standing of the ROTC department on campus while at the same time making it easier for those of us who are already in advanced ROTC to get into a good grad school because no one else will be able to go until they have served their time. And it will effectively weed out all those boys who really aren’t interested in grad school at all but are just trying to avoid the draft. All in all, the decision was a stroke of genius on Gen. Hershey’s part. And the best part of it all was pointed out last Saturday by Betty Vetter, executive director of the Scientific Manpower Commission, who acutely observed that the U.S. Army will now be “the best educated Army in history.” Somehow, though, I don’t think it will make much difference to the average VC whether the American soldier he just killed had his PhD or not—but it may make a great deal of difference to America.

Fill ‘er up. It’s a long drive home.
(Staff Photo by Olson)