BENCH ROCKY CROSSWHITE

The Davidson-West Virginia Rivalry

As the sellout crowd of 11,666 in the Charlotte Coliseum last Saturday night will attest, the Davidson-West Virginia basketball games have become very popular Southern Conference events. West Virginia has a long history of nationally ranked basketball teams while Davidson is a rather young power. In almost every way the two schools are vastly different, as can be expected in comparing a state university and a small private institution. About the only similarity I can see between the two schools is that both the city of Morgantown and the town of Davidson exist only because the schools are located there.

The intense rivalry on the basketball court between the teams of the two schools was initiated probably before the 1962-63 season, but this is where I will start. If you recall, that was the year Terry Holland was a junior and the Hetzel-Davidson-Teague crew were sophomores. At Morgantown that year Davidson lost the ball game by one point after Hetzel was called for goal tending a last-second shot that looked like a pass. From that year on, the SC title became a battle between Davidson and West Virginia, with the other seven teams occasionally pulling upsets, but usually settling for the fight for third place.

In the 1964-65 season, the year Davidson was ranked number one in the nation by Sports Illustrated, West Virginia beat Davidson in the Southern Conference Tournament. Previously, Davidson had beaten West Virginia badly in the two regular season games. Finally, in the 1965-66 season Davidson beat the Mountaineers in the final game of the Southern Conference tournament to win their first conference basketball title after splitting the two regular season games. WVU was favored in the tournament and the upset was unexpected.

Last season, the two regular season games were very close, with the Mountaineers winning the game at Morgantown by a slim margin after our futile comeback attempt. We won the game in Charlotte, after three overtimes, when Mike O’Neill hit a twenty-foot jump shot at the buzzer. After the game Mike was asked to comment about if the pressure bothered him. “A twenty-foot shot is a twenty-foot shot, no matter when you try it,” said O’Neill coolly. West Virginia then clobbered us in the SC tournament finale last year.

Well, this year has been no exception in regard to the excitement generated by the series. As everyone knows, we threw away a seventeen-point lead at WVU and lost in overtime. It was really hard to believe and hard to do, but we managed. With five minutes left in the game Bob Pickens told me it was impossible to lose unless we practically gave them the ball every time we had it. That's just about what we did and we lost. I could try to make up some excuses, but there aren't many valid ones so I won't try. We blew it. We did show people on Saturday that we are a better team than West Virginia. I won’t attempt to describe the game. It was our best game of the year. Now what you are probably asking is “how about the Southern Conference tournament?” If both Davidson and West Virginia make it to the finals it should be quite a game. After the game Saturday, Ron Williams, the West Virginia guard, told Lefty in his squeaky voice, “Coach, we'll be back, we’ll be back, we'll be back!” In a similar high voice, Lefty replied, “Ron, we'll be here, we'll be here, we'll be here!”

There is no love lost between Lefty and Bucky Waters, the WVU coach. At Morgantown this year the WVU football players were given seats right behind our bench. I was scared the whole time. Last year Waters accused Lefty of cussing loudly on the sidelines so Lefty had a tape recorder put near the WVU bench during the tournament in case Waters said anything. There were other incidents like these which I will not elaborate on at this time. These incidents and the situation make for a true rivalry between the two teams, the type you read about in fiction stories. Even the skin team gets to hate the West Virginia skins during the games and since we don’t play against each other, it is not an easy thing to do. I don’t know who will win if Davidson plays West Virginia in the SC tournament, but the one thing I will say is that it will be a good game to watch, and that’s probably what I'll be doing.

Season Nears End; Delts Stay In Front

IMAC basketball action continued this week, attempting to finish the season's schedule of games as quickly as possible. Director of the program Sterling Martin said that the fraternities are cooperating well with the heavy scheduling necessary to complete the season. In games reported this week, the Delts maintained their unblemished record and their hold on first place in the league. They defeated...

Kroll Becoming Seasoned Soph

By DOUG HAYNES
Sports Writer

One of the five sophomores on the Davidson basketball team, Jerry Kroll has made an outstanding contribution to the ‘Cats 14-4 record. Besides being a good basketball player, Kroll is a good student. He chose Davidson on the early decision plan before Coach Driesell knew how good a player he really was. While attending Memorial Senior High in Houston, Texas, he was All-State three years in a row. His senior year he averaged 26 points a game, and led his team to the state championship. He was also named a high school All-American. Last year as a freshman, Kroll averaged over 18 points a game and helped guide the squad to an undefeated season.

Promising Cindermen In Training

Coach Heath Whittle is very optimistic about the prospects for the new track season. Many team members return from last year's squad. In addition, the rule allowing freshmen to participate in varsity track will help the team greatly. Greg Cox will be a team leader in several events. He will participate in the broad jump, triple jump, 440 relay, high hurdles and high jump. Whit Morrow and freshman Rick Lyon will run the sprint events for the ‘Cat cindermen. They will run in the 60 yd. dash in the Big Seven indoor meet, Feb. 24, at Chapel Hill. John Taylor, another freshman sprinter, will be useful to the team after he overcomes a leg injury. School record-holder Tony Orsborn will be back to high jump for the track team after basketball season is over. Other high jumpers are Frank Bass and Brian Smith. John Puckett is expected to be very strong in the mile, the 880 and the mile relay. His brother James will run in the 880 and the mile relay also. Steve Kirley, a strong shot putter and discus thrower, will help the team when he joins it after freshman basketball. Junior Bill Bryan also will throw the discus.

Smith, Fagg Not Distracted; To Stay Davidson Coaches

By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Head football coach Homer Smith was recently interviewed for a coaching job at the University of Utah. No actual terms of contract were discussed, but Smith stressed that he did not want to leave the Davidson football program. Then last week assistant coach Dave Fagg was offered the head football coaching job at Guilford College. Fagg turned down the offer to maintain his position as line coach in the Davidson program.

Smith explained that the last successful coach at Utah was Jack Curtis, who was Smith’s superior at Stanford. When the Utah vacancy was announced, Curtis recommended Smith for the job. “I was contacted, interviewed at a coaches’ conference in New York and I visited the Utah campus,” Smith said. He added that he does not really know how much a candidate he was for the job because no contract was discussed. “The trip was interesting and helpful for me. When I came back I found myself more enthusiastic than ever about this program,” he continued. Smith went on to say that seeing a football program at a large state university gave him a new perspective on the program here at Davidson. Utah has a great number of football scholarships. “The trip was good also because it helped for me to get far away and see another program,” he added. But he emphasized that he did not want to leave the Davidson football program.

Both Smith and Fagg have been coaches at Davidson for three years. Smith said that the reason that neither one of them wanted to take a coaching job elsewhere was that they want to be with the team that they have recruited and coached. “We have some fine young people who are doing well as students and in their football preparations, and we'd like to be with them next fall when they go against Bucknell, Sept. 21,” Smith said. “I was relieved when coach Fagg turned down Guilford’s financially attractive job because I've never tried to do our head coaching job without him and I'm not sure what would happen if he weren't around doing the great job he has done for three years,” he concluded.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 692-6581

KROLL... Strong soph.This year Kroll has started every game for the ‘Cats. Coach Driesell said, “Jerry has performed just about as I had expected. He played real well in the pre-season play, so I used him when the season began. He got off to a slow start because he wasn't used to his new position as forward, but he's gaining more confidence now.” Driesell praised Kroll's type of shooting. “One of Jerry's assets is his high arching jump-shot from the 15-25 foot range. In the past couple of games, he has used this shot much more frequently and effectively than before.” Driesell attributes this to Kroll's added confidence and the ‘Cats’ “freelance type of offense.” Driesell went on to point out his improved defensive work. Until the Wake Forest game, Kroll was in foul trouble almost every game and fouled out of some big ones including the Duke and West Virginia games. But since this time, Kroll has managed to keep his fouls to a minimum. Kroll, in analyzing this year’s team, pointed out that the team is really “up” for the Southern Conference tournament. “Back early in the season, everything was so far away that it was hard to get direction. Now we know more, and we're ready.” This year Kroll had his best game against Duke by scoring 25 points. Averaging nearly 11 points a ball game, Kroll leads the team in free throw percentage with an 88 percent mark. Kroll’s plans for the future show an interest in architecture and graduate school at Rice University. This summer he will be a lifeguard and will attend the summer session at the University of Houston. Driesell believes that possibly Kroll could play pro ball with a lot of experience and improvement. “Of course, I wasn't too sure of Hetzel and Snyder, but look how well they've done.”

What's it like for a giant? Depends on the giant. If the giant happens to be Ford Motor Company, it can be a distinct advantage. See your placement director and make an appointment to see the man from Ford when he is here on February 21.

The Sigs beat the Sigs 60-47, with George Leight leading the way with 17 points. Mike Kelly was high man for the losers with 12. Earlier in the week Hank Strickland’s 26 led the Betas to a 69-31 laugher over the Pikas. Tom Hendren’s 12 was high for the Pikas. The Betas added another easy victory this week by romping over the SAE’s 78-40. In that game Johnny Baker's 29 led the way, while Strickland added 19. Gresh Bayne hit for 15 for the losers. The SAE’s suffered another loss at the hands of the Sigma Chis, this time by a 76-48 score. Pete Norton led the Machi attack with 28. Charley Brockwell's 18 was high for the SAE’s. The ATO's handed the SAE's their third loss of the week, 64-53. Geoff Birkhead’s 19 paced the Tau offense. K. D. Weeks’ 15 made him high man for the losers. The Gams handed the ATO’s an overtime defeat this week, 57-55. John Hansleman's 13 was high for the Taus in that game, Doug Rhymes hit for 17 for the Gams. The Taus bounced back to beat the Sig Eps 96-48. In that game, which was close throughout, Cecil Clifton led all scorers with 22, Sam Hines hit for 16 for the losers. The Pikas picked up their first win of the season at the expense of the SPE’s, 67-54. Davis Liles led the Pika attack with 23. Fletcher Hartsell’s 21 led the SPE’s. The winless Independents made a game of it in losing to the Kappa Sigs 52-48. The Indies led at the half, but were unable to fight off the Sigs’ second half rally. Bob Peel's 26 was high for the Indies. Gordon Slade paced the Sig win with 17. The Sigs added another win during the week, this one a 59-52 win over the Pi Kaps. Action coming up in the IMAC includes volleyball, tennis, track, swimming, and handball.

Golf Team To Defend SC Title

Dr. Tom Scott, coach of Davidson's golf team, is very optimistic about the prospects for this year’s golfers. The team has many returning lettermen and several promising freshmen. Scott is hopeful that the team will defend the Southern Conference which it has won twice in a row. Heading the list of returning players is Mike Spann, who was the medalist in last year’s conference tournament. Backing up Spann will be George Leigh, third in the conference last season. Others returning from last year's 5-5 team are John Giles, Carey Hite, Tucker Dalton, and Bruce Vanderbloemen. The golfers have won five conference championships. Scott said, “This team should be a winner. I think we have a good chance to repeat as champs.” Scott said that the present schedule is for 10 matches in addition to the conference tourney.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

The Davidsonian
February 9, 1968
Page Five

(Staff Photos by Weems)

DAVIS LYLES’ DEFENSIVE EFFORTS NOT ENOUGH
Betas Beat Pikas in IMAC action.

Moser’s Defense, Scoring Make Him Vital To Cagers

In the last several games that Davidson has played, Dave Moser has taken the position of a real team leader. Tight defense and a new scoring threat have made Moser more valuable to the Wildcats than ever. Moser has been drawing the tough defensive jobs in the ‘Cats’ recent games and he has been playing tremendous defense. Against VPI, Moser guarded Glen Combs, one of the sharpest-shooting guards in the country. Moser held Combs to a total of 13, while tossing in 14 himself. Then in Saturday's big one over West Virginia, Moser made high-scoring Ron Williams settle for 16. Containing Williams is a big factor in defeating the Mountaineers. In addition to depending on Moser to guard the good shooters, the Wildcat offense is in the redheaded guard's hands. Moser handles the ball against pressure defenses and quarterbacks the offense once he gets into the forecourt. This job as team leader is one that Moser has developed by experience over his two varsity years. After the loss to Vanderbilt in the Sugar Bowl Tournament, a game in which Moser was completely bottled up, he lost some confidence in himself. Now Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell says that he has this confidence back again. “Dave knows that he can do it. Now he realizes that he can score, so he is shooting more and helping the team,” Driesell said. Moser’s increased scoring ability has been the result of shooting more since the Christmas break. Driesell said that because Moser’s shooting percentage was low and because the Wildcats need the scoring threat from the outside he told the guard to shoot more. Now the team depends on his outside scoring. In the Furman game his three long jumpers in the second half were the only outside scoring the ‘Cats did in that half. “Moser may be the most valuable player on the team because he does so many different things well,” Driesell added. His defense, shooting, and play-making make him essential in the Davidson attack. He adds surprising rebound strength for a guard his size. Moser is taking command now, running the offense. He is driving more. His increased scoring threat takes some of the pressure off the other players on the team. Moser’s several assists per game are another vital contribution to the team's success.

Guilford Loses To ’Cats In Runaway Mat Match

Guilford College fell victim to the Davidson grapplers in a match last night in Greensboro, 34-5. The ‘Cats overwhelmed Guilford, winning every match but one. Hal Iverson, a freshman wrestling in the 123-pound weight class, won his match with a 9-2 decision over Robert Blue. Colin Hudson, veteran champion in the 123-pound division wrestled in the 130-pound event. He won his match by a pin over Julian Cooper. Dean Cromartie won the 137-pound match by a decision, crushing his opponent Perry Benbow 13-2. Dick Morrison, another freshman ‘Cat grappler, pinned Mike Stilwell in the 145 event. Jack Jacobs won his 152-pound match over George Norman by a 9-3 score. Davidson's only loss came in the 160-pound class, Alan Kirkpatrick was pinned by Guilford’s Dennis Carroll. The Wildcats won by a forfeit in the 167-pound class. Kerry Keith pinned Bob Nichols in the 177-pound event. Team captain Lowell Bryan won a forfeit victory in the heavyweight competition.

Davidson's next wrestling match will be against The Citadel Feb. 15, in Charleston.

Ristoranti
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEK DAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
Never Over $1.00 Cover
300 E. Morehead St.
Behind Conder

Charlotte Soda Shop
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414