Page Four February 16, 1968

Whereas, to stand still is to slip backwards, by some devious logic, and whereas, Drivelson must maintain a tradition of
change to meet the awesome needs of the future, we of the Blue Fly Committee herein propose a new curriculum
revision to succeed the old revision when the Philosophy Department gets tired of the old plan. Although we have not
been appointed by the administration, we feel we are eminently qualified; Mr. Beard because of his charm, and Mr. Jones
because he once told Earl MacCormac that he was wrong. Therefore, we propose the following changes:

RUSH
Rush shall be held the first week of the first semester. All freshmen not getting bids will have to go
home. Thus we will have effective 100 per cent affiliation.

DRINKING RULE
There will be compulsory drinking at least three times a week.

LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT
In addition to Urdu, the other language having immeasurable influence on Western culture which has not been previously taught at
Drivelson should be taught, namely, Linear A.

(Midwinters Insert) Text Of Blue Fly Report

FEMALE COMPANIONSHIP
Whereas, the benefits of female companionship have been deemed necessary for the proper transaction of the educational process, and whereas,
women have been proclaimed to be the intellectual equals of men, we conclude that the beneficial effect derived from female
companionship is the result of physical rather than intellectual factors, namely, the differences in anatomical structure. We believe that such
benefits could be most efficiently secured through the establishment of Dook dormitory as a brothel. Failing this—in that such differences
will therefore be revealed to be inconsistent with the ideals of a liberal education—we propose that such differences be abolished.

PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES
All physical activities such as smoking, shining shoes, auto driving, listening to records, idle talk, shaving, card playing, eating, etc.,
being mundane and fleshly and therefore inconsistent with the ideals of a liberal education, should be forbidden on the campus
or in the town.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Student government, which pursues practical rather than theoretical ends, and is therefore inconsistent with the ideals of a liberal education,
should be abolished.

THE ADMINISTRATION
The administration, which pursues practical rather than theoretical ends, and is therefore inconsistent with the ideals of a liberal education,
should be abolished.

CHRISTIAN COMMITMENT
In keeping with Drivelson’s Christian commitment, at least one bona fide saint shall be included in each freshman class.

ATHLETICS
In the light of the maxim, mens sana in corpore sano, two years of Latin shall be compulsory, with nine
cuts allowed in a semester, all but five of which must be made up. Part of this requirement may be
met at the lake campus.

SCHEDULE
The following holidays will be added to the schedule: George Washington’s birthday, Thomas Jefferson’s birthday, Abraham Lincoln’s birthday, Robert E.
Lee's birthday, Jefferson Davis's birthday, William P. Davidson’s birthday, Chalmers Davidson's birthday, Don Davidson’s birthday, Chet Davidson’s birthday and James
W. Reid Appreciation Day, which shall be celebrated on the first day of classes.

CURRICULUM
Since there are 37.5 hours of instruction offered for a three-hour course, and there are 5 hrs, 50 mins. in
a class day, such a three-hour course could be effectively taught in one week (six class days of six hours
each). Since the average Drivelson student takes five courses each semester, or 10 courses each year, he could complete a
year’s work in 10 weeks. In the light of these facts, we propose that the schedule be revised, such that
a semester course is taught in one week, and that graduation requirements be met in 41 weeks, that is, by
the end of the freshman year. A two-track program will be initiated: the student may elect to graduate at the
end of his freshman year and go on to graduate school after the usual 14-week summer vacation, or he may
spend his sophomore, junior and senior years engaged in prayer, meditation, reading of scripture, throwing of frisbee, playing of flickerball,
rushing of fraternity and other activities not deemed by this committee to be inconsistent with the ideals of a liberal
education.

EXTENDED RUSH
All students who do not get into Dook dormitory when rooms are assigned will be given an opportunity at extended
rush.

Respectfully submitted,
The Blue Fly Committee
Hugh J. Beard, Vice Chairman
Philip Jones, Vice Chairman

Jock Banquet Concludes
By ACE BOYTE
Hack Writer

There will be no purrs and roars of spirited fans at Drivelson tonight. Charlotte's Wildfelines will not be able to
make an extra performance at Davidson tonight as had been hoped. David Gindrinking, chairman emeritus of the Social Council announced
yesterday. The Charlotte professional basketball team had been tentatively scheduled to perform under the auspices of the Social Council tonight
at 8 p.m. in the gymnasium. Gindrinking said, “The team feels that the four performances it had already scheduled for
the campus were all it could afford to give for such a charity-type program.” Lefty Disraeli, team agent, said, “Sure,
we'd like to come out to give you boys a show, but, let's face it, charity just don't pay very
much money.” “My boys work hard,” he said, “and we just can’t afford to show them when it don’t pay.
Maybe you can catch them on our college tour at other campuses.” In a spirit of compromise, Dr. Tom Scotfree,
production manager, announced that the team would be available to sign autographs at a local restaurant after the other Social
Council performances.

Neat Stuff
Television-watching and combo parties will highlight the College Union's nightlife this weekend.

Ed Hombre, Union president,Promised yesterday that all Union televisions will be repaired by tomorrow so that the full Union program
will be able to go on as planned. Hombre said, “We expect the whole campus, not just Independents, to turn
out for our programs. Three Greeks have already promised to attend, at the price of skipping one of their parties.”

Upsetting Intramural Year
By RED DUNHAM
Sports Hack

The entire intramural season came to a close Tuesday evening with a banquet program in Wildcat B for participating players,
referees, and coaches. Doug Hey That Rhymes, IMAC President, presented the overall winner trophy to W. J. “Wild Bill” Seigler,
captain of the winning squad, the Independents. Seigler, visibly shaken, said that it was a team effort which won the
trophy. “It was a team effort which won the trophy,” he said. After the winning squad finished a cheer for
all the losers, award presentations continued, with awards being presented to the outstanding participants in this year's competition.

Two top awards were presented by past Grand National President of IMAC, Sterling Martin. Martin presented the Perry R. Crosswhite
Team Spirit Award to the Pi Kappa Phi basketball squad. In making the presentation, he cited the manner in which
the Pi Kapps did not miss a game, in spite of heavy losses on numerous occasions. The C. G. Driessell
Team Sportsmanship Award, also presented by Martin, went collectively to the flickerball, basketball, softball, wrestling, tennis, golf, and swimming teams
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Rhymes presented two other special awards: the W. Rod Knowles Most Improved Player Award to Robert
Pyeatt of Sigma Phi Epsilon, and the T. B. Stephens Most Effective Coach Award to Pi Kappa Alpha’s Sam Aycock.

(Bad Photos by Weems)

INVINCIBLE INDEPENDENT
Fraternities didn’t have a chance.

Rep. J. Storm Burman Claims ‘Soul’ Conspiracy

Negro-In-Residence Named By Johnson
By SAMMY BOYTE
Head Hack

Less Black has been appointed Negro-in-residence for the next academic year, Dr. Frontman Johnson, dean of Drivelson College, announced this
morning. “We are very pleased that good ol’ Less has agreed to take the post,” said Johnson. “He has had
several years of experience as a Negro and should, therefore, be able to handle the job adequately. He has already
started his Afro hairstyle.” Black, presently a student at Drivelson, said he was looking forward to assuming his new responsibility
next year, and compared the move to stepping up to the varsity after playing only intramurals. “Now, at least, I
will be paid for doing the job,” he quipped. Johnson explained that Black's duties will include entertaining visiting foundation heads
at meals. “If it is a northern foundation,” added Johnson, “Black will sit at the head table; for Southern money,
he will wait on the table.”

LESS BLACK

WASHINGTON (IPU) — Representative J. Storm Burman, chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Proclivities, said Friday his committee has
discovered that black revolutionaries have been using “soul music” to communicate with their followers. “The lyrics to those songs carry
special meanings for revolutionaries,” Burman drawled. “For instance, the words ‘let me wrap you in my warm and tender love’
really mean let me zap you with my cold and hard gun.” Burman also reported that other songs carry meanings
too. For instance, “Dancing In the Streets” refers to the riots that will signal the revolution, and “Gonna Wait ‘Til
the Midnight Hour” contains the key for the timetable of the rebellion, he said. “That explains why Motown headquarters in
Detroit were not burned during the riots there,” he said. The songs even list the cities to be burned, said
Burman. For example, the song “Dancing In The Street” refers to several cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and Detroit, where the
words say there will be “dancing in the street.” “This is just another example of the state of affairs in
this country today,” Burman said as he thumbed through his copy of THE DRIBBLESONIAN. Burman said the White House had
refused to consider his report. “They even threatened to have me committed,” he shrieked.

All Candidates Unite For Sound And Fury
By BOB PYEATT
Hack Writer

All four leading potential candidates for president of the student body affirmed their intentions Thursday. “The end result of all
governmental patterns is excretionary,” Lecher Hardsell said. “We must unite the disputatious, apathetic factions for an undisputatious, non-apathetic studentry.” Potential
candidate Joe Mercey echoed this statement. “The end result of all governmental patterns is excretionary,” he opined. “We must unite
the disputatious, apathetic factions for a non-disputatious, unapathetic studentry.” Frank Murkey further clouded the issue when he said, “The end
result of all governmental patterns is excretionary.” He said, “We must unite the disputatious, apathetic factions for an indisputatious, imapathetic
studentry.” Finally, Fud Cowsir got in the last word. “The end result of all governmental patterns is excretionary,” he commented.
“We must unite the disputatious, apathetic factions for an indisputatious, inapathetic studentry.”

Appointed because of experience.

THE DRIBBLESONIAN
Published once in eternity. Entered as second class trash at post office, Boondocks, West Carolina.
Sam Boll Editor-in-Chief
Bills Squatson Business Manager

On Big Ideas

Meaningless double talk is wordiness. A meaningless phrase is another meaningless phrase. However, a meaningless phrase could be soundless fury
saying nothing. Also, it is probably another meaningless phrase. Again, if this meaningless phrase is a meaningless phrase, then it
will perhaps seem to be a meaningless phrase. Is a meaningless phrase really a meaningless phrase? Not always. Some meaningless
phrases are parts of meaningless sentences. Therefore, the administration, faculty, and students should unite in a meaningless phrase, but the
meaningless phrase should be positive and constructive.

EDITORIALS
Follow The Leader
THE CHAIN GANG
Administration, student government, newspaper.

Sorry, (Yawn) Prof

Only five out of 72 professors gave lectures that kept their students awake during the time of a survey Tuesday
by THE DRIBBLESONIAN. The check was made between 9:20 and 12:50, omitting first period. The survey showed an average of
25 percent of students awake second period, 33 percent third, and 32 percent fourth. There was no professor present for
Physics 49 (metaphysics). Professors are paid an average salary of $13,000, and this college ranks fourth in the South in
average faculty salaries.
