The Sweat Band Incident

I was cold last Saturday as I sat in the stands by the tennis courts watching George Berner play his number one singles match. The air had a chill to it, and the wind was blowing. Everyone there was shivering. Everyone except George. He had just asked Coach Harry Fogleman to bring him a sweat band for his wrist.

Funny thing about that sweat band. “It will be the turning point of the match,” said one fan as George slid the band on his wrist. “But he’s putting the band on his left wrist, and he’s right-handed,” commented another. “That’s just it,” said a third. “His opponent will be so busy trying to figure out why he has it on his left wrist instead of his right, he won’t be able to concentrate on his game.”

“Great story,” thought I, as I considered the incident’s possibilities as column material. “I think I'll stick around and see.”

Now I know that you aren't going to believe this, but the sweat band incident proved to be the turning point of the match. George had been having a rather rough time with his opponent from East Tennessee State. The little guy came into the match with his mind set on upsetting George, and he had won the first few games to make his intentions quite clear. And something was wrong with George’s racket, too. Every time he tried to return a serve, the wood hit the ball instead of the strings. Something had to be done. So George called on the sweat band. It worked. His opponent was only able to win one more game in the entire match, and George had chalked up another victory.

Actually, George attributed his victory to another factor and denied all knowledge of the sweat band incident. “All I wanted the wrist band for,” he said later, “was to wipe the perspiration from my forehead.” And why the left wrist instead of the right? “It just happened that way,” he said, ruining a perfectly wonderful story.

The real reason for the change in the course of the match, as George saw it, was his opponent’s anger after a close call in the next game. In that game, George called one of his opponent’s serves wide. His opponent, becoming slightly upset at the call, told George that he thought the serve was in play. Being a good sport at heart, George replied that he could have made a mistake, and that he would give him two serves, the courteous thing to do. Not being quite satisfied by George’s generosity, his foe jumped over the net to see if he could find a vestige of his serve on the “in” side of the center line. After the two of them searched in vain for several minutes, George concluded that his call was correct, his adversary grumbled and climbed back over the net and play continued.

The next serve was good, and George, not wishing to be outdone, smashed it back toward the net. The ball lacked the height to clear the net entirely, but managed to drop on the opponent's side, completely unplayable. In his inimitable, ethnic manner, George flashed a sly grin at the crowd and continued. “After that,” George said, “he couldn’t do a thing. He just kept getting madder, and that made it funny.”

The likable Finn, who plans to return home in June to play on his country’s Davis Cup team, cited his opponent’s misfortunes as one of the funny aspects of his game. “There is just so much to do in tennis,” he said, “so much to think about, that you can’t afford to get mad. He got mad out there; his playing showed it.”

The same thing had happened to George earlier in the week in his match with Harvard’s John Levin. “I had him at game, set, match point,” he said, “and then a couple of simple mistakes caused me to get mad at myself. I couldn’t concentrate on my game and I blew it.” George had Levin 5-1 in the final set, and ended up losing the set and the match 8-10. “That was the first time I have ever lost on a match point,” he added. “I guess it was sort of like the Davidson-West Virginia basketball game.” Not appearing to be terribly upset at his loss as he reflected back on the match, George blamed his mistakes on over-confidence, and added, “I’m just glad the loss came on a day when the team won anyway.”

Leave it to the flashy Finn to be a team man in an individual’s racket.

(Staff Photo by Friebele)

PI KAPP PITCH FOILS PIKA

TOM KASTNER

One of very few which passed Pika bats untouched.

Machis Edge Gams, 4-3; Sig Eps Win Three More

By GARY SIGMON
Sports Writer

Very close contests and complete demolitions characterized games played this week as IMAC softball entered its second week.

In perhaps the closest contest of the week, Sigma Chi defeated Phi Gamma Delta 4-3 behind the pitching of Bobby Lanier and the batting display of Bobby Pryor. The game switched leads several times before the Machis pulled it out with two runs in the last inning.

Sigma Phi Epsilon increased its record to 4-1 this week with victories over Pi Kappa Alpha and Beta Theta Pi. The Sig Eps produced their best hitting attack of the season against the Pikas to support the pitching of Gary Sigmon. Against the Betas, SPE pitcher Bob Dunham struck out nine, while Randy Bridges led the offense.

The Independents lengthened their losing streak this week as they lost by forfeit to Pi Kappa Phi and then lost to Kappa Alpha. Frank Grey pitched and batted the KA's to a smashing 20-9 win in the Tuesday contest.

Mike Sherrill's three hits led the Pikas to a 16-8 trouncing of Pi Kappa Phi. Tom Kastner picked up the win, while the fielding of Bobby Vagt was a big factor in the win.

Phi Delta Theta edged by Kappa Sigma 6-4, paced by Rocky Crosswhite and Terry Esterkamp. Crosswhite held the Kappa Sigs in check, as Esterkamp drove in several runs at the plate.

Sigma Nu easily took Alpha Tau Omega by the score of 14-7. Rudy Mauney and John Oliver led the Nu hitting attack, while Steve Hayes was a standout in the field.

Yesterday afternoon five games were played. The Phi Delts swept past a hard-hitting Sigma Nu team, the Sig Eps barreled over the Independents.

Girls To Play

Skirts will be ‘in’ at the Davidson tennis courts Wednesday. The occasion for the oddity will be an exhibition match Wednesday afternoon, featuring two internationally ranked women tennis players who are participating in the Charlotte Invitational Tennis Tournament. Miss Ingrid Lofdahl, the number one woman player in Sweden, will face an unnamed American star in singles competition.

Tennis coach Harry Fogleman describes Miss Lofdahl as “a gorgeous Swedish blonde.” After the singles match, the girls will team with two Davidson players for a two-set mixed doubles exhibition. Tickets for the Charlotte tourney will be available all day Wednesday in the new Stowe Tennis House, at a reduced student rate. There is no charge for the exhibition.

Foglemen Breeze By ISU; Raise Record To 10-1-1

By DAVID BRANCH
Sports Writer

The Davidson Tennis team tackled visiting Xavier University this afternoon after they overpowered visiting Indiana State University 7-2 in a match played here Monday. Davidson, playing without the services of injured Dan Hearon, nevertheless left no doubt as to which was the superior team in the Indiana State game, sweeping all six singles matches. George Berner, the Wildcats’ number one player, won the first set.of his match 6-0, and then coasted home 7-5 in the final set for the win. David Jennings looked good in posting a 6-2, 6-0 win in the number five singles match. Jennings then teamed with sophomore Randy Jones for Davidson's only win in the doubles competition. Davidson Coach Harry Fogleman credited Jennings with "playing very well for us."

Last Saturday the Wildcats edged by a strong East Tennessee State University team by a 6-3 score. "They had a very good team," Fogleman commented. "They are a full scholarship team and they had as good a personnel as we have faced this year." None of the Wildcat players have a tennis scholarship. Team captain Sam Hatcher scored a decisive win in the number two singles match and then teamed with Berner to capture the number one doubles competition. "Hatcher is playing much better recently," Fogleman said. "His whole game is beginning to come around." James Cantrell and Jennings also picked up wins in the singles, Jennings having to come back after losing the first set 2-6 to win the final sets 6-3, 6-3. In other action, Cantrell and Jennings teamed up for a 6-4, 6-3 win in the number three doubles.

The Wildcats' overall record now stands at 10-1-1. The defending champs are undefeated in the Southern Conference race, a 4-4 tie with The Citadel being the only blemish on their Conference chart.

CAMP DEERHORN
One of America’s outstanding private boys camps, located in northern Wisconsin, announces a limited number of openings on the staff for the 1968 season. Dates are June 28 - August 14. Compensation includes salary, round trip transportation, living quarters, board, and laundry. This is an unusually attractive summer job and only men of the highest character and integrity will be considered. For complete information, write B.D. C. Broadbridge, 2863 Shannon Court, Northbrook, Ill, 60062.

The Independents, and the Kappa Sigs and the Pikas picked up wins over the Betas and the ATO’s. In a make-up game yesterday, the Phi Gams took the victory over the SAE's.

The Davidsonian
April 12, 1968
Page Five

Pitchers Shine, But ’Cat Nine Loses Two
By BILL BERRY
Sports Writer

Two Davidson pitchers turned in top performances, Wildcat hitters topped opposing team batting, and the charges of Coach Tom Stevens were still unable to chalk up a game in the win column this week. The Wildcat nine dropped two shutouts in three days this week, losing to Belmont Abbey 4-0 on Tuesday and to The Citadel yesterday by a score of 1-0. The team scattered six hits yesterday afternoon, but were unable to put together an effective rally. Southpaw sophomore Clark Nickerson pitched eight innings in the game, allowing only one run and four hits, all singles. The lone Citadel run came across from third in the fourth inning as an attempted double play failed.

Davidson had an opportunity to tie the score in the eighth inning but a mental error on the part of a ’Cat baserunner spoiled the rally. The bases were loaded in the eighth with one out when Gordon Slade grounded a ball to the Citadel second baseman. The player tagged the runner going to second and flipped to first to double up Slade. Several players noted after the game that the double play could have been avoided if the runner from first had hesitated a moment. Slade and Hank Strickland each picked up two hits in the game.

In Tuesday's contest, freshman hurler Wade Shepherd allowed only five Belmont Abbey hits, but found them all bunched together, and came out on the short end of a 4-0 score. The runs all came in one inning as Wildcat errors accented the hitting of the Crusader players. Shepherd gave up only one earned run in the contest, while the ’Cats committed four fielding mistakes. The Davidson nine once again outhit their opponents, as they collected six hits, but as in the Citadel contest, they could not put them together for a rally. Gordon Slade and Pat Reed collected five of the six Davidson hits, as Slade went three for four and Reed turned in a two for four performance. The team faced Marshall University this afternoon in trying to find their second win in 14 games.

Slade Leads SC Batting At .522
Although Davidson's team batting average lies near the bottom of the Southern Conference, sophomore third baseman Gordon Slade is leading the conference in hitting. The team leader in times at bat, hits and runs batted in, Slade leads the field with a .522 after 12 games. Richmond's Bill Kennedy and Furman's Tom Latham are tied in the second position with .406 marks. Slade has collected 24 hits in 46 trips to the plate, and has batted in eight runs. He has two doubles and a home run to his credit. The only other conference leader on the team is Hank Strickland, who leads the conference in doubles. Although he has collected only six hits in twelve games, four of them have been doubles.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Frolics! Now is the time to look your best at JACKSON CLEANERS
Just Beyond Coffee Cup Restaurant
Depot Street