Che Dauvidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN is a weekly publication by the students of Davidson College and is entered as second class mail at
Davidson, N. C.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1968

HHH For President

You’ve got four choices Nov. 5: Humphrey, Nixon, Wallace or stay home. The first is the best. Our endorsement of
Hubert Humphrey for President is not a qualified, “yes... but” kind of a thing. We back the man 100 per
cent.

Perhaps it would be fashionable at this point to proceed to hack the candidate up a bit for his shortcomings.
That’s what the New Left has been doing. Yes, the man does have his faults. He has unfortunately lingered too
long in the shadow of Lyndon Johnson, and some of the blood from a stupid war is, by association, on
his hands. But look at his opponents—and their faults. Next to Nixon and Wallace, on just about any issue, Humphrey
looks like an angel.

Some “new” liberals may be displeased at the moment, but they forget that Humphrey was a gut liberal before it
was popular to be one. His record he can stand on with pride. He’s been fighting for civil rights and
human dignity for years. Medicare, open housing, poverty programs, federal aid to education—he has championed these and more. He’s got
the experience to back him up—poor-boy-made-good to mayor of Minneapolis, Senate leader, vice president and party kingpin.

And the man can stand on his character. His critics say he tries to be all things to all people—and
they’re right. His exuberance is no put-on; the Politics of Joy is for real. Rarely has a man so thoroughly
sincere and decent sought the Presidency.

This year it is imperative that America affirm reason and progress. Without them we sink to bigotry and suspicion and
frustration. Hubert Humphrey is the great affirmation.

That Agnew

Relax. That muffled gagging noise you heard earlier this week was only Spiro T. Agnew putting his foot into his
mouth again. You must be used to it by now. Agnew’s been doing it for weeks.

This time it was during an interview, and a reporter asked Spiro why he hadn’t spent more time campaigning in
the slums. Simple, said he. “If you’ve seen one city slum, you’ve seen them all.” What was that about Richard
Nixon’s ability to judge men?

New Kind Of Catalogue

If Davidson officials want to think seriously about coeducation, they have at least partial first-hand evidence right under their noses.
All they have to do is visit some of the Free University classes on Tuesday night.

This rather recent innovation in Davidson education seems to have caught hold like a thirsty leech, at least if we
compare it with the usual reaction to educational innovations at Davidson. The fact is that many students, both at Davidson
and at Queens, had to be turned down for admission owing to lack of room.

For a newspaper which usually takes a rather skeptical view of student government, we must admit that this time they
have come up with something really worthwhile. Rich Cowart and his cohorts have done a good job of organizing and
financing the program and deserve a lot of credit.

Trite as it may seem by now, the idea of getting an education in a subject purely for the sake
of interest is tremendous. All too many Davidson students sign up for courses simply because they have to fill their
schedules with something. After looking at the Free University catalogue, we wonder if students ought not to pick more courses
from this catalogue.

Perhaps the motivation of Queens students is a bit more questionable. But we would be the last to criticize the
addition of almost 100 girls to the Davidson campus, even if it's only one night a week. After all, it
may give Davidson students a better idea of what it would be like to attend a coeducational institution.

The university also promotes a closer and more casual relationship between students and professors, by allowing them to relate on
a topic of avowed interest to both. No longer will students just be trying to get brownie points by associating
with professors. In some cases, such as the poverty seminar, the group may progress toward solving a few problems. In
other cases, the course may only promote a little understanding. And, Lord knows, if there’s anything we need more of,
it’s people who are interested in solving problems and promoting understanding.

Mid-Morning Snooze

Chapel is four yawns and a long snooze. Whatever the rationale behind compulsory chapel was in the beginning, it’s gone
now. The program’s value is just about nil, and any student—if you can wake him up—will tell you so.

Admittedly, we can see the virtue of having the student body together for a student body meeting or an ODK
or Who’s Nothing tapping. If we strain, we can even half-way convince ourselves that it’s good to be able to
provide a sizable audience for a Reynolds Lecturer or other important campus visitors. But what speaker enjoys looking at drooping
eyelids and open newspapers and speaking over whispers, snores and coughs? It’s gotten to the point now that no matter
who the speaker is, half the audience is tuned out before the introduction is over.

The trouble starts with the chapel programs themselves: most of them are incredibly dull. Sometimes somebody good like Terry Sanford
or Bill Sands slips in, as if unbeknownst to the planners, but that’s rare. Most of the time we are
forced to listen to the likes of that woman professor last week, who was interesting only when she crossed her
legs, and those Tar Heel political hacks the Young Republicans were fond of sponsoring two years ago.

In defense of the college chaplain, who arranges most of the programs, he has tried his best; the fact is,
we simply can’t get good people here on a regular basis. This year's new scheme—reducing the number of total chapels
in order to have more money to attract really good speakers—isn’t working. We may have more money to spend, but
chapel has stayed about the same.

Actually, chapel’s main reason for existence is gone now, for the college is now officially calling it “assembly” rather than
“chapel,” apparently giving up on the notion that the program is religion oriented. Chapel got started as a manifestation of
Davidson's religious commitment, and when the trustees abandoned vespers three years ago, they made it plain they wanted chapel juiced
up as a measure of compensation. But that hasn’t been done—it is probably impossible anyway—and we are left with an
empty shell.

If we have to retain the compulsory nature of the program, one of two things should be done: increase the
quality of the programs, or reduce the number. Otherwise, if chapel deteriorates much further, the whole student body may sleep
through 11 o’clock class some day.

Them Too

Davidson has been upstaged by the Boy Scouts. Last week Baden Powell’s courteous, cheerful, brave legions—certainly the last best refuge
for rags and tags and puppy-dog tails—saw the light and went coed. Naturally the move was not made without some
reservations on the part of national leaders, and initially at least the change will apply only at the Explorer Scout
level. But you can’t beat their logic. “We have known all along that boys were interested in girls,” they said.
Your turn, Davidson.

Negro Student Supports Reid

To The Editor:

Surprisingly, I find myself in complete agreement with Bob Reid and Messrs. LaPlante, Fuller and Ferguson. First, let's examine Reid’s
logic. It is very sound because it points out one of the basic faults of the white liberal. For too
long, whites have felt a deep guilt about the black man without caring about his white brothers. In the name
of brotherhood, whites have tried to force integration upon the black man when what was really needed was equality of
all men—black and white. The funny thing about it is that the poor white has been tricked into believing that
his lot is different from that of the blacks when really it is worse. The white upper class has too
long ignored the real needs of all the people. George Wallace may reveal that there is a large segment of
the population that hasn’t been touched by the progress of the past few years. In that sense, he and Stokely
Carmichael are soul brothers. What white liberals must make sure of is that the Wallace people and the blacks don't
one day get together and attack the ruling class. When that happens, it may be all over for the false
and unequal society in which we live.

Now for the “Dixie” problem. Why not play “Dixie” at Davidson games? Does not this song reflect the spirit of
the old South for which Jefferson Davis, Huey Long, and even George Wallace fought so long? Is not this song
the epitome of everything Davidson stands for? This school is an excellent replica of that long and honored past of
shame, brutality and hatred. Let’s not be hypocritical. When 0.6 per cent of the student body is black and when
conservatism and tradition predominate, there can be no mistaking the real spirit of a college. When so insignificant an act
as trying to integrate a barber shop causes an uproar or when the black community is so alien to the
students that a series about it has to appear in THE DAVIDSONIAN, things are pretty bad. So why not play
“Dixie.” It typifies everything else around here so well.

James Parks, ‘71
Davidson College

"JUST MOVIN’ IN A FEW BEDS FOR CHAPEL"

ROTC Once Again Target Of Heavy Student Assault

To The Editor:

There has traditionally been a lot of griping about ROTC at Davidson, and most of it has centered around the
bother and the dubious value of the “course.” However, except for a few vague questions about the compatibility of ROTC
with Davidson's avowed purpose of providing a liberal arts education, no one really seems to challenge the program on a
moral basis. It is easy to consider ROTC at Davidson as either an inconvenience or as a “good deal” for
sliding through your two years of patriotic duty in a safe, comfortable commission. It is rather hard to see the
morals involved in marching around and around and around on a drill field Tuesday afternoons. Nevertheless, as a participant of
ROTC a Davidson student is a participant.

Cox Flouts War; Drive Needs Aid

To The Editor: InIn the beginning, God created the heaven, the earth, and man, who promptly set out to destroy
all three creations through an activity for which there are several names, the most common of which is war. War
might be defined as cultural advancement by means other than nonviolent ones, but that doesn't really say anything. Human progress
might be measured in terms of how man has become more proficient at killing. Outlined below is an attempt at
such a measurement according to this definition.

Stage 1: One killed one’s fellow man by striking him with a sufficiently heavy, blunt object. One's motivation was simple:
either the fellow man had something one wanted, such as a female of the species, or it was a fun,
exciting way to structure one’s free time.

Stage 2: One killed by projecting a sharp missile into his fellow man's body, or the less refined version, by
manually entering a modified sharp missile into his gastrointestinal tract. The motivation remained the same, however.

Stage 3: Later, one eliminated his fellow man by the projection of a small, blunted missile into the victim's body.
This usually led to much bleeding (a waste of good blood) and to a permanent loss of consciousness on the
victim’s part.

Stage 4: All of the old-fashioned ways of killing are still around and fitfully used, but the fashionable thing now
is to vaporize thy fellow man en masse. This is the thing. It cannot be beat for efficiency and neatness.
Sometimes men are not concerned with neatness, in which case they pollute the air around the victim with nasty little
gamma, alpha, and beta particles which, if one is awfully unlucky, can make a completely new man out of the
victim. Motivation on the individual level the reader is quite familiar with now, but on a national level, it's called
defending the peace, of which there will be a lot after several nations have defended themselves right out of existence.

John Cox, '72
Davidson College

* * *

To The Editor:

Last spring, in an effort to attract more Negro applicants to Davidson, we and many other students organized a Negro
scholarship fund drive and collected two thousand dollars from the student body as the first scholarship in the fund. We
were operating then on the basis of information given to us by the director of admissions that the lack of
Negro students at Davidson was due to a lack of qualified Negro applicants.

This year we see our program in terms of two main goals: (1) To find a qualified high school senior
to accept the scholarship for the academic year 1969-1970; and (2) to continue the fund drive by contacting interested foundations
and friends of the college with the ultimate goal of establishing a five-year scholarship program.

To accomplish our first goal, we are initiating an intensive high school recruiting program. We have visited two predominantly Negro
high schools in the Charlotte area, met with their guidance counselors, and made plans to meet with some of their
students. Next Thursday, we will meet with a representative from the National Scholarship Service and Funds for Negro Students to
obtain from him a list of gifted Negro students from all over the country, to discuss with him our scholarship,
and to have him advertise it in NSSFNS materials.

This scholarship began as a student effort and to be successful must continue to have student support. Right now, this
support must take the form of Davidson students visiting Negro high schools and contacting Negro students. Anyone interested in doing
this, see either of us immediately.

Joe Murphy, ’69
Larry Stade, ‘69
Davidson College

* * *

To The Editor:

The following statement is from the entrance publication of the Baylor University College of Medicine entitled "Education of the Physician."

ROTC IN COLLEGE

"Because of the obligations incurred in such service, the prospective medical student is advised to avoid affiliation with a voluntary
ROTC program during his undergraduate college years."

Since approximately 20 percent of the student body will fall into the category of "prospective medical student," it seems only
fair that some provision be made to ensure a choice in this matter on the part of each student.

Charlie Baker, ‘69
Davidson College

* * *

To The Editor:

It seems that a new requirement for graduation has been put into effect at Davidson. Now the student is required
not only to take ROTC but also to conform to the Army's ideas on personal grooming habits, despite the fact
that he isn't even in the Army. Last Tuesday, I reluctantly marched myself out to the soccer field and found
that my rather longish hair was not to be tolerated. It appears that without an "adequate" haircut I will flunk
ROTC. A direct result of this is that the college will not allow me to graduate.

Nowhere in the Cadet SOP does it say that a student will be failed for refusing to cut his hair.
It does say that unless he does cut it, he will be given demerits and thus make it hard for
him to pass, but it doesn't say that he will be flunked. I am not in the Army; I am
enrolled (against my will) in a college course, and I don’t see that one certain course should be allowed to
require anything more of the student than does any other course, and no other course requires a neat haircut to
pass.

I am not at this time protesting the presence of the military on campus or even the fact that it
is compulsory, although these questions should be looked into. The issue here is whether or not an "inadequate" haircut alone
is grounds for failing a student. So it seems that if the ROTC’s present policy is upheld, I have a
great number of choices. It’s either get a haircut, grin and bear it, or fail ROTC and not be allowed
to graduate.

Jim Edwards, ‘71
Davidson College

* * *

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

At The Fox

The current price of breasts is $1.50. For that amount, the admission charge at the Fox Drive-In, you can see
a lot of skin. Go once to say you’ve been. Last weekend the bill of fare at the Fox was
“The Wife Swappers” and “Honey.” In brief, both were godawful cinema.

“The Wife Swappers” is a documentary sort of film. No dialogue, but a narrator supplies all the info, introduces the
members of a wife-swapping club, and throughout the film makes as many suggestive and double entendre comments as possible. There
is no plot. Rather, a single situation is presented that provides an opportunity for the display of as much skin
and sexually suggestive movement as possible. In “The Wife Swappers,” the wives are swapped; the camera swings from bedroom to
bedroom; the hostess for the party “sees that her guests have a good time” by stripping to her brief, brief
briefs and then by dancing suggestively around her living room. The film ends up with the murder of a drunken
guest who attacks one of the wives, against her wishes of course, so she stabs him with a pair of
scissors. The moral of the film: it was fun while it lasted.

In “Honey” the audience gets a look at a perverted ménage à trois: lesbian, good girl, and lover. The lesbian,
a carnival stripper, is attracted to Honey, the good girl turned stripper, who herself is attracted to Nick, “who wasn’t
carny.” A bit more “plot” in this one. Honey is drugged, photographed lewd in the nude, saved from blackmail by
the lesbian, and finally saved from death by her lover. The lesbian goes out and drowns herself.

The formula for a skinflick—one can be produced for about $25,000—seems to be this: fill each scene with as much
nudity as possible within a minimum of time with a minimum of plot. This is not meant to be a
condemnation of the skinflick, but it is meant as a condemnation of pointless and banal erotica. You can see flicks
that show just as much skin yet are artistically and emotionally rewarding: “Dear John,” for instance.

In his article “Dirty Books Can Stay” in the October issue of “Esquire,” Kenneth Tynan wrote: “The English distributors of
‘Fanny Hill’ were being prosecuted for obscenity, and the publishers’ lawyers asked me whether I would appear as a witness
for the defense. I said I'd be delighted. And inquired what form my evidence would take? They replied by pointing
out that under English law obscenity is permissible as long as it has redeeming artistic merits; I considered erotic titillation
a legitimate function of art, and therefore proposed to defend ‘Fanny Hill’ on the ground that it was expertly titillating.
The lawyers’ professional smiles froze on their faces.”

Even if you accept the defense of erotic titillation as a legitimate function of art, “The Wife Swappers” and “Honey”
are still merely obscene, mainly because neither is expertly titillating. What's the point of going to see a film that
shows skin and has nothing else going for it? It simply capitalizes on its audience's voyeuristic desires and need for
vicarious sex. The utter sterility of it all doesn’t satisfy. Viewing a sexploitation film for vicarious sex doesn’t satisfy. Upon
later reflection, it becomes a deadly dull waste.
