REPORT EXAMINES STUDENT COUNSELING (See Page Four) VOL. LVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1968 NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

SEIGLER ASKS FOR 100% BIDDING (See Page Three)

‘Cooperate, Graduate’ Joint Government Not Complete

When a speaker on the church and society takes five minutes extra in Thursday assembly, the result is usually an intense student hostility which shows up in hissing at the least. But Deacon Bill Currie had students laughing so hard at his going overtime that the hostility never developed. Currie, sports announcer for WSOC in Charlotte, was the speaker for the annual Who's Nothing tapping, into which 12 students were inducted. In the absence of the president of the group, who was noted as the only student ever inducted as a sophomore, the group tapped two more sophomores, in addition to the 10 juniors and seniors.

“Cooperate and graduate” was Currie’s advice to students as he incessantly poked fun at the church. “I wasn’t actually thrown out,” he explained. “I just quit.” But, since the ordination as a deacon is supposed to be unchangeable, he said he was still bothered by “the stain that lasts forever.”

After provoking a round of loud hissing by mentioning the University of North Carolina’s basketball team, he described Los Angeles, to which he had journeyed for the national basketball finals. Out there, you can “have anything you want. I mean it. Out there the Presbyterians drink liquor in front of each other.” Currie said he had entered a bar out there—“an educational experience. I believe in education, having flunked out of Catawba. I know it’s wrong, but I’m weak, and I had one myself.”

“I hate to mention this in these cloistered halls,” he said later, “but one of my friends drinks.”

By NORWOOD POLAND Staff Writer

Although the trend toward joint student-faculty government has been accelerating in the last year, neither SGA President Joe Murphy nor Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. sees complete joint government in the near future.

“We are definitely moving toward increased student-faculty government," said Burts. The fact that students and faculty are working together on several important committees shows we are well on the way, “and I welcome this trend,” he said.

Burts did not feel that Davidson is headed for anything like the Amherst College Council, though. At that school, a joint student-faculty-administration council holds jurisdiction over all social, housing, and activity policy. The council, half of whose members are students, is subject to review only by the president and trustees.

McCarthy Sweeps Choice ‘68 Vote At Davidson: Nixon, RFK Trail

By ROB KREHBIEL Staff Writer

Senator Eugene McCarthy (D.-Minn.) swept the Davidson campus in the Choice ‘68 presidential primary with 39.3 percent of the first choice and 20.6 percent of the second choice votes. McCarthy also won the national vote with 26.7 percent, to 19.9 percent for Sen. Robert Kennedy (D.-N. Y.) and 18.4 for Richard Nixon, former vice president under Eisenhower.

According to information from the Choice ‘68 coordinating committee which was received this afternoon, Nixon came in second on the Davidson campus, with 22.9 percent, and Kennedy third with 13.2 percent. A total of 672 students cast votes for first choice candidates.

On the question of military withdrawal from Vietnam, 65.8 percent were in favor of reduction, and an additional 12.8 of complete withdrawal. Only 40 students (6.0 percent) voted for increased action. On the question of bombing, 41.8 percent supported suspension, with cessation drawing a strong second at 30.0 percent. The overwhelming vote on the most effective means of combating the urban crisis went to job training and education, which together received 82.6 percent. Increased riot control measures received 61.1 percent.

New York Republican Governor Nelson Rockefeller trailed Kennedy closely in first place votes with 12.7 percent, followed by California Republican Governor Ronald Reagan with 3.6 percent, President Johnson with 2.8 and New York Mayor John Lindsay with 2.4. Kennedy took second in second choice voting with 17.5 percent, trailed closely by Rockefeller with 17.3. Nixon was fourth at 12.9. Rockefeller, however, jumped to first in third choice while Lindsay, Kennedy, Nixon, and Senator Charles Percy (R.-Ill.) all had over 10 percent.

In the national results, 62.6 percent called for immediate withdrawal or phased reduction in Vietnam, 79 percent voted for job training or education as the solution to the urban crisis, and 58 percent asked for permanent or temporary cessation of bombing.

Davidsonian Wins 3rd Hollins Award

For the third straight year, THE DAVIDSONIAN won honors in the Annual Southeastern College Newspaper Competitions sponsored by Hollins College. The award this year was an honorable mention in the field of the best non-daily newspaper. Each participating college was judged by submitting three consecutive issues of its school papers. These are then reviewed and graded by eight leading daily newspapers in the Southeast. The purpose of the award is to recognize the accomplishments of college newspapers and to encourage careers in the field of journalism. Other school newspapers in the state winning recognition were “The Daily Tar Heel” of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and “Old Gold And Black” of Wake Forest University.

Foreign Students Suggestions In Assembly

Richardson Scholars will discuss suggestions for improving the foreign student program in a voluntary assembly in the Morrison Room during chapel period on Monday. The discussion will attempt to answer questions growing out of a letter to the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN in this issue signed by 11 Richardson Scholars. The letter criticizes the current program. There already has been considerable reaction to the letter from Dr. John D. Kelton, faculty adviser to the foreign students, and from students who have worked with foreign students or plan to do so next year.

Finn Skagestad, Richardson Scholar from Norway who did not sign the letter, agreed with the purpose of the program but disagreed with much of what the letter says. “I particularly object to the contention that the program itself fails one of its purposes and to the division of Richardson Scholars into two main groups. I would consider Richardson Scholars either as one group or as 13," Skagestad said. Instead, he regards the academic aspect for a foreign student as very flexible. It gives the individual student much leeway.”

Kelton indicated that the reactions of the Richardson Scholars this year were fairly typical, based on what foreign students had felt in the past. “They are torn between what they want to do in the academic area and what they want to do in areas other than the academic,” he said. He said that each individual foreign student “must find a reasonable balance between the academic and non-academic.” Agreeing with Skagestad, he said that academic requirements for a Richardson Scholar are “flexible.”

Tom Hart, who worked with the foreign students this year, and Richard Howard, who will work with them next year, tended to agree with the letter. “I think there is a lot of truth in what is said because the attitude taken toward foreign students is wrong.” Hart said, indicating that the academic is overstressed. Howard agreed, saying, “I think they have a valid argument. They feel that they need to be treated a bit differently than a regular Davidson student." He suggested that each foreign student have a different professor as faculty adviser.

Paper Banquet Set For May 14

All students who have contributed to THE DAVIDSONIAN during the year are invited to attend the annual newspaper banquet next Tuesday evening at 6 in the Wildcat rooms of the College Union. On the program will be remarks by Pat Kelly, executive news editor of the Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel, and the awarding of the D. G. Martin Award to the outstanding freshman reporter. Staffers who plan to attend should sign up in the newspaper office by noon Monday.Over 1.2 million votes.

A REVIEW By DIRK GALBRAITH

The impression left by opening night of “The Boy Friend” was that everybody in Hodson Hall was having a good time, particularly those who were on stage. This take-off on the Twenties is successful in capturing the spirit of wacky nonsense associated with that period and at the same time making the audience feel a part of it all: those of us who were there, and it was a good house for a Wednesday night, were not laughing at the antics of the cast, we were laughing with them.

The orchestra, ably conducted by Grier Williams, the costuming, and most of all, the mannerisms of the actors, all contributed to the creation of a carefree, romantic atmosphere: it was good to get away from it all with Rupert Barber's company and their musical. “The Boy Friend,” which ends tomorrow night, is blessed with a successful job of casting. Kay Brown is a real stand-out as Madame Dubonnet, whom she portrays at her Frenchiest. In the other leads, Betty Butler and Tom Pope bring some fine vocal talent to the stage, though it is perhaps fortunate they are not called upon to do any particular amount of acting; Ken Scott plays the stuffy Percival well opposite Mrs. Brown.

Some of the best sustained comedy comes from the supporting roles, particularly the aggregation of jeunes filles, who are naturals as flappers, and Neal Martin as the hen-pecked Lord Brockhurst. The choreography is for the most part good, the high point of this being Carlin Fonvielle and Tony Orsbon doing the tango, a number which may have been worth the price of admission by itself. It was a pleasure to see so many pretty faces on the Hodson Hall stage at the same time, and this reviewer, for one, was inclined not to notice if they could all sing, dance and act, which is a lot to ask, anyway. Everybody was enjoying themselves, so it seemed like a good idea to sit back and do the same.

Several faculty members have seen such a centralized council as a measure to reduce red tape and clarify channels of authority. In addition, it would eliminate overlapping student and faculty committees. Five councils were recommended by the Student Life Subcommittee of the Blue Sky Committee as replacements for faculty committees last May. Each council would consist of an equal number of students and faculty. Among the five was a judicial council similar to the Regulations Court proposed under the CRAP Report. The subcommittee’s recommendation was released in advance of the rest of the student life report in order to secure action on the proposals, but President D. Grier Martin has never appointed the joint committee requested by the committee to work out details of the changes.

As for any action in this direction now, though, “The ink is hardly dry on the new student constitution,” Burts said. “Let's live a while under the new structures we've just established. We need to work better with what we have now.” Murphy agreed that the trend toward joint student-faculty government is continuing, but said it is not going to get much stronger. “We already have voting student members on six faculty committees of interest to students. Effective communication, though, is more important than voting, as decisions are usually unanimous,” Murphy said. “As long as the lines of communication are open, there isn’t really much need for a joint College Council.”

Murphy would, however, like to see the number of students on the faculty committees increased. Two of the six integrated committees have three student members; the rest have only one each. “When you're the only student on a faculty committee, it's hard to effectively present the students’ point of view without seeming overly forceful or critical,” Murphy said. “With two or three students on a committee, communication would be greatly improved.”

Students are now holding one position each on the Educational Policy Committee, Library Committee, Athletic Committee, and Religious Policy Committee; two positions on the Religious Program Committee; and three positions on the Student Life Committee. In addition, students are now permitted to attend faculty meetings to present proposals and defend them, and are called on by the trustees to explain proposals to them. Murphy said he would welcome more faculty members on student committees, “but since most of our committees are temporary and limited in scope, it is a question of whether faculty members would be sufficiently interested.”

Code Well Received, To Get More Study, CRAP Leaders Say

Members of the Committee on Rules and Punishments agreed this week that even though the trustees postponed action on the proposed Code of Responsibility, it was generally well received. Mike Carroll, Joe Murphy, and Dr. R. D. Kaylor also said that they expected the CRAP Report to come up for discussion when the trustees meet again within a few weeks. Carroll, CRAP committee chairman, expressed disappointment over the trustees' delay, but added that he thought it would not hurt the chances of approval. The trustees, meeting here last week, took the report under close study. But, according to Chairman Walter L. Lingle Jr., “it was the feeling of the majority of the members that they would like to study it further.” The board will probably take action on the report when it meets “sometime in the very near future” to vote on a resolution that would eliminate the requirement that the president of Davidson be a Presbyterian when elected.

The final version of the CRAP Report was not completed until two days before the board meeting, and Lingle emphasized at a press conference last Friday that board members had not had sufficient time to study it. (See CRAP, Page 6)

Richardson, Duke Open Tomorrow

Open dorms are scheduled for tomorrow night in Duke and Richardson, SGA Vice President Peter Hobbie reported to the Senate Tuesday night. The Senate discussed methods of control and the nature of the program itself, and then took up a project ceremony for recognition of the faculty's best teachers, but deferred the matter until next fall in order to get better publicity. All senators except SGA President Joe Murphy voted for the delay. The scheduled open dormitories would be the first in the school’s history. As scheduled, Richardson and Duke dormitories will be open from 7 to 10 p.m. tomorrow. The Residence Hall Council has posted guidelines for the three-hour period in each dormitory. Guidelines include leaving doors open while girls are in rooms, and cautioning all residents to be fully dressed during the open dorm period. The RHC has asked faculty members to visit the dorms.

The CRAP report was also discussed with reference to changes that would be necessary in the Constitution if the report were passed. It was decided that the main changes would be in the judicial section.

Fund Reaches $2100

The Negro Scholarship Fund has climbed to within $300 of its goal, according to Larry Slade, one of the chairmen of the drive. Slade said that students have given $2100 in gifts and pledges. A letter has been sent out, Slade said, to try to get those who have pledged money, but have not actually given it, to get their pledges in. By the time all pledges come in, Slade hopes that the goal of $2400 will be reached. Contributions from the faculty were mentioned as a possibility for raising the rest of the money should student contributions fall short of the full amount. This alternative will be discussed with Dr. W. G. Workman, initiator of the challenge, soon, Slade said. Slade also expressed hope that the organizers of the drive would be able to raise outside funds in order to keep the scholarship running for 10 years. Slade said that he hoped that the drive would not dry up and die as so many other Davidson drives have in the past. The program should be planned and carried out effectively, Slade said.