Redmen Next Opponent For ’Cats In Regionals

Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson Wildcats tackle the St. John’s Redmen in College Park, Md., in the first round of the NCAA championship basketball tourney. The ‘Cats, newly crowned Southern Conference Champions and currently riding a 12-game winning streak, beat St. John’s earlier this year 70-54 on the Redmen’s home court. The victor of this game will advance to the Eastern Regionals in Raleigh March 15-16. The winner there advances to the NCAA finals in Los Angeles the next weekend.

In a game before the Davidson-St. John’s game tomorrow, LaSalle faces Columbia. It is the winner of that game which will face the winner of the Davidson game in the first game of the Eastern Regionals next week in Raleigh. Also playing at Raleigh will be the winner of this weekend's ACC tournament. That team will play the winner of the St. Bonaventure-Boston College game. Then the winner of that game will face the other winner for a trip to Los Angeles for the national semi-finals.

For the Wildcats, the Southern Conference Tournament was a time of triumph in several ways. First, the ‘Cats were able to shatter an alleged tournament jinx by waltzing through all three games without difficulty. The victory also completed revenge on West Virginia, who had beaten the ‘Cats earlier in the year and last year in the tournament finals. Also, the ‘Cats were able to place all five starters on either the first or second All-Tournament teams. Although sophomore Mike Maloy was the only player to make the first team, Doug Cook, Dave Moser, Jerry Kroll, and Wayne Heckel were all named to the second team, and Rod Knowles was given honorable mention.

Going into tomorrow's game, the ‘Cats have five men averaging in double figures, four starters and sixth man Rodney Knowles. Only playmaker Dave Moser among the starters is averaging less, scoring right at nine points a game.

BENCH ROCKY CROSSWHITE

West Virginia, Huckel, and Skins

West Virginia did win two contests Saturday night. They had better-looking cheerleaders than we did, and their fans also put on a superior show, but I guess you can’t blame Johnny Durham, head Davidson cheerleader. He doesn’t have too much to work with. Too bad their basketball team didn’t follow their cheerleaders’ example. It might have been a better game. West Virginia lost in rebounds, foul shots, shooting percentage, total points, sportsmanship, and just about everything else. Oh, I forgot. They also won “the team with the most obnoxious fans” award.

When we were warming up before the game on Saturday night at the Mountaineer end of the court, the fans were jeering us about everything from our basketball ability to our haircuts. They even had some choice words for those of us who are substitutes. It gets pretty low when you have to jeer the skin team. Unbelievably, West Virginia put two players on the All-Tournament team, which is more than Davidson did. The men who choose the All-Tournament team must have been looking at the WVU cheerleaders or something else during the game on Saturday because Maloy was the only Davidson player to make the first team. He was joined by WVU’s Ron Williams and Carey Bailey, Richmond’s Kenny Foster, and Furman’s Dick Esleeck. Of course, the remaining four Davidson starters were placed on the second tournament team, but I think the Davidson five could have beaten any all-star team assembled in the Southern Conference.

Individually, Wayne Huckel deserves the ‘hard nose player” award for the tournament. Wayne was on the floor most of the three games and after WVU’s Wayne Porter pushed Huckel into the basket support, he came out with only a sore cheekbone and a rope burn. Porter would have won no popularity contests that night. Even on the television in West Virginia, he was denounced. Charlotte’s Bill Currie did his utmost to please the Mountaineer fans during the game but this incident was too much. After Huckel was pushed, the West Virginia color man said, “I don’t think Porter was really trying to hurt Huckel.” Currie immediately replied, “No, I don't think he was trying to hurt Wayne, I think he was trying to kill him.” Well anyway, during the awards ceremony, Wayne went over and shook Porter’s hand, which is more than I would have done.

Getting back to politics, I decided to get in the tradition of choosing post-season all-star teams by putting out my all-conference skin team. I only chose five players because to choose a second team would have seemed ironic to those receiving the places. At the guard positions, I put Ed “Possum” Harvard of WVU and our own Tony “Big-O” Orsbon. The Possum played in few games this year but was the spark plug on the WVU's skin team. At times he would get confused as to which basket to shoot at, but since he was a poor shooter (a 19.2 field goal percentage last year) it didn’t make much difference. Tony is probably the best player on the all-conference skin team if there is such a thing. He hasn’t shot 100% this season like he did last year because he didn’t shoot as often. Tony said he got rusty between shots this year.

As the forwards, I picked Garland Pinkston of George Washington and Kent Greenway of Richmond. Pinkston was a starter for GW this year but he played like a skin as did the rest of the GW starters. Pinkston was chosen over his companions because he sported a mustache for the entire season. Greenway earned his position on the All-Skin team by being one of the few players who fakes after he passes the ball. Also, I knew he was a great skin when in our game he recovered a ball going out of bounds and threw it back hitting a Davidson player. The ball bounced out of bounds again but typically Kent caught it as he stood outside the sideline.

Rounding out the team is Carl Erkenbrecker of Furman. Carl averaged 0.8 points last season and at times this year it seems as though he catches better with his feet than his hands. I know I have passed up some real good skins in my selections but a skin player isn’t made, he’s born that way. As acting skin coach, (something skins don’t really need) I will accept any challenges from any “B” league high school team in the nation.

(Staff Photos by McKellar)

CANNONBALL SLAM

Hearon readies for Wednesday's opener.

Talented Netters To Open Season

Davidson's Wildcat tennis team starts its season next Wednesday against East Stroudsburg Teachers College. The match will begin at 2 p.m. on the Davidson courts. The Wildcats finished last season with a 17-4 overall record and a Southern Conference championship. HeadingThe Wildcat attack will be George Berner, a Richardson Scholar who has played on the Davis Cup team. Berner will play number one singles and on the number one doubles team. Backing up Berner at the number two slot will be Sam Hatcher. Hatcher, captain of this year's team, will also join Berner on the top-seeded doubles team. Senior Dan Hearon will play number three singles. He will be followed by Woody Faulk in the fourth position. Faulk returns to the team after a year in Europe. Sophomore Randy Jones will play number five singles. Dave Jennings will be the sixth man in the Wildcat singles lineup. Jones and Hearon will play in the second-seeded doubles competition. Faulk and Jim Cantrell will play number three doubles.

ON THE BALL

The boardwork and scoring of sophomore Mike Maloy and the playmaking and defense of junior Dave Moser helped lift the Davidson Wildcats to their second Southern Conference crown in three years, as the ‘Cats trounced West Virginia Mountaineers 87-70 at the Charlotte Coliseum Saturday night. As it had been on the first two nights, the ‘Cat attack was awesome. Davidson piled up an insurmountable 47-24 lead at the half and coasted to victory. The win boosted Davidson's overall record to 22-4, while the Mountaineers ended the season with a 17-8 record. The ‘Cats play St. Johns tomorrow afternoon in College Park, Md., for the honor of advancing to the NCAA Eastern Regionals, slated for March 15-16 in Raleigh.

West Virginia last enjoyed the lead with 17:11 to play in the first half, when Mountaineer Bob Hummel's foul shot gave West Virginia a one-point advantage, 7-6. Then Davidson began to roll. Junior Wayne Huckel connected on a pair of jumpers and Maloy tapped one in, the ‘Cats racing ahead. By the time West Virginia All-Conference guard Ron Williams scored his first point, a foul shot with 8:50 in the half, Davidson had already taken a commanding 23-13 lead. ‘Cat point-man Dave Moser played Williams man-for-man throughout the game and limited the West Virginia ace to 5 for 18 from the floor and a total of 12 points. Even when Williams moved to the pivot, Moser’s tenacious defense kept him from getting good shots at the basket. Maloy, who was voted on the All-Tournament team and was named the tourney’s outstanding player, did a fantastic job on the boards. In the first half, he outrebounded the entire West Virginia team 13-11.

In the semifinal game Friday night, Davidson had clipped Furman 79-63. Jerry Kroll led the ‘Cats with 22 points while Doug Cook added 17. For the tournament, Davidson simply outclassed the rest of the field, averaging 91 points per game in the three games while limiting their opponents to 67. The ‘Cats shot 56.2 percent from the floor for the three games.

Baseball squad hopes to zero in on a successful season.

Improved Batcats To Begin Schedule Against Pfeiffer

By BILL TRAXLER
Sports Writer

Wildcat baseball gets underway next Friday when Davidson hosts Pfeiffer College at 2 p.m. Head Coach Tom Stevens is hopeful that this season's team will be much stronger than last year's. Last season the ‘Cats were able to muster only three wins over a 23-game schedule. That team was weak in nearly all departments. The ‘Cats had only three pitchers, inconsistent hitting, and poor field support. This year the hitting is greatly improved. Freshmen will be permitted to play varsity baseball for the first time this year. Coach Bob Brown has taken over the coaching duties during the spring workouts, and he is shaping the team into a solid one. The players are conditioning more than they have for past seasons. The Wildcats will be two men deep at nearly every position this year. Both Hank Strickland and Mike Kelly are talented catchers and strong hitters. They are also valuable to the team for their ability to play several positions. Strickland plays a good first base position and it will be easy for him to alternate with Kelly behind the plate in doubleheaders. Freshmen Mark Baker and Cliff Patterson are both quick second basemen. Stu Brown returns to shortstop. Gordon Slade brings experience to the third base slot. Frank Murphy, Smith, Cooper Brantley, Jack Caldwell, and Bob Niebauer will compete for the outfield positions. Ed Terry, Bob Pickens, and Mackey Reavis will carry the pitching chores this season.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI, SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop

Where’s the best place in town to eat?

THE WILDCAT DEN

We specialize in:
Pizza
Delicatessen Sandwiches
BIG Hamburgers
“Specials” different each day
Cheese Cake
Carry-out Orders
Bulk Quantities
Quick, efficient service
In a hurry? Call ahead so we can have your dinner waiting when you arrive.
See you at THE WILDCAT DEN!

For men who want to be where the action is, Very racy. Very masculine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the complete array of ENGLISH LEATHER Men's toiletries, a product of MEM COMPANY, INC., MORRISIAIR, N.J.

If you don’t agree that business destroys individuality, maybe it's because you're an individual.

There’s certain campus talk that claims individuality is dead in the business world. That big business is a big brother destroying initiative. But freedom of thought and action, when backed with reason and conviction’s courage, will keep and nurture individuality whatever the scene: in the arts, the sciences, and in business. Scoffers to the contrary, the red corpuscles of individuality pay off. No mistake. Encouraging individuality rather than suppressing it is policy in a business like Western Electric—where we make and provide things Bell telephone companies need. Because communications are changing fast, these needs are great and diverse. Being involved with a system that helps keep people in touch, lets doctors send cardiograms across the country for quick analysis, helps transmit news instantly, is demanding. Demanding of individuals. If your ambition is strong and your abilities commensurate, you'll never be truly happy with the status quo. You'll seek ways to change it and—wonderful feeling!—some of them will work. Could be at Western Electric.

Western Electric
MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM