6 Page Six May 10, 1968

Campus Comment

Flaws Hinder Honor System

In response to the question, “How do you think the Honor System could be made more effective?” these students said:

Jerry Withrow, sophomore: By not having any punishments that are overly strict, the effectiveness of the honor system would be
improved. As it stands now, few students will turn in their classmates because they feel the punishments are far too
rigorous for the offenses.

Randy Bridges, junior: The Honor system's effectiveness can best be improved on the college admissions level. The college should get
students who put more value in honor.

Duncan Postma, freshman: The honor system needs to be impressed more upon incoming students. All students here signed the statement
to obey the honor system, and if they find that they can no longer agree with it they should not
remain at Davidson.

Ken France, freshman: The professors need to explain what they expect of the students. This is especially true in lab
where you are supposed to help your partner, but are not supposed to help him with the answers. In such
a situation, it is very difficult to keep from inadvertently breaking the honor system.

ROTC AT DAVIDSON

Required Status Continues Despite Changed Form

By JIM COOLEY
Associate Editor

With approval last week by the Board of Trustees of the recommendation of their Education Committee, the continued status of
ROTC as a required course at Davidson was assured. The program will continue to be organized along the same lines
as previously, although the format will be altered to meet requirements of the new curriculum.

The only basic change is the addition of another exemption—a statement by entering freshmen’s parents—to those already existing which allow
waiving the requirements concerning ROTC. The only question remaining concerns the acceptance of the revision by the Department of Defense.
The school’s contract will have to be amended to include the exemption. It is hoped that the contract will not
need to be renegotiated. In that event, the ROTC program must continue as presently organized for another year because the
contract calls for a year’s notice before renegotiation.

Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, indicated that he thought the Department of Defense would

Board Approves Nine Promotions

The Board of Trustees approved the promotion in rank of nine faculty members at its May 3 meeting, said Dean
of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston this morning. The appointments are made by the trustees on the recommendation of the dean
of faculty.

Appointed to the rank of professor were Dr. Winfred P. Minter in political science and Dr. Thomas Q. Pinkerton in
German. Dr. R. David Kaylor, Bible and religion; Dr. L. Richardson King, mathematics; Dr. Alexander J. McKelway, Bible and religion;
Dr. David F. Richey, music; and Dr. Thomas A. Williams, French, were all raised to the rank of associate professor.
The trustees appointed Charles L. Cornwell in English and Paul C. Fisher in German to the rank of assistant professor.

Under the college's charter, the trustees are given the sole power to hire, fire and promote faculty members, but in
practice they rarely fail to follow the recommendations of the dean of faculty.

Fraternities Choose 1968-69 Presidents

By BILL WARREN
Staff Writer

By now, 12 fraternities have elected their presidents for the upcoming year. The future president of Alpha Tau Omega is
Garee Thomas, a rising senior from Jacksonville, Fla. Thomas is a member of the Honor Court and Alpha Epsilon Delta,
the national honorary pre-medical fraternity, and worked this year in the Mooresville hospital.

Beta Theta Pi has elected Bud Cousar from Columbia, S.C., as its new president. Cousar is chairman of the Court
of Appeals, served this year on the Constitution Revision Committee, and was first vice-president of the Student Council.

Larry Slade of Jacksonville, Fla., is the new president of Kappa Alpha. Slade was the rush chairman last year, will
be a freshman adviser next year, and heads the Challenge program.

The new president of Kappa Sigma is Martin Brackett. Brackett headed the printing and selling of the sports programs this
year, and was a member of the football team until he had a leg injury which caused him to drop
out of school for a year.

The head of Phi Delta Theta next year will be Kerry Keith from Alexandria, Va. Keith is a member of
the wrestling team, is fullback on the football team, and threw the javelin.

Phi Gamma Delta elected Ed Childs, from Wadesboro, for their next president. Childs has played football and is a biology
major.

Sam Tallman is the new president of Pi Kappa Alpha. Tallman is the manager of the swimming team and is
from Richmond, Va.

The Pi Kappa Phi’s have elected Bob Reid as their new president. Reid, now associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, has
served as managing editor and sports editor, and is from Arden.

Mike Johnson is the next president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Johnson works at the Union desk and is business manager
of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He is from Clinton, S.C.

The new president of the Sigma Chi's is Dave Clemmons from Nashville, Tenn. Clemmons, a transfer from Vanderbilt, was rush
chairman this year, a hall counselor, and a member of the Committee on Rules and Punishments.

The Sigma Nu's have elected Dale Vash from Tampa, Fla., for their next president. Vash is a member of Phi
Eta Sigma, lettered in tennis last year, and is an English major.

The president of Sigma Phi Epsilon for the next year is Randy Phillips from Winston-Salem. Phillips was a member of
the cross country team, and was its captain last year. He is a member of the faculty Student Life Committee.

DAVIDSONIAN Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOE FRIEBELE
BOB McKELLAR
GEORGE ROBINSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN BOLINGER

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN
NAT HEYWARD
DICK POOLE
CULLUM ROGERS

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week: George Steele, Biff Finv, Lewis Lavine, Allen Lewis, Ed Shoaf, Jule Young, Dirk Galbraith, Danny Coltrane, Tom
Vernon, Rob Krehbiel, David Cook, Richard Hinson, Bobby Ambrose, Hugh Marr, Reif Kessler, Don Hoyt and Norwood Poland.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

OPEN HOUSE

The following homes will be open to students Sunday night at 8:
Abbott 4497 S. Main
Kelton 119 Lorimerand show the faculty that students are ready to take such responsibility.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6581

NAME CARDS PRINTED for GRADUATION
100 — $4.00
Davidson Printing
Davidson, N. C.

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
375-9723
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 26202

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

be "receptive to any reasonable request. This recommendation," he added, "offers the possibility of continuing a viable program at Davidson
under proper implementation of the exemption policy."

The amount of academic credit granted under the program, despite recommendations by the Blue Sky Committee, remains unchanged. Under the
new curriculum, one course credit will be given for the basic program, and two for the advanced program. Students who
take the advanced program will take 33 courses during their four years while non-ROTC students will take only 32. This
puts Davidson at almost the national average for the amount of credit given to ROTC, according to Outlaw.

If the amendment to the contract is approved, next year's ROTC schedule will call for drill in the fall and
spring terms and for classes in all three terms. There will be no drill during the winter term. Freshmen and
sophomores will attend drill during both the fall and the spring, regardless of when they take their class work. Freshmen
will attend class one hour each week during all three terms. Sophomores will go to class twice a week for
consecutive terms, either fall and winter or winter and spring. Freshmen and sophomores, through special arrangement with the physical education
department, will take physical education during the same block of class time as ROTC.

By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Winners of awards and scholarships from the various departments were recognized in chapel Tuesday. Among the recipients were Norwood Poland,
Henry Wilmer, and Edward Winslow, French; Wade Shepherd, Physics; Neal Martin, senior drama award; and Bill Graham, the award for
the best performance in a major production. Named best varsity debater was Fletcher Hartsell. Freshman Gray Mason received a citation
for outstanding novice debating. Winning the Stowe Scholarship for outstanding football and scholastic achievement was Sandy Brenneman, while last year's
winner Lowell Bryan was also recognized.

Recipients of awards from the economics department included Lewis Lavine and Tom Poston, the Feister Economics Award, and Steve Howell,
a citation for outstanding work from The Wall Street Journal. George Purvis won the D. H. Howard Chemistry Award while
Bayard Miller received the Gladstone Memorial Award.

SORRY, THIS BOOK, NOT THAT ONE
French Professor J. O. Embry confuses awards.

Professors Bestow Honors On High-Ranking Students

On Campus
Max Shulman

(By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” “Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

FROM THE HALLS OF PROTOZOA

This column, normally a treasure house of twinkly quips and slapdash japery, has now been appearing in your campus newspaper
for fourteen years, and if I have learned one thing in these fourteen long years, it is not to try
to be funny in the last column of the semester. With final exams looming obscenely close, you don’t want jokes;
you want help. So today, foregoing levity, I give you a quick cram course in the subject you are all
flunking. I refer, of course, to biology.

Biology is divided into several phyla, or classes. First is the protozoa, or one-celled animal. Protozoa can be taught simple
things like bringing in the newspaper, but when shopping for pets it is best to look for animals with at
least two cells, or even four if your yard has a fence around it.

Another popular class of animals is the porifera—a shadowy category that borders often on the vegetable. Take, for example, the
sponge. The sponge is definitely an animal. The washcloth, on the other hand, is definitely not.

Next we come to the arthropoda, or insects. Most people find insects unattractive, but actually there is exquisite beauty in
the insect world if you trouble to look. Take, for instance, the lovely insect poems of William Cullen Sigafoos—Tumbling Along
with the Tumbling Tumblebug and Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid and Gnats My Mother Caught Me. Mr. Sigafoos, alas, has been
inactive since the invention of DDT.

Our next category is the mollusca—lobsters, shrimp, and the like. Lobsters are generally found under rocky projections on the ocean
bottom. Shrimps are generally found in a circle around a small bowl containing cocktail sauce.

Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are generally found at any counter where Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades are sold. I
mention Personna Blades because the makers of Personna Blades pay me to write this column, and they are inclined to
get edgy if I neglect to mention their product. Some get double edgy and some single, for Personna Blades come
both in double edge style and Injector style. Mind you, it is no burden for me to mention Personna, for
it is a blade that shaves quickly and cleanly, slickly and keenly, scratchlessly and matchlessly. It is a distinct pleasure
to shave with Personna Blades and to write about them but sometimes, I confess, I find it difficult to work
the commercial into a column. Some years ago, for example, I had the devil's own time working a Personna plug
into a column about Alexander the Great. The way I finally managed it was to have Alexander say to the
Oracle at Delphi, “Oracle, I have tasted all the world’s pleasures, yet I am not content. Somehow I know there
is a joy I have missed.” To which the Oracle replied, “Yes, Alexander, there is such a joy—namely Personna Blades—but,
alas for you, they will not be invented for another 2500 years.” Whereupon Alexander fell into such a fit of
weeping that Zeus finally took pity and turned him into a hydrant...

Well sir, there is no question I sold a lot of Personnas with this ingenious commercial, but the gang down
at the American Academy of Arts and Letters gave me a mighty razzing, you may be sure.

But I digress. Back to biology and the most advanced phylum of all—the chordata, or vertebrates. There are two kinds
of vertebrates: those with vertical backbones and those with horizontal. Generally it is easy to tell them apart. A fish,
for instance, has a horizontal backbone, and a man has a vertical backbone. But what if you run into a
fish that swims upright or a man who never gets out of the sack? How do you tell them apart?
Science struggled with this sticky question for years before Sigafoos of M.I.T. came up with his brilliant solution: offer the
creature a pack of Personna Blades. If it is a fish, it will refuse. If it is homo sapiens, it
will accept—and the more sapient, the quicker.

And now you know biology. And now, for the fourteenth time, aloha.

The makers of Personna, The Electro-Coated blade, have enjoyed bringing you another year of Old Max. From us too, aloha.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

AFTER SHAVE from $2.50
COLOGNE from $3.00
SWANK Inc.-Sole Distributor

As an alternate fragrance, try JADE EAST or Jade East CORAL

COLLEGE STUDENTS SUMMER EMPLOYMENT

Our better men last year averaged over $170.00 weekly. This year’s opportunity is even greater. Participate in competition for scholarship
awards up to $3,000. Win Ford Station Wagon, Boston Whaler, Full-length Mink Coat, Other Valuable Awards.

MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Qualified men will be given opportunity to develop management skills in sales and sales training, office procedures, and personnel control.

NO EXPERIENCE
Requirements: Over 18, neat appearance, cooperative attitude, above average intelligence. Transportation furnished.

IMMEDIATE INTERVIEWS
For personal interview call Mr. Bond, 376-1501, 9:00 to 2:00.

$500 MONTHLY SALARY
