Page Four, May 17, 1968

The Davidsonian

Open Dorms ‘Successful’

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

The Residence Hall Council termed last weekend's experiment in open dorms a "quiet success," at a meeting Wednesday night. According to chairman Peter Hobbie, 53 students participated in the program—26 in Duke and 27 in Richardson, the two participating dorms. Several faculty members also visited the dorms during open hours.

The Council now plans to revise the Residence Hall Association (RHA) Constitution in several areas during the summer. One of the questions to be answered by the revision will be whether a student should be required to clean up his room even if he does not have a date, and does not wish to participate in the program. This question arose because of a lack of participation in cleaning up the dorms for last weekend's experiment.

Council member C. L. Cheshire commented, "Some people might think that this was a Mickey Mouse attempt at having open dorms, but we have to have something to start with before we can expand the program." He added that open dorms would begin next year as soon as the RHA Council was organized. Any dorm wishing to have an open house would apply to the Council.

The Council expressed its appreciation for the efforts of Dean of Students Richard C. Burts and Director of Student Housing Mrs. Peter Nicholls. "They have been extremely helpful in setting up this experiment," said Hobbie.

Foreign Students Critical

The letter to the editor printed in last week's DAVIDSONIAN was the main topic of discussion Monday at a coffee hour for the Richardson Scholars. The letter, signed by all of the foreign students, listed criticisms of the Richardson Scholars program. Michael Peltenburg, Richardson Scholar from Switzerland, said he hoped that the coffee hour would serve as a means of clarifying the issues.

The most outspoken of the scholars was Lennart Voog from Sweden. His criticisms of the program differed somewhat from those mentioned in the letter, however, he said that he thought that changes needed to be made in the program. Voog's major criticism was aimed at some of the courses Richardson Scholars take. He regarded it as a "waste of time" for him to take such courses as American literature and history because he did not have the foundation or background to fully understand the course.

Q&C REVIEWED

Mediocre Picture

A REVIEW By ASHTON TRICE

The new edition of the Quips and Cranks is out: oh boy! This version seems to have had an identical twin brother that appeared two years ago, and it is at most as interesting as its predecessor.

I found this book to be exactly what I imagined it would be: some sort of archetypal yearbook containing every cliché known to editors. The photography is adequate as a whole, but I seem to have seen many of them before in THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Wildcat Handbook, or in last year’s Q&C. It would seem that a yearbook is supposed to be a work that offers an approach to the college and not be just a rehash of things seen before, so why not at least give us something new to look at?

There is what seems to me to be a very beautiful picture on page 177 (in the section with the really neat heading ‘Jocks’) and I thought I would point it out for those who may have decided to go that far back in the book. It is really a sad state of affairs when only one or two pictures and absolutely no copy in the yearbook stand out in a favorable light.

Well, at least there wasn't anything gross in the book. It was really clean, very Presbyterian. Even the liquor bottles and beer cans were made to blend into the background. The return to formal portraits for the seniors, the superfluous copy which had really no insights into the Davidson Dilemma, and the general lack of good, original photography—and I mean that I'm tired of seeing Campus Comment 100%? Maybe.

When asked the question, “Do you think Davidson fraternities should move to 100 percent affiliation?” these students answered:

Terriberry, freshman: It’s a great idea, but I'm afraid it wouldn't work. The fraternity system by its nature is both social and exclusive. I think the extended rush system, as I've seen it working, accomplishes the goal of allowing fraternity association by everyone without destroying the exclusiveness of the fraternities.

George Robinson, sophomore: From the standpoint of the freshman and from a personal view, I am partial to a 100 percent bidding plan. However, one must also realize that 100 percent would also cause many feelings to be hurt as various freshmen were pushed into corners by unwilling fraternities. I personally feel that everyone has a place, but in reality it wouldn't work.

John Rowe, sophomore: Since we have only had the extended rush system for one year, we should try it at least for one more rush period. It seems to me that it is presently working out in a way which pleases the fraternities, the administration, and those who are in the present affiliation system.

George Shaw, senior: The 100 percent plan is essentially a good idea. But I'm not sure how popular it would be with the faculty or the students. Such a proposition would make it easier on those who would otherwise feel badly about not receiving a bid.

(By Jule Young, Staff Writer; Staff Photos by Weems)

Retiring Bursar McGill: Students Still The Same

The type of person attending Davidson has not changed significantly in the last half century, according to M. W. McGill, retiring bursar and assistant treasurer. McGill has been associated with Davidson for 46 years. During this time he has held positions of business manager of the athletic association, bursar, and assistant treasurer. McGill started his career at Davidson following graduation in 1922 as the administrator of a fund campaign to rebuild Chambers Building.

McGill said that the primary change in the make-up of the student body was the decreasing number of minister’s sons and pre-ministerial students. "Human nature being what it is," he said, "I doubt if the boys here have changed much," said McGill. "We had to find our devilment here on campus," said McGill of his student days. "There were very few cars, so we went everywhere by train... students attended a local movie regularly." He reminisced on the days when the Davidson football teams played North Carolina and Virginia. "At that time the field was a bowl, with mostly wooden bleachers going all the way around the field. It was always full, and we had very respectable gate receipts."

Only five of the buildings on campus were here when McGill first came.

DGM Award For Top Reporting

Dick Anderson was given the D. Grier Martin award for theOutstanding new writer at the annual DAVIDSON Book... bleary-eyed students at Hattie's, and close-ups of two anonymous mouths kissing and cloudy pictures of our favorite deans convulsed in laughter and looking ludicrous—all these added up to a disappointment. I certainly hope that next year's editors will take a hard look at the two editions and make a decision about next year’s annual that will make it more than merely a mediocre picture book.

IAN banquet Tuesday. The award, which is accompanied by a $25 check, was presented by former Editor Sam Boyte. In presenting the award Boyte cited Anderson's hard work as a freshman reporter. Pat Kelly, executive editor of the Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel, gave an after-dinner speech on the “Role of the Newspaper Today.” After starting with a few jokes which drew mixed reactions, Kelly named the three functions of the newspaper: factual reporting, communication, and service. The newspaper, Kelly said, provides “that check on the government which no constitution can provide.” By reporting the facts about elected officials, judges, and others, the newspaper looks out for the interests of the “little man,” he said. Kelly added that the publicity given riots in the press was not an important cause of riots. He said that it was extremely important that the newspapers cover the riots thoroughly in order to prevent the spread of unfounded rumors. “More often than not,” Kelly said, “the rumors are worse than anything reported in the papers.”

A REVIEW By BOB DUNHAM

Ashton Trice’s review of the new annual is out; oh boy! This review seems to be identical to most reviews of most typical annuals, and it is at most as interesting as its predecessors. I found this review to be exactly what I imagined it would be: some sort of archetypical review containing every cliché known to the writer. But the review is inadequate as a whole, and since I have seen most of the arguments before, I'd like to take an opposing viewpoint. I found the new Quips and Cranks to be a very good yearbook. It was, as the editor had promised, useful as a reference text, and yet also quite creative. I don’t know what Mr. Trice’s concept of a good picture is—perhaps he wants the beer cans in focus with the people blending into the background—but I found some excellent photography in the new annual. I liked the informal pictures last year, too, but if the editors had merely reproduced another annual of that type, it would have aroused even more gripes. I thought the copy was anything but superfluous. I suggest that Mr. Trice reread the copy—maybe he was reading the wrong annual. I found it creative and questioning, rather than a repetition of often-used clichés. The major disappointment in the annual was the failure on the editors’ part to capture the spirit of change that swept the campus this year. The church photograph and a few pieces of copy were all that came close to its representation. But students at Hattie's, laughing deans, flies in the library, and freshmen beanies are an integral part of life at Davidson. To delete them from its annual would be impractical and non-Davidson. In the production of the annual, Kirk Reed and his staff have renovated and innovated, and the result is something new: practical artistry.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
DICK POOLE
CULLUM ROGERS

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOE FRIEBELE
BOB McKELBAR
GEORGE ROBINSON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week:
Biff Fine, Lewis Lavine, Ed Hay, Norwood Poland, Richard Hinson, Allen Lewis, Hugh Marr, Paul Rowland, Danny Coltrane, Jule Young, Danny White, Bobby Ambrose, Gary Sigmon, and Donny Hoyt.

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 percent discount on pipe (only) purchases.

FABULOUS DINING

The major disappointment in the annual was the failure on the editors’ part to capture the spirit of change that swept the campus this year. The church photograph and a few pieces of copy were all that came close to its representation. But students at Hattie's, laughing deans, flies in the library, and freshmen beanies are an integral part of life at Davidson. To delete them from its annual would be impractical and non-Davidson. In the production of the annual, Kirk Reed and his staff have renovated and innovated, and the result is something new: practical artistry.

375-9723
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

International Cuisine

OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

Still standing are Oak and Elm Row, Phi and Eu Hall, and the Guest House. He said that he believes that Davidson is doing a good job for the students. “I've seen boys I really wondered about go on to become successes.” McGill declined to give any personal opinions on the current changes in the school curriculum and student life, pointing out that age changes one’s attitudes toward situations.

“Less Dip” Slated For Orientation

“Less dip and more substance” is the guiding principle for next year's freshman orientation, said John Gilmore and Larry Slade, co-freshman advisers. Gilmore and Slade said an attempt will be made to cut down on the amount of speech-making; more stress will then be placed on working with hall counselors and in taking advantage of hall discussions. As in past years, the YMCA Freshman Camp will operate as a complement to orientation, giving freshmen a chance to meet each other and student leaders in an informal atmosphere. The format of the freshman camp will remain essentially the same, though it will begin a day earlier than usual so that the students will return in time for a banquet in which welcoming speeches will be given. In an attempt to make orientation something meaningful, Slade and Gilmore are “going to try to take advantage of the freshmen’s early enthusiasm and interest,” Gilmore said. “We're very idealistic about instilling in the freshmen pride in and spirit for their college and their class. Though this might become a little discouraging later on, we're going to enter this thing with as much enthusiasm as possible,” he said.

Olds Cutlass S

The ‘S’ stands for... Drive a youngmobile at your nearest Olds dealer.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

ASSISTANT TREASURER McGILL “I doubt if the boys have changed much...”

Union Door Open For Rest Of Year

The College Union will remain open 24 hours a day for the rest of the school year, according to Sam Boyte, student assistant to the Union director. Coffee and donuts will be available for free beginning Tuesday night, he said. In addition, movies are scheduled for most nights during the period. “The Chapman Report” will run for the last time tonight. Next week, “Wild Thing” will alternate with “Invisible Horror.” “Girl in a Bikini” is scheduled for the last week of exams. All movies begin at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room. TRAWF, which apparently had become a Union tradition, may not continue or may be replaced, Boyte said. Whether funds are available for it is not yet known, he explained. THE DAVIDSONIAN suggested in an editorial two weeks ago that the Union be kept open all night as a place for students to study, and as a way to make life for students “a little more bearable.”

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

from Oldsmobile
Drive a youngmobile at your nearest Olds dealer.