A TAR HEEL LAUDS LEFTY (See Page Three) VOL. LVII Constitution Over Hurdle By GEORGE ALLEN News Editor The Student
Life Committee formally approved and unanimously recommended Hooker Announces New Staff Four rising juniors head the new 1968-69 DAVIDSONIAN staff
mustered today by new Editor-in-Chief Peebles Holmes. Franklin Anderson, Bob Dunham, Robert Pyatt, David Sweatt, and the rest of the
new staff put out their first issue today. Anderson takes the post of managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN's news pages,
while Sweatt becomes managing editor of the editorial and features paper. Dunham is the new sports editor, and Pyatt is
associate editor in charge of the copy desk. Other associate editors are Jim Conley, Charles McEwen, Bob Rea, and Jeff
Williams, all seniors. Freshman, George Allen takes over as news editor, and two other rising sophomores, Dick Anderson and John
Bollinger, are the new assistant news editors. Rising senior Rocky Crosswhite will continue as assistant sports editor, and rising junior
Pete Pindar will take over as copy editor. the new SGA constitution to the faculty Tuesday with the stipulation of
two major changes to be made in the document. The two reservations requested by the committee are that the Faculty
be given the right to reverse any decisions made by the Senate and that the elections will be conducted within
the new SGA constitution. The second stipulation, however, will not require any substantial change in procedure, for the Senate will
still have nearly complete control over the SGA budget. Faculty approval of the two reservations may mean revision of the
constitution to make it conform to the reservations. Bylaws are also being revised by the Constitution Revision Committee, according to
Senior Mike Bates, chairman of the committee. Bates said that the bylaws are nearing completion and will be presented to
the Senate shortly after it is sworn in. Three articles, dealing mainly with elections, have already been approved by the
Student Council. Bates felt that one of the most important aspects of the new bylaws is the opportunity that they
provide for the formation of committees within the SGA. Because of the size of the Senate, most of its work
is expected to be done in committees, he explained.

UNDER THE SPREADING ACORN TREE The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N.C., 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1968 CRA TRUSTEE LIKES THE DAVIDSONIAN (See Page Two) NUMBER TWENTY-TWO Presentation Slated After
Break, Chairman Ex The Davidson student lies. Spring came early up to the full treatment, and look the part this
year — one day, to be exact, owl the most sun-phobic of the sun-worshipers. This early worshipper, however, was not
quite shaded even under a tree. (Staff Photo by By JOHN WILLIAMS Associate Editor The Constitution Committee is planning to
withhold formal information and also report until the new Senate is sworn in, according to Committee Chairman Mike Charnell said
Wednesday. Charnell said the report will probably be presented formally to the new student Senate, the faculty, and the trustees
at their spring meeting. Senate Election Date Reset For Middle Of Greek Week By NORWOOD POLAND Staff Writer Senate and
cheerleader elections have been rescheduled for Wednesday, April 2, rather than Monday. The elections were declared invalid, according to Elections
Council Chairman Bruce Welty, because of the insufficient notice of the unusual Monday election date, Welty explained. Elections so far
have been on Wednesdays. Fraternity Housing Fee Necessary, Currie Says By DAVID SWEATT Managing Editor Interfraternity Council representatives came away
from a Tuesday night meeting with College Treasurer Robert Currie feeling that the fraternity housing fee is a good deal
for fraternities. Currie dispelled visions of great profit-running on the part of the college through the controversial fee. Currie explained
that the fee must be regarded as rent to the fraternity court and not as payment for ownership of the
buildings. The whole cost of the Patterson Fraternity Court at its construction in 1948 was $800,000, according to Currie. Of
this amount, Dr. W. S. Patterson contributed $50,000, and $420,000 came from college endowment funds, said Currie. This investment of
endowment funds in its own physical plant is unusual, according to Currie, and is something he hopes will not be
repeated. Currie said he regards the unprecedented action as a demonstration of great confidence in the fraternity system on the
part of the trustees. The trustees made the investment on the explicit projection of an annual return of 4 percent,
the rate which the endowment was earning in 1948, said Currie. At 4 percent, the return per year on the
original investment would be $32,000. Depreciation was set at $19,000 per year. This figure is based on a life expectancy
of 40 years for the physical plant. Maintenance and insurance were set at a combined total of $20,000 per year.
The per annum total of these expenses is $71,000. This is the amount the college should be collecting every year
to break even. Currie compared this with the amount the college is actually taking in per year. This year about
$70,000 has been involved in fraternity housing fees. Currie said that in the past, the fees have amounted to less
than this. "I thought we gave plenty of notice," Welty recalled. "We posted, in articles in THE DAVIDSONIAN, and by
telling the candidates personally, regarding the election being moved up." Welty said that some candidates filed complaints after the elections
were completed and the vote counted. There was no violation of the constitution or bylaws, however, since the bylaws now
place the changing of dates by the Elections Council. As a result of the delay, Welty said, "It will be
a close run to get the Senate, SGA President Tom Earnhardt commented that the new student council will be in
office a week longer." Candidates' names will remain on the ballot unless they withdraw, but the field remains clear, Welty
said. No more publicity will be published, and candidates have been asked not to solicit votes during the coming spring
break, he added. Both winners and losers in Monday's invalid voting, as well as the newly appointed cheerleaders, were disgruntled
at the prospect of having to go through the election again. Many candidates' platforms had already been taken down, and
the extra campaign will take still more time. Poll Watchers Question Procedure In Elections Allegations Twice over the weekend against
the Elections Council based on several occurrences during the recent elections that improper election procedure was followed, said Senior Mike
Bates, chairman of the Constitution Revision Committee, said that he had seen a member of the ElectionsCouncil telling a voter
how to vote in the recent newspaper election: The minister was on duty at the ‘ive. Antes stiscenl, spline Rca
ur a _~ 4. f v4 -- = = Authors Search Southern Literature In Two-Day Reynolds Symposium

Three Southern author-critics presented papers and examined contemporary Southern literature during the Reynolds Symposium Monday and Tuesday. Walter Sullivan, professor
of English at Vanderbilt and author of several novels on Southern life, began the discussion with his observations on the
need of the Southern writer to remain in the South and confine himself to Southern subjects. C. Hugh Holman, professor
of English and Provost of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and author of several books of criticism
of Southern literature, agreed mainly with this analysis and stressed that Southern literature should be regional and not provincial. “A
consciousness of the South” is the only necessity for a Southern writer, said Dr. Louis D. Rubin, a younger critic
and professor of English at UNC-CH and author of several novels. He pointed out several novels written by Southern writers
when they were not living in the South. Holman examined Southern social issues in a paper he presented Monday night.
The presence of the Negro, an agricultural economy, and the Civil War are basic factors which characterize Southern writing and
give it continuity, he said. Rubin delivered his paper Monday night on the continuing literary tradition in the South and
theorized that change has not caused a loss of the traditional style and setting of Southern literature. He said that
the old order of Southern literature is “not collapsing.” Sullivan read selections from his soon-to-be-published novel during chapel period Tuesday
in the Dome Room.

Reeling Alternating, stated that the paths had been unplanned during the most recent Honor Court elections for approximately 20 minutes.
The ballots had been left out on the table without supervision, he noted. During this period, several individuals stated that
ballots had been regularly counted before the close of the polls, and that the polls had on occasion been closed
during polling hours. The member of the Elections Council who was accused of influencing the vote replied that “I would
generally say elections by students are open to public position.” Carroll said, “My written report will be provided soon and
will address these issues.” Appeals did not make a decision on the four-part report, claiming that student conviction had already
been presented to the faculty Student Life Committee. George Eastland, a member of this committee, said the report was “simply
tremendous.” Norman Johnson, professor of history and another Student Life Committee member, said the general student attitude towards the committee
was very favorable to the report. “All we are asking is for revision and suggestions,” said Johnson, “such as defining
who is a ‘visitor’ by consensus.”

The four parts of the report include a preamble, which has already been released, a code of responsibilities, a judicial
system for administering the code, and a supplementary code dealing with matters of lesser importance. The supplementary code, which will
be informally presented to the appropriate college officials, will deal with matters such as the library’s practice of sending notices
of overdue books home to students’ parents. Carroll said, “An Open Book will be held the third Wednesday after spring
vacation,” to give students a chance to ask questions and make suggestions. All members of the CRAP Committee will be
present at the meeting.

SPRING BREAK

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication until after the spring break. Publication will resume April 5 with the usual
8-page edition.

MIKE CARROLL
CRAP Chairman

Frolics Band In Doubt

There is as yet no entertainment scheduled for Friday night of Spring Frolics, Social Council Chairman Charlie Cameron said yesterday.
“It’s not a question of potential bands,” said Cameron, “but a matter of how much the Social Council is willing
to spend.” He mentioned several bands which would be available when travel expenses and their fees are provided. Cameron said
that the committee had hoped to get a group at the recent booking conference. He added that a plan of
cooperative booking with several large universities failed to materialize because one of the universities could not be assured of breaking
even. Cameron denied knowledge of a rumor that the late Otis Redding had been booked for that evening.

280 Applicants Accepted As Total Number Declines

For early decision and about 240 regular applicants have been accepted this year for the class of 1971 out of
1064 applicants, a decrease in applications of about 100 from last year. While Director of Admissions, noted that a drop
in applications did not result in a drop in the quality of those accepted. White and John W. Rees, assistant
director of admissions, attributed the decline to a seeming decrease in the national applicant pool, a decrease in competitiveness of
schools, and a shift in applications to small private schools. “In recent years there has been a substantial increase in
the total number of colleges and universities in this country, and many schools have increased in size. Therefore you are
dividing a basically stable applicant pool into a larger number of institutions,” said White. Both men noted that the total
number of applicants is not important, but rather how many strong applicants there were that the school wanted to take.
Applications for the freshman class of 1967 were down from 1168 to 1064, and applications for the freshman class of
1966 had dropped from 1274. Only about 100 completed applications have been received for this year’s freshman class, according to
Rees. Rees noted that Davidson is considered by many to be at the very top of competitive admissions schools in
the South, the other being the women’s school at Duke. “A boy who a year or two ago would be
advised to apply to Davidson will now get the same advice when he has good grades whereas a boy with
mediocre grades might be told not to apply now,” said White. “Really, what you are seeing is happening, if they
are interested, we would rather have them apply well than not apply at all,” said Rees. “When many students show
applications that would have gotten in and are very (See 280, Page Four)

Duke Dean Mentioned As Possible President

Dr. James L. Price, dean of Trinity College of Duke University, is one of “35 or 40 educators” being considered
for the Davidson presidency, the Duke Chronicle said last week. Price is known to most Davidson students as the author
of “Interpreting the New Testament,” the text for Bible 12. The Chronicle attributed its report to “sources at Davidson,” but
did not elaborate. Described as a “good New Testament scholar” by Dr. Daniel Rhodes, professor of Bible and religion here,
Price received an MTh from Princeton Theological Seminary and PhD from Cambridge. Price, who is on sabbatical this year, has
been dean of Trinity College since 1964. He satisfies the trustees’ requirement that the president be a Presbyterian.
