Page Six

BARBY WELLS
Alpha Tau Omega

MARY McMILLAN
Phi Delta Theta

October 11, 1968

MARTIE DAETWYLER
Beta Theta Pi

MRS. KATY MACLEAN
Phi Gamma Delta

Twenty Leaders

Twenty seniors have been named to Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges, a national honorary organization that recognizes campus leaders. The students were selected by a faculty-student committee on the basis of “scholarship, citizenship, participation and leadership in academic and extra-curricular activities, and general promise of future usefulness to business and society.”

Sam Aycock serves as student director of the Wind Ensemble and director of the Wildcat Band. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Tom Baker is vice-chairman of the Honor Court, editor of The Wildcat Handbook and chairman of the Publications Board. He is also a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Charles Cameron serves as chairman of the Social Council, vice-president of the Union Board and correspondent for Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Block “D” Club President Covey Carter is secretary of the senior class and a member of Sigma Delta Psi, an honorary athletic fraternity. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Dave Clemmons serves as president of Sigma Chi, a freshman hall counselor and a member of the Committee on Rules and Punishments.

Bud Cousar is president of Beta Theta Pi, chairman of the Student Government Association Court of Appeals and a member of the Constitution Revision Committee.

Freshman Camp Director Johnny Durham is secretary of the Social Council, historian of Alpha Tau Omega and captain of the cheerleaders.

Ed Embree serves as president of the College Union Board and chairman of the Activities Grant Foundation Board of Directors. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity.

Interfraternity Council Vice President Marshall Guill is president of the YMCA and an associate editor of Quips and Cranks. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta.

Fletcher Hartsell is president of the Debate Team, a former vice-president of the student body and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Robbie Hooker is editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN and a member of ODK and Phi Eta Sigma, honorary scholastic fraternity. He is also a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Wayne Huckel is a member of the Honor Court, ODK and Phi Eta Sigma. He is a member of the basketball team and Phi Delta Theta.

Senior Class President Frank Murphy is captain of the baseball team and a member of Phi Delta Theta.

Joe Murphy serves as president of the Student Government Association, pledge trainer for Alpha Tau Omega, and as a member of ODK.

Joe Norton is vice-president of the Y, president of the Scabbard and Blade, and rush chairman of Phi Delta Theta.

Sigma Phi Epsilon President Randy Phillips is captain of the cross country team and a member of Phi Eta Sigma and the Student Life Committee.

John Roe serves as defense adviser for the Honor Court and the Student Government Court, executive vice president of Alpha Phi Omega and scholarship chairman and parliamentarian of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Bobby Vagt serves as a freshman hall counselor, president of the IFC and president of the Psychology Club. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Bill Williams is chairman of the Honor Court, a freshman hall counselor and president of the Psychology Club. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.

CLAIRE KINNETT
Kappa Alpha

RUTH ANNE MAXWELL
Pi Kappa Alpha

Who’s Who Taps

TRICIA ARMSTRONG
Kappa Sigma

JANE MACKEY
Pi Kappa Phi

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

HOME-BUILDERS
Martins admire new construction.

Town Restaurateurs: No Plans

Homecoming Queen Candidates - 1968

SUSAN AGEN
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

KATHY DWINELL
Sigma Chi

PAT FLOWE
Sigma Nu

EMILY HARMON
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Martin Relaxes Following Eventful Davidson Reign

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

Grier Martin is out of the rat-race and is glad of it. Which is not to say he did not enjoy being president of Davidson College for 10 years. The animation he uses in talking of his years as president and earlier as alumni secretary and treasurer clearly indicates that he loved every minute of it. In fact, it becomes increasingly obvious that Davidson College meant more to him than just a job—it was his life.

But as a retired president Martin has time to do what he has been unable to do for so long—like sitting down to watch the World Series, making a purely vacational trip to New York or to the beach, or supervising the construction of his new house on Lorimer Road.

He is also glad to be relieved of the constant pressure which characterizes the modern college president's job. “I read with a sigh of relief,” he said, “the recent article in TIME about the pressures of the college presidency and the other educators who have retired for similar reasons.

“It is always comforting to know there are others who are experiencing the same difficulties I faced and are reacting to them in a similar way,” he added.

Martin and his wife Louise are presently residing only two houses away from the president’s home, at a house which he affectionately terms

For Selling Beverages Locally

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

Despite trustee approval of The Code of Responsibility today, Hattie’s apparently won't lose its virtual monopoly on alcoholic beverage sales to students — at least for the time being.

A survey of the town's four restaurant owners this week found them either unaware of the proposed student rule changes or with no immediate plans to capitalize on the rule change.

Dean Howard, who leases the Wildcat Den from Coach Lefty Driesell, expressed an interest in obtaining a beer permit. “It would really help the pizza business,” he said. Driesell, however, denied any plan to apply for a permit as of now.

The owner of the Coffee Cup Restaurant, B. S. Sigmon, who managed the Anchor Grill when it sold more beer than Hattie’s, doubted the Council would allow beer sales in town. “On the other hand, if the College changes its policy the town may follow suit sooner or later,” Sigmon said.

Although plans to allow alcoholic beverages on campus include the College Union, state law prohibits the sale of these beverages on the grounds of an educational institution. “This would apply whether the college itself or Slater Food Service does the selling,” said C.Shaw Smith, coordinator of student activities. “Brown-bagging, however, could be permitted in the Union, provided those involved are of the legal age," he said. Smith said the Union Board will be looking for the best ways to take advantage of the new ruling. "It's too early to reveal any definite plans yet, but I am hopeful that we will be able to use alcoholic beverages constructively in the Union to enhance the social life of the college."

faculty: the newspaper that newspaper people read... At last count, we had more than 8,800 newspaper editors on our list of subscribers to The Christian Science Monitor. Editors from all over the world. There is a good reason why these “pros” read the Monitor: the Monitor is the world’s only daily international newspaper. Unlike local papers, the Monitor focuses exclusively on world news — the important news. The Monitor selects the news it considers most significant and reports it, interprets it, analyzes it — in depth. It takes you further into the news.

Half-price to college students

“Martin's Manor.” “When I first came here as college treasurer," he said, “my brother and I fixed this house up for our mother, and that is when it received the nickname." In addition to a house he purchased on Lake Norman four years ago, which has the “sandiest beach in the neighborhood," he is also having a house built in the neighborhood behind the infirmary, once termed “Grier's Gulch.” Martin tells this story with evident relish. When he came here as treasurer, there was a definite housing shortage in Davidson. Under a special plan which he originated, people connected with the college were permitted to construct new houses at a substantial reduction by financing them through the college, in an area which was then nothing but woods, weeds, and ditches. Since then, 56 houses have been built under the plan, mostly for professors, and only one of the original owners has sold his house. The irony is that Martin is building his house on the last available lot in the neighborhood. He anticipates that it will be finished around Christmas.

Martin says his immediate future is a little cloudy at the present moment. He has already been contacted by a Washington agency to serve as an educational consultant who would visit several South Carolina colleges, particularly Negro colleges, to give advice on their financial situations and on more effective methods of raising money. “I like the idea,” he said, “but I have as yet made no definite commitment.”

The new president of Davidson College, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., is a close friend of Martin's. “We both came to Davidson in 1951," he said, “Sam as dean of students and I as treasurer. For six summers after that we alternated years on taking trips to Europe on a very economical joint plan. My wife and I still hope to accompany Sam and his wife on a trip to Europe.”

What is Martin proudest of about his administration at Davidson? “The attitude of the students toward me, I guess,” he said. “In light of the difficulties at other colleges, I feel very proud that there was no trouble at Davidson.”

Colleen Norket, proprietor of the Davidson Grocery, also indicated some interest in selling beer, but has no plans to seek a permit yet.

According to Mayor F. L. Jackson, the Town of Davidson has no ordinance for providing the sale of alcoholic beverages. State law, however, requires the permission of the Town Council to obtain a permit to sell beer and wine. He said Jackson declined to comment on the chances the council would approve such a request. “We've never received any petitions for a permit,” he said.

Spencer's speech came after he answered “I do” to three inaugural questions asked him by Walter L. Lingle Jr., president of the Board of Trustees. Applause interrupted the new president’s address three times, once when he announced the composition of the commissions, once when he promised to end discrimination in faculty and staff positions, but most emphatically when he praised former President D. Grier Martin for “the handsome legacy of achievement he has left us all.”

Davidsonian Staff Contributors this week: Steve Williams, Chris Bickley, Don Parman, Sterling Abernathy, Jim Bailey, A. W. Turner Jr., Bob Wallace, Steve Cross, John Carlson, Dave Wasserman, Rob Krehbiel, George Park, John McLean, Jim Phillips, Danny White, Joe Smith, Steve Roady, Allen Lewis, Paul Rowland, Norwood Poland, Reid Sampson, Ed Shoaf, John Rowe, Bill Lineaweaver, Allen Lewis, and Dan Graham.

A Faculty member

Year of graduation

Get a Swingline Tot Stapler

Giant Poster from any photo

“Flowers of Distinction” Serving the Area 35 years

Smith’s Flowers, Inc. 302 Smith’s Circle Cornelius, N. C. Phone 892-8856

*Send any black & white or color photo

Poster rolled and mailed (postpaid) in sturdy tube. Original material returned undamaged. Satisfaction guaranteed.

Swingline, Inc. Long Island City, N.Y. 11101