BENTLEY BLASTS BURTS (See Page Two)

VOL. LVI

DEBATE SMOULDERS

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1968

Little Fire May Spark Changes

(Photo by Joe Friebele)

SMOKE CLOUDS HALL

Third Little residents survey damage scene.

Dorm Fire Does $3,000 Damage

By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

A fire which caused about $3,000 damage occurred in Little dormitory Sunday about 6:30 a.m. Blake Anderson and Roger Mercer, the occupants of the third-floor room, estimated that they lost at least that amount in clothing, books, bedding, a pipe collection, luggage, a camera, and a typewriter.

Mercer said that he was in the room asleep when the fire started in an overstuffed chair next to his bed. Mercer attempted to use a trash basket of water to put out the fire, but by the time he had returned from the bathroom with the water the fire was too big to be extinguished that way.

Bob McKellar, who rooms two doors down the hall, said that he woke up and tried to get the second-floor fire extinguisher. He found that the key on the box did not fit the lock and the extinguisher could not be gotten out by breaking the glass front. Mercer borrowed a dime and called the fire department, which arrived minutes later. Because of smoke, no attempt was made to get to the third-floor fire extinguisher.

“We got the call about 6:36,” (See FIRE, Page Six)

Bill Watson, president of the Senior Class, presented proposals to the Student Council yesterday urging revision of the college's provisions for fighting dormitory fires. Watson, working in conjunction with Grover C. Meetze Jr., director of the physical plant, said the revision was necessitated by “trends in dormitory fires.”

Watson's proposals are part of the continuing debate over fire-fighting preparedness at Davidson. The debate was touched off by the Sunday morning fire in Little 301. Meetze was criticized by some students for putting the hall fire extinguishers in locked boxes. “Of course, the situation of having to use any kind of lock is very unfortunate,” Meetze said. “However, when we inspected them (the extinguishers) last year, we found that three-fourths of them were missing or had been discharged.”

“If we could improve the situation so that they wouldn't be removed, we could just hang them on the wall,” he added. Watson and E. N. Linker, campus security officer, reiterated Meetze's position. Each hall is supposed to have two types of fire extinguishers on the wall. The larger is a powder extinguisher and is in a box with a padlock and the key to the lock behind glass on the side of the box. The other type, a carbon dioxide model, can be removed from the box by breaking the glass in the front of the box. Both Meetze and Davidson Fire Chief George S. Hampton said that these were the best extinguishers available. However, Hampton said, “The extinguishers are no good unless you catch the fire early.”

Meetze has also set up a fire rescue squad to pull trapped students out of burning dormitories. This squad is composed of members of the Davidson staff and practices weekly. “The rescue squad is a volunteer group. They train in the use of Scott air packs, and we have a 60-foot ladder,” said Meetze. The air packs enable men to breathe in a smoke-filled building. “The rescue squad is a good program,” Hampton said, “They're getting a lot more equipment, and I'm told they're really well taught.”

“They have over $2,000 worth of equipment,” said Watson. He added that he felt the rescue squad ought to hold demonstrations once a semester so that the student body would be aware of them. College officials have also received criticism because there are no automatic alarm systems in any of the dorms. “In my opinion, it would be a good thing if each dorm had an alarm system,” said one local firefighter.

Watson said that the college had considered putting a central, automatic alarm in each dorm but decided against it since students could set off false alarms. “Students cannot behave irresponsibly toward a dorm alarm system and they cannot play pranks with the extinguishers,” Watson said. “They could show responsibility toward fire prevention by passing the new fire rule which will come up in a couple of weeks.”

“Students are not justified in just breaking the fire extinguisher boxes maliciously,” Linker added, “We also have a general alarm system that’s supposed to go off in case of fire. We test it regularly.”

260 Books Vanish

By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Library has lost over $1,300 worth of books. According to the inventory taken in June, 1967, 260 books were missing, of which 15 have been found. According to a library spokesman, the number missing is not significantly greater than the number in previous years. The number of missing books for the inventory of June, 1966, was 262; for June, 1965, the number was 193; and for June, 1964, the number was 227.

“While $1,300 is not as great a loss as some libraries have reported, and while it is surprisingly small for a library on the open-stack system, it is a disappointing loss for a school which operates on an honor system,” the spokesman said. He went on to point out that money which could be spent on acquiring new volumes has to be used to replace the missing books. Since some of the books cannot be replaced because they are out of print, the efforts of the library staff to improve the library are frustrated.

UNCONTESTED House Wins Ballot

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

Students were chosen this week to fill three positions for the 1968-69 academic year, with two of the three decided by Student Council approval of the only candidate. In the only contested election, junior George House defeated Fred Lowrance for the editorship of the student literary magazine, “The Miscellany.” House, an English major from Robersonville, defeated Lowrance by a margin of 70 votes. According to Elections Chairman Bruce Weihe, the final total showed House the winner by 229-159. A member of Phi Delta Theta, House served this year as fiction editor of “The Miscellany.”

The other positions filled this week were those of president of the College Union and chairman of the Social Council. Only one student had

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, February 10
2 p.m. Basketball Richmond, Va. — Davidson vs. Richmond
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball Richmond, Va. — Davidson vs. Richmond

Sunday, February 11
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service — Charles E. Lloyd

Monday, February 12
8 p.m. Fine Films

Tuesday, February 13
8 p.m. Movie

Wednesday, February 14
6:30 p.m. Freshman Basketball — Davidson vs. South Carolina
8 p.m. Basketball Columbia, S. C.
7:30 p.m. Movie College Union — “The Glory Stompers”
8:15 p.m. Otts Lecture — Dr. John B. Cobb Jr.
10 p.m. Open Discussion Hodson Hall Union Lobby — Deans Johnston and Burts on ‘Next Year’

Thursday, February 15
10:20 a.m. Voluntary Chapel Love Auditorium — Dr. Cobb, Otts Lecturer
8 p.m. Movie College Union — “The Glory Stompers”
8:15 p.m. Otts Lecture Hodson Hall — Dr. CobbHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"it every day at 1 p.m.," Meetze said. Lee “A RUDE AWAKENING Students join in fire-fight. SOPHOMORES SPREAD GOSPEL (See Page Six) NUMBER SIXTEEN —_— = (Photo by Bob McKellar) New Constitution To Go To Vote On Wednesday MBC’s Spencer: Next President? By FRANKLIN ANDERSON Assistant Managing Editor Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, president of Mary Baldwin College and generally considered one of the leading candidates for next president of Davidson, said Wednesday he had not been contacted by the trustees’ selection committee. If selected, he would replace President D. Grier applied for each position, and therefore the Student Council approved the candidates and declared them elected. Ed Embree, a junior from Durham, assumed the position of president of the College Union. A member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and a former managing editor for THE DAVIDSONIAN, Embree advanced to the position from his previous position as vice president of the union. The council also approved the election of Charles Cameron, another junior, as chairman of the Social Council. Already a member of the council and social chairman for the College Union, he will begin immediately to coordinate social functions during the remainder of the semester. Cameron, from Memphis, Tenn., is also a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Martin, who is resigning June 30. The surprise resignation was announced to the faculty Jan. 3. Spencer also said it would be “inappropriate for me to comment” on reports that he had once been offered a position of vice-president for academic affairs or academic dean here. Emphasizing the impropriety of his commenting on any part of the selection committee’s work, Spencer said he had received only the communications sent to all members of the Board of Trustees. He was elected to the board in 1966. Spencer, a graduate of Davidson, Class of ‘40, served as assistant to the president and dean of students between 1951 and 1957. He then left to take the presidency of Mary Baldwin. As a student at Davidson, Spencer was president of the student body, managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa. Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president and a student while Spencer was dean of students, characterized Spencer as “extremely popular with the student body.” “He was a rigorous and demanding professor, but a very competent one at that,” Bondurant said. Spencer received his PhD in history from Harvard, and has published two books. (See SPENCER, Page Six) DR. SAM SPENCER - Rumored candidate Final Draft Gets Few Revisions Needs Two-Thirds Vote By JIM COOLEY Staff Writer The student body will vote Wednesday on whether to accept a new constitution which has been 10 months in preparation and which will make significant changes in student government. Two-thirds of the students voting must approve the new constitution. This requirement satisfies provisions for revising the old constitution and also meets ratification procedures outlined in the proposed document. Nod Of Council By JOHN WILLIAMS Staff Writer The Student Council gave unanimous approval to the proposed Student Government Association Constitution last night, after voting Monday to propose it to the students. The student vote was set for Wednesday, Feb. 14. A two-thirds majority of those voting will be necessary to pass the constitution. Franklin Anderson, secretary of the Constitution Revision Committee, discussed minor corrections in the final draft with the Council Monday, and Mike Bates, chairman of the committee, went over the document in detail with the Council last night. Anderson said the new constitution would be adopted as an amendment to the old constitution but contained a provision abolishing the old constitution. He also said the by-laws to the new constitution would be ready within a week if the constitution is approved by the students. In other action, Joe Beard, Bill Schmickle, Robert Pyeatt, Harrison Higgins, and Steve Engstrom were chosen from a list of nine nominees to attend the IMPACT symposium at Vanderbilt University in April. The Council also voted to send Engstrom, Higgins, and Anderson to the National Student Association (NSA) district convention in Atlanta Feb. 22-25, but at the same time informally reaffirmed its non-membership in NSA. Secretary Treasurer Sam Darby reported that the treasury contains $851 left in this year's budget. The new constitution, which was proposed by the Student Council Monday, and approved by them last night, is a revision of the draft published by THE DAVIDSONIAN shortly before Christmas. Copies of the final draft were distributed to dormitory rooms and the College Union Monday night. If student approval is obtained in the vote Wednesday, the faculty Student Life Committee is then to vote on recommending faculty endorsement. According to Mike Bates, chairman of the Constitution Revision Committee, a favorable vote is likely by this committee. The Student Life Committee, if it approves the document, will then submit all or part of the new constitution to the faculty for endorsement. Bates said Article IV, the Bill of Rights, would definitely be submitted since it places certain limitations on the faculty. (See CONSTITUTION, P. 6) "I'm sorry, the phone chairman you have reached is not in service” Only two out of 17 hall telephones were answered during a survey Wednesday night by THE DAVIDSONIAN. The phone check was made between 7 p.m. and 11 p.m., when the chairmen are supposed to be on duty. All 17 dorm phones were called. During the survey, eight phones were answered by students other than phone chairmen. All eight said the phone chairmen on their halls were not regularly answering the phone. There was no answer for three phones after 15 rings. Four phones were answered by people who said no chairmen had been assigned to that phone. Residents of one hall presented their telephone chairmen with a petition Wednesday demanding that the chairmen do their job. Charges were made first semester that the chairmen were not performing their duties. Telephone chairmen are paid $75 a semester for answering the phone.