Page Six Foreign January 12, 1968 The Davidsonian

Student Applicants Now Being Accepted

By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Dr. John D. Kelton, professor of psychology, has begun accepting applications from prospective foreign students for next year. “The president has told me to plan on bringing at least 10 new Richardson Scholars next year,” said Kelton. Foreign students, now known as Richardson students, are students from foreign countries who come to Davidson and other colleges on scholarships. This year there are 3 at Davidson. Since 1958 the scholarships have been paid for by the Richardson Foundation. However, the foundation is withdrawing its support next fall. If the college wishes the program to continue, it must find its own funding.

Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations and development, said that the college has as yet been unable to find any new funds. “We consider this program of the first priority,” said Sailstad. “We are very optimistic about finding funds for the program.”

Graduates Evaluate Program

All former Richardson Scholars have received letters requesting their evaluations of the study program for foreign students. Bill Siegler, president of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity, said, “The purpose of this project is to accumulate information that can be assimilated into a pamphlet or brochure.” Tom Earnhardt, president of the Student Council, has also been working with APO on this project. “This can be used by the college in making contacts with potential financial supporters of the program,” Siegler said.

New supporters are needed because the Richardson Foundation, which formerly supported the program, has announced that it will withdraw its support next year. Richardson Scholars are foreign students who study one year at Davidson on full scholarships. “The response to the first letters sent out has been significant but not overwhelming,” Siegler said. “It seems to me from the response to the program of all concerned that it has been beneficial to the college,” Kelton said. “It's been an important part of the educational program. It would be rather strange if we were to continue to send large numbers of students abroad and then be unable to do the same thing in reverse direction,” Kelton added.

(Staff Photos by Weems)

MRS. DAVID BEAVER POINTS TO ROBBERS’ WORK
But rifled cash register was empty.

Two Youths Are Arrested In Laundry, Union Thefts

By CHUCK GREEN
Staff Writer

A 13-year-old boy convicted this fall for three robberies of the College Laundry has been arrested again along with another youth for the laundry's fourth robbery. Mecklenburg County Police also charged the pair in connection with a break-in at the Union Cafeteria. Police said both robberies occurred between midnight and 6 a.m. last Sunday. Taken from the laundry were two pairs of pants, a shirt, and a coat, Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks said. Cash registers in the cafeteria, which were empty, were heavily damaged, Cafeteria Manager Klaus Kleeburg said. A few cellophane-wrapped pies and soft drinks were removed, he said.

Following the three robberies this fall, bars had been installed on the windows on three sides of the laundry. Entry in the latest theft was gained through a window on the unprotected side, near the campus security officers’ headquarters, police said. The robbers entered the cafeteria by pushing in a window of the dish room, Kleeburg said. He said they apparently took the cash registers into a ladies’ restroom; the registers were pried open. The robber who hit the laundry was called “a cool character” by Grover C. Meetze Jr., director of the physical plant. During the laundry robbery, the robber changed clothes, leaving his behind. The administration believed that the side of the laundry where the break-in occurred was adequately lighted and needed no window bars, Robert A. Currie, business manager and treasurer, said. “We will put bars on the remainder of the laundry’s windows, put bars on the kitchen windows, and improve the lighting around the rear of the Union,” he said. He also said the college had not decided to add another man to its security force. But an alarm system is a possibility, he said. “The total effect of a security system is measured over a period of years,” Meetze said. “The college's security force is doing a good job; they have a pretty good record.”

Constitution Draft To Get Revision

By GEORGE ALLEN
Staff Writer

A joint student-faculty committee is reworking the new constitutional draft in an attempt to make it acceptable to both students and faculty. The most extensive change for the new draft concerns a partial rewrite of the present Bill of Rights. Other changes include an amendment requiring the president of the

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BILL ANDREWS
HEYWARD CARTER
KERN PARKER
GEOFF SEAMANS
BILL SEIGLER
BOB TRAVERS

Managing Editors:
ROBBIE HOOKER
BOB REID

Assistant Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT

Sports Editor:
DON SEWELL

Assistant Sports Editors:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE
DANNY WHITE

News Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Copy Editor:
CHARLES McEWEN

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
KEATON FONVIELLE
DAVID WEEMS

Cartoonists:
BURKEY BELSER
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS
MIKE SIGMAN

Assistant Business Manager:
MIKE JOHNSON

Advertising Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week:
Craig Culp, John Bolinger, Biff Fine, Mark Wingate, Glenn Mauney, Athley Kline, John Williams, Rob Krehbiel, Dick Chandler, Chuck Green, Bill Warren, Paul Rowland, Jim Cooley, Dick Anderson, George Allen, James Lee, Edward Hay, Richard Cowart, James Roland, Jim Crouse, Doug Haynes, and Don Hoyt.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Search For Successor (Continued From Page One)

telephone interview that the trustees had given the students an advisory position because “it made sense to include everyone who has an interest — and certainly the students do.” Students interested in serving on the committee should sign up in the lobby of the College Union by Monday, Earnhardt said. Candidates should submit brief letters stating their interest and qualifications to the council, which will make the selections Monday. “We will select the best people, regardless of class,” Earnhardt said. “This is the most important thing we as a student body have been given in a long time. I am certain the student representatives will do a good job.”

“Under the Davidson College charter the Board of Trustees has the sole responsibility for selection of the college's president,” Lingle said this week. “This responsibility is not one that can be delegated to others. At the same time, the trustees are anxious to get the advice and counsel of all interested parties in seeking the possible successor to Dr. Martin.” In addition to the faculty and student committee, Lingle announced two other advisory groups: —Twelve trustees who are alumni members of the board, the alumni president, and the alumni president-elect. They will serve as “an avenue for communication with and advice from the college's alumni.” —Trustees elected by church presbyteries. They will maintain communication with their presbyteries during the selection process. Martin has also been asked to work “very closely” with the trustee nominating committee, Lingle said. Lingle also requested that any person with suggestions for the nomination write directly to the nominating committee in care of Mulliss at Helms, Mulliss, McMillan and Johnston, 800 North Carolina National Bank Building, Charlotte, 28202. The nominating committee expects to meet again in about a month, Lingle said.

Welsh (Continued From Page One)

the text are “beautiful to give form to.” She said that the “aaah” vocalization has “tremendous possibilities.” Miss Kombrink is now a member of the music faculty at the University of Wisconsin, at Madison. The Chicago Little Symphony, which will provide the orchestration for the performance, has been called “America’s Finest Chamber Orchestra.” Dr. Thor Johnson, conductor of the symphony, is a graduate of the University of North Carolina, and holds honorary degrees from 10 universities and colleges. Acknowledged as one of the world’s finest conductors by members of the press and music critics, Johnson has appeared as guest conductor with the New York Philharmonic, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, and Los Angeles orchestras. Another highlight of the performance will be a percussion solo by Tsutomu Yamashita. Students may pick up complimentary tickets at the College Union tomorrow for the Monday night performance. All seats are reserved for the 8 p.m. performance in Love Auditorium.Student body to be a senior and the vice president to be a junior and a slight change in the amendment procedure. An added procedure will require a majority of the student body to vote on a proposal in order for the vote to be effective. The Bill of Rights revision will reorganize the present Bill of Rights into a series of guaranteed freedoms. These will include the rights of freedom, self-government, inquiry, expression, association, civil and political opinions, privacy, due process of law, and those rights traditionally held by students. The revisions also change the student body to the Student Government Association and guarantee students the right to vote in the SGA. Serving on the committee are faculty and administration members Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Norman Johnson, T. A. Williams and Bill Bondurant, and students Randy Phillips, Fletcher Hartsell, Franklin Anderson and Mike Bates. The committee has met twice and planned to meet again this afternoon.

Students Ask Addition Of Three Amendments

A renewed effort to include a fire rule in the present constitution and two amendments clearing up technical details in that document have been discussed by the Constitution Revision Committee. All three will entail the acceptance of amendments to the old constitution. The latter two changes concern noise in the dormitories and the keeping of firearms in the dorms. All of the 50 signatures required for bringing the amendments to a vote have been obtained. Only one person has refused to sign the petition thus far. Franklin Anderson, a sophomore member of the revision committee, has been conducting the campaign for the amendments. It is necessary to make the revisions now, said Anderson, because the regulations in the present constitution are supposed to be used as they now stand in the new document proposed by the revision committee. According to him, the fire rule is essentially a revision of the fire rule which was defeated earlier this year. Although such fires are punishable under present rules, he said, the specification of a suspension type penalty will underline the seriousness of the fire danger. The proposal concerning residence hall noise will not be changed but rather will be shifted from an Honor Court violation to a Regulations Court violation. A member of the committee said that it was a mistake for this rule to have been an Honor Court violation in the first place and that the error is now being rectified.

Faculty To Assist In Selection

By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer

The faculty Committee on Professional Affairs will meet tomorrow to begin the process of electing faculty members to serve on a special committee for the selection of a new president. The faculty committee, which will have a maximum of six members, will consult with the trustee committee that will nominate the man to succeed Dr. D. Grier Martin. There are no constitutional provisions for such an election so several alternatives will be open to the committee. Professor Joseph Drake, chairman of the committee, said that his committee must decide whether to submit a nominating ballot directly to the faculty to make additional nominations. In either case the faculty will vote by ballot on the members who receive the most nominations, Drake said. He said that there had also been some discussion about electing the members of the committee according to divisions of the curriculum. Under this method divisions along such lines as social science, physical science, the humanities and language would be drawn, and one member from each would be elected to the committee. After the decision as to the method of election is reached tomorrow, Drake estimated that the members would be elected “within 10 days.”

Lingle (Continued From Page One)

“and though the eventual choice may be one that seems quite likely right now, he will be the one with the best qualifications for the position.” In discussing the amount of time it will require for the committee to complete its consideration of the candidates and to find a successor, Lingle said only that he hoped it would not take the year that was required before Martin was named president.

Sunday Night Open House

The following homes will be open this Sunday at 8:
Abbott 127 S. Main
Kelton 119 Lorimer
McGeachy 309 Pinecrest
Puckett 105 College Dr.
Terry 904 N. Main
Locke White 203 Lorimer

Campbell: South Is Not Christian

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The South is not Christian and never has been, especially in its attitude on race relations, the Rev. Will D. Campbell told a cut-minded student body in chapel Thursday. The race situation in the church is like a little boy with an ice cream cone given him by a stranger, Campbell said. Some friends came along, and asked to have a bite or lick, but the boy refused to share any of the cone. Later, after the boys had left, his conscience bothered him and he changed his mind. But as he looked for the children, the hot sun melted the cone, and by the time he found them, there was nothing but melted ice cream with fly specs. Of course, the boys didn't want any. Besides, they had food of their own, a kind of food, explained Campbell, that the young boy had never seen before. Like the young boy is the church, withholding a gift of God's body and blood until it is too late to do any good. So late, Campbell said in the coffee hour after chapel, that the United States will probably not escape revolution and destruction. The South has never been a Christian region, Campbell said, “except in the strange manner of a man who will never come inside or go away entirely but stands grumbling at the door.” A balding man who has spent seven years with the National Council of Churches, Campbell now works with the Committee of Southern Churchmen in Nashville, Tenn. He spoke to an almost empty auditorium, due to the rash of end of semester chapel cutting. Campbell suggested that the churches should carry out what they are preaching. “For instance,” he quickly added, “it would be a good idea for a preacher to announce that, next week, instead of the offering, there will be a large van, which church members are to fill with food for the needy.” “But,” he added philosophically and a bit dejectedly, “ministers say that will only mess up the service.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Show ID Cards
500 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop

AT THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEK DAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.

Fellows Deadline Is Near

Applicants for the Richardson Fellows program have been asked to complete an additional step for their applications, according to Mike Mooty, director of the group. Applicants, who are all freshmen, must now write an additional essay on either of two topics—an essay on leadership illustrated from their past experience or an essay in which they should visualize themselves in a leadership position at some future time. Mooty said that two people, not members of the Davidson faculty, will assist in the selection. They are Les Rollins, dean of the Harvard Business School, and Tom Lambeth, a Richardson Foundation associate. Factors in the consideration of each applicant include the recommendation of the freshman's hall counselor, first semester grade point average, SAT scores and interviews.

APO Distributes Christmas Boxes

Twenty-one needy families received Christmas boxes of clothes, candy and toys as a result of the Christmas project sponsored by Alpha Phi Omega, national service fraternity. APO worked in conjunction with two social workers at the Child Development Center in Davidson on the project. Money was raised through solicitations from the student body. More than $300 was collected. The project, the first of its kind by APO at Davidson, was termed “a complete success” by APO President Bill Seigler.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-6581

Ski Buffs do it!
English Leather
For men who want to be where the action is. Very schussy. Very masculine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the complete array of ENGLISH LEATHER men’s toiletries.
A PRODUCT OF MEM COMPANY, INC., NORTHVALE, N.J. 07647