Page Four November 22, 1968 The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON BASKETBALL: A PROSPECTUS 1968-69: The Year Of The ’Cat

Driesell ‘Worries’ As Season Nears

Every one of Davidson's starters received some type of post-season conference award last year, and all five return. But Coach Lefty Driesell still worries. He worries about overconfidence, about playing together, and about early ‘peaking.’ Worrying is part of his job. But the tougher schedule and increasing conference competition make it a bit stiffer, and a bit more necessary.

Overconfidence is a problem which Driesell hopes the team can shake. “They're good,” he said this week, “and they know they're good, but they can’t play 50 percent and expect to win because they are good.” A couple of taxing scrimmages this fall have worn through some of the barriers of overconfidence, Driesell says, and he hopes the rest disappear before the ’Cats open next Saturday with VMI.

Another problem Driesell hopes to conquer is getting the team to play together. “We aren't big enough to physically overpower anyone,” he said, “so we are going to have to win on hustle and team effort. We need to play together.” By playing together, Driesell refers largely to defense and board control. He isn’t overly concerned with the offense. “Every one of our starters can score when he has to,” Driesell said. “We have the scoring ability, but we have to hustle on defense to make up for our lack of height.”

Except for sophomore guard Ron Stelzer, the team is in good physical shape. Stelzer is returning to practice now after an ankle injury kept him out of practice for three weeks. But Driesell emphasizes that he doesn't want the team to reach its physical or mental peak yet. He doesn’t want that to happen until tournament time at the end of the season. “That is not to say that we won't be up for Vanderbilt or VMI or Furman,” Driesell said. “We'll be way up for them, but I don’t want to reach the peak until March.”

Driesell said that the number of home games this year will not make any noticeable difference in team attitude. “A good team can win anywhere,” he said, “and we play a number of good teams in Charlotte.” Driesell does a good bit of worrying, but he speaks of this year’s chances with a smile. “With a bit of good luck,” he said, “we can go a long way.”

Opponents: The Hard Way

Coach Lefty Driesell calls this year's schedule “the toughest it’s ever been.” The team plays a total of 19 different opponents, including four 20-game winners from last season. The teams making up the list of opponents represent eight different athletic conferences, including Atlantic Coast, Big Ten, Ivy, Mid-Atlantic, Southeastern, Southwest, Missouri Valley, and the Southern. The four teams which achieved the 20-win mark last season are Dayton, Duke, Princeton, and Vanderbilt. With their records included, opponents for this year compiled a win-loss record last year of 235-165. The teams that make up the “toughest” schedule are:

THE CITADEL
Coach Dick Campbell will welcome back three starters this year from the squad which compiled an 11-14 record last season. Leading the returnees are senior co-captains Al Kro, both 6-5, and Tee Hooper, 6-3. They will be joined by two impressive sophomores, Ben Ledbetter, the top freshman scorer last year, and 6-7 Hoke Hill, whom Campbell expects to fill the role of “big man.”

DAYTON
Madison Square Garden will host one of the tougher Wildcat games, when the Don May-less Dayton squad plays. All-American May has departed to the pros, but the team boasts considerable strength returning from last year’s 21-9 team. An extremely tall team, Dayton welcomes back 6-10 senior Dan Obrovac, 6-8 junior George Janky, and 6-6 senior Don Sadlier, along with three 6-7 sophomores. An added asset for the team is May’s little brother, 6-5 sophomore Ken May.

DUKE
The Blue Devils come to Charlotte this year bringing with them two of the best sophomore players in the country in 5-10 guard Dick DiVenzio and 6-10 center Randy Denton. Duke coach Vic Bubas is worried about replacing Mike Lewis and the inexperience of the sophomores, but these problems should resolve themselves before the late season meeting with Davidson. Back from last year's 22-6 team are forward Steve Vandenberg and guard Dave Golden, both double-figure scorers last season.

FURMAN
Furman is out to prove its ability this year after a disappointing 13-14 year last season, and Coach Frank Selvy thinks he has the guns to do it. Dick Esleeck, Steve McCammon, and Jim Daly return from last year's team, along with an impressive junior college transfer, 6-6 Joe Brunson. Add to the list the name of Charles Selvy, Frank's sophomore brother, and Furman takes on the role of spoiler in the Southern Conference.

GEORGE WASHINGTON
Another possible dark horse in the Southern is George Washington, a cellar-dweller last year. Coach Wayne Dobbs welcomes back last year’s complete starting team, along with a 6-10 sophomore center and a 17-2 freshman squad. Returning from the 5-19 team of last year are Francis Mooney, Steve Loveless, and Roger Strong.

IOWA
From the Big Ten Conference, Iowa brings a 16-9 record, six lettermen, and an all-American junior collegeTransfer to Chicago Stadium to play Davidson. The team will be paced by 6-6 transfer John Johnson, who averaged 30 points per game last year for an Oregon junior college, and 6-1 junior guard Chad Calabria.

MARYLAND
One of the contenders in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament this year, Maryland boasts some height in its returning men. Will Hetzel, 6-7 brother of Davidson All-American Fred, joins 6-6 Rod Horst and 6-7 sophomore Dick Stobaugh in the starting lineup. Pete Johnson, a 6-1 guard, will serve as playmaker for the Terrapins.

MICHIGAN
All five starters return from last year’s 11-13 Big Ten team, including All-American candidate Rudy Tomjanovich. First-year coach John Orr expects an improved team from last year and sees one of the keys to that expectation in 5-9 senior playmaker Ken Maxey. The Wolverines play the Wildcats in Ann Arbor on New Year's Eve.

PRINCETON
The ‘Davidson of the North’ returns the key men from its 20-6 team of last year, together with two top sophomores, in aiming for the Ivy League title. Six-nine senior Chris Thomforde and 6-7 junior John Hummer provide the height, while junior Jeff Petrie and sophomores Eric Neumann and Bill Sickler provide the outside scoring threat. Thomforde, whose scoring two years ago led to Princeton’s win at Davidson, will captain the squad.

RICHMOND
Colorful coach Lewis Mills, last year's Southern Conference Coach of the Year, is well pleased with the Spiders’ basketball chances. All-Southern Conference center Wilton Ford, at 6-6, leads the returnees and brings with him Kenny Foster, Picot Frazier, and Bobby Ukrop from last year's squad. Two tall sophomores, 6-8 Jim Hewitt and 6-7 Clark Wiseman, will give the Spiders the height necessary for a top spot in the conference.

USC
Coach Frank McGuire is rightfully worried about basketball at South Carolina this year. His team has no seniors, no starters, and only one returnee from last year's squad. Six-two Bobby Cremins provides the only experience for the team, which will base its hopes in the ACC on sophomores Tom Owens, 6-10, John Ribock, 6-8, and John Roche, 6-2. Owens and Roche led the Gamecock freshmen last year in scoring.

ST. JOHN'S
The Redmen will again employ a “slow-down, best shot offense,” in hopes of bettering last year's 19-8 season. John Warren, last year's top scorer, returns to the squad along with guard Carmine Calzonetti. Sophomore guard Pete La Mantia and two 6-10 classmates will see considerable action.

ST. JOSEPH’S
Last year's Gator Bowl and Big Five champions are faced with some rebuilding this year. Dan Kelly, 5-10, and Mike Hauer, 6-3, pace the lettermen on the Hawk squad, but great hope is being placed on the freshmen from last year.

TEXAS
Texas Coach Leon Black welcomes back four lettermen from last year’s 11-13 Southwest Conference team, including double-figure scorers Wayne Doyal and Kurt Papp. The team will face Wichita in the opening round of the Charlotte Invitational tournament this year.

VANDY
Last year's record spoiler, Vanderbilt, meets the Wildcats in Charlotte this year in a long-awaited rematch. Roy Skinner coaches the Southeastern Conference's 20-6 team, which returns Davidson nemesis Tom Hagen, voted the Wildcat’s top opponent last season and a candidate for national honors, along with Bob Bundy and Perry Wallace. Six-seven sophomore Thorpe Weber and classmate Rudy Thacker pace the talented sophomores on the Commodore squad.

VMI
Coach Gary McPherson welcomes back three players who averaged in double figures last season in John Mitchell, Mike Manis, and Denny Clark. Jan Essenburg, a 6-4 sophomore, is the top sophomore threat on the squad, which compiled a 9-12 record and finished fourth in the SC.

WAKE
Sophomore star Gilbert MacGregor, at 6-7, is the key to a good season for Coach Jack McCloskey’s Deacons at Wake Forest. McCloskey is relying heavily on MacGregor's inside ability to keep Wake in the ACC running. Back from last year's 5-21 squad are Dickie Walker, 6-3, and 6-0 Jerry Montgomery.

WEST VIRGINIA
In a new role as Independents, the Mountaineers are still in the thick of basketball competition. Paced by returnees Carey Bailey and Bob Hummell and sophomore sensation Skip Kintz, the team is looking for improvement on its 19-9 season last year. Coach Bucky Waters recently announced his strategy for the UCLA-WVU game this season, jokingly saying that he plans to tape Hummell to Bailey, with the result being a five-foot height advantage over Lew Alcindor.

WICHITA
The Missouri Valley Conference comes to the Charlotte Invitational Tournament when Wichita meets Texas in the opening round. The team is paced by 6-5 Ron Washington, 5-9 playmaker Greg Carney, and 6-10 center Dave Skinner. Sophomore Kevin O’Riordan will help the squad, which hopes to better last year’s 12-14 record.

Kittens ‘Just Shy’ Of Full Strength
Barring unforeseen injuries, the Wildcat freshman team should be running full force by its first game with the VMI freshmen next Saturday. The only doubtful starter will be key wingman Bryan Adrian, who injured his ankle several weeks ago and missed three weeks of practice. With a number of talented reserves in the wings, the team will probably start with Doug Hill, Lester Strong, Eric Minkin, Frank Clark, and Gary Scibal. Minkin is the big man on the squad, at 6-7. Freshman Coach Jerry Conboy is relying on him for board strength. Strong, at 6-4, is the team's best leaper and will be relied on for extra board strength. Hill will provide the playmaking for the team. Conboy is quite pleased with his ability to stop and hit from the outside.