Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

ROSALIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief
MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1968

Abolish The Curfew

One of the chief gripes we’ve heard around campus lately is the continued existence of the fraternity house curfew. This
outdated rule restricts women from the fraternity houses after midnight on weeknights (including Friday), 1:30 a.m. on Sunday morning, and
somewhat later hours on dance weekends.

When the Code of Responsibility was adopted in October, this rule and the other faculty regulations “not in conflict with
the Code” were adopted as a temporary set of administrative rules, until a permanent set could be drawn up by
the student life division of the administration. Since then the question of the curfew has been discussed rather unproductively by
the Interfraternity Council. Because the administrative officers are in the process of drawing up the permanent administrative rules, we feel
that now would be an excellent time to abolish the curfew rule entirely.

We base our argument chiefly on the principle involved. We feel that the rule is clearly in conflict with the
code, which assumes social maturity on the part of the students. The moral implications of the rule are not very
nice either. Although administrative officers usually hedge on this point, the rule clearly exists in part to prevent some immoral
act by a Davidson student in the wee hours of the morning. In the first place, this argument illustrates the
paternalistic attitude which the college has held toward students for so long, and which the code was trying to eliminate.
In the second place, the pragmatic aspects of the argument would indicate that such acts would rarely happen in fraternity
houses.

It is time the college stopped trying to impose a moral code on its students. It is very inconsistent for
the college to allow almost complete liberty in most areas and not to allow the simple privilege of entertaining women
guests in one’s fraternity house at one’s own discretion. If the college is worried about its reputation, it has certainly
exaggerated the importance of this rule in maintaining it. We just hope the administration will concur with us in this
opinion and deposit this rule in File 13.

ROTC “Compromise”

You can cite advantage after advantage of having ROTC at Davidson, and we’ll probably agree with most of what you
say. But please don’t give us that line about ROTC being non-compulsory now. Don’t kid yourself. ROTC is still very
compulsory. Any freshman who wants and who can get both his parents to agree to it before he leaves home,
of course, can get out of the program. That was the deal the trustees worked out last spring in a
half-hearted effort to pacify the Blue Sky Committee and the faculty, both of whom had recommended a voluntary program. Most
trustees still favor a required program, and they said so last spring. They therefore made darn sure it stayed that
way. The so-called “compromise” they drew up is really no compromise at all. It was in effect here some years
ago, according to Trustee Chairman Lingle, and it hardly put a dent in the number enrolled in basic ROTC. Therefore
it didn’t bother the trustees to re-institute it.

Only seven freshmen this year used their option to get out of basic ROTC, and we'll bet there are some
trustees surprised there were that many. Under the present set-up, it’s not likely that any more than that will get
out. A couple of letters and a few pages in the Wildcat Handbook, buried in that deluge of August mail
to incoming freshmen, can’t be very convincing. The trustees have once again genuflected before the holy see of tradition.

Bob Scott’s Debt

If Bob Scott and the rest of the state’s Democrats would stop sighing in relief long enough, they might look
again at that narrow victory they eked out last week in the gubernatorial race. As everybody knows, the race was
the closest in recent state history, for Republican Jim Gardner came within a whisker of winning it. That it was
so close is not really surprising—most prognosticators had it figured thus—and the way Scott got his victory isn’t too surprising
either. Only tragically ironic.

Perhaps more than any other factor, the Negro vote put Bob Scott in the governor’s mansion—the same Bob Scott who
spent most of the campaign acting as though he didn’t give a hang about the blacks’ support. This is the
way Democrats in this state have played it for years now. In the first place, the Negro vote has never
been that important to them, but on the few occasions when it has been, the Tar Heel Democrats have been
able to use the national party’s accomplishments to get it. Consequently, they have never felt obliged to pay off any
political debts of gratitude, and the Negro in North Carolina has continued to rock along, riveted for the most part
to the slot of second-class citizenship. Occasionally a Democrat like Terry Sanford comes along with at least a tacit promise
for change, but Sanford backed down from the test of Sen. Sam Ervin, citing fear of a racial hate campaign.
And if Reginald Hawkins is any kind of indication, the state's Negroes are hurting for leaders among themselves.

Just maybe Bob Scott will be the man to help the Negro, despite the way he ran his campaign. Before
this fall, he had been pegged as a racial moderate with a measure of concern for North Carolina's black people,
and undoubtedly many Negroes were remembering this when they voted for him. Scott, unlike any North Carolina governor in history,
owes something to the Negro community for its votes. That much is undeniable. But it is far more than a
debt of gratitude that Scott and the Democrats owe the Negro.

Campus Melodrama

If it’s a little hypertension you want, may we recommend the melodrama acted out by the peace protestors and the
administration over the last couple of weeks? The whole affair simply got way out of hand, and one side is
just as guilty as the other.

The administration is guilty of overreacting. Judging by their behavior at least, two or three administrators apparently feared some kind
of image-damaging disruption on the part of the so-called “radical” students. But the kind of violent student radicalism they fear
is simply not at Davidson, as any one of the peace protestors will tell you. Their aim in protesting armed
forces recruiters was not disruption, just a presentation of alternatives. And they tried to make this clear.

By the same token, the protestors are guilty of over-reaction, too. The picture they somehow conjure up of a hostile,
inflexible, mired-in-the-status-quo administration is naive, to say the least, and the reaction of several to President Spencer’s stand on dissent
was pretty juvenile. Hopefully, both sides will see the real intentions of the other more clearly as the crisis subsides.
In the meantime, we conveniently divest ourselves of the responsibility of proposing a solution and merely counsel: cool it, guys.

Letters

Disagree with an editorial? Then write us a letter and say so. We welcome letters from any reader on any
subject—even when we get the rough edge. Not once in the paper’s recent history has THE DAVIDSONIAN refused to print
a signed letter. Letters received by 6 p.m. Tuesday will ordinarily be published in that Friday’s paper, provided there is
space available. Letters should be typed, double-spaced. We reserve the right to cut letters of more than 250 words and
to edit letters to conform to our style.

Abbott Praises Ellison

To The Editor:

In response to the lead editorial of the Nov. 1 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I should like to say two
or three things. The formal lecture is only one part of the work of a Reynolds Lecturer. While you may
speak of Ralph Ellison's “pitiful performance in chapel," you fail to acknowledge that Mr. Ellison made a number of other
performances, all of which to my thinking were brilliant. His reading from his new novel on Wednesday night was warmly
appreciated by his audience, and his handling of deep and complex issues during the coffee hour on Thursday after the
chapel talk was extraordinary. In the five years that I have been at Davidson I have not met a visitor
who handled questions and answers with so much grace, patience, and sensitivity. In other words, I think your editorial implied
that Mr. Ellison's visit was a failure, and that the committee made a mistake in inviting him. I would respond
that those who met Mr. Ellison and heard him at times other than his chapel talk were deeply impressed with
him as a human being, and thankful for his presence here.

Dr. Anthony S. Abbott
Associate Professor of English
Davidson College

Leaving Southern Is “Absurd” - Boyd

To The Editor:

I would like to make a few comments about Russ Merritt's article in the November 8 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Davidson's football team currently ranks better than Furman and VMI, and certainly would be capable of giving any team in
the Southern Conference a good game. Next year's team should be improved. Our tennis, soccer, and golf teams have all
been successful in the Southern and benefit from good competition and the goal of a conference championship. Admittedly our track,
cross-country, and swimming teams are outclassed, but they still get the benefits of a conference meet and scheduling ease.

In basketball, although we do have to play 10 Richmonds, Furmans, and East Carolinas, we still get 14 games versus
top-flight competition, and receive a virtual automatic bid to the NCAA playoffs. If Davidson should drop out...of the conference, football
would become a minor sport here (keep in mind that we beat Wofford 30-7 last year) and our minor sports
would be deprived of conference competition and championships. Although basketball might become more lucrative financially, our record would not be
improved by playing more teams like Duke and fewer like The Citadel, and competition among independents just won't hold water.
As for myself, I'd rather be 3-6 in the Southern than 8-1 in the Carolinas any day.

Howard Boyd, ‘72
Davidson College

Olson: Drink Abuse?
To The Editor:

I personally think that drinking on campus has been needed for a long time for a variety of reasons, none
of which have been expressed before. However, now that on-campus drinking is a reality I believe that too many students
are abusing their new freedom. I'm not knocking those students who see the value of alcohol as a means to
escape from reality into a world of oblivious stupor, but I do feel that they should show some responsibility in
the disposal of their empty beer cans and whiskey bottles. After last weekend I was disappointed in those who littered
the campus and the town with the empty containers of their spirit friends. This is a small point, but it
needs correcting.

Bill Olson, ’69
Davidson College

Whipping Post
By BOB REID
Associate Editor

A Reminder Of The Old Days
While the spirit of student responsibility hovers over the campus like the smell of gingko, the fraternity house curfew remains
as a reminder of what things were like in the old days. At one time there was a valid case
for curfews. Years ago when the houses were located in Jackson Court, residents of Concord Road used to complain about
the noise at night. Apparently feminine voices carry a long way at night. But in 1958 the chapters moved to
Patterson Court, where they remain a long way from sleepy townspeople. But the curfew is still there.

Then, as we all know, the college began trusting students (or at least acknowledging that they couldn't control them) and
the era of student responsibility began. As a result, students can drink in their rooms, but they cannot date in
their houses after a certain hour. Since there are no neighbors to complain about noise, the principal reason for the
curfews must be one of morals. Bluntly, some people in the administration must be afraid there will be sex in
the basements of Patterson Court if the regulation is abolished. Admittedly, the possibility of sex exists. According to a reliable
source, a fraternity housemother discovered such a situation several years ago. But for that matter, there will probably be gross
infractions of the drinking rule before Davidson goes out of business. The question of violations is irrelevant in this case.
The curfews are against the spirit of student responsibility. It is obvious to most people that it is inconsistent to
trust young men with alcohol and the Honor Code and not with matters of personal morality.

In a day when the notion of in loco parentis is going out of style, I do not understand why
the college maintains a paternalistic attitude on this matter. One of the arguments for lifting the ban on campus drinking
was that students could get soused a few miles from school anytime they wished. The same holds true here. And
most Davidson gentlemen would rather spend the night in a soft bed at Tabor’s Inn than on an aging couch
in their basement. And at Tabor's people wouldn't have to worry about a security guard interrupting an evening. Of course,
the problem of sex is deeper than that, and a solution involves more probing.

Don’t expect Dr. Spencer’s commissions to announce any startling proposals in the next few months. If they do, they didn’t
do their jobs. As everyone knows, the problems to be tackled by the commission can’t be grasped quickly. For instance,
I wonder how the commission on social life can reach any conclusions until its counterpart on co-education finishes its work.
Opening the college to women might drastically affect patterns of social life at Davidson. Coeducation might also alter the pattern
for Davidson’s future development. Money which might have gone to raising salaries, building laboratories, or buying books would have to
be used to construct new dormitories, hire a dean of women, and renovate the gym to accommodate girls’ physical education
classes. But if Davidson increased the student body, it would need new classrooms, laboratories, and a dozen other facilities. In
formulating its proposals, the commission will have to study these questions and determine answers for them. The problem might boil
down to a question of whether or not Davidson is willing to suspend much of its development in order to
admit women.

The commission dealing with the role of the church probably has the most ticklish assignment. For one thing, it may
be hard for them to gather evidence. The relationship of Davidson and the Presbyterians is not something that can be
measured by statistics. True, Davidson receives little money from the Church. But how many people contribute to the school because
of its religious affiliation?

In a sense, Davidson might be called a closed educational system. These alumni came here in the days when the
Church played a major role in student life. If that role were further diminished, would these alumni desert the fold,
and as a result, cost Davidson its principal source of students? Could the college afford this temporary loss?

Good Luck.
