DUNHAM ADVISES SC SECESSION (See Page Three) TRICE HITS Q&C, GETS HIT BACK (See Page Four)

VOL. LVII

Cascading coke cans — a final exam in art? Really. Sophomore Tom Bersuder built a circular column of 1200 empty
soft drink cans to the top of the Morrison Room in the Union, and then induced its downfall yesterday by
judicial application of Newton’s law of gravity — he pulled out the bottom row of cans. (Staff Photo by Weems.)

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1968

NEEDED: MORE DREAMING

Blue Sky “Only The Start”

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Managing Editor

When the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities examined Davidson in 1966, the prescription was “some dreaming.” Blue Sky was
the result, but only the start, according to philosophy professor Earl MacCormac. Describing Davidson as “a very good institution, but...
not excellent," MacCormac forecast an evolution of the college in the direction of more independent study, but said that this
direction of change requires more emotional maturity on the part of students.

An engineering major at Yale who ended up in philosophy, MacCormac has been one of the main spokesmen for the
progressive sector of the faculty and a thorn in the side of an often earthbound administration. In the words but
not the manner of an enthusiastic preacher — he’s sometimes compared to Minnesota Senator Eugene McCarthy — he demands “a
passionate commitment to the truth and to the moral and spiritual renewal of society” from all connected with the college.

MacCormac singled out the decline in applicants and the foot-dragging on the Honors College and Non-Western Studies Program as especially
crucial. Applications have dropped 300 over two years, he said, and the percentage of acceptances is near an all-time low.
Because the ability of the college to upgrade its curriculum depends on the maturity and ability of the students, reasoned
MacCormac, and the college is not attracting these students, the college should rethink its admissions policy.

Both the Honors College for its enlivening effect and the Non-Western Studies program for the broadening it generates are essential
to the Blue Sky concept, he maintained. MacCormac noted that little progress was apparent on implementation of both programs, attributed
it to the current changes in process in the college administration, and then expressed fear that inertia would prevail.

Asked to do some dreaming about what an ideal program of liberal arts education would be, MacCormac first pointed out
that no one system would be the best, and then suggested that students should have more independent study. “I'd provide
a period of exploration at the start," he mused. The freshmen would spend their year investigating various outlooks and learning
through tutorials, but not taking courses. “Students do not appreciate a field until they take a course in it, and
then it’s too late.” MacCormac suggested a second year of independent reading and study for area exams, with lab and
course work in the general area of concentration. The junior year would have increased concentration in the major, while the
senior year would be a research project in that area.

In the midst of all this would be several “convocations” a year — five or 10 days of concentrated exposure
of the entire college to a social, religious or moral problem, interrupting the normal pattern of the college. Possible topics
might be the role of the body, with its contributions to areas from sexuality to intellectual insight, or the consequences
of the car on modern life.

To have this program, MacCormac postulated a communal emotional security, a commitment to the process of education, and maturity on
the part of students. “Students should prod professors to new thoughts and professors enlighten students with depth of learning and
wisdom of time,” he said.

When asked about the presidency of the college, MacCormac said that the next president must be one who is concerned
with the pursuit of truth, academic freedom and educational quality.

NUMBER TWENTY-NINE

Trustees’ Agenda, Date Still Pending

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-In-Chief

Neither the date nor the agenda of the special meeting of the Board of Trustees has yet been decided, Chairman
Walter L. Lingle Jr. said this week. Lingle did say, however, that the meeting, decided on two weeks ago by
the board when it postponed action on two decisions, would definitely not be held until after school is over May
30.

What is on the agenda will be determined in part by what happens between now and then in the search
for a new president and what comes out of a detailed study of the report of the Committee on Rules
and Punishments (CRAP), he said. The CRAP Report will be on the agenda, Lingle said in a telephone interview from
Cincinnati, Ohio, if a legal review of the judiciary section has been completed. The trustees took no action on the
report at their spring meeting when questions about its compatibility with state laws were raised. Board members also said they
wanted more time to study the final version of the report. Lingle said that “one of the better (legal) firms
in North Carolina,” had undertaken a study of the report, “but how long it will take we just don't know.”

A resolution docketed two weeks ago that would eliminate the present trustee requirement that the president of the college be
a member of the Presbyterian Church when elected may also be on the agenda, Lingle said. But he left open
the possibility that the 4-man trustee selection committee of which he is chairman might have a successor to D. Grier
Martin picked by the time of the meeting. “There's always the chance that we will have the presidency to vote
on (at the special meeting),” he said. “But there's a lot of work to be done before that can be
determined.

“It will probably be another three or four weeks before we'll know.” Lingle indicated that the board would probably name
an interim president in the event that it has not decided on a new president by June 30, when Martin
officially steps down. The last time the trustees were deliberating over a new president—1958—they named Dean of Faculty C. J.
Pietenpol acting president until the 15-month search was completed.

The date of a special meeting of the trustees is decided by the chairman, after consultation with other members of
the board, Lingle said. A special meeting has to have a stated agenda and can only be called with 10
days notice, he said.

Honor Goes To Martin

Dr. D. Grier Martin was made an honorary member of the Davidson chapter of Delta Phi Alpha, the national German
honor society, today during chapel period. The short ceremony took place in Chambers. Paul C. Fisher, faculty adviser of the
organization, said that the honorary membership was given to Martin in order “to recognize the interest that he has shown
throughout his tenure in the study of modern languages, particularly in the junior year abroad program.” Fisher also credited Martin
for “being partly responsible for establishing a permanent German seminar room.” The society will present a collection of the works
of Frederich Schiller for the German seminar room in the name of Martin.

LAST ISSUE

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN concludes publication for the 1967-68 year. Publication will resume next September.

ACP Lauds Paper: You Write Like Pros

“You guys write like pros. Your entry blank says you have no adviser, that none of you get paid—and that
Davidson has no journalism courses. You are a threat to journalism educators.” So said the Associated Collegiate Press in giving
THE DAVIDSONIAN its 12th straight All-American Award, the highest rating possible. The award was for the first semester of 1967-68,
under the editorship of Sam Boyte. The newspaper received 3890 points out of a possible 4000. The most heavily criticized
area was...Photography, while the evaluation highly praised the “DAVIDSONIAN Report” and “Campus Comment.” Criticism of the photography centered around the
use of art for the sake of art and the lack of contrast in the technical quality of the pictures.

IFC Reviews Rush Rules; Letter Sets Off Discussion

The Interfraternity Council discussed its newly-adopted rush rules for next year Tuesday night as students reacted both pro and con
on the 100 percent bidding proposal of senior Bill Seigler in a letter in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN. IFC adviser Jim
Terry reported that the new rush schedule passed in the previous meeting would require faculty approval. He indicated, however, that
the chances for such approval were good. Rush is set for the first week in the winter term.

In addition to the Thursday-through-Sunday rush schedule, there will be a “period of silence” or “no-contact” time during the Christmas
break preceding rush, and tentatively no period of silence from the end of Christmas break until the Wednesday preceding the
first day of rush. Freshman dormitories will be off limits to all upperclassmen except hall counselors from the Monday preceding
rush through the next Monday when bids have been returned.

The discussion of 100 percent possibilities presented in Seigler's letter last week has drawn varied reaction, most favoring the present
extended rush system. IFC President Bobby Vagt, for example, said that the present system “speaks well for itself.” Out of
the 25 students participating in the extended rush program, he continued, 13 have received bids. Vagt noted that with the
adoption of a 100 percent system, the fraternities would run the serious risk of losing national charters. Terry termed the
proposal “a little bit unreasonable; I wouldn't say completely, however. The students have become a lot more mature in their
attitude toward fraternities.” SGA President Joe Murphy said that he agreed that Davidson should take greater initiative in such proposals
“instead of waiting around for 40 or 50 schools to do something first.” But, he noted, “I don’t think you
could ever get fraternity approval. It will not work unless it is accepted completely.” In commenting on his own letter,
Seigler stressed that he thought the extended rush system was “a vast improvement over the old system and is working
well. The fraternity presidents did a fine job and are to be commended.”

Johnson Serves Negro Customers

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Student leaders of the barber shop boycott group called off the boycott of Johnson's Barber Shop this week; the owner,
Ralph Johnson, began serving Negro customers there May 7. Johnson declined comment on the action. However, Tony Knox, one of
his employees, said, “I think it was the right thing to do.” Another barber, James Raeford, agreed with Knox. “It's
something that had to be done, and I'm glad he did it. It takes a lot of pressure off us,
the employees, and I think we will profit by it,” he said.

The integration of the barber shop followed several weeks of boycotting and a week of picketing by students, although most
student activity had already died down when the barber shop was integrated. The Davidson faculty had also endorsed a student-sponsored
resolution calling for integration of the barber shop, a public accommodations ordinance for Davidson, a request for trustee endorsement of
the resolution, and support for possible establishment of an open barber shop should Johnson refuse to integrate his shop. Several
members of the faculty also had formed an informal committee, headed by Dr. Dan Rhodes of the Bible Department, to
seek a compromise with Johnson, including an offer of financial support. Johnson turned down the professors’ offers earlier.

Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson had set up a Mayor's Committee to study a plan for a Davidson public accommodations
ordinance. No definite action has been taken by the Town Council. “I can understand how Mr. Johnson feels after 40
years of running a segregated business,” Raeford said, “but it was time for something to be done.”

Cumming Opens Doors To British Year Abroad

The door to England's crowded universities has been pried open by a Davidson College English professor, allowing the school to
begin its first Junior Year in England program this fall. Dr. William P. Cumming, former chairman of the English Department,
has spent a number of years during his academic career studying in the universities of England. This year he persuaded
the University of East Anglia in Norwich, England, to accept two Davidson students for 1968-69, despite crowded enrollments in all
of that country’s universities. Programs for junior year study in Montpellier, France, and Marburg, Germany, were set up by Davidson
in 1964-65, allowing about a dozen students to attend a university in each of the two countries. Tom Hart of
Collinsville, Conn., is the first applicant accepted for the program in England.

Davidson Philosophy Professor Alan B. Brinkley was elected president of the newly formed chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union
in Charlotte Wednesday night. Brinkley, who was chairman of the 7-man committee which drafted the faculty constitution last year, is
president-elect of the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors. Brinkley was elected to the top post by
the directors of the group at the organizational meeting.

Free University Plans 20 Courses From Art Through Zen Buddhism

Will Davidson College offer a course in auto mechanics? It is a possibility, according to Rich Cowart, chairman of the
SGA Free University Committee. Cowart said the new curriculum will offer courses of practical, general, and academic interest in areas
of interest taught at Davidson. The curriculum is a part of a new college which will begin operations next year.
“The topics to be studied will be up to students,” said Cowart. “Possibilities are unlimited.” Topics suggested so far include
Zen-Buddhism, art, and auto mechanics. “The courses will be non-graded, and taught by faculty members. Each course will meet for
one quarter, one or two hours a week, probably on Tuesday nights,” said Cowart. The joint student-faculty committee recently changed
its name from Experimental College to Free University because the program is no longer experimental. Wake Forest and the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill have already established similar programs. The committee also hopes to brighten up the program
by working in conjunction with Queens College. In this way, students will have an opportunity to meet girls in an
atmosphere other than a purely social one, according to Cowart. “We hope to have 20 courses to start with, each
composed of 10 students,” Cowart said. “One course will be the poverty course proposed by STEP. Our plan is to
incorporate the various study groups now established into one curriculum, along with many new courses.”

Senate Misses Quorum Twice; Bylaws Deferred

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate failed twice this week to obtain a quorum and postponed until Monday the final passage of the
student bylaws. Six of the 14 articles in the bylaws remain unapproved by the Senate. Only six senators showed at
the regular Tuesday evening meeting of the Senate. SGA President Joe Murphy then called a special meeting for Thursday in
order to give final approval to the bylaws before the end of the year but only five senators were present.
Eight senators constitute a quorum. The Senate has been plagued by poor attendance in the last few weeks. Curiously enough,
earlier in the semester the Senate waived until the 1968-69 school term a section in the standing rules of the
Senate which would impose a financial penalty on senators guilty of excessive absence. At present, the Senate has approved eight
articles of the proposed bylaws, including the standing rules. Other articles approved include oath of office, elections, duties of SGA
officers, judicial provisions, freshman matters, and chartering. Articles remaining to be approved consist of SGA agencies, SGA publications, finances, Senate
officers, impeachment, amendment of the constitution and referendum, and amendment of the bylaws.
