EXAM SCHEDULE Second Semester 1968

Wednesday a.m. first hour classes Tue., Thur., Sat. May 22 p.m.
Thursday a.m. first hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. May 23 p.m.
second hour classes Tue., Thur., Sat. Friday a.m. May 24 p.m.
fifth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Saturday a.m. third hour classes Tue., Thur., Sat. May 25 p.m.
Monday a.m. ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42 May 27 p.m.
third hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Tuesday a.m. May 28 p.m.
second hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. Wednesday a.m. fourth hour classes Tue., Thur., Sat. May 29 p.m.
Thursday a.m. sixth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri. May 30 p.m.
fourth hour classes Mon., Wed., Fri.

24 Selected For Study At Montpelier, Marburg

Twenty-four students will spend next year in Montpelier, France, and in Marburg, Germany, in the Junior Year Abroad program. Dr.
George Labban, professor of Greek, will accompany the group to Montpelier, and Prof. Paul Fisher, instructor of German, will go
to Marburg.

Bill Bowman, Edgar Callaway, Marshall Feaster, Steve Haigler, Frank Heiner, Mac Hobby, David Matthews, Ben Moore, Jimmy Milholland, John Puckett,
Doug Stott, and Dan Vinson will spend the year at Marburg. Hugh Baskin, Ken Cool, Wright Caughman, Sam Darby, Deno
Economou, Joe Hughes, Joe Jones, George Moskos, Pat Mullen, Vernon Odom, John Rowe, and David Scott will study at Montpelier.

STUDENT RESPONSE POOR Faculty Wants Open House

By PAUL SCHNEIDER Staff Writer

The Sunday evening Open House program continues to receive faculty and administration support despite poor student response. Two Sundays ago,
the last time the homes were opened, five faculty and administration members unanimously backed the program. Student attendance that night
ranged from a low of zero to a high of eight.

“When you meet a great man it is wise to beat a path to his door, and I think the
perceptive students will discover that there are a number of great men on the Davidson faculty and will beat a
path to their offices, classrooms, and homes whenever they have an opportunity,” said William Bondurant, assistant to the president.

Several professors thought that students misjudged faculty when they stayed away from homes because of fear of “apple-polishing.” “I don't
like to pressure students,” said Dr. Thomas Pinkerton, professor of German, “but I am really very much interested in having
students come into faculty homes.”

LEANING AGAINST THE MASONRY Bert Mason due back for Hungry d.

Bert Mason Will Return To Highlight Hungry d

Entertainer Bert Mason will headline the Hungry d, Davidson's nightclub, Monday through Saturday. Mason, who appeared at a midnight concert,
Homecoming ‘67, is returning to the Union Board's first Hungry d with two shows at 8 and 10 p.m. Mason,
who bills himself as a personality on the coffee house circuit, got three standing ovations from a crowd of 300
students who would not let him leave.

Revolution is the theme of the season's first Hungry d, and Union coffee house chairman Ken Rice plans appropriate decorations.
Tickets for any night cost $1; however, this year season tickets will be available. This season ticket will be sold
for $2.50, saving the buyer 50 cents. From April 8-13, the second Hungry d will star The Saxons, a folksinging
group that gives popular renditions to chamber music. The Dickens, a pop group, will headline the season's final Hungry d,
April 29-May 4.

The Hungry d is the creation of C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union. Since Smith began the event
here two years ago, the idea has caught on with a number of other schools. Last fall Leonda, a folk
singer, appeared for a week at the Hungry d.

STAMP IT! IT’S THE RAGE

REGULAR

Send check or money order, sure to include your Zip Code. No handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. Satisfaction
Guaranteed.

THE MOPP CO. P.O. Box 18623 Lenox Square Station ATLANTA, GA., 30326

This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.

michel: 375-9723 217 N. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

A New Shipment BANLONS by Van Heusen in all colors 6.00 Holds its shape permanently. Machine washable and dryable.

There are many minor problems for faculty and students. Faculty wives are usually unsure as to what preparations to make
for refreshments. Students frequently have difficulty finding transportation to outlying faculty homes. Dr. William Frey, assistant professor of physics, said
that both students who visited his home were physics majors, but that he liked it that way because a common
interest was shared and the small number enabled the students to find out more about themselves and the professor.

Dr. Max Polley, professor of religion, has had three open houses this year, some by formal announcement and some with
personal invitations to classes. He said, “It has worked out quite well for me so far.”

Faculty interest is strong. Most of the professors who had open houses this past Sunday also participate actively in freshmen
adviser capacities in which they attempt to have the students to their homes. The problem is student interest. “The question
I have been unable to answer is whether this is fulfilling any need for students.”

Concert Versus Tourney

Concert weekend entertainer Glenn Yarbrough may have to jockey for starting times with the Davidson Wildcats March 16. The concert
was originally scheduled for 8 p.m., but the Social Council plans to wait until after tomorrow's Davidson-St. John’s basketball game
before making final arrangements, according to Chairman Charles Cameron.win Saturday’s game, the next game will be the following Saturday in
Raleigh. According to Cameron, if the team makes it to the regional tournament in Raleigh, the Social Council will make
an attempt to reschedule the concert for the afternoon. “We just aren’t sure that we can get the concert time
changed," said Cameron, “but we will do everything possible to allow all of the students to attend both the concert
and the tournament.” If the concert is rescheduled, it will probably be moved to 4 p.m., Cameron noted. The concert
will be presented in Love Auditorium, and student identification cards will be checked.

GOOD LUCK, ‘CATS! in the regional playoffs

Clothes for the Pace-Setting Traditionalist
John Eck & Son
Our 56th Year
Mooresville

“the students or whether they might prefer spending their time in other ways," said Dr. Richard Cole, professor of English.
“I would predict that if faculty really felt more students would come there would be more open houses,” he added.

Council Considers Mundane
By ROBERT PYEATT
Asst. Managing Editor

A lackadaisical Student Council screened applicants for SGA courts Tuesday night in a mundane 45-minute session that ended with most
of the members going “up the road.” President Tom Earnhardt assigned half of the room to conduct the Court of
Appeals screening and the other half to the Student Government Court candidates. Council members running for SGA president were permitted
to leave in order to campaign. Council members expressed their individual preferences about each nominee, crossing various names off the
list and dismissing candidates they did not know or did not like. After about 20 minutes of weighing qualifications, the
council adjourned and most of the members said they were going “up the road.”

The council also discussed the 260 books missing from the library and voted to conduct a voluntary dormitory search for
the books. The council also voted to adopt Article IV of the SGA bylaws concerning elections. A paragraph outlawing write-in
candidates was deleted. Clauses in the article prohibit a fifth-year student from running for an office restricted to a particular
class. Previous selection procedures of the council have involved personal interviews with applicants for council-appointed positions, although sometimes those who
were not interviewed were appointed.

Under the new elections bylaws, candidates for editor must be approved by the Publications Board. All vacancies in office are
to be filled by the SGA Senate except for editors, SGA president, and Honor Court.

One faculty member said that Mrs. Leah Porat's chapel talk was much like an encyclopedia. Mrs. Porat, program director of
the Israel Broadcasting Company, rattled off facts and figures. Israel wants “the people of America to get a deeper understanding
of a country like ours,” Mrs. Porat said. The Romanian-born woman described Israel as “a country like any other —
miniskirts, pop music, discotheques, all the phases of modern culture.” She emphasized that “a deeper understanding is important.” In explaining
“why Jews wanted to have a homeland,” Mrs. Porat said that for 2,000 years the only place they saw as
their home was the Holy Land and Jerusalem. At a Union coffee hour following her speech, Mrs. Porat answered questions
about the Six Day War. “We didn't want the war; it was forced upon us,” Mrs. Porat said.

In her speech, Mrs. Porat explained Israel's immigration policy. “The fundamental law of the foundation of the state (has been)
that any Jew ... can come there” regardless of physical or educational conditions which might now prohibit immigration to other
states. “The greatest educator and the greatest inspiration in Israel is the Israeli army,” Mrs. Porat said. She added that
all 18-year-olds, including girls and excluding conscientious objectors, are inducted. In the army, they are taught subjects including languages and
skills in addition to regular military training.

HARRIS’ LAKE FISH CAMP
3 Miles East of Odell School on Highway 73
Detour — Follow Signs
We Cater To Fraternity Parties!
Contact Wayne Furr At 782-8998 in Concord.
— Must have 25 people at least — a week or more...

AS HUNDREDS OF COLLEGE GUYS AND GALS HAVE SUMMERTIMES with...

Yes, you put in lots of hours but...

Meet people, make new friends

Good Humor Ice Cream

You're trained and work on routes where people have bought Good Humor Ice Cream for years... no investment... everything supplied.

HOW YOU QUALIFY FOR INTERVIEW
1. Minimum age 18.
2. Need a valid driver's license... and must be able to drive a clutch transmission.
3. Be in good physical condition.

Sign Up Now For Our Campus Visit
Ask your Summer Placement Director or Student Aid Officer to schedule you for our campus visit or write to:

GOOD HUMOR, Dept. A.
800 Sylvan Avenue
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 07632

INTERVIEW DATE: March 21
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)
