REPORT EXAMINES GRADUATES (See Page Three)

VOL. LVII

TO THE DAVIDSON STUDENT BODY: DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036. FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1968

I have never been more surprised and overwhelmed than I was Tuesday when I came to Assembly to make a
brief talk and ended up with what must be the greatest surprise of my life - the most beautiful color
television set I have ever seen or heard. In addition, it has radio (A.M. and F.M.) and a record player.
My wife and I thank you very much for your generosity, but I think we appreciate even more the tremendous
demonstration which you gave us with your applause. How glad we are that we will live in this community and
have the privilege of associating with you and the Davidsonians who will follow you.

President D. Grier Martin received a standing ovation and a color television from appreciative students during chapel Tuesday. Martin was
there to deliver a speech on the role of moderates in society as the keynote speaker for the Omicron Delta
Kappa tapping. The presentation of the combined television, record-player, and tape recorder console followed the speech and took Martin by
surprise. The gift was financed by donations from students. Martin, who was elected in 1958, announced last January he was
resigning June 30. He succeeded Dr. John R. Cunningham as president.

Open Dorm Experiment Scheduled For May 11

Both Richardson and Duke dormitories will be open to women visitors on Saturday, May 11, from 7 to 10 p.m.,
according to Peter Hobbie, president of the Residence Hall Association. Hobbie said that Richardson and Duke were chosen because "they
have had less damage done to them and the greatest enthusiasm for open dorms will probably be generated from their
residents. There is the largest cross-section of the upper three classes in Richardson," continued Hobbie, "and we hope that these
students will volunteer their opinions of the open dorm system and suggest any changes that they would like to see
made." Hobbie reported that the RHA committee chose Duke because it is constructed by suites and was considered suitable for
Davidson's first attempt at open dorms. Hobbie was confident that open dorms on a regular schedule will soon be a
reality at Davidson. "By this experimental opening of Duke and Richardson, we are trying to keep both students and faculty
informed of the progress toward the opening of all the dormitories," he said.

Fund Drive Shoots To $1700

Over $1700 has been collected so far in the Negro Scholarship Fund, said Rick Harrell Thursday night. Explaining that over
$500 had come in Thursday, Harrell said that he was confident that the fund would go over the required $2400.
"There are voids where a whole bunch of people just haven’t reported yet," he said. Most of the freshmen reports
are in, and a large proportion of sophomores and juniors, he said, but the Senior Class is behind. The scholarship
drive came when psychology professor W. G. Workman responded to a March 21 DAVIDSONIAN editorial with an offer to put
up $100 for a Negro scholarship if students would raise $2400.

Senate Vote Kills Diving Penalty

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

The Senate twice defeated this week a proposal which would have recommended to the faculty that students who "dive" reviews
should be required to stay in the infirmary for 24 hours. The recommendation was defeated 4-4 Tuesday and 4-6 Thursday.
Seven votes are required for passage. SGA President Joe Murphy presented the proposal after a conference with Dean of Students
Richard C. Burts, Dr. J. D. Woods, and Honor Court Chairman Bill Williams. "Diving reviews is certainly becoming a serious
problem because Dr. Woods says he has to believe everyone who comes to the infirmary," said Murphy. "This offense is
not covered under the Honor Code, but it is certainly a violation of the spirit of the code," he said.
Freshman adviser Larry Slade, who voted against the proposal, said he thought the Senate was taking a negative view of
the situation and not considering the students who were really sick. However, senator C. L. Cheshire, favoring the rule, claimed
the diving was unfair to students who take the

ODK Selects 14 Leaders

Eight seniors and six juniors were tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, during chapel Tuesday. Senior psychology major
Eddie Beach is captain of the swimming team, a hall counselor and a member of Phi Delta Theta. Steve Brown,
senior, is a physics major, member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and president of Sigma Pi Sigma, physics
honorary. Mike Carroll is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, chairman of the Committee on Rules and Punishments and a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha. He is a history major. German major Woody Faulk is a member of Sigma Chi,
and studied in Germany his junior year. Junior Don Gately, a math major, is editor of "Quips and Cranks" and
a member of Phi Delta Theta. Marshall Guill, a junior pre-med major, is president of the YMCA, vice-president of the
IFC and a member of Phi Delta Theta. Robbie Hooker is editor of DAVIDSONIAN, a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
freshman honorary, and Sigma Phi Epsilon. He is a junior history honors major. Junior Wayne Huckel, a psychology major, is
a member of the Honor Court, the basketball team and Phi Delta Theta. Mike May, a senior biology major, is
a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the Student Council and Pi Kappa Phi. SGA President Joe Murphy is a junior
economics major, member of Sigma Chi and Alpha Tau Omega. Senior political science major Tom Peddicord is national director of
Project of the Americas, a Dana Scholar and a Guttman Scholar. Senior Mike Powell, a political science major, served as
president of his junior class, a member of the Constitution Revision Committee and Pi Kappa Phi. Bruce Welhe, a history
major, was vice-president of the senior class, publicity manager of PRAM and a member of Sigma Chi. Honor Court chairman
Bill Williams, a pre-med major, is a hall counselor and member of PRAM and Pi Kappa Alpha.

Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

EARNHARDT HITS REID’S COLUMN (See Page Two)

NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

CRAP Proposals Readied For Vote

Major Decisions Loom For Board

A topheavy agenda that still the Committee on Rules and Punishments (CRAP).

BULLETIN

In search of a solution to the ROTC question, the faculty this afternoon took consideration of a recommendation of a
joint faculty-trustee committee.Hobbie: “The dorms will come to us and tell the RHA when they would like to be open.”

Davidson is based on a system of competition for grades, so the person who dives a review acquires an unfair
advantage when he gets an extra week to study," he said.

At least three important decisions will be facing the Board of Trustees when it meets here next week. The 49-man
board, which will probably take up the non-compulsory ROTC question again, is also expected to take action on the report
of Q&C.

Cranks Out Historic Croquet Win

Led by the “unscrupulous” methods of DAVIDSONIAN Photography Editor W. B. ‘Wild Bill” Olson, ‘The Quips and Cranks" won its
first croquet match in the history of the school Saturday. Olson was chosen by a bored DAVIDSONIAN Staff to represent
the Q&C when—as is traditional—the Q&C and “The Miscellany” both failed to respond to the annual DAVIDSONIAN challenge. Robbie Hooker,
editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, captained the newspaper's effort. Olson’s victory was the result of knocking Hooker’s ball off the court
five times. Hooker never got past the third wicket. R. D. “Aristotle” Anderson, also representing THE DAVIDSONIAN, lost his ball
to Olson only twice, but Olson almost knocked out four spectators as he hit Anderson’s ball into a densely populated
sunbathing area the first time.

STUDENTS EXAMINE CODE

Questionnaires Reveal Honor Violations

Second of Two Articles
By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

It's a short statement of policy, succinct, clear, and binding upon all students. Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain
from cheating, stealing, and lying under oath. Every student shall be honor-bound to report immediately all violations of the honor
system which come under his observation. Such a statement of honor has no purpose unless that statement is supported by
all students. Some Davidson students don't. In two separate questionnaires, at least 38 students said that they had violated the
honor code here at least once. The total has only a relative significance, however. Like all questionnaires, the results must
be considered in their relation to the sample. And the effectiveness of the honor system here must be judged relative
to its general effectiveness and in comparison to other schools’ systems.

THE DAVIDSONIAN recently asked 27 students to fill out a questionnaire on the honor system. Twenty-one students completed the questionnaire
and returned it by mail to ensure anonymity. The students were asked merely to circle the appropriate answers. Nine seniors,
seven juniors, seven sophomores, and four freshmen were sent questionnaires. The sample included representatives of each fraternity on campus and
a 1:4 ratio of independents to fraternity men. Out of the 21 who responded, nine students said that they had
violated the honor code at Davidson. Eleven students knew of other students who had violated the code. Eleven students said
that they would turn in another student for an honor code violation. Eight said they would not. One student gave
a tentative “no” answer, and one student gave a tentative “yes” answer. None of the 21 students had ever reported
an honor code violation.

A questionnaire of this type can only reflect the viewpoints of a limited number of students. It can only suggest
trends of thought among students; it cannot judge the relative effectiveness of the honor system. This questionnaire does not show
how many students have cheated, how many have lied under oath, or how many have stolen or how many have
committed any combination of these violations. One student added a note to his questionnaire: “This questionnaire is ridiculous because the
circumstances are unknown. Strict yes and no answers are not appropriate.” Another student wrote that the “circumstances, seriousness, or probability”
would determine whether he would report another student's violation.

In another questionnaire, sent out by the Honor Court, 40 students out of 146, about 25 percent, said that they
had seen or suspected a violation of the honor code and failed to report it. By Wednesday, 161 students, mostly
upperclassmen and all members of a fraternity, had answered at least part of the Honor Court questionnaire. The questionnaires were
filled out at the fraternity houses and collected there. The remaining fraternities, freshmen, and independents will also be asked to
fill out the questionnaires, according to Bill Williams, Honor Court chairman. Only 29 students out of 146, or 18.1 percent,
said that they had committed an honor offense at Davidson.

In addition, the trustees may name a successor to retiring President D. Grier Martin. The presidential selection process has been
veiled in secrecy since Martin stepped down last January, but Trustee Chairman Walter L. Lingle, Jr., has indicated that his
4-man trustee selection committee would be shooting for a decision by the May meeting. The ROTC question, which was referred
to a joint trustee-faculty committee last December, is likely to be on the agenda, depending in part on what the
faculty did with the matter this afternoon at its special meeting. If the CRAP report is approved by the student
body and faculty next week, it will also be on the agenda. The trustees will meet in their committees Thursday
night following an open dinner, then conduct a general business session on Friday. The board will wind up its affairs
Friday night with a dinner honoring the retiring Martin. The recommendation and the faculty's decision will not be available for
publication until after next week’s trustee meeting, according to Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. The ROTC matter was referred
to the joint committee last December by the trustees.

Homer’s Trial Reset For May

The trial of Lew Homer, Davidson College junior arrested April 6 by Mecklenburg County police, has been reset for May
27. Originally charged with disturbing the peace, Homer will also be charged with assaulting an officer at the new trial.
He received the summons for the new trial yesterday, which was the original date set for his trial.

By EDWIN SHOAF
Staff Writer

The Committee on Rules and Punishment (CRAP) ironed out the last of the misconceptions and verbal difficulties seen in the
CRAP report by the faculty Student Life Committee when the committees met together during lunch Wednesday. The meeting paved the
way for a student body vote on the report Monday. The final copy of the CRAP report will be distributed
to the students this weekend. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said that the faculty might not vote on the
report next Tuesday at their meeting. The faculty Student Life Committee will present the proposals to that meeting. Burts said
that the faculty could not vote on the Residence Hall Association (RHA) Constitution or the Student Government Association (SGA) Constitution
until CRAP is acted on because of possible conflicts. If the CRAP report passes, the judicial section of the (See
CRAP, Page 6).
