Page Four, December 6, 1968

Campus Comment

Students React To Food Rating

These students who eat in the Union were asked the following question: “What is your reaction to the ‘C’ rating given the college cafeteria?”

Jeff Duffey, senior: “The rating is indicative of the quality of the food.”

Norwood Poland, sophomore: “The rating is a recognition of an unfavorable condition. Hopefully, this will result in better eating conditions.”

John Porter, freshman: “I don't think the food and service is all that bad. I heard it was because of some open trash cans. It’s really not that bad.”

Steve Baldwin, freshman: “With a little tutoring, maybe Kleeberg can get it up to a ‘C plus,’ but he'll never make the Dean's List.”

Children, Robinson Star In ‘Mr. Popper’

By CECIL BURNEY
Staff Writer

Mark Robinson, a Davidson senior, will have the leading role of “Mr. Popper” in the Children's Drama Workshop's forthcoming production of “Mr. Popper's Penguins.” The play, written by Albert O. Mitchell, will be performed in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Building tomorrow at 10:30 a.m., 2 and 4 p.m.

In addition to the members of the workshop, composed of children from the Davidson community, the play will feature Lyn Montague, Professor Rupert T. Barber Jr., and Mrs. Ellen Winkler, wife of Professor Julius S. Winkler. Sets for the play have been designed by Professor Hansford Epes Jr., and constructed by Mike LaPlante.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads

Professor Wilmer Welsh of the Music Department has written special music for the production. The entire production is under the supervision of Mrs. Constance Welsh, director of the Children’s Drama Workshop. Tickets will be available at the box office on Saturday.

SAVE ‘Breaking in’

Why suffer the discomfort of “Breaking in” a new pair of shoes? — that old pair, still good, can be rebuilt like new! BRING ‘EM IN!

EXPERTLY
McKISSICK’S SHOE SHOP
Main Street Davidson, N.C.

CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Good Luck WILDCATS in your Basketball and in your Exams and Do Your CHRISTMAS SHOPPING early at Mooresville

For 56th Year: Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist

The Davidsonian

WE REPAIR SHOES

Davidson Receives Control Of TV Time

By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Plans are being made by several students for the establishment of a monthly television series on Davidson. Stimulated by the offer of a Charlotte television station to air such a program, the students hope to begin the series Feb. 20.

According to Roger Powell, currently in charge of the series, “The program offers great potential for Davidson College if we can arouse enough interest to make it effective. It would allow not only for publicity, but would also be an outlet for the expression of student opinion and the demonstration of campus talent.”

Under present plans, the show would vary in format, with interviews, discussion, and entertainment periodically offered. Plans are being considered for the first show; however, a concrete format has not been established at present.

Powell, working with the Union Publicity Committee, noted that, “There are several major problems remaining in the filming of the program.” The principal difficulty remaining seems to be a financial one. Handicapped by the lack of funds, the group has been unable to secure financial assistance from the college's Office of Public Information. If the program is carried out in Charlotte television studios, the program could be produced at relatively low cost. However, Powell stressed that the difficulty in such an arrangement is that visiting lecturers and entertainment groups, possible subjects of the show, would be unwilling to appear if the program were in Charlotte. Powell said, “Each of these problems can probably be solved if the college community feels that such a program would be worthwhile.”

OPEN HOUSE

These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:

P. Nicholls 602 N. Main
Brown Patterson H 412 Concord
Max E. Polley Ney Circle
T. A. Williams 609 N. Main

Open House Opportunities Are Used More This Year

“There is no need for division in communication between faculty and students here at Davidson,” says Dan Graham. The Open House Program which Graham manages is apparently successful this year in improving communication between these groups. Graham's program, revitalized by Don Hoyt and operated under the auspices of the YMCA, has arranged for 28 open houses in the last two months. Faculty members invite the members of the student body into their homes on Sunday nights under this program. Speaking of the importance of the Open House program at Davidson, Graham said, “I think one of the strongest things about Davidson is the possibility of close student-faculty relationships, it gives us a chance to know each other.”as human beings instead of just on a professional student-professional teacher basis.” Attendance has been high this year, Graham said, especially among freshmen. The longer weekends help now, with no Saturday classes to free time for attendance at these functions, he said. “The outlook for this program for this year is good," Graham said, “for faculty and administration officials have shown a real interest, and students seem to be receptive to the idea. We look forward to a successful year."

Class Enrollments Vary

Registrar J. H. Ostwalt said Tuesday that course enrollments are averaging about the same as last year in size, although the range runs from 63 to three. “Most introductory courses are fairly full,” he said. “There are two reasons classes may seem larger.” “We have a reduced teaching load, so there are fewer courses,” said the registrar. Average teaching load is two courses, he said, while average student course load is three. Ostwalt suggested that some courses that attract only two or three students may be offered only in alternate years in the future.

After World War II, American veterans returning from Europe brought home a large number of German war souvenirs. These souvenirs were left in the veterans’ foot lockers and forgotten while others were given to friends and relatives.

DO YOU HAVE ANY OF THESE SOUVENIRS AT HOME, SUCH AS GERMAN DAGGERS, SWORDS, BAYONETS, HELMETS, UNIFORMS, FLAGS, MEDALS, OR OTHER SIMILAR ITEMS FROM WORLD WAR II, THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO SELL? If you do, please send me a sketch or photograph of any items that you desire to sell, along with a detailed description, showing all the markings and writings, as well as what you will take for them. Write K. Ward, P. O. Box 1428, New Bern, North Carolina 28560.

Give him Jade East, the classic gift of elegance that says he's dashing, exciting, your kind of man. Jade East Cologne from $3.00; After Shave from $2.80; Cologne & After Shave Gift Set, $9.50. As an alternate, Golden Lime. All are available in a complete collection of masculine grooming essentials. NK, Inc.—Sole Distributor.

And wherever you find a congenial crowd, you'll find Coca-Cola. For Coca-Cola has the refreshing taste you never get tired of. That's why things go better with Coke, after Coke, after Coke. Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, Concord, N. C.

NEED CASH FOR SCHOOL EXPENSES OR FOR FUN?

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN

WESTERN AUTO LAY-AWAY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS 892-1496

Ultra Modern Diamond Set $125 3 Diamond Ring for Him $99

Now, and in the years to come her diamond will always remind her of this Christmas. Choose from our wonderful selection at easy-to-give prices. Jewelers of Trusted Reputation Mooresville, N. C. 1318 W. Morehead

Croom To Head For South Pole By CECIL BURNEY Staff Writer

“I'm taking a couple pairs of khakis, boots, and net-mesh underclothes with me,” says John Croom, who is leaving shortly for a trip to Antarctica. Croom, a Davidson senior, has been asked to accompany Dr. Jesse C. Thompson, Queens College professor of comparative anatomy, to Palmer's Station, Antarctica, to help conduct an intensive biological study there. This trip, made possible under a grant from the National Science Foundation, will begin in a few days. To get to their destination Thompson and Croom will depart from Rhode Island on a military plane, fly to Panama, continue to Chile and there board an ice-breaker for Antarctica. The purpose of this trip is to make a survey of an order of marine protozoa, Croom said. Croom plans to stay on the ice for about seven weeks and return to Davidson in the middle of February. Other scientists will be stationed in Antarctica during this same period of time. Croom has been looking forward to this trip for several months. He said that the offer to participate in the study was completely unexpected, and in reflecting on his venture, he said, “It’s too bad that more opportunities can't be offered to Davidson students like this one.”

HONEY’S RESTAURANT 105 W. Morehead Catering to banquets and social events

WANTED: Men and women to train for Civil Service examinations. We prepare men and women age 18-55, no experience necessary. Grammar school education usually sufficient. Permanent jobs, no layoffs. Short hours, high pay and advancement. Stay on present job while training. For a list of jobs and salaries send name, address, phone number and time at home. If rural, give directions to home. Write to CISCO TRAINING SERVICE P. O. Box 65, Blairs, Va. 24527

The gym sock that grew up THE ADLER COMPANY Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 A Division of Burlington Industries