The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1968

A Choice Now

Rushees this year have more of a choice than any other group of initiates to run the Davidson fraternity maze since the founding of the school. Obviously, the extended rush program gives more formal choices. Whether or not this formal choice really amounts to anything will depend on the attitude towards it taken by both the fraternities and the rushees. It is necessary to realize that the wording of the extended rush plan was made sufficiently ambiguous to win the acceptance of even the most backward national offices. Whether the program will be meaningful at Davidson depends on the way it is carried out here and how its vague intent will be interpreted.

A more promising indication that a greater degree of choice exists for the rushee, however, comes in the present situation in which fraternities are simply becoming less important. Campus-wide, social activities are now just that—because they are no longer administered by the Interfraternity Council. Entertainment is becoming more available on minor weekends because of an expanded College Union program. It is true that there is probably some residue of the old feeling that Independents are rejectees from the system. This idea, however, has become an often violated generality. It would not seem overly optimistic to assume that there are many cases, if not a majority of cases, when an individual's relation to the fraternity system is practically forgotten.

This fact is probably less evident to freshmen than to anyone else because they are not accustomed to the ideas of the students who have played the Davidson game for several years. On a theoretical basis, the old Greek and non-Greek division still exists. In daily life around the campus, however, it is being eaten away. Independents go to fraternity parties; Greeks skip their own parties. And so it goes. If there is a practical consciousness of fraternity relationships, it is probably the reverse of what it was a few years ago. A feeling seems to be developing that there is something praiseworthy about the freshman who decides he just does not need a fraternity. It is this realization that is creating the greatest choice for the rushee. In the past, he may have been told that despite his own feelings, he really needed a fraternity to find friendship and a social life. Now what was once a fact of life has become a dirty-rush myth.

Faculty Re-run

Did you notice anything peculiar about that calendar printed on the front page of THE DAVIDSONIAN? If you will turn your memory back a couple of months, you will recall that a Student Council resolution persuaded the Academic Scheduling Committee that starting classes on Jan. 2 was an unwise idea. Yet, in the new calendar, that old Jan. 2 bugaboo jumps up again. At least, if this calendar takes effect, it should give the Student Council one job to take care of next year. But, if you will excuse us, we will leave. This scene was shown before.

Top Job

By BILL ANDREWS Associate Editor

The following is a conversation between a basketball coach at a small liberal arts college in the South and a well-known man of affairs from Washington, D.C.

Washington: Hello Coach? How are you again? Yes, just calling to see how the team is doing like I always do. How're things going down there?

Coach: Just fine, sir. How’s things in yore neck o’ the woods?

Washington: Well, not so good really. You can’t imagine how much trouble we're having recruiting these months. I don’t know about your team, but it appears that nobody wants to play on our team. And you know Coach, we do a lot like you do to try to stir up interest. You know how you have those closed-circuit televisions for your recruits to watch your boys play? Well, we’ve expanded it you know, because He says to do everything in a big way for all our folks. Anyway, we did it—on every TV in the country we show our boys right in the action so the recruits can see what they could expect—that’s the way you do it, isn’t it coach?—but... well, nobody seems to want to play after that. I don’t understand it. And the thing is, Coach, unlike you, we always win. Every time we show the score it’s clear we're way out in front. Now can you imagine boys not wanting to play for a team that always wins? We've been winning for the past three years... we’re just, uh, we’re just not through winning, that’s all.

Coach: Well, sir, I'm sorry you’re havin’ trouble recruitin’. But you and me, we both know what’s important is winnin’, right? And I've found that as long as you keep on winnin’ you kin keep most of the people happy, anyway. By the way, you got any predictions about the future?

Washington: Well Coach, you know He and I play it like you do. We keep the folks in the dark as much as we can until we're ready to play. I don’t like to make any kind of forecast till the season starts—the rainy season, that is. But we’re going to pattern our offense pretty much like you do. They like to run and shoot, so the only thing we can do is play with them.

Coach: How long do you think you'll be playin’ it that way? I mean, if they’re losin’ and all.

Washington: Well, whether they’re losing doesn’t matter. We don’t want to beat them so much. No, we don’t ask that. All we ask is simply that they disband their team completely. I mean it’s our league isn’t it? We set it up; we wrote the rules; we run it; and we hire the referees. If they don’t want to play in our league, that’s their right. But we just want them to know that if they don’t get a sanction in our league, they can’t have a team at all. Now I don’t see anything incongruous about that. But they didn’t see it that way. So well, we had to just prove it to them, He said. You know, it got to be a matter of pride with Him. So we set up a game plan and all you have to do is look at it and you can see that we've been winning, we are winning, and we'll keep on winning for a long time to come.

Coach: Well, about this season’s game plans. They gonna change any?

Washington: I don’t think so. We're going to keep the pressure up. You know, no time-outs, no breaks, just keep up the pressure. He thinks that if we use our muscle on the inside we can run up a good score, but the only way to really win the thing is to hit from the outside, you know, bomb them out of the gym so to speak. I think He’s right, but then I always think He’s right. With a coaching staff like His, how could He miss?

Coach: Yeah. Well sir, I think you're doin’ fine except, well you ain’t said a word about defense anytime. Now if I’m gonna advise you on this thing, you better remember about defense. After all...

Washington: Of course we play defense. A lot like you do. We call it 4 man for a man. That’s what you play isn’t it? Well, we aren’t going to drop back into encla-, uh, zone defense. No, that might give people the idea we were trying to slow this thing down. Or worse, even stop it while they still had any players left. No, we'll keep up the man for a man—a good pressure defense, right Coach?—until they either disband or lose all their players.

Coach: Well, I don’t see how you can miss—

Washington: We never miss, Coach. According to our statistics our outside shooters have been hitting 100 percent for the past three years. It’s just amazing, they tell me. I don’t know how they do it, but then I don’t ask.

Coach: Well, I'm glad you called. And one more thing. You heard any of those rumors about maybe comin’ down here for the big job?

Washington: Yes, Coach. Unofficially, of course. But I've always had my heart set on coming back to the old school.

Coach: Well, you sure have the trainin’.

Washington: Yes I think so. And the experience, too. Mark my words, when the big job finally opens, I'll coach the fightingest basketball team this side of Texas.

Council Cuts

According to the present student body constitution, “The office of any member of the Council shall automatically be vacated in the following instances: ... when the member is absent from any six meetings during his term of office without compelling reason acceptable to the Council...” Council President Tom Earnhardt said that the Council is meeting twice as often as it had when that provision of the constitution was adopted. But the record of unexcused absences which THE DAVIDSONIAN publishes below represents one semester, or half a term of office. The information was obtained from Student Council minutes.

Seniors
Fletcher Hartsell 6
Ben Cannon 9
Frank Murphy 2
Tom Clayton 6
Joe Murphy 6
Tom Earnhardt 0
Clay Ford 3

Juniors
Steve Engstrom 6
Covey Carter 6
Bud Cousar 4
John Williams 0

Sophomores
Mike May 2
Sam Darby 0
Geoff Seamans 9
Peter Hobbie 0
Bill Watson 3
Joe Kilpatrick 3
Bruce Weihe 4

Freshman
Davidsonian Reporter

Ill-Considered Exam Rule Bans Intelligent Flexibility

By KERN PARKER Associate Editor

During the recent exam period we witnessed again the utter absurdity of one of the administration’s most often enforced rules—that dealing with making up missed examinations. A Davidson senior missed his first final examination because of illness, and the professor readily agreed to let him take it during the second week of the exam period, and the two went to see the Dean of Students to get his official approval. But the student, who was perfectly willing to study for and take the examination,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Friebele Criticizes Incompetency

Dear Editor,

Mr. Grover C. Meetze has twice demonstrated during thePast three weeks that his department certainly lacks the foresight and ability to cope with the problems of the physical plant of Davidson College. The first incidence of his department's incapability occurred after snow, sleet, and freezing rain had made every walk and step on the campus so slick that a venture outside the dormitory was at the risk of a dangerous fall. In many places, it was impossible to climb the steps without firmly grasping the rail and pulling yourself up. Yet, our quick-reacting maintenance department had not cleaned these hazardous areas five days after the snow had stopped. It is unfortunate that this sort of negligence does not injure the offending persons, but rather the hapless student. A brief check with the infirmary will reveal that there were numerous injuries which were related to falls on slick steps and walks. Nevertheless, such well-traveled areas as the steps down to the fraternity court remained iced five and six days after the storm. This is inexcusable.

The second incidence occurred Monday when a tree in front of the Fine Arts Building was sawed down. A little forethought would have revealed that from the previous Thursday until Sunday there would be few students on the campus. Hence, this would be an ideal time to saw down the tree because the buzz of the saw would disturb a minimum number of people. However, Mr. Meetze waited until the student body had returned and was attempting to accomplish the little studying which is possible during Rush Week. In this way, he managed to irritate and distract the maximum number of students.

In light of the previous two incidents, I believe that a certain amount of planning and preparation should be instituted in this department so that this institution's primary purpose of education may best be accomplished without broken bones and raucous noises.

E. Joseph Friebele, '68 Davidson College

Honor Lacking

Dear Editor,

An evening earlier this week, I discovered that someone had scraped three large sections off of the mural in the basement of the Union. And this seemed to me to be significantly worse than the usual dose of edibles it receives. If this was done by Davidson students, it is a shame. It would seem to be indicative of a growing lack of concern about property, ranging from abundant graffiti in the new Chambers Building to stealing, of which there was an epidemic on my hall earlier in the year. Perhaps someone or some group should interest themselves in these situations and others, especially the stealing in the P.E. locker rooms, the minor infractions of cheating in the science labs and the language lab, and the destruction of the dorms, and interest themselves not in forming stricter punishments but in creating a healthier atmosphere of honor.

Ashton Trice, '69 Davidson College

Student Advisory Group Has Unique Advantages

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

One of the chief concerns of the Student Council last year and this year has been to obtain student representation on the various policy-making committees of Davidson College, believing that students ought to have some voice in making the decisions that govern their lives. Previously, the Blue Sky Committee proved that students can indeed be very helpful to the faculty and administration in making policy for the school. Probably the highest compliment which can be paid to student ability, though, is the committee which Walter L. Lingle Jr. asked the Student Council to form to provide assistance to the trustees in their search for a new president.

Perhaps the trustees are only paying “lip service” to the students by asking for their help. No one knows yet exactly what the student role will be. But we do know that the trustees were definitely impressed by the interest and ability of the students who attended some of their committee meetings during their fall session. Apparently, they had just never thought that students cared enough to be involved in important decisions. The fact that 50 students signed up to be on the student advisory committee should prove once and for all that students really do want a share in all future decisions which vitally affect the college. Those who were chosen supposedly represent the very best the student body can offer and are certainly as qualified as any students could be.

Right now we can only speculate as to what part the students will play in the final selection. Under the Davidson College charter, the trustees are given the sole responsibility for choosing the college's president. Certainly, the members of the trustee committee are skilled in the business world and know what qualities to look for in a leader. But the students also possess a unique advantage. They live day after day at Davidson and have gained a pretty thorough knowledge of the 1968 version of Davidson College, its strengths and its weaknesses, its assets and its needs. If the trustees are interested in choosing a man who will be right for Davidson College, the students ought to be able to give them invaluable aid.

The Student Council has also vowed not to restrict student advice to the opinions of these four students. They are going to try to give the whole student body a chance to render a majority opinion for the trustees’ consideration. This will be achieved through open ends, discussions, stories in THE DAVIDSONIAN, polls, etc. Any students who are interested in the selection process will certainly be encouraged to consult with members of the student committee at any time.

Everyone realizes that next year will be a momentous one in the history of Davidson College. It is not every year that a college witnesses a new president, a new curriculum, and a new student government organization. The student committee understands the importance of the task they are undertaking, and we can only hope that the trustees will be fair in assigning them a full share of the responsibility.

Backward

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

The Absurdity Of It All

I realize that the cataclysmic event of fraternity rush at Davidson this week should take all precedence before other happenings around the world. However, somehow I get the feeling that the North Korean seizure of the “Pueblo” may bode more for the future, whether good or evil, than all the rush speeches and “hot-boxing” ever will.

One thing that strikes me about the North Korean action is the absurdity of it all. What use can the very lightly armed ship possibly have for the Koreans? If the classified intelligence equipment were not destroyed prior to capture, then I could see why the Koreans might wish to keep the ship. But why should they risk an almost certainly disastrous war with the United States in order to swipe the thing in the first place? And why should they now want to keep it, if its intelligence equipment has been destroyed?

It is also interesting to note that the exact location of the ship is questionable. Whether the ship was within the magic 12-mile limit which marks the extent of off-shore sovereignty should be a matter of simple empirical fact. The Koreans claim the “Pueblo” was inside the limit, while the United States government claims it was not. There was a time, perhaps, when it could be assumed that the Communists lie and the Americans do not. But since the U-2 incident, and with the less-than-honest nature of the present administration, such a situation is not necessarily so.

If the Korean purpose was to precipitate a crisis, then the incident admirably filled the bill. LBJ calls up some reserves, and the guys in advanced ROTC begin to sweat just as much as those who face re-classification after graduation. Given the independent course which North Korea has followed viz. China and the Soviet Union, it might even be arguable that the Koreans have created a crisis situation in other Communist states.

The ridiculous extent of the American presence in Vietnam also raises some questions concerning the “Pueblo” affair. Would the North Koreans have dared such action if the United States were not so heavily involved in Vietnam? Are the Koreans trying to create a situation in which the North Korean-South Korean distinction will be seen as analogous to the North Vietnamese-South Vietnamese distinction, thereby discouraging American involvement should war break out? The weakness of such an analogy may not be the primary consideration to the North Koreans.

The whole affair points up how absurd American foreign policy and international relations really are. The United States has refused to consider the nationalist impulse alive today, instead preferring a simpler, but less valid, three-storied world view. This consists of the good guys (the “free” world), border-lines (the neutrals), and the hurts (the Communist states). As a result, we immediately turn to Russia to solve our problems with North Korea, without considering that the Russians may not have much more influence on the actions of that government than we do. As a result, we find ourselves bogged down in Vietnam to the point that our position in the rest of the world is considerably weakened. And perhaps as a cause, we have a Secretary of State who can only respond to the crisis with an example of his usual deathly prose, terming the incident as “an act of war” and advising the Koreans to “cool it.”