HONOR COURT POLICY

Williams Plans Intensive Study, Several Revisions

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

The Honor Court is continuing its intensified program of making faculty and students more aware of the honor system. The program includes two phases — the orientation of freshmen and new faculty members and continuing study and publicity work by the court. Some court policy changes and plans for a booklet about the honor system are now in the works, according to senior Bill Williams, court chairman. Research work for the booklet is based on the response to questionnaires sent to schools. These schools were asked to define lying, cheating, and stealing. Williams said that he was “very happy with the letter response.” Some 30 schools from all parts of the country sent in replies.

The policy changes of the court, mainly clarification of definitions and existing policies, will be explained in the booklet, Williams said. It was decided to delay publication of the booklet until after the Board of Trustees acts on the Code of Responsibility next weekend. The proposed code includes sections on the Honor Court and honor system.

At an assembly last Friday, Williams spoke to the freshman class about the honor system and introduced the court members, the defense adviser, and the chairman of the investigating committee to the class. Handouts listing the fundamentals of the honor system, definitions of terms, court procedures, and the names and addresses of court members, the defense advisor, and the chairman of the investigating committee were distributed to all freshmen.

"It's been unfortunate that in the past, at least one freshman has been dismissed for an honor violation each year," Williams said. "I don't know whether it's been a lack of orientation (to the honor system) or a lack of cooperation," he said, "but that's behind the work we're doing right now."

In addition to the freshman orientation activities, Williams met with new faculty members last week to present the honor system and court policies and procedures to them. Williams said that two members of the court will be meeting with all department heads and will attend department meetings to acquaint faculty members with changes brought about by the new student body constitution. The court will also ask faculty members for their policies of honor requirements for written assignments and lab work.

In preparation for the publication of the honor court booklet, members of the court are heading committees to prepare certain sections. Chairmen and their sections are: Tom Baker, history; Dale Durham and Wayne Huckel, clarification of definitions; and Ken Crews, trial procedures.

Free U. To Start Classes

By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

Free University students must be interested in learning for itself, according to Free University Chairman Rich Cowart. Cowart, who sees the program as “the ideal educational setup," got the idea from two University of North Carolina students. The curriculum consists of non-credit courses offered by qualified faculty and student instructors.

Two courses are student-inspired. Stagg Newman has organized a poverty seminar and sophomore Jimmy Trussell will offer “Beyond Conception,” a study of birth control. In the political science area, Jon W. Fuller discusses “Temporary Affairs Week by Week,” and William Jackson offers “The Presidential Campaign Week by Week.” Dr. Frank Bliss heads a photography course, and Robert Williams discusses “Art Of The 60's.” Dr. Alan B. Brinkley will lead a section in “American Civil Liberties.” Other classes include Dr. Ernest Patterson's course, “Revolution,” and Dr. T. A. Williams’ course, “Parapsychology.” College chaplain Scott Woodmansee will head a discussion in “Group Dynamics.”

Boyte, Davidson, Hyder Fill Administrative Posts

Three men, two of them recent Davidson graduates, have joined the college's administrative staff. Robert W. Davidson of Mooresville holds the new post of comptroller. James W. Hyder, '66 was appointed assistant dean of admissions and Samuel F. Boyte assistant director of the College Union.

Davidson, who has been auditing the college's records since 1958 as an accountant with Ernst and Ernst of Charlotte, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1952. He received his Masters in business administration there in 1953. The new position of comptroller was created in a reorganization of the business office in an effort to cope with the college's expansion and the bind that private colleges face in the future, said Robert A. Currie, treasurer and business manager.

“We are extremely fortunate to have an administrator of Mr. Davidson's ability,” Currie said. “His record and experience guarantee continued progress in Davidson College's administrative needs in the future.” He said Davidson's duties will include responsibilities previously charged to Myron W. McBill, bursar and assistant treasurer for the past 46 years, who retires next week.

Hyder joined the Admissions Office staff last month when his Army hitch ended. During his undergraduate days here, he was head basketball manager, an All-Southern Conference baseball player, and a Dana Scholar.

Before his graduation from Davidson last June, Boyte was a member of the College Union Board and head deskman. He was editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN and chairman of the Publications Board. Boyte succeeds Tom L. Covington as assistant director of the Union. Covington has become assistant to new President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., replacing William L. Bondurant, who has left the college.

Freshmen Challenge Rules

The newly installed Freshman Council voted overwhelmingly Monday night for abolition of the controversial regulations and with only three dissenting votes directed freshmen advisers Larry Slade and John Gilmore to make the class's views known to the Senate. Slade announced that a bonfire would be held “somewhere near Hattie’s” the night before Homecoming, at which time each freshman hall will present a skit. Queens cheerleaders offered to reward the producers of the winning play by arranging dates for them with some of the more beautiful girls at Queens.

The advisers also encouraged freshmen to contribute money for a new mascot—a giant plastic Wildcat head to be worn by a cheerleader. The cost was reported to be about $400.

October 4, 1968

Up ‘n ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, October 5
All Day Presbyterian Retreat Camp Thunderbird
1:30 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. Virginia Charlottesville, Va.
8:15 p.m. New Cinema Morrison Room

Sunday, October 6
All Day Presbyterian Retreat Camp Thunderbird
4 p.m. Recital: Roger Drinkall Hodson Hall
7:30 p.m. Faculty Convocation Dr. Ross MacKenzie Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Fine Films: “La Guerre Est Finie” Queens College

Monday, October 7
All Day Peace Corps Representative Union Lobby
10 a.m. Freshman Chapel Love Auditorium
10 and 2:30 Lectures in Physics: Dr. Laurence Slifken Dana 2
7 p.m. Investment Club Chamber B3
8 p.m. Movie: “Romeo and Juliet” Morrison Room
10 p.m. Open End: Reid Stubbs, chm. Wallace campaign in N.C. Phi Hall

Tuesday, October 8
All Day Peace Corps Representative Union Lobby
9 a.m. L. G. Balfour Co. (class rings) Student Store
10 a.m. Assembly: Mr. J. O. McCloud Love Auditorium
3 p.m. & 7:30 p.m. Perspectives on Poverty Love Auditorium
8:30 p.m. Movie: “Memorandum” Morrison Room

Wednesday, October 9
All Day Peace Corps Representative Union Lobby
10 p.m. Movie: “A Man and a Woman” Morrison Room

Thursday, October 10
All Day Peace Corps Representative Union Lobby
8:15 p.m. “The Bald Soprano” Hodson Hall

Friday, October 11
All Day Peace Corps Representative Union Lobby
10 a.m. Voluntary Chapel Love Auditorium
3 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. N.C. Wesleyan Soccer Field
8 p.m. Artist Series: Paul Winter Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Movie: “A Man and a Woman” Morrison Room

(Photo by Frank Bliss)
“NOT THAT WAY, IT’S OVER HERE”
Players rehearse for “The Bald Soprano.”

Ionesco’s ‘Anti-Play’ To Be Staged Thursday

The Davidson Community Players will present Eugene Ionesco’s comedy, “The Bald Soprano,” Thursday night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. “The Bald Soprano” — which Ionesco calls an “anti-play” — is a short work which is one of the classics of the modern theatre of the absurd. By using apparently empty conversation in a very comic fashion, the author deals with the tragedy.of failed communication among people whose lives offer little variety or excitement. The production is directed by Constance Welsh, wife of Professor Wilmer Welsh of the Davidson Music Department. Featured in the cast are Lucy Johnston, wife of Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston; Ellen Winkler (Mrs. J. S. Winkler); Winfred P. Minter and Charles L. Cornwell, professors of political science and English; Ralph Quackenbush, proprietor of The Hub; and Barbara Fagg, wife of Coach Dave Fagg. The Davidson Community Players were organized in the summer of 1965 by people in the Davidson community interested in drama. It has since produced several short plays and readings. The group originally performed “The Bald Soprano” in summer 1966 and has revived it to reach new audiences in Davidson and in Charlotte. As part of a series of guest productions sponsored by the Little Theatre in Charlotte, “The Bald Soprano” will also be produced at 4 p.m. on October 13 at the Little Theater on Queens Road. Admission in Davidson is 75c; in Charlotte, $1.

“The Politics of Violence” will be the initial topic of Stimulus, the program designed to give students the opportunity for informal discussions of selected topics with professors. The first topic, taken from an article by Arthur Schlesinger in the August Harper’s Magazine, was chosen to serve as a springboard for future discussions. According to John Warren, who with Paul Schneider is the student Stimulus coordinator, the 90 to 100 participants in Stimulus ‘68-'69 will be divided into eight discussion groups. The ratio of students to professors is three to one. The program, which begins Oct. 21, is open to upperclassmen and international students. Requirements for participation are completion of the assigned readings and attendance at all meetings. Each group will meet twice during the term. After the initial fall topic, each group will discuss topics of its own choosing.

Davidson College alumni have elected four trustees of the college and three top officers of the alumni association in balloting completed Sept. 15. Elected to four-year terms on the Board of Trustees were two businessmen and one professional man: Julian J. Clark, president of the North Carolina National Bank of Charlotte; Osborne Bethea, a retired life insurance executive of New York City; and Dr. Hugh D. Verner, a Charlotte physician. A fourth new trustee, J. Dickson Phillips Jr., dean of the UNC Law School, was elected to fill the term of Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the president of Davidson College. All the new trustees are alumni of the college, according to William B. Armstrong, director of alumni activities, who announced the election results. Elected president of the alumni association was John M. Trask Jr., a businessman from Beaufort. Trask graduated from Davidson in 1958. He will serve for a year as president-elect of the alumni association before being installed as president in 1969. Two vice presidents of the association were also elected: Charles W. Patterson of Charlotte and B. B. Walker of Asheboro. Patterson is vice-president of the Ballabox Co., Inc. and a 1948 Davidson graduate. Walker is president and board chairman of B. B. Walker Shoe Company and a member of the class of 1943. The three regularly-elected trustees were selected from a group of seven names drawn up by the association's nominating committee and approved by its Board of Directors at Alumni Weekend in June. Two nominations were later made to fill the vacancy created by Dr. Spencer’s resignation. Approximately 25 percent of Davidson alumni participated in the election. The results of the election become effective at the Homecoming meetings of the trustees and alumni.

Last Monday's Open End between students and Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Davidson's new president, had to be postponed because of a special called meeting which conflicted with the Open End. The Open End has been rescheduled for Monday, Oct. 14, and will be held in the lobby of the College Union at 10 p.m.

When the ROTC battalion forms next week there will be few freshmen missing who are eligible for the army program. Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, head of the ROTC Department, said that “a half dozen” freshmen have given him a letter from their parents requesting that they be exempted from the required ROTC program. This method of being excused from ROTC was added last spring to a previously existing list at the Board of Trustees meeting. The list also includes those students who have had previous military or ROTC training, are conscientious objectors, or are transfer students classified as sophomores or higher. Outlaw said the new opportunity to be excused from the program was well publicized by both the ROTC Department and the college. It was mentioned in the Wildcat Handbook, and Outlaw sent two letters to freshmen explaining that parents who objected to their sons’ receiving military training at Davidson could have them excused by simply writing a letter to him before registration started.

Jordie Lang, an organizer for the Fayetteville Area Poor People’s Organization, has been charged with “conspiracy to perform felonious burning and attempting to burn a building in at least two indictments,” Fayetteville Superior Court Solicitor Doren Berry said last week. Lang is a former Davidson student. Berry said the case would probably be tried sometime during the Superior Court session beginning October 14. There are five other defendants in the case. Lang said he had been working on improving housing and getting the city government to do more for the poor people in Fayetteville. The indictment charges Lang with throwing what Berry described as a “Molotov cocktail” against the office of the Cross Creek Housing Authority and with being involved in a conspiracy in which a similar firebomb was thrown against the side of a grocery store across the street from the housing project. “It's an obvious frame-up,” Lang said. He said the city government has been harassing him as long as he had worked there. “I didn’t think Davidson boys did things like that,” Berry said. “It really shocked me.”

The Music Department has announced the appointment of Oberlin College graduate Robert E. Jackson, 24, of Hartford, Conn., as instructor of music and director of the Wind Ensemble at Davidson. Jackson formerly taught in the West Hartford public schools and has been associated with the Hartford and Connecticut Symphony Orchestras, the William Stanley Concert Jazz Band, and Bobby Kaye Orchestra in Connecticut. Jackson said that the ensemble plans to present an open-air concert Oct. 20 if the weather permits and a formal concert in the Hodson Hall in November.

JANUS FILMS PRESENTS THE ARCTURUS COLLECTION DIRECT FROM NEW YORK’S PHILHARMONIC HALL a collection of brilliant short films by the directors of the 60’s (& 70's)

ALL SHOWINGS 6:15 P.M. REGULAR ADMISSION Single Program ........ $1.50 Series ............ $2.50 STUDENT ADMISSION Single Program ....... $1.00 Series .. $1.75 MORRISON ROOM COLLEGE UNION Davidson College Davidson, N. C.

PROGRAM NO. 1 OCT. 3 & 8 (8 showings) Enter Hamlet Fred Mogubgub, U.S.A. Renaissance Walerian Borowczyk, Poland Les Mistons '67 Francois Truffaut, France Running, Jumping, and Standing Still Film Richard Lester, England Two Castles Bruno Bozzetto, Italy The Fat and the Lean Roman Polanski, Poland Corrida Interdite Denys Colomb de Daunant, France Allures Jordan Belson, U.S.A. La Jetée Chris Marker, France