**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1968

CRAP--On Second Look

Underneath all the hoopla and headlines about drinking and open dorms that accompanied the release of the CRAP report draft
last week is another proposed change of far more importance. What the Committee on Rules and Punishments is asking for
is not just a liberalization of two rules. More important, the committee wants a whole new attitude on the part
of the college towards its students.

For too long the college has clung to the old-fashioned notion that its job is to replace the student’s parents,
dictating morality to him and cuffing him when he steps outside of the narrow bounds prescribed. It is time for
the college to realize that it has some responsibility in helping its student find answers to the social questions which
naturally arise at this stage of his life. Then it will be the student's job to show that he can
make the decisions in a responsibly mature manner.

If the college passes over CRAP’s recommendation, students will go on doing what they have done in the past, maintaining
their ‘surface conformity to the standards desired" and drinking behind locked doors and pulled shades. It comes down to this:
until the college’s attitude is changed, the students cannot count themselves reasonably mature. Until the college admits that its students
can conduct themselves properly even in situations involving alcohol and women, they cannot prove to the college that the men
it is educating are responsible.

What happens now is up to the faculty and trustees. The student body thinks it can accept the new responsibility,
and the CRAP Committee does too. All we ask for is the chance to prove it.

Justice, Charlotte Style

Folks in Charlotte are fond of calling their town the ‘Queen City” or “the city of action.” After watching their
judicial system and news media at work this week, however, we would suggest another term. Bush league, for instance.

Four Davidson students were arrested, jailed briefly and hauled to court for a typical schoolboy prank: going out beyond the
spectator area at a Charlotte airport to watch the planes. Who the students were and whether or not they committed
the offense is neither here nor there. The fact is, one of the students was convicted, and the judge who
convicted him was apparently thinking more of recent events at the college than the alleged offense itself.

“It seems to me," he told the students, “that with all the picketing, the hissing of the ROTC Department and
the hanging of the Communist flag, you boys wouldn't have time to get out on airport runways.” When the students’
lawyer asked permission to address the judge, he replied: “Don’t address me as the jury. Speak to me as the
law—because I am prejudiced.”

He wasn’t the only prejudiced one. A Charlotte radio “personality” who prides himself on his wit and homespun philosophy picked
up the story for his hourly program. He retold the trial story, with relish, concluding: “Sock it to ‘em, judge!”

The behavior of both the judge and the radio announcer is unorthodox, unethical and inexcusable. They chose to judge the
students on the basis of what they knew about some Davidson students. It would be a little presumptuous on our
part to tell a judge and a newsman that snap judgments have no place in their professions. But then obviously
there are a lot of simple things they haven’t learned yet.

Worth A Try

A critic we know took one look at the recommendation of the Constitution Revision Committee that political parties be created
on campus and said: “That is the worst idea that committee has come up with yet.” We beg to differ.

If we had political parties, we wouldn't have to choose among seven presidential candidates. We probably wouldn’t be subjected to
the inevitable “me-tooism” in platforms. We would not have to wade through runoffs. And, best of all, it might make
for a more vigorous student government. For any one of those reasons, at any rate, it's worth a try.

The Long Ride Back

The saying goes, “When you drink, don’t drive.” But when everybody's been drinking and you have to get back to
campus, you don’t have much choice. There will be dozens of parties this weekend, and drinking at all of them.
An estimated 300 gallons of spirits will be consumed. All of this imbibing will be off-campus. It must be: drinking
is not yet permitted on campus.

All weekend long Davidson students and their dates will be up the road and on the road. Some sober, some
high, and some dead drunk. Nobody walks to Hattie’s or to the parties. The cab companies in Statesville and Kannapolis
don’t answer at 3 a.m. This may be the weekend that somebody doesn’t make it back.

The CRAP Committee has suggested that drinking be permitted on campus. It is a wise proposal and a realistic one.
If the faculty and trustees see fit to go along with the committee report, the danger of drunk driving will
be reduced. At least some parties could be held on campus if the report is adopted. Somebody’s life could be
saved. But in the meantime . . . Cheers!

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Satires Score

Previous Letters To The Editor:

In my four years at Davidson College, I have never been so shocked, disappointed, and thoroughly disgusted in anybody as
I was Monday. Unfortunately for me, I had just finished my mid-morning snack at the College Union and was en
route to my third hour ROTC class when I saw the Confederate flag hanging from a window in Watts dormitory.
Unashamedly I admit the sight of the flag made me sick to my stomach to the extent that I spontaneously
regurgitated my delicious Slater cinnamon roll and eleven-cent coke.

You, the enlightened ones of this liberal institution or whoever hopes to reinstitute disastrous regionalism should go even further. The
great unity that we as Americans are currently enjoying was founded by the sound defeat of regionalist factions over a
century ago. The war was a costly one. Men have fought and died so that we as Americans now enjoy
the greatest feeling of unity and common interest of any nation in modern history. It is a shame that you
guys show off in front of men who are at least attempting to prepare themselves for defense of us in
case the unity of this great nation is once again violated.

If you value regionalism more than this country's principles, then leave. Please leave. There is no room for you in
America. But more important, you are not wanted. With the past weeks of sad events and America’s attempt at peace
and the preservation of unity in Vietnam, I find it hard to understand that some of you have no better
way to spend your time.

This school has left me with many wonderful memories. I'm proud of Davidson and of its tradition, but as for
you guys I just hope the day will never come when you will be called upon to defend the unity
of this country—whether by war or by vote.

Lestie Brown (Less Black ‘68) Davidson College

To The Editor:

After reading and pondering the Challenge asserted by Professor Workman, and duplicated by Professor McGavock, we, the undersigned, have arrived
at a proposal which seems to be a logical extension of the one offered by the aforementioned faculty members. We,
the concerned students of Davidson College, wish to establish a fund which will have as its purpose the acceptance of
a black professor on the faculty. We feel that such a ‘faculty scholarship’ will add considerable diversity to an otherwise
colorless faculty.

To support our contention, each of us has agreed to contribute $7.50 toward such a fund, since this amount appears
to be somewhat commensurate with the donations of McGavock and Workman. Thus, we challenge you, the faculty members, to bleed
us white, therefore demonstrating to us that—YOU CAN!

Respectfully yours, Cary Tucker ‘70 Les Brown ‘68 Ken Wallace ‘69 Fred James ‘70 Ken Tarleton ’68 Mike Norris ‘68
Joe Dial ’68 Roger Dultweller ‘68 John Pancake ‘69 Cary White ’68

Cockrill Cites Activist Paradox

To The Editor:

Davidson College has long been praised as one of the nation’s leading academic institutions. This apparent strength has been credited
to many factors—curriculum, excellent faculty, physical plant and others. Davidson’s greatest strength, however, always has been its student body. At
a time when Davidson is going through so many changes, the thoughtful student should consider what has made his predecessors
so outstanding.

The image of the Davidson student body has been one of men striving for academic excellence, men who are proud
of themselves and proud of their college. In the eyes ofthe public they were clean-cut "gentlemen" and consequently they commanded
the respect of peers and elders alike. Today's progressive student body, however, has lost this image of pride, and is
rapidly losing the respect of the public. Unfortunately, the public is receiving a greatly distorted picture of Davidson. The student
body is still a strong one, but the public sees only a small, unrepresentative minority. This problem is not unique
at Davidson, but is a general symptom among American students today. The student body that the public sees is one
composed of men who claim to be liberated from the dogmas of the past. They actively work for the rights
of the individual even if their methods deprive other persons. They accuse those who do not agree with them of
being bigoted. In order to secure justice, they endanger the liberty of others. Their methods are shameful; they say they
believe in individual freedom yet they refuse to recognize the freedom of an individual if his views are not their
own. The cause is lack of pride and respect for other people. Lack of respect that results in making a
personal attack on a member of the ROTC Department, just because he has pride in his country, in his work,
and in himself; a man who is just as actively working for his beliefs as is the Davidson activist. The
liberated student should stop to consider how paradoxical some of his actions are. To say that a certain professor or
instructor should not be here because he was sickened by a student demonstration is to deny adherence to the theory
that Davidson should be diversified. Should not the faculty be as diversified as the student body? Absorbing the liberal arts
atmosphere of Davidson is one thing, but participating in activities for the sole purpose of embarrassing a person, or an
academic department is quite another. I only ask that those who would participate in such activities consider that their actions
reflect not only on themselves, but also on the entire student body, which they, as a minority, have no right
to represent.

William G. Cockrill, ‘70
Davidson College

Davidson Should Produce Men Of Humane Instincts

To The Editor:

“Davidson's primary purpose is to develop men of humane instincts.” I was discouraged to read that several students believe this
goal is being properly accomplished by maintaining a stereotyped student body who believe in the “traditional Davidson education.” I find
it hard to see the value of an education which produces leaders for the early part of this century. I'll
be the first to admit: ability to converse over a cocktail with a Southern belle, knowledge of liquors and wines,
skill in memorizing important facts and lists, learning that I am superior to some humans (even though I was born
by chance to white parents rather than black parents), cleverness in diving reviews and snowing professors, proficiency in cleaning and
dismantling my own M-1—yes, all of these are extremely important in a liberal education. Thus we find that Davidson offers
us a perfect background preparation for life as an upper-middle class professional man who joins the ‘right’ church and the
‘right’ clubs. But what about the rest of the world? We have no specific courses about Africa, India, Asia (until
1969), or South America. Of course very few people live in these countries and their contributions to the world are
nil. But let me hasten to add that we do offer courses on the making of a general, identification of
“hill zones” and “the enemy,” and the fine art of defending our nation against the communist monolith. Yet, we are
supposed to develop men of humane instincts. Why not have a “ROTC program” to prepare students for VISTA or Peace
Corps services; are Davidson students so interested in acquiring “an education” that they lack time to learn to help others
rather than learning to clean an obsolete weapon? Is it so preposterous to suppose that a Christian, church-related college could
teach its students to help their fellow men? I say NO. Is it preposterous to think that our students are
“stepping out of line” and hurting our “image” by trying to help the black people of this country? They have
advanced little so far because people have feared that their “image” might be hurt. Our “image” should be of the
man with humane instincts who has had educational enlightenment and attained cultural maturity by helping others to help themselves and
not just by living a life of seclusion and lack of concern for those less fortunate than we. I hate
to disappoint some but I do not have long hair or a beard; I take baths; I am not a
Communist. Thus I am not in a minority of one. I am discontented, which some feel is bad for Davidson’s
image; but I would remind these people that the most famous discontented personage in the past was probably none other
than the man Jesus who lived among the poor, wore a beard, and was called an outside agitator by his
enemies. Take a moment to reflect what might happen if Christ had marched in the picket line in front of
Johnson's Barber Shop. I believe in Davidson for its purpose. It has produced great men and numerous leaders but I
believe we can produce men who are better prepared for 1968 and the problems which confront our society. Davidson has
an unlimited opportunity to provide humanitarian, educated, objective leaders not just for Mt. Mourne or Greenwood but for the entire
world. But whether we be pre-med or pre-ministerial we need to remember: Most of the people of the world are
neither Presbyterian, nor white, nor American—THEY ARE HUNGRY.

John L. Warren ‘69
Davidson College

Letters To Editor

Letters received by four p.m. Wednesday will ordinarily be printed in that week's issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The editors reserve
the right to hold letters from publication until a later date if adequate space is not available. The editors also
reserve the right to make corrections for spelling and grammar, and to cut letters of more than 250 words in
length.

Whipping Post

Associate Editor Will Chambers

Become Lingle Manor?

Remember way back in January when Dr. D. Grier Martin announced his resignation as Davidson’s president? And remember all the
fanfare and flurry about how trustees, faculty and even students would all join hands in finding a new president?

Ah yes, it was a grand scene! The generous Mr. Lingle invited students to form a committee to submit candidates
for the office. Student Council members and columnists on this newspaper hailed the invitation as a major step toward student
power, whatever that meaningless phrase really means.

Now here it is April, and do we have a winner? No. No one has been named for the job.
The student committee has filed a list of candidates. But other than that, the committee seems to have had little
influence on the decision-making process. One member of the committee said that he has no idea how many times the
trustee committee has met or what progress has been made toward naming a president.

Students should have been skeptical of this offer in the first place. The trustees suggested the formation of the student
advisory committee so that there would be one body to represent student opinion. The suggestions would be funneled through the
committee to the trustees, thus giving the committee a fairly strong position as the final authority on student views. But
then the trustees weakened the position of the committee by offering to accept student suggestions directly. Mr. Lingle offered to
consider any suggestion submitted to him by a student. Therefore, the trustees established lines of communication which ignored the student
committee. If this policy was to be acceptable, I wonder why a committee was formed in the first place.

Then after the list of candidates was submitted, students were never consulted or even informed concerning the progress of the
selection process. What has happened to the selection process? Are we going to have a new president soon? Will Mr.
Lingle follow the steps of his father who, while chairman of the board of trustees in 1929, appointed himself president
to succeed another President Martin? Will Dr. Samuel Spencer be hired?

Who knows? If someone does, he’s obviously keeping quiet. But the silence of the trustees has led many students to
believe that the president was in fact chosen months ago. The announcement has not been made, they feel, because the
trustees want to foster the myth that they really have considered student suggestions. These skeptics think the new president to
be either Dr. Samuel Spencer of Mary Baldwin or Mr. Lingle himself.

I’m going to make no prediction here. Nor will I completely endorse the above theory. But it is time that
Mr. Lingle and the gang let us know how things are going at the soap factory.
