Page Four November 8, 1968

The Davidsonian

Smith Heads Drive

Head football coach Homer Smith will head the 1968-69 Christmas Seal Campaign for Mecklenburg, Union, and Cabarrus Counties, according to
an announcement by J. Clayton Purser, President of the Triangle Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Association. Purser stated, “We are indeed
fortunate to have a young man of Coach Smith's caliber interested in our fight against TB and Respiratory Diseases. We
are looking forward to an excellent campaign under his leadership.”

“Christmas Seals are a tradition with all of us and have worked for many years to improve the health of
our community,” said Smith. “Being in the field of sports, I am most aware of a good healthy body. It
concerns me to see a young man destroying himself by abuse, particularly cigarette smoking. The Christmas Seal Association is dedicated
to preventing our younger generation from starting to smoke,” stated Smith.

Smith stated that education is the key to healthful living for our younger generation if they are going to be
free of respiratory diseases.

CONCERT’S PROLOGUE

Scheduled to kick off the concert weekend’s entertainment are The Showmen, who will play in Chambers Dining Hall Friday night
from 8 to 12. Drinking will be allowed in the dining hall. Also Friday night is a performance of Billy
Budd, at 8:15 in Hodson Hall.

Congressional Cutbacks Devastate Aid Stipends

According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, “a 78 percent cutback is expected next fall in the number of college
students receiving initial awards under the federal program of educational opportunity grants.” This cutback may affect the funds for grants
for incoming freshmen next year or even admissions policy. Grants to those already receiving aid from the program should not
be affected, according to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid.

Only 31,000 first-year students will get need grants next year compared to the 144,600 who received similar grants this fall,
according to estimates by administrators in the U.S. Office of Education. A surprise reduction of $18 million in Congressional appropriations
caused the scaling down of the program. H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, said that the school
gets more than $35,000 from the program. White said the cutback might eventually force the school to seek other sources
for funds or to change the admissions policy.

Davidson Johnson, who heads up the educational opportunity branch in the Office of Education, said the cutback would be “devastating.”
He noted that the grant program includes the renewal of awards to previous recipients, and that this leaves only first-year
grants—going mostly to college freshmen—with which to absorb the budget cuts. By including $9 million that has been carried over
from fiscal 1968, the Office of Education expects it will have about $133.6 million for the program, less than is
estimated for this year’s program. Mr. Johnson said it was “inexcusable” that the conference committee had not investigated the matter
more than it did. Had it done so, he said, it would have realized that the program needed additional funds
just to keep pace with its previous level of operation.

The cutback in the educational opportunities program marks a significant reversal for the Johnson Administration's financial aid plans for college
students.

Printing By College Press Service

Although the nation’s graduate schools did not face the 70 percent reduction in fall enrollment some predicted last year because
of the draft, the second semester crunch may hurt them badly. Most universities were taken by surprise this fall, when
the 25-50 percent of their students expecting to be drafted returned to school after all. Some universities, which had accepted
more graduate students than they could handle in order to make up for the draft's toll, have been faced with
money and housing shortages—and too many students.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, November 8
10:10 a.m. Stammtisch Snackbar
3 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. Emory Soccer Field
8:15 p.m. Play: “Billy Budd” Hodson Hall

Saturday, November 9
2 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. VMI Richardson Field
8:15 p.m. Play: “Billy Budd” Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Concert: Mitch Ryder Ovens Auditorium
10 p.m. Movie: “The Collector” Love Auditorium

Monday, November 11
10 p.m. Open End Union Lobby

Tuesday, November 12
10 a.m. Assembly: Ronald Beckman, Research and Design Institute, Providence, R.I. Phi Hall
8 p.m. Philanthropic Society Phi Hall
8:15 p.m. Madame Butterfly Ovens Auditorium

Wednesday, November 13
8:30 p.m. “Montovani” in Concert Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte
10 p.m. Union Coffee House Snackbar

Thursday, November 14
10 a.m. Assembly: Foreign Study Opportunities Phi Hall

Friday, November 15
All Day Ninth Annual Sacred Music Convocation
10:10 a.m. Stammtisch Snackbar
2 p.m. Freshman Football: Davidson vs. Furman Richardson Field
2:30 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. N.C. State Raleigh
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: Dr. Robert Baker College Church

Baker Is Guest Musician At Sacred Music Festival

Dr. Robert Baker, dean of the School of Music of Union Theological Seminary, New York City, will be the guest
musician-lecturer for the ninth annual Sacred Music Convocation at Davidson College next weekend. Two concerts will highlight the conference. At
8:15 next Friday night, Dr. Baker will present an organ recital. At 1:45 p.m. Saturday, another organ recital will be
given by finalists in competition among organ students at the convocation. Both programs will be in the Davidson College Presbyterian
Church.

Dr. Baker will give an address: “Does Church Music Have a Future?” at 10:45 a.m. Friday, Hodson Hall, Fine Arts
Center. A panel discussion, “The Church: Its Youth and Its Music,” moderated by Mrs. Richard Peek of Covenant Presbyterian Church,
Charlotte, will be held at 3:30 p.m. Friday, Hodson Hall. The discussion will be continued at 10:45 a.m. Saturday in
Hodson Hall, moderated by David Lowry, Winthrop College Organist.

The organ playing competition will be open to any high school or undergraduate college student with the consent of his
organ instructor. Each contestant must play one work by J. S. Bach and one other work of his choice.

Deliciously Thrifty

THRIFTBOX $3.75
9 pieces of “finger lickin’ good” chicken. Serves 3 to 5 hungry folks. We fix Sunday dinner seven days a
week.

COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, N.C.They had failed to calculate this fall’s election and its ramifications on the draft in their estimates last spring.
In February, when the Selective Service System announced that graduate students would no longer be deferred “in the national interest,”
both universities and the government predicted that schools might lose up to 70 percent of their first-year students. They forecast
a great increase in female and middle-aged graduate students. Selective Service officials predicted that students would make up as much
as 90 percent of the draft call-ups in many states. The Defense Department said 63 percent of the 240,000 draftees
predicted for 1969 would be students. Students made up 3.8 percent this year. But the crunch failed to materialize this
fall. For one thing, draft calls beginning in July were drastically lower than those for previous months. And they will
stay that way until January when the elections are well over. How much calls will rise will depend on the
manpower needs of the armed forces, the status of the Vietnam war, and the mood of the new President. But
they are sure to rise at least a little, according to Mrs. Betty Vetter, an official of the Scientific Manpower
Commission, a private research agency in Washington. Her prediction is based on the fact that draft calls for the last
few years have run in 18-month cycles: the high point of the latest cycle is due in January 1969. Whatever
the increase, it is sure to hit students harder next semester; under present draft regulations, the oldest eligible males are
first to go, and graduate students newly classified 1-A are perfect targets. Those who receive induction notices during the present
school term are allowed to stay in school to finish the term, but must then report for induction. But despite
the fact that total graduate enrollment has changed very little in numbers, the edict has not been without effect. Graduate
schools at several universities have reported drops in enrollment from one to 20 percent. Professional schools seem harder hit than
most. At Valparaiso University, 25 of 150 students enrolled in the law school didn’t register in September. Lehigh University reports
a 13 percent decrease in enrollment. And at many schools, graduate departments found that women and older (over 26) men
made up larger portions of their enrollees than ever before. Some schools claimed that their students are of lower ability
than they would have been before the draft. Universities, which opposed the move to end graduate deferments, are reacting to
their students’ concern in many ways. Several heavily graduate universities, among them Massachusetts Institute of Technology, have announced that students
whose education is interrupted by the draft—either for two years of service or for a jail sentence for resistance—will later
be able to resume their degree work where they left off, and will stand a good chance of having their
fellowships renewed. Several schools are also investigating new degree programs like MIT's five-year engineering program—in which the student does not
officially receive his bachelor’s degree until he receives his master’s in a fifth year (and so is classed as an
undergraduate for five years). The institutions are understandably vexed. Many of them—like their students—concurred with the 1967 recommendations of the
President’s Commission on the Draft. The commission’s report suggested abolition of student deferment and reversal of the present oldest-first system.

Cramps Lecturers’ Style
By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

Some speakers would refuse to come to Davidson if they knew they had to publish their lectures, Dean of Faculty
Frontis W. Johnston said this week. Responding to a suggestion in last week's DAVIDSONIAN that Reynolds Lecturers be required to
publish in order to ensure effective lectures, Johnston also said it was hard to guarantee in advance a speaker whose
lectures students would find stimulating. Another Davidson lecture series, the Otts series, offers speakers an additional $250 for publishing, and
a majority of Otts lecturers have published. Scott Woodmansee, college chaplain and director of the Otts program, said that most
Otts lecturers are anxious to publish, since it enhances their national reputation and helps to “put their thoughts in front
of the people, which is good for theological debate all over the country.” Johnston said, however, that most Reynolds lecturers
have already acquired a national reputation.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 892-1496

INTRODUCING
A beautiful bracelet with a birthstone for each member of the family. She will cherish it forever. For Only $9.50
Sherrill’s Jewelry
Davidson, N. C.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub

THE ELK’S RESTAURANT
The Most Enjoyable Atmosphere in the Central Carolinas
Luncheon and Dinner Specials Mon. - Thurs.
A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat - every Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available for parties and banquets. Call anytime for reservations.
Located on Highway 21 just across from the Mooresville Golf Course

Graduate Schools Facing Draft Quota Difficulties

Weekend Festivities
FRIDAY
Combo Party: The Showmen with the designated drinking area: 8-12 p.m. Chambers Dining Hall
Flick: Billy Budd 8:15 p.m. Hodson Hall

SATURDAY
Concert: Mitch Ryder 8-10 p.m. Love Auditorium
Combo Party: The Alpines 10-1 a.m. Chambers Dining Hall
Flick: The Collector 10:30 p.m. Morrison Room
Purvis Lee (guitarist) 1-3 a.m. Morrison Room
Coffee and donuts; designated drinking area: Morrison Room

Third Edition Published On Abernethy’s Book

“Pakistan -- A Selected, Annotated Bibliography,” by philosophy professor George L. Abernethy, has just been published in its third edition
by the University of British Columbia. “The previous editions, which have been out of print for some time, have been
widely used in university libraries and South Asian Studies programs,” Abernethy said. “I prepared this enlarged revision while serving last
year as a Fellow in the Cooperative Humanities Program of Duke University and the University of North Carolina.”

HONEY’S RESTAURANT
105 W. Morehead
Catering to banquets and social events

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND
Gurley’s ESSO
MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS
PHONE 892-9304

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Lambswool, Alpaca, or Cashmere
We have your favorite Pullover V-Neck, Turtle Neck, Mock Turtle, or Button Cardigan.
by Cox Moore, Lord Jeff, or Van Heusen.
13.00 to 30.00
Use Your Charge Account
John Mack & Son
Our 56th Year
Mooresville
