RICHARDSON PROGRAM SEEKS FUNDS (See Page Six)

VOL. LVII

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1968

INDUCTION DELAYED

9 Students Protest Draft

A handful of Davidson students braved subfreezing temperatures today to join picket lines at the Charlotte induction center in a
demonstration of sympathy for George Vlasits, who says he will refuse induction into the U. S. armed forces. Vlasits’ induction,
scheduled for today in Raleigh, was called off on account of the weather, according to Lyn Wells, campus organizer for
the Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC). Miss Wells said Vlasits' induction is now scheduled for next Wednesday.

Nine Davidson students, who joined picket lines at 7 a.m. and noon, marched with several Charlotte residents and students from
the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and Belmont Abbey College. They marched for about 45 minutes in the morning
demonstration and for about an hour at noon. The pickets carried signs reading “The Draft Is Un-American,” “Old Soldiers Never
Die—Just Young Ones,” “Vietnam for the Vietnamese,” and “License To Kill.”

John Pancake, one of the student protesters, explained why the protest was held: “Normally when you disagree with a policy
or institution of the government, you can change it within the election system. However, right now there are no ways
to vote against the draft because there are few politicians who oppose the draft.”

“To try to change this situation,” he added, “we attempt to get people to think about their position on the
draft. We feel that by calling attention to the draft through protest, we can promote thoughtful consideration of the draft.”

The demonstrations were peaceful throughout. There were no incidents. Several passersby heckled the demonstrators, however, yelling obscenities at them. And
at the noon demonstration, two counter pickets marched in the midst of the students. The counter pickets, men who appeared
to be in their thirties, carried signs reading “Win in Vietnam” and “We Don't Want Any Draft Dodgers.” At one
point, a man wearing civilian clothes came out of the induction center with coffee for the counter pickets. Charlotte police
did a good job maintaining order, according to Pancake, a Davidson junior who helped organize the march. There were two
uniformed policemen at the door of the induction center, which is located at 914 Pecan Ave. Others stayed in nearby
cars. The temperature at 7 a.m. today was 17 degrees. At noon it had climbed to only 20 degrees. A
total of some 30 marchers participated in the two demonstrations, held simultaneously with a demonstration in Raleigh. The N. C.
demonstrations were sponsored by the N. C. Student Committee Against the War (SCAW).

Vlasits, a 25-year-old former teacher, applied recently for reclassification from 1-A to that of conscientious objector and was refused. Last
Oct. 20 he was one of some 1,080 young men who handed in their draft cards to the U. S.
Justice Department. Vlasits could face a charge of nonpossession of a card as well as draft resistance if he refuses
induction next Wednesday.

DRAFT ‘BASICALLY UNDEMOCRATIC’

Vlasits assails Vietnam war. Draft Immoral, Objector Claims

By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

A former teacher and graduate student who plans to refuse induction into the army spoke here Wednesday night on his
opposition to the draft. George Vlasits, wearing a pink shirt with a blue tie and a green coat, gave four
reasons for opposing the draft.

“First, the draft is basically undemocratic. It forces people to do things that they wouldn't otherwise do. Freedom is basically
antithetical to this,” he said.

Vlasits also charged that the draft is discriminatory, immoral, and interrelated with the war in Vietnam. He said that without
the war there would be no draft, and without the draft there could be no war.

After Vlasits made a short talk, there was a question and answer period in which Vlasits was sharply questioned. About
two dozen people, including two members of the administration, heard at least parts of the discussion. Unlike many of those
resisting the draft, Vlasits has signified his willingness to accept punishment under the law, including almost certain imprisonment. He drew
praise from most of those present, including those not approving his stand.

Davidson students picketed the Charlotte induction center today in an anti-draft movement. “My positive responsibility toward the people of the
United States is to oppose an unjust and immoral law,” said Vlasits, when challenged that he offered only a negative
position on the war. Vlasits offered an indictment of the fact that there is no alternative method of serving the
nation besides the draft.

Vlasits attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill as a graduate student in sociology. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa and was a teacher before going to graduate school. He is also a member of the
Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC).

Election Season To Start

Tentative dates have been set for the election of a new Miscellany editor, Social Council chairman, and Union Board president.
Bruce Weihe, Student Council Elections Committee chairman, said today that these elections will be held during the week of Feb.
4-10, the week after Rush Week. He added that the setting of filing dates would be up to the organizations
for which the new officers will be elected. According to Sam Boyte, chairman of the Publications Board which must approve
the Miscellany candidate, anyone seeking that editorship must file with Buddy Newsom, present editor, by chapel period Monday.

Rush Begins After Exams

The Interfraternity Council announced Wednesday the schedule for Rush Week, Jan. 29-Feb. 3. Freshmen registered for rush Wednesday afternoon in
Hodson Hall. Rushees will pick up date cards Sunday in Hodson Hall from 2 to 4 p.m. Rush parties will
be held on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday nights. From 10:15 p.m. Tuesday until 8 a.m. Thursday, there will be
a period of silence. Dorm rush will be prohibited, and no freshmen will be allowed in fraternity houses during the
period of silence. There will be another period of silence in effect from 10:15 p.m. Friday until 3 p.m. Saturday.
The same restrictions will apply during this period. Freshmen may pick up their redate cards for the Thursday and Friday
night rush parties at 1 p.m. Wednesday afternoon at Hodson Hall. From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday freshmen may
pick up their bids. Those accepting bids must turn them in at the College Union by 2 p.m. Saturday. The
entire semester break period will constitute a period of silence, said Gus Cochran, IFC president.

Student Body To Join Search For President

Four To Advise

Welsh’s Concerto To Debut Monday

A unique musical work will have its world premiere here Monday night. Wilmer Welsh's “Concerto for Voice and Orchestra,” whichwill
be performed for the Artist Series by soprano soloist Ilona Kombrink and the Chicago Little Symphony is unusual in several
respects. The concerto is unique because it uses the voice of Miss Kombrink as if it were an orchestral instrument.
After she sings the introductory text for each of the three movements, she vocalizes an “aah” sound throughout the remainder
of the movement. Welsh, associate professor of music, has been in Chicago during the past week for rehearsals with Miss
Kombrink and the symphony. Welsh wrote the work expressly for Miss Kombrink. He decided to write it for her after
she performed last year as Potiphar's wife in his first concerto, “Joseph.” The concerto takes its theme from the Song
of Solomon, describing the soul's mystic longing for God, its attainment of that goal, and its peaceful union with Him.
In commenting on the concerto, Miss Kombrink said, “I am terribly excited—there are so many thoughts and colors that you
can’t pull me down to earth.” “Both Miss Kombrink and I feel a piece of music to be sung should
give as much freedom of interpretation for the singer as for the conductor,” Welsh commented. “She has to say something
there in addition to what I (the composer) have said.” Miss Kombrink noted that Welsh had given her “much freedom
of interpretation,” and added that the words of (See WELSH, Page Six)

Glassy Glaze, Sore Seats

Umbrellas, slick sidewalks, and slightly bruised posteriors were the main course on the menu for Davidson students all week. This
diet proved rather distasteful to all and especially unpleasant for those suffering injuries from falls on the icy pavements. Senior
Price Cameron slipped on the walk at the east end of Duke Dormitory, flipped over backwards, and sustained a dislocated
collarbone. He spent the night in the emergency ward at Memorial Hospital and spent a day recuperating in the infirmary.
Sophomore Joe Jones suffered a bruised back following a fall on the steps of Chambers Building. Another senior reportedly had
his car stall in the mud near Lake Norman late Tuesday night and had to ask the assistance of a
farmer with a tractor to push his car out. The rumor that someone slipped on the infirmary steps and broke
a leg was denied by infirmary personnel, however. Perhaps the strangest phenomenon of the week occurred Tuesday night when the
temperature rose from 28 degrees at 7 p.m. to a nighttime low of 32 degrees.

DAVIDSONIAN Gets Exam Break

Tonight’s DAVIDSONIAN is the last issue before the exam break. Following exams, the newspaper will resume publication on Friday, Feb.
2. A number of staff positions will be open for the second semester issues, according to Editor Sam Boyte. He
urged interested students to contact Managing Editor Robbie Hooker (R 315) or News Editor Bob Dunham (B 224).

Selection Group

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Managing Editor

The trustee committee appointed this week to find a successor to President D. Grier Martin has asked the Student Council
to name a student committee to assist in the selection process. In a letter to student leaders this week, Trustee
President Walter L. Lingle Jr. authorized the formation of a committee of up to four students to consult with the
trustee selection committee, of which Lingle is chairman. The faculty has also been asked to elect an advisory committee of
up to six members to assist in the nomination of a successor to Martin, who will leave office June 30.
The overall selection process was worked out Monday in Charlotte at a meeting of the trustee Executive Committee, Dean of
Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, representatives from the President’s Office, and other college officials. Appointed by the trustee Executive Committee to
the nominating committee were: William F. Mulliss of Charlotte, secretary; Dr. Warner Hall of Charlotte; Charles F. Myers Jr. of
Greensboro; and Lingle, of Cincinnati, Ohio. Authorization for the student advisory committee was prompted in part by letters to the
trustee Executive Committee from Student Council President Tom Earnhardt, Blue Sky Committee member Bobby Lane, and DAVIDSONIAN Editor Sam Boyte.
Lingle said yesterday in a (See SEARCH, Page Six)

Successor Not Picked

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

Representatives from both the college administration and the trustee selection committee denied rumors this week that a successor for President
D. Grier Martin was chosen before he announced his resignation. Both Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president, and Walter L.
Lingle Jr., of Cincinnati, Ohio, president of the Board of Trustees, refuted the charges that the formation of a selection
committee is just a formality which will be used to rubber-stamp the original selection. It was rumored by unidentified sources
at the college that the selection was made by a group of three or four trustees who either knew about
or suspected Martin's plans to resign. While the reasons given were not explicit, the persons behind the rumors cited an
offer of a top-level administrative job at Davidson to an educator last fall as evidence. The offer was not accepted.
Lingle, who is also the chairman of the trustee selection committee, said yesterday in a telephone interview, “there is absolutely
nothing to the rumor, and it is as simple as that.” “We are extremely anxious to get all possible suggestions,”
he added, “and we are not going to talk about anyone until ample time has been given for suggestions from
all parties concerned.” Bondurant referred to the rumor as one which “tends to muddy the water” at a time when
“every effort is being made to find the right man.” He denied any charges of “coup d’etat” tactics on the
part of the selection committee, saying, “These are men of integrity and great love for Davidson College. All the work
they are doing is strictly above board.” Bondurant noted that “there may be men at the front of the selection
committee’s list,” but he added that “there are many others on the list too, and each one will receive the
fullest amount of attention.” He commented on another aspect of the search, saying “With the Davidson reputation and resources as
they now stand, the committee will be able to make America its playground in trying to find the right man
to succeed Dr. Martin. “The committee will look hard and long at each possible candidate,” he said, (See LINGLE, Page
Six)

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, January 13
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball Blacksburg, Va. — Davidson vs. V.P.I.
8 p.m. Basketball Morgantown, W. Va. — Davidson vs. West Virginia
8 p.m. Movie College Union — “The Deadly Affair”

Sunday, January 14
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service

Monday, January 15
8 p.m. Artist Series Concert Lingle Chapel Love Auditorium — Chicago Little Symphony — Ilona Kombrink, soloist

Saturday, January 20
All Day Graduate Record Exams Chambers Dining Hall

Friday, January 26
All Day Mid-semester break begins

Saturday, January 27
6 p.m. Freshman Basketball Greensboro Coliseum — Davidson vs. Wake Forest
8 p.m. Basketball Greensboro Coliseum — Davidson vs. Wake Forest
