Page Six April 26, 1968

She Davidsanian

Aid Refusal Sparks Senate Investigation

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate appointed a four-member committee at its meeting last night to investigate current problems in the infirmary system
and to present a proposal to the Senate on possible revision of the current arrangement. The Senate created the committee
in response to a report by freshman senator Rich Cowart, who pointed out the inadequacies of the present system in
an emergency situation. Cowart told the Senate that a freshman was seriously injured last week late one night but all
attempts to secure medical assistance failed.

“Dr. Woods refused to come to the dorm at 2 a.m. and we also discovered that the infirmary has no
night phone,” said Cowart. “The injured person finally made it to the infirmary over an hour after the injury occurred.
We were just lucky it wasn’t too serious.”

Cowart suggested that the Senate examine the possibility of acquiring some type of ambulance service with the Mooresville Hospital. The
committee also plans to investigate the overall infirmary arrangements at Davidson and present suggestions for improvements. Larry Slade, John Passmore,
Richard Howard, and Cowart were appointed to the committee.

In other business, the Senate appointed students to fill six student-faculty committees and three student committees. The committees and the
appointees are: Student Life Committee, Joe Kilpatrick, Randy Phillips, and Joe Murphy; Library Committee, Jack McGeachy; Athletic Committee, Dave Fisher;
Academic Scheduling Committee, Bayard Miller; Educational Policy Committee, John Williams; Religious Program Committee, John Huggins, Charlie Newton, and George Johnson.
Student committees are: Student Recruiting Committee, Calvin Murphy, Gary Henschen, George Hannen, Alan Kirkpatrick, Steve Engstrom, and Gary Cash; Elections
Board, Covey Carter, Larry Slade, John Passmore, and Frank Murphy; and keeper of the gun room, Ken Telford.

The Senate also elected Bill Thompson to replace John Passmore on the Court of Appeals. Passmore resigned from the court
when he was elected to the Senate.

On Tuesday, the Senate passed a resolution which will be given to Athletic Director Tom Scott requesting that the sailing
team be given letters and be recognized as a major sport at Davidson. Passmore told the Senate that he also
planned to see Dr. Scott and the Faculty Athletic Committee about the possibility of erecting night lights on the tennis
courts.

Faculty, Students Examine Poverty

Six students and several faculty members are organizing a seminar, “Perspectives On Poverty,” to be held weekly during the first
two terms of next year. The program, which is open to other students and faculty, has four stated aims, listed
in the group's statement of purpose: to analyze and understand poverty, to aid the town in becoming aware of the
problems which face it, to create a “mutual learning experience” among the students and faculty involved, and to provide a
basis for “intelligent concrete action.”

Staff Newman, spokesman for the group, said that they hoped for 12 to 18 members with about a 2:1 ratio
of students to faculty. The program would follow a seminar format, with about a 20-minute introductory lecture followed by about
an hour of discussion. The group plans to use the town of Davidson as a source of information in the
seminar. The seminar is tentatively set to meet through the ninth week of the 10-week terms.

The study comes in the midst of a student boycott resulting from racial discrimination.

Campus Comment Time

Charlotte’s Birthday Will Swing

A 2-night jazz festival featuring such personalities as Dave Brubeck and Buddy Rich will be held May 10-11 at the
Charlotte Coliseum as part of Charlotte's Bicentennial Celebration. The theme of the festival is the expression of “the significance of
the past, the impatient challenge of the future, and above all, the celebration of freedom.”

Besides Rich, one of America’s top drummers, the first night's show includes two North Carolina natives, Nina Simone and Thelonious
Monk. Also taking part Friday night will be the Herbie Mann Quintet, the Newport All Stars, and Hugh Masekela. Jazz
pianist Brubeck will join with saxophonist Gerry Mulligan Saturday night. Also featured that night are Cannonball Adderley, Gloria Lynn, Art
Blakey, the Jazz Messengers, and others.

Students Call CRAP Excellent

Responding to the question, “What do you think of the CRAP report?” these students answered:

Carl Nordstrom, Freshman: It seems that all student involvement on committees has been token, with student representatives often having little
voice in the decisions. If the institution of the CRAP report is denied, it will show that the college has
decided that students have little or no personal responsibility. As for the report itself, I feel that it is excellent.

Al Jasper, Junior: The report was excellent, but on the whole was rather insignificant except for the two major rules
changes. Putting the burden on us sounds nice, but it doesn’t mean much. Students will do anything to get out
of work.

Honor (Continued From Page 1)

Thirty students out of 127, or 18.7 percent, said that they felt that the honor system was not working effectively.
Williams said that these results are perhaps misleading. Since only upperclassmen had returned the questionnaire, Williams pointed out that a
senior has had more opportunity to observe violations than a freshman. Williams also noted some confusion about the honor code.
Some students mistakenly believe that drinking on campus is an honor violation. Others, he said, are confusing violations of the
student body regulations with honor violations.

Williams said that he was aware that some students are committing honor violations, especially cheating. “We’re reminded of this almost
invariably at every exam period when students under stress have committed violations of various kinds,” he said. Cases of stealing
are particular problems, Williams said, “in that the unlocked door policy is very tempting to outsiders who feel no need
at all to comply with our honor system.”

“We wouldn’t need a court if the honor system were perfect,” Williams said. He added that the honor system is
not upheld by the Paul Garrigus, CRAP committee report is a great idea. The report does seem to end the
double standard, and I hope that the trustees will see fit to eliminate it. However, I've heard that some are
worried.

Davidsanian Staff

Associate Editors: JIM COOLEY, CHARLES McEWEN, ROBERT PYEATT, BOB REID, JOHN WILLIAMS
Managing Editors: FRANKLIN ANDERSON, DAVID SWEATT
Assistant Managing Editors: DICK ANDERSON, JOHN BOLINGER
Sports Editor: BOB DUNHAM
Assistant Sports Editor: ROCKY CROSSWHITE, BILL BERRY
News Editor: GEORGE ALLEN
Copy Editor: JOHN PANCAKE
Photography Editors: BILL OLSON, DAVID WEEMS
Photographers: JOE FRIEBELE, BOB McKELLAR, GEORGE ROBINSON
Cartoonists: NAT HEYWARD, DICK POOLE, CULLUM ROGERS
Assistant Business Manager: JACK WELLMAN
Circulation Manager: TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week: Biff Fine, Bill Seigler, Danny White, Rob Krehbiel, Norwood Poland, Jule Young, Paul Rowland, Don Hoyt, Ed
Hay, Allen Lewis, Bobby Ambrose, Hugh Marr, Danny Coltrane, Tom Vernon, Richard Hinson, and Sterling Abernethy.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (If billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036thing for student responsibility.
But sometimes I wonder if students are that responsible. However, it's worth a try. Such action would put Davidson at
the forefront of liberal arts institutions.

Freshman: The over the affect of alcohol on families, thinking that this might become a problem with students here. I
would hope that they could take a broader approach to the problem. 12-member court. Rather, it is individual students who
must enforce the honor system. Partly in contrast to the results of the two questionnaires, three faculty members said that
they had had little or no reason to believe that violations, particularly cheating, were occurring. Dr. Bruce Jackson, professor of
mathematics said, “I have no reason to expect any violations at all, based on my personal observation.” Maj. Joe Crawley,
assistant professor of military science, said that he had seen no honor violations during the three years he has been
at Davidson. In the ROTC Department, where the same tests are given to more than one section, Crawley said that
he had observed no increase in grades from one section to the next. That is, grades from a third period
class are generally no higher than those from a first period class. Dr. William T. Lammers, associate professor of biology,
said that he had noted only one honor violation while at Davidson. In general biology labs, Lammers said, that students
are expected to do their own work. They are not permitted to fill in lab manuals prior to their lab.
Assuming that cheating is occurring, Jackson said, “It's not surprising to me that faculty members haven't seen any.” He pointed
out that most faculty members leave the room once test and exam questions have been handed out.”

Almost everybody took time out from frolicking at some time last weekend to relax. Here fox and hounds recover from
what appears to have been a long night before the morning after. The Davidson Gentleman at left is obviously taking
time out from a hectic schedule of parties to tutor his date in the intricacies of quantum mechanics. Meanwhile, a
campus security officer (R.) lurks near the fraternity court, keeping a tired eye out for any rowdy students. (Staff Photos
by Friebele)

Quantum Break

Fraternities’ Wages Lower Than Duke’s Figures Tell The Story

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

While Duke University students have won higher wages for college employees there, average wages for cooks and other employees in
Davidson fraternities are less than the old Duke wage or the present Davidson College Union wages. However, operation of the
fraternity boarding system at Davidson is becoming increasingly expensive, according to Tom Covington, college fraternity liaison officer. Although at present
most houses seem to be managing satisfactorily,” Covington said, “it is getting harder to find competent help, especially good cooks,
who are in demand. The individual houses are not in as strong a position as say, the Union, which feeds
several hundred people.” “There is a critical number of members below which it is very difficult for a fraternity to
make ends meet.” he added. Other factors contributing to fraternity financial problems stem from college boarding rules. “The loss of
paying members to athletic training tables and freshmen eating in the Union is a burden to the fraternity,” said Bill
Thomson, Phi Delta Theta treasurer. “Whenever the pledges eat with us,” Thomson said, “the Union makes a profit.”

Students and labor leaders at Duke have joined in demanding a minimum hourly wage of $1.60 for all university employees
and recognition of the union. The current minimum wage for janitors and maintenance workers at Duke is the required $1.15.
Cafeteria employees there receive a base pay of $1.25 an hour, ten cents above the minimum set by the government.
Most Davidson fraternities now employ one house mother, two cooks, and from 7 to 14 student waiters. House mothers generally
receive around $200 a month, plus room and board. The cooks, working seven days and approximately 47 hours per week,
are paid from $45 to $60 weekly. Student waiters, chosen on the basis of need and competence, earn from $12
to $30 monthly for working an estimated 15 to 30 hours. In addition, some fraternities hire two to four student
house boys to wash dishes. They are paid $40 to $80 per month. Most fraternity officers also receive remuneration ranging
from $12 to $45 a month, depending on the job. All fraternity employees are paid a weekly or monthly salary
rather than hourly wages. As private clubs, fraternities do not come under the federal wage-hour law, but they do have
to pay Social Security. By contrast, all 19 Union cafeteria workers are paid at least $1.25 an hour, cooks receiving
more. The 38 student work-study employees are paid $1.40 per hour. The Union cafeteria, however, is not a non-profit organization.

Bynum Elected APO Head

Junior Tim Bynum was elected president of the Davidson chapter of Alpha Phi Omega National Service Fraternity in the annual
election of officers held Tuesday night at the College Union. The rest of the officers and their respective offices include:
John Roe, executive vice-president; John Bryant, first vice-president; Wray Stephens, second vice-president; John Bolinger, secretary; George Wagoner, treasurer; William Farris,
historian; Tom Maxwell, sergeant-at-arms; and Jack Jacobs and Ed Page, rush chairmen.

Business Faces Social Problems

Involvement in social problems can be found in business today, two members of the business community explained in a symposium
on business Monday night. The symposium was sponsored with money from the College Union's Activities Grant Foundation. Payton Woodson, chairman
of the board of directors of Occidental Life Insurance Co., and Jim Bradley, a graduate student in business administration at
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, discussed the role of the businessman in the symposium sponsored by Kappa
Alpha. Woodson pointed to managers as the source of power in business, the men who make the decisions in profit-making.
Bradley discussed the uses and results of profits.

Scotsman Warns Church Of Gulfs

By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

“I believe that the Westminster Confession of Faith should be framed and hung on the wall, with all honor—as a
great historical document—and replaced by a statement of faith that speaks to our era.” So spoke Dr. Hubert Black in
a rolling Scottish accent in Thursday’s chapel. After an applauded promise of brevity, Black launched into a discussion of three
gaps with which he is concerned as a minister. One of the better speakers on the predominant chapel theme of
the church and society, Black had a knack for turning phrases around to produce sharp aphorisms. “The church does not
have gaps; it has gulfs, chasms, and bottomless abysses,” he said, and then went into detailed speculation on the three
gaps he described as the people gap, the generation gap, and the clergy-laity gap. “I have an ambition to drag
the church, however reluctantly, into the twentieth century before the twenty-first hits us,” he said. Black described the people gap
as people not wanting the church “either to change or to come to grips with problems.” The generation gap he
ascribed to youthful indifference and separation growing out of parents staying with the old church while young adults move to
the suburbs. Black said the clergy-laity gap was between a conservative laity and an avant-garde clergy trying to prevent full-scale
retreat into the nineteenth century.

CRAP (Continued from Page 1)

SGA Constitution will have to be rewritten to conform to the judicial section in the CRAP report. Carroll stressed that
large and favorable turnouts are necessary at these two votes so that the trustees may be favorably impressed by the
climate for change on the campus. Carroll also felt it was important to emphasize that the report is not just
a freer system of regulations for students. Instead, it is a new code of responsibility that places great trust in
the students to fulfill responsibly the freedom implied in it. Discussing the report itself Carroll pointed to the two dimensions
in the report. Besides the regulatory, there is a philosophical dimension that tries to describe ideal conduct in financial, academic,
and social endeavors. It is this second facet that Carroll feels is most important because it depends on a new
student attitude toward responsibility. Carroll said a student must have responsible conduct as well as “involving himself in the actions
of his fellow students.” Although the system is not like an honor system, Carroll expressed hope that each student would
realize that “he is bound by his conscience” to display proper conduct.
