BENCH ROCKY

A Practice Session

Since most of you have never watched a Davidson basketball practice session because Lefty always “closes” them, I decided to
write about this aspect of the season. For about two or three hours almost every day when we don’t have
a game, we run, jump, shoot, and get irritated with basketball. We do get Sundays off due to the Student
Conduct rule of the college which states, “On the Sabbath day there shall be no conduct of any sort inconsistent
with the proper keeping of the Sabbath.” I wonder if this means basketball is work.

Although practice sessions change in content depending upon the situation at any particular time in the season, most consist of
the basic elements: running, ball handling, shooting, and rebounding. We all have to go to the gym 15 to 30
minutes before practice is scheduled to start so that we can get taped in respect to what is physically wrong
with us. To miss practice, it seems you have to have a broken neck or something like it.

Lefty usually gives us a sort of pep talk at the opening of practice sessions, encouraging us to hustle because
we are only in the gym for two hours a day. Speaking of pep talks, it must really be hard
for Lefty to think up inspiring words to tell us before some of our games, like last week's George Washington
game. George Washington is the team that clinched last place in the Southern Conference two weeks ago. The only thing
Lefty tried to tell us was that after our first game with them in Johnston Gym, GW’s coach told the
sports writers that he “wasn’t that impressed with Davidson.” Of course, this was an answer to the question of how
did Davidson and the University of Houston Cougars compare (GW had played Houston previously). Before the game Saturday Lefty told
us, “Let’s impress them this time.” It was a good try at a pep talk, but still, even after our
second victory over the Colonials, I don’t think their coach believes we are as good as Houston.

Well, after this pre-practice pep talk there is a mass scramble for the medicine balls (heavy leather balls which feel
like they have been filled with lead). Everyone tries to get the lightest one. We pass these around for a
few minutes and then we shoot layups or have a passing drill. A missed layup, or a bad pass, or
a dropped pass, or just about anything merits a lap around the gym.

Then we usually have “spot shooting” which is individual work on where we get shots against both man-to-man and zone
defenses. Sometimes the skins (substitutes) are at a loss of what to do, but we do have good imaginations. Everyone
then shoots twenty-five foul shots. Then we go over the next opponent's offense. The skin team is used as guinea
pigs for this endeavor. Sometimes I think that Pickens, Orsbon, or myself would make good coaches because we have all
played every offense and defense imaginable in the last two years, or so it seems. One week we'll be West
Virginia, the next VPI, the next Richmond, and so forth. Pickens has imitated many opposing players from Ron Williams of
WVU, to Tommy Hagen of Vandy, to Glen Combs of VPI. What usually happens is the skins run the opponents'
offense for a few minutes, then we gradually move to our own style of run and shoot basketball. It’s always
a lot more fun.

After this academy-award-winning act by the skins, the starting team runs their offense with the many different plays. If we
don’t have conditioning exercises planned, we shoot our foul shots and leave. Every practice is different but most of what
I have described is representative of what takes place with certain additions.

Due to practices, more than games, the players get to know each other better as people. Earlier this year when
we were in Nashville, we worked out at Vanderbilt field house the day before the game. Lefty was explaining some
important point of Vanderbilt’s offense and he caught Dave Moser drinking water from a plastic squeeze bottle. He told Dave
to put the bottle down and pay attention. Immediately, Jan Postma (his mind wanders occasionally) picked up the same bottle
and started drinking. Naturally, Lefty got upset, took away the bottle, and yelled at Postma. Jan went up to Dave
and said, “Dave, why didn’t you tell me.” From then on Jan has been affectionately known as “Fog” Postma. Certain
other nicknames have developed, which I can’t mention here.

IMAC Schedule Progresses

With the IMAC basketball season nearing its close, the handball competition has begun. Next week the swimming meet will be
held. Handball began last week, with the SAE's, KA's and the Delts posting first-round victories. The SAE's downed the Pikas.
The Gams fell at the hands of the KA’s, while the Delts won over the SPE’s. The SAE’s and the
Delts added second-round wins, the Betas falling to the SAE's and the Machis losing to the Delts. The Sigs picked
up a second-round win over the ATO’s. The Independents downed the KA’s, also in second-round play. The only third-round action
played thus far saw the SAE's defeat the Indies.

The preliminaries for the swimming competition will begin at 8 p.m. Monday. Then Tuesday night the finals will be held.
Entries for the swimming competition are due by Saturday. Freshmen will participate in the swimming events in a meet separate
from the fraternity meet. Pledges will not swim with their fraternities.

Wildcats Snare Title With Richmond Win

Davidson clinched the regular season Southern Conference title Wednesday night by outlasting the Richmond Spiders, 106-89. The win gives the
‘Cats the number one seed in the conference tournament which begins next Thursday. A near capacity crowd watched as the
Wildcats methodically ambled to their 43rd consecutive win in Johnston Gym. The game was slowly played, with both teams making
numerous turnovers and committing many fouls. When it was all over, Mike Maloy again was at the top of the
Wildcat attack. The flashy sophomore hit for 21 points, adding 18 rebounds, while playing only a little over half the
time. Lending a great deal of support to the ‘Cat cause was a 19-point effort by Mike O’Neill. The junior,
who started all last season, came off the bench to turn in his best performance of the year. Doug Cook,
Wayne Huckel, Dave Moser, and Rod Knowles all hit in double figures for Davidson. Wilton Ford captured the game honors
with 27, 15 in the first half. The lackluster victory pulled the overall record of the ‘Cats to 18-4 with
one remaining regular season game. Tomorrow night Davidson hosts Tulane in the Coliseum to close out the season. Last Saturday
the Wildcats dumped an 85-72 loss into the hands of conference doormat George Washington. That game saw Maloy tossin 33,
the high point production for any Davidson player this year. The GW win and the victory over Richmond extended the
‘Cat string of victories to eight straight. Of their last 11 outings, the Wildcats have won 10. The recent wins
have pulled Davidson to 17th in the UPI national poll.

"Catfish Scuttle Emory; To Face SC Opponents

Davidson's swim team, fresh from a 64-40 dual meet victory over Emory University, faces back-to-back conference meets against VMI and
George Washington this weekend. The ‘Catfish, now 4-2, left Thursday for Lexington, Virginia, where they swam earlier today against VMI.
Tomorrow they face George Washington in Washington, D.C.

Swimming Coach Tom Stevens said that the ‘Catfish broke two individual records during the meet last Friday against Emory. Freshman
George Steel swam the 500-yard freestyle in 5:41.4. Another freshman, Bill Woodson, captured the 200-yard medley in a record 2:16.1.
“I was really pleased with Steel’s breaking the 500-yard freestyle record,” said Stevens. “As a matter of fact, he and
Eddie Beach both broke it.” Beach, who formerly swam the breaststroke but is now swimming distance because of a knee
injury, placed second. Jack Steele, a third freshman, was high-point man in the meet for Davidson, winning both the 100
and the 200-yard freestyle. Beach was second with a first in the 1000-yard freestyle and a second in the 500-yard
freestyle.

By BOB DUNHAM
News Editor

A major contributing factor in Davidson's late-season winning streak has been the aggressive inside play of Mike Maloy. The New
York sophomore has enjoyed three of his best nights as a Wildcat in the team's last three outings, scoring 73
points and pulling down 59 rebounds. After his two-point performance against Richmond in Richmond, the worst night of his Davidson
career, Maloy began to pick up the pace. His showing against St. Joseph's in Philadelphia's Palestra was the best of
the season. His 19 points and 23 rebounds drew praise from Coach Lefty Driesell and a number of sports writers.
In commenting on the game, Driesell made note of the fact that Maloy's rebound total was only four short of
Fred Hetzel's individual game record. “He did a great job for us in Philadelphia," Driesell said. “He did a fine
job of blocking shots and guarding the basket.”

Maloy's play prompted a columnist with the “Philadelphia Evening Bulletin,” Sandy Grady, to devote an entire column to him. Grady's
article made special note of Maloy’s efforts as a peacemaker under the backboards. In the heated play at the Palestra,
said Grady, it was Maloy’s coolness which kept the game under control. Maloy proved his worth as a point producer
again against George Washington University with a 33-point performance, the team's season high. In this game, he also set the
season high for field goals scored at 14. Johnston Gymnasium was the site Wednesday night of Maloy's third high-performance game
in a row, as he pulled down 18 rebounds while contributing a game-high 21 points in Davidson's 106-89 victory over
the Spiders of Richmond.

McEver Named Freshman Coach

Gene McEver, a two-time All-America during his college football career, was named new freshman football coach today. McEver will be
the head freshman coach next season, allowing Bob Brown to assume full-time duty as a varsity assistant. The job marks
the second time that McEver will have coached Davidson grid teams. He was coach of the varsity teams between 1936-44.
McEver played tailback and halfback at the University of Tennessee and was named All-America twice. “I knew about Gene McEver
long before I came to Davidson,” Head Coach Homer Smith said. “I know that our freshman players will love having
him as their first teacher of college football.” In addition to his formerly coaching at Davidson, McEver also has coached
professional teams. “Having him with us in the fall will be just too good to be true,” Smith concluded.

EXECUTIVE TRAINEES CAREER OPPORTUNITY

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

UNLIMITED!!! PROSPECTIVE GRADUATES DID YOU KNOW...

The S.S. Kresge Company is the fastest growing major retailer in the world. The S.S. Kresge Company has over 950
stores located in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. The S.S. Kresge Company tripled its sales in the last
9 years and has doubled its sales in the last 3 years. ($1,090,000,000—1966) The S.S. Kresge Company has opened over
216 Kmart Discount Department Stores since March of 1962. THIS MEANS... Challenge! Opportunity! and Fulfillment! STORE MANAGEMENT and EXECUTIVE POSITIONS
reached in RECORD TIME! —WRITE TO— J. R. Lynch 2581 Piedmont Road, N.E. Atlanta, Georgia, 30324 JUPITER MERCHANT Divisions of
the S.S. Kresge Company An Equal Opportunity Employer

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN

Washington Birthday
1318 W. Morehead St.
Thursday, Feb. 22
Through Saturday, Feb. 24th
Phone 376-2576

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

Let us CAREFULLY Dryclean Your Sport Clothes For the Tournament. You will be glad you did. We also have a
Shirt Laundry Service.

JACKSON CLEANERS

We are now beginning to receive a good selection of Spring Suits, Coats, Slacks, Shirts, and Bermudas. Buy early and
save having to rush at Spring Frolic time.

Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Just Beyond Coffee Cup Restaurant
Davidson, N.C.
Greenville, S.C.
Our 56th Year
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
