Page Six November 22, 1968

WEEKEND HEADLINERS

The Drifters, a pop rock group, will entertain tomorrow night at 8 with a show and dance in the basement
of Chambers. IDs will be required for admission.

MSA To Sponsor New Civic Project
By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

The Married Students Association, with the help of Cashion's better-than-green-stamps policy, is planning a community project using money earned from
grocery receipts. Phil Hazel, president of the MSA, said the organization can get a one percent return from all college
bills at Cashion's Food Store in Cornelius, provided they have receipts. Hazel addressed last week's IFC meeting. He asked the
fraternities to save any receipts from Cashion’s. The MSA is planning either a playground for the community children or a
beautification program outside the college.

Hazel said that the 21 couples of the MSA could raise $250 this year by themselves. He said, “With the
fraternities’ help, we could probably get an additional $300 per year, which would go a long way towards getting a
playground.” A “married students follies” will be held this spring to raise additional funds. The married students’ group was first
formed last spring and received its charter earlier this fall from the student Senate. The chief concern of MSA is
to assist the administration in finding more and improved housing accommodations for the college's married students.

Worker Benefits Hiked

New policies on holidays, vacation, and leave for non-academic personnel, representing increases in each case, were announced this week by
the college administration. “This represents the first real standardization of our policies in this area,” said Robert J. Stephenson, assistant
business manager. “Previously matters such as sick leave were often decided subjectively, so that our practices were not always consistent.”

The number of holidays has been increased to 10 and the vacation period to two calendar weeks for all full-time
custodial, maintenance, and laundry employees with 12 months of service prior to July 1, 1969. “I want Davidson to be
known as the best place in the area to work,” said President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. He said he felt
the college should set the pace in such matters as compensation and working conditions, as one way of fulfilling its
responsibility to the local community.

APO To Sponsor Drive For Needy

Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity has started a drive to collect food, clothing, and toys for needy families. Each social
fraternity has been asked to contribute $15 to the drive, and APO will seek contributions from independent upperclassmen and freshmen.
Wray Stephens, a junior who is coordinating the effort, said he hopes to have money and goods collected before Thanksgiving.
A local social worker has provided the names of needy families.

Social Planning Shifted

The Social Council will now be responsible for all social activities on all concert weekends, according to Social Council President
Charlie Cameron. These added responsibilities for the Social Council came as a result of the dissolution of the Union Social
Committee. The now-defunct Union Social Committee was previously in charge of all concert weekend activities except the concerts themselves, which
were the only responsibility of the Social Council. The Social Council will now plan and administer all weekend activities, including
8 p.m. concerts, dances, bonfires, late-night concerts, and breakfasts.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
BIFF FINE

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

Cartoonists:
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week:
Harvey Jackson, Sterling Abernethy, Ed Shoaf, Rob Krehbiel, Russ Merritt, Steve Williams, Don Parman, Jule Young, Steve Roady, John Rowe,
Chris Bickley, John McLean, Steve Cross, Norwood Poland, Todd Hobbie, Bill Lineaweaver, and Danny White.

Exams Policies Studied

Self-scheduled exams were approved in principle by the Educational Policy Committee Wednesday. The committee deferred the formation of a specific
plan to a smaller committee, consisting of Dr. Jay Ostwalt, Davidson registrar; John Williams; John Passmore, member of the student
Senate; and Pat Bray, Honor Court member. Ostwalt and Williams are regular members of the Educational Policy Committee.

The committee did decide there would be a four-day examination period in the fall and winter and a three-day period
in the spring. According to the plan presented by Williams last week, students would be able to schedule their exams
in whatever order they choose within these periods. Before the plan can be implemented, the report of the smaller committee
must be approved by the Educational Policy Committee again and by the faculty as a whole. It would not go
into effect until the second term.

The self-scheduled exam proposal was first presented to the committee last week, but it was tabled for a week after
some discussion. Several schools have already established self-scheduled exams, including Mary Baldwin.

WESTERN AUTO
LAY-AWAY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS
892-1496

ATTENTION HIGH SCHOOL AND COLLEGE MEN!

Happiness is BELL BOTTOMS
And Milton’s HAS THEM

The wait is over—the Living End ERA is here! The new look to capture your sartorial imagination is here! The
hottest new item on campus in years. Tan or Gray even striped corduroys...$9.00. Houndstooth corduroy — tan/brown/olive...$15.00. Salt and pepper
donegal...$15.00. Confederate blue gangster stripe...$15.00. Bell Bottom bold series belts by Canterbury, 1½" and 2" widths black and brown. Scarfs
$5.00. Pima broadcloth pincollar shirts with French cuffs. $9.95 Johnston & Murphy handsewn buckle loafers $27.50 You now have the
living 'End look detailed above and watch it take Carolina by storm, and remember, Milton’s started this fashion revolution! Milton's
CLOTHING CUPBOARD Charlottetown Mall Vet Union — BankAmericard And American Express Charge Invited $7.00 and $8.00.

OPEN HOUSE
The following faculty homes will be open to students this Sunday night at 8:
H. Alden Bryan 7 Jackson Ct.
J. N. Burnett 439-A N. Main
Malcolm Lester 228 Roundway Down
C. E. Ratliff 301 Pinecrest
Jon Regen 545 Lorimer
Locke White 203 Lorimer

Turkey Shoot Scheduled
Scabbard and Blade will sponsor the annual ROTC Turkey Shoot on Tuesday from 3 to 5:30 p.m. According to Scabbard
and Blade President Joe Norton, events will include guessing the weight of the turkey, guessing the number of shells in
a jar, and firing events in six categories. Categories for the firing events are the following: boys 12-15, girls 12-15,
ladies 16-39, ladies 40 and over, men 16-49 and men 50 and over. First prize for each event will be
a turkey. Gift certificates from local merchants will constitute the second and third prizes. Members of the rifle team will
be in charge of the range; Scabbard and Blade members will also assist with the events. Refreshments will be served.

ACTION, PLEASE
Computer Foul-Up Delays Chapel Cuts
Why haven’t chapel cuts been posted?—Mark Thompson
Chapel cuts have now been posted on the first and second floors of Chambers. The delay in posting them was
caused by a foul-up in the computer. The program used to record cuts was being rejected by the computer, and
no “read-out” was available. A list was compiled by hand and has been posted.

Why aren’t rooms in Chambers open for study at night?—Richard Hinson
The administration realized that many students wanted Chambers open for study at night, and since Monday a number of seminar
rooms on the first floor have been opened for student use. The hours are from 7-12 on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday nights. On Tuesday, rooms are used for Free University classes.

How will the grade point averages and course hours from last year be incorporated into the new grading system and
how will the ROTC credit be adjusted for sophomores?—Mike Jacobs
Registrar Jay H. Ostwalt said that a final decision has not yet been made concerning the integration of the old
and new grading systems. The decision will be made though within the next few weeks by the Educational Policy Committee,
he said. A decision on the question of ROTC credit will be made within a few days.

Why is it that janitors don’t do a more thorough job of sweeping dorm rooms in the morning?—Chris Bickley
The janitors’ duties include cleaning each room once a week, and cleaning the bathrooms and emptying trash cans daily in
each room. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, said that any complaints about janitor service should be made to her.

What is the school policy toward allowing Federal Bureau of Investigation agents to assume student identities or letting students work
for the FBI and investigate within the student body?—Name Withheld by Request
The dean of students’ office said that no specific policy has ever been established concerning the FBI at Davidson, because
the need for such a policy has never arisen. Assistant Dean of Students James J. Terry Jr. said that he
did not foresee the need for formulating such a policy in the future.

GAS UP FOR THE WEEKEND
Gurley’s ESSO
MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS
PHONE 892-9304

WESTERN NORTH CAROLINA OPERATION NATIVE SON
1968-69 GRADUATES FROM WESTERN NORTH CAROLINA??
The top industries from Hickory to Murphy want to talk with you—December 27 at Lee Edwards High School in Asheville—No
cost—Just opportunity—Register Now—Fill out above form and send to: Western Carolina Industries, Inc., 1507 N.W. Bank Building, Asheville, N. C.
28801

SEND FURTHER INFORMATION TO:
Your Name
College
College Address

THE SEASON? EXAMS COME RIGHT AFTER THE TURKEY
So Shop Now And Take Your Gifts Home At Thanksgiving Or We'll Gift Wrap And Hold Them Until You Leave.
For Christmas Check On Our New Books — Jewelry — Shirts

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

HONEY’S RESTAURANT
105 W. Morehead
Catering to banquets and social events

WANTED: Men and women to train for Civil Service examinations. We prepare men and women age 18-55, no experience necessary.
Grammar school education usually sufficient. Permanent jobs, no layoffs. Short hours, high pay and advancement. Stay on present job while
training. For a list of jobs and salaries send name, address, phone number and time at home. If rural give
directions to home. Write to CISCO TRAINING SERVICE P. O. Box 65, Blairs, Va. 24527 Zip Code

Court Elects Officers
The Davidson College Regulations Court, the joint student-faculty court set up under the Code of Responsibility, held an organizational meeting
Monday and elected officers for this year's court. Dr. R. David Kaylor, associate professor of religion, was elected chairman of
the court. Kaylor was a member of the Committee on Rules and Punishments, which drew up the code last spring.
Senior John Williams was elected vice-chairman of the court and junior Stagg Newman was elected recorder. The three court members
will draw up a set of procedures for trials.

Diamond Bridal Set $150
Diamond Heart $75
Our selection features the two most important things to look for when you buy a diamond...quality and value. Let us
show you how you can give Christmas radiance this year.

Jewelers of Trusted Reputation
Mooresville, N. C.

THE STUDENT STORE
Davidson
