FROM HATTIE’S TO METHODIST SERMONS (See Page Three)

RICHARD C. BURTS JR.

RHA Rules: The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1968

COMMISSIONS

“I have no intention of proceeding with any (future) open house until the situation (on rules) is clarified. The ones last spring and this fall were experimental.” —Richard C. Burts Jr.

“What do they want us to do? Knock on the closed doors and ask, ‘Are you studying or making out?’”

Old Or New?

The following sets of rules are at the core of the controversy over open dorms. The old rules, included in the Residence Hall Council Constitution, are generally favored by the dean of students’ office. The new proposals, which impose fewer restrictions on individuals, are favored by the Residence Hall Council.

Old Rules

1. Open House may be held for any three-hour period between the hours of 12 noon and 10 p.m. The House Committee shall—
2. Select at least three students to serve as hosts
3. Designate sufficient bathroom facilities for women guests
4. See that rooms are clean and orderly
5. See that room doors are left wide open during Open House.
6. Designate a reception area where at least one student will remain on duty throughout the hours the residence hall is open
7. Announce to all residents of the hall five minutes before women guests must leave the residence hall and announce again the precise time when women guests must be out of the building.
8. Only residence halls having complete, active House Committees may register for an Open House.

New Proposals

1. Open House may be held between the hours of 12 noon and 12 midnight. The House Committee shall—
2. Designate sufficient bathroom facilities for women guests.
3. Designate a reception area where at least one student will remain on duty throughout the hours the residence hall will be open.
4. Announce to all residents of the hall five minutes before women guests must leave the residence hall and announce again the precise time when women guests must be out of the building.
5. Only residence halls having complete, active House Committees may register for an Open House.
6. Each student is responsible for the appearance of his own room and will be expected to contribute to the joint effort of making the entire residence hall an adequate place to receive guests.

Committee Hears New Exam Plan

A proposal for self-scheduled exams was presented to the faculty's Educational Policy Committee Wednesday, then tabled for further discussion at the next meeting. No action was taken on the proposal, according to Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, who is committee chairman. “We discussed the exams, and we will continue talking about them at the next meeting.”

The plan was introduced by the student representative on the committee, John Williams, and was based on similar plans in effect at Haverford College and Mary Baldwin College. Williams said it would be necessary to take a sampling of opinion among the student body to determine their attitude to the proposal.

If put in effect, the plan would require that each student indicate on a special card several weeks before exams begin at what times he would prefer to take his exams. The student would receive another card back later telling what time his exam is scheduled. Although there is no assurance that a student will get the time he wants, the plan will ensure that more students will get favorable schedules, Williams said.

The plan would raise a few problems, among them that professors would not be present to answer questions during the exams. It would also place an extra burden on the honor system because students would be taking the same exam at different times.

—Peter Hobbie

Drop-Add Schedule Announced

Registration for students who want no course changes is already complete, said Registrar J. H. Ostwalt this week, but changes in courses will be possible today, next week and the week after. Seniors may change courses today and Monday; juniors, Tuesday and Wednesday; sophomores, Thursday and Friday; and freshmen, Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 25 and 26. Ostwalt said that course changes made after the designated days would cost a student $2 to add or drop a course. Academic waivers for the winter term would be granted only in emergency cases, said Ostwalt, but those for the spring term could be requested after Jan. 20.

Dean Blocks RHA, Hits Rule Change

PETER HOBBIE

Hobbie Questions Open Door Policy

By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

The prospect for more open dorms in the near future appeared rather gloomy this week after Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. revealed that there is some disagreement between the Residence Hall Council and the dean's office. The controversy in part revolves around which of two sets of rules will govern future open dorms.

“I have no intention of proceeding with any open house until the situation is clarified," said Burts. The two previous open dorms, in the spring of last year and the one last weekend, were termed “experimental” by Burts. They were held “partly to show students that a new spirit was moving,” he said.

Peter Hobbie, SGA vice president and head of the RHA, voiced concern that so much emphasis was being placed on the rules for open house, rather than the responsibility of the students involved. He said that “all this fuss over rules" defied the spirit of the Code of Responsibility.

Hobbie said that the Residence Hall Association should be a vehicle by which dorms can become a social organization in campus life. But the administration, he said, “sees it as a policing force." Hobbie admitted that dorms should assume a corporate type of responsibility for damage to dorms during open house, but that the RHA should not impose a corporate direction over dorm residents’ social life.

“The purpose of open dorms is not to pack the dorms with women," he said. “And I would call it a success if it adds something to the social life of only five people.” At any rate, said Hobbie, “the RHC isn't going to be just an enforcement agency.”

Late studies and virtually all other constructive activities were squelched by the freak snow-thunderstorm which all but crippled the Davidson campus and parts of Charlotte Tuesday. The storm caused huge limbs to break off many of the trees in the area and electricity was cut off when falling limbs shorted out power lines. The two-and-a-half-inch snow was the earliest measurable snow on record at Douglas Airport in Charlotte. The earliest previous record—

One of the rules which the administration favors is that doors be left “wide open" during open house. Hobbie asked whether this meant that all doors had to be left open, or just those of rooms where women were visiting. “What do they want us to do?” he said. “Knock on the closed doors and ask ‘Are you studying or making out?’”

Hobbie expressed the hope that rules would not have to be included which superseded the individual's own responsibility for his behavior, because this, he said, would “kill the spirit of the code.”

FIVE-YEAR PROPOSALS ANNOUNCED (See Page Four)EIGHT Lack Of Diversity Noted By GEORGE ALLEN News Editor President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. wanted "diversity." In instructing the Student Government Association Senate to appoint student members to his five commissions, Spencer emphasized that he wanted "diversity" in those students selected. He did not specify what sort of diversity he wanted. If one assumes that Spencer wanted diversity of opinion, approach, and philosophy, in some cases he got what he wanted; in most cases, he did not. Although it is too early to be pessimistic about the workings of the commissions, it is not premature to discuss the opinions of the students involved in them. A recent survey of the Spencer commissions was taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN and revealed that most of these students had similar ideas on what their particular commission should accomplish. All three of the students involved in the Commission on Coeducation, Pat Bray, Mac Davis, and Joe Murphy, are strongly in favor of coeducation at Davidson. All agreed that their commission would face the same problems: whether to build an alternate women's campus here, to admit women to the present campus, or to affiliate Davidson with an established women’s college, and how to finance the process of going coeducational. News Analysis Not one of these students had considered having Davidson remain a men’s college, all insisting that Davidson must become a coeducational institution if it is to continue to attract the better students. Peter Hobbie, Bayard Miller, and Al Varner are also essentially in agreement as to the approach they plan to take toward the Commission on Social Patterns. All felt that the goal of their commission is to devise a system which will offer every student at Davidson equal opportunities for social life. Each emphasized the need for a re-evaluation of the fraternity system, suggesting that the selective nature of the fraternity system could never encompass the entire student body. The Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities, composed of Joe Kilpatrick, James Parks, and Larry Slade, seems to be a little more diverse in opinion than those dealing with coeducation and social patterns. Although all three agreed that the objective of their commission should be to involve Davidson more with society at large, each has his own (See COMMISSIONS, Page 6)

CLIMBING THE WALLS Rumors have it the new curriculum is tough, but Fourth Floor Cannon seems to be taking it fairly hard. Not really, though. It’s actually a term paper project for the new action physical education program instituted under the Blue Sky Proposals. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

Five-Year Plan Committee Shows Methods To Assist Disadvantaged A group of students have written a proposal for admitting a large number of disadvantaged students to Davidson and allowing them to take five years to graduate. The Five-Year Plan Committee released its preliminary report this week and will present it to the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities, said George Robinson, a member of the group. The proposal has two purposes, Robinson said. It is designed to benefit society by educating members of low-income and minority groups who have previously been denied opportunities for higher education, and it will improve the total educational experience at Davidson by providing a more diverse student body. The report details the research of the committee into areas including selection of such students, their impact on the college and on society, and operation and funding of the program. The Five-Year Plan Committee was organized last spring by the Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP) executive committee to research various means of attacking the problem of education of the disadvantaged, said Robert Pyeatt, director of STEP. The committee conducted most of its research during the summer, including corresponding with and visiting a number of institutions which now operate such programs, Pyeatt said.

10 Senators Put On 3 Committees The SGA Senate appointed senators to three committees and heard a favorable report from John Passmore on the possibility of self-scheduled exams at the end of the trimester at its weekly meeting Tuesday. In appointing the committee members, President Joe Murphy said he hoped the Senate could begin doing most of its work in committees which are set up by the constitution. The Senate now meets once a week but plans to have meetings of the whole Senate only every other week once the committee system is functioning. Floyd Strand and Steve Salyer were elected to the Senate Executive Committee. The Committee on the Union and Social Life consists of Peter Hobbie, Frank Weise, C. L. Cheshire, Jody Turner, and Harlan Day. Rich Cowart, Frank Murphy, and John Passmore were appointed to the Educational Affairs Committee. Passmore presented a preliminary report from the Academic Scheduling Committee which is attempting to introduce self-scheduled exams. Passmore said he was confident this would be approved but that nothing definite would be known until next week. The ROTC and Chapel Program Committee failed to produce reports, so Murphy instructed them to meet this week and have a statement ready by next Tuesday. Harry Goldman, who abstained on the vote last week to make the ROTC program voluntary, then spoke up rather vehemently against the committee which will present proposals for implementation of a voluntary program.

Second Convention Looms A second constitutional convention — but this one over more controversial issues — looms as a result of several requests for changes in the SGA constitution by the faculty Student Life Committee. Among the changes are the creation of a joint student-faculty court of appeals, and the elimination of a clause in the Bill of Rights guaranteeing students their rights "as citizens." The Senate is expected to consider proposing a constitutional convention to consider these and other changes at its meeting Tuesday night.