Page Four April 26, 1968

She Mavidsanian

Norwood’s Airport Maintenance Revs Up For Flying Instruction

By DAVID WEEMS
Photography Editor

Sophomore Tommy Norwood has a different idea of “flying” than most students do. Rather than pumping away in the library,
he thinks of pumping gas into airplanes.

NORWOOD REPAIRS PLANE

He’s a jack-of-all-trades at a local airport.

How many people would hitchhike almost 36 miles, three times a week, in any kind of weather, just for the
privilege of doing all the little odd jobs involved in running a small airport's flying service? Norwood does just that
and has been since October.

“I've been working at Brockenbrough Airport near Huntersville in an attempt to pay for flying lessons,” he said. “In return
for an afternoon’s work, I receive an hour of flying time, and also in the course of my work I
learn a lot about airplanes and flying in general.

“My job includes just about everything imaginable, from changing the oil on the planes, pumping up the wheel struts, gassing
planes that come in transit, taxiing the planes into the hangar at night, taking care of the office, mopping the
floors, and anything else that needs being done.”

About two weeks ago, the work paid off when he was finally allowed to solo for the first time. After
a short lesson, his instructor asked him if he felt he could handle it by himself. “I told him I
could, and he told me just to remember that the plane was not going to handle the same without him,
and that if I got into trouble up there that I had four hours of fuel to use in getting
it down.

“I took it around the field and made a rather poor landing, but it was back on the ground. When
I was rolling to a stop, I realized what I had done. I didn't think about being by myself when
I was up in the air.”

Norwood has been interested in flying since he can remember, but until he finally quit playing football this fall, he
had not had the chance to take lessons. He was told about the chance to work at Brockenbrough by Dr.
S. D. Maloney, who had been trying for some time to form a student flying club.

In the process of his work there, he feels, he has learned more about flying than most people would just
taking lessons. “I've learned more about the function of airplanes by working with them. Also, I've listened to the different
pilots talk about their experiences in the air.”

Not all that he has learned, however, has been of this usual type. “I've seen a lot of bad habits
formed by other pilots, habits which I don't intend to put into my own repertoire.

“A lot of people are just not that safety-conscious, and by watching their mistakes I have learned the reasons behind
the air safety rules. We've had no real accidents, but we've come real close a couple of times.”

Alcohol Regulations

Last of a Series

By BOB REID
Associate Editor

While Davidson ponders its policy on drinking, some Southern schools have already modified their stand on the use of alcohol.
Several liberal arts colleges, including Washington and Lee University, University of the South, and Southwestern at Memphis, have either liberalized
their stands or have them under consideration.

“Our alcohol regulations have been under consideration by a subcommittee since February,” said Charles Diehl, dean of men at Southwestern-at-Memphis.
“They have come up with some changes, although I am not entirely familiar with the specific proposals.”

“The proposals will be submitted to the full committee and then the faculty soon,” Diehl said. “I think it’s fair
to say that our policy will not be what it is this year.”

Southwestern’s present rules state that alcohol is not permitted in the dormitories, fraternities, and sororities, or anywhere else on campus.
Students may not be served alcoholic beverages at college or Greek functions, although students may brown-bag at parties. Students caught
in violation of these rules are generally placed on probation, Diehl said.

At Washington and Lee University, drinking is not permitted on campus. But, according to the rules, fraternity houses and many
off-campus residences are not covered by the drinking regulation. Most drinking at W&L takes place in the fraternity houses and
is therefore legal under the college's rules. According to officials in the Office of the Dean of Men, there is
little drinking in the dormitories and punishment for the violation is light.

W&L, like other schools in the area, leaves enforcement of drinking rules to civil authorities. “Our position is that of
the law,” said John Webb, dean of men at the University of the South. “We are in a dry county
in a local option state. These students over 21 can buy and possess beer. Everything else is illegal.”

But the administration at Sewanee seems to care little about enforcing the Tennessee liquor law. “Students can drink in their
fraternity houses,” Webb said. “But we seldom go in there and check people's birth certificates.”

Damage has been a problem at Sewanee, Webb said, and much of it can be traced to drinking. “We have
a regulation against drinking in the dorms. But I'm sure it is highly abused. There is a good deal of
damage, and sometimes there is considerable damage. If it happens in the fraternity houses, we expect the fraternities to handle
the matter themselves.” Violations are processed through student courts, he said. But at Sewanee, as at Southwestern, W&L, and Duke,
drinking is not an honor violation.

“Putting drinking under the Honor System is like putting things like walking on the grass under it,” Webb said. “The
ideal solution is that a college man ought to be mature enough to drink without getting drunk.”

Until this year, Duke maintained two sets of rules on drinking, one for men and another for women. Now, coeds
too can drink in their dorms and quadrangle areas. Classes, cafeterias, hallways, and outdoor areas are the only dry spots.
But according to a senior coed, there is less drinking in women's dorms now than before the rule was changed.

“People on East Campus (Coed) don't drink that much anymore,” said Sally Foot. “When I first came here there were
about 10 or so girls on every floor who drank illegally. Now it’s accepted, and I think the amount has
decreased, too. All the fears about damage and alcoholism were in vain.”

“People around here are worrying about more important things than a petty drinking rule,” she said.

PROFESSORS don't hold Open House for their health. They expect students to come.

Dome Room Renamed

The Dome Room, long a favorite student hangout, was rechristened Monday morning and is now Thomas L. Perkins Auditorium. It
was formally renamed to honor Perkins, chairman of the trustees of the Duke Endowment and “a long-time friend of Davidson,”
according to a News Bureau press release. Perkins was present to participate in the program along with President Emeritus John
R. Cunningham, President D. Grier Martin, and trustees of the college.the Duke Endowment.

Frye Says Society’s Mythology Determines Nature Of Poetry

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Changes in mythology have determined the nature of poetry in all ages, according to Northrop Frye, professor at the University
of Toronto, who spoke in the Thomas L. Perkins Auditorium — better known as the Dome Room — Wednesday. Frye,
a literary critic and author, said that the earliest mythology was that of the mother-goddess, who created the world in
a sexual manner. He added that the mother goddess was replaced by the sky-god when males began to dominate society
as artificers.

With the coming of Christianity, the medieval myths had been that only devils could be found in nature, but nature
was to be regarded as evidence of God, Frye said. “Poetry in each of these periods reflected the myths of
the age,” Frye said, “but in the Romantic period the poets tried to link man’s spiritual and secular lives through
nature.” Frye said that metaphor and simile had been developed to perform this correlative function. “Man’s participation in nature was
no longer subject-object but is a part of nature’s organic process,” he said.

Frye also pointed out other characteristics of the Romantic period, including revival of seeing nature as a source of gods
and being sympathetic toward disinherited brothers, such as Cain, Ishmael, or Esau. Frye also mentioned that during the medieval period
the universe was divided into four levels. The highest was the city of God, based on St. Augustine's work. The
second level was the Garden of Eden, which Frye compared to a suburb of the city of God. “The inhabitants
of the Garden of Eden are like any other inhabitants of suburbia,” Frye quipped. “They are concerned only with their
gardens and with the details of their sexual lives.” The other two levels were the level of mundane existence and
that of hell, which was the abode of devils. In connection with the medieval rejection of nature, Frye pointed out
that the devil image with hooves, horns, and a forked tail was the same picture that earlier men had used
for the wood gods, the Satyrs and Pans.

Up n’ Coming

Saturday, April 27
All Day Graduate Record Exam
All Day North Carolina Philosophical Society
3 p.m. Concert — “David, della Rosa and Brooks” — Love Auditorium

Sunday, April 28
4 p.m. Lawn Concert — Wind Ensemble

Monday, April 29
All Day Vote on CRAP Report
3 p.m. Psychology Speaker — Professor Harold McCurdy — Fine Arts Quadrangle, Chambers Lobby
7:30 p.m. Hungry I — “The Dickens” — Morrison Room

Tuesday, April 30
10:20 a.m. Chapel
4:30 p.m. Faculty meeting — Trustee Room
7:30 p.m. Hungry I — “The Dickens” — Morrison Room

Wednesday, May 1
7:30 p.m. Hungry I — “The Dickens” — Morrison Room
8 p.m. Fine Film — Union Lobby

Thursday, May 2
10:20 a.m. Chapel
7:30 p.m. Hungry I — “The Dickens” — Morrison Room
10 p.m. Open End — Love Auditorium

Philosophy Major Plans West Point Education

By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Richard Martin, a husky, soft-spoken senior philosophy major, will enter West Point next year as a freshman. He will embark
on another four years of undergraduate education, beginning with a plebe year, and will follow it with at least five
years of service in the Army. He will pass up an ROTC commission when he receives his degree in June.
In taking ROTC, Martin was impressed with the order and discipline of the Army. An able student of philosophy, he
feels that a military career is not opposed to his intellectual interests.

“I don’t feel that a military career is inconsistent with the spirit of philosophy,” he commented. “Philosophers need discipline. Without
it, they are unable to develop their talent to the fullest. Sure, some people don’t like regimentation, but there are
many times in life when it has a definite purpose.”

Martin does not fit the mold of the typical career military man. Quiet, urbane, and sensitive, he gives the impression
that he has carefully weighed the possibilities that confront him. “The military life is an increasingly important element within the
framework of society, one which tends to affect all of us,” Martin says.

EVER HEAR OF SYNTHETIC LEATHER?

Probably not! Is there such a thing? Well, there are though about 400,000,000 feet walking around the United States wearing
out an incredible amount of shoe leather! We have a great Synthetic Paint, terrifically scuff resistant, that will make a
pair of shoes last until the uppers fall apart! Also, our Kit completely closes up holes in soles that are
worn clear through. Yes, even big garish holes in shoes that you can put your thumb through. Most Dynamic Guys
& Gals can earn $200 to $500 per week selling these Kits. Everybody is a prospect. Drop us a line
and give us your school and home address so we don't put too much competition in your area. Address your
inquiry to: SHOE-MASTER, 200 Haver Rd., Dayton, Ohio 45419. This is New, New, New! No Competition!

The Hub
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

NEW... AFTER SHAVE from $2.50
COLOGNE from $3.00
SWANK Inc., Sole Distributor
As an alternate fragrance try JADE EAST or Jade East CORAL

Summer Schools Study Cultures

By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

Summer study abroad is available for Davidson students through the college's participation in the Summer Cultural Institutes Abroad administered by
Florida Presbyterian College. The nine cultural institutes, running from mid-June through mid-August, combine study and travel. They are designed to
provide understanding of the major cultural areas of the world. These summer institutes are conducted in Britain, the Caribbean, China,
Germany, India, Japan, Latin America, and the Near East. Academic phases of the institutes include a comprehensive course covering the
society and culture of the country in which the institute is located, a seminar and a tutorial under the direction
and assistance of scholars of the host countries. Up to six hours credit will be granted upon satisfactory completion of
the course. Field trips and planned travel routes vary within the area of the particular institute attended in an attempt
to provide in-depth exposure to native peoples and customs. Costs for the institutes range from $698 to $1348. Modest scholarship
assistance is available. Further information and applications are available from Dr. Charles Ratliff, room 222 Chambers Building.

Phone 376-2576
Mooresville

Suits, Blazers, Sportcoats, Slacks by HUNTER HAIG, BOTANY 500
Bermudas, Swim Shorts, Knit Shirts by HAGGAR, JANTZEN, VAN HEUSEN
Shoes and Sandals by BOSTONIAN

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Drive Finds Blood Thin

The Red Cross spring blood drive surpassed last fall’s totals, but wound up with less than the average spring collection
of blood. A total of 290 pints were given during the drive, held last Monday and Tuesday, though spring drives
usually get 300 pints. Taking first place in the fraternity competition was Kappa Alpha, with 53 percent of its members
contributing. Phi Delta Theta placed second, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon was third.
