STUDENT OPINION VARIES
Administration--Is It Hypocritical?
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

Student opinion of the faculty and administration of Davidson runs the gamut from strong disapproval to general satisfaction. But even
the expressions of satisfaction are qualified. Several students interviewed recently felt that the administration was being hypocritical when it said
that it was operating in the students’ interest. They criticized the drinking rules and other faculty and administration regulations as
being anachronistic, unrealistic, and detrimental to the development of the students. But other students did not take such a dim
view of the administration. They agreed that the administration was dragging its feet on some issues, but they did not
attribute it to hypocrisy.

“Rules restrict the student's ability to develop into a whole man,” said one of the critical students, John Barber. “Davidson,
as a liberal arts college, should be concerned with teaching the students how to make intelligent and responsible decisions. However,
regulations such as the drinking rules do not allow them to do so.”

The critical students expressed the hope that under the new student body constitution and the forthcoming regulations from the Committee
on Rules and Punishment (CRAP), the situation would be changed. This group also illustrated the hypocrisy of the administration by
pointing out inconsistencies between the purpose of the college as stated in the general catalogue and the actions taken by
the administration.

“How can the college say it has a Christian commitment when it requires two years of ROTC?” asked Cary Tucker.
Noting the statement that says, “Davidson is dedicated in the quest for truth,” he said, “Davidson, as conceived by the
faculty and administration, is dedicated to producing students with high grade-point averages.”

The statement which drew the most criticism was the one saying, “The selection of students is based upon merit rather
than upon economic status, social standing, or ethnic background.”

“While it might be true that few Negroes apply,” said Bob McKellar, “it is also true that the college does
not actively recruit Negroes and members of other minority groups. As a consequence, they go to Harvard or Yale or
some other school where they are encouraged to come.

“This is inconsistent with Davidson's claim that it is a liberal arts college, for the education of Negroes is of
the greatest importance today. If Davidson wants to be in the forefront of education, then it had best stop dragging
its feet as far as recruiting is concerned.”

(Staff Photos by Olson)

Bert Mason’s Singing Revolution Provides Hungry d Spontaneity
A REVIEW
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Revolution is the theme of all the posters about Burt Mason’s appearance at the Hungry d this week, and it
is revolution that is inherent in Mason's performance. Wednesday night Mason appeared with a close friend, Bruce Farwell. When the
two appear together, Mason's revolution is most evident.

“Bruce and I went through a lot together when we were in the Village (Greenwich Village),” Mason said. He and
Farwell have no barriers between them, despite the fact that Farwell is white and Mason is a Negro. “Bruce is
a beautiful cat, he really is,” Mason said.

Another part of Mason's revolution is his stage presentation. He sings much the same songs in the same manner that
other folk singers do, but in his performance there is a refreshing element of spontaneity other performers lack. “If anyone
comes here to see me and doesn't realize that I'm up there to have fun, I think he’s missing out
on the whole thing,” Mason said.

The Wednesday night show at the Hungry d was divided into three parts. During the first period Mason sang, followed
by a solo period by Farwell and ending in several duets. During the first two parts there was a certain
lack of...

Montgomery Examines Technology
Whenever technology changes, social and cultural patterns must change proportionately, Dr. Robert Montgomery told the student body in assembly Tuesday.
Montgomery, professor emeritus of economics at the University of Texas, pointed out that science and technology have forced cultural upheaval
with the work of Einstein and the Curies.

“Three-fourths of all the books that have ever been written were written in my lifetime,” the gray-haired economist said. “Ninety
percent of all the scientists who ever lived are alive now.”

Montgomery described his specialty as the study of power. He used the relative strengths of the first atomic bomb and
current thermonuclear devices as an example of how potential power has increased in the last 20 years. Current bombs are
25,000 times more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb.

Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, economics professor and a former student of Montgomery’s who introduced him, said that there are some
men who deserve one cheer and some two cheers from mankind, but “Dr. Bob deserves three cheers for trying to
subvert the minds of youth for 60 years.”

Montgomery drew various parallels with his boyhood in rural west Texas. He said that it now takes him less time
to go from Dallas to Los Angeles than it did to get the mail when he was young. Montgomery describes
‘upheaval.’

Cousar, Williams To Chair Courts
Three juniors and a sophomore were elected to posts in the student judiciary this week. Bud Cousar was elected chairman
of the new Court of Appeals while two other juniors, Bill Williams and Tom Baker, were elected chairman and vice-chairman
of the Honor Court. Sophomore Ken Crews was elected Honor Court recorder.

The appeals court met briefly Tuesday night to take the oath of office, elect a chairman and appoint a 3-man
committee to draw up a new trial procedure. The court also decided to continue the present trial procedure until a
new one is drawn up. Sophomores Bob Dunham and Franklin Anderson and junior John Passmore were appointed to the committee
by Cousar. As chairman of the...Court, Cousar will have to sign all authorizations for search of student rooms or vehicles,
except those signed by the dean of students, and administer the oath of office, in addition to his constitutional duties
of heading the court and being president of a constitutional convention. Animation among the rather sparse audience, but by the
end of the performance the audience was wholly with the performers. Singing old spirituals and modern folk rock, cracking obviously
spontaneous puns, the pair received an encore from an audience which wanted still more. Mason is not a glib performer.
Several times during his performance he stopped to search for just the word he wanted, his hands clawing at the
air as though he might pull the word from the air. “Of course I pay attention to the audience,” Mason
said. “I'm here to have fun with the audience, and if they're not responding we both miss out on something.”
“I have fun; that's what the whole thing's about," he added. “Just a person, that’s all I am, just a
person."

Republican Officers Nominated

A slate of five officers was nominated for the Young Republican Club for 1968-69 without opposition Wednesday night, Nominating Committee
Chairman Joe Beard reported. Ben Garrett was nominated for president. Others nominated were Brevard Wallace for vice president, Hunter Dalton
for treasurer, Tom Wheatley for secretary, and Bill Vass for assistant secretary. The candidates will be voted on in April.
These nominations are tantamount to election, Beard said, because any further nomination requires a unanimous vote.

WESTERN AUTO
Western Union Telegrams
PHONE: 692-6581

Several of the more satisfied students, however, pointed to the Blue Sky Curriculum as evidence that the faculty and administration
do care about the students. “I think the apathy of the student body is largely responsible,” said Jim Yandle. “There
is a liberal segment of the faculty that is willing to give the students more freedom and responsibility. There is
a conservative element which feels that the students have enough freedom already. But there is also a group which is
waiting for some demonstration of interest from the student body. I feel that this segment of the faculty would advocate
more changes around here if they saw that the student body was willing and interested in taking on the responsibility
of more freedom.”

“I don't think that the administration or the faculty is trying to suppress the students," said John Riggs. “While they
have been slow in making changes, progress has been made. If anything, you could accuse them of overcautiousness, which I
think comes from a desire to do the right thing. All in all, the administration has moved as fast as
it can; however, it might move faster if the students would show more of an interest in what's going on.”

The Student Council also received some criticism. Jimmy Milholland said, “The council is doing a fine job in doing what
it can do. However, what it can do is not very much.” Students differed again as to the cause of
the council's limited role. Some said that it was because the administration does not want an effective student governing body;
the other group attributed it to the apathy of the student body, claiming that it could do more if the
students really wanted it to.

The Davidsonian
March 15, 1968
Page Three

(Staff Photo by McKellar)

SOME PEOPLE MUST THINK I'M KIND OF BATTY

Miss Copeland displays some of her curious wares.

Unusual Ware To Be Found In Davidson Curiosity Shop

By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

Whether looking for an addition to his room decor or an unusual gift, the Davidson student may find it in
Miss Mary Copeland's Curiosity Shop on Main Street. Miss Copeland has operated “the Jungle,” as Davidson students nicknamed her father’s
general merchandise store, since his death in 1963, and last September she began selling antiques and her own craft work
as well. Her curiosity shop is filled with her restored antiques, antiqued reproductions, and decoupaged bottles, boxes, and wall plaques.
She described the unusual candle holder which a student requested her to make for his girlfriend. “The candle sat on
a roller skate, and I attached two burned out radio tubes and hung orange and black paint can lids from
the holder. It took me forever to make it.”

“I just do whatever comes to me; some people must think I’m kind of batty,” she laughed. She recalled the
time she tried to mix perfume from the contents of old bottles obtained from a pharmacist. “I used a cologne
recipe from the back of a 159-year-old cookbook, but then I added some extra ingredients of my own. This place
smelled awful for a week.” A wigless mannequin salvaged from the dress shop which she once operated now displays a
pair of 19th-century spectacles, a ring on its nose, and a necklace made from beer can pop tops. Miss Copeland
explained that many of the antiques which she sells come from the attic of her family home, which is over
a hundred years old. She collects antiques from other local sources. “I don’t ever ask people for them,” she said.
“They have to ask me.” Among these relics may be found a sign from the Carolina Inn, a Model T
carburetor, photographs of the college campus from over fifty years ago, and Miss Copeland’s personal collection of antique medicine and
liquor bottles.

Cut loose

We'd invite you to check our specs against competition (we'd fare quite nicely, thank you), but that’s too much like
homework. And you've got enough of that. Instead, slip into this low-slung, low-priced youngmobile—and let Cutlass S do the teaching.
In a Cutlass. Cruise it. Corner it. Brake it. Park it. This one handles like it had handles. And the
best part is the Cutlass S price. It’s as streamlined as its styling. Hideaway wipers, louvered hood, side marker lights,
all the new GM safety features—all standard. Today. See your Olds dealer. Tonight. Cut loose in Cutlass. Drive a youngmobile
from Oldsmobile.
