NEW FRESHMEN REGULATIONS | (See Page Eight)

SENATE DRONES ON

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1968

THE OTHER DAVIDSON--Change And Contrast Mark Life

(Staff Photo by Lyle) Free U. President Rich Cowart dozes while Senate debates.

Student Senate Proposes Constitutional Convention

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate formally abolished all freshman regulations and the freshman court and proposed a Constitutional Convention to modify the conflicts between the existing Constitution and the proposed Code of Responsibility in major business at its weekly meeting Tuesday.

The motion to strike sections 3 and 4 of Article 8 dealing with freshman regulations from the by-laws was unanimously proposed last week. However, the Constitution requires a waiting period of one meeting before action may be taken on a Constitutional amendment once it is introduced. The motion carried by a vote of 9-3 with the only opposition coming from sophomores Ed Dobbs and Gary Cash and senior John Passmore. Cash pointed out that a petition of the freshmen showed that 25 percent of that class favored the present system of regulations. However, co-freshman advisor John Gilmour said that only three of the 17 members of the Freshman Council favored the regulations.

SGA President Joe Murphy asked that the Senate call a Constitutional Convention in order to modify the areas of conflict between the Constitution and the code. The SGA must now approve the calling of the convention in an election Monday and Tuesday. At the same time the SGA will elect 29 members to attend the convention—eight from each of the upper classes and five from the freshman class. The Senate selected 7 members to attend the convention: Franklin Anderson, Jim Cooley, Fletcher Hartsell, Peter Hobbie, C. L. Cheshire, Harrison Higgins and Covey Carter.

In calling the convention Murphy pointed out that the present Constitution must be amended to include the changes of the code. This must be done before the SGA can vote on the code itself, possibly next Thursday, the day before the trustees meet.

In other business, the Senate voted unanimously to endorse the faculty-administration proposal concerning the implementation of the drinking rule in the code. The faculty-administration proposal was almost identical to the proposal of the Senate submitted last week—that drinking be allowed in the residence halls, in fraternity houses and at the Union at specified times.

The Senate also approved the request of the Honor Court to appoint Bayard Miller, Frank Spence and Johnny Baker to the Investigation Committee. Miller will serve as chairman of the committee.

By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

There are 152 Negro families living within the limits of the town of Davidson. It would be difficult to characterize them as typical residents of a small college town anywhere in America. They are distinctly a part of the South and a part of Davidson, as much a part of what is called Davidson as the college itself, perhaps more so. Their community is separate and distinct from the community of students, professors and prosperous townspeople. It has been shaped by the coalescence of their individual racial history with the economic, social and political forces at work around them. Most of them have lived here all their lives. They are largely a static population, a hereditary community accustomed to maintaining itself here. They are the residents of The Other Davidson.

Negroes are not the only residents of The Other Davidson, but they are in the majority. Perhaps 20 white families also live in the area west of Main Street that might be defined as The Other Davidson, but they do not share the same feeling of community and group history that the Negro community shares. The Negro community is distinguished from the college community by its lack of economic power, its lack of education and training, and its lack of political power. For all practical purposes it has always been this way.

But conditions have begun to change. The economic position of the Negro community has changed as the result of a relatively recent influx of industry to the Davidson area. Members of the community are now employed by H. K. Porter Co., General Time Corp., Carolox Co., Reeves Bros. Inc. and Mooresville Mills as well as the college. One resident of The Other Davidson assessed the meaning of the economic growth: “Used to be a man worked at the college and brought home $40 a week to his wife and maybe had four or five kids. Now he can work at one of the mills or he gets paid more by the college, and his wife can work too. Together they may make $125 a week.”

Five years ago the Mayor’s Committee on Community Relations was formed to investigate problems between whites and blacks in Davidson. Today the practice of segregation has been curtailed in most of the businesses in the town. Last September a housing project was begun which has led to the construction of 20 new homes so far. But the Negro community is still crowded, and a housing shortage still exists. Many of the old houses have been condemned or will be condemned when they are vacated.

Among the members of the Negro community, there is the idea that conditions can be different. Some are determined to make them different.

Continued Next Week

Faculty Sketches Drinking Picture

Trustee Query

Thus Saith Faculty:

This is the text of the faculty statement on drinking:

Davidson College as an institution expects to operate in strict accordance with both the spirit and letter of the laws of the State of North Carolina with regard to the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages. Additional restrictions on possession and consumption are imposed by the College.

The possession and consumption on campus of beer, ale, and wine (ABC Laws 18-64) by students 18 and over, and of other alcoholic beverages (ABC Law 18-40) by students 21 and over, shall be permitted only within private homes, fraternity houses, residence halls, designated areas of the College Union, and any other area of the campus which the College Administration may designate for a specific occasion. Students and non-students are expected to abide by North Carolina laws and Davidson College regulations.

Mayor’s Committee Given Power By Town Council

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The Davidson Town Council has passed an ordinance giving legal status and power of conciliation to the Mayor's Committee on Human Relations. The Council last week voted unanimously to establish a body to hear and act on

Writ Chides SEC Delays; Irked Murphy Hits Back

By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

Formation of the Student Government Court and distribution of the SGA bylaws and regulations have been ordered by the Court of Appeals. The writ of order, the Court of Appeal's first, was issued to the SGA Senate Executive Committee (SEC) Monday night. The writ set today as the deadline for regulation distribution and next Thursday as the deadline for compliance with the other two orders.

“There are priorities in the things I do,” SGA President Joe Murphy responded, explaining that “I was doing that and I resent someone telling me what to do.”

Court of Appeals Chairman Bud Cousar said the action was taken under the constitutional authority of the court “to issue such writs as may

Election Schedule

The following schedule of Senate and Residence Hall Council (RHC) elections has been announced by Frank Murphy, Elections Board chairman. Polls will be open from 7:50 a.m. to 2:40 p.m. in the lobby of Chambers on the day specified, and runoffs will be held on succeeding class days. Senators are to be inaugurated upon election. All those wishing to run must file with Murphy in Duke 138 before midnight ofthe date listed. 

OFFICE & RHC (Except Cannon & East)
* Freshman Class Senators
* Cannon & East Senators and RHC members
* Residence Hall Senators

FILING DEADLINE
Oct. 16
Oct. 23
Oct. 23

ELECTION DATE
Oct. 28
Oct. 30
Oct. 30

"It may be necessary to uphold this constitution."

"It's fine to have a constitution, but when it starts getting in the way..." Murphy said. He added that he thought "the constitution needs guidelines, not fences."

Recent freshman water raids necessitated the writ, according to Cousar. "Fun’s fun, but when you start ruining property," he said, "the limit has been passed." He referred to extensive damage done to students' property on the first and second floors of Belk during a raid last Saturday night.

"The freshmen can just put their beanies back on if they're going to act like children," Murphy said of the disturbances on Saturday night and Sept. 25. "If they (freshmen) don’t accept responsibility, they're going to be punished."

Also included in the writ of order was an instruction to the Senate Executive Committee to appoint another member to the Court of Appeals to fill a vacancy created by the graduation of Bruce Weile. The SGA constitution also grants the Court of Appeals authority to cite students for contempt of court in order to enforce its writs.

Complaints of discrimination in Davidson. The Committee shall be empowered to anticipate, consider, and deal with social problems within the community, including but not limited to open housing, fair employment, and public accommodations," the ordinance says. The ordinance does not give the Committee on Community Relations any specific powers to deal with the problems of the community except to hear grievances.

The work of the committee was brought into the spotlight last spring in connection with the student boycott of Johnson's Barbershop. The Committee may recommend to the Town Council "legislation or other actions to eliminate or reduce discrimination with respect to race, color, religion, or national origin."

A Mayor's Committee on Community Relations was appointed as an informal advisory group without legal status by Mayor F. L. Jackson five years ago. Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, chairman of the mayor's committee, said, "What we wanted was official recognition and endorsement by the Town Council, representing the people of Davidson, of our efforts toward the elimination of discrimination in this community."

"This ordinance gives the Community Relations Committee new prestige and official sanction to expand what it has been doing unofficially to improve community relations," Rhodes said. "Of course the committee now has legal recourse to the authority of the Town Council and to the courts if necessary."

Rhodes expressed confidence that legal measures would not be needed except to lend the committee greater bargaining power. The committee consists of 15 members. At present, there are two faculty members and five Negroes. Jesse Sims and Mike Maloy are the student representatives, with Robert Pyeatt as alternate.

Mike Norris, one of the leaders of the barbershop boycott, expressed disappointment that the ordinance does not include specific prohibitions of discriminatory practices. "It doesn't state that discrimination is illegal; indeed it is only implied. The town apparently has taken no new stand on discrimination other than to make attempts at conciliation."

Sims, however, expressed optimism that the ordinance would greatly improve conditions in the community. "It looks as if everybody with a gripe is going to be heard now," he said.

Spurs Statement
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

A statement outlining initial drinking privileges under the proposed Code of Responsibility was approved by the faculty Tuesday. The statement, which also represents the position of the Administration and closely resembles that adopted by the SGA Senate last week, would permit drinking "only within private homes, fraternity houses, residence halls, designated areas of the College Union, and any other area of the campus which the college administration may designate for a specific occasion."

The faculty's action came in response to a request by the trustees for an illustration of how the drinking section of the code might be implemented. The board, which has already delayed on the code twice, is expected to render a final verdict at its meeting here next weekend.

The statement represents "the initial method which would be used to allow drinking on campus only if the trustees approve the code," Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston said. Otherwise, he said, the statement will be "null and void."

The statement was drawn up by several groups, including the faculty Student Life Committee and the faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life. It was initially approved by the executive committee of the faculty and SGA President Joe Murphy before being presented to the faculty.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. emphasized that the trustees will be faced with the sole question of whether to approve the code, not of whether to approve the statement also. "Their job is to set the general policy," Burts said, "and leave the specific details of when and how to the administration, faculty, and students. If it turns out that this is not the best plan," he said, "then we would not have to wait six months for a trustees’ meeting to make a change."

The traditional policy of the college has always banned being under the influence of alcohol, drinking, and possessing alcohol on the Davidson campus. The campus is defined as the town limits of Davidson and the Lake Campus. Students voted out their own ban on drinking in 1965 by a vote of 301-150, one vote over the two-thirds margin required.

Action, Please is designed to cut red tape and end the run-around in administrative channels, whether the channels are those of the college administration, student government, faculty committees, or the Town of Davidson. "Why nots?", injustices, questions, and suggestions are all welcome, and whether the answer is printed or not, the queries will be followed up by THE DAVIDSONIAN. The column will run every other week.

* * *

Since we don’t have Saturday classes any longer, why do we have the same curfew rules at fraternity houses? The rule now requires girls to be out of the houses by midnight all nights but Saturday. Girls must leave the houses by 1:30 a.m. Saturday night (Sunday morning). — Steve Page

"Because there’s not been any general review of the specific regulations," said Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. However, he said the rule probably would be revised "pending whatever review does come from the Code of Responsibility."

* * *

Exactly how many chapel cuts will we get each term? And, now that we have the one-fourth cut rule, if the college announces that we have four cuts, and five speakers later cancel out, do we then get only three cuts? — Robert Pyeatt

Students will get four cuts the first term, according to Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, who said there are 18 scheduled assemblies the first term. Cancellations after the term begins do not affect the announced number of cuts, he said.

* * *

Why isn’t there any student court appointed to deal with water fights, missing fire extinguishers, and damage to campus or student property? Do we have responsible students if they can’t appoint a court and enforce their regulations? — Richard C. Burts Jr.

The Court of Appeals Monday ordered the Senate Executive Committee to nominate members of the Student Government Court, which handles these offenses, by Oct. 10, as a result of Burts’ statement. However, SGA President Joe Murphy plans to ask for reconsideration of the writ, since he says the Student Government Court would be superseded by provisions of the Code of Responsibility, which he expects to be adopted by the Board of Trustees next Friday.

* * *

Why wasn’t the student store, and along with it the pool tables, open last Saturday afternoon and night? Both were open Saturday nights last year. — Dick Anderson

Peter Nicholls, director of the student store, said Wednesday that lack of labor was the reason. "The next one to ask, send him down to work." He said that the pool tables were open from 7:30 to 11 p.m. last Saturday, but that only four or five students used them. Nicholls attributed the absence of students willing to work Saturday nights to the large number leaving for the weekend, now that Saturday classes have ended.