Page Six

This house, across from the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Concord Road, was originally built to house the North Carolina
Medical College. Constructed in 1901, it served that college until 1907, when the school moved into Charlotte.

Two Incumbents Elected For Nine Senate Seats

Nine members were elected this week to the new student Senate and nine others were elected cheerleaders. Elected to the
Senate were rising seniors Frank Murphy, John Passmore, and Covey Carter, rising juniors Dan Herd, C. L. Cheshire, and Richard
Howard, and rising sophomores Ed Dobbs, Rich Cowart, and Gary Cash. Murphy and Carter served on this year’s Student Council.
This is the first time that each class will have equal representation in the student government. Also under the new
Student Government Association constitution, three Senators will be elected early next fall from the new freshman class.

Elected cheerleaders were rising seniors Johnny Durkatt, John Gilmore, and Ken Willis, rising juniors John Ferguson, John Shett, and Ben
Always, and rising sophomores Charlie Brown, Pat Reed, and Jack Trother.

Boycott (Continued From Page One)

...obtained the permits. The permit—which stipulates that matches must be limited to 19 at any time and must be at
least 13 feet apart—was prepared by the town in 1967, Mayor Jackson said. "The permit is just a simple statement
of how I permit matches to be conducted," he said. "They cannot block the sidewalk; that's why we took action.
If they strike it up, every store owner will be acting up. It’s not fair to the merchants. If there
is a disturbance, it would be dangerous to the town. If there is, then you have to move in."

The other demonstrators, Barker and Hook Norton, and Bob Jones, a policy similar to Johnson's. Mayor's leaders indicated this week
that the picketing would probably not be extended to Norton's. Most of the student body patronizes Johnson's shop, Mike Norris
said, and therefore a boycott would hurt him economically. "But it may not be in our capabilities to hurt Mr.
Norton economically." Johnson also declined comment when asked if he intended to change his policy in the face of the
protest. "I've been operating here for 40 years, I have a big stake here but those boys have nothing to
lose. I don't see why they don't go to Vietnam if they want to enlist in a cause."

"It doesn't make any difference to me who I wait on," he said. "I've got to do what my business
demands."

LES BROWN, Negro picketer

The North Carolinian

OLD NORTH CAROLINA MEDICAL COLLEGE

Dr. John Peter Monroe ran the college and doubled as Davidson's physician at the time. A grant from Presbyterian women
in Charlotte in 1866 for an infirmary started the college. (Staff Photo by Weems)

IFC HEAD STRESSES VALUES

Vagt Explains Intangibles

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Bobby Vagt, new president of the Interfraternity Council, feels that the intangible values to be gained from fraternity life should
be stressed. "Fraternities get sold short very often. People are quick to criticize that the fraternities are merely social organizations,"
Vagt said. He seems genuinely concerned with helping the fraternities avoid being strictly social. Both his own Pikas and the
IFC are soon to go on retreats designed at least in part to allow a re-evaluation of the fraternity’s role
in Davidson life. Vagt believes that there are two spheres of fraternity activity that are as important as the social
sphere: these are the community service and the varied companionship available in the houses.

"People say that joining a particular fraternity on this campus limits your circle of friends. I don't feel that it
has to at all, particularly since the fraternities have begun partying together," Vagt said. "Also, each fraternity is made up
of a variety of people with different backgrounds and interests."

"The background of fraternity life lets you get to know different types of people a lot better than you might
otherwise get to know them, since you're constantly associating with them," Vagt continued. "You get to appreciate other people's points
of view." Vagt also mentioned various community services which the fraternities had performed. Each fraternity sponsors a Richardson Scholar each
year, contributing free board and inviting the student to participate in fraternity activities.

Greek Week Closes

Pledge training at Davidson culminates in Greek Week, with activities varying from barrel rolls across the country to Hattie's to
sponsoring an Easter egg hunt for 160 Davidson children. All fraternities participate in the Thursday night pledge banquet and the
Friday field day, which climaxes with a boat regatta on Lake Norman. Scavenger hunts are traditional, and this year have
included as objects a live chicken, a water-tower rung, counting, a fruit juice glass full of toenails, an old garden
hat belonging to campus security officer B. N. Linker, and glowworm larvae. However, pledge activities also include public service projects.
Pi Kappa Alpha sponsored a field day for 160 children, and Kappa Alpha pledges are collecting clothes for the family
of a Negro war veteran whose house burned in February.

Brigham: New Deferment Policies Will Not Affect Davidson Students

By EDWARD HAY
Staff Writer

The Army's new policy concerning deferments from the draft for graduate school...to advanced ROTC students is a change in procedure
which should have little effect on Davidson students, according to Captain F. C. Brigham of the ROTC Department. The new
policy, called the quota system, means that students taking the advanced ROTC program will not receive automatic deferments upon acceptance
at a graduate school. Instead, they will be required to take the Graduate Record Exam, which is to be submitted
to the Army. The students will be deferred on the basis of their field and the score on the exam.
Deferments are given by the Army to students only in those fields which the Army feels will be useful to
it. Students applying for a deferment will take the GRE in the last part of their junior year. Each applicant
will be responsible for arranging to take the test on his own. The test results, which are required by many
graduate schools for admittance anyway, will be sent to the Army along with a recommendation by the commanding officer of
the ROTC Department for consideration.

Year’s Registration Set

Registration for all three terms of next year will begin in two or three weeks, according to Registrar J. H.
Ostwalt. The registrar explained that registration would be early in order for students to get acquainted with the new system
of courses and terms, and to allow ample time for changes and working out of conflicts. Ostwalt emphasized that students
caught in difficulty by the changeover would be allowed to alter their graduation requirements, with the consent of their major
department and the appropriate faculty committee. All existing juniors and seniors will remain under the old graduation requirements with respect
to major requirements and basic course requirements, according to the phasing approved in the Blue Sky Report. However, rising sophomores
will be under the new area and major requirements, although they will not be required to pass area exams. Next
year’s freshman class will be the first to take the area exams. Ostwalt noted the lessened number of courses required
to graduate now—32 instead of 41—and said that the difference would be made up by intensifying each course. Thus, the
language requirement is now two years instead of three. All rising juniors and seniors will be required to complete one
additional course in a language if they have completed either the 21 or 31 level, but rising sophomores are only
required to complete the second-year level.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
J. T. COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYBATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN BOLINGER

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editor:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

Photography Editor:
BILL OLSON

Photographers:
JOE PRIEBELF
BOB McKELLAR
DAVID WHEMS

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
CULLUM ROGERS
DICK POOLE

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week:
Bill Fine, Allen Lewis, Ed Shoaf, Denny Coltrane, Danny White, Paul Rowland, Bub Travers, Hugh Marr, Bob Krehbel, Ed Hay,
Jule Young, Norwood Foland, Bill Berry, Don Hoyt, David Cook, Luther Moore, Lewis Lavine, Sterling Abernathy, and Don Sewell.

Subscription rate: $3.50 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 370, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

OPEN HOUSE ISN'T SEXY. It isn't even against faculty rules. But it's a good way to spend a Sunday evening.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Wanted College Men, Students for coastal Boys’ Camp, June 11 - August 17. Activity needs: Sailing, Motorboating, Water Safety Instructors.
Excellent character references required. Good salary according to age, experience, and college classification. Room and board furnished. Quick answer upon
receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor or Donald M. Cheek, Camp Sea Gull, Post Office Box 10976, Raleigh, North
Carolina 27605.

EASTER CANDIES
RUSSELL STOVER
OVER 25 CHOICES
PARKS REXALL DRUGS

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Percent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
375-9728
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202
PHONE 692-2171

Vagt said that the Pikes had taken several children from a legal orphanage to Davidson basketball games this season, and
they had also had three parties for the children. He also mentioned SAR’s “Blow-Up 68” program, which brings speakers to
the campus, and sponsorship of a poverty-stricken child in Appalachia. “I think the Davidson fraternity system is kind of unique,”
Vagt said. “For one thing, we almost never use the individual blackball system any more. Only if there are three
or four guys who don’t like a rushee and can’t be dissuaded does the rushee get blackballed.” “The fraternities have
molded themselves to fit the Davidson situation,” Vagt added. He admitted that some pledge activities had had harmful effects, but
he said that they were useful in building morale among both the pledges and the brothers.

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open this Sunday at 8:
Gable 777 Virginia Ave.
Johnson 434 Concord Woods.
552 Lorimer

BOBBY VAGT - IFC President

IFC Plans To Review Its Policies

The IFC handled routine business in a short meeting Tuesday night. The first matter on the agenda was the finalization
of plans for an IFC retreat. The retreat will give the IFC an opportunity to reassess its policies this year
and to discuss plans for next year. The influence of a new curriculum and a new president will be discussed
in the reassessment. It is to be held in Montreal, Saturday afternoon and Sunday. IFC President Bobby Vagt announced that
a meeting with the extended rushees will be held before the next IFC meeting to determine the wishes of the
rushees.

AFTER SHAVE from $2.50
COLOGNE from $3.00
SWANK Inc.—Sole Distributor

As an alternate fragrance, try JADE EAST or Jade East CORAL

The MOCK TURTLE Knit Shirt is strong in solids and stripes! See our JADE EAST? LMA GOLDEN and the new
selections for the pace-setting traditionalist—in cottons, dacron & cotton, and banlon. Folin Mock & Son
Our 56th Year — Mooresville
