Che Bavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1968

Old Chambers’ Ghost

You'd never get a God-fearing Presbyterian to admit it, of course, but there is a story, whispered when told at all, that old Maxwell Chambers wasn't opposed to taking a drink every now and then. Chambers, of course, is the man who gave the college a cool quarter of a million back in the 1850's. Those were lean years for Davidson, and the Mecklenburg Presbyterians weren't about to trouble their consciences over Chambers’ little sins. The devil had had the money long enough, they reasoned sweetly; now it was time for the Lord to have it.

Not surprisingly, Chambers’ money made Davidson the richest college south of Princeton, and his generosity was rewarded by naming the main campus building after him. Even when that building, affectionately dubbed Old Chambers, burned to the ground in 1921, the college was so appreciative it promptly built another one in its place.

Well, old Mr. Chambers is long departed and presumed with Saint Peter now, but according to local folklore, he still comes back occasionally to check up on us. Whenever the rains subside and the grass in front of the present Chambers Building dies, you can see where the majestic columns of Old Chambers were anchored. That, the story says, is evidence of the ghost of Maxwell Chambers returned.

Now we're not about to endorse a ghost story, of course, but next time you're in front of Chambers, take a gander at the front lawn. So dry is it that not only are the old column holes visible, but also the outline of the entire building. Old Max's ghost is back for sure. Could it be that he thinks the campus has been dry long enough?

Wanted: Helping Hands

Twenty boys need your help. Boys, ages 11-15, all members of Boy Scout Troop 75, which received its charter this week at a ceremony at Davidson United Methodist Church. So if you have some special scout-type skills, or even only a willingness to help out....

Specifically, students can help by acting as leaders on weekend hikes. Scoutmaster James Raeford, who works during part of the weekend, says he can’t take off from work. And assistant scoutmaster Lyn Montague, Davidson senior, says that students who have special scouting skills can help out as counselors by giving a demonstration. The troop meets weekly on Tuesday nights at 6:30 at the Community Center on Griffith Street. Now that the troop is on a firmer footing, it needs some more helping hands. Yours, maybe?

The Library, Again

Where to put the new library? For nearly two years now that’s been a burning question, and the trustees are still looking for an answer. They have sought the opinion of just about everybody—their own Buildings and Grounds Committee, the Library Planning Committee, faculty members, and an assortment of architects and so-called experts. But one group they seem to have overlooked is the group having the biggest stake in the matter: the student body.

We are not going to attempt to speak for the student body as a whole, of course, but we would call to the board’s attention some oft-ignored statistics. In a poll of the student body two springs ago, over 80 percent of the some 600 students returning questionnaires—507 to be exact—favored a site across Concord Road. Only 47 voted for a Lingle Manor site—where the trustee committee wants it—and even fewer would put it in front of Little Dorm, which the planning committee reportedly favors.

The Concord Road site has a number of factors in its favor. It is only 30 steps beyond the present library. It would round off nicely a quadrangle with Chambers, Martin, Science Building and the present library. It wouldn't clutter up the campus. And its behind—which is bound to be ugly—wouldn't be bared for public view.

The argument most often offered against the site—the danger involved in crossing Concord to get to the building—simply won't wash. Virtually everyone on campus manages to get safely across State 115 at least once a day to get to the post office, and 115 has a lot more traffic than Concord Road.

As far as we're concerned, in fact, only one argument carries any weight against the Concord site—and that is the possibility of a coordinate girls’ campus to the north sometime in the future. If the college’s future-planners are serious about a girls’ campus and therefore want to place the library so that it would be in between the two campuses, we hereby retract all our arguments. Get us some girls, and we'd be willing to have the library in Mt. Mourne.

Gruesome Twosome

Pat Taylor, who’s running for lieutenant governor in North Carolina, isn’t exactly what you’d call a typical politician. In a crowd, he looks uneasy. When he talks, it's in a soft, almost apologetic manner. And when he smiles, his face breaks into a big sheepish grin.

But even if Pat Taylor is no typical politician, he can see clear through the men who are. Last week, for example, he was speaking to a group in Fayetteville, and on the matter of “law and order,” a trite campaign phrase if there ever was one, and the politicians who exploit it, he said this:

“I've never raised this issue in this campaign because I've never met a person who opposes it. Everyone agrees we should have law and order. But some would have you believe that they will work some kind of miracle and everyone will obey the law, or that they would overturn the Supreme Court and the Constitution and the President and everybody else and leave the enforcement of law and the administration of justice to some kind of supreme police force, when in the first place they couldn't do it and in the second place, they really wouldn’t do it if they could.”

The newspaper account didn't say, but it’s likely that Taylor was thinking of candidates like George Wallace, Spiro T. Agnew (who?) and North Carolina’s own Jim Gardner. To that list of “fear preachers”—men who worship the police, right or wrong, or have implied they would have looters shot, or both—we would add the name of Taylor’s Democratic running-mate, Bob Scott.

From Scott and Gardner in particular we are tired of hearing about law and order. They’ve been harping on it for months now, to the delight of Tar Heel right-wingers and to the neglect of the real issues. What Taylor said in addition applies equally well to both: “There are those who take the serious issues which confront us and turn them into superficial issues, with which they appeal not to your reason, your common sense, but to your anger and reaction.”

What a pitiful pair of typical politicians we have to choose between this November.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Whitfield Urges Rationality; Mixer Dates Are Unrewarding

To The Editor:

Another year is upon us, and it would appear, once again, that blind adherence to holy tradition has safely ensconced myriad follies within a panoply of ridiculously tolerant administrative leniency. The infamous Davidson Gentlemen have been in residence only a week, and already Belk’s first floor disgracefully bears the ravages of the annual water riot.

The CRAP proposals which some of our numbers have worked so hard to officially establish as the new essence of the Davidson behavior code, will require, if they are to be effective, that we as responsible students first of all abolish the several follies such as the annual water riot and the orgiastic train-bombarding insobriety which has annually typified the Thursday before Spring Frolics (Dave's Night); and secondly that we take upon ourselves the responsibility of initiating strong disciplinary action against those of us who would abuse the freedoms granted us by the CRAP proposals.

We must accept not only the new liberties to be given us, however, but must accept also the responsibilities which accompany new freedom, and must give genuinely serious consideration to the manner in which we will deal with those among us who would only exploit our new freedoms. Should we not do this, then we deserve no better than the antiquated, unenlightened policies which have formed the basis for student government at Davidson in the past.

Henry A. Whitfield III, ‘69
Davidson College

To The Editor:

Though I do not claim to speak for a majority of my classmates, I think a great many freshmen would agree that the present system pertaining to the weekend mixers is badly in need of reappraisal and subsequent revision in order for it to be a success. Though there are some good matches made at these mixers, this year’s episodes have, in the opinion of this writer, demonstrated the comparative scarcity of such satisfaction.

In most cases the com-

‘But, Joe, I Thought You Said He Was Housebroken’

Reid Unfair, Bridges Hits

To The Editor:

“The dull distinguish only races or nations,” said Thoreau, “but the wise man, individuals.” When Thoreau wrote the above, he was about the same age as Mr. Bob Reid. Mr. Reid, however, is still busily distinguishing races and nations, and, in the Sept. 30 edition of The Charlotte Observer, he made some comments on the present freshman class of Davidson College.

On the basis of a few interviews and his own keen insight, Reid has handily classified the new freshmen as a milky group of affluent Southerners, carefully and thoroughly indoctrinated with the beliefs of their parents, beliefs which they clutch like security blankets while happily pursuing selfish, personal interests. Last but not least, Reid accuses the freshmen of being so callous as to be at Davidson for the prime purpose of studying.

Such accusations as Reid has made are unfair and irresponsible.They rank on a par with such pithy bits of superficial reasoning as “Negroes are inferior to whites.” Specious reasoning often makes good enough copy to be printed in The Charlotte Observer, but should not be respected by anyone interested in truth or fairness. The Class of 1972 has been at Davidson for a little more than two weeks. Quite frankly, this class cannot have any judgments passed upon it one way or the other. Whether intended as a barb against Davidson admission policies, or any other underlying purpose, Reid's article is indefensible and unfair to the freshman class. Davidson, I believe, is one place where militant student activity is unnecessary. But if the faculty of Davidson College were to treat the freshman class as summarily and arbitrarily as did Mr. Reid in his article, I am sure that the freshmen would make their dissatisfaction known by actions that would be very inconsistent with Mr. Reid's evaluation of the Class of '72. Fortunately, in the case of the administration of Davidson College, it appears that with age comes some wisdom and understanding of the individual, so there may be hope yet for Bob Reid.

Bill Lineaweaver, '72
Davidson College

* * *

To The Editor:

The editorial page of last week's DAVIDSONIAN featured a letter of concern from Dr. Charles G. Hamilton over the student body's response to the CRAP Report. I cannot help reacting negatively to Hamilton's letter. Hamilton drives home the point that Davidson is a “church college.” He implies that such a status means that the college should decide for its students what is right and wrong, and should “hold their hands” for four years, compelling these students to act accordingly. He also claims that the use of alcohol makes men “less human.” But is he not forgetting that to impose a four-year period of unreality upon the students would be to make them less human? Hamilton exploits the fact that students here take Bible courses and should know better than to partake of alcoholic beverages. Well, I happen to be majoring in Bible, but I cannot agree with Hamilton. Although I do not personally advocate the use of alcohol, nevertheless I realize that drinking is a part of the real world. Perhaps Hamilton’s Mississippi is a little less real than Davidson College, but if so, perhaps he too is “less human.” I feel that a liberal arts college should teach its students about life in the real world. Any type of imposed reality is detrimental to the students who will later be a part of the real world. Hamilton warns of falling “into the hands of the living God.” I would frankly be more concerned about God's wrath if I were causing students to live in an atmosphere that was anything short of realistic. It is truly disturbing to me that a member of my chosen profession is so unrealistic in his approach to this issue.

T. Randall Bridges, '69
Davidson College

* * *

Stelzer Wants Snack Bar

To The Editor:

I have longed to make my voice heard, and being unqualified to speak on any issue which requires profound insight, I have resorted to something which I feel reasonably sure is within my intellectual grasp. My purpose is to deplore the demise of the student snack bar. For a college of this size not to have a snack bar is inexcusable. Machines are okay but they certainly come in second best compared to the advantages of a snack bar. First, there are many items which machines cannot sell, such as milkshakes, ice cream cones, doughnuts, and fresh food. Also, the atmosphere created by a snack bar is more appealing to the student. The present situation is unattractive and reduces the student interest and use of the College Union. It is true that there have been difficulties running the snack bar in the past, but I feel certain that the student body would prefer an improvement of old methods rather than a wholesale switch to automation. One worthwhile reform might be to let the new snack bar be student-operated. There surely is no labor shortage with so many students needing jobs to keep scholarships. I sincerely hope something is done to correct the present situation. The opportunity to buy a milkshake is a basic right of an American college student.

Ron Stelzer, '71
Davidson College

* * *

Freshman Protests; Minister’s Unreality

Computer dates are unsatisfactory, unrewarding, and spoil what could be a pleasant evening. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, the questionnaire on which the computer cards and matches are based is unrealistic when used with a computer. Second, the questionnaire could be better planned to be more indicative of specific peculiarities or tastes. With all the psychology and sociology majors and professors on campus, surely it would not be too arduous a task to produce an insightful and meaningful questionnaire. Many persons familiar with the nature of computers would agree that the existing questionnaire is inadequate with regard to its intended use. Third, the whole idea of questionnaires is rather misconceived. It can be safely said that, with the exception of Davidson honor and chivalry where nice personalities and poor appearance are concerned, most men are attracted primarily by a pretty face and tend to regard personality later. Since a questionnaire cannot accurately be indicative of appearance, it is outmoded and useless. As a solution to this problem, may I suggest that we do away with this futile matchmaking and merely arrange a meeting between a classful of men and a classful of women, en masse. This arrangement would enable students to establish their own matches (which is as it should be), and many unpleasant instances of having been deserted or finding that one’s computer date has made other arrangements, as well as the accompanying despondency, could be minimized. In order for this to work effectively, a problem which is rampant under the present system would have to be eliminated altogether: the problem of upperclassmen. It would seem that a freshman mixer should provide an opportunity for freshmen to get to know some women at a time when they as yet have no contacts in their new situation. The upperclassmen have been around longer and have had, or will get, their chance; they are older and probably more experienced in the art of capturing women; many have cars and fraternity houses and contacts in women’s colleges which facilitate their dating.

Allen Lundy, '72
Davidson College

* * *

Where Is The Prophet?

By DAVID SWEATT
Managing Editor

“Hey, Jude, don’t make it bad. Take a sad song and make it better,” urges The Beatles’ latest hit. The Letter of Jude in the New Testament warns the first-century congregation to whom it is addressed that false teachers have made their way into the church and must be rejected in favor of the truth of God if the people are to be saved. The destination of the letter remains a mystery and the name Jude, that of Jesus’ brother, may be only a pseudonym. But Jude, whoever he was, warned the people against the false prophets of the age. Today’s congregation of the American people appears to be searching for its own Jude. Indeed many have presented themselves and many have won large segments of the congregation over to them. But overall the group is split—no man or idea or symbol has won recognition as “the Word” for the burgeoning, bustling American congregation, despite that congregation’s deep yearning for the Jude-like doxology of peace and happiness. “We have found material wealth, and government programs, far beyond our dreams of a few years ago, yet perhaps we count the wrong things—for the new wealth and activity seem to destroy as many pleasures as they bring us...” wrote one young, hopeful Jude in his search for “a newer world.” But that young Jude figure, presidential aspirant Robert F. Kennedy, was struck down before the congregation heard out his full prophecy. They could only perch hesitantly, blank and silent, while another long, black train passed into the darkness. Davidson students showed strong support for presidential hopeful Eugene McCarthy last spring, along with thousands of other college students across the country who saw in the Minnesota senator a stab at the established political process. They lost. Will they go back to the streets? Some have said no: “What you saw this year was the dying gasp of a bunch of bosses, hacks and bums. Four years from now we'll be running that party,” asserted one youthful McCarthy assistant following the rejection of the Vietnam “peace plank” and the defeat of Senator McCarthy for the presidential nomination at the Democratic convention. Others feel the political spectrum is not wide enough for them. And while the old men bemoan “the Communist influence” they miss the significance of, or refuse to recognize, an indigenous anarchist movement bred in America by Americans. Non-electoral institutions would foster “creative disorder,” according to these spokesmen of a new American politics of non-politics. “Grassroots” groups would control the nation’s political and social life. “The System” has failed, they say: almost anything—even nothing—would be better in its place. In the meantime Al America and his wife sit before the tube waiting for the election, just waiting. It appears that nothing can happen, nothing can change, until a new man ascends the national mass media throne. They are frustrated yet mesmerized by the months that the United States must continue to “strengthen its position” in Vietnam with more American blood while the bickering political game plays itself out in pettiness and promises. On the screen the political speaker offers solutions to all the problems. Others see no problems. Others have begun to question if indeed the problems are solvable at all. Hey, Jude.