BENCH ROCKY CROSSWHITE

The Story Of The Skin Team

For those of you who have no idea as to who, or what, the skin team is, don’t feel bad. Neither does Lefty. A definition would be hard to find, but generally it is the group left on the sidelines after Lefty names the starting five and the first two or three substitutes. This year’s skin team is a motley crew. It consists of Bob Pickens, Tony Orsbon, Mike Spann, Tom Youngdale, Jan Postma, and yours truly. We are all full skins. Definitely, there are degrees to which players develop skin characteristics during the season, and the individuals change in direct relationship to the whims and feelings of Lefty. Presently we have one half-skin (Fox Demoisey), and two half-shirts (Rod Knowles and Mike O’Neill). Of course, the full-shirts are the starters.

The name “skin team” was widely used last year, although I am sure the term has been around for many years in the Davidson College basketball tradition. Before a scrimmage or practice Lefty would name those who were to start and then say, “OK, all you others, take off your shirts and be skins.” This year Lefty bought reversible red and black practice jerseys hoping that the blacks might replace the skins, but the word skin team has stuck. Possibly the reason the black shirts failed to win our approval can be found in Bob Pickens’ comment on why he didn’t want to wear the jersey: “I don’t feel right playing with a shirt on. I feel cramped.” Maybe this is the reason why we, the skins, don’t do as well as the shirts in the games. We have to wear the shirts to our game uniforms.

There is a basic unity among the skins because we are conscious of our position and social status. The only way the kids who want autographs for their programs know that we are on the team is that we wear the same red blazers and checked pants that the shirts wear. Even so, I remember one game a little girl came up to me, clutching a program with the signatures of most of the Davidson players, and asked me if I was on the team! Oh well.

Certainly, by playing together for a long time the individuals of a team come to know each other’s moves and what to expect. There is no exception among the members of the skin team. All of us know that if any one of us gets a chance at any kind of shot, we take it. If you ever wondered why the skins press in the last two or three minutes of a game (that is the only time we get to play when Davidson is way ahead) the reason is that we want to get the ball as quickly as possible so that one of us can shoot. The strategy usually works one way or the other. If the press fails, the opponents score easily and we get the ball anyway.

Identification of a skin is not difficult. Along with the coyote in Roadrunner cartoons, Charlie Brown of “Peanuts,” and the independents of IMAC basketball, the skins are under the cruel hand of fate. To be a skin takes a combination of patience, lack of motivation, and a desire to be second best, or so it seems. We even threw away our “We try harder” buttons because they seemed pointless. Incidentally, most of the skins, with the exception of Spann, have hairy chests. I’m sure Dr. Puckett could explain this common characteristic as an acquired evolutionary development that has occurred due to the absence of wearing shirts which provided warmth before. (Spann has some internal heating process. He thinks about girls all the time.)

In writing about skins and the history of the skin team, Mike Dickens’ name must be mentioned. He was one of the original skins last year before he quit the Davidson basketball team to join the subversive group, the Drop Cats, an industrial league team comprised of many former skins. Members of this team, including Cecil Clifton, Pinky Hatcher, and John Baker, were all good skins. George Leight, also a member of the Drop Cats, was a skin at heart, even if he was a half shirt when he played. Plans for a Drop Cat vs. Skin exhibition game are being made at the present time.

In the St. Johns game a dubious honor was awarded to two members of the skin team. Spann and I were sent into the game with one second, the last second, left. When you think about it, it was a difficult thing for Lefty to do. Well anyway, whether you call us skins, subs, fill-ins, black-shirts, one-second-men, back-row-boys, AYO’s, (all you others) or anything else, we occupy those last six or seven seats on the bench. At least we have better seats than the fans.

Cindermen Get Ready For Season

Practice began Monday for Davidson's track team. The indoor team will run in two meets before the outdoor season begins on March 16. The Wildcats will participate in the Big Seven indoor meet in Chapel Hill, Feb. 23-24. They will be running against teams from Duke, UNC, Wake Forest, NC State, East Carolina, and North Carolina College of Durham. Then Davidson will travel to Lexington, Virginia, to run in the Southern Conference indoor meet. The opening outdoor meet will be a home dual meet with Pembroke College.

“We should have a very strong team this season,” Track Coach Heath Whittle said. Strength will be added by freshman members of the team, eligible for varsity competition for the first time this season. Because freshmen will be running with the varsity there will be no schedule of freshman meets. Whittle said that anyone interested in any aspect of track is welcome to join the team. He stressed the fact that the track team is never cut. “We welcome any students who want to come out, whether or not they have previous track experience,” he added.

(Staff Photos by Weems)

MALOY, MOSER PUT PRESSURE ON

Backcourt defense chokes Deacs.

Freshmen’s Winning Ways Result From Hard Work

Davidson's freshman basketball team, now halfway through its season, has fashioned itself into a strong, winning ball club. The Kittens have amassed a 7-2 record, including an impressive upset win over a powerful Duke team. Freshman coach Jerry Conboy said that he is very pleased with the progress of the team over the season. “The team has worked very hard, and I think that they have come a long way,” he said. The workhorses for the Wildkittens this season have been Steve Snipes and Steve Kirley. Kirley is the leading scorer.

‘Cat Nine To Begin Workouts

Coach Tom Stevens announced that the baseball team will begin its spring practice next week. He said that an important meeting for anyone interested in playing baseball will be held at 7 p.m., Tuesday, Feb. 6. “Any freshmen who were involved in fall sports, missing fall baseball practice, and who want to play baseball should attend this meeting,” Stevens said. But the meeting Tuesday is for both freshman and upper-class ball players. Baseball is another sport in which freshmen will be permitted to play in varsity competition. There will be no schedule of freshman games.

Tennis Practice To Begin; Fogleman Very Optimistic

With a nucleus of five returning lettermen, a Finnish Davis Cup star, and a brand new clubhouse, the Wildcat netmen under Coach Harry Fogleman begin spring practice Monday. “I am very optimistic about the coming season,” said Coach Fogleman. “The schedule is about the same as in previous years and rates as being fairly tough.” The netmen open up their 25-game schedule on March 13 against East Stroudsburg. Other opponents include several universities from the Midwest and the East in addition to area schools. The fuzzballers also will participate in the Rollins College Tennis Week in Florida over the spring break.

The Wildcat roster is headed by George Berner, a Richardson Scholar from Finland, who is expected to play number one for Fogleman. Senior captain Sam Hatcher is expected to play number two and is the best of five returning lettermen which include Woody Falk, Dan Hearon, David Jennings, and Bruce Weidner. Sophomores Randy Jones and Bob Johnson along with freshmen James Cantrell and Harlan Day all have a chance of breaking into the starting lineup. “We will not have a freshman team this year but we have planned several junior varsity matches as extensions of the varsity matches to allow those players lower down on the ladder to participate,” said Fogleman in explaining the large lineup.

The most distinctive aspect of the coming season will be the new tennis clubhouse which will be completed in three weeks. Officially known as the Robert L. Stowe, Jr. Tennis House, the clubhouse is a donation toThe college from Stowe, '24. The house includes complete dressing facilities for the tennis team and also dressing facilities for faculty tennis players. There is also a lounge for studying and relaxation. Estimated to have cost over $25,000, the house has wall-to-wall carpeting and a public address system for the matches. Fogleman added that the new tennis house had prompted some people to nickname his players the “Clubhouse Set” while the facility itself is called “Happy Harry's House.”

Freshman scorer, sporting an average of about 20 points a game. In addition, the 6-6 forward has pulled in nearly 13 rebounds a game. Snipes, center at 6-8, scores nearly 20 points per game. He has hit right around 50% from the floor this season. Duncan Postma is another leading scorer for the frosh. “We have been especially happy with the play of Mark Affeldt and Gene Early,” Conboy said. These non-scholarship ballplayers both score in double figures regularly. Billy Pierce and Ron Stelzer, alternating at guard, combine to score an average of about 16 points a game. The latest win for the ‘Kittens was over VPI Wednesday night, 86-69. Snipes was the leading scorer in that game with 16. Several others scored in double figures for Davidson.

SNIPES GUNS AGAINST WAKE
Big man hitting better than 50 per cent.

We carefully clean and block all Sweaters and Cashmeres. We do quality work on suits and sports clothes. Also Shirt Laundry Service!
JACKSON CLEANERS
DEPOT STREET
Just Beyond Coffee Cup Restaurant

The Davidsonian
February 2, 1968
Page Five

Knowles-Led Rally Sparks Wildcat Win
Wildcat team captain Rod Knowles led Davidson past a stubborn VPI team Wednesday. Tossing in 20 points, all in the second half, Knowles’ effort enabled the ‘Cats to pull out an 81-76 victory. The game in Charlotte was a welcome return home for Davidson, who had played six of its last seven contests on the road. The win in the Coliseum was the sixth straight there this season. The ‘Cats remained undefeated in home games either in Davidson or in Charlotte this year. The Gobblers, who had won seven of their last eight starts before facing Davidson, played determined basketball and led a great part of the ball game. But the second half rally, sparked by the play of Knowles, gained the come-from-behind win for the ‘Cats.

Knowles had recently lost his starting position in the lineup. He entered the VPI game in the first half as a sub, then came on strong in the second half. He and Mike Maloy provided the rebounding strength which the Wildcats had lacked in the first half. Jerry Kroll also played an outstanding game for Davidson, contributing 19 points on fine inside shooting. Dave Moser hit several long jump shots and had one of his finest nights scoring this year. The redheaded guard popped in 14 points and played his usual strong floor game. The victory was the second straight for the ‘Cats since the exam lay-off. Last Saturday night in Greensboro, Wake Forest fell victim to the Wildcats by a 75-52 margin. It was sophomore Doug Cook leading the way that night. The big boy hit for 27 points. Davidson's full-court press and man-for-man defense was simply too much for the injury-ridden Deacon. It was after that game that head coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell said that Knowles would have to win his position back. His performance in the second half of the VPI game, both scoring and hustling on the boards, was one of his best games all season. The two wins bring the record of the Wildcats to 12-4 for the season. Ranked 18th in this week's national poll, the ‘Cats are hopeful of regaining a top ten berth. Success in the remainder of the schedule could make Davidson a contender for high recognition.

WVU Game Vital For SC Standing
A shot at an important Southern Conference Tournament berth is at stake as the Wildcats play host to the Mountaineers of West Virginia tomorrow night in the Coliseum. The Mounties stunned the ‘Cats with an 89-86 overtime upset the last time the teams met. Davidson was ranked 10th in the nation before that Jan. 13 loss. But the important aspect of tomorrow's game is that it will help to determine who finishes first in the conference regular season action, thereby gaining a number one tournament seed. Both teams have lost one conference game. The Wildcats still have four more league games remaining after the West Virginia contest. Next Tuesday in Greenville, the ‘Cats face Furman for the second time this season. Then next Saturday, Davidson will travel to Richmond to face the Spiders in another conference game. “Right now we are looking forward to the West Virginia game,” Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell said. He added that a Davidson-WVU game was always an important one on both teams’ schedule. The Mounties are on a win streak: They have not lost since the Davidson game, and they will be gunning for the ‘Cats. “They got off to a slow start. I believe they were unaccustomed to playing with Bailey (Carey Bailey is a transfer student from a junior college to West Virginia). But now they have made the adjustment and they are a better team than they were at the beginning of the season," Driesell added. In conclusion, he said that the game would be one of the biggest games of the year for Davidson.

Wildcats Want Victory In West Virginia Game
By JIM CROUSE
Sports Writer

Tomorrow night's game with West Virginia is one that the players really want to win. The game is important both from the standpoint of conference standings and from the standpoint of the team pride of the Wildcats. The first WVU game, which saw the Mounties overcome a huge Davidson lead late in the game, led many observers to wonder whether Davidson had what it takes to win the tough ones. Here was a team that dropped leads late in the game to lose to Vanderbilt, Duke, and now WVU. This late slump led to much speculation among Wildcat fans. Some felt that the ‘Cats went into a slowdown tactic too early. Others felt that the team might not be in good enough physical condition to be strong at the end of the game. Winning this rematch with WVU would help dispel skepticism about the worth of the team. It is this desire to put down doubt in their ability that makes the ‘Cats want this game badly. It is not a desire for revenge, but a hope to prove themselves. “You play basketball to win, not to seek revenge,” sophomore Jerry Kroll said. “We just intend to play a good game. Actually, we played 30 minutes of good ball against them last time. We will play 40 minutes of good ball and win down here," Doug Cook reaffirmed what Kroll had said about wanting to win this game. “There will be no problem in getting up for the game. We will be ready,” he said. Wayne Huckel compared the Wake Forest game, an easy win, with the WVU loss. “We could tell we were controlling Wake Forest and controlling the game. In the West Virginia game we were not forcing them to play the way we wanted them to. We will have to control them better this time." Mike Maloy blamed the loss on inability to get rebounds. “We must stop Williams and get to the boards to beat them,” he said. Point man Dave Moser respects WVU as a sound, well-coached team. Of tomorrow's game he said, “We'll just have to control the ball a little better once we get a lead.” All the players have great respect for Ron Williams, the super Mountaineer. Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell calls Williams one of the best players in the nation. He will have to be stopped in order to stop the offense of WVU. Going into this important game, the team is not overconfident. But Moser emphatically said that they are looking forward to the game.

THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEK DAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1818 W. Morehead

PIZZA