Page Six. May 3, 1968

The Davidsonian

INFIRMARY AILING? Gap In Information At Fault -- Passmore

The SGA Senate heard a report from junior John Passmore on the infirmary problem, adopted two more articles of the
proposed student by-laws, and handled various routine matters of the SGA in a relatively quiet session Tuesday night.

Passmore reported to the Senate that the infirmary system is not so inadequate as portrayed in Rich Cowart’s report to
Senate last week. Cowart’s report dealt with an incident which occurred in a freshman dorm in which students were unable
to secure medical aid for an injured student. Passmore noted that the infirmary does have a night phone number and
that emergency ambulance service is available to the college from Cornelius.

“The basic problem is one of lack of information,” said Passmore. “Emergency service is available to students but the information
is not commonly known by the students.” Passmore added that he was working with college officials to have the needed
phone numbers placed inside all campus phone booths for reference in an emergency.

In other business, the Senate adopted two articles of the bylaws and tabled a third for further study. Article V,
dealing with the duties of the officers of the SGA, was adopted with only slight revision. The chancellor of the
SGA, the only paid member of the student government, will be appointed only at the SGA President's request. Article VII
concerning freshman matters was passed after light discussion. Concerning hall counselors, the Senate decided to prohibit fraternity rush chairmen from
being hall counselors but deleted a restriction on the number of hall counselors a fraternity could have.

Earlier in the meeting, Murphy instructed Cowart to work on a proposal for the opening up of Chambers all night.
Murphy also asked sophomore Richard Howard to continue his investigation into the problems of married student housing.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Saturday, May 4
All Day - Western N. C. Instrumental Solo and Small Ensemble Contest
7:30 p.m. - “The Dickens” Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. - Oratorio Singer's Concert “B Minor Mass”

Sunday, May 5
4 p.m. - Wind Ensemble Concert Quadrangle
8 p.m. - Organ Recital College Church Stephan Schaeffer

Monday, May 6
10:25 a.m. - Chapel Love Auditorium IMAC Awards
7 p.m. - German Films Perkins Auditorium
7:15 p.m. - Lloyd Davidson's World Cruise

Tuesday, May 7
10:20 a.m. - Chapel Morrison Room Love Auditorium Academic Awards Day
1 p.m. - French Films
7 p.m. - Blow-Up — Guy Owen

Wednesday, May 8
8:15 p.m. - Drama Production Perkins Auditorium SAE House Hodson Hall “The Boy Friend”

Thursday, May 9
10:20 a.m. - Chapel
8:15 p.m. - Drama Production Love Auditorium Hodson Hall “The Boy Friend”

Behanna Relates Conversion Story

“LOVE IS TOUGH — IT HAS TO BE” Gert Behanna tells students story of her conversion.

Employee Wages Differ Within Fraternity Court

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

Results from a survey of all fraternity treasurers this week revealed striking variations in hourly wages paid cooks and student
employees of the various fraternities. Treasurers were asked to release statistics on salaries and hours for cooks, student waiters, and
house boys to supplement and substantiate data previously obtained. Since employees are paid a weekly or monthly salary not predicated
on exact hours, the number of hours worked is an estimate. Four treasurers were unable to give figures on hours,
while only one refused to release salary information.

Figures from the eight fraternities submitting complete data showed house cooks receiving an average of $1.32 an hour, slightly above
the College Union cafeteria minimum of $1.25 for all workers. However, this favorable average masks a variation from $1.00 to
$1.65 an hour for cooks in different houses. Hourly rates for fraternity student employees show an even wider variation than
that of the cooks. Some student waiters earn the equivalent of $2.30 per hour, while others are paid as little
as $0.80. However, the average wage for student workers in the houses is $1.40, which is generally above the cooks'
wages. By comparison, all student employees in the Union cafeteria receive $1.40 an hour.

Estimates of the number of hours worked may not be exact, for several treasurers said that it is hard to
tell when the cooks are really working or when they just relax between meals. Estimates of student waiters’ hours are
subject to the same error factors.

Of course, the above figures do not tell the whole story. Most house cooks are paid for all vacation periods
during the school year, and receive bonuses for big weekends. At least one house pays the entire 4.4 per cent
Social Security tax for their employees. Several of the treasurers contacted criticized the survey’s lack of questions concerning employment trends
over the past few years. Ken Gallup, Sigma Phi Epsilon treasurer, said, “The information requested is neither complete nor does
it reflect any attempts by the fraternities to better pay and working conditions.

“For example, our cooks’ salaries have been increased 18 per cent in the last two years, while the number of
hours has been reduced.” Bill Sossaman, Pi Kappa Alpha treasurer, reiterated Gallup's point, adding that cooks at his house are
now paid 25 per cent more than they were four years ago. Norm Hurwitz of Sigma Chi said that cooks
there would get about a 22 per cent raise next September. Two other treasurers said they plan to raise their
cooks' salaries in the neighborhood of 10 per cent in the next few months.

Town Hopes New Housing Will Improve Conditions

The Town of Davidson is depending on the new housing project sponsored by the Community Relations Committee to remedy the
problem of substandard housing in the town, according to a reliable town official who did not wish to be identified.
In the meantime, “housing inspection will be made to determine whether a house meets minimum standards or not after the
present occupants have moved out,” he said.

The North Carolina building code requires that dangerous-looking buildings be inspected and that notification of the dangerous condition be placed
conspicuously on an outside wall of the building. A fine of $10 to $50 is provided for each day the
building remains in that condition after the notice is posted. However, Davidson has not pursued a stringent inspection policy, due
mainly to the lack of alternative housing for those living in substandard houses. The town official noted that the process
of condemning only when the occupant dies or moves may be slow, but said that it was the only reasonable
policy available.

The housing project now under way is sponsored by the Mayor’s Community Relations Committee, and although all of the 21
houses which are now practically complete will be occupied by Negroes, the development is open to all. According to Burt
Narramore of Bridgeport Fabrics, who is chairman of the development, the project will ultimately involve some 72 lots. The first
stage, however, will be limited to 34, he said, because new financing will be required for the rest. Applications are
still being processed for the 34, and more applications can be made, he said. All applications so far have been
made by Negroes.

Soph’s Condition Good After Fall

Sophomore Robin Murray was reported in good condition at Memorial Hospital in Charlotte today following a fall on the staircase
leading to the snack bar in the Union. Murray suffered a head wound and was moved to the infirmary by
a group of students during chapel period. College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee then took him by ambulance into Charlotte, where he
was hospitalized for observation.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN BOLINGER

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
ROCKY CROSSWHITE
BILL BERRY

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEENS

Photographers:
JOE FRIEBEL
BOB McKELLAR
GEORGE ROBINSON

Cartoonists:
NAT HEYWARD
DICK POOLE
CULLUM ROGERS

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Circulation Manager:
TOM MORRILL

Contributors this week:
Lewis Riley, David Branch, Gary Sigmon, Clyde Kluckhohn, Biff Fine, Jim Bailey, Paul Schneider, Allen Lewis, Danny White, Danny Coltrane,
Bill Warren, Paul Rowland, Richard Hinson, Jule Young, Don Hoyt, Norwood Poland, Hugh Marr, Greg Schott, Tom Vernon, Rob Krehbiel,
Dave Cook, and Ed Hay.

Subscription rate: $6.00 per year (if billed, $6.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036"There's nothing worse
than a sniveling sinner," said Mrs. Gertrude Behanna, guest speaker in chapel Tuesday. Mrs. Behanna, who was previously an alcoholic,
told the story of her life and how she was converted to Christianity. Mrs. Behanna said that the United States
is not a Christian country as it claims to be. She criticized the hypocrisy of printing "In God we trust"
on money when money is what we really trust. Although she spoke out on current issues in American life, she
was mainly concerned with Christian attitudes of service to humanity and concern for the welfare of one’s fellow man. "Sister
to every human on earth, black, brown, red, yellow, white—the works," she said. "No matter how degraded or poor or
socially obscure an individual may be, he deserves our aid and concern." Her religious experience changed her entire way of
life. In her own words: "It was as though we were Siamese twins, one of whom must die so the
other might live." She emphasized that a desire to benefit the world was not enough. "Love is tough, it has
to be." To her, "The supreme example of love is a man hanging on a cross." She said that she
believed in Christ because it suited her own personal needs. Mrs. Behanna summed up her own life story when she
said that she had once been 100 per cent pagan and that she was now trying her best to be
100 per cent Christian.

Dobbs: Radio In Fall
By DAVID COOK
Staff Writer

Ed Dobbs, chairman of the student committee for a school radio station, said yesterday that plans were well underway for
the establishment of a Davidson radio station to be in operation by next September. Dobbs added that plans were still
under investigation by a student-faculty committee, but if approved, would allow for the establishment of a carrier-current system serving the
main campus similar to the one at Wake Forest. "With favorable student support," he explained, "this system could be expanded
under the Federal Communications Commission into an FM frequency. This would allow a broadcasting range to include the Davidson and
outlying communities." Headquarters for the station would be located in the sound booth of Love Auditorium. Explaining that the college
already had most of the equipment necessary to begin broadcasting, Dobbs said many technical questions still remained to be considered.
Dobbs explained that the purpose of a radio station would be to respond to student educational needs by providing an
outlet for student apathy in return for a program centering around student needs.

HUD Spokesman Explains Ghetto Housing Problems
By RICHARD HINSON
Staff Writer

Government resources are not capable of supplying enough money to correct housing and urban problems, said Don Frye, director of
special personnel for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Affairs. Speaking to a small group of students at Open
End in the College Union last night, Frye discussed the problems of open housing and ghettoes. Frye said that the
main problems connected with open housing are enforcement and education. "You're not going to pass a law that is quite
different from the pattern that had been practiced for the past decades—and centuries in some areas—without problems," he said. He
said that if interested groups of citizens carry out educational programs, those who disagree with the law will be more
easily persuaded than if the government simply forced it on people. Frye indicated that open housing will have the greatest
impact on the "border areas" where ghettos are beside a higher class area. Frye had a good deal to say
about the ghettos, but did not have a specific solution to the problem. He said that ghetto dwellers must develop
a sense of pride if the problem is to be solved. "He's got to feel he's losing something," Frye said.
When asked about government participation, Frye said, "I don't think that the government can do a massive enough spending job
to solve this problem... private firms must realize that they have a vested interest." Ford, Goodyear, and Sears and Roebuck
have already started programs which are designed to raise the standards of those who live in ghettos, Frye said. He
stated quite specifically that he doesn't think guns will solve the problem because they will not stop the hard-core rioter.
"In the summer he's too hot, in the winter he's too cold, and all the time he's hungry. The creation
of hope and desire in this hard-core group, I think, is the greatest problem of all," he said.

Minter Forecasts
By BOB REID
Associate Editor

U.S. Rep. James Gardner of Rocky Mount and Lt. Gov. Bob Scott will emerge as winners Saturday when North Carolinians
go to the polls in one of the most significant gubernatorial primaries in the state's history, according to Dr. W.
P. Minter, chairman of the political science department. Although the campaign has been largely devoid of issues, it has been
eventful for several reasons: It marks the first time the state Republican Party has held a primary election. Two of
the candidates are sons of former governors. A Negro is running for governor. With the exception of Negro Democratic candidate
Dr. Reginald Hawkins of Charlotte, all candidates for governor have run on personalities rather than specific issues, Minter said, with
the four white candidates trying not to appear liberal. "The mood of the state is basically conservative," Dr. Minter said,
"and this is due, I believe, to the backlash and fear of fiscal irresponsibility in Washington. No one wants to
be liberal." "To understand politics in North Carolina you have to remember that there are two types of conservatism here,"
he said. "There is the eastern type which is tinged with racism and the piedmont type which is a business-oriented
conservatism." "Most of the candidates have to operate in the context of this conservatism," he added. Most, except for Dr.
Hawkins, a Charlotte dentist who has called for open housing and increased educational benefits for the deprived. But running against
Dr. Hawkins are the sons of two former governors, who are widely known in North Carolina by their own right.
Scott, who some say represents the moderate wing of the party, is given the edge tomorrow by many observers, including
Dr. Minter. But Scott has carefully avoided making detailed policy statements on the issues and has relied more on charm
and the memory of his father to stir up support.

Polled Students Support Boycott And Wet Campus
By ED HAY
Staff Writer

Strong student support of the boycott of Johnson's barbershop and an almost unanimous desire for drinking on campus was exhibited
in a student poll taken by senior Kirk Reed recently. The poll included 100 students, 50 of which were freshmen,
and 50 of which were seniors. The students were selected at random, using a random numbers table. "The probability that
it is an accurate reflection of student opinion is very high," Reed said. "The results should be as concise as
a poll of this size permits." Twenty-two per cent of the students polled said they had picketed the barbershop. 17
per cent of these were freshmen and 28 per cent were seniors. The question "I was in sympathy with what
the picketers were doing," resulted in 73 per cent answered yes, while 2 per cent had no opinion. The poll
shows an almost unanimous support of a new drinking rule (97 per cent), said Reed. "The results on those who
favor the boycott were much higher than expected." Campus-wide drinking on appropriate occasions drew the support of 45 per cent
of the students, with 32 per cent of the freshmen and 58 per cent of the seniors. Only 3 per
cent favored no drinking at all on campus, with 2 per cent of the freshmen and 4 per cent of
the seniors in favor.

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open to students Sunday night at 8:
Pinkerton Grey Road
Locke White 203 Lorimer
Workman 209 Lorimer
