May 3, 1968 Page Four — The Davidsonian

Where The Girls Aren't

College basketball recruiting seems to occupy more than its share of space in the newspapers lately. Almost every day I
read about some high school player who is all-everything being signed by some institution. The announcement of the signing usually
appears on the second or third page of the sports news. With some players, the comic pages would be more
appropriate. Besides the name, height, and weight of the individual, the newspaper article includes all the impressive statistics the recruit
has totaled in his three years of high school. Following this, a quote about the boy by the head coach
is thrown in to make the whole affair appear like a serious business transaction, which maybe it is. More often
the signing “ceremony” is an excuse for the coach to release some off-season publicity. South Carolina’s Frank McGuire declared USC
the basketball capital of the world after he signed a certain 6'10" wonder boy. I'm sure this statement shouldn’t really
be taken seriously.

It goes without saying that recruiting is a large part of the “big time” college basketball coach’s job today. With
very few exceptions, the nationally ranked teams of next year will be the results of good recruiting two or three
years ago. It seems as though teams are made and lost in the springtime after the season is over when
the “critical time” of recruiting descends. Being on both sides of this “rat race,” I see college basketball recruiting as
both a bad and good practice. Needless to say, like my skin team (substitutes) comrades, I wasn't the most sought-after
piece of basketball material during my senior year in high school. Still, several coaches from various schools, both big and
small, did see me once in a while, so I feel I can speak from limited experience. Although the pressure
wasn't very bad on me, I think recruiting hurts a high school athlete who is sort of bewildered with the
whole question of schools and basketball teams and is not really sure of what he wants. Then again, basketball recruiting
provides a way he can see different campuses and student bodies at no cost to himself. Also, the recruit doesn’t
lose any weight eating those big steaks the recruiting coaches buy him.

From my bad and good experiences, I divide basketball recruiting into two classes: the big university “glance at it” system
and the small college “live in it” level. Naturally, both levels show the best they have to offer while hiding
the worst. The big university tends to show only the spacious athletic dorm which will be the player's home for
four years. Having no athletic dorm, the small college lets the recruit stay with the rest of the students. Likewise,
the big university exhibits the large beautiful field house where the team practices and plays. The small college reveals its
small student body by taking the recruit to certain classes with the most interesting professors. The big university keeps the
recruit away from the masses while the small college strives to show that they don’t have any. Both “selling” systems
work differently, depending upon the individual.

Certainly, Davidson fits in the small college recruiting level, although it usually does a better job than most of the
big universities. Davidson can offer most of what the big universities have except one important thing, and in the two
or three days the recruit is here, he doesn’t really notice what’s missing. It usually takes the first week of
his freshman year before the Davidson basketball signee starts wondering where all the girls are. Then it’s too late. Well,
girls or not, basketball recruiting does give the player one good thing: a free education. All he has to do
is live with the school and the coach for four years.

SAILORS SHINE IN SAISA
(Staff Photo by Weems)
Team will ask faculty for varsity status.

Seacats To Petition For Varsity Status
By LEWIS RILEY
Sports Writer

The Davidson College sailing team makes its first formal appeal for status as a varsity sport to the Faculty Athletic
Committee on Thursday, May 9. Organized as part of the Sailing Club in the spring of 1965, the team has
for several years participated in intercollegiate competition with other varsity teams in the Southeast. The sailors began their formal competition
in early 1966 after the team became a member of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association. The SAISA, made up
of Clemson, Duke, Old Dominion, College of Charleston, The Citadel, William and Mary, and the University of South Carolina in
addition to Davidson, holds spring and fall seasons every year. The Davidson team has been active and proficient in this
competition. They have been the runners-up in the fall competition several times and have been invited to compete in two
intersectional regattas. This past year the sailors had a full schedule of fourteen meets and were again runners-up in the
fall championships. In addition to competition in meets, Davidson has provided active leadership in the SAISA. In 1967 Bob Murphy
served as president of that body. This year James Lee is vice-president and John Moore is on the Executive Committee.
The team is coached by Professor Hallam Walker, while Coach Charles Parker...

Golf Team Looking Strong As SC Tournament Nears
By BILL BERRY
Assistant Sports Editor

The Davidson golf team is coming on strong after a poor start and looks like a strong contender for its
third consecutive Southern Conference Championship. The team has compiled a 4-8-1 record against predominantly Atlantic Coast Conference competition. On the
surface, the record seems unimpressive, but most of the losses were accumulated against subsidized teams at the beginning of the
season. Recently, the team has played very well and scored impressive victories over Duke and NC State. The Duke victory,
14½-4½, was probably the best team match of the year, as the seven golfers averaged overall...’Cat Contests

Saturday, May 4
2 p.m. Baseball
Baseball Field
Davidson vs. East Carolina
2 p.m. Track
State Meet
Durham

Sunday, May 5
2 p.m. Golf
Myrtle Beach, S.C.
Southern Conference Tourney

Monday, May 6
2 p.m. Golf
Myrtle Beach, S.C.
Southern Conference Tourney
2 p.m. Tennis
Lexington, Va.
Southern Conference Tourney

Tuesday, May 7
2 p.m. Baseball
Greenville, S.C.
Davidson vs. Furman
2 p.m. Tennis
Lexington, Va.
Southern Conference Tourney
Myrtle Beach, S.C.
Southern Conference Tourney

Wednesday, May 8
2 p.m. Golf
Myrtle Beach, S.C.
Southern Conference Tourney
2 p.m. Tennis
Lexington, Va.
Southern Conference Tourney

Friday, May 10
1:30 p.m. Baseball
Charleston, S.C.
Davidson vs. The Citadel

The only loss absorbed in the past few weeks was to the very strong Wake Forest team in the rain
on Monday, 17-4. George Leight was medalist for the 'Cats with a 76. The linkmen are coached by Athletic Director
Dr. Tom Scott. The seven team members who play regularly are George Leight, Danny White, Mike Spann, Cary Hite, John
Giles, Tucker Dalton, and Doug Clark.

Leight has been the steadiest and most consistent player throughout the season. He has the low average on the team
with a 74. Danny White has the second lowest average at 75, but his scores have been up and down.
Mike Spann had a very slow start this season due to basketball, but is rounding into his old form. After
several low scores lately, he has his average down to 77. Both Cary Hite and Tucker Dalton have been consistently
in the 70's. Hite was medalist in the Duke match and is averaging 77, while Dalton’s average is 78. John
Giles, like Spann, had a very slow start. He has improved his average down to 80 in recent weeks. A
newcomer to the team, freshman Doug Clark, played the best on the team at the beginning of the season, but
he has slumped recently. His average is about 73.

At present, the sailing team is the only team representing Davidson College which does not have varsity status. In the
past, there has been some talk of making sailing a varsity sport, but no formal action has ever been taken.
In recent weeks, the SGA Senate, the D. Club, and the Freshman Council have endorsed a proposal to give sailing
varsity recognition. The final decision, however, is to be made by the Faculty Athletic Committee on May 9.

If these kids don't make it, neither do we.

Sophomore Star Slade: Bright Light In ’Cat Fog
By DON SEWELL
Associate Editor

Davidson's Wildcat baseball team has been unable to find the winning secret this season, but it has found quite a
hitter in Gordon Slade. The sophomore right fielder, converted from third base, is hitting an even .500 clip after 22
games. Slade’s average is good enough to make him the leading hitter in the Southern Conference. In 78 trips to
the plate this year, he has hit safely 39 times.

Slade does not attribute his success against pitchers to any tricks or gimmicks. He does not use a split grip
or go through any batter's box ritual. “I have always tried to bat the correct way. I listen to the
things people say and I have tried to do what produces the best results,” he said. “When you're hitting the
ball, sooner or later you are going to stop getting good pitches to hit. You have to learn to take
the curve ball into right field,” he commented.

The pitching that Davidson has faced has not been particularly impressive to Slade. “Almost all the pitchers we have played
against have been right-handers with average speed, control, and junk. They have been sort of stereotyped."

Last year on the freshman team, Slade hit right around .450 for the season. In addition to playing third base,
he pitched some last year. His mound efforts were not satisfying to him, so this season he has not pitched
at all.

Slade has been actively scouted by professional teams. After his graduation from high school in Evansville, Indiana, scouts from Cincinnati
and Baltimore tried to get him under contract. But his college plans kept him from accepting any offers.

Fielding presented Slade with some problems while he was playing the infield this year. About halfway through the season, Coach
Tom Stevens moved him to right field. Since the shift, Slade has not committed an error.

Slade said that he has been able to keep his average high because of some good breaks in the middle
of the season. He added that the play of the team late in the season has made the year more
satisfying to him than the earlier part of the schedule. “Now we're not beating ourselves so much,” he said.

The 'Cats have four more games to play, all conference games. Slade is a strong contender for both the All-Conference
team and the batting crown.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 332-2414

These are big city school children. They are partners of all who try to build and keep our cities alive
with hope and promise of personal dignity. If we fail these partners, they will fail, as finally will we all.
To the Bell System, they also are customers and, prospectively, many are fellow employees. Those we hire will bring with
them attitudes and skills produced by city life and city schools. Their qualities will help shape the quality of our
service. And service is our product.

Bell System companies and people are increasingly engaged to help meet the problems of the cities, especially those concerning education
and employability. In these areas, our skills and other business resources may have extra value. We shall try to keep
our deeds outrunning our words.
