**The Davidsonian**

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

SAM BOYTE Editor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1968

Disfranchisement

The role given to students and faculty in the selection of a successor to Dr. D. Grier Martin as president
of the college is not really as pitiful as it sounds. Unofficially, the word is that faculty members and students
may have more influence in the selection process than the weak-sounding position of advisory committees would indicate. Some members of
the college community have said they would not be at all surprised if the advisory committees were asked to meet
with candidates and submit reports of their impressions as a result of those meetings. Close attention has been promised to
the recommendations of the student and faculty groups. Their opinions may play a significant role in helping the selection committee
make up its mind.

It is, however, very disappointing that the actual selection committee will not include members of the faculty and student body.
When the decision-making process gets right down to the real nitty-gritty, it will be a group of four key trustees
that will make the final recommendation to the Board of Trustees for approval. This should at least ensure the selection
of a candidate who will be satisfactory to the trustees. And, after all, the president of a college should enjoy
a pleasant relationship with the body that hires and fires him. Because there is little reason to doubt the integrity
and loyalty to the college of the four men who will make up the selection committee, it is probable that
their candidate will not send faculty members and students into a rage of disgust.

It is quite true that the right to cast one ballot in such a decision is not a particularly impressive
instrument of power. On the other hand, the fact that one is present for the discussion leading up to that
vote can be very significant. This presence allows one to give a final rebuttal to any objections raised against one’s
case. The power to attempt to persuade others when they have finished playing games is much more useful than the
vote that may also be attached to that power. It is certainly much more influential than simply making one of
several recommendations. Even the chance to appear in person to answer questions from the group making the real decision may
not be really important. The trustees have to worry twice a year about a president who is not able to
merit confidence from the students and faculty members at his college. The latter two groups, however, bear the consequences of
his decisions each day of the school year. It is only proper, therefore, that they have an influential voice in
choosing the man who will chart the course of their daily existence.

In explaining why the executive committee of the trustees excluded the faculty and student body from a direct role in
choosing the new president, Walter L. Lingle, chairman of the Board of Trustees, points out that such an action is
not legal according to the charter of the Board of Trustees. If indeed there is no way to reinterpret the
provisions of that charter, it would be extremely disappointing if we waited until the resignation of our next president to
consider revising that document.

Slicks Take Over

The slicks took over the campus this week. A beautiful ceremony marked the coming of the short-lived regime. The trees
were hung with silver bunting. A carpet of spun glass was spread across the campus. Several students were given seats
of honor. Afterwards, they were given medical advice and treatment for their bruises and broken bones they received in occupying
those seats. The judicious use of salt might have saved them from their pains. But after all, this is North
Carolina. And who ever heard of freezing rain that amounted to anything?

Dear Rushee,

Dear Rushee,

Rejection is a term the meaning of which is significant not just to senior grad school applicants. In years past,
the term has often entered into discussions about a freshman’s participation in the fraternity system. It has even been the
focal point of many of these discussions. Logically, the term probably is becoming of some concern to you and many
of your friends these days. Beside the exam schedules posted on various campus bulletin boards have appeared posters headed “Rushee.”
You have probably concluded, therefore, that something besides exams is beginning to concern the thoughts of some Davidson students. Your
much-heralded perceptive abilities once again proved indubitable. There is indeed something else. After a few days of post-exam recuperation, you
will be exposed to the changing Davidson tradition of rush. If you are the least bit normal, you probably have
some fears that as this time approaches you will make some mistakes, leading to the awesome torture of REJECTION.

Please allow us to quiet your fears. Rejection is no longer the great fear that it once was at our
now-liberated campus. We have become open-minded. No longer do we reject people. Yes, there probably will be some people who
snicker. “Look at that guy—he isn’t socially competent. He is a mother’s boy who has to be nursed along socially.”
There may even be a few who will sneer, “See how he has withdrawn from where the action is—he can’t
compete.” But, rushee, do not be intimidated. You can show these backward individuals that you know how to get the
most from your precious few years as an undergraduate. You may find seniors now regretting having had to take the
course you choose. You may find that others who have experienced what you now choose are seeking to find more
realistic solutions to their social problems. But you will not be rejected, rushee, because of any mistakes you make. You
can still make a success of your college career. Others have. You may even meet some girls who will actually
think you are a pretty slick guy because you decided to wear a fraternity pin. And you always get to
meet a lot of nice people during rush.

We Wonder...

Members of the Davidson faculty were instrumental in removing the controversial speaker ban imposed at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill a few years ago. Yet, while they were doing this, the Controversial Speakers Committee continued its quiet
and normally unobtrusive existence at Davidson. In its stated intention, this committee does not exist for the purpose of imposing
any sort of speaker ban at Davidson. Statements by college officials have indicated that the only stipulation it requires of
persons seeking to give a platform to a controversial speaker is that some provision be made for a presentation by
those who disagree with the “controversial” speaker.

Either through oversight or a rightful indignation at having to submit to the process of having to apply to hear
a speaker, the Southern Student Organizing Committee failed to get clearance from this committee before having George Vlastis speak on
campus Wednesday. Vlastis was not prevented by the committee from presenting his objections to the present draft system although the
normal requirements had not been met. Miss Lynn Wells, North Carolina organizer for SSOC, has stated many times that the
fear of student reaction often causes college administrators to back down from enforcing archaic rules.

Just because we are idealistic and simple-minded, we hope the decision by the committee not to block Vlastis was motivated
by a feeling that the old rule need not be invoked instead of just by fear of an unpopular reaction.

RONALD REAGAN

Academic Freedom Is Limited

Following is a portion of an address by Gov. Ronald Reagan of California, delivered on Oct. 26 at Kansas State
University.

What is our definition of academic freedom? Those who teach, understandably enough, define it as the right to teach as
they see fit without interference from administrators and certainly not from those who hold the public purse-strings or who fill
the public purse. But those who pay for the education—students and taxpayers—also have a definition of academic freedom: their freedom
to have some say in what they get for their money. Those holding public office try to interpret the will
of the people and pass it on to the university administration, conscious always that they must not appear to be
exerting political control over education. Equally uncomfortable are the administrators who must interpret the educational viewpoint to the crass politicians
and vice versa—they can be likened to a prisoner in front of a cellophane wall being shouted at by both
sides. And the truth is—all the claims are legitimate and must be reconciled within a framework of mutual understanding and
compromise.

The dictionary defines education as “the impartation or acquisition of knowledge, skill, or the development of character as by study
or discipline.” The taxpayer is wrong who ignores the great increase in things we know—knowledge acquired since he was in
school—and who demands “no new-fangled courses: What was good enough then is good enough now.” But so is the student
wrong who would eliminate all required courses and grades, who would make education a kind of four-year smorgasbord in which
he would be the sole judge of how far and fast he ran in pursuit of knowledge. And that educator
is wrong who denies there are any absolutes, who sees no black or white of right or wrong, but just
shades of gray in a world where discipline of any kind is an intolerable interference with the right of the
individual. He rebels at the old-fashioned idea of loco parentis and claims he is there to impart knowledge, not to
substitute for absentee parents. But he cannot escape a responsibility for the students’ development of character and maturity. Strangely and
illogically, this is very often the same educator who interprets his academicfreedom as the right to indoctrinate students with his
view of things. Woe to the student who challenges his interpretation of history, or who questions the economic theory given
as proven formula in what is, at best, a very inexact science. One thing we should all be agreed on
is the university's obligation to teach, not indoctrinate.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Students May Advise

Dear Editor:

A trustee committee has been appointed to nominate a successor to Dr. (D. Grier) Martin. As you know from our
news release, we are seeking advice and suggestions from all interested parties including faculty, students, alumni, church presbyteries, and friends
of the college.

Once upon a time...

CRAP Committee Shows Council Active This Year

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

As one Student Council member walked out of the meeting Tuesday night, he commented: “It always seems as if we're
getting so much done during the meeting, but then when it's over, it turns out we haven't really done much.”
At first glance this honest opinion may be substantiated, yet this Council will probably go down in college history as
one of the most active of councils because of the major reforms they made.

The answer to this seeming contradiction is that most of the major work is being done by separate committees appointed
by the Council. The most recent is one which we indeed hope will not live up to its abbreviated name
CRAP—the Committee on Rules and Punishments, a joint student-faculty committee. Headed by senior Mike Carroll, the committee was appointed by
the Council to revise the system of rules and punishment to make it both more realistic and more efficient.

Dr. A. J. McKelway and Dr. Robert D. Kaylor, members of the Bible and Religion department, and Will Terry, pastor
of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, were invited to be voting members of the committee both to make it more
legitimate and appealing and to reciprocate to the faculty for the privilege of allowing students to participate on previously all-faculty
committees.

“Our basic purpose is to update and reorganize the regulations governing student life,” said McKelway. “We hope to cut down
considerably on the number of regulations and concentrate on principles of behavior, rather than specific regulations. Our guiding thought is
that with fewer regulations they will be obeyed more readily.”

According to Carroll, the committee is presently placing the regulations in several categories in order that those which are obviously
unnecessary may be either abolished or reworded for the college catalogue. A quick look through the Wildcat Handbook section listing
the faculty regulations reveals a few antiquated and a few hypocritical rules. For example, the rule which states that “when
girls are in a fraternity house, it is necessary that at least two couples be present and that the rooms
be adequately illuminated” is certainly not intended simply to aid Davidson's benefactor Duke Power Co.

According to McKelway, the most important principle of behavior is that of “gentlemanly conduct,” which he said “may seem a
bit amorphous and archaic, but is still very important.” The regulations will be adapted to this principle and thus will
not have to be spelled out in detail.

McKelway emphasized that this is not just a liberalizing committee to soften the rules. There are some areas of student
discipline which need better regulations, as evidenced by the damage done to dormitories every year. The important thing is to
create a climate where the students realize they are responsible for their dormitories and will ask not “Is this allowed?”
but rather “Is this harmful?”

Another area of student discipline which McKelway cited as needing improvement is the attitude students take toward the campus security
officers (i.e., Cop Linker, etc.). He said he expects the students will show more respect for these men if they
are enforcing a code that students believe in.

“Davidson College ought to be training students to live by a philosophy of behavior, not just legal regulations,” said McKelway.
“Student life may require more self-discipline and a psychological readjustment for students at first, but the total result will be
more satisfactory to both students and administration.”

Naturally there will be a clash between students and administration as to how strictly the rules ought to be enforced.
This is inevitable from the very nature of the student position and the administrative position. Hopefully the clash will be
minimized by the mutual respect of both groups for the rules and the common sense employed in enforcing them.

At any rate, some immediate changes can be made, even if there is no basic change in the legal philosophy
of the college. Even this much would reward the work of Carroll's committee. Yet hopefully the eventual result will be
one set of regulations governing student life, subscribed to by students and faculty, which will end forever cases such as
the slightly inebriated student who is ignored by the students and nailed to the wall by the administration.

The Student Council has been asked to select a student committee to advise the trustee committee of student views on
this matter. In addition, if any student would like to suggest the name of any person as a prospect to
succeed Dr. Martin, our committee would be interested in hearing directly from him. We would like to have the suggestions
sent in writing to Mr. William F. Mulliss, secretary of the committee, whose address is Helms, Mulliss, McMillan and Johnston,
800 North Carolina National Bank Building, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28202. Any suggestions will, of course, be held in strictest confidence
by the committee.

I shall appreciate it if you will publish this letter in THE DAVIDSONIAN so that all of the students at
the college will know of this invitation.

Walter L. Lingle, Jr.
Chairman,
Board of Trustees

By HEYWARD CARTER
Associate Editor

A DIARCHY NEEDED

During the past ten years, Davidson has undergone what has been the most revolutionary and the most crucial period in
its history. The days of crisis for the small, private liberal arts college are clearly a fact of academic life.
It is a time when Davidson and colleges like it are forced either to fold up completely—or at least to
resign themselves to the position of profit-making diploma factories—or to put themselves in a position where their academic excellence makes
them indispensable.

Davidson in the last few years has decided upon the latter course. Whether or not it can be agreed upon
as to exactly from what source the impetus for this decision has come, it is obvious that an important part
in reaching it has been played by President Martin. As has been pointed out recently, Dr. Martin has accomplished two
main goals in the last few years. He has first led in the raising of more than $13 million through
the Ford Challenge Grant and other fund drives, and he has led the college through a period of severe academic
change, culminating in the adoption of the new curriculum.

These two achievements illustrate clearly the situation which Dr. Martin’s successor will face. Davidson's new president must devote all of
his energy both to directing a new academic-intellectual program which must grow progressively in excellence to continue to be worthwhile,
and to finding the funds for supporting these ever-expanding programs. Both jobs are essential and both jobs are becoming increasingly
more difficult as their importance increases, as it must.

In the past these two functions of the president admittedly have been important. They have become so crucial and so
demanding in recent years, in fact, that one man can no longer handle them both. Dr. Martin is an excellent
president, but he is soon becoming an ex-president precisely because of the importance and the demands these duties have acquired.
He is faced essentially with the choice of either trying to carry out alone these duties as well as they
should be carried out, which is now impossible, or of admitting its impossibility and resigning. To try to do the
clearly impossible would mean defeat and frustration, physical and mental, so he has taken the only choice left (especially to
a man already in ill health) and has resigned.

Now that the position of president is open it is the ideal time to remedy the situation caused by the
growth of these two areas by establishing two separate posts for the two separate but necessary positions. More and more
small colleges are turning to this method to solve this same problem—it is, in fact, the only solution to the
problem. It is clear that Davidson, especially with its new program of academic expansion and the increase of fund solicitations
such a program entails, will have to face this solution in the near future. Now is the best opportunity to
establish these dual posts, and it must be taken.

The idea at Davidson is not completely a new one. Dr. McGavock mentioned it last week after Dr. Martin’s announcement
of his resignation, and THE DAVIDSONIAN suggested it in an editorial. It has been discussed, especially among some faculty and
administration members for some time. This is the time to implement it.

The plan is simple: to retain the post of president of the college and to establish another post, that of
dean or chancellor. The president would be responsible for the direction of Davidson’s academic growth, while the dean would take
care of the fund raising which makes the academic growth possible. Both areas complement each other and both are vital
to the life of the college—so vital, in fact, that to neglect either would mean not only Davidson's failure to
achieve her goal as being one of the best liberal arts colleges in the nation, but also the probable death
of the college itself.

Davidson has come a long way in the past ten years under Dr. Martin. To keep from taking the necessary
and obvious step now would mean that his efforts and the efforts of everyone else involved in Davidson’s growth and
future have been in vain.
