BASEBALLERS WIN 2 (REALLY!) (See Page Five)

Oh ye Havidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1968

GEORGE CORE FIRES FIRST LAST SHOT (See Page Two)

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

(Staff Photos by Weems)

THEY'RE FOR REAL

Trustee W. C. Neill meets students.

Lingle Mingles As Students Question

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Managing Editor

Take five or 10 students, add the chairman of the Board of Trustees, give an open door to student comment—and
then observe. The situation arose last night when students got a chance to talk to the trustees in an informal
session in the lobby of Chambers Building. Each student—except for a quiet freshman—had his angle, and tried to impress it
upon Walter L. Lingle Jr., the trustees’ chairman. One senior did not think the new president should automatically be a
Presbyterian and said so—in the same sentence reworded at least 10 times. While the senior repeatedly asserted the Presbyterian-only rule
was illogical, Lingle, arguing quietly and a little defensively, made an equally good case for the impracticality of changing the
rule until clear cause arose. He pointed out that only 5 of the college's 14 presidents were Davidson graduates in
reply to the senior’s claim that the restriction tended to narrow the choice to Davidson alumni. A sophomore senator asked
Lingle about the effect of publicity on the search for the president. It could be harmful, Lingle replied, but so
far it hasn't been. Lingle also made it clear that he had no intention of becoming Davidson's fifteenth president. As
conversation moved to the role of the student advisory committee, Lingle admitted that the new president must have student support
but noticeably shrank back from the word “veto” suggested by a student. Pressed about the role of the student committee,
Lingle defended the lack of student representation on the official trustee committee by citing unfortunate experiences at other colleges where
the idea had been tried. Students in those cases, he said, had broken confidences and had been useless. He expressed
a strong fear of premature judgment and seemed fairly certain that the trustees could easily miss the best choice for
president. When an SGA leader cited fraternity rush as an example of premature judgment, Lingle quickly noted that he had
not pledged a fraternity until his junior year, drawing the only laugh of the hour-long discussion. Half of the group
were Independents. The discussion broke up when another trustee interrupted to offer apologies for not replying to a letter, and
the students wandered off to pin down other members of the board, one muttering that the refreshments had run out.

Staff Promotions, Changes

A number of changes and promotions in the faculty and college staff were announced this morning to the Board of
Trustees by the college's administrative heads. In administrative reports to the President and Trustees of Davidson College, Business Manager Robert
Currie announced the retirement of M. W. McGill, bursar and assistant treasurer. McGill, who has been with the college since
1922, will retire at the end of the year. Dean of Students Richard Burts Jr. announced that Assistant Dean of
Students Jim Terry would become adviser to fraternities. Terry replaces Tom Covington, who will continue as assistant director of the
College Union and part-time assistant to the president. Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston announced two pending retirements and a
number of other changes. Dr. William P. Cumming, professor of English, will officially retire next month. He has been on
terminal sabbatical leave in England this year. Dr. James B. Woods Jr., college physician, has also reached the mandatory retirement
age. Johnston reported, however, that Woods would remain on the staff until a replacement is found. Four faculty members are
leaving: George E. Core, Grier M. Williams, Leroy Percy, and H. Dabbs Woodfin. Six professors will be away from the
campus for part or all of next year: Earl R. MacCormac, Richard C. Cole, Ralph Gable, John D. Kelton, George
Labban Jr., and Paul C. Fisher. Six others will be returning: Frank W. Bliss, W. Brown Patterson, James M. Fredericksen,
George L. Abernethy, Hansford Epes, and Francis Ghigo.

Trustees Request Delay For Complete Analysis

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

The Board of Trustees today postponed action on the report of the Committee on Rules and Punishments, with the understanding
that it will be a topic of discussion at the next trustee meeting “in the near future.” Walter L. Lingle
Jr., chairman of the board, said a majority of trustees “wanted the chance to study the code in light of
the elucidation and discussion at the meeting today. Unfortunately, the final version of the code was not reduced to paper
until last night,” he added, “so the trustees were not yet ready to make a final decision on it.” The
report was presented to them by the Trustee Student Life Committee in the form that was adopted by the faculty
Wednesday. Harllee Branch, chairman of this committee, said the committee recommended the report to the trustees. The only changes made
by the faculty concern the designation of places for drinking on campus and the requirements for open dormitories. They also
delayed action on the judiciary section until it is examined by legal advisers. Lingle cited this as another reason that
the trustees postponed action. “There was some question about the compatibility of this section with the laws of the state
of North Carolina,” he said. He did not cite any particular conflict but said this was “a generalization made by
Harllee Branch.” He said discussion on the CRAP report lasted about an hour. President D. Grier Martin, Dean of Faculty
Frontis W. Johnston, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, R. David Kaylor, faculty member of the CRAP committee, and three
students were present at the meeting to answer questions about the report. The change in the section of the Code
of Responsibility concerning alcoholic beverages states that drinking “will be tolerated only in areas specifically designated by and under conditions
prescribed by the faculty, administration, and the student senate.” The change in the section on residence hall life states that
“women visitors are permitted in the residence halls only on college-conducted tours, or under conditions and at times which are
mutually agreed upon by the faculty, administration, and the appropriate student organization.” A sentence was also added to the Philosophy
of Discipline stating that “complaints against non-student members of the community are the responsibility of the president and the Board
of Trustees.” Joe Murphy, student body president and member of the CRAP committee, said he was “not disappointed as long
as the report will be considered at the next trustee meeting and that meeting will be before the end of
school.”

OPENING UP THE LINES OF COMMUNICATION

Trustee Lawson Withers, students discuss college.

Most Non-Academic Wages To Rise By 15 Cents In July

Non-academic wages were raised in many jobs 15 cents an hour by the trustees ofEffective July 1, said College Treasurer
Robert A. Currie this afternoon. Cafeteria employees, however, were not included, and Currie said that the administration was “in the
process of reviewing their rates with their management.”

“Except for special situations, as of July 1 we will be at or above the $1.80 (federal minimum wage) rate,”
explained Currie. Federal law requires the $1.60 wage only in industry at present. The law applying to the college specifies
a minimum of $1.15 per hour and 50 percent extra for hours over 42 per week. In addition, the college
has set up job descriptions and minimum and maximum rates for each position, eliminating a measure of the bargaining for
wages.

The college has been paying 50 percent overtime to custodial-maintenance, laundry, and office employees since last July. Medical insurance with
increased coverage has been provided. Figures on non-academic wages are to be made available to fraternities, said Currie, as an
aid in planning next year’s budget. The college has “a need to meet area rates as quickly as possible, and
(we) feel that our proposals to the trustees will be doing so,” he said.

Special situations where the wage will not technically reach $1.60 per hour include laundry employees, “who remain on the payroll
during the summer, receiving a day’s pay for one or two days’ work.” This was done because the college felt
that it could not completely drop employees for the summer and employ them only nine months out of the year,
Currie said.

Currie expressed satisfaction that Davidson had not waited on its improvements in non-academic salaries as did Duke University. Delays at
Duke provoked student protests on behalf of the employees, seriously disrupting the university. Duke was at the time paying close
to the federal minimum of $1.15. Currie said that Duke was able to get away with this for so long
because of the lack of competition for labor.

By WALTER L. LINGLE JR. - Board Chairman

Board Delays On CRAP, Leaves ROTC Required Prior Exemption Policy Reinstated

By JIM COOLEY Associate Editor

Some changes in present ROTC arrangements were approved by the Board of Trustees this afternoon, but the basic status of
the program as a required course of study was left unchanged. The major change announced by Walter L. Lingle Jr.,
chairman of the board, was the restoration of a previous policy which allowed a student to be exempt from the
program through a request from the student’s parents made before the beginning of his freshman year.

If no such statement is received before the beginning of a student’s matriculation, he will continue to be required to
participate in the first two years of the program. Statements from parents are not required to give any reasons for
the parents’ objection to the program, Lingle indicated, but merely contain a positive statement that they do not want their
son to be required to take the program.

The board did not act on the recommendation submitted in the original Blue Sky Report that no academic credit be
given for the first two years of ROTC. It deferred the final decision on the matter to the faculty, according
to Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty. There seemed to be little doubt, Lingle added, that the revised program
would be accepted by the Department of Defense. Johnston further indicated that an attempt would be made to put the
changes into effect for the coming year. The attempt would require obtaining the permission of the Department of Defense to
waive a part of the school’s contract with the Army, which calls for one year’s notification before changing the program.

450 At Banquet In Martin’s Honor

About 450 persons, including trustees, faculty, students, and college personnel, were on hand tonight to honor President and Mrs. D.
Grier Martin at a dinner in Chambers Dining Hall. The dinner climaxed the annual spring meeting of the Board of
Trustees, the last meeting of Martin’s 10-year tenure in the Davidson presidency. Martin, the college's fourteenth president, will retire June
30.

Guests at the dinner included trustees, past and present, who have served on the board during Martin's administration; the entire
college staff; and a representative group of students. The short program included greetings from Trustee President Walter L. Lingle Jr.,
faculty members, and Tom Earnhardt, 1967-68 student body president. Dr. and Mrs. Martin were presented gifts by both the trustees
and the college staff.

Correction

THE DAVIDSONIAN erroneously attributed to College Treasurer Robert Currie a statement in the April 19 issue that “most non-academic employees
do not earn up to the $1.60 per hour federal minimum in industry.” The statement should have read that less
than one-fourth of the non-academic employees earn less than $1.60. Minimum wages, as set by law, are $1.15 for the
college. The college now pays the 50 percent overtime premium, not required until February 1969.

President D. Grier Martin will be honored Monday, May 13, at a luncheon sponsored by the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.
The appreciation luncheon, to be held at the White House Inn in Charlotte, will be attended by a number of
Charlotte business and civic leaders and Charlotte area Davidson alumni. The main speaker will be Harllee Branch of Atlanta, ‘27,
president of the Southern Company and a member of Davidson's Board of Trustees.
