Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1968

Case Of The Hidden $

If you gave money to the Negro scholarship fund drive last spring, don't worry just because you haven't heard anything about it. It’s resting safely in a state of limbo between collection and employment in the bank across the street. The money, slightly over $2,000, is deposited in the names of Larry Slade and Joe Murphy, two of the drive’s leaders, and apparently these two are planning to put it to use. Precisely how is still an open question, though.

The fund drive, prompted by a challenge from Dr. W. G. Workman last spring, was intended to raise enough money to award a full scholarship to a Negro member of the Class of 1973. Unofficially, though, it was to serve as a talking point for recruiting Negro students to come to Davidson.

In some respects the drive flopped. Some students who should have been its most avid supporters weren’t. The $2,400 needed to meet Dr. Workman’s challenge grant of $100 was not raised. No money was solicited from any faculty member. The class of 1968 did not give their Senior Class Gift to the drive, as they had promised. And no effort has been made this fall to collect those pledges which went uncollected last spring.

But there is another side, too. More than a third of the student body contributed to the fund, and more than a fourth gave five dollars or more. Besides being an indication of some student support, it demonstrates clearly that many Davidson students are willing to put their money where their mouth is. What we need now is a little more “mouth.”

Gary Henschen, director of student recruiting, has organized an ambitious program to present to high school students, including many Negro students. Slade, in turn, plans to get a list of outstanding Negro high school students. Only they have never bothered to mention their plans to each other. The need for coordination and cooperation is obvious. Only slightly less obvious is the need for many more students to put their mouth where their money is. Anybody who gave money to the fund drive should also be willing to spend a couple of hours visiting the predominantly Negro high schools in his town, if his motives were sincere in the first place.

Equally pressing is the need to follow up on last spring’s plans to seek foundation support for Negro recruitment. Six months ago, it seemed feasible. Why not now? The money is across the street, waiting to be used. And it can be used in a number of ways. As it is now, it’s certainly not doing Davidson's woeful admissions program any good.

So, Vote

We're not going to give you all that jazz about how it’s your right and duty to vote in the upcoming Senate and Residence Hall Council elections. The fact is, we don’t give a damn whether you vote or not. The old right-and-duty line is a lot of bunk. It’s just as much your right not to vote as it is your right to vote. If you choose not to vote at all, that’s your business.

But consider this: at least half the guys running for positions will undoubtedly be so much deadwood, if past elections are any indication. Some of them will get elected, too. Now we're not suggesting that your vote by itself will keep an incompetent out of office. But at least later on, when somebody’s cutting meetings and shirking his duty, you'll have the small satisfaction of knowing you voted against him.

Political Nothingness

We've been saying all along that a lot of Tar Heel politicians are saying nothing constructive this year, and this week we came up with some evidence to prove it. In the mail the other day was a news release from Bill Osteen, Republican candidate for Congress from the State’s sixth district. We know nothing about him except his political affiliation and the fact that he’s running against Richardson Preyer, who just happens to be chairman of the Davidson Board of Visitors. And we hold neither fact against him.

It was a typical political news release: up at the top an attractive red and black heading with a sketch of the American eagle. The candidate’s name in bold black letters. And his campaign headquarters’ address and phone number in smaller print. It was typical except for one thing: the rest of the sheet was blank. A campaign worker’s slip-up, no doubt. We have no way of knowing, of course, what Osteen’s release was supposed to say. And we don’t really care to know either. For if the words of other North Carolina candidates this fall are any indication, whatever Osteen might have had to say would probably have the approximate value of a blank sheet of paper.

Anties With Semantics

This is a year for name-calling. Any time a candidate can’t think of anything substantial to say—and this fall it happens every day—he cranks out some nasty little label instead. “Squishy soft,” “Fearless Fosdick,” “Tricky Dick” and “fourth-rate political hack” are a few that come to mind.

We wonder what would happen if we took the time to redefine two of the labels that are being bandied about quite a lot this year: “patriot” and “activist.” What if we decided, for instance, that a patriot was one who was not afraid to engage in civil rights demonstrations and other controversial activities because he felt the future of his country rested on his immediate concern and action? And what if we decided an activist was one who always takes the militant stand—against communism, hippies, demonstrators or anything else he disapproves of at the moment? Interesting twist of semantics? It points out how the emotive content of some common terms exceeds their rational content. We can always hope that people will be rational when they vote next month.

Where Hippies Shave

From The Greensboro Daily News

Fidel Castro is up to his cigar in trouble again. This time it isn’t capitalist jackals or Yanquis or even Russians. This time it's hippies. What? Hippies in Havana? Si! Even there. Teenage boys and girls are burning the Cuban flag, tearing down government posters, looking weird and generally exhibiting declining morals. Their behavior is un-Cuban and un-Communist. They are even destroying pictures of revolutionary leader Che Guevara who, ironically, is something of a folk hero to gringo hippies of the New Left.

Perhaps a youthful rebellion is to be expected in a country where the prime minister has a beard and wears old army fatigues, but Fidel Castro is upset. To combat the hippies he has taken some lessons from politicians and bureaucrats in the United States. First, he would require the teenagers to stay in school until they are old enough to calm down. For those who insist upon dropping out Castro has a General Hershey plan to order compulsory military service for boys between 14 and 17. That's fourteen years old. Finally, he is appealing for help from Cuba’s neighborhood vigilante groups called “Committees for the Defense of the Revolution.”

But why are there hippies in Cuba? What has caused the rebellion of the young? The other day Fidel Castro gave the answer to a mob of vigilantes. The young Cubans, he said, are victims of “imperialist propaganda.” Now where did we last hear an explanation like that?

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Beanie Rule Rapped; Yankees Like ’Dixie’

To The Editor:

This letter will take somewhat the form of a lament for the loss of reason and compassion from the student body on the issue of freshman regulations. I was impressed at first by the seeming enlightenment of upperclassmen here. But I see that it only took a couple of water fights to peel off the gentle veneer and expose a latent animosity. Joe Murphy is now quoted to the effect that if freshmen indulge in water fights, they should be made to wear beanies as a punishment. This may be the more politically tenable stand, three-fourths ofthe student body not being freshmen, but it is completely unreasonable. I simply submit (1) water fights were staged even in the days when freshmen wore beanies, (2) those fights were much more violent, according to the janitors, and, hence, (3) there is no relation between the wearing of beanies and the occurrence or frequency or quality of water fights. I therefore conclude that freshmen wearing beanies is not really a crime preventive measure, and that it should not be called punishment, but revenge. Let's call a spade a spade.

John McLean, ‘72
Davidson College

To The Editor:

Where was ‘Dixie’? The Pep Band did an excellent job on such snappy selections as ‘Mission Impossible’ and other songs designed to whip the crowd to a fever — but no ‘Dixie.’ Musically, ‘Dixie’ is a real emotion-raiser; if that isn't enough, then what has happened to tradition? This is ‘DIXIE’ — not the song of the rednecked Wallacite South or the carpetbaggers, but the song of Robert E. Lee's South; a reminder of the beauty that once was, but was ruthlessly destroyed by some of the most dim-sighted fools of politicians and generals in our country’s history. Traditions were broken last weekend; traditions which for the most part badly needed breaking. We were away last year and were gladdened at the sight of the ‘new’ Davidson upon our return. Maybe you didn't play ‘Dixie’ last year; we don't know. But please, as northern Davidsonians we beg you, don't give up ‘Dixie’!!

Michael L. Plante, Ohio, ’69
Kenneth Fuller, Conn., ’69
Cameron Ferguson, N.J., ’69
Davidson College

Sparrow Calls Blue Sky ‘Hoax’

To The Editor:

I get a little tired of hearing all this talk about Davidson's ‘new curriculum.’ Let's not be fooled. There is no new curriculum. School this year is mostly like school last year. School at Davidson is mostly like school anywhere else in the U.S.A. We still operate from the basic idea that some people (professors and authors) have a commodity (education) which they sell to us students in different packages (lectures, discussion groups, pages of reading, seminars, adding up to courses and credits). The ‘new curriculum’ is simply a new packaging plan for an old product, with a few optionals added to make it sell better. We continue to believe that the ‘search for truth’ is best carried on in seclusion and detachment. Diploma, grad school, corporation job are still the goals. We talk about breaking out but we have not seriously challenged these traditional ideas. We (I mean ‘we’ in an institutional sense) have not asked any basic questions about learning or the role of the college in our society. But this isn't a call for more studies. While out of school I learned something about change and how it happens. Davidson College committees aren't going to do it. I only say let’s not fool ourselves. The new curriculum is a hoax.

Marvin Sparrow, ‘69
Davidson College

Whipping Post
By BOB REID
Associate Editor

Revolt Of The Rednecks

“I’m going to vote for Wallace because he is the only real alternative to the present rotten situation.” This was not the twanged speech of a Georgia cracker, nor the slow drawl of a Louisiana farmer. It came from a college graduate who lives in the suburbs of Washington. And he would probably turn as red as some of his compatriots’ necks if he knew anyone recorded his conversation.

By now it is trite to say that George C. Wallace is the strongest third-party candidate since Theodore Roosevelt. In the last few months, the little man from Alabama has fulfilled his promise to shake the eye-teeth of the liberals. Perhaps his greatest victory came a few weeks ago when the New York Times, that great gray spokesman of Eastern liberalism, told the world that Wallace might poll more electoral votes than Hubert Humphrey. Were the election held today, some observers believe the fears of one Tennessee politician might come true: Humphrey would throw the election into the House. It seems Wallace and Nixon have awakened the sleeping giant that Goldwater never quite stirred. No doubt the press can claim a share of the blame. Too long have writers in New York and Chicago failed to realize that the Southern white as well as the Negro is a product of forces over which he had no control. The racist cop in Baton Rouge needs help just like the black sharecropper in Marks, Miss. But now the rube in Iredell County can make even the New York Times quiver. He can feel frustration just like the black militant. But unlike the militant, the poor white now has a spokesman whose voice is louder than any underground newspaper, and whose impact will burn longer than the fires of Washington. For as Eric Severeid once said, the New Politics is not that of Eugene McCarthy or Channing Phillips. It is of George Wallace and the radical right. For it is the right, not the left, that has a place on nearly every ballot in the country. It is the right, not the left, which threatens to outdistance the nominee of the largest party in the nation. Some say this is because the left is disenchanted and has dropped out of the election. But why did it leave? Because it was ultimately rejected by a nation which is marching “eyes right.” Those who say Wallace’s movement will be short-lived have not read the signs. The effects of the former governor will be felt, particularly in the South, for a generation. The first effect will probably be a great wave of support to abolish the Electoral College. That body which has long given disproportionate voice to minorities like the Negroes and the Irish now pays its due to the ‘redneck.’ And this is cause for alarm in many circles. For, of course, the reason Wallace stands to do well in the Electoral College is because his strength is concentrated among several states. In the long run, however, the Wallace surge has shown the world how shallow the progressivism of ‘The New South’ really is. For in North Carolina, once considered the most progressive Southern state, no politician dares speak disparagingly of George Wallace. The American Independent Party doubtless won’t someday replace one of the major parties. It may not even exist in four years. But it will not have died. Like the Progressive Party of an earlier era, its philosophy will implant itself into the system, for better or for worse. It’s time we prepared ourselves for this inevitability.

“It’s All Right, But I Wish You Had Chosen A Different Base.”