Jim Ackroyd and Ian Craig WILD GUITARS COUPLE WITH... ‘Dickens’ Blow Minds Of Hungry Patrons By DICK ANDERSON Asst. Managing
Editor

They wear long hair, Mao tunics, and bell-bottomed pants. They play so exuberantly that the listener is nearly blasted out
of the room. There are four of them, and they call themselves the Dickens. The short-haired member presently performing at
the Hungry i, is Zack Malmoli, the American in the group and the only girl. Jim Ackroyd, who is also
the leader along with lead guitarist Ian Craig, comes from the Canadian Midwest. Finally, there is drummer Lyndon Bulosky from
Blackpool in England.

“We call ourselves the Dickens because we didn't used to have a name,” said Bulosky, “and this reporter wanted to
know our name. So Ian heard this guy talking about the Pickwick Papers, which Charles Dickens wrote, and suddenly he
yelled out Dickens.”

“Yeah, it’s all a ridiculous thing Ian invented,” said Miss Malmoli, who is constantly bantering with Bulosky. Bulosky adds to
the group's costume a curious gold-and-amber medallion, which hangs on a long chain from his neck.

“My mother gave it to me,” he said. “It's a family heirloom. It's also a monocle for a fat German,”
Bulosky quipped, putting it to his eye and peering through it at the light. “It's a trip to look through
it, kind of an LSD substitute. One other thing. We all love our mothers,” Bulosky added. “And apple pie, and
the Canadian way,” Craig said.

Zack Malmoli ... STRONG PERCUSSION FOR PSYCHEDELIC SOUND

Southwestern Trustees Dump Freshman Rushing By BOB REID Associate Editor

The Board of Directors of Southwestern at Memphis this week banned freshman rushing and outlawed the blackball system in fraternity
and sorority chapters, climaxing four months of debate over the future of the Greek system there. The ban on freshman
rush will go into effect next September, and the rule on the blackball system will be installed the following year.

In response, the Interfraternity Council has submitted a letter to college President David Alexander, calling for delayed freshman rushing as
a compromise. “We are in agreement with the provisions on the junior general balling system,” said David Hurle. “But with
sophomore rush, some fraternities will really be hurting for money.” Hurle said he did not foresee any move by national
offices to revoke charters, although officials of the High Council of Alpha Tau Omega said there will most likely have
to be amendments in the ATO constitution to permit the Southwestern chapter to remain.

President Alexander told a meeting of fraternity presidents Monday night that Southwestern would subsidize chapters in order for them to
make the transition more easily. According to the new rules, every fraternity and sorority must show by 1969 that its
membership is not closed to any male or female student respectively. Election to membership will be based on an affirmative
vote of 90 percent of the chapter, and membership will not be contingent upon recommendation of those outside the chapter.
There will be no freshman rushing. The ruling climaxes four months of debate which began when a Negro freshman...

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

Within $400 By PAUL SCHNEIDER Staff Writer

The Negro Scholarship Fund has reached the $2000 mark, including $500 in pledges, according to Larry Slade, one of the
leaders of the drive. Slade and Rick Harrell head up the student attempt to raise $2400 as a scholarship fund
for a Negro applicant to Davidson next year. The campaign came in reply to psychology professor W.G. Workman's offer to
match $2400 raised by students with $100 of his own money for a Negro scholarship.

“I would personally like to see the entire $2500 awarded as an honorary scholarship to a particular Negro applicant,” said
Slade. The money is now in Central Piedmont Bank and will probably be given to the Senate. The Senate will
in turn decide what suggestion on its use will accompany it when it is given. Slade and Harrell expect to
send out a letter in about a week to remind those students who have not yet given their pledges.

Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, adopted on Monday a revised statement of information and guidelines for the
open dorm experiment to be held Saturday, May 11. An editorial in the March 8 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN charged
the college...Said Slade, with an admissions policy, students will be allowed to: The students intend to set short of tokenism
spark have female guests. in the up a committee to raise the Workman proposal. The dorms have been reduced from
eight to three hours. Slade said that Workman would give his $100 pledge if students raised the full $2400. As
now planned, the dorms experiment will be held from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in Duke and Richardson dormitories.

According to the statement, the designated dorms will be open only to the residents of the dorms, their guests, and
students willing to recruit. Some source outside the college will be the likely possibility for securing the necessary funds. Anna
indicated that she wants to see more faculty members take action. The open dorm experiment has been developed in response
to the traditional faculty open house, according to Residence Hall Council member Tom Opie.

Married students concerned over the lack of communication and organization in their meetings last week named themselves the Married Student
Council. The purpose of the group, according to organizer Hazel, a junior, is to make the adjustment to married life
easier for newlyweds and to provide a social outlet for all married students. Attendance at the meeting was poor, but
Hazel said the group felt its first meeting was successful.

The new council discussed, among other things, plans for a welcome wagon to greet newly married students and answer their
questions, and the possibility of expanded use of the lake campus swimming pool. Opie explained that the registration of guests
in dormitory reception areas would help the Residence Hall Council determine how much the dormitories are being used.

Opie was blackballed from Alpha Tau Omega in February following a dispute between the national office and the local chapter.
The Residence Hall Council has also requested that all students having guests in their rooms keep their doors open. Designed
as a self-enforcing code of responsibility, the guidelines will not be enforced by any method of patrolling for violations, but
violators that happen to be caught will be subject to punishment, Opie said.

The Davidsonian
May 3, 1968
Page Three

Negro Scholarship Fund Moves Goal Of Challenge

UNC psychology professor Harold G. McCurdy, a defender of the existentialist viewpoint in psychology and author of a textbook used
in Psychology 22, told an audience of 100 students and professors that behaviorism erred in not accounting for a self.
McCurdy’s approach allows for a disembodied self and accepts the normally-excluded idea that free will is a relevant psychological concept.

Married Students’ Council Holds Organizational Meet

The Board would welcome a married student representative to assist in social planning. The group will meet again next at
the Davidson College Presbyterian Church banquet hall.

SGA Regulations Court Finds Freshman Guilty

The Student Government Court Friday campused a freshman for one week for violation of the SGA regulation dealing with noise
in the dormitories. In addition, the court members placed the freshman on dormitory probation for the remainder of the year.
The case was referred to the court by the dormitory council members.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Pebble Stripes
Soft-spoken broad stripes, well-disciplined zephyr oxford. Elbow-length sleeves. Like all Gant shirts, Pebble Stripes has elan in a gentlemanly manner.
In varied colored stripings.
Bush Wilson, Ltd.
Greenville, S. C.
