ah: i* oe wa a edie ya Fe ‘ie Martin’s Many Faces Y main ‘8 Robert Sailstad To Take Duke Endowment Position Robert J. Sailstad, Davidson College director of Public Relations and Development, has resigned his post to become director of educational affairs and public education for The Duke Endowment. Sailstad’s appointment to his new job was announced Dec. 17 by Thomas L. Perkins, chairman of the trustees of the endowment. Sailstad will begin his new duties July 1 and will be associated with the Charlotte office of The Duke Endowment. Sailstad will be responsible for coordinating the endowment’s public information program and serving as an educational liaison officer and consultant for the beneficiary institutions of the endowment. Sailstad, who came to Davidson in 1951, has been director of Public Relations and Development since 1956. President D. Grier Martin, also resigning, called him “one of the finest directors of development and public information in the nation.” Martin pointed out that Sailstad would still be of service to Davidson, since the college receives 5 percent of the endowment’s annual grants.

Duke Endowment Gives Funds For Curriculum A special $100,000 grant from the Duke Endowment was largely responsible for Davidson's trustees accepting the Blue Sky proposals, administration sources announced last week. The trustees had postponed final decision on the proposals on the grounds that the college could not afford such sweeping changes in the curriculum. However, with the announcement of the grant on Dec. 20, the trustees gave their unanimous approval to the proposals. In announcing the grant, Davidson President D. Grier Martin said, “The Duke Endowment trustees have once again strengthened a specific and crucially important part of Davidson's educational process.” The grant will be used to finance operating costs for the first year of the Blue Sky program but will not be used to endow the program, according to Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston.

Reaction (Continued From Page One) were more reticent. Dr. J. A. McGeachy Jr., professor of history, and Dr. W. O. Puckett, professor of biology, declined to comment on Martin’s resignation or on the possibilities for his successor. Dr. A. B. Brinkley, associate professor of philosophy, said, “I am sure that all the faculty regret the personal reasons which brought President Martin to his decision. He has been a staunch defender of academic freedom and has provided leadership for the great gain the college has made during his administration in enlarging and strengthening the faculty, in increasing the physical and financial resources and in the continuing development of the educational program.” Among members of the administration, Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty, said, “Davidson has prospered and improved during the decade of President Martin’s leadership. He is more responsible for its recent progress than is anyone else, and we shall all miss his leadership.” Johnston added, “It had been to me a constant personal delight to have had the chance to work intimately with him. For me, Davidson College will not be the same—or as good—without him.” Alumni trustee Harllee Branch Jr., president of The Southern Company, Atlanta, Ga., declined to comment directly on Martin's resignation. He did say that he knew before today that Martin was considering leaving his post. Another alumni trustee, Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of Mary Baldwin College, said he was surprised at Martin's resignation but said that any comment from him would be premature. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, immediate past president of the Board of Trustees, said that he had not known about Martin's resignation until asked to comment on it by THE DAVIDSONIAN. He expressed his regret at learning of Martin's resignation and said that he suspected his resignation was for health reasons. Richards said he had understood that Martin had been in ill health recently.

Prof. Beaty Dies After Long Illness Professor Ernest Albert Beaty, who taught German, English, Latin, and Italian at Davidson for 40 years, died Dec. 15 in the Huntersville Hospital after a long illness. He was 69. He was born in Lancaster, S. C., and was graduated from Davidson in 1921. After receiving an MA from the University of South Carolina, he studied theology at Columbia Theological Seminary and later earned another master's from Columbia University. He also studied at the University of Munich, Germany. After teaching for a year at the University of Tennessee, he joined the Davidson faculty in 1925 as a professor of English. He held the W. R. Grey Chair in Latin and German when he retired in 1966. Beaty was also active in community affairs, serving as mayor of Davidson from 1940 to 1953 and a member of the Mecklenburg county commissioners. He was also an elder in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and a trustee of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.

Sunday Night Open House The following homes will be open this Sunday at 8: Brinkley 420 N. Main Burts 431 N. Main J. Minter Churchill Dr. Wolf 204 Woodland

Finances (Continued From Page One) not be as large as had been planned, Bondurant said, but faculty salaries will continue to increase. Funds from outside sources, including the major $100,000 grant from the Duke Endowment, are coming in to provide the operating budget for the Blue Sky programs for next year. However, “it is a long road to endowing the Blue Sky changes,” Bondurant said. He estimated this would require between five and six million dollars. The Duke grant will pay for theextra cost for the first year, Johnston said. New secretarial help and other staff or administration personnel will not be added next year in the move to economize within the college budget. The Board of Trustees approved the financing measures at their Dec. 20 meeting. They postponed a decision on Blue Sky ROTC recommendations until the May meeting, while accepting the other proposals. The new calendar will include three terms, with students taking three courses each of the first two terms and two courses the last term. A three-track system including an honors college and making provision for independent study will begin when funds become available. A learning center providing for programmed learning with tapes, films, and other learning aids will be established, but it is at least a year in the future, commented Robert J. Sailstad, director of development.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
THE CELLAR
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30-11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30-11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
BANDS — WED., FRI., SAT., SUN.
Show ID Cards
300 E. Morehead St.
Charlotte
Never Over $1.00 Cover
Behind Conder Soda Shop

Davidsonian
Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Page Two
January 3, 1968

The President's Impossible Job

When President D. Grier Martin walks out of his office for the last time this June, the college will be losing a man whose dedication to the college has been demonstrated many times during his affiliation with the Davidson community. In his resignation he modestly credits everyone but himself for the improvements that have been made in the school during his tenure in office. Few of those familiar with the college’s development since 1958, however, would be willing to deny him credit for its growth. It is no mere coincidence that the physical plant has been expanded greatly during these few years. Nor is it just a coincidence that the endowment has doubled.

Martin was never one to be showy about his accomplishments. Therefore, much of his work was not recognized as being very spectacular. It was just taken for granted that Martin would raise the money for everyone’s pet dreams. And he did. With the extremely able help of Robert Sailstad, director of public relations and development, he was able to fight successfully in the increasing competition for the educational dollar. In addition to his ability to secure new funds for the college, Martin was very successful in finding the most efficient allocation of the resources available to the college. Along with Robert Currie, treasurer and business manager, Martin was able to stretch the college’s dollar so that students could receive a better education than that which is available at other schools with larger endowments.

Martin was not ostentatious about these achievements. This modesty, however, was not the only reason that he was not given all of the credit he deserved. Recognition for the excellent job of administration he performed for the college was often lost in charges that the college lacked academic leadership. Criticisms of this kind were more publicized than was praise of his administration. It was ill-treatment of a man who worked tirelessly for the school. The charges were true, but it was not the fault of Martin or of Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston. Ministering to the school’s immediate physical needs is such a demanding job that it saps away the energies that might have been otherwise devoted to academia.

Adoption of the Blue Sky Committee’s proposals will not take care of the school’s academic needs. As the college is presently organized, it is physically impossible for either the president or the dean of the faculty to focus his energy on the constant review of curriculum that is needed. Therefore, when the trustees start their search for a new president, they should consider just what it is that they expect the president to do. If they want someone to administer the college, that is a perfectly desirable and necessary objective. But they should try to help that man achieve that goal by taking him out of a position where his worth is short-changed by criticisms that he is not doing something that is physically impossible for him to do. Instead of being content to see a man work his heart out for the school, trying to do something that he should not be expected to do, the trustees should create a position of provost or dean of the college. This man would then have definite responsibility for the job of providing what is nebulously termed “academic leadership.”

President Martin was extremely interested in students. Yet during his 10 years as president the pressures of his work seldom left him time to go out on the campus to see and talk to those students. Creating the position of provost would make it possible for the administrator to administrate without subjecting him to unwarranted criticism. The trustees will have enough trouble finding a man to be as good a president of the college as Martin has been without trying to put the new man into an impossible job.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 332-2414

Pipe Smoker (Faculty and Students)
This ad, with your Davidson ID card, will entitle you to a 20 Per Cent Discount on pipe (only) purchases.
michel i:
217 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 28202

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.