Davidson And The South (Last of a Series) By RUSS MERRITT Sports Writer

Today, Davidson College has come to a crossroads in intercollegiate athletics, and possibly the whole future of the sports program depends upon which route Davidson chooses to follow. If it so decides, Davidson can keep driving straight ahead down the rocky path of the Southern Conference, bound for a probable dead end in athletic advancement and improvement. By staying in a weakened and dying conference that restrains a championship caliber basketball team, rolls over the Wildcats in certain other sports, and contributes very little to the schedule of most Davidson teams, Davidson would face an athletic future more frustrating and fruitless than in the past.

A second possible choice is that Davidson withdraw from the Southern and join a more suitable league, such as the surrounding Carolinas Conference. Already more Carolinas Conference teams (plus Pembroke, St. Andrews, Wofford, and several other area small colleges) play Davidson College in athletic events than Southern Conference members, and these small schools match the Wildcats with surprising results. Davidson could not help but profit in every sport but basketball if participating in the Carolinas. The minor teams (everything but football and basketball) would be playing in a league with equal ability and scholarships while the football team would be playing fine small college squads, such as Lenoir Rhyne, second-ranked in the nation. Furthermore, and realistically, considering the size of the student body and the number of scholarships issued, Davidson is a small college and should be playing a small college schedule.

As for the basketball team, “we would do everything that we possibly could to try to let your school continue to compete in the NCAA against the type of opposition it's capable of playing in basketball,” remarked H. C. Hawn, Commissioner of the Carolinas Conference. “I'm really not in the position to make promises that Davidson would be free of conference regulations in basketball, but it might be arranged,” he said. In other words, there is a possibility that Davidson could still compete in a conference atmosphere with all the conference advantages and on its own level and yet be able to play basketball as an independent. “If something like that is possible," said Virginia sportswriter Marty Horne, “then Davidson would have the ideal set-up." Dick Hammerstrom, a Charlotte writer, was even more emphatic. “It would be one helluva improvement over life in the Southern, wouldn't it?”

The third route that Davidson can follow would be to join the growing ranks of once-discontented members of conferences across the nation that have become more successful as independents. Among these colleges are Georgia Tech, Tulane, and ex-Southerners Virginia Tech and West Virginia. By becoming an independent, Davidson would forfeit its privileges as a conference member, such as assured schedule, respectable officiating, and post-season play in the NCAA tournament or a minor bowl. Davidson, however, could fill its sports schedules easily (especially since there are not that many conference games to drop) and would have no trouble finding officials. An at-large bid in the NCAA tournament or even a bid to the NIT could easily be earned by a basketball team such as the Wildcats have, and the other sports probably would not win an NCAA berth through the Southern anyway.

By becoming an independent, Davidson would be just that — independent. Free from all the scheduling regulations, the rulings, and the continual mismatches, both for and against us, the Wildcat basketball teams could play the likes of UCLA, Kentucky, Villanova, and Notre Dame instead of Furman, VMI, George Washington, and The Citadel. The football team could meet and play on even terms with Lenoir Rhyne, Appalachian, and Western Carolina instead of Richmond, William and Mary, Virginia, and Vanderbilt.

The effect on the conference if Davidson were to withdraw would be harmful, of course. Several sportswriters and conference officials have already expressed concern over the potential impact.

---

Fogleman, Players Are ‘Dissatisfied’ By CHARLIE TERRELL Sports Writer

The Wildcat soccer team began this season with high hopes of winning the Southern Conference title. Last Saturday, however, their hopes vanished in defeat at the feet of The Citadel. The team must now concentrate on achieving a winning season, a task which is made difficult by a tough remaining schedule. Despite two goals of its own against The Citadel and one which a Bulldog player contributed to the cause, the team was unable to sustain the attack and lost, 5-3.

Coach Fogleman was visibly upset and said, “We played very badly.” He blamed the morning loss only on the team. “The players can't party all night and expect to play their best the next morning,” he said. “We played like we were dead.” Fogleman was not the only one upset with the play. The mood was echoed by most of the players. “The whole season has been disappointing,” said one player.

---

Davidson Hosts VMI

A few years ago the Davidson football team broke a long VMI losing streak. With an 0-7 record this season, VMI is hoping it will happen again tomorrow. The Keydets bring tough offensive threats to the game in halfback Bob Habesevich and fullback Chuck Marks. The defense sports a top-rate pass interceptor in senior defensive back Kerr Kump. Davidson is behind in series play 27-13-3.

---

Coach Outdoes ‘Cat Trackmen By DON PARMAN Sports Writer

Assistant Cross-Country Coach Sterling Martin stole the show for the Davidson cross-country team at the state meet Monday. Martin crossed the finish line in the open division of the Raleigh meet in fourth place, five seconds faster than Stagg Newman who led the team in the varsity division. The team finished a disappointing tenth in a field of strong competitors.

---

Sporttopics

Davidson will meet Maryland in the first round of this year's Charlotte Invitational Tournament, Dec. 27-28. The defending champion Wildcats will meet the Terrapins immediately following the Wichita-Texas game, with the winners of the two contests meeting the following evening in the championship game. In the Maryland game, Davidson will be facing Will Hetzel, brother of former Davidson All-American Fred Hetzel.

The Gordon Slade-Mike Kelly duo continues to rise in the national rankings, in spite of the fact that the Wildcats have played one less game than most other schools. Slade ranks third in passing in the nation with 124 completions, while Kelly is tied with Florida State’s Ron Sellers for sixth in receiving, with 47 receptions. Slade has the highest completion percentage among the top passers.Completion percentage of the nation’s top 20 passers, passing at a .606 clip. Kelly tops the top 10 receivers in touchdowns, with eight in six games.

In an upset victory last weekend, the Davidson sailing team toppled Duke's sailors, as junior skipper Jim Lee won five out of six races. The win moves the team into the semi-finals of the South Atlantic Sailing Association’s team racing championships. Skippers Lewis Riley, Bob Haggard, and Dan Johnson also performed well in the meet.

The Independents scored an all-time first Wednesday as they routed the Pi Kapps 31-6 in the battle of the IMAC flickerball cellar-dwellers.

Coach Tom Stevens welcomed back several stars from last year’s swimming team as the tankmen began practice last Monday. Returning to the small squad are record holders Mac Davis and Jack Steele. A few promising freshmen are also out for the team. Coach Stevens said that he would appreciate anyone who has swimming experience or is interested in swimming competitively to go out for the team.

Duke finished first, chased by East Carolina. Jay Rowe of ECU took the individual championship in an upset of defending champion Ed Stenberg of Duke. Newman was singled out by both Coach Heath Whittle and Martin as turning in another fine performance. Martin called him “the workhorse of the team, who always works hard to improve.”

Also turning in good performances were Reeves Lauthan, Randy Phillips, and Chris Sikes. The Wildcats now turn their attention to the Southern Conference meet at East Carolina on Monday. William and Mary is the heavy favorite, with ECU, Furman, and VMI expected to finish ahead of Davidson. Whittle is counting on beating Richmond and says a good effort can top VMI.

Martin said that he hadn't planned to enter the race but did because “the boys egged me on.” Earlier in the season he had run with the team in practice, but he hadn't worked out for several weeks before the meet. As a Davidson cross-country runner, Martin was an all-Southern Conference selection in 1960-61-62. He was captain of the team his senior year. In the varsity division of the meet, he took seventh place as a sophomore, fourth as a junior, and tenth as a senior.

Junior Randy Carter said, “We have more potential than we have shown.” Bill Horton, a junior wing, agreed. “We should be 9-0 now, but we have never really played as a team," he said. He added that the offense has not been consistent enough to present a formidable scoring threat. Freshman goalie Steve Culbertson said the team's record could have been better. He adds that the team is weak on goal kicks, starting an offense, and maintaining ball control. “We just don't get enough shots,” he said.

All of the comments came before Wednesday's 4-1 loss to Duke. In that game, Davidson's play was more consistent, but the team was hampered by injuries and slowed by illness. Team captain Cliff Patterson sat out the game with an ankle sprain which he received in the Citadel game on what he called “a routine block play.” Wing Roger Paterson played in spite of a virus infection which had knocked him out of practice this week. Davidson's only goal came on an inside shot by Carter. He took a pass from John Bruner directly in front of the goal and slapped it in. Carter said after the game that the offense against Duke was “great at times but sloppy at others.” The loss to the Blue Devils lowered the Wildcats' season record to a disappointing 4-5-1, and the remainder of the season is not easy. The team meets Emory University this afternoon at 3 p.m. at the Davidson soccer field. Next week the team plays Appalachian before the state meet in Raleigh next Friday.

Officials feel that the SC would lose its automatic bid to the NCAA basketball tournament just as the Yankee Conference did two years ago. Besides the loss in prestige and power among the other NCAA conferences, the Southern would stand to lose a bundle in the Southern Conference basketball tournament. The conference tourney, which is the high point of the year for the Southern, has been held in Charlotte for the past four years and will be played there for at least the next two. Without Davidson as the star of the show, the tournament would be a great financial flop.

A poll of the varsity coaches of several of Davidson's athletic teams shows that they feel it is about time to leave the beaten trail of the Southern Conference and drive on to greener pastures and a more suitable route elsewhere. Representing the tennis and soccer squads, coach Harry Fogleman feels strongly about making a change. “It may help other teams, but the Southern Conference still doesn’t do much for my squads. Most of my soccer schedule is against area small colleges, while in tennis I like to play the big Eastern and Midwestern powers. I've even had other coaches laugh outright when I've told them that a team of mine won the Southern Conference title.”

It goes without saying that Lefty Driesell, Davidson's successful basketball coach, would be very pleased to see a withdrawal from the Southern Conference. Davidson's rise to national basketball fame would move much faster with the Wildcats playing more worthy competition, as well as drawing more fans and money.

Tom Stevens, head coach for the swimming and baseball teams, feels that “the conference hasn't helped our swimming program at all. It really doesn't make any difference in swimming, because we just can't compete on the level of this conference.” Most of the 10-meet schedule consists of ACC teams and area small colleges. “In baseball,” Stevens continued, “Davidson is the only school in the conference that does not subsidize. Even the Carolinas Conference teams give more scholarships, and they play real good baseball there, possibly better than the Southern.”

“It really wouldn’t affect my team one way or the other if we left the conference,” said wrestling coach Charles Parker. “All that the conference offers that we wouldn't have as independent is the tournament.” Parker also said, “Although I wouldn't want to wrestle in the Carolinas Conference, there are several other good conferences that would be suitable.”

The majority of the Davidson College coaches agree — it is time that some improvement be made in the school’s sports program, that some changes for the better be made concerning the intercollegiate athletic affiliations. And the first step toward bettering the athletics at Davidson College appears to be withdrawal from the Southern Conference.

THREE BULLDOGS EAT A WILDCAT
Citadel defenders swarm over Davidson ball carrier Mike Kelly.

Citadel’s Veteran Offense Tramples Weakened ‘Cats
By BOB WALLACE
Sports Writer

A veteran Citadel offense dominated third-quarter play and tallied for three seven-pointers to hand Davidson its second Southern Conference loss, 28-21. Utilizing what has come to be known as the Houston offense, The Citadel kept pressure on Davidson's defensive front throughout the afternoon. With variations off the “dive play” as the predominant offensive weapon, the Bulldogs had a total of four sustained drives in the second half.

Wildcat assistant coach Dave Fagg, who works with the defensive unit, praised the team for a tremendous football game, especially in the area of effort. He singled out Steve Butler and Lew Homer. “They were making tackles even on the opposite end of the field from their position,” he said. Fagg emphasized that key personnel changes in the defensive unit throughout the game allowed for some weakness. He also stated that the Wildcats let the big play hurt them. He cited as an example The Citadel's 58-yard aerial which resulted in a Bulldog score. “Our boys had three clean shots at the receiver before he broke loose.” The defensive mentor also listed interceptions by Whit Morrow and Nick Dumich as highlights of the afternoon. “They were phenomenal interceptions, and another indication of the effort and spirit our boys displayed against the Citadel.”

Listing tackling as the predominant weakness of the Wildcat defense, he pointed out, “A team like The Citadel can blood it once or twice a week without worrying about injuries to key personnel since they just move up another man. But since we do not have as large a team, injuries resulting from hitting in practice could be fatal.”