AN HOUR REGAINED

Sunday will be a 25-hour day when the nation returns to standard time early that morning. Clocks should be set
back an hour to allow for an extra hour of sleep that night, making up for the hour lost last
April.

Sanford To Talk Tuesday

Terry Sanford, national chairman of Citizens for Humphrey, will speak in assembly Tuesday as the first of a new lecture
series at Davidson, the only one on campus sponsored by a social fraternity. Sanford was to have been the running
mate for Senator Eugene McCarthy, according to an interview with the Minnesota senator in the Miami Herald in August. Sanford
was also rumored to be John F. Kennedy's choice for vice president in 1964. Sanford was known for his emphasis
on education when he was governor of North Carolina.

The lectures, to be sponsored several times yearly by the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, will be named the Martin Lectures
in honor of D. Grier Martin, former president of the college and an SAE while a student at Davidson. The
fraternity is seeking to raise $10,000, primarily from alumni of the fraternity, to sponsor the series. Charles F. Myers Jr.,
also a former SAE at Davidson and now president of Burlington Industries, is serving as honorary campaign chairman. Sanford will
speak at 10 a.m. in Love Auditorium.

The lectures are an outgrowth of the “Blow-Up” series sponsored by SAE at Davidson last year, “born out of a
concern that the social fraternity become seriously involved in the life of the college community," according to Bill Smythe, one
of the program's initiators. The “Blow-Up” series met with such success that the fraternity decided to perpetuate them in honor
of Martin, Smythe said. He described the aim of the new series as “designed to expose all Davidson students to
wider ranges of opinion and personality.”

Sanford was elected to the Davidson Board of Visitors a year ago. His law partner, Hugh Cannon, is a Davidson
graduate and an alumni member of the Board of Trustees. Tuesday will be the first time Sanford has spoken on
the Davidson campus since he left the governorship.

SAMPLE

For President and Vice-President

1. To vote this ballot, make (X) for whose names you wish to vote.
2. A vote for the candidates is a vote for the electors, the names of whom are on file with
the Secretary of State.
3. If you tear or wrongly mark this ballot, return it and get another.

Mark Within This Circle For President and Vice-President of The United States:
HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
EDMUND S. MUSKIE

General Election November 5, 1968.
State of North Carolina.

To Vote for Candidates Listed Below

DAVIDSONIAN
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1968

PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES

DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLICAN
AMERICAN

Mark Within This Circle For President and Vice-President of The United States:
RICHARD M. NIXON
SPIRO T. AGNEW

Mark Within This Circle For President and Vice-President of The United States:
GEORGE C. WALLACE
S. MARVIN GRIFFIN

Chairman, State Board of Elections

Wednesday Vote Tests Candidates’ Popularity

A straw vote to measure the appeal of the three major presidential candidates among Davidson students and faculty will be
held next Wednesday. Also on the student Senate ballot will be places to designate party affiliation, college class, and probable
preference of parents. Polls will be open in the lobby of Chambers from 7:50 a.m. until 2:40 p.m.

Inside THE DAVIDSONIAN this week there is extensive coverage of the campaign and the candidates. On the feature page, Professors
Jon W. Fuller and W. E. Jackson, who debated last week in chapel on Nixon and Humphrey, discourse some more
on their favorite candidates. A staff member makes a case for Wallace. Senior Chuck Green, a political science major and
politics buff, ventures out on a limb with a state-by-state prediction of how the voting for President and other key
posts will turn out next month. The issues—or lack of issues—in the campaign are explored by Associate Editor Jim Cooley.
And on page two, THE DAVIDSONIAN takes a stand on a presidential candidate.

Boards’ Selection In The Works

Selection of the student and faculty members for the five advisory boards outlined by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. two
weeks ago will be announced next week. The faculty last week elected 10 members, and Dean of Faculty Frontis W.
Johnston is expected to name the other five by early next week. Johnston will also appoint each of the 15
professors to a specific commission. Over 140 students had signed up by yesterday morning to be considered by the student
Senate for appointment to one of the commissions. The deadline was last night. The Senate will make the appointments at
its meeting next Tuesday.

The commissions on Coeducation, Social Patterns, Church Relationship, Extra-Campus Responsibilities, and Intercollegiate Athletics will each consist of three trustee members,
three faculty members, three students, and a staff member. Trustee Chairman Walter L. Lingle, who will appoint the trustee members,
is expected to announce his selections soon.

Senate-Like A General’s Staff Briefing

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON Managing Editor

The president leans back and twirls what might have the potential for a good handlebar mustache were it black. “Wellllll,
I'M telllling you what,” he muses slowly, but notices another senator enter and leans forward to count the quorum. But
it is in this former football player “Jock” Murphy that the power of student government is concentrated—not so much by
virtue of office as by personality. Senate meetings revolve around the president, for his appointive power, his position as chairman,
and his forceful personality mean that in a certain realm, he is absolute. Murphy hasn't managed to get any new
legislation through the Senate as such, for despite its authority, the Senate will not assume the responsibility for enacting anything
the least bit controversial. The Code of Responsibility raised scarce student opposition, and few are the students who object to
more coke machines in the dormitories. But an act to require students to...

Senate Raises Miscellany Budget, Provides For Court

By DANNY WHITE Staff Writer

The SGA Senate approved Tuesday a student activities budget including a controversial $1,038 increase in appropriations for the Miscellany and
also voted to amend the CRAP Report to provide for a student Court of Appeals. The budget total of $28,600
for student activities is an increase of $1,648 over last year’s budget of $26,952. The budget supports the activities of
the Quips and Cranks, THE DAVIDSONIAN, The Miscellany, the Wildcat Handbook, the SGA, and the Artists Series. The biggest increase
in the budget came in the area of the Miscellany, which requested $3,515 for the 68-69 year—$1,038 over last year's
budget. The Senate had tabled the entire budget for a week to enable Miscellany Editor George House to explain the
reasons for the increase. House pointed out to the Senate that if the Miscellany is to maintain its current level
of...Excellence, the monetary increase is essential. House outlined his plans for the distant future to make the Miscellany a national
self-sustaining literary publication along the lines of the Sewanee Review. If this is to come about, the budget would have
to be increased this year. Following House's remarks, the Senate decided to leave the Miscellany increase in the budget and
subsequently approved the entire budget as it had been proposed by the Senate Finance Committee. The Senate then discussed the
amendment it had proposed the previous week to insert the student Court of Appeals between the College Regulations Court and
the Faculty Executive Committee in judicial proceedings (See SENATE, Page 6).

Students who give reviews to remain in the infirmary 24 hours received only four votes, including Murphy's. But if the
SGA Constitution meant for the Senate to be a legislature, it seems no one ever told Joe Murphy. Senate meetings
resemble an army general's staff meeting more than any deliberative body. Of course, that problem may be due to the
Senate's not having matured into the role envisioned for it, for it is still pint-sized and lacks the 12 more
senators needed to attain its maximum membership. But it is Joe Murphy who (See ANALYSIS, Page 6).

(Staff Photo by Lyle) ‘NEGRO, NOT BLACK’ Ellison describes his heritage.

Expected to announce his appointments shortly. The commissions were detailed by Spencer in his inaugural address Oct. 11. Their purpose,
Spencer said then, is to “answer certain unanswered questions.”

MSA Obtains Charter
By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

The Married Students Association gained official recognition last week when it was granted a charter by the Student Government Association,
said Phil Hazel, president of the M.S.A. The main purpose of the association is to improve the quantity and quality
of the married students’ housing by presenting the college with concrete proposals from a recognized part of the college community.
At present, there are seven college houses available for the 20 married couples. “We cannot blame anyone for the existing
conditions since the married students have never before officially asked the college for aid, nor have they given any facts
or specific proposals,” Hazel said. “We plan to meet with President Spencer in the near future to discuss the problems
and proposals of the association with respect to housing,” Hazel said. Hazel has designed an apartment house with 20 units
which can easily accept additional units when the need arises. “The college badly needs additional guest housing facilities. With our
proposal, the college could construct a building which would (See M.S.A., Page 6).

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE: A POOR DEAL (See Page Five)

NUMBER FIVE

AT LONG LAST
The Southern Railway's longtime refusal to place crossing signals on Griffith Street ended this week. There have been no major
accidents at the crossing since Dr. Donald Plott, Male Chorus director, was injured in a wreck there several years ago,
but there have been some close calls. (Staff Photo by Lyle).

Pep Band Urged To Drop ‘Dixie’
By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

The Wildcat Pep Band has dropped ‘Dixie’ from its repertoire for the second time in three years in response to
objections from students and at the advice of basketball Coach “Lefty” Driesell. The ban on “Dixie” was requested by Driesell
earlier in the month in a memo to Band Director Sam Aycock. Driesell and football Coach Homer Smith said that
the song should not be played if it was “offensive to anyone,” Aycock said. When “Dixie” was dropped in the
fall of 1966, Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics, cited objections from some students and alumni. The action drew criticism
and a petition circulated by several Northern students, and eventually the song was reinstated by Dave Hoag, the band's director.
Also banned with “Dixie” in 1966 was the Confederate flag that flew atop the gymnasium. The flag has never been
returned, and the position remains vacant. “Dixie,” long considered the Confederate national anthem, was actually written by a Northerner, Daniel
Emmett, as a cakewalk number for his New York minstrel show. Confederate soldiers adopted the tune as a cadence call,
and it quickly became the symbol of Southern defiance.

S’western Following Suit?
Another Southern, Presbyterian, liberal arts college has decided to allow drinking on its campus. Opening its doors to John Barleycorn
last Saturday, Southwestern at Memphis apparently conceded its inability to enforce the existing rules which prohibited the possession of intoxicants
on campus. The college stated that the students would still have to obey the state and city laws. The new
rules were the result of study by a student-faculty committee which took about a year. Other recent action by the
Board of Directors of Southwestern established student-faculty committees to look into other areas and thus give students a greater voice
in college policy.

Bob Scott To Win In State — Minter
By BOB REID
Associate Editor

Democrat Bob Scott will be the next governor of North Carolina, according to Dr. W. P. Minter, chairman of the
Political Science Department. “My impressions are that Bob Scott will get it,” Minter said. “They've (Democrats) got a broad base
of power in this state.” Although Hubert Humphrey probably won't run well in North Carolina, local Democrats will probably survive.
Minter said, “In local races so many candidates are running that the public doesn’t know them,” he said. “The winners
will be the ones who have the most money or who are incumbents.” Most of the latter are Democrats. Because
of the complex nature of the national political scene, state candidates have been silent on many issues. Rather than taking
stands on local issues, most have spent their time harping on matters that have little to do with North Carolina.
“Many local candidates have to subject themselves to national issues,” Minter said. “Gardner (Scott's Republican opponent) figures Wallace may poll
more votes than Nixon here, so he tries to identify himself with Wallace by saying the present leadership can't even
win a two-bit war.” In order to win, Scott has shied away from the national ticket and has sought to
divorce his stand from that of the party platform, Minter added. Although Wallace will probably run well in North Carolina,
his effect on local parties won't be far-reaching. “Wallace is a phenomenon of this election,” Minter said, “and I don’t
think his party will take root in North Carolina.”

Ellison: U.S.A. Mixture Of ‘All Colors, Beliefs’
By CECIL BURNEY
Staff Writer

“I’m very proud to be a part of the Negro American cultural heritage.” This is the way that novelist, essayist
and “sometimes teacher” Ralph Ellison describes his position in society. When the Reynolds Lecturer was asked why he considered himself
a “Negro” instead of a “Black” during an informal coffee hour and question-and-answer period yesterday morning, he said, “I am
a Negro because my parents and grandparents were Negroes. They fought very hard for this identity, and they tried to
make the term ‘Negro’ mean something honorable and respectful.” Ellison, speaking in the Morrison Room of the College Union after
a lecture in chapel, stressed that he has never been ashamed about being a Negro. Instead, he emphasized an “American”
heritage which peoples of all colors and beliefs have inherited and of which he feels Americans should feel proud. “When
I turn inside of myself, I run into such things as the Bible, Shakespeare, folklore stories, Melville, nursery rhymes, Peter
Rabbit, and there are a lot of people in there, all recorded on my mind as a part of a
continuing tradition,” he said. Ellison's agenda during his two-day campus visit also included a talk at Philanthropic Hall Wednesday and
a reading and discussion that night in the Morrison Room. Speaking about the current trends of whites trying to become
more like Negroes and Negroes more like whites in hair styles, clothing, dancing, and other mannerisms, he said, “Whites have
been pretending to be Negroes for a long time from Eddie Cantor and Al Jolson putting on black make-up for
their minstrel acts up to the more recent trends. Negroes have been trying to pass for whites for a long
time, too.”
