Weekend Weather
Clear and cold tonight with a low of 23. Tomorrow fair and warmer, with a high of 54. Sunday variable
cloudiness and cool. Probability of precipitation near zero.

ROCKY TAKES A ROAD TRIP (See Page Five)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1968
NUMBER SEVENTEEN VOL. LVI

8 p.m. Concert
The Lettermen
Love Auditorium

10:15 p.m. Coffee and donuts
College Union lobby

1 p.m.-1 a.m. Movie “Arabesque”
Morrison Room

MIDWINTERS '68
How To Keep Warm

FRIDAY
1:30-3:30 a.m. Concert
The Grimm Brothers
Morrison Room

2:30-4:30 a.m. Breakfast
College Union Cafeteria

SATURDAY
8 p.m. Concert
Spanky and Our Gang
Love Auditorium

10:15 p.m. Dance
Ben E. King
Chambers dining hall

2 a.m. Concert
Steve Gillette
Morrison Room

3 a.m. Coffee and donuts
College Union lobby

SATURDAY HEADLINER
Spanky to entertain.

SGA Created: Council To Get Election Plans 203-64
Adoption Comes After Intense Campaign
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Assistant Managing Editor

Students Wednesday adopted the first new constitution since 1896 by a decisive 503-64 vote, creating a Student Government Association (SGA).
The new constitution, which establishes a Bill of Rights and replaces the Student Council with a 23-member Senate, was approved
by 89 percent of those voting, well over the two-thirds vote needed for adoption.

Adoption came after an intensive campaign by the Student Council and the Constitution Revision Committee. Meetings at fraternity houses, endorsement
by the faculty Student Life Committee, and freshman hall meetings preceded the vote. While the polls were open, members of
the Constitution Committee went through the dormitories to get students to vote, and announcements were made in the College Union
during meals. The draft which was approved was the product of 10 months of work by the Constitution Revision Committee.

Committees List Qualities For Ideal Next President
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Managing Editor

The next president of Davidson should be:
—A man “preferably not of the present faculty or staff.”
—A man “who appreciates the value and necessity of money.”
—“An active churchman with a vigorous Christian philosophy of life.”
—A family man whose wife has grace and charm.

Those are among a list of 16 personal and professional qualifications suggested to the trustee selection committee Monday by its
six-man faculty advisory committee. In making its suggestions, the faculty committee at the same time emphasized it realized no man
could meet all the qualifications. “Obviously, there is no ideal man,” the committee said in a letter to the rest
of the faculty, “but hopefully the man chosen will have many of these qualities in a large degree, and most
of them in a satisfactory degree.”

Following its meeting with the faculty committee, the four-man trustee selection committee met with its student advisory committee, which also
presented a list of recommended qualifications. The students’ recommendations for the most part echoed those of the faculty, with a
few notable differences. The students stressed that the new president did not “necessarily have to be a Davidson graduate,” whereas
the faculty did not mention his undergraduate background at all. Noting the president's broadening responsibilities, the students also suggested the
creation of another administrative position such as provost or vice-president “to share the workload of the president's office.”

Neither student nor faculty committee has begun discussing individual candidates, according to Student Body President Tom Earnhardt and Faculty Committee
Chairman W. G. McGavock. At Monday’s meetings, the committees limited themselves to discussion of the president's qualifications and the responsibilities
of the two committees, they said. The functions of the faculty committee will probably be outlined further at the next
meeting, in early March, McGavock said.

In its list of qualifications, the faculty committee also recommended a man between the ages of 40 and 55—unless he
had “extraordinarily strong compensating qualities.” A man “wholly committed to academic freedom” and who is friendly, creative, and self-confident—“but who
recognizes that Davidson College is bigger than he is”—was recommended by the faculty. Both committees have urged suggestions concerning the
new president from either the faculty or student body be submitted, in writing. “Students submitting names should give as much
background information as possible, or source of information,” the student committee said. “All names will immediately be sent to the
trustee committee.”

By STEVE LEE
Staff Writer

God is “not a repressing force, but a liberating one,” said Dr. John B. Cobb, this year’s Otts Lecturer, yesterday.
Cobb, who teaches at the School of Theology at Claremont, California, spoke on Wednesday and Thursday evenings and at a
voluntary chapel on Thursday morning on the topic “The God Who Has Died and the God Who Lives.” Despite his
title, Cobb's viewpoint admittedly has little in common with “death of God” theologians except for his agreement with their criticism
of traditional Christian language and symbols connected with God. This criticism, he feels, is generated primarily by the failure of
traditional language to communicate effectively in the modern world.

Saturday, February 17
All day and all night
Midwinters

2 p.m. Basketball
Davidson vs. George Washington

Sunday, February 18
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service
Lingle Chapel

Up ‘n’ Coming
Monday, February 19
8 p.m. Movie
Eric Soya’s “17”

Tuesday, February 20
7 p.m. French films
Love Auditorium

8 p.m. Travel film
“Adventures in Switzerland”
College Union

Wednesday, February 21
6:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball
Davidson vs. Richmond
Johnston Gym

8 p.m. Basketball
Davidson vs. Richmond
Johnston Gym

Thursday, February 22
10:20 a.m. Chapel
Dr. Thomas Molnar
Love Auditorium
Brooklyn College and Long Island University

Faculty Criteria Draw Criticism

The personal qualifications for President D. Grier Martin's replacement suggested by the Faculty Advisory Committee have been criticized by a
Rump Committee on Seriousness of Purpose, Concision, and Precision at Davidson College. In a memorandum to the faculty, the Rump
Committee, claimed to consist of the college’s janitorial and custodial staff. Efforts by THE DAVIDSONIAN to determine the authorship of
the report were inconclusive. None of the custodial personnel questioned, however, admitted to having had any part in preparing the
memorandum.

Decrying what it calls the “levity and, indeed, the hilarity of the original report,” the memorandum suggests a different set
of personal qualifications:
“1. A Presbyterian scholar who is also a Christian.
“2. A Presbyterian scholar who can get and spend money.
“3. A Presbyterian scholar who is sexually potent and married to Jacqueline Kennedy.
“4. A Presbyterian scholar whose last name is Spencer.”

Negotiation with Dr. Samuel Spencer, president of Mary Baldwin College and an oft-mentioned candidate for Davidson's presidency, is said by
the memorandum to be the purpose of the “Trustee Committee.” Although the memorandum does not specify which trustee committee it
is talking about, it implies that it is the trustee committee which is to nominate to the full board Martin's
replacement.

One faculty member commented today that he thought the effect of the Rump report might be to solidify support for
Spencer among people who might view it as an unfair attack upon him. Another faculty member said, however, that he
viewed the report, not as an attack upon Spencer, but as a satirization of the criteria suggested by the Faculty
Advisory Committee.Appointed last April by the council, the committee was instructed to draft a completely new constitution. A preliminary draft
was presented in December and the final draft in January. Under the new form of government, legislative power is vested
in the Senate, executive power in the Senate Executive Committee, and judicial power in three Courts. The Honor Court continues
in its present structure and role, the regulations court is replaced by a 7-member Student Government Court, and a Court
of Appeals is created with duties resembling a supreme court. The Bill of Rights guarantees students the right to “significant
participation” in the formulation and application of college policy, the right to free inquiry and expression, and the right to
due process in trials of serious nature. It also provides for search warrants to search a student's room or vehicle,
and allows a student to close his college records.

Jam * All The News That Fits, We Print

For years the editors have wanted to slant the news without trying to disguise it, and at last, we've done
it. Pages Three and Four —THE DRIBBLESON. (AN, News And Editorial Voice of Sam Boll are a satire on Davidson,
news the way we would write it if facts were irrelevant. Any resemblance to the truth is coincidental, for it
is only the product of editors’ fancy.

Pledges Receive IFC’s Warning

Pledge class rivalries have exceeded the limits of "good clean fun" according to various Interfraternity Council members. The IFC this
week issued a statement warning against the nighttime looting of fraternity houses by the newly-pledged neophytes of rival fraternities that
has been common in past years. Bobby Vagt, IFC vice president, noted that furniture had been destroyed in several houses,
and said that the IFC Judicial Board would be called in to enforce any further cases of looting and destruction
if the houses involved wish to make formal complaints. Furniture from various houses was deposited in other houses. Other furniture
at one house was jammed into the basement stairwell. Several chairs and couches at the house were damaged by the
movement.

By-Laws Get Airing On Monday

The by-laws for the new constitution will be proposed to the Student Council in two steps, according to Mike Bates,
chairman of the Constitution Revision Committee. By-laws dealing with elections and the oath of office are to be presented to
the council Monday, and the other sections when the committee completes them. Election by-laws are to be presented earlier, Bates
said, because of the pressure of impending elections. According to Franklin Anderson, secretary of the committee and co-chairman of the
by-laws subcommittee, election by-laws will probably include several innovations in elections, pointed mainly toward streamlining the process. An exhaustive ballot
and a new system of breaking ties, known as the HCS system, will likely be recommended, he explained. The exhaustive
ballot works on the basis of ranking candidates instead of straight voting, and eliminates the necessity for extended run-offs by
combining the run-off and the regular election.

Deans, Trustee Discuss College

By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Two deans and a trustee discussed Davidson's future under the Blue Sky provisions with about 30 students in a two-hour
session Wednesday night in the lobby of the College Union. Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, Dean of Students
Richard C. Burts, and Trustee William A. White discussed next year's academic schedule, student social life, student participation in faculty
committees, and subsidized athletics. Johnston said that putting students on faculty committees would be a mistake. “I don't think the
students have earned the right to run the college,” he said. White, however, termed the students “intelligent observers of the
life of the college,” and said, “The trustees listen to intelligent advice.” Johnston endorsed students serving on certain faculty and
trustee committees in an advisory, non-voting capacity. Rick Harrell, president of Kappa Alpha, criticized the college fraternity curfew regulations, terming
them “absurd.” He said that forcing dates to leave the fraternity houses at night and forbidding the consumption of alcoholic
beverages at the houses had led to the death of some fraternity members in traffic accidents. However, Burts said, “This
is a compromise situation. It is necessary to have a curfew to satisfy the public relations aspects of the situation
and also necessary to have curfews late enough to avoid placing undue restrictions on anyone's enjoyment.” Johnston also said that
subsidized athletics will be continued at the planned levels of moderate increase for at least the next few years. “I
think subsidized athletics broaden the witness of the college,” said White, referring to the college's Christian Commitment.

Dean Burts Answers Charges

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, target of severe criticism from senior Joe Bentley in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, said Wednesday
that he and Bentley had different understandings of the school’s examination policy. In a letter to Bentley this week, Burts
requested a conference to work out misunderstandings between the two. Bentley, in a letter to the editor last Friday, charged
Burts with a “hands-tied” policy on re-examinations. However, Burts said, “I'm acting under the general framework that has been set
up by the faculty executive committee.” He also said that he was not intruding on the executive committee's territory, as
has been charged.
