Che. Mavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson N. C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief
MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

PAGE TWO

Where The Girls Aren’t

The spectacle of hundreds of girls at Davidson for Homecoming, distracting as it is, brings to mind one girl’s reaction to a Davidson weekend, as recorded two years ago in the Winston-Salem Journal. The Journal was taking a poll on “where the boys are” and how the girls who dated there rated the guys. As we recall it, we fared pretty well in the overall survey, but this one girl—a Carolina coed—had a particularly perceptive bit of analysis.

“Dating on campus for a big weekend there,” she said, “is like going out of a quiet room into a world of hungry people just released from strict diets—a definite frantic effort to raise hell and get their money's worth.”

She’s right, you know. We are hungry—for fun, for companionship, for a little reality... for a lot of things. And what we need is a steady diet of girls, not just weekend samples. Coeducation is the thing now—everybody's doing it. For instance, Sewanee—which hurts for girls worse than we do—is admitting 50 of them next year. Lafayette’s going coed, and Princeton appears on the verge of doing the same. Even Vassar, that bastion of femininity, is doing it. She shafted Yale last fall, to be sure, but she’s back on the prowl again, casting coy glances at Williams and Wesleyan.

There’s hope for us, too. For years Davidson officialdom has pooh-poohed the idea of coeds here, but recently girl-talk has become more fashionable. In fact, in a college publication no less official than the booklet detailing the needs for the new library, the possibility of Davidson coeds is cited right there on page one.

Davidson needs girls. Academically, they would contribute new viewpoints and new competition. And socially... Well, we need to learn to judge a girl on criteria other than the color of her dress, the length of her hair, and how much she puts out. A coed set-up would be ideal, but if that is not feasible, we'll settle for a coordinate campus. The recent remark by a Vassar official that a coordinate system would probably become a “cold system” leaves us undaunted. We'd like to try it anyway.

The Library (Cont'd)

The ink on last week’s editorial column had hardly had time to dry before a couple of concerned readers pounced on us with postscripts to our comments on the site of the new library. One was a student who helped count the ballots in the student poll on proposed locations two years back, and he reprimanded us gently for misreading the results.

“You make it sound like the Lingle Manor site was one of the choices the students could vote on,” he said, “when in a way it wasn’t.

“The ballot had sketches of three sites—in front of Cannon and East dorms, across Concord Road, and in front of Little—but Lingle Manor was only one of several ‘other suggested’ locations at the bottom of the page. The make-up of the ballot itself might've influenced a lot of students to overlook the Lingle Manor site, and you should apologize for not pointing this out.”

We apologize.

The other comment came from a professor, and it constitutes another reason why the library shouldn’t—or should—be located at the manor site, depending on how you look at it.

“This whole business of using a possible coordinate girls’ campus to the north to justify a Lingle Manor site just doesn’t make sense,” he said. He pointed out that a lot of the land along State Road 115 is not owned by the college—contrary to popular belief—and we probably wouldn’t want to put a girls’ campus so close to the road anyway.

The college-owned property, he said, is actually that beyond the Beta and Sigma Chi houses, where a lot of the intramural fields are, and “if we put the other campus there, then all the girls would have to walk through the fraternity court every time they wanted to go to the library—and that’s undesirable.”

Hmmm.

Two People
By TIM KIMREY

In THE DAVIDSONIAN Feb. 12, 1965

I see when you arrive for the weekend you are already tired from your trip, but you are lovely. You kiss me matter-of-factly, but there is a promise in your eyes and a smile that longs to be smiled alone. At the dorm, Janie French will take your three dollars and let us know that she remembers that you have been here with me before. She smiles on lovers. I will show you to my room, and I am secretly proud when you tell me that it looks nice. You will leave Chanel on the pillow, and I will be sad on Sunday.

In Rochester, there was a little boy named Sammy. He was a Negro. He would not speak, except when he pulled on my sleeve and said, “Got a nickel?” His eyes were always half-blank, half-questioning. I remember first meeting him fighting with another child. I pulled him away and picked him up. All he did was open his mouth as wide as he could and utter a silent scream. I carried him home on my back, and he peed in his pants.

On the front porch of his house, his mother sat with her legs spread while she cleaned the meat out of the shell of a huge turtle. The blood dripped off the porch onto the dusty yard where two near-naked urchins played with another turtle shell. Sammy was crazy.

At the dance, you will wear your dark green silk dress, and your hair will be long. We will move slowly to the music muted by a thousand intimate voices. Your shoulders are white, your ear cold against my cheek. You look up with wet, happy eyes and pass your lips—quietly, softly—across my chin. For a fleeting second we are alone in the crowd and I am filled with wonder and with love.

The newspapers are filled with evidences of our guilt. Birmingham. Bull Conner & Co. pride themselves on keeping order with firehoses and cattle prodders. Negroes are beaten, and the Klan cheers. And still they come. “Keep your eyes on the prize, hold on.” Philadelphia. The three workers lie rotten in a shallow grave—victims of fear and godless hatred. They will not be tried for murder, not Rainey and Price. “Life” runs a full-page photo of smiling Sheriff Rainey, his mouth full of “Red Man” chewing tobacco. Little Rock seems so far away—a long, bloody way away. “Ain't no black s.o.b. gonna stink up my children’s school!” “Kill ‘em! Kill ‘em!” A single Negro looks into the mad crowd of white faces that are ugly with fear and hatred. “NIGGER,” they scream. His head bows. “NIGGER! NIGGER! NIGGER!”

They lay very still on the blanket. In the distance they could hear the gaiety and laughter of a party. The moon’s hazy brilliance cast a pale blue light through thick pines, interrupted only by an occasional strand of silken cloud.

“It was wonderful.”
“Yes.”
“What are you thinking about?”
“Nothing.”
“Tell me.”
“Nothing.”
“Are you thinking about love?”
“Yes.”

She turned slowly toward him. Her soft hair fell across her forehead.

“Why are you crying?” she said.

Ad Hoc Committee Blasts ROTC; Conscientious Objector Differs

To The Editor:

We, the undersigned members of the Ad Hoc Committee for Voluntary ROTC staged last Tuesday a demonstration to call attention to our conviction that ROTC should be made voluntary at Davidson, voluntary in the true sense that those who wish to take it can, not that those who do not wish to take it must run a series of hurdles which include persuading one’s parents that they “object” to one’s taking ROTC.

In support of our conviction, we call attention to the following:

(1) The faculty has on separate occasions indicated its conviction that ROTC should be made fully voluntary.
(2) The visiting committee at the time of our re-accreditation, a group of unbiased observers, made the same recommendation.
(3) The Blue Sky Committee, the report of which has supposedly been implemented, made this recommendation.
(4) The question of the morality of the military is open enough that a college which purports to be Christian should not force even one facet of this decision onto its students.
(5) The call for voluntary ROTC is not identical with the call for its banishment from campus (although this call is also voiced by a minority of the Ad Hoc Committee’s membership). It has yet to be demonstrated that the ROTC program would not survive on a purely voluntary basis.
(6) Even if it followed that mandatory ROTC (more or less the present system) is necessary for the ROTC program’s existence, is it fair and just to require it of a large number of students who at the very least are unenthusiastic and possibly even find it morally distasteful, for the sake of those students who wish to have it?
(7) It is inconsistent with Davidson's dual goals of academic excellence and the education of the whole man to requireof students even the smallest amount of time for a program that does not supplement these goals. We find the argument that ROTC teaches leadership is hollow in the face of the fact that the first two years, the required portion, teach only following and obedience. Time spent on map-reading and taking apart an M-1 rifle can surely be spent in a more worthwhile manner. We feel that the above arguments are more than sufficiently persuasive. We call on the student body to support us, on the faculty to insist upon its own expressed wishes, on the administration to listen to reason in the voice of the faculty, and on the trustees to listen, reflect, and act. Negotiation on the termination of Davidson's ROTC contract with the U.S. government should begin now.

Cary Tucker, '70
Paul Schneider, '69
Gerald S. Vigna, '72
Stephen Hall, '71
Bob Wood, '71
John Thacker, '70
Robert N. Grady, '69
James Voorhees Edwards, '71
Ashton D. Trice, '69
George C. Robinson, '70
Will Ravenel, '71
Mac Calhoun, '71
John M. Cox III, '72
Julian Quattlebaum II, '72
Norwood C. Poland, '71
Bill Moye, '71
Mike Roth, '72
Rob Krehbiel, '71
John Pancake, '69
Marvin Sparrow, '69
William Farris, '70
Kurt F. Geisinger, '72
Ken W. Wallace, '69
Michael Norris, '69
Ray English, '69
Sam B. Johnson, '69

Davidson College

To The Editor:

In light of the "mandatory ROTC" protest today, with its meager display of opposition (in which I did not participate), I would like to voice my opinion of the present ROTC system. Being a C.O., I was exempted from ROTC as were other students who for various reasons chose not to participate in ROTC and brought with them to Davidson requests for excusal signed by their parents. I believe that the present system is generally good, in that any student who has a strong desire not to participate in ROTC can demonstrate this desire to his parents, who will usually honor his convictions and furnish the required letter.

This system, however, overlooks the one remaining case—the student who has strong personal objections to the regimentation, conformity, and time demanded by ROTC, and whose parents, in an attempt to discipline an "unruly" son, refuse to write the required request for excusal from ROTC. In this case, the forced external conformity can only cause bitterness and rebellion, as well as strain further the already troubled parent-child relationship, examples of which I have already witnessed.

Nonetheless, I believe it would be better for the students involved to be given the option of taking ROTC as a non-credit, non-academic course, and thus remedying this as well as other more apparent ills of the present system, rather than turn out even one of these bitter, and therefore "not-so-well-rounded," Davidson Gentlemen.

Bart McCormick, '72
Davidson College

Stephen Salyer Praises Humphrey, Attacks Liberals For Non-Support

To The Editor:

It is understandable that those who supported candidates other than Mr. Humphrey in the earlier portions of the campaign, specifically on the Vietnamese peace issue, should be concerned and angry that none of the three candidates appears to represent an absolute opposition to the war. It would follow that this same group should be hostile to the efforts of the vice-president during the campaign. But for all the logicality of this position, is it realistic for these same persons to continue their opposition and help elect the man liberals in both parties have fought for years: Richard M. Nixon? I think not.

Closely associated with Mr. Humphrey has been the word "inconsistent." Repeatedly he has been viciously assailed for failure to disassociate himself with the Johnson administration’s Vietnamese policy. Mr. Humphrey is the only candidate, however, with any possible justification for a wavering position. He has been a part of an unpopular administration and to be "his own man" is an almost impossible task. Mr. Nixon has no such excuse. Yet, totally inconsistent as Nixon has been, it is Humphrey who is heckled and jeered; it is Humphrey whom the media have carefully pulled "apart at the seams."

Richard Nixon has been out of the public arena for six years and has had the opportunity to shed his more odious qualities and again emerge as "the new Nixon." Before Miami, Nixon said the war in Vietnam could be won, causing the media to term him "Hawk." Sensing the unpopularity of such a position, Nixon quickly altered his stand to one of "mum is the word" and waited for the convention. Then, in a move aimed to achieve that great unity of Republicans, Nixon forces joined hands with those of Rockefeller to push for the so-called "dove plank" of the Republican Platform. Lately, "Tricky Dick" has simply not said much one way or the other about this question, or on any other for that matter.

I suspect those who have been the most ardent critics of HHH had best look at the alternatives and then work like hell to reverse the tide that seems likely to put the most inconsistent and second most undesirable candidate of those running in the White House.

Stephen Salyer, '72
Davidson College

Cox Characterizes P.E.: Sophisticated, Ingenious

To The Editor:

I publicly commend the Physical Education Department of Davidson College for the outstanding job that they are doing. I refer specifically to the ingenious means by which members of the freshmen class who failed the physical fitness test are taught and encouraged to do better the next time. These Wretched Physical Failures begin each class with an invigorating jog around the soccer field. The instructor, a truly compassionate man, seeing that the group is a bit winded after the previous activity, allows the W.P.F. to walk to the next instrument of physical betterment. The rapid reuse of the same set of muscles ensures that a goodly portion of lactic acid builds up within these muscles. For the faint-hearted among the faint-hearted, the instructor had friendly words of encouragement. With this encouragement, the W.P.F. might successfully ignore the pleas of his body for simple things like oxygen and strive onward.

The purpose of the W.P.F. Education Program is of course to build within the W.P.F. such a deep and abiding hatred of the aforementioned activities that the W.P.F. will give a supreme effort on the next physical fitness test and thus enable himself to participate in more civilized activities. Again let me, Wretched Physical Failure that I am, thank the Physical Education Department for their sophisticated, intelligent effort to make me a more complete human being.

John Cox, '72
Davidson College

"Political Patent Medicine"

To The Editor:

"I guarantee that this medicine (my administration) will clean up acne (the streets). I pledge it (I) will kill germs and fight bacteria (shoot all protestors).

"It (I) will restore your hair (states’ rights). It (I) will put muscle into your bodies (into the country).

"It (I) will give added power to you (the police). It (I) will halve your headaches (taxes) and double your wisdom (money to schools).

"It (I) will increase the longevity (productivity) of your lives (industries).

"Look at this Indian (Alabama)—what a specimen (Utopia)—and for only six weeks (years) has he been taking this remedy (it had me as governor).

"Would you please pass up your money and orders (vote for me on election day)."

Kurt F. Geisinger, '72
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

We welcome letters to the editor. Letters will ordinarily be printed in that week’s edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN if they are received by 6 p.m. Tuesday. Letters should be typed on 65-space lines, triple-spaced and not exceeding 250 words. The editors reserve the right to hold letters for later publication if adequate space is not available. The editors also reserve the right to condense and/or cut letters and to correct for newspaper style, punctuation, grammar, and spelling.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

WHY DID I CHOOSE YOU?

This is a handy questionnaire for the weekend. Both you and your date should fill one out, mainly to determine what’s what.

PART A—For Men Only

I invited her to Homecoming because
—she does
—she might
—she was the only date I could get

Now that she’s here
—I’m snowed already
—I think she’s a pig
—it’ll be kiss and tell

She’s got
—a great body
—a great personality
—all of the above
—none of the above

Tonight we're going to
—get lots of sleep
—grub

Sunday afternoon
—won’t be here soon enough
—will be too short
—I may not make it till then

I (will, won’t) invite her back for Mid-Winters because
—she’s a good date
—she did
—I’m not that much of a masochist

PART B—For Women Only

I accepted his invitation to Homecoming because
—he wouldn’t!
—he will
—my best friend talked me into it

My date is
—a lizard
—terrific
—O.K., but...

Davidson guys, in general, are
—sex-starved
—gentlemen
—snobs

If he mentions driving out to the lake at 4 a.m., I
—won’t object
—will pretend I have a headache
—will pray that nobody from school sees us

I plan to be back for Mid-Winters, because
—he thinks I might next time
—we’re pinned
—are you out of your tree?