= College Offers Some Advantages, But Marrieds Exist Outside It =

(Staff Photo by Weems)

SENIOR JOHN ROE AND WIFE EMILY RELAX AT HOME
Emily's school teacher duties keep her busy while John studies.

Married Life In Davidson Unglamorous, But Amusing
By TODD HOSBIE
Staff Writer

Little glamour is to be found in the history of married students at Davidson, but there are some interesting stories
and facts. During Davidson’s first hundred years, married students were rare. Occasionally there were one or two married students, but
they were not typical. A married student, for example, up to the 1930s, might be a man who at a
late age had decided to go into the ministry and needed to take some extra courses. This rare breed of
married students took a drastic decline toward the end of World War II. Many students returned from the war married
and accommodations had to be provided. Prefabricated structures were erected in the area which is now the parking lot across
Main Street from the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, and quickly got the name “Cardboard Village.” A few of these structures
are still in existence today.

According to Scripts ‘N Pranks’ 1947, summer edition, life was a real challenge in “Cardboard Village.” It is said that
on a very windy day your hat wouldn't blow off until you walked into your apartment. This wasn't so bad
though, because it made it easy for the wives to clean plates after meals. All they had to do was
scrape the scraps through the cracks in the floor. This in turn fed the chickens that often roamed about under
the apartments, according to the stories of the day. Several years after the war, the number of married students declined.
But the presence of married students did not return to a state of rarity. There have been a substantial number
of married students and several married students’ organizations since the war.

M.S.A. Working Toward Housing
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

Last month's chartering of the Married Students Association (M.S.A.) marked a new era in married life at Davidson. Prompted by
a desire for social contact with other married students, the organization should also make the growing number of married students
a more potent force in the college community. The charter represents the culmination of a process started last May, when
the idea for an organization was brought up at a married students’ supper at the college church. It was decided
at that time that the organization would be postponed until this term so that those students who were getting married
in the summer would have a voice.

This summer a steering committee composed of Tom and Jean Cottingham, Charles and Martha Eakes, Phil and Nancy Hazel, McLean
and Lee, and Linda Wallace set to work on two projects to help newly married students. Martha was in charge
of contacting merchants to see if they would donate gifts for a Welcome Wagon. Charles and Martha also published a
directory containing information about living expenses, where to find living quarters, etc. The M.S.A. became a reality when the married
students met in October and adopted a constitution. The group elected Phil Hazel president and Martha Eakes vice-president. Since then
Hazel has met with Dr. Spencer to discuss married students’ housing. In addition to its housing efforts, the M.S.A. is
working toward a community playground. The young marrieds have also tentatively scheduled a Married Students’ Follies during the spring term
to raise funds for the playground.

The Davidsonian
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

I was greeted at the door by Martha Eakes, attractive wife of Davidson senior Charles Eakes. She was flanked by
one very energetic young lad on a tricycle and a female toddler known as “the baby.” We were soon joined
in the living room by father Eakes, who was recovering from a rather vigorous football game “with the boys.”

“Very few people really understand the situation of the married students,” said Eakes philosophically. “The administration treats us as if
we did not really exist, the students have very little contact with us, and the townspeople consider us part of
the college.” The Eakes live in a house which is owned by the college. “Yes, we are fairly satisfied with
our house,” said his wife, “but this does not mean it could not be improved greatly. There is no heat
in our bedroom, and the kitchen leaks when it rains, but I guess we cannot expect the college to undertake
major repairs on such an old house. We just wish the college would take strides to remedy the entire situation
of married student housing.”

Eakes expanded on this somewhat: “We want the administration to quit being indifferent to the married students,” he said, “and
be objective about the situation. Either they encourage students to get married, at the students’ own expense, or they discourage
it. It's as simple as that. They should make a decision, and take appropriate steps from that point.”

In general, the Eakes’ attitude is typical of that of most married students at Davidson. According to Phil Hazel, 26-year-old
Davidson senior, the married students are in “a state of limbo.” Davidson men consider them a part of the town
because they live over there, and townspeople consider them a part of the college because they are still in school.
Students are quick to point out the advantages of being married, though. “Life is simply more natural,” said John Roe,
recently married senior. “You don’t have to live for the weekend, from one expectation to the next. Life is more
balanced and enjoyable. Besides that, being married gives us a chance to do more things together, like camping, sailing, going
to fraternity parties, and attending events at the college, which we could not do previously because of infrequent time spent
together.”

The chief handicap for some is children. “It is hard to get babysitters at prices we can afford,” said Martha
Eakes. “Although we attend all the football and basketball games, we otherwise limit ourselves to two or three big outings
a year.” Mr. and Mrs. Tom Cottingham have found a good solution to this problem during the daytime. “We take
our son to the Mt. Zion Nursery during the day,” said Cottingham. “He seems to enjoy it immensely, and this
gives my wife the opportunity to hold a full-time job in Charlotte and me some quiet study time in the
afternoon.”

The number of married students at Davidson is unknown to most. At the end of last year, there were 41
married students. There are presently 21 in the student body, seven of whom have children. Three more will get married
during Christmas vacation. Finding something to occupy the wives seems to bother several students. About half of the wives have
regular jobs. One is a social worker, another is an elementary school teacher, and others hold various positions.

More Americans Marry Younger Than In Almost Any Other Culture
By DAVID SWEATT
Managing Editor

A greater proportion of Americans marry at earlier ages today than do the people of almost any other culture of
the world. The average age of marriage in the United States has been on the decline since before the turn
of the century. Part of this gradual move to younger marriages has included college and university students across the country.
The tendency for college students to get married became noticeable about the time of World War II and increased greatly
in the wake of the hostilities. The Korean War brought another resurgence of the tendency with the part-time jobs of
post-war prosperity playing a large part, particularly among the urban, commuter colleges. It was prosperity continuing into the Sixties that
has sustained the level of student marriages. In addition, middle class and upper class parents have shown themselves more willing
to support married children in college in recent years.

Sociological surveys have turned up some consensus among college marrieds regarding their situation. Most look on marriage as a stabilizing
influence. They believe that marriage combined with college encourages cooperative adjustment to each other’s roles. But there are negatives as
well.

Housing: What Is The Solution?
By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

If Sam Spencer...Robert Currie and Phil Hazel agree on one thing: the need for better housing for married students. Each,
however, approaches the problem in a different way. Hazel seems to be asking the question, how many units is the
college or a private investor willing to build? Spencer's question: What should the college's philosophy and approach to the problem
be? And Currie's: What is it going to cost and who will pay?

President of the Married Students Association, Hazel is proposing a minimum of 20 apartment units to be built by the
college or by a private investor under some control by the college. He points out that after Christmas, there will
be 24 married students at Davidson, that the college has only eight apartment or housing units available for rent, and
that these units are inadequate from several standpoints. Hazel said that the actual building of the apartments was “two years
off at best. If we can present the college with our proposal by the end of the school year, we
will have done what we meant to do.” Hazel said that he and other members of the Married Students’ Association
will submit a written report detailing the number, size, floor plan, and location suggested for the proposed apartments. He added
that this report would be submitted about the same time as the report from the five study commissions.

Proposals for future housing aside, the main problem with present housing is “maintenance,” Hazel said. He said that those married
students who rent privately owned real estate find it “difficult to get landlords to move.” But for those eight who
rent from the college, “the college does a great job on maintenance,” he said — that is, if you know
whom to call, the college sends a repairman. Hazel said that in college housing — the four units in Jackson
Heights or “Cardboard Village,” located on Griffin Street; the two-family duplex where Hazel lives on Main Street; and the two-family
apartment house on Concord Road — the problem is heating. Cost of housing rented privately or from the college runs
from a low of around $45 a month for an unfurnished apartment to a high of around $90 for a
furnished apartment.

Apparently, housing is available for married students, since all but three couples now live in the town of Davidson. But
in the context of Hazel’s remarks, availability should not be equated with desirability nor adequacy. At the end of last
year, however, when Davidson had 42 married students, couples lived in Cornelius, Mt. Mourne, Huntersville, Mooresville, and Charlotte. Hazel has
already taken the MSA housing proposal to President Spencer Jr. Spencer said that he thought that Hazel's proposal was well
thought out, but he added that because of limited experience in the area he could make no judgment yet on
the economic soundness of the proposal.

In dealing with the problem of married student housing, “the fundamental question is the extent to which the college has
responsibility,” Spencer said. “This could be answered in three ways,” he said: That the college has no responsibility and discourages
student marriages; that the college recognizes the continued existence of a group of married students as a stable part of
the social and economic pattern of the college community; that student marriages are too few and the college should encourage
more of them. “From each of these would flow different answers to the practical questions,” Spencer said, “but I think
we can eliminate the third one.”

Most married college students experience financial hardships; most feel they are unduly pressed for time in their day-to-day lives. The
arrival of children before they were desired is not unusual. After all the pros and cons have been said, however,
it appears that campus marriages are to be a permanent part of most college campuses. Supporting the rationale of this
trend is evidence brought to light recently regarding satisfaction with housing, economic conditions, and the study situation. The married students
came out better on all three factors than did their single classmates. The whole student marriage trend is not surprising
in light of recent physiological and psychological evidence in support of the claim that today’s 18-year-olds mature more rapidly than
those of earlier generations. Physically, today’s young men and women mature almost two years earlier than in 1900. More important,
perhaps, is the evidence which suggests that this earlier physical maturity is matched by emotional and intellectual development. So, relatively
speaking, today’s young man of 18 is two years older than his 18-year-old counterpart of sixty-eight years ago. Maybe those
early marriages aren't as early as they statistically appear.

Under the present rules, a student wife can take one course a term at Davidson, at an expense of $160
per course. While many praised the cultural advantages of the college, they said the town was relatively dull, and the
townspeople made little effort to incorporate them into the community. Finances are a limiting factor for activities, but no one
saw this as a major problem of being married at Davidson. “A family can get by on as little as
$150 per month,” said Cottingham, “but the average family spends about $300 a month.” Roe said the low cost of
living in Davidson makes life a little easier too. Eakes expressed the real advantage of being a married student. “If
a couple is extremely unhappy when they are apart,” he said, “it is a tremendous psychological advantage for them to
be together. Our years at Davidson are probably the best of our lives and we want to experience them together.”

Jay Schimmel evidently feels at home in the library. Jay Schimmel wants films, lower doorknobs.

By AL JASPER
Staff Writer

Jay Schimmel, the true symbol of the class of ‘69 and son of John and Karen Schimmel, was found at
his usual seat in the library recently and consented to an interview for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

“Jay, do you like living off campus?”
“Oh, yes. I find I'm close to the library, Union, and Chambers. After all, I credit living off campus with
John and Karen (I always call my parents John and Karen) with the improvement in my speech and physical growth.
That’s a pretty good answer for a three-year-old, eh?”
“Not bad. What about girls?”
“Well, I don't exactly go for the Playboy set, but as John once said, you're never too young to start.”
“What plans do you have for next year?”
“I plan to continue my education at either Baylor or Vanderbilt Med School. Of course, I'll take John and Karen
along to take care of the house.”
“Has the change in the drinking rule affected you at all?”
“No, I can’t say it has. Karen put her foot down on that one and won't let me drink anything
but beer 'til I'm five.”
“What about the Blue Sky Curriculum and the trimester?”
“Well, I can truthfully say it hasn’t affected me at all!”
“Do you have any gripes about Davidson?”
“Yes, I do as a matter of fact: Ever since The Hub quit selling comic books, there isn't a decent
place to get anything to read. I mean, who can get all worked up over ‘Adam.’ Also, I think the
Union film committee should show ‘Snow White’ and the ‘Wizard of Oz.’”
“What courses are you taking this semester?”
“Bible 1 — a child's book of God; Biology 2 — toilet training; English speaking; and phys. ed. — walking.”
“Are you taking part in the present ROTC demonstrations?”
“Actually I’m not. I still have 15 years to go on my deferment, so I thought I'd play it cool.”
“How about open dorms?”
“Before we have open dorms, we need lower doorknobs and smaller urinals. Well, you'll have to excuse me. My attention
span is rather limited and I have to get back to studying.”
“Okay, but what are you studying for?”
“I have a test in North American geography tomorrow and I can’t find the Mississippi.”
