The Davidsonian
NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1968

Admissions Policy: Short Of Tokenism

A check with the Admissions Office reveals the not-so-startling news that Davidson College, the progressive, innovative, Blue-Skying educational leader of
the South, has so far admitted a total of one Negro to the Class of '72. About four Negroes, three
of them athletes, are still under consideration. One Negro has already been rejected. Since only about half those accepted normally
enroll, the black student seems to run the risk of extinction at Davidson, except for the saving graces of the
Athletic Department.

It seems passing strange that Davidson should have no more black students than it does, since it serves primarily an
area with a large percentage of Negroes. The occasional black student has the status of a mirage. We have not
even reached the plateau of successful tokenism. So the Admissions Office, with all the aplomb of a professor’s three-year-old daughter
offering a mud pie to a sophomore, presents us with the information that qualified Negro applicants to Davidson are about
as rare as dodo birds.

Reasons: most black students intelligent enough to get into Davidson can also get into Ivy League schools with hefty scholarships.
More important is the lack of social opportunities at Davidson — limited for whites, practically nonexistent for blacks. After visiting
New Haven and Boston, few bright Negroes are impressed with upper Mecklenburg County.

In the midst of a racially troubled time in an area outstanding for its racial problems, Davidson College is evading
the responsibility it has to the nation and to the South to educate and develop responsible Negro leadership. To move
into the last third of the twentieth century at the rate it should, the college is going to have to
educate black men in the South and for the South. It will certainly require an active recruiting program and perhaps
a system of remedial courses to prepare those who come from inferior secondary schools.

If an amount of time, effort and money equal to that the Athletic Department spends recruiting jocks each year went
into searching the South for capable Negro high school students, maybe Davidson could reach the status of full token integration.
And maybe we could find a few Jews, too.

The Elections Fiasco

The scrapping of Monday’s election was bad enough, but not nearly so bad as a lot of other incidents connected
with this month’s elections.

Forgotten Platforms

Political platforms always seem to change, especially around here. During the campaign, the candidate’s platform is of primary importance. Hundreds
of them, each bursting with insight and big ideas, are plastered all over campus. But once elected, the candidate seems
to push his platform aside and forget his promises. And, consequently, nothing much gets done. A change is needed, and
we intend to help it along.

We've been carefully saving the platforms of all the election winners this spring, and during the coming year, we plan
to pull them out every now and then and see if our leaders are actually doing what they said they'd
do. If they aren't, we'll merely remind them of it, gently.

Walter Lingle’s letter on this page, gratifying in one respect, nonetheless does not alter the basic question concerning the trustees’
rule that the president of Davidson must be a Presbyterian. It boils down to this: the next president will be
a Presbyterian, unless the trustees cannot find a suitable man. Then, and only then, would they broaden their search. But,
we ask, why not open the selection process from the start? The trustees can undoubtedly find a qualified Presbyterian. But
it’s even more likely they can find other men, equally or better qualified, in the ranks of other denominations.

Statistics tell the story. According to a recent edition of the “Yearbook of American Churches,” there are some 125 million
church members in the United States today. Of that number, slightly over 69 million are Protestants; and of those, 4.3
million — or 6.23 per cent — are Presbyterians. Six per cent. It doesn't take a math major to figure
out that the trustees are passing over 94 per cent of America’s Protestants in making their all-important choice.

We're familiar enough with the arguments for restricting ourselves to Presbyterians. We realize that there are a number of outstanding
Presbyterian college presidents around and that perhaps a Presbyterian president would have a slight advantage in fundraising and in relations
with the Presbyterian Church. We’ll even go so far as to concede that Davidson’s previous presidents — all Presbyterians, naturally
— were capable men. But statistics speak louder than any of those arguments. If we limit ourselves to that meager
six per cent in our selection we are denying Davidson the full opportunity of getting the very best man for
the job.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Two Students Laud Team, Coach, Fans

To The Editor:

It seems as if every letter to you involves a criticism of one kind or another—just possibly it's time that
this medium of communication be used for another purpose. I have never written a letter to the editor during my
entire four years at Davidson probably because I have seldom thought my feelings on a particular issue merited the print
or the space. But Saturday night in Raleigh I had an experience that to me merits much more than the
space that this paper or any other media of communication could give it.

For four years people have been telling me about a nebulous concept often referred to as the ‘Davidson spirit.” I
had been doubly concerned because although I had never experienced this burning zeal myself, I felt that I had witnessed
it in the loyalty of an uncountable number of alumni. But Saturday night in Raleigh I not only witnessed it
and felt it—I was part of it—a group of gutty young men playing their hearts out, cheerleaders yelling their faces
blue, a band blowing over the cheers of 10,000 UNC fans, and Davidson supporters cheering and waving, fussin’ and cussin’
.. . Then a buzzer sounded and a dream faded away. But the cheers didn't die—first a cheer for Davidson
that was probably louder than any during the game (if that's possible); cheers for a group of players who never
once gave up, never once stopped fighting; cheers for a fine coach whom possibly we have buried in so much
criticism that we forget just how much he has contributed to this school.

Well, it's kind of hard to describe without being overly sentimental, but I was proud as hell and I know
that two or 3,000 other people in that coliseum were just as proud. Proud not only of a fine coach
and a great basketball team, but most of all proud to be a part of Davidson College.

Dick Lindsey, ’68
Davidson College

To The Editor:

I learned something new at the Eastern Regionals in Raleigh last Saturday night. I already knew that our boys were
fine people who would notlet the petty rivalry and bickering of the fans make them play a “grudge game.” For
some reason, though, I wasn't sure how Lefty would act during and after the game (if we lost, especially). My
doubts proved unfounded. He behaved like a big man, in the deepest sense of the word. Most of us have
never wanted anything so badly as he, his staff, and the team wanted that game; yet all of them controlled
their grief like gentlemen, even after being close to victory. Lefty's move of congratulating Rusty Clark for his great game
was the move of a sportsman, and, for some reason, I'm not at all sure a Dean Smith or a
Larry Miller, had U.N.C. lost, would have been able to show such bigness. I hope that our coaching staff and
team can continue to be the great sports and fierce competitors that they were in Raleigh and all year. The
whole student body could well express in the future its appreciation of this kind of Davidson basketball by refraining from
hooting and waving at fouled-out opponents, from screaming during attempted foul shots, and from any booing of an opposing player
or coach. I have been as guilty or more so of this type of “cheering” as any student here. However,
the completely undeserved boos which Lefty got at Saturday's game from U.N.C. fans made me want for Davidson to distinguish
itself by the sportsmanship of its fans, coaches, and team, from such schools as U.N.C., Duke, and Vanderbilt. Next year’s
Eastern Regionals will be an excellent opportunity for us to do this, but for now all we can do is
thank Wildcat basketball for giving us such a great season.

Keaton Fonvieille, ‘69

Davidson College Students Must Act Like Adults

To The Editor:

We trustees who so avidly read THE DAVIDSONIAN face an insufferable “cultural lag.” Our paper is zipped by mail and
therefore reaches us about the time the next issue is being hungrily snatched up on campus. Anyway, I take pen
in hand to let you know, like I care. As a member of the Board's Committee on Campus and Social
Life, I take real interest in the student bid for more freedom in social affairs and more influence on college
policy; it is a valid bid. Yet we get regular reports of juvenile behavior, damaging your “campus homes,” and in
the case of fire, endangering many lives. Let us hope that the final CRAP action will open the door to
a new day of enjoyable freedom with exercised responsibility. This can encourage us all toward the development of a Davidson
described in a quote from Joseph Tussman in TIME (March 15, Education section). He said a college “must remain in
its mood, its state of mind and its morality essentially adult—it has a civilizing mission.” Finally, accolades to you and
your staff for a fine DAVIDSONIAN. Special thanks to raucous Crosswhite for “West Virginia, Huckel, and Skins,” and to genial
Geoff Seamans who keeps me looking forward to “Looking Backward.”

John N. Miller
Rocky Mount, N. C.

By JOE KEARFOTT
Junior Abroad in France

He must have been a very wise man, that fellow who said that distance gives perspective. Until this year, that
little bit of wisdom never meant a thing to me, but now those several thousand miles of water separating me
from the Davidson campus have proved it to be very true indeed. Each week, when our group receives its copies
of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and I find myself sitting down and reading it, the same thoughts cross through my mind: why
don’t those people realize that this world is too damn big, with too many problems that we've got to solve
if it's going to be worth living in?

The thing which prompted this letter was a recent article in THE DAVIDSONIAN on student leadership, and in particular, on
the Richardson Fellows program. To its director, Mike Mooty, a little piece of advice: If you want to train your
leaders, send them to the slums, not the banks; have them live in the filth of an Appalachian mining town;
send them to Afghanistan or Mozambique or rural Mississippi. Because, Mike, you can't teach them to be leaders until you
teach them the problems, until you force into their tightly sealed minds that being a leader is not being president
of the SGA or a member of ODK, but instead it is being one who understands what's really happening in
this world and is so sickened by the sight of it he vows with everything that's in him that he's
going to try and change it. If you want leaders, Mike, open their eyes and make them really take a
good look at this world, make them see what's happening beyond the steps of Belk dormitory. Then you'll have your
leaders, Mike, for if they once realize what's really going on all around them, then becoming that company executive won't
mean a thing to them. The only thing that will make a damn to them will be to change this
world we live in, to clean out those dirty rotten spots; and they'll lead others toward this goal.

And so, Mike, can you teach your boys leadership? The fact is simple, though tragic, that it cannot be attained
at Davidson College. A beginning can indeed be made there, not through your committees or your officers, but through those
books that gather dust on the shelves and those professors, though few in number, who would give up all their
degrees to see genuine thought on just a few of those faces before them. But it can only be a
beginning there, for this key to leadership is understanding and can come fully only through seeing the world and through
fighting to comprehend the picture it represents. To find that understanding, you've got to get away from Davidson College and
the closed society of white racism which it breeds (albeit unknowingly and undesiringly) through its acceptance of an academic community
almost totally white, Protestant, and “pure-blooded.” Sure, Mike, you can train your boys to be the president of Wachovia Bank
or the head of Burlington Mills. But just make sure you also train them to close their eyes when their
Cadillacs roll past the skinny little black kid with the funny eyes—the eyes that don't shine like a kid's eyes
should, those eyes without hope.
