She Davidsonian November 15, 1968 Page Three

_ The People
i Who Are

Davidson

Faces.

These are the faces of people Davidson students see every day, every week, or at least sometimes.

Some of these faces have only first names, some only last names. And some are nameless faces.

These people are Davidson. They are, in a sense, as much a part of Davidson College tradition as required assemblies,
black umbrellas, Mid Winters, and Chalmers Davidson.

Take a walk down Main Street, drive to the service station, order a tall Bud. Davidson students know these people.

Down Main Street, Murray Fleming pontificates over his toaster and the egg salad. Tall, thin, methodical. One “M” of the
M & M Soda Shop.

And Mary Potts, the other “M,” the Mary of “Mary’s,” that Davidson colloquialism. Queen of the large orange, a master
of the witty comment.

A collage of faces. Ralph Quackenbush, black hair and pipe, with an uncanny memory for names. Ralph, The Hub, the
slick magazines, a carton of Winstons.

Then it’s Tuesday morning. Get a haircut. Sit and wait. The taciturn, rarely smiling Ralph Johnson. “Next gentleman, please.”

And at the post office, Bill Mayhew stands in the back, behind the counter. White shirt, tie, no coat. He
watches you mark your absentee ballot. Meanwhile, Miss Louise Sloan rummages through the post office trash cans, gathers up newspapers,
goes over to the library to read more newspapers. Her hats, her trademark.

Again on Main Street, there’s Parks Todd. Built like a football player. See him at the door of the Methodist
Church on Sundays. Shake his hand, he recognizes the face and doesn't know the name. Mutter something about the sock-it-to-’em
sermon.

Drive down Main Street. Bub Cashion at the Gulf station. Fill it with “Good Gulf.”

Back on Main Street. The black man with no legs in the wheelchair. Greeted, health enquired about, greeting returned.

At the cleaners, W. L. Jackson Jr. Bow tie. Hat. Verbal irrelevances.

Drive up the road to Hattie’s. Hattie Morgan Bumgarner and Betty Jo. The little man who shuffles by the booth,
clearing it of cans and bottles. 11:45. The smell of beer. Play the game machines. A bag of popcorn. Hattie’s
corned beef on rye.

Some people, some things are ephemeral. But not these, these Davidson traditions, these people and faces.

Photos By

DAVID WEEMS
Photography Editor

Story By
CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor
