Hoopsters Rip Colonials, For Mountaineers Prime
By DON SEWELL
Sports Editor

Amassing an impressive attack, the Wildcats prepared for Saturday's game with West Virginia by overwhelming George Washington, 107-75. Four players finished in double figures for Davidson, with everyone on the squad, except Rocky Crosswhite, scoring. The Colonials were met after a delayed plane landing in Charlotte and a hectic bus ride to Davidson by a fired-up Wildcat team and a noisy group of fans. The ‘Cats showed no mercy to the hapless GW team, who carried a 1-11 record into the game. Davidson came out in a vicious full-court press and a fast-break attack that the Colonials just could not handle. With a little over one minute of playing time elapsed, the visitors found themselves on the short end of an 8-0 score. They had not been able to work the ball into their forecourt at all.

Overall, George Washington played one of its better games of the year. Steve Loveless’ game-high 24-point production was the highest one for a Colonial this season. Doug Cook paced Davidson's attack with 21 points. He played less than half the game. Mike Maloy popped in 16, while Wayne Huckel hit for 12 and Rod Knowles for 10. The ‘Cats also beat the backboards for 56 rebounds in the contest. Another pleasant aspect of Davidson’s play was the low number of turnovers. The Wildcats only gave the ball away 11 times. A hot 56.7 percentage on their shots from the floor raised the team's season floor percentage to 50.4. The ease of the win gave the ‘Cats a breather before their next game, another Southern Conference tilt, against West Virginia. The game, to be played tomorrow afternoon on the WVU home court in Morgantown, will be televised in the Charlotte area as the Southern Conference game of the week.

West Virginia is having only a so-so season thus far, but the Mountaineers always manage to give the ‘Cats a tough game. In fact, Davidson has never beaten West Virginia in Morgantown. Mountaineer Field House is another of those gyms notorious for being unfriendly. Davidson's coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell is not exactly a favorite among WVU fans. The Mountaineers recently held a cheering contest at a pep rally in which the 15 loudest, nastiest boys were given free tickets near the Davidson bench for the expressed purpose of heckling Driesell and the team.

The Mountaineer attack centers around senior Ron Williams. The 6-3 guard, all-conference for the past two seasons, is a tremendous scoring threat and an excellent play-maker and passer. Dave Reaser is another West Virginia standout. A good scoring forward, the 6-6 Reaser is also a strong rebounder. The WVU game is important because the Mounties are presently second to the ‘Cats in the conference standings. They have one conference loss, to VMI in Lexington. Davidson carries an unblemished conference slate and a 10-3 overall mark into that game tomorrow.

After the West Virginia game, the Wildcats will have a two-week layoff for exams. The next basketball game will be against Wake Forest, Jan. 27, in Greensboro.

(Staff Photos by Weems)
COOK LAYS IN EASY ONE
Big soph led way past GW.
MALOY HITS ON SHORT JUMPER
Torrid 57.5 field goal percentage leads team.

Injury Requires Surgery; Sidelines Beach Indefinitely
By JIM CROUSE
Sports Writer

Eddie Beach, team captain and record-holder in two events for the Davidson swimming team, underwent surgery following a knee injury over the Christmas holiday. His services have been lost to the ‘Catfish for an indefinite period of time. Beach was valuable to the team both because of his swimming ability and his help to coach Tom Stevens in instructing the swimmers. A fall, suffered in a sandlot basketball game, fractured Beach's kneecap, breaking it into three pieces. Two of the pieces were removed in an operation the day after the accident, the other piece left in place, serving as a diminutive kneecap.

“The first thing I thought about was whether or not I could swim again. That's funny,” Eddie said. “I didn't even think about walking — just whether or not I could swim again.” Beach said that he does not know how serious the effects of the operation will be.

Special Course To Be Available

A special physical education class will be offered next quarter. The activities of the class, directed by Coach Homer Smith, are intended to improve the condition of the members of the program. Meeting three times a week at four in the afternoon, participants will do a certain set of conditioning exercises each class period. As the quarter progresses, the members of the class will try to improve their performance in the exercises. Membership in the class is open to any freshman or upperclassman. Anyone interested in participating in the class should contact Smith or coach Dave Fagg. Credit will be received for taking this course in that it will replace the student's ordinary PE requirement. The class will be especially beneficial to students who are interested in getting into good physical condition as well as fulfilling a PE requirement. Most of the class’ activities will be in the small gym. Horizontal bar, parallel bar, rope, and other activities are among the exercises in the special conditioning class.

Wildcats; ‘Ups and Downs’

“You can play real good basketball in the next six games and get beat.” Lefty told us this before CIT (Charlotte Invitational Tournament), referring to the CIT, Sugar Bowl, Duke, and St. John’s games. Our record of 4-2 for those games is fair but not equivalent to the excellence Lefty demands. At a New Orleans alumni luncheon, Lefty commented on an admirer’s hope that we would play good basketball in the Sugar Bowl Tournament. He told the gathering, “I’m not worried about playing good. I want to win.” This brings to mind the answer by Kentucky’s Adolph Rupp to the statement, “It’s not whether you win or lose, it’s how you play the game.” Rupp tersely answered, “Why keep score?”

Well anyway, we lost to Vanderbilt and played poorly at that. Then we lost to Duke despite the fact that we played well. After beating William & Mary in a sloppy game with the subs participating in the last 19 seconds, (to get our names in the box score as Lefty told us) we clobbered Rice in the first game of the CIT. Rice lived up to the expectations of Texas basketball by finishing last in the tournament. In the Tuesday night finals with previously undefeated Temple, we tried to give them the game but they wouldn’t take it even after we threw two passes away and missed a layup in the last minute of the game. We played bad and won so we were “up.” In reality, I think we were “up” for the opportunity to go home for the first time since October when the season began.

Lefty greeted us in New Orleans the day after Christmas with a three-hour workout. For those of you who haven’t been to the Mardi Gras city, it has a flavor of many different places. The cab drivers speak with a Brooklyn accent and the mini-skirt is common dress. The coaches took us to a reputable place on Bourbon Street where scantily clad girls danced on the tables. Bob Pickens and Fox Demoisey thought it was a good idea and exhibited their Davidson dancing talent by joining the girls on the tables. Maybe the Jups we were drinking were a bit too strong. We ate at Antoine's in the Mystery Room which proved to be an appropriate name, for the waiters served us Pampano in the Sack (a fish concoction in a paper container). It turned out to be good when we found out we didn’t have to eat the bag.

We beat Memphis State in the first game despite their slow style of play. The next night we were trounced by “Tommy Gun” Hagan and Vanderbilt as we played one of our poorest games of the season. We were “down” after that experience especially because none of us could understand why we played so badly. Amidst the flying apple cores and insults, we lost to Duke last Wednesday. Going into the game Duke had a 69-4 record at home which is comparable to our 45 straight in Johnston Gym. Imagine a place like Johnston Gym three times larger and you have Duke Indoor Stadium. But despite the crowd we did blow a seven-point lead and lost. Their outside shooting was tremendous and Mike Lewis was good inside. We played well and lost, and we stayed “down.”

Flying into New York, the city seemed to be endless and after riding in the subways, buses, and cabs, I’m almost sure it is. I have to agree with the people who say that New York is a fascinating place to visit but they wouldn’t want to live there. Flagging down a taxi is like trying to find a girl in Davidson during the week. We rode to the game in Holiday Inn courtesy VW buses and despite this, everyone seemed to be relaxed. Maybe this was the reason why our outside shooting was accurate and we controlled the game for the most part. But possibly St. John’s was not ready for us and consequently we “blew them out of the gym” as Lefty said after the game. Now the team is “up” and if we play like we did against St. John’s, we'll stay that way.pro- gram. He said, “I won't know until I try to use it normally again. I don’t think I'll be able to swim the breaststroke again because that stroke depends a great deal on the ligaments around the knee.” The breaststroke is one of Beach's best events. He currently holds the Davidson record in the 200-yard breaststroke. He feels that he will now have to concentrate on the freestyle races. He is also the record-holder in the 1000-yard freestyle. Beach is eager to get in the water again. “The doctor said that swimming would be the best form of exercise with which to build it up again,” he grinned. Although he could not swim in yesterday's meet against Clemson or today's meet in Boone against Appalachian, Beach is hopeful to be able to swim in the Southern Conference meet the first week in March.

State Defeats Wildcats

Davidson's Wildcat wrestlers dropped their fourth match in five starts, losing to North Carolina State in Johnston Gym, Wednesday. The Wolfpack won the close match by a 15-12 score, with no one from either team able to win by a pin. The only match that the Wildcats have not lost all season was the contest with the University of North Carolina, Dec. 15. Team Captain Lowell Bryan won the heavyweight match, the last event of the day, to tie the score at 16-16. That tie and the loss to State brought the overall record of the grapplers to 0-4-1.

In the match with State, the Wildcats got off to an early lead, winning the first two weight classes. Colin Hudson won the 123-pound event over Don Cashman by a decision. Dean Cromartie, wrestling in the 130-pound class, outlasted his opponent to win this match. Then freshman grapplers Bart Walker and Dick Morrison lost. Walker fell in the 137-pound match, while Morrison lost the 145-pound event. Jack Jacobs, another freshman, put the ‘Cats back in the lead, decisioning his opponent in the 152-pound class. Then Alan Kirkpatrick lost in the 160-pound match. Frank Rader, a freshman participating in the 167-pound event, lost a one-point decision, the outcome determined by riding time. Wrestling for the first time this season, after suffering a football injury, Kerry Keith lost his 177-pound match, putting the Wolfpack out of reach.

Send check or money order. Include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax. Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed.

P.O. Box, ATLANTA, GA., 30328

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY

Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS

La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Davidsonian
January 12, 1968
Page Five

Cagers Remain In National Poll

Fighting to maintain its national ranking, Davidson's cage squad played determined basketball and won five of its seven games between Dec. 15 and Jan. 6. These games left the ‘Cats with a 9-3 record, still ranked tenth in the nation by the United Press International. The scrappy William & Mary Indians gave the ‘Cats a scare before losing 81-75. Mike Maloy played his best game in that outing, leading Davidson with a 27-point production.

The Charlotte Invitational Tournament was played Dec. 18-19, with Davidson facing Rice in the first round. The ‘Cats won that one easily, breezing to a 90-68 victory. It was a little tougher to beat Temple in the finals. Temple came into the game without a loss and set a slow pace for the game. But a strong team effort, with five players scoring in double figures, enabled the Wildcats to salvage the win, 63-60.

After a brief Christmas break, the Davidson squad journeyed to New Orleans for the Sugar Bowl Tournament, and a return shot at Vanderbilt. The ‘Cats earned their rematch with the Commodores by defeating Memphis State in the opener. Again facing a slow brand of basketball, the Wildcats had to settle for a 51-44 victory. Then in the finals against Vandy, hoping to avenge the earlier overtime loss, the ‘Cats found themselves up against a stubborn Commodore team. Vanderbilt controlled the game, allowing Davidson to lead only once in the second half, and went on to win 80-67. A strong effort by Rodney Knowles was not enough to overcome the performance of Tommy Hagan.

Then on Jan. 3, at Duke Indoor Stadium, the enthusiastic fans kept up a high level of encouragement for their Blue Devils, urging them on to a close, but decisive win over Davidson, 89-84. Both teams played well in that game. Davidson put six men in double figures, with Jerry Kroll leading the way with 20. But Mike Lewis and Steve Vandenberg led the Devils to the victory in the closing minutes.

The Wildcats traveled to New York on Jan. 3 to face St. John's, after losing their last two starts. St. John's was nationally ranked and the ‘Cats were expected to be up against a very tough team in unfriendly territory. But Davidson played what Coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell called “our best game” and won easily, 70-54. The Wildcat defense was excellent, holding St. John's to a single man in double figures. Dave Moser played a fine floor game and pumped in 15 points to lead the ‘Cats.

1968: ITS CAUSE AND CURE

Are you still writing “1967” on your papers and letters? I'll bet you are, you scamp! But I am not one to be harsh with those who forget we are in a new year, for I myself have long been guilty of the same lapse. In fact, in my senior year at college, I wrote 1873 on my papers until nearly November of 1874! (It turned out, incidentally, not to be such a serious error because, as we all know, 1874 was later repealed by President Chester A. Arthur in a fit of pique over the Black Tom Explosion. And, as we all know, Mr. Arthur later came to regret his hasty action. Who does not recall that famous meeting between Mr. Arthur and Louis Napoleon when Mr. Arthur said, “Lou, I wish I hadn't repealed 1874.” Whereupon the French emperor made his immortal rejoinder, “Tipi que nous et tyler tu.” Well sir, they had many a good laugh about that, as you can imagine.)

But I digress. How can we remember to write 1968 on our papers and letters? Well sir, the best way is to find something memorable about 1968, something unique to fix it firmly in your mind. Happily, this is very simple because, as we all know, 1968 is the first year in history that is divisible by 2, by 5, and by 7. Take a pencil and try it: 1968 divided by 2 is 984; 1968 divided by 5 is 393.6; 1968 divided by 7 is 281.14. This mathematical curiosity will not occur again until the year 2079, but we will all be so busy then celebrating the Chester A. Arthur bicentennial that we will scarcely have time to be writing papers and letters and like that.

Another clever little trick to fix the year 1968 in your mind is to remember that 1968 spelled backwards is 8691. “Year” spelled backwards is “raey.” “Personna” spelled backwards is “Annosrep.” I mention Personna because I am paid to write this column by the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and they are inclined to withhold my check if I omit to mention their product. Not, mind you, that it is any chore for me to sing the praises of Personna, for it is a seemly blade that shaves you cleanly, a gleaming blade that leaves you beaming, a trouble-free blade that leaves you stubble-free, a matchless blade that leaves you scratchless. If you are tired of facial slump, if you are fed up with jowl blight, try Personna today... available both in double-edge style and Injector style. And if I seem a bit excessive in my admiration for Personna, I ask you to remember that to me Personna is more than a razor blade; it is also an employer.

But I digress. We were speaking of the memorable aspects of 1968 and high among them, of course, is the fact that in 1968 the entire House of Representatives stands for election. There will, no doubt, be many lively and interesting contests, but none, I'll wager, quite so lively and interesting as the one in my own district where the leading candidate is none other than Chester A. Arthur! Mr. Arthur, incidentally, is not the first ex-president to come out of retirement and run for the House of Representatives. John Quincy Adams was the first. Mr. Adams also holds another distinction: he was the first son of a president ever to serve as president. It is true that Martin Van Buren’s son, Walter “Blinky” Van Buren, was at one time offered the nomination for the presidency, but he, alas, had already accepted a bid to become Mad Ludwig of Bavaria. James K. Polk’s son, on the other hand, became Salmon P. Chase. Millard Fillmore’s son went into aluminum siding. This later became known as the Missouri Compromise.

In Missouri, or anywhere else, there is no compromise with quality in Personna or in Personna’s partner in shaving pleasure—Burma-Shave. Burma-Shave comes to you in regular or menthol. Try it. You'll find it soaks rings around any other lather.