CANDIDATES TAKE STANDS (See Page Six)

VOL. LVI

Phi Beta Kappa Elects 8 Seniors, Lone Junior

By JOHN PANCAKE
Staff Writer

Eight seniors and one junior have been elected to the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.

Bill Andrews, an English major, is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, president of the Red and Black Masquers and is listed in "Who's Who Among American Colleges and Universities." He is an associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Mike Payne, the only junior tapped, is a pre-med major. He is a member of Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholastic honorary, and is assistant treasurer of Pi Kappa Phi.

Philosophy major Bobby Lane is a member of the Blue Sky Committee and the faculty Student Life Subcommittee. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and serves on the four-man Student Advisory Committee in the selection of a new college president.

Danny Layman, a participant in the history honors program, is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and its recording secretary. He is also a member of the faculty Library Committee.

Biology major Mike May is president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a chemistry honorary, and a senior representative on the Student Council. A member of Pi Kappa Phi, he is doing honors work in biology.

Mike Carroll, a history major, is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. He is chairman of the Committee on Rules and Punishment, a Dana Scholar, and is a member of both Alpha Phi Omega, service fraternity, and Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish honorary.

JASPER TO APPEAL

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1968

NUMBER NINETEEN

Junior Mason Stephenson, a political science major, spent his junior year in Marburg, Germany. He is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, German honorary, the Conservative Club, and Alpha Tau Omega.

Clark Sugg, a French major and pre-med, spent last year in Montpellier, France. He is a member of Le Cercle Francais, Phi Eta Sigma, freshman honorary, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry honorary.

Bobby Myers, a German major, spent last year in Marburg, Germany. He is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, German honorary, and Sigma Chi. He served as secretary of the YMCA Cabinet his sophomore year.

The students will be initiated at a banquet on April 10. Dr. Frederick Brooks, head of the Department of Information Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will be the speaker.

Seven Candidates File For SGA Presidency

Voting Set For President, Annual, Court Wednesday

By GEORGE ALLEN
Staff Writer

Seven candidates for president of the Student Government Association, "the largest number in the last eight or nine years," filed for election by the Thursday night deadline, according to Bruce Weihe, Student Council elections chairman.

Seven rising seniors have filed for president: Dave Clemmons, Fletcher Hartsell, Frank Murphy, Joe Murphy, John Smith, Ashton Trice, and John Williams. They will present short speeches in a student body assembly Monday.

Sixty-seven students filed for the offices of DAVIDSONIAN editor, "Quips and Cranks" editor, and Honor Court members. Voting for the first group of offices will be Wednesday. Two other dates, March 13 and March 18, have been set for other campus offices. Separate stories on the candidates for DAVIDSONIAN editor, SGA president, and "Quips and Cranks" editor appear on this page and on page 6.

Council Outlaws Illegal Politicking

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Council took steps Wednesday against bloc voting and illegal financial support during campus political campaigns. The council voted to accept Article IV, Section 7 of the new bylaws, which prohibits both practices.

The first part of the newly-approved section imposes a fine of $50 to $100 upon any organization which participates in "an exchange of votes along organizational lines." The provision was included in the bylaws, according to Franklin Anderson, Constitu...

5 Seek 2 Editorial Posts

Five rising seniors have stepped into the muddied waters of the publications elections.

This morning the Publications Board nominated Robbie Hooker and Bob Reid as candidates for editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN but denied a bid by Al Jasper on the grounds that he lacked sufficient technical experience. The board's vote was 7-4 in favor of approving Jasper, one short of the total needed for acceptance of a nomination from the floor. Jasper said this afternoon he plans to appeal to the Court of Appeals, recently created by the SGA Constitution, but as yet without any members.

Don Gately and Bill Olson were nominated by the Publications Board as candidates for the editorship of the annual.

Bondurant Takes Foundation Post

Bill Bondurant, assistant to the president and legal adviser for Davidson, has been named program associate of the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation of Winston-Salem. He will join the foundation staff on June 1.

"Bill Bondurant's service to Davidson has been of great benefit to me, to the college, to the town of Davidson and to many others," said President D. Grier Martin.

With the Babcock Foundation, Bondurant will be responsible for securing information and making recommendations on programs under consideration by foundation directors.

Annual elections will be held as scheduled on Wednesday, but the newspaper elections may be delayed, according to SGA President Tom Earnhardt.

Hooker, a history honors major from Chapel Hill, is managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN news pages. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and is on the Dean's List. He received the D. G. Martin Award given to the outstanding freshman reporter and served as news editor his sophomore year. His professional experience includes summers on The Chapel Hill Weekly and Greensboro Daily News. He plans a career in journalism.

Jasper, an English honors major from Oreland, Pa., is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is on the Dean's List and has won the IMAC wrestling championship in his weight class the last three years. He has served as editor of the Birch Pond Beacon, a weekly published during the summer in Crescent Lake, Me., for two years. Jasper has never served on THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Reid, a history major from Arden and rush chairman of Pi Kappa Phi, is managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He has also served as assistant sports editor and sports editor.worked as a reporter for The Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Tenn., and the Richmond Times-Dispatch. He plans a career in journalism. He received a $500 award from the Newspaper Fund of the Wall Street Journal last summer. Gately is layout editor of the "Quips and Cranks." A math major from Memphis, he is alumni secretary of Phi Delta Theta and is a member of Scabbard and Blade.

Olson, a premed major from Nashville, Tenn., is currently photography editor of both the "Quips and Cranks" and THE DAVIDSONIAN. He has served two years as staff photographer on both publications and two years as photography editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

The provision also makes possible the establishment of campus political parties at some time in the future. The second provision forbids any candidate from receiving financial support for his campaign except that offered by the SGA, or from spending his own money on the campaign. The penalty is disqualification from the office for which he was running. President Tom Earnhardt, who was suffering from the measles, was not present. "Since many of you are running for office," he said in a note to the council, "exposure to me would mean that each of you could become a carrier. Therefore, while campaigning in the dorms, candidates could infect the voters, thus causing a terrible epidemic, especially since germs incubate much better in the hot air which is generally associated with any campaign."

The 34 freshmen candidates for Honor Court are: Doug Abele, Dick Allison, Jeff Brantley, David Buck, Steve Callender, Gary Cash, Herb Clegg, Ran Coble, Chip Durant, Gene Early, and Robert Folger. Also, Steve Hall, Jack Jacobs, Alan Kirkpatrick, Rusty Lawrence, Tim McCaulay, Gray Mason, Tom Morrill, Alan Oxman, Earl Robinson, Bruce Rogers, Paul Rowland, Weldon Schenck, Skip Smoak, and David Stimpson. Also, Robert Truitt, Jimmy Trussell, Jim Upchurch, George Wagoner, David Wells, Jimmy Wright, Bill Youkey, Jule Young, and John Yurkutat.

The 15 sophomore candidates for Honor Court are: Nelson Abell, Johnny Baker, Pat Bray, John Bryant, Ed Dannelly, Mac Davis, Romey Fisher, Tom Hendren, Gary Henschen, Norman Hurwitz, Johnny Lientz, Charles Newton, George Sproul, Cary Tucker, and Tom Way.

The 12 junior candidates for Honor Court are: Bob Apgar, Scott Cutting, Paul Gallis, Mike Garvey, Ben Martin, Luther Moore, Peter Norton, Randy Phillips, John Schimmel, Frank Spence, Ken Telford, Garee Thomas, and Sid Esary.

"I hope they're all serious about running," Weihe said. Candidates for president, all YMCA positions, freshmen adviser, and defense adviser must file by Wednesday.

HOLDING BACK THE FLOOD
Students who went to the library Monday night expecting to study ended up lending a hand to the college maintenance department when a water pipe in the basement burst. Until the leak was repaired, Bob Trons and others held back the flood with empty waste baskets. (Photo by Steve Brown.)

Jackson Wins German Grant
Jack Jackson, a Davidson senior, has been awarded a scholarship grant for a year's study in Germany by the German Academic Exchange Service, an agency of the German government. The scholarship, which provides living, tuition, and incidental expenses for the year, will allow Jackson to attend the University of Bonn as a regular student in the field of modern German history. Jackson is a history major. The scholarship is awarded on the basis of ability in the German language, academic accomplishment, recommendations, and especially on the basis of a specific project which the student must propose in his application, according to Jackson.

Draft Laws: Thorn In A Senior’s Side
By JIM COOLEY
Staff Writer
(First of two articles)

Many Davidson seniors are wondering where they will be and what they will be doing next fall. The problem is not a sudden epidemic of indecision but the uncertainty which a new draft law and a recent memorandum by the National Security Council have caused among college students across the nation. Senate bill S1432, passed by Congress last June, was not remarkably different from the law which it replaced, but there are several points that are of particular concern to draft registrants. The most important reform was a provision which enables the President to alter the present "oldest first" policy of drafting used by the nation’s 4100 local draft boards. Aside from volunteers and those delinquent with the Selective Service, the local boards pick draftees who are single or married after Aug. 26, 1965, and who are between the ages of 19 and 26. Executive order presently decrees drafting of the oldest within this category first. Thus, all the 25-year-olds are drafted before anyone age 24 is called, and all the 25-year-olds born in January are taken before any of those born in February. Under the new law President Johnson could reverse the policy to the youngest first. If such were to happen, the graduating student would be placed in the highest priority group (19-year-olds) for one year. If he were not drafted within this period, he would drop back into his regular age group and his probability of being drafted would be greatly decreased. The new law stipulates that the President may not end undergraduate deferments unless the armed forces manpower needs so dictate. The most controversial section of the draft law concerns draft violators and those protesting against the draft. In a memorandum dated Oct. 26, Lt. General Lewis B. Hershey, director of the Selective Service, instructed local boards to draft immediately anyone who interfered with military recruiting on campus; who burned, tore up, or refused to carry his draft card; or who attempts to disrupt the drafting process in Selective Service offices.

JACK JACKSON ... Germany-bound
"They require that you suggest a very specific topic which you can adequately cover in a year’s time," Jackson said. The term of the scholarship runs from September 1968 to August 1969. While a student at Davidson, Jackson has been circulation manager of "The Miscellany," head manager of the soccer team, and a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and Delta Phi Alpha, German honorary fraternity.

Up ‘n’ Coming
Saturday, March 2
8 p.m. Movie College Union "Diary of Anne Frank"

Sunday, March 3
7:30 p.m. Student Worship Service Lingle Chapel
—Dr. W. G. Workman

Monday, March 4
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium
Student Body President Speeches
8:15 p.m. Piano Concert Hodson Hall
John Garvey, pianist

Tuesday, March 5
10:20 a.m. Student Body Assembly Love Auditorium
Mrs. Leah Parat Program Manager Israel Broadcasting Corporation
7 p.m. Blow-Up ‘68 College Union
Karl Boxer Trio Jazz

Thursday, March 7
10:20 a.m. Chapel Love Auditorium
Dr. Carleton B. Chapman Dean, Dartmouth Medical School
8:30 p.m. Open End George Trask "Civil Disorder" Union Lobby