THE TIES THAT BIND

Armstrong and his secretary keep tabs on alumni.

Alumni Office Sponsors Capsule Courses, Trips

By BILL SEIGLER
Associate Editor

Arrange a trip to New Orleans for 65 alumni to see Davidson in the Sugar Bowl Tournament. Arrange for a thousand alumni and their families to stay on campus for three days the weekend after graduation, providing a series of capsule courses taught by Davidson professors and arranging tenth, 25th, and 50th class reunions. Try to induce each of the 50 alumni chapters to meet once a year, and keep them posted on what the college is doing. This is the beginning of the description of the job of alumni director, now held by William B. Armstrong, '61. The job also involves the footwork of holding together the National Alumni Association, of arranging Homecoming, of publishing the alumni bulletin (in cooperation with the Office of Public Information), and supervising alumni elections.

The alumni weekend, begun five years ago under William L. Bondurant’s term as alumni director, has “proven very successful,” according to Armstrong. Short courses are offered to alumni, such as one called “Corporations: Competition and Confusion,” taught by Dr. Cora Nelson. A course on college admissions is offered to high school students who come. In addition to arranging alumni weekend, the alumni director often has to supply programs for local chapter meetings. Student Council President Tom Earnhardt has already spoken to alumni at three of these meetings. On other occasions, slides or a film is shown. Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston has met with several chapters to explain the Blue Sky changes.

Armstrong also serves as liaison between alumni and the college, but this job consists mainly of channeling requests and opinions to the proper office. Placement service is provided by the placement office, under C. Shaw Smith, and is available to alumni as well as students. According to Armstrong, requests come regularly for prospective job applicants who have graduated from Davidson several years ago, but the problem is communicating the information to the alumni who might be interested.

Keeping tabs on 12,000 alumni is a massive job which employs three people full time at tasks which include sending bibs to new babies, channeling requests for basketball tickets, and programming the computer. From the time a student leaves Davidson, he is tracked, primarily through the use of information he leaves with the college in a pre-graduation questionnaire. Presently on file in the alumni office is information on every student for the past 67 years. Addresses are traced through the post office and through the names of two contacts whose name the student leaves the college. Information on students is gathered by a

Graduate Influence Extensive, But Quiet, Behind The Scenes

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

How much do alumni influence the policy of Davidson? Extensively, but the influence is quiet and behind the scenes: almost like an unwritten agreement among the alumni. “The president and trustees are sensitive to intelligent comments from alumni, students, and faculty,” mused Assistant to the President William L. Bondurant as he collected his thoughts. “I am not aware of any coup d’etats which have been brought about by alumni,” he continued. There has never been “an effort to stack the Board of Trustees, or put undue pressure on the president's office.”

“In some cases, I'm sure alumni influence is substantial,” said former DAVIDSONIAN editor and Wildcat Club president Edward Sutton. Commenting on a letter writing campaign last year during the debate on subsidized athletics, he explained that there had been no organized effort to encourage letters, but that the directors of the Wildcat Club had written. “I think it had some influence—I don't know if it was decisive,” Sutton added. The faculty petitioned the trustees for a cessation of the subsidizing last year, and the petition was signed by most of the faculty. The trustees voted to maintain the policy. Sutton qualified his remarks on alumni power, maintaining that they had as much interest in the college as any professor, and pointing out their financial contributions, but also indicating that no one group—students, administration, faculty, or alumni—should have decisive power.

Bondurant pointed to the continuity of policy in the college as evidence that alumni do not swing the administration and trustees back and forth. “The college has a record of not making many mistakes... of moving slowly, carefully, and deliberately.” However, the influence of the alumni is nevertheless tremendous. Ninety per cent of the Board of Trustees are Davidson graduates, and most of the key figures in the administration. Davidson graduates among the administration include President D. Grier Martin, '32, Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston, '30, Business Manager Robert Currie, '47, and Associate Dean of Faculty and Registrar Jay Ostwalt, '35. Alumni elect from among themselves 12 of the 49 members of the Board of Trustees, but their influence is shown by the large number of presbytery-elected trustees which are alumni: 32 out of 37.

A large portion of the influence is a result of the work which alumni do in raising money. “The amount of time they put in the Ford Challenge is amazing to me,” Bondurant said. “The alumni serve as a major factor in the ongoing of the college,” Bondurant continued. “It is beyond question that Davidson's growth and development to the advantageous position it now holds, is due to the alumni over the years.” The control and influence of the alumni are subtle but dominating. It is more like a class control than an association which pressures the chief.

Alumni Profile

Alumni distribution by states:
Mass. 75
R.I. 10
N.H. 7
Me. 2
Ver. 6
Conn. 60
N.J. 82
N.Y. 315
Pa. 135
Del. 18
Wash., D.C. 45
Md. 170
W. Va. 120
Va. 825
N.C. 4,170
S.C. 915
Ga. 795
Fla. 705
Ala. 295
Tenn. 390
Miss. 90
Ky. 135
Ohio 90
Ind. 30
Mich. 43
Iowa 12
Wisc. 13
Minn. 12
N.D. 2
Mont. 2
Ill. 68
Mo. 42
Kans. 16
Nebr. 5
La. 90
Ark. 10
Okla. 30
Texas 225
Colo. 40
Idaho 2
Ariz. 11
N.M. 11
Nev. 2
Calif. 210
Hawaii 9
Oregon 12
Wash. 22
Alaska 2

Sons of Alumni (Class of '71)
Applied 51 (75%)
Accepted 40 (78% of accepted)
Enrolled

Occupations of Davidson Alumni, by percentage:
Accounting 1.0
Architecture
Arts
Business & Industry
Communications, Entertainment
Engineering
Government
Health Service
Law
Medicine
Misc.
Religious
Retired
Science

Only 29 of the 84 members of the faculty are now Davidson graduates, but these 29 occupy influential positions. Out of 42 full professors, 19, or almost half, are Davidson graduates, and eight of the 10 chairmen of faculty constitutional committees are also alumni. Within the general administration of the college, 7 out of 9 are Davidson alumni.Newspaper clipping service, and by going through discarded North and South Carolina newspapers which the library does not have. Four times a year the alumni bulletin is sent out to all alumni, and in the past two years, there have been more than 5,000 address changes. Addresses are kept on computer cards and envelopes addressed by the IBM 403 data processor. This procedure cuts a four-to-five day job to a day's work, and allows for rapid and generally error-free printing of the Alumni Directory. The computer has permitted the alphabetizing of the alumni more rapidly and arrangement by class and city. Attention is given to the Alumni Association because of its power, which rests largely on two pillars—its financial support and election of trustees. Individual alumni not only contribute financially to the college, but many have assisted in fundraising drives and have helped petition foundations for grants. But perhaps the most important source of power comes from the power to elect men to the Board of Trustees, the governing body of the college. The charter of Davidson College empowers the association to elect some of its members to the board. The number was set at 12 by the trustee by-laws. Of these 12, all must be members of an "evangelical church." Alumni trustees serve four-year terms and are limited to three consecutive terms. After a third consecutive term, an alumni trustee is ineligible for re-election for one year. Four of the 12 current alumni trustees are from North Carolina. The youngest is a member of the class of 1952—Hugh Cannon. Other than fundraising, alumni groups sponsor activities such as receptions for prospective students. Recently the Charlotte chapter honored a group of professors for their contribution to the school. Local chapters also serve as channels of communication between Davidson and its graduates. Recently, Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of the faculty, spoke to several chapters on the Blue Sky proposals.

Financial Role Exceeds One-Sixth Contribution
By RICHARD COWART
Staff Writer

Although Davidson's alumni contribute only one-sixth of the college's income, they play an important role in the financial life of the school. This is according to Robert J. Sailstad, who as director of the college public relations and development office directs the fundraising operations of the school. "Don't underestimate the importance of alumni giving," he said. "The little gifts are more important than the dollars involved." Alumni contributions are overshadowed by huge donations from large foundations. But without alumni support, Sailstad said, these foundations would not contribute to Davidson. "Foundations won't give to a college which isn’t supported by its own alumni," he said. Gifts from foundations amount to nearly two-thirds of Davidson’s income, he added. Davidson graduates also help administer fundraising drives. During the Ford Challenge drive last year, Davidson alumni organized local committees in several cities and states and contacted other graduates to appeal for contributions. More than 1,000 alumni solicited funds during the drive, Sailstad said. He added that the reputation of Davidson alumni encourages foundations to contribute. The personal achievements of Davidson alumni in business, education, and the church draw attention to the college, he said. Most alumni gifts are funneled into the current operating budget, Sailstad added. Certain large donations are tagged for financing special projects and improvements, such as dormitories and athletic fields. Alumni funds are pooled into the Living Endowment Fund, Sailstad explained. From this fund, the college draws resources to pay for such things as athletics, faculty salaries, and maintenance. In recent years there has been a marked increase in the percentage of contributing alumni and the amount of their contributions, Sailstad said. In 1956, 20 percent of the alumni gave a total of $80,000 to the college. But in 10 years, the percentage jumped to nearly 40 percent. The contributions totaled $220,000. There are two basic reasons why alumni give money to the college, he said. The first is that the alumni retain an "honest emotional attachment to the college." The second, he added, is that alumni want to see Davidson progress. "They want to give to Davidson," he concluded, "because Davidson is going places."

Alumni Organization Is Influential
By BOB REID
Managing Editor

When a student leaves Davidson, he becomes part of a large, well-organized body which, by its power to elect trustees, could wield considerable influence on the life of the college. That body is the National Alumni Association, a non-dues paying organization which is divided into 50 local chapters from the Atlantic to Kansas City and from New York to Florida. Graduation from Davidson is not a necessary qualification for membership. According to Article III of the association’s constitution, all persons who "have attended or who may hereafter attend Davidson College as regular students for as much as one academic year" are members. Recipients of honorary degrees are eligible too. Controlling the organization are a president, president-elect, board of directors, and two vice-presidents. The president and vice presidents are elected at the annual association meeting during Homecoming. The director of alumni affairs serves as secretary. The president and his officers are free to manage their affairs without official regulation by the college. The current president is Samuel Hemphill '39 of Hickory. The president-elect, who will serve as president next year, is B. G. McClintock '40 of Greenwood, S.C. The president-elect and vice presidents are elected by mail ballot before the Homecoming meeting. Members vote for three men, and the candidate with the greatest number of votes becomes president. Between annual meetings, the affairs of the association are managed by the board of directors. The board is composed of the current officers and past presidents of the association, alumni trustees, current presidents of the local chapters, presidents of senior classes and student councils for the preceding five years, and three alumni from the faculty or administration who are appointed by the association president. Among their duties, board members must nominate candidates for offices in the association. Of course, not all the alumni remain actively interested in Davidson. According to alumni affairs personnel, graduates who live close to Davidson are usually the most active. With a few exceptions, most alumni leaders are from the two Carolinas, according to association publications.

Rule Allows Student Vote

Provisions in the constitution of the Alumni Association will apparently enable students to vote in alumni elections, it was discovered this week. These elections include the annual election of the alumni officers and three trustees. The part of the constitution which may enable the change defines a member of the Alumni Association as any person who has attended Davidson for a complete term during an academic year, including special students. However, there is no provision which requires that a student have graduated or left the college before he assumes this membership. Asked if the provision would apply to students still at Davidson, Armstrong, alumni director, conceded reluctantly, "I suppose so." Later, calling William Bondurant, former alumni director and assistant to the president, Armstrong was told by Bondurant that the interpretation allowing for student voting was correct. The provisions in question read: "The members of the Association shall consist of all persons who (1) have attended or who may hereafter attend Davidson College as regular or special students for as much as one academic year during one or more than one regular session and/or (2) have received or may hereafter receive an Honorary Degree conferred by the Board of Trustees." The second provision reads, "Each member of the Association shall have one vote as to the election of officers and any resolution, question, or issue properly coming before the Association for its decision or action."