Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO NOVEMBER 7, 1969

A 2-2-1 Season

AN EDITORIAL

If the commission reports released this week were to face a regular five-game season, one at a time, the odds
would be in favor of them producing a 2-2-1 season. That’s the way, in our initial but careful judgment, the
reports stack up: two winners, two losers, and a slightly-better-than-normal tie. The relative strengths and weaknesses of each report have
been determined not only by their conclusions but also by their methods and their presentation.

COEDUCATION — A WINNER

Even if one took away the flawless prose of Professor Frank Bliss, the report would still win. It was thorough,
in fact exhaustive, in seeking information on which to base its decision. It may be that the committee members see
the situation a bit too rosily in some respects, and in this lies the report’s own weakness. It may be
too simple to talk confidently of the ease the college might have in obtaining the necessary $8 million increase in
endowment, to say nothing of the $5 million capital expenditure for additional facilities. (This does not include the expenditure for
the required extra library space and seating.) It also seems that the commission has too easily upped the student-faculty ratio
from 12-1 up to 14-1. Many classes are too large already without opting for a less favorable ratio. One final
weakness is the failure to follow up on several questions which the commission identifies as important considerations in the coed
plan: namely, Davidson’s location in the South; its history as a church-related college; and its history as a liberal arts
school. The first two are not dealt with at all, though the third gets some attention. In spite of these
shortcomings, the report succeeds in its presentation and its conclusions because of the great amount of research and documentation which
it contains. That gives it somewhat of an edge over its companion reports.

EXTRA-CAMPUS RESPONSIBILITIES — A WINNER

The ECR Commission offered one of the better reports because it is fairly innovative and futuristic. One wishes that transcripts
of the commission hearings with the most relevant data and testimony were being made available at the time. It would
produce an even stronger case with more supporting material. Some of the recommendations are too indefinite. The report does not
say why 100 was the number of black students chosen as the “critical mass.” The report was also a bit
vague on black faculty and administrators. Probably the greatest deficiency in the ECR report is that it lacks a real
sense of urgency and commitment necessary to carry out their program at Davidson, and it fails to project the sort
of institutional change that will be necessary. Perhaps the most revealing thing about this report is its apologetic manner. Although
it is somewhat presumptuous of Davidson College to think that it can mold black students into leadership roles, it does
give the need for educated black leadership in the South as the primary justification for its program for the disadvantaged.
The winningest point about the whole commission is the realization that Davidson is actually going to do something about the
outside world, and perhaps in doing so it will rejoin the present.

ATHLETICS — A LOSER

Aside from the fact that one of its basic assumptions is being disproven by this year’s football team, this commission
falls short of what it could be. There are some very ambiguous points. For example, the note in the appendix
on financial statistics says that the savings from a desubsidization of football would be partially decreased because need scholarships would
be given in their place. But no indication is given as to how much of a savings would be entailed
in such a move. The statistics themselves are not terribly convincing. Statistically the commission followed only the opinion of the
faculty, pretty much disregarding the answers to the student and alumni questionnaires. The weakness of this report lies in that
it did not go far enough in its research. More information on other schools in similar situations would be beneficial.
The results of the commission are bound to be unpopular with students and alumni, but more thorough documentation would have
at least offered a motive for the conclusions reached. Stats alone are not enough to produce a winner, as the
football team has learned from the past.

CHURCH RELATIONSHIP — A LOSER

Regardless of any personal beliefs or convictions, the church relationship commission falls short of the goal. The tone and texture
of the report is apologetic and defensive, rather than positive, regarding the premise that Davidson should maintain its ties with
the Presbyterian church. We do not disagree with the decision, but we are disappointed that the commission did not thoroughly
justify this recommendation and more or less accepted it as a working hypothesis. This will convince very few persons. The
argument presented in the report rests strongly on the concept of the Church’s parenthood over the college and of the
college’s “grateful child” image. There is a weakness in the Program Subcommittee’s suggestion that any act of service or goodwill
by the students shows support of the church. Also, questionnaires are invalid unless percentages or numbers responding are indicated. The
report does offer some good recommendations (removal of religious limitations on faculty and administration), but the report in most parts
represents a weak effort by a distinguished group.

SOCIAL PATTERNS — A TOSS-UP

The report of the social patterns commission represents a careful, thoughtful study, based on many good points, and points out
the failures of the college to provide proper housing, eating arrangements, and social outlets. But at the same time, there
is a weakness in the conclusion as evidenced by the dissenting members of the commission. When there is dissent among
the team members, it is difficult for the team to put up a solid defense. Such dissent within the commission
is damaging to the impact of the report, for the alumni, students, and trustees of the college cannot be expected
to accept what is not agreeable to a committee of ten men. It seems only natural to assume that the
commission would have recognized this point, and in spite of time limitations come up with a property of compromise more
acceptable to all. The team analogy can go only so far, but the reports do offer much in a number
of areas while falling short in others. Our evaluations are reactionary, because evaluations of this nature must be. More time
and more study will help to smooth over the problems so that by the time the trustees are ready to
act in January, the reports might expect a better season.

PURPOSE

The Commission sought to examine the social patterns of the college in order to ascertain the degree to which they
contribute to the full development of the students with respect to the goals of the college and to discover which
aspects of the social patterns presently operative should be maintained and which should be altered by strengthening or by other
modification, including replacement. In the performance of our task, we analyzed social patterns as these patterns are related to living
arrangements, groups, and campus activities.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Living Arrangements

Davidson as a Residential College

There are great values to be attained from a residential college as contrasted with a commuter college; learning from one's
peers is a major source of college education and can be far more extensive and intensive when one is living
with one’s fellow students rather than having one’s exposure to them limited to the contacts available to commuters. We recommend
that Davidson continue to operate as a residential college with students being permitted to live off campus only for reasons
deemed appropriate by the Dean of Students’ Office.

Residential Provisions

It is important that the residential provisions be appealing to the students. The dormitories are noisy, inconvenient, and provide little
that makes for community. Housing should provide (1) inducements for community...

This Commission wrestled with the question of the values and problems inherent in a church-college relationship. We have asked whether
a college can be a good academic institution and retain a faith commitment which is crystallized in an official relationship
to the church. If so, what would be the most desirable form for this relationship to take? We have concluded
that church and college can work together, and that the fruitfulness of such a union is dependent upon the quality
of the relationship. Therefore, we have assumed the responsibility of recommending some changes in Davidson’s relationship with the church to
the end that her effectiveness and her faith commitment may be enhanced. The fact that a large number of good
colleges are church-related today and value that relationship speaks volumes in behalf of the union of faith and reason, the
compatibility of commitment and inquiry, the feasibility of a Christian institution of higher learning. Therefore, your Commission has attempted to
pinpoint the conditions prevailing at such institutions which may be contributing to a wholesome church-college relationship. We have identified the
following; though there may well be others: 1) Formally stated legal strictures based on religious considerations are minimal. For faculty
and students, there are no religious restrictions. 2) Serious concern informally implemented characterizes these campuses. 3) An ecumenical spirit appears
to go hand in hand with intellectual inquisitiveness. The future of Davidson College can lie in either of two directions:
that of an independent liberal arts college, or that of a church-related institution of higher learning. As a Commission, we
believe that the latter alternative is much to be preferred. We are convinced that, for the most part, Davidson's historical
relation to the church has been constructive and that the future can be built upon that past. We say: “for
the most part” in order to keep faith with the evidence we have gathered. An examination of the appended testimonials
of members of the Commission (faculty, students, and trustees), department chairmen, and the dean of the college, along with an
analysis of the responses given by some faculty, students, and alumni to a questionnaire, reveal that “church relatedness” has its
negative side for many who are intimately involved in and concerned about the life of Davidson. It should be noted
in this connection that while a Calvinist tradition as mediated through the Presbyterian Church, a majority of the complaints arise
out of dissatisfaction with legal strictures that have originated in the Board of Trustees. This circumstance brings to light one
of the ambiguities with which this Commission has been faced throughout its deliberations: Does the Board of Trustees, a large
majority of whose members are elected from and by presbyteries, represent the church or the college? Are they custodians of
the college for the church, or is their primary allegiance to the college? The Board owns the college; but we
say that Davidson is owned and operated by The Presbyterian Church. Furthermore, the only official relationship that the church has
to the college is in the electing of trustees. This is done by a few supporting presbyteries, not by a
synod or the General Assembly. Is it any wonder then that Davidson’s relationship to the church is...Thought of in terms
of the makeup and function of her Board of Trustees? For the moment, however, let us rise above these ambiguities
and recognize the leadership that the church has offered to those who have had the courage to follow.

In 1931, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. recommended that all Presbyterian educational institutions who offered ROTC make
the offering completely voluntary. As an institution, Davidson did not respond affirmatively to this recommendation—until 1969. In 1954, the General
Assembly approved of the Civil Rights Act and recommended that her institutions fulfill its spirit. Davidson had not acted affirmatively
on this matter when, in 1960, the Board of World Missions requested that Presbyterian colleges accept students from the Congo.
This request made it easier for our Board to break the color barrier, first with Congolese and later with native
American Negro students. In the mid-1960s, when the question of banning controversial speakers from college campuses was an important issue
in North Carolina, the President of Davidson felt free to affirm that Davidson would maintain an open campus, and the
Davidson Chapter of AAUP led the fight to kill the speaker ban law. It is interesting that the president and
faculty of a church-related college could and would take the lead in dealing with an issue that threatened the principle
of freedom of speech on state school campuses.

On our campus, there is freedom; freedom to speak one’s mind in class and out; freedom to experiment with curricular
offerings, religious and cultural programs, and recreational activities. There is freedom because there is respect for one another and a
sense of being responsible to all. And we suspect that somehow at Davidson this freedom and responsibility are tied up
with Davidson's commitment to faith with learning.

Not only has the church given inspiration and fostered freedom, but she has also provided financial backing for the college.
Most important of all, she has supplied people: trustees, administrators, faculty, and students. In turn, the college has served the
church in ways appropriate to the function of an educational institution. Administrators and faculty members have served on committees of
the church courts, written materials for church use, and spoken to church groups. Over a fourth of the ministers in
the Presbyterian Church, U.S., attended this college.

Our report in general and our recommendations in particular are designed to show what we believe to be desirable ways
and means of conserving the value inherent in a wholesome church-college relationship—values that will be lost if the college separates
from the church—values that will be jeopardized if the relationship is less than wholesome. The gist of our argument may
be stated quite simply: Davidson should move into the future as a church-related college. And she should not apologize for
this relationship. She should take her statement of purpose seriously. In particular, she should affirm by word and practice her
concern for the whole man to the end that students may find themselves in an environment that is conducive to
the development of a dynamic faith and a spirit of intellectual integrity and vigor. We believe that such an environment
can best be maintained when the relationship with the church is serious but informal rather than juridical and prescriptive. We
do not mean that the church should relinquish all responsibility for supplying members of the Board of Trustees—as our recommendations
bear witness. We are talking in relative rather than in absolute terms. But what we believe to be needed is
a change in outlook, emphasis, and focus.

Perhaps the church should remind herself that just as she has established and sustained hospitals for the purpose of healing,
so she has given birth and life to Davidson for the purpose of educating. Illness and ignorance are to be
fought for Christ's sake.

From a different perspective, the college should rethink its relation to the church. Instead of carping like petulant children, or
assuming the role of administrative prima donnas who could run the college much better than any church-elected Board, we who
make up the college community should daily give thanks for the vision, leadership, and finances which the church has provided.
Without her concern for good education, Davidson would not exist. How should the college express this gratitude? By fulfilling the
purpose for which she was founded: that of becoming an excellent academic institution in which the Christian view of the
world, man, and history are taken seriously—that of developing men of humane instincts who put the service of fellowman above
self-service.

As a church-related college matures, it likes to affirm its own identity and worth. As a good parent, the church
should welcome such signs of growth. And if she is wise, she can find ways and means of keeping the
family intact while acknowledging the offspring as separate and different in structure and purpose.

FINDINGS
(1) Schools responding to our inquiries do not regard religious commitment as inimical to the educational process. Rather, they regard
the religious element as a positive factor on campus.
(2) They tend to regard informal relations between church and college as more desirable than highly formalized and legal ones.
(3) These institutions have minimal religious restrictions on administrators and trustees and none on faculty and students.
(4) None of them feels that academic freedom is jeopardized by the religious affiliation of the institutions.
(5) The American Association of Colleges reports that it finds the religious commitment of institutions to be a rare factor
in complaints about abridgment of academic freedom.
(6) The faculty and students of Davidson do not feel that their academic freedom is circumscribed. But some faculty members
suggest that the lack of variety on the faculty and the proscriptions on certain departments perpetuate an intellectual straightjacket.
(7) Most Davidson faculty, students, and alumni want to see the college retain its church relationship and Christian commitment in
some form.
(8) Most faculty, students, and alumni affirm that Davidson’s church relationship influenced their coming here to some extent.
(9) Most of these three groups feel that the current requirement in the area of courses in religion is about
right.
(10) Most of the faculty and students would like to get rid of the restrictive measures in the official documents
of the college affecting the hiring of administrators and affecting the hiring and granting of tenure to faculty personnel.
(11) Most faculty, students, and alumni feel that the Board of Trustees is unnecessarily large, and that membership on the
Board should be less circumscribed.
(12) A significant number of students is participating in the religious programs on campus.

RECOMMENDATIONS
PROGRAM
That the Religious Policy and the Religious Program Committee be formed into one committee which should be composed of the
College Chaplain, an appropriate number of students, some of the local ministers, and an appropriate number of faculty and administrative
personnel.

Black students
In case of the unexpected increase in the proportion of black students, we recommend that precautions be taken against extensive
re-segregation.

Assignment of Students to Residential Units
Because we believe that the greatest benefits from college are tied to exposure to new and varied experiences, we recommend
that all residential units be composed of students of all four classes and that each year the freshmen be assigned
randomly. For initial assignment of the upperclassmen beyond the provisions (1) that all three upper classes and the freshmen be
represented proportionally and (2) that there be no numerical domination by the members of one or two fraternities.

Composition of Suites
We recommend that there be further study on the assignment of suites, taking into consideration the goal of ensuring diversity
of composition.

Organized Activities of Residential Units
The residential units should seek frequent relatively informal association in the lounges and in the dining areas with faculty members
and with visitors who can contribute to the academic and cultural aspects of the college's program. Perhaps each residential unit
should invite several faculty members to be Fellows who will have frequent contacts with the residents.

Small Group Social Organizations
The college should provide to every student full opportunity for sharing in its social program. Under the present circumstances, social
life is dominated by the twelve fraternities, membership in which is by invitation. The exclusion of some students, whether based
on a single blackball or on a number of negative votes, means that some students do not have an option
that others have. We recognize that there will always be selectivity in the composition of friendship and other groupings, and
we recognize that there are pleasures and advantages inherent in being accepted by a selection-rejection procedure. The majority of the
commission holds that the disadvantages for the rejected students on a campus whose social life is dominated by the organized
and institutionally-chartered selective (exclusive) groups, as operative at Davidson currently, call for restructuring of social organizations to counteract and eliminate
these disadvantages. The majority of the commission regards the college as presently not only condoning but even promoting the domination
of social life by the fraternities, and we recommend that steps be taken to provide full participation in the social
life of the campus by centering social activities in the residential units and permitting all off-campus students to become unrestricted
participants in the social activities of the residential units.

Dining Facilities Associated with Each Residential Unit
To supplement the influences toward community provided by the common lounges of the residential units, we recommend that each residential
unit have its own dining unit and that the dining units now operated by the fraternities be divorced from the
fraternities. There are several ways in which dining units may be operated in connection with residential units, including:

Expansion of College Union Services
The Union may expand its food space and food services and provide a restricted dining area for each residential unit.

New Construction Outside the Union
New dining areas may be built in or adjacent to their respective residential units.

Utilization of Space Now Allotted to Fraternities
A majority of the commission believes that as long as the fraternities continue to operate their dining facilities, the proposal
to center the social life on the campus in the residential units has little or no chance of becoming effective.
