Page Four November 7, 1969 The Davidsonian

Continued from Page 3

Conclusions

Davidson's nationally-ranked basketball teams during the past several years have produced substantial benefits in the form of increased student and
alumni interest and in favorable national publicity which would not have been otherwise available. An investigation proves that this has
been accomplished with little or no academic compromise. When alumni contributions and enlarged gate receipts are taken into consideration, the
cost of fielding a subsidized team of national championship potential is actually less than would have been the net cost
to the college of a nonsubsidized team.

Unfortunately, a school of Davidson's size cannot compete on a national level in football against subsidized teams without some educational
compromise and excessive financial expense.

Recommendations

Basketball: That the college should attempt to maintain basketball at its current level of excellence, at about the present financial
level (in 1969 dollars), and with athletic scholarships not to exceed 20.

Football: That Davidson move toward nonsubsidized football (nonsubsidized means here that the amount of scholarship money awarded to a football
player will be determined by his financial need, as it is for holders of non-athletic scholarships). That the President should
seek out a group of teams inside or outside the Southern Conference with whom we can compete successfully on that
basis. This does not preclude playing with a group which, though subsidized, imposes limits on subsidization below the current practices
of Southern Conference membership, if a nonsubsidized group cannot be found. That until such time as the Board of Trustees
approves a group of the kind just described, the present dollar level of football scholarships should be maintained.

Other Sports: That financial support of other sports should be maintained at about the present level (in 1969 dollars), without
subsidization.

Conference: With the situation in the Southern Conference so uncertain, we recommend that Davidson College take the initiative in proposing
that the (Charlotte Area) Consortium undertake the publication of a journal that will seek and publish articles on current economic,
social, political, and cultural problems, aimed at the educated layman rather than the specialist.

By bringing more people to the campus—both participants coming to learn and to share their personal and practical experience, and
experts coming to present new ideas—we would reduce the sense of isolation which seems increasingly to be a disadvantage in
our situation. Further, the enthusiasm and fresh ideas of our current undergraduates could make many of these Continuing Education programs
more lively, and allow particularly our alumni to meet and come to know some of our current generation of undergraduates.

In relation to an increased involvement of alumni in the intellectual life of the college, we should also consider the
use of interested alumni in expanding the educational resources available to our present undergraduates. Properly supervised internships (such as those
following the model of the Southern Regional Education Board) make it possible for our students to learn about a much
wider range of opportunities than we could provide in our formal curriculum.

A Continuing Education Program will require planning and direction by a full-time Director for Continuing Education. Such an administrator could
seek and develop new ideas, and provide the careful oversight needed for programs of high quality. For the college to
sponsor an increasing number of programs which would bring alumni and others to Davidson, it will be essential that adequate
housing and dining facilities be developed. This was found by our Commission to be a general community need, and one
which the college should properly take the initiative in meeting.

Relations With Our Local Community

In recent years college students have been challenging Administrations and Faculties of colleges and universities to assume a more positive
and responsible role of leadership in dealing with the more pressing problems of the larger community outside the campus. Sometimes
these demands are expressed in terms of making the curriculum more relevant to social and political issues. We find these
developments wholesome and long overdue. As a positive response to them, we recommend that Davidson College designate a member of
the Administrative Staff to be responsible for the area of local community relations. He should be directly responsible to the
President and be able to represent the President in dealing with off-campus agencies in the larger community and to interpret
the policies of the college to the alumni and the general public.

At the present time many faculty skills and interests are under-employed or frustrated because of a lack of leadership and
the failure to establish priorities. The administrator assigned to the area of local community relations should be given the time,
means, and clearly defined job analysis to enable him to accomplish the basic objectives.

Davidson College brings together in its Staff, Faculty, and students a rich and varied collection of skills and resources. It
is indeed ironical that many of its non-academic employees and their families do not share in the benefits of a
community which their labor helps to sustain. Some of these non-academic employees are illiterate or functionally illiterate. Many of these
employees are economically illiterate and stand in need of financial counseling. There may also be a need for a credit
union or consumer's cooperative. The College family has a wide range of skilled persons who can render valuable assistance in
these matters. Beyond this, there may be needs for family counseling and for the tutoring of high school children (of
non-academic employees) who need to be encouraged to consider the possibility of attending college.

Davidson College is to be commended for its program of bringing up to acceptable minimal standards the pay scale and
fringe benefits of non-academic employees. President Spencer is to be commended for his public announcement that black persons will be
employed at the College when vacancies occur and qualified persons are available. However, both types of action may eventually produce
frustration and cynicism unless the College provides a more aggressive type of supervision and job training which will lead to
the upgrading of present job skills. The College has an obligation to provide such training.

Recently a group of our students has concerned itself with the economic status of the cooks who are employed by
the fraternities. There seems to be a considerable variation in wage rates, with some being below the minimum standard the
College pays its own employees. Although the College wishes to give fraternities a considerable amount of freedom in managing their
own affairs, the Administration needs to establish minimum wage standards for the employees of fraternities that will be consistent with
those adopted for the employees of the College.

It is our judgment that the College needs to articulate its own long-range plans for developments. In the light of
its own planning, it should undertake to cooperate fully with the County Planning Commission and the newly organized Town Planning
Committee. There appears to be a need for more organized or coordinated examination of the Davidson community to evaluate the
functioning of existing programs and to identify unmet needs. Recreation, parks and playgrounds, summer activities, adult education, and housing are
the needs that must be faced. The College needs to demonstrate more corporate initiative.and interest in these matters. Although one
member of the Faculty serves as County Commissioner and another is the Director of the Charlotte Oratorio Society, the College
has not made much of an impact on the city of Charlotte, nor has the Faculty utilized to any large
degree for educational purposes the resources of the Charlotte city government, social agencies, the public school system, or the churches.
It would appear that the Departments of Art, Education, Sociology, Political Science, Economics, Religion, Drama, and Music have special opportunities
for relating themselves to agencies and activities in Charlotte, and vice-versa. Although Professor Hight’s Summer Program in Liberal Arts for
Teachers has opened up some interesting possibilities, by and large the resources of Davidson College have not been made available
to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School System. Since the achievement of students in the system has not yet reached national norms, this
area should be a matter of special concern (see ECR, Page 6).

Students commend that Davidson should remain in the Southern Conference until the nature of any changes becomes clearer. During the
transition period for the conference, Davidson should attempt to persuade the conference to adopt ceilings on subsidization that would permit
Davidson to compete successfully on the basis described earlier in these recommendations. In order to cover the very real possibility
that the conference may evolve toward even heavier subsidization than now, Davidson should actively investigate the feasibility of competing with
institutions of academic quality comparable with ours, that have programs preferably unsubsidized or, failing that, less heavily subsidized than those
now existing in the Southern Conference.

Status and Security of Coaches: We recommend that the administration should direct a thorough and conclusive study of the status
and security of athletic personnel, especially with regard to the questions of possible tenure, long-term contracts, faculty status, and financial
security.

Physical education: That the president should inaugurate a detailed study of the physical education program in an effort to make
participation in the program more meaningful for all of the student body.

Facilities: That the college should make every effort to establish and maintain athletic facilities comparable in quality with the rest
of its physical plant, attractive to those interested in athletics, and adequate both for intercollegiate programs and for intramurals and
physical education.

John Belk, Chm.
Charles F. Myers
Lawson Withers
F. W. Johnston
W. G. McGavock
Locke White
A. S. Abbott
Kerry Keith
Joe Kearfott
Rocky Crosswhite

(Continued from Page 2)

This committee should have general oversight of all programming and should encourage new methods of communicating the Christian faith. That
a program be developed which would allow students to observe and possibly participate in the varieties of ministry available, if
the monies be available. This might include arranging for a student to spend the weekend with a minister in the
area, and provide the opportunity to view different types of ministry.

TRUSTEE

That the Board shall consist of forty-two members to be elected as follows: (All members elected for terms of four
years.)

(A) Twenty-four members from the twelve supporting presbyteries with each presbytery electing two members.
(B) Twelve alumni members, one to be elected from and by the graduating class, two to be elected each year
by the Alumni Association.
(C) Two members by the faculty of the College. These shall not be members of the Davidson faculty.
(D) Four members by the Board.

That the Board of Trustees furnish to each supporting presbytery a list of nominees (two for each vacancy) from which
the presbytery is to elect its representatives as vacancies occur.
(A) That the Board of Trustees furnish each year to the Alumni Association a list of four nominees from which
the Alumni Association will elect two.
(B) Those members elected by the graduating class and by the faculty are subject to confirmation by the Board.

That Article II, paragraphs, 3, 4b, and 4c of the By-Laws of the Trustees of Davidson College be rescinded. That
each Trustee be sent a monthly or quarterly newsletter by the Administration informing the members of the Board of the
activities of the College and of pending business of the Board. That the Board write each year a letter to
the presbyteries concerning the current state of the College and of its needs for the future.

COMMUNICATION

The Chaplain’s office and local churches

That a job description be written for the office of College Chaplain. We feel that this is necessary to explain
to the local churches the relationship that the college expects its chaplain to have with them, and we feel that
for the chaplain’s own understanding of his authority and responsibilities this is necessary and helpful. That representatives of the college
and leaders of the major local churches (perhaps the proposed committee to be drawn from the Religious Policy and Religious
Program Committees) prepare a statement depicting the most desirable form of church-college relationship at the local level. That, for the
mutual welfare of the college community and the church congregation, a committee of the administration of the College and of
the Davidson College Presbyterian Church be formed to review the existing covenant between the two institutions in the light of
the College’s present use of the Church facilities.

The College and Church Courts

That the administration recommend the affiliation of ordained faculty members in specific supporting Presbyteries; that it encourage their active participation
in presbytery and synod work; that these faculty members aid in the interpretation of the life of the college to
the church courts and in the interpretation of the actions of the courts to the College; and that the College
pay such faculty members their expenses for the above suggested activities. That the College express to the Board of Higher
Education of the Presbyterian Church and to the church courts its willingness to host church conferences (such as those held
in the recent past dealing with ethics and Christian Doctrine) and to entertain meetings of synod and presbyteries.

FACULTY

That the formal religious requirements for members of the faculty and administration contained in the By-Laws, Article VI, sections 5,
6, 8, 31, and 34 be deleted. That the Dean of the Faculty inform every prospective member of the Christian
aims of the college, using for this purpose the Statement of Purpose of Davidson College, contained in the By-Laws as
Article I, and that he satisfy himself that the prospective faculty member is willing conscientiously and wholeheartedly to teach in
a community having these aims. Such prospective faculty members need not necessarily be professing Christians—indeed we think there will be
circumstances in which it will be desirable, for educational reasons, to recruit non-Christians. But we are confident that, in the
majority of cases, faculty members recruited in this way will be Christians. That the Board of Trustees satisfy itself that
any person selected for the office of President of Davidson College will be able to give effective leadership to the
college in the task of realizing the aims of the college as contained in the Statement of Purpose, and further
that he is prepared to commit himself in good conscience to the statements contained in the Inaugural service prescribed in
Article VI, section 7, of the By-Laws. We note that the person being inaugurated as President undertakes “to be faithful
and diligent in promoting the welfare and development of the College as an institution of Christian learning.” We feel that,
if the President has been selected with this in mind, there is every reason to think that he will be
a Christian. Indeed, we note that the President of the Trustees testifies in this ceremony that he is assured of
the “Christian faith” of the person being inaugurated.

ADMISSIONS

That statement number 4 on the application under Admission—Regular Plan—be altered in such a way as to delete “church youth
advisor” and add “a non-academic person who knows you well” in its place. The same alteration should be made on
the gray recommendation form to be filled out by the minister or church youth advisor. In addition, in statement number
2 on this form the sentence which reads: “Include an indication of the frequency of the applicant's attendance at church
services and the degree of participation” should be deleted. The title of the entire form should be changed to read
“Adult Advisor's Report on Applicant” and below (someone other than a teacher, e.g., minister, scout master, etc.)

Dr. D. D. Rhodes, Chm.
The Rev. Albert B. McClure
Dr. Dickson Phillips
William A. White, Jr.
The Rev. Will H. Terry
The Rev. R. Scott Woodmansee
Dr. W. B. Patterson
Dr. J. B. Stroud
William H. Brown
Kenneth Crews
N. Thomas Norwood
