Che Bauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C. 28036.

ROSIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969

An Educated Bookstore

President Spencer’s announcement this week of a committee to examine and overhaul the function of the college bookstore is a
move many members of the college community have advocated for a long time. It is a recognition of the view
that the bookstore can serve as a part of the educational process by making a large selection of books available.

The bookstore is currently operated as an “Auxiliary Enterprise,” and according to the treasurer’s report for the last fiscal year,
it made a profit of over $8,500. The sentiment of members of the committee is toward making the bookstore an
entirely nonprofit educational facility by using surplus funds to expand the inventory. In this way, a much larger selection of
books would be made available to the college community. The bookstore can be removed from the list of auxiliary enterprises
which are expected to make a profit, such as the dormitories, laundry, and Union cafeteria.

There is a definite need for a large bookstore, since the nearest well-stocked bookstore is in Chapel Hill. We commend
Dr. Spencer's action in establishing this committee. Needless to say, we are also glad he has asked the SGA president
to appoint three students to it.

The Professor’s Role

When we examined the role of the Davidson professor in our last issue, we touched only briefly on the most
important aspect of his job—his role as friend and adviser to students. This role is built upon two factors—availability and
desire to communicate directly with individual students.

We find in the reference catalogue, buried amidst a maze of idealistic assertions about Davidson, a statement which is explanatory
of this role. “In implementing its purpose to promote higher learning,” the catalogue says, “Davidson has chosen to be a
college, to maintain itself as a small community of learners, to emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors, and to
ensure the opportunity for personal relationships between students and teachers.”

Without making the unfounded assertion that this close relationship is characteristic of all Davidson professors, there does seem to be
a genuine motivation on the part of the majority to foster such relationships. They hold regular office hours and are
generally available for private consultation with a student on any matter. The ill-attended open houses are another effort they make
to improve this relationship.

In an era when committee work and faculty scholarship are often emphasized at the expense of teaching and advising, Davidson
is fortunate to have maintained such an atmosphere. Davidson students are lucky not to have to suffer the pangs of
having graduate school instructors or seeing their professors only in class. They ought to value highly the privilege of having
an informal chat with a professor or drinking coffee with him at the Union. In an impersonal age, as Davidson
undergoes something of an identity crisis, this is one tradition which ought to be preserved at any cost. The loss
of such relationships would be a stumbling block to Davidson’s future.

The Tickets Gripe

Athletic ticket policy seems like a small matter when compared to the Blue Sky curriculum, the Code of Responsibility, and
the commissions exploring ways to improve the college and college life. Yet, like it or not, if there is one
element which binds this campus together, it is the basketball team. And one sure way of disrupting student life is
to make it difficult or impossible for students to see the games.

We don’t mean to imply that the Athletic Department is intentionally disrupting student life, of course, but it does seem
obvious that inconsistent ticket policy this year has led to well-founded student gripes. The failure of the Athletic Department to
make known its ticket policy concerning the St. John’s game, for instance, made it impossible for most students to get
date tickets; a considerable number could not even get tickets for themselves. Then at the Citadel game two weeks later,
instead of allowing students to enter the game with dates by showing their I.D. cards, it was announced the afternoon
before that students would have to pick up date tickets at the gym after 5:30 on the night of the
game. That also just happened to be a concert weekend, so this procedure resulted in a long line at the
ticket office and much inconvenience. Ironically but not surprisingly, several students got tickets but could not find seats. Too many
tickets were sold.

We realize that the difficulties of providing tickets to a nationally-ranked team’s games are great. At the same time, however,
we believe that there should be a list of priorities. And the first of those should be this: the Wildcats
are, first, a team of students, for the students. The Athletic Department should seek first of all to provide students
and their dates with tickets, then divvy up the rest among the alumni and general public. If the some 9,000
remaining seats at the coliseum aren’t enough, let them watch it on Channel 3.

Beyond Its Usefulness

A few years ago, a distinguished member of the Board of Trustees delivered a Vespers sermon to a crowd of
students who made it plain they wished they were someplace else. And so a little later on, when the board
deliberated the fate of compulsory Vespers, this member recalled his lethargic congregation and argued for an end to that institution.
Vespers, he said, had outlived its usefulness.

In view of recent chapel programs, we think the same might be said for that practice, too. Student boredom with,
and resentment of, chapel has been spilling over into coughs, walk-outs, and rude clapping. Pity the poor speakers who have
to contend with it, for even good points are buried under the rustle of newspapers. Men who are not accustomed
to abuse leave this campus with a bitter distaste for the college and its student body.

We do not condone the behavior of the student body, but we can understand it. The faculty gave up on
chapel long ago, at least judging from its attendance Tuesday: five professors, including the one on the stage. One might
contend that the faculty knows all there is to know and therefore does not stand to gain anything from attending
chapel. Or perhaps the faculty finds most programs as dull as we do and prefers sipping coffee in the Union
to a mid-morning snooze.

President Spencer has promised to investigate the matter thoroughly, holding out the prospect of “substantial revision,” and his new joint
student-faculty committee on extra-classroom responsibilities has chapel at the top of its list. We only hope the president and his
committee will see what ought to be done. Obviously, the solution is the abolition of the awful thing. Trimming down
the number of programs won't reduce student apathy or make the programs any better. This year’s reduced load of speakers
proves that beyond a doubt.

Why not invite speakers on a regular basis, advertise the program and then hold it in Perkins or Hodson or
the Morrison Room? Those interested in the subject could attend, and the rest could stay in bed. Surely any speaker
would rather have 50 listeners than 800 sleepers. As one student put it, “There’s so much noise in chapel, you
can’t even sleep there.”

“I got the idea during a chapel program”

LETTERS

Students Criticize Assembly Behavior

To The Editor:

Davidson's conduct at the assembly at which Dr. Paul Miller spoke Jan. 30 left much to be desired. Though not
the best speaker we've had all year, he nevertheless made what we think were pertinent points and certainly deserved more
than having oversized juveniles walking out, throwing wads of paper at each other, and laughing at him.

Assembly may be an ordeal, a waste of time, and a downright bore, but common decency demands that anybody taking
the time to come here and speak deserves to be treated with courtesy. In an academic institution, all arguments made
in a formal talk should be listened to with respect, and if disagreement exists, it should be brought out with
logic during coffee hour, not with tasteless groanings from the back of the auditorium.

John E. Taylor, ‘71
Brian J. Shelburne, ‘71
Tom Maxwell, ‘71

Davidson College

To The Editor:

It seems that those members of the faculty or administration, who are standing in the way of voluntary assembly, have
little or no regard for the speakers they present.

The attitude of the student body

From Our Wire Services

Advisers close to the Pope said last night that another church-wide council was “imminent” as a result of the new
doctrine of post-midnight evil announced last month by an obscure psychology professor in Davidson, N. C.

The new theological breakthrough, attributed to Richard C. Perks Jr., has also produced a novel movement within the Presbyterian Church,
U.S. “It is entirely possible that Richard Perks will become the first Presbyterian saint in the history of this protestant
church,” said General Assembly Moderator Terry J. James, also of Davidson.

“The next assembly is expected to declare him Saint Richard,” James added.

At Vatican City, the Pope's advisers also indicated that an encyclical on evil control, entitled Humani Mali, would be forthcoming.
Many of Perks’ statements are expected to be quoted in the new pronouncement.

The post-midnight evil doctrine did not meet withwill not be changed, and the result is humiliation of every speaker and
of Davidson College. After the treatment of our Wailing Wall, let THE DAVIDSONIAN be a wailing wall.

We welcome letters from any reader on any subject. Letters received by 6 p.m. Tuesday will usually be printed in
that week’s paper unless adequate space is not available—in which case the letter will be reserved for later publication.

The most recent speaker, it is easy to see the course that must be taken. The necessity of a rebuke
of the student body, however mild it was, makes it evident that student resentment is hitting a peak. Any future
speakers under a required program will be subject to increasing torment and ridicule. Is that the purpose of the program?
Why not face reality and present the assembly programs for a worthwhile purpose? Under present circumstances, the embarrassment is felt
not only by the speaker, but also by those in the audience and everyone connected with Davidson College.

Jack Hartman, ‘72
Davidson College

Myth Destroyed
To The Editor:

Sometimes the disparity between myth and reality becomes simply ludicrous.

THE MYTH: Self-styled Hamiltonian Sam Tallman as quoted in THE DAVIDSONIAN: “Such a college (referring to Davidson, we suppose) provides
an atmosphere that is free from the value (sic) of the masses... The private church school has tried to perpetuate
the real meaning of aristocracy, and I mean by this the leadership of those truly qualified to lead." (What a
pile of CRAP!!)

THE REALITY: The performance of some Davidson students in chapel Tuesday. Granted, required chapel at present is an offensive institution.
Does this mean we have to embarrass ourselves and guests by our boorish behavior? The student body seems unable to
make up its mind on how to attack the chapel issue. Should it be abolished because students as a body
are too boorish and myopic to get anything out of it? (Believe it or not the speaker Tuesday did have
something to say.) Or should it be abolished because students are mature, responsible individuals quite capable of deciding for themselves
what is worthwhile and what is not? The latter approach would certainly be most consistent with the Code of Responsibility.
Such behavior as that Tuesday makes it difficult to take students or the idea of student responsibility seriously.

Berkley Latimer, ’69
Randy Phillips, ‘69
Davidson College

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Mistrusting The Trustees

Some academic mechanic ought to overhaul the selection of the Board of Trustees—and a few of the board’s bylaws as
well. Fifty-one men now serve on the board, the governing body for Davidson. Twelve of these are elected by the
Alumni Association. The 37 others are elected by the presbyteries of the Synod of North Carolina, by two presbyteries in
Florida, and by the Asheville (N.C.) presbytery. Seventeen of the men elected by the presbyteries are ministers. Not one trustee
elected by the Alumni Association is a minister.

Fifty-one men. That’s one-20th of the student body. And for a group that meets together as a group only twice
a year, that’s about 25 men too many. The faculty’s Self-Study Report has already recommended that the number of trustees
be reduced. A board with 51 members is simply too large to govern the college effectively. Sure, everybody gets a
committee assignment, but what do some of these committees do? How much can an unwieldy group of 51 men hope
to accomplish? How can all know enough about an issue to vote intelligently? One trustee has pointed out that “the
smaller the group, the better the action.” Makes sense, doesn’t it?

Reducing the size of the board would necessitate changing the selection process. If fewer men served on the board obviously
somebody must lose some of his representation. It's time the presbyteries lost some of theirs; it’s time to prune away
some of the deadwood on the board. The risk of allowing presbyteries to elect a preponderance of the trustees is
that the presbyteries may be out of touch with the situation at Davidson College, and, further, the presbyteries may not
always keep the best interests of the college at the forefront when electing trustees.

Why the presbyteries seem to think that it is vital to elect ministers to the board is beyond my comprehension.
Davidson is not a seminary. And by necessity, the presbyteries elect Presbyterians. Yes, Presbyterians may be liberal, and, yes, Presbyterian
ministers at least have been educated somewhere, but Presbyterian ministers and Presbyterians may also represent the same viewpoint.

Davidson simply does not need any more of this incestuous inbreeding, this inbreeding which brings out the worst characteristics of
the church and the college. It tends unreasoningly to maintain the status quo, tends to enforce religiosity, and it definitely
reinforces a provincial outlook.

I do not advocate Davidson’s divorcing itself from the church. But as far as trustee selection and the trustee bylaws
go, some of them a direct product of the Davidson-church relationship, I do advocate reform. Binding Davidson to the church
with this religious umbilical cord will be disastrous. The church should cut this cord and should allow its child, the
college, to assume adult status. A more mature college-church relationship is necessary now; Davidson has sucked at the church’s teat
long enough.

The trustees should free the college from just such narrow and limiting bylaws as the ones which follow. These rules
certainly do not aid the cause of academic freedom, free inquiry, confrontation, nor even the cause of Christianity and the
church. Such bylaws as these are manifestations of the disease of pious religiosity and narrow denominationalism:

—“Whenever a person is recommended for (faculty) tenure, the Administration, through the Education Committee, shall certify to the Trustees that
on the basis of thorough investigation they are convinced that the nominee:
* is committed to the Christian faith and is a member of a Christian church.
* Comprehends the Statement of Purpose of the College and intends to promote this purpose.
—“The Trustees shall elect as the President of the College only a person who is loyal and active churchman, giving
evidence by his life of the strength of his Christian faith and commitment. No person shall be eligible for election
as President of the College unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church and he shall not be eligible
for inauguration unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church of the United States.
—“A majority of the Faculty and a majority of the full professors shall be members of some branch of the
Presbyterian Church.”

I find the narrowness of these governing rules incredible. Unless these bylaws, and others like them, are changed, Davidson can
never attain any more relevance, nor greatness as an educational institution, than it already has attained.

I do not advocate the wholesale revocation of religious stipulations in regard to the presidency of the college nor to
the composition of its faculty. But I am convinced that some person-to-person confrontation, some representation of non-Christian and non-religious views
are valid religious educational procedures. And how can anyone around here talk about ecumenism when the trustees blatantly state that
no one but a member of the Presbyterian Church in the United States is fit to be president of the
college? The provincial pettiness of such bylaws makes me sick at my stomach.

Does ROTC Build Men?
To The Editor:

I wonder if I should have gotten out of ROTC. It seems that classes are becoming progressively more exciting. In
one of the recent class meetings the problem of confronting the enemy was discussed. There are two objectives to the
Army's method of fighting. The first is to destroy the enemy and the other is to capture him, or in
the case of Vietnam, possibly her. Because of the trouble involved, killing takes priority over capturing.

It takes an “action guy” to kill someone without thinking why. To quote from an Army booklet entitled “The Mark
of a Man”: “An action guy can't just wait for things to happen... he makes them happen. As a combat
soldier you're it. You're the teeth and claws of the Army. There's no battle... no victory... and no lasting peace
without you."

The last statement is rather paradoxical. Peace doesn't thrive when battles are being fought. However, I guess that I'm not
man enough to kill anyone just because someone tells me to commit such insanity. Maybe I am a “chicken” because
I can’t murder anyone. Maybe I'm spineless because I can’t obey an order to kill. Yes, I really wonder if
I should have gotten out of ROTC.

Tippy Lenge, ‘72
