The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Rommer Hooker Editor-in-Chief
Mike Johnson Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 1969

Fraternities Itinerary

No mental patient ever had a strait jacket so confining as the one that is being imposed on Davidson fraternities
by their national offices. Admittedly, there are a few things that can be said for national fraternities, but they are
very few indeed. When you start listing their advantages, you run out of items pretty quickly.

For all that nationals require — many dollars and many rules — they offer comparatively little in return. A gaudy
pin, a name that makes conversation fodder back home, perhaps some house furniture, a few scholarships and funds from which
to borrow. It's hardly worth the price.

Emancipation from national bondage, on the other hand, would do much for Patterson Court. For one thing, money that could
be spent locally would not be sunk into the abyss of national coffers (one house here estimates it would save
itself over $4,000 annually). For another, Davidson houses could abandon the anachronistic rules and ritual hocus-pocus that have been handed
down for years by a bunch of slightly tight, back-slapping old fogeys at yearly fraternal conventions. And, of course, we
would be spared all the superfluous paperwork and the occasional visits of national grand dragons and other assorted big-wigs.

Most of all, though, going local would be a long stride toward fixing what is so grievously wrong in Davidson’s
one-sided social picture. Freed from the shackles of national offices, the Davidson houses would be in an infinitely better position
to work for alternative outlets that provide social opportunities for every student on campus, be it through 100 percent affiliation
or what-have-you. In fact, if going local doesn't start opening other doors — for all students — then it's not
worth the trip. It should never be conceived as an end in itself — only a start toward other ends.
We would be slightly deranged not to try to shed the strait jacket.

In The Bologna Class

One of the candidates for SGA president recommended this week the hiring of a professional admissions recruiter. “Student recruiters from
here have found it hard to follow a professional recruiter from a place like Harvard,” he said, “We need one
ourselves.”

Granted, Harvard is a tough act to follow, especially for a college with a pronounced regional atmosphere. But the problem
of recruiting involves more than hiring a traveling representative. In fact, the Admissions Office here has found that many high
school counselors hold professional recruiters in low regard. Many would prefer mature, well-prepared student representatives over professional salesman types.

In most cases, a salesman is only as good as his product. Naturally, it is easier to sell steak over
bologna and Harvard over Davidson, no matter if the salesman is a student or full-time professional. This will continue to
be the case until Davidson's name is spread north of the Potomac and west of the Catawba.

Of course, a recruiter would help. In fact, we hope the college will hire one in the near future, and
we understand such a move is being considered. But, on the other hand, this is not going to be a
solution to admission woes. Until Davidson undertakes the bold steps which have been debated in the last few years, its
representatives will still be in the bologna class.

Possible Merger Mate

There are good deals at Mary Baldwin. The Virginia girls’ college, former home of President Spencer, has appointed a new
president, William Kelly, currently head of the honors college at Michigan State. And in newspaper interviews last week, Dr. Kelly
expressed his interest in the idea of Mary Baldwin's going coed by merger with a men's school.

Baldwin is a merger mate that any haughty bachelor would be proud to get. It has satisfactory academic standards and
a student body of 750 women. It has no room for further expansion at its present campus and would have
to move to merge. For a men's college considering going coed by merging with a women's college which would establish
a coordinate campus adjacent to it, Baldwin looks like a good deal.

Davidson College has been following a policy of educational virginity long enough. Drinking in our rooms is no substitute for
feminine companionship. The bookish but young scholars who throng the halls of Chambers each day and the campuses of Queens,
Converse et al each weekend need a social outlet closer to home, one that will foster less superficial attitudes toward
the opposite sex than we now have. We need to learn that girls are people, too. It cannot be maintained
that the process of education proceeds most rapidly in a unisexual environment. Davidson College will never have a diverse student
body until it has girls.

Fair Weather Friend

It probably won't make the Alumni Bulletin, but a recent event in alumni circles deserves at least a passing note.
And that would be the demise, at the age of 89, of Dr. Isley Boone, ‘03, perhaps Davidson's most unique
— and most ignored — son.

Diversity must have been thrust on Isley Boone, for in his long life he was many things: Davidson drop-out (but
so was Woodrow Wilson), Baptist minister, magazine publisher and nudist. Precisely why he left Davidson around 1900 has never been
clear. Perhaps he found it too confining. At any rate, from that day on he ignored the college, and the
college apparently ignored him right back. Such a waste of potential college propaganda! Here was an alumnus whose unique contributions
could have been exploited.

At first Boone was a Baptist minister, but for some reason he found the cloth unsuitable and discarded it in
1931, becoming a nudist. Popular legend has it that he was struck down on the road to Damascus and all
his clothes were burned off. Thereafter, though, he accumulated a number of accomplishments: founder of the Sunshine Park nudist camp
in Mays Landing, N.J.; leader of the National Nudist Council; and publisher of “Sunshine and Health,” official magazine for the
American Sunbathing Association. Hardly a bare existence, that.

Boone never let his nudism conceal his interests, however, and in a 1962 speech, he came up with a sure-fired
way to end war that the Paris negotiators would do well to heed. “It would be hard to tell which
man was your enemy,” said he, “if all the soldiers wore no clothes.” We dare say Woodrow Wilson and Dean
Rusk themselves could do no better.

NCAA - Scholarship Rights Endangered

By BOB DUNHAM
Sports Editor

In a marvelous display of apathy within its membership, the National Collegiate Athletic Association national convention two weeks ago stirred
only 43 percent of its members to vote on a proposal which would change the entire relationship between student athletes
and the universities. The result was one which could spell trouble, might be disastrous.

In one of the most radical and controversial decisions since the point-shaving rule passed its membership, the NCAA passed the
following rule: “A member institution may terminate the financial aid of a student-athlete if he is adjudged to have been
guilty of manifest disobedience through violation of institutional regulations or established athletic department policies and rules applicable to all student-athletes.”

Of the 719 member colleges, only 346 members cast ballots, and the final vote in favor of passage was 179-79.
The result is revolutionary to say the least.

A DAVIDSONIAN reporter questioned Dr. Frontis Johnston, chairman of the Faculty Committee on Athletics, about Davidson’s reaction to the issue,
and though Johnston declined to say how the college voted, he indicated that Davidson favored the change in the rule.

To many observers the rule seems to teardown the sideline which then protected student athletes from the whims of unpredictable
coaches. And after careful consideration of all of the underlying intents which can be understood in the law, one must
argue, Robert Lipayte, in a nationally syndicated column, suggested recently that the edit was “ostensibly passed to give coaches a
meaner whip over the rambunctious black scholarship athletes whose disobediences have ranged from the crowing of women on birth control
to the forgetting of matches with colleges that practice racial discrimination.” The rule in this sense gives the black athletes
the opportunity to express their feelings about racial policies. This is severe enough. But it also goes further. The implication
of the rule is that athletic departments can, for the smallest excuse, take away scholarships from boys who have failed
to perform up to the exacting standards and expectations. An athlete can no longer maintain his scholarship merely by trying
out for the team. Now he must please the coach in every respect, for if he crosses him in any
way, the hatchet meets his scholarship support rope. It would indeed be nice if students could trust every coach to
use good sense and fairness to all athletes under the new rule. But human nature just isn't that way, and
under the new rule the student athlete who has a personality conflict with the coach is going to be the
one who suffers. Walter Byers, the NCAA's executive secretary, was reported recently to have responded to this suggestion of coaches’
misuse of the rule by saying “Oh, that's a lot of hogwash. There are no such coaches.” One doesn't have
to go very far before he finds a contradiction to that statement. A lot of coaches are upset because they
made recruiting errors, picked guys who aren't as good as they thought. The fact of the matter is that the
NCAA has subjected student-athletes to ruthless power in many cases, when the student athletes had absolutely no voice in the
matter. It seems that the NCAA, which has long championed the cause of the student athletes in America, has finally
turned on the student. The NCAA is now thinking more of its member institutions than of the students who make
the NCAA possible. Indeed, as Lipayte suggested, the students have now been reclassified as “employees.” It’s time for someone to
speak for the athletes, and even if it takes a student nationwide boycott of NCAA events to effect the change,
the rule should be overruled.

Sean.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

The Power Of The Student Nigger

The position of the student is analogous to that of the nigger. The nigger—that ludicrous Southernism for the black man.
The term implies inferiority, disenfranchisement and, in general, political impotence. In the black revolution which is now taking place, the
nigger has found that the surest way for him to become a Black Man, with rights and equality, is to
exercise his power of coercion, the creation of political and economic tensions which intimidate the white establishment. This tension brings
results. Escalate these tensions to a fever pitch, and create the ultimate weapon, the riot.

Students have this same sort of power, the power of coercion and, if necessary, the scare-the-hell-out-of-them power of the riot.
But, paradoxically, these student powers at Davidson are cloaked in that amorphous term, student “government.” Student “government” is no government,
mainly because the real legislative power at Davidson resides not with the students, but with the faculty and administration, and
ultimately with the trustees. Sure, student “government” can provide more phones in the dorms, more vending machines. And it can
draw up a new constitution and a code of responsibility. But when major changes occur, they are brought about by
the vote of the faculty and then, finally, by a vote of the trustees. At best, student “government” can only
be a lobbying force, an organized group that will pressure the faculty who in turn will pressure the trustees. This
pressure, this coercion is the power that brings about change on this campus. Student “government,” then, is merely a euphemism.
A students’ lobby would be more accurately descriptive. I am convinced that if changes are to be made on this
campus, they will be the result of scaring the hell out of the faculty, administration and trustees. The changes of
the past seem to have been brought about in the same manner. Simple coercion was enough in each case. Nobody
threatened violence, but student niggers could have. Take the abolition of required vespers, for instance. The student niggers who slept
through vespers, who wrote letters during the service, who came dressed in blue jeans, and best yet, who passed out
drunk on the floor of the balcony of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church during vespers, first of all convinced the
student “government,” if it needed convincing, that the vespers services added nothing to religiosity at Davidson. So the process of
coercion began. The faculty became convinced that vespers should be abolished, and then the faculty convinced the trustees. Voila, no
more vespers. The same thing goes for the Code of Responsibility, which is another Davidson euphemism that translates “drinking on
campus” and “women in the dorms.” Student niggers first showed their power of coercion by flagrantly disobeying the faculty's drinking
rule. And the administration really couldn't exercise their power for the rule's enforcement. Student niggers continue to show their power
of coercion by fornicating in the dorms—admittedly, this violation is not nearly so openly observable as drinking violations were in
the past. But the fact is that Davidson had “open dorms” before anyone ever thought about a CRAP report. So,
in abolishing the drinking rule and opening the dorms, the same processes of coercion brought about change. The catch to
all of this is that students merely appear to have legislative power when in reality students have only coercive power.
So, now that everybody is duly elected, student “government” can continue to perpetuate its own myth.

Faculty Exam Decision Draws Williams’ Fire

To The Editor:

On Tuesday the faculty voted down a proposal whereby students might schedule their own examinations within a four-day period approximately
corresponding with the present exam period. As the chief instigator of this plan and a student member of the faculty
Educational Policies Committee, which recommended it unanimously to the faculty, I will be questioned as to why I am greatly
incensed over their decision. The purpose of this plan was to take some of the pressure off students during an
especially traumatic time of the year and to allow them to do the best possible job on their exams. Since
exams sometimes count as much as two-thirds of the grade in a course and since grades seem to be so
important in this modern world, it seems only fair to give the student a chance to do his best on
each exam. Some faculty members protest that students have plenty of time to study for exams or that they should
have learned the material during the semester, but there are still some students who have two exams on the same
day or two extremely hard exams back-to-back. If examinations are intended to make the student organize the course material in
his own mind, he can best do this by having adequate time to prepare for the exam the day before
that exam. It would be very hard for any faculty member to refute this argument. This plan was not hastily
conceived. The committee has been working on it since the beginning of the year and has studied the details carefully
as well as ironed out all the wrinkles. Similar plans are now in effect at other colleges quite similar to
Davidson, such as Haverford College, and are apparently working quite successfully. In fact, the first material I used in conceiving
this plan was gotten through President Spencer from a friend of his at Mary Baldwin, where the system works very
well. What makes the faculty's decision seem even more intolerable is that the plan was put only on a trial
basis. If they did not like it after trying it for a year or two for one term, they could
do away with it and return to the original system. In an era when students and faculty are working very
closely on college policy, there remains one unalterable distinction between the two groups: students are paying to get their education,
and faculty members are being paid to help them get it. For this reason the faculty should be thinking seriously
about ways to improve the method of educating students simply because it is their job. Those faculty members who voted
against this proposal because it might decrease their vacation by a couple of days have done so on mighty shaky
grounds and might reconsider their duty to students more carefully.

John P. Williams, '69
Davidson College
