Page Six February 28, 1969 The Davidsonian

Outside Perspective
By DICK ANDERSON

Automatic “A” Draws Dickinson Nay

Professor Ralph Sandler of Dickinson College recently experimented with informing his students in English 380 that all students would receive automatic A's. Sandler listed three reasons for his policy in a statement given to The Dickinsonian, the student newspaper. Sandler said that he opposed grading because it is used by teachers to intimidate students, it places too much emphasis on competition for an “arbitrarily assigned letter,” and “it is a false and destructive method” of disciplining students in a way Sandler believes to be “antithetical to... the aims of liberal education.”

The Dickinson faculty replied by issuing a statement that all students in English 380 would receive a grade of “A*”, with the asterisk referring to a footnote stating that the grade was given as “an experiment in educational motivation.” However, this compromise was not accepted by the students in English 380 and was therefore negated, as it had been made contingent upon their agreement. One senior taking the course wrote a letter to the editor of The Dickinsonian stating that he felt that the faculty committee which had suggested the compromise had perpetrated a tragedy when it thwarted “such a potentially beautiful experiment.”

Lehigh IFC Discusses Blackball

The Interfraternity Council at Lehigh University has three times tabled a motion to replace the blackball with a system in which 20 percent of the membership would have to vote against a rushee to prevent his being accepted. According to the student newspaper, the Brown and White, it is unlikely that the motion will pass with the necessary two-thirds majority. This prediction is based on the results of a straw vote taken on the proposal. The IFC president said that the fraternities are opposed to the blackball, but do not want the IFC to regulate their use of it.

Chapel Hill Cafeteria Workers Strike

Cafeteria workers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill have walked off their jobs and called for a general boycott of the cafeterias in an effort to gain higher pay and better working conditions. Members of the Black Student Movement at UNC-CH are trying to help the workers but have not been allowed to take part in negotiations between the university and the workers, although they have attended meetings. Apparently, no students are among the workers in the walkout. —The Charlotte Observer

Radcliffe Debates Absorption into Harvard

Radcliffe alumni are debating a proposal to become completely absorbed into Harvard College. Radcliffe is the co-ordinate women’s college of Harvard. According to the New York Times, complete integration with Harvard would be merely a continuation of Radcliffe’s progress since its founding. The president of the Radcliffe alumni association said that she saw two reasons for wondering about the value of complete integration in Harvard. She cited the possibilities that the thousand Radcliffe girls might be swallowed up in the larger Harvard student body and that the Radcliffe alumni might not be able to enjoy themselves as much at reunions which would include Harvard men. This lady graduated from Radcliffe in 1920.

NSA Employs Counsel To Defend Youth Fare
By GEORGE PARKS
Staff Writer

The United States National Student Association (NSA) will fight the recommendations of a Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) examiner calling for the abolition of youth fares as “unjustly discriminatory,” and has retained legal counsel to prepare briefs and oral arguments for presentation before the CAB. The announcement of NSA’s action came from Services Division director Alan C. Handell, who noted that at present the Association is the only group representing student users of the airline youth fare which will make arguments before the Federal board. The Civil Aeronautics Board has recommended that the Youth Fare offered by many airlines be abolished because it discriminates against those over 25 years of age. According to Cecil Tennet, Station Manager for Delta at Charlotte, “Airlines had to file the tariff for Youth Fares before they could issue Youth Cards. The C.A.B. can therefore remove Youth Cards.” Mr. Larry Noble, Station Manager for Southern Airlines at Charlotte, says that “the C.A.B. has taken no action so far. The Youth Fare is under review because someone has claimed discrimination. The C.A.B. is a board similar to Senate investigation committees.”

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SCHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
BIFF FINE

News Editor:
JOHN ROWE

Assistant Managing Editors:
STEVE CROSS
BILL LINEAWEAVER

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Dan Johnston, Jim Phillips, Gene Linton, Dick Anderson, Tom Sinks, John Williams, Bob Kreitner, Joe Smith, Bill Sherwood, Jule Young, Steve Williams, George Park, Mark Hedges, Danny Coltrane, Cecil Burney, David Grissett, Norwood Poland, Dick Hinson, Charlie Terrell, and Don Parman.

RESTRUCTURING POSSIBLE

Activities Fee Draws Study
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Increasing headaches in the allocation of the $25 student fee may spark a restructuring of the fee in the near future, Business Manager Robert A. Currie said this week. Demands on this year's fee total $31,000, which is $6,000 over income. Depending on the fee for part or all of their support are the publications, student government, and the artist series. Currie catalogued the current difficulties with the fee:

—Demands outstrip income, but due to a policy of several years, the fee is protected from an increase by the trustees.
—The fee, even were it to change, is set in October of the year before it is used. This prevents any editor or student government president from having a say in the funding of his own administration.
—Exactly what should be supported by the fee is not clear. Although the fee currently supports publications, student government, and the artists series, suggestions have been expressed that the radio station and SGA symposium be included, and the artists series be dropped.
—The Quips and Cranks is faced with the question of whether to charge organizations for space in the annual, a practice long followed but now under question.

The business manager suggested two ways around the inflexibility of the fee, which is for now made livable by yearly college supplements to the fee. One way would be to let the fee vary, being set in the spring before the following school year. In this case, the trustees would delegate to the administration the right to raise or lower the fee within certain bounds. “That would leave under trustee jurisdiction any major change in the program,” Currie explained. Because the first alternative delays setting of the fee past the catalogue printing deadline, and makes it difficult for incoming students to depend on definite college costs, Currie indicated he favored a “planned reserve,” from which funds could be taken to supplement activities fund while the fee itself was raised for the following year.

Currie also raised the problem of what was to be supported by the fee, and suggested that students should set priorities in what they preferred, and decide how much support they were willing to offer. Citing suggestions to include or exclude various student activities, the college treasurer said the “SGA is going to have to define what it wants in the activities fee.” He noted that the Red and Black Masquers and the Debaters had once been supported.

Students Swarm To Study Abroad
By GEORGE PARK
Staff Writer

Next fall one of the largest groups yet will leave Davidson to spend their junior year abroad. According to Dr. W. H. Walker of the French Department, the popularity of the Junior Year Abroad program has increased steadily in the last few years. There are now more students that want to study in France than the program can accommodate. Walker attributes the increased interest in the program partly to the greater publicity it has received during recent years. The limit of 13 Davidson students will study in Montpellier next year. They are: George Allen, David Buck, Joe Coalter, Bennet Cowan, Harlan Day, David Eason, Steve Engstrom, Al McGraw, Roger Peterson, Norwood Poland, Mike Roth, David Sams, Tim Shuba, Homer Sutton, and John Taylor.

Three other students, Harrison Higgins, Bill New, and Bill Pearsall applied for the French Program. They will serve as alternates should any of the students going change his mind. Otherwise, these three may participate in one of several programs open to them at other schools.

The 13 students who will be studying at Marburg, Germany, are: Dick Anderson, Roger Clark, Brad Danielson, Steve Hall, Charles Katz, Carl Nordstrom, Jeff Ritchie, Pat Reed, Brian Shelbourne, Tim Shelton, Brian Smith, David Wells, and Ed Wilkinson. Gary Cash will be studying at Munster, Germany on a Rotary Scholarship. Duane Kirkman and Jule Young will be studying at East Anglia University in England. Applying to other schools in Britain are Steven Hemphill and Peter Lutken. John Bowen will go to Madrid on a program sponsored by Georgetown University.with the fee, but were later dropped when funds came in from the newly-created Drama Department. Even if the $31,000 requested for this year is approved, there is still the annual's problem of organization pictures. The Q&C currently charges each organization at a set rate per page of the annual, and some organizations have refused to pay for coverage, among them Phi Beta Kappa. If the organization fees are dropped — and Currie hinted this was a good possibility since they are seen as unfair to students in several organizations — another $3,000 must be added to the Q&C budget, for which 40 percent of the activities fee now goes.

Hazing Not Permitted Here, Terry Warns Fraternities
By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

Fraternities this week got a reminder from their administrative adviser that “hazing” is strictly taboo at Davidson. Acting in his capacity as adviser to fraternities, Assistant Dean of Students James J. Terry Jr. sent a letter to all Davidson fraternity presidents reminding them that North Carolina laws as well as national fraternity rules and college regulations forbid hazing. Terry's letter quoted the College Fraternity Secretaries Association definition of hazing as any act or situation intentionally designed “to produce mental or physical discomfort, embarrassment, harassment or ridicule.” The letter said that the ban applied to activities on and off fraternity premises. Examples given were treasure and scavenger hunts, paddling in any form, road trips and the wearing of clothing not normally in good taste. Terry noted that the clothing example did not include the shirts traditionally worn by pledges during Greek Week. “There are state laws against hazing that say very specifically that it is the duty of the faculty to expel students involved in hazing in addition to any punishment imposed by a court,” Terry said. He added that it would be a misdemeanor for the college to shirk this responsibility. “It works both ways,” Terry said, explaining that the order would apply to pledges raiding their fraternity brothers’ rooms as well as shower parties by either side. “Nothing has happened to bring this on,” Terry said. He said the order was not to be interpreted as a crackdown but added that the college “will not close its eyes to anything.” “I don't think that hazing can make a contribution to a constructive pledge education program,” Terry said. Noting that several national fraternities had alerted local chapters of lawsuits resulting from injuries incurred in hazing, Terry said, “You're playing with dynamite when you play with hazing.”

White (Continued From Page 1)

students. The easiest policy would be to have them send in a postcard to be considered, but the results would not be adequate,” he said. This leads to the problem of recruitment and White says that the admissions office has “been asking for and receiving” substantial student help for the last five or six years. “I think students are the best recruiters you can have. If a student can sell his guidance counselor back home on the quality of Davidson he has made a big contribution. This is particularly true in private schools.” White said that he felt that the new curriculum and other recent changes at Davidson will be positive factors in the number of strong applications received in the future. He also noted that the success of the basketball team in recent years has contributed beneficially to exposure for Davidson.

Birth Pains (Continued From Page 1)

actually consists of all the students whereas the Senate is its voice. Realistically, students still don't give a damn about student government although the Senate is actually an effective voice of student opinion. The trustees, administration and faculty seem to have gained a new respect for student power, but this seems to have originated from the power and perseverance of Murphy. Student government to most students is still a staid concept implying the election of good guys to an office. This seems to be the problem of student government: to convince students they have an effective voice and to harness student opinion so they can be more effective in bargaining with the college authorities. To summarize, the Senate has changed in concept and structure since the old days of the Student Council but it has failed to reach the statically apathetic student body. Still, the SGA has managed to involve itself in almost all college affairs and it is now bucking for changes in such matters as ROTC, campus-ing, cars and scholarships, athletics and student recruiting. The new senators, reinforced by their newfound sense of power, are beginning to work hard for their own ideas and what they think are the opinions of the students. They may succeed. But still the problem remains of changing student concepts of the actual power of the SGA. The process was begun by Murphy but last year's changes are attributed to Murphy alone by students. The Hobbie administration must continue the process or student government will lapse into the doldrums of good-guyishness as the old student councils did.

HUNTERSVILLE-FORD SALES AND SERVICE 875-6547

(Staff Photo by Weems) MRS. LEWIS INSTRUCTS TUTORS Charlotte leader stresses personal relationship.

Communication Said STEP Key
By RICHARD HINSON
Staff Writer

Mrs. Bertha Lewis, a member of Charlotte's Model Cities program, spoke on effective communication with disadvantaged people Wednesday night at a meeting of students in the STEP tutorial program. Mrs. Lewis told each person in the group to “search your soul to decide if you are cut out to be a tutor: you've got to find yourself first.” She stressed that tutors should enter enthusiastically into the relationship with the tutee without acting superior. “Those children can sense it if you think you are better than them.” She suggested that each tutor get involved with his tutee by “speaking in the tutee’s language” and by finding out what the tutee likes to do. Many of a tutee’s difficulties, Mrs. Lewis maintained, stem from a possible physical affliction which has not been noticed or from the fact that he comes from a poor home environment. The tutor should try to find out what the causes of the tutee's problems are, she added.

Student Arrested, Booked On Drug, Weapon Charge
By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

A Davidson junior is in court this morning on charges of four misdemeanors, two charges of carrying a concealed weapon, a charge of crossing the middle line of a highway, and a charge of possession of narcotics, marijuana. The Rowan County Court in Salisbury will try the student on the first three charges and hold a preliminary hearing on the marijuana charge at 9 a.m. this morning. The student was picked up on the traffic charge while en route to Salem College last Friday. Records personnel in Rowan County said the student was released on $1,000 bond. The story of the arrest was broadcast Saturday morning by Charlotte radio station WAYS and also carried by the CHARLOTTE OBSERVER in its second edition Sunday. A WAYS newsman said the station learned of the case from an Associated Press release. The jurisdiction committee of the Davidson Regulations Court will consider the case on Tuesday.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE
OL KINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Wildcat Den Seeks ABC Approval Of Beer Sales

Less than a month after the first alcoholic beverages were sold legally in the town of Davidson, the Wildcat Den is applying for a permit to sell beer and wine for consumption on premises. Mrs. Emma Payne, who leases the restaurant on Main Street from basketball coach Lefty Driesell, posted notice of her intention to make application to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Unlike the Davidson Grocery, whose beer and wine permit was approved earlier this month, the restaurant specializing in pizza would allow drinking in the establishment with meals. Mrs. Colleen Norket, owner of the Davidson Grocery, went through three months of administrative red tape to obtain her license. She finally had to go before the State ABC Board in Raleigh with her lawyer to appeal her case. With Mrs. Norket’s case as a precedent, though, Mrs. Payne's petition should receive more rapid consideration. The Davidson Town Council, when asked by an ABC official to express an opinion on the grocery’s application, passed a resolution opposing the sale of alcoholic beverages in Davidson. However, Mayor F. L. Jackson said the Council does not plan to oppose the Wildcat Den's application. “We have no further objection,” Jackson said. “It's a matter of state law. There's nothing we can do.”

CONGRATULATIONS WILDCATS on fine season
Gurley’s ESSO
MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS
PHONE 892-9304