POLITICS OF ILLUSION (See Page Two) HOMECOMING AT SOUTH HILL? (See Page Four)

The Newspaper Of Davidson College Students - DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969

Admissions Panel

Pikas, Sigs Vote To Stay National

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

IFC Resolution

The IFC urgently recommends to all fraternities and their members: that they continue to approach all members, whether brothers or
pledges, with the assumption that they are mature, responsible, and self-governing individuals and that they alone can take the steps
necessary to eradicate hazing in all its varied forms; that Davidson chapter of Kappa Sigma and Kappa Alpha voted to
retain their national affiliation. According to Kappa Sig social chairman Gary Hemric, finances and rush power were the issues involved
in their 22-5 vote. Stagg Newman, who headed the Pika committee studying national affiliation, said that the report of his
committee was passed by the fraternity with only one dissenting vote. The committee was in favor of going local until
the study was made. Newman said, "We felt that it was financially advantageous to the fraternity as a whole to
remain national." he said.

ROTC Details Stalled

According to Dean of the Faculty W. Frontis Johnston, the nature of the ROTC program for next year cannot be
outlined with any degree of certainty at present, but will be decided upon in the near future. The reason for
the uncertainty about the program stems from the nature of the college’s contract with the Army. The contract stipulates that
a year's notice be given before any change in the program can be instituted. Johnston pointed out that the extent
of change in the program for next year would be determined by negotiations which will take place with the Army
in the near future. The Dean noted that a more definite picture of the Davidson program would be available after
he had consulted with the head of the ROTC Department, Col. Frederick Outlaw. He said that this consultation would take
place in the next two weeks.

Newman said that the national charter provided all the autonomy desired by the chapter. The chapter has control over selection
procedures. “Many of us felt that the national fraternity was playing a smaller role here as time goes on and
that the money could be better spent here.” Hemric said. “It seems to us that the guys here at Davidson
are beginning to see that they have friendships and associations which are outside the fraternity and which are equally important,”
Hemric said. “Because of our bylaws, our pledges were not allowed to vote.” Hemric said, “But a straw vote was
taken in the pledge class before the issue was brought to the brotherhood. The result of the straw vote was
overwhelmingly in favor of remaining part of the national.” According to Hemric, the principal reason for the defeat of the
proposed localization was that it was feared that such a move would damage the fraternity’s rush program. “We also thought,
however, that to go into rush as the only local fraternity on campus would put us at a definite disadvantage.”
Hemric said. “This is especially true with regard to the development of the fraternity over the next two or three
years and carried more weight than the financial issue,” he said. “Now that the vote has been taken, the local
autonomy issue is dead for the time being, at our house,” Hemric said. “We are certainly not poised, waiting for
someone else to make the first move.” “Our national organization gives us a great deal of freedom in running our
own affairs, so we are content with the present situation.” he said.

they appeal individually and collectively to each other to bury and forget injurious hazing traditions; that they coordinate with campus
administrators to rid Davidson College of any lingering evidences of hazing; and above all that they endeavor to broaden and
strengthen pre-initiation activities in order to make them constructive, useful programs consistent with their own ideals and teachings.

POLICY STATEMENT

Hazing shall be defined as any action taken or situation intentionally created which might be physically or mentally harmful and/or
involving an outside individual or group of individuals which reflects poorly on the fraternity system and Davidson College. In the
area of physical hazing, no paddling in any form will be tolerated. Road trips and forced consumption of food will
also be considered hazing. Mutual consent does not determine the validity of a pre-initiation activity. Where unequals (pledge-brother) are involved,
mutual consent is felt to be a contradiction in terms. Although the concept of scavenger hunts is not inherently wrong,
often outside individuals are involved in a degrading manner in this activity. Any fraternity planning to use this activity in
their pledge program must submit a list of items for inspection prior to the activity. The IFC also would like
to take this opportunity to notify the College of a policy change concerning the release of information concerning trial convictions.
In the future, the name of the fraternity involved (no individual's name will be used), the general reason for the
penalty and the nature of the penalty will be publicized. This policy is not retroactive to any previous convictions. Each
individual fraternity must accept the responsibility to adhere to our own set of regulations which are written in light of
the Code of Responsibility. The IFC Judicial Board must find its proper perspective in relation to other judicial bodies and
will continue its attempt to coordinate with these bodies and to formalize relationships.

IFC Defines Alters Car Policy

A new resolution that students receiving financial aid may have cars has been recommended to President Samuel R. Spencer by
a faculty committee. “This recommendation was accepted unanimously by the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid.” said Dr. William B.
Hight Jr. Hight is chairman of the committee, Professor of Education, and Director of Student Counseling at Davidson. The Committee
on Cars and Scholarships representing the Student Senate also approved the recommendation unanimously. This committee was composed of Robert Ambrose,
Somers Price, and Chairman David Sweatt. The recommendation will allow scholarship students to have cars on campus for the remainder
of this year and for 1969-70. The policy will be re-evaluated in the spring of 1970. The plan specifies certain
conditions to protect the college from financing cars. The car should be purchased only with excess earnings. Its expenses will
be added to the scholarship student's report of personal expenditures. The value of the car will be added to the
student's assets as figured by the College Scholarship Service. Cars for financial aid students are to be registered in the
Financial Aid Office when they are brought on campus. The recommendation needs only the approval of President Spencer.

Trustees Approve Next Year’s Faculty Changes

Herb Jackson, a 1957 Davidson graduate called “probably the most creative student ever to enroll in studio courses at Davidson”
by art professor D. C. Houchens, two non-Western studies professors, and a new college physician were approved by the Board
of Trustees last week, in addition to three promotions. Jackson, who painted the murals in the Union Cafeteria and the
Alpha Tau Omega house when he was a student, is completing his master’s degree at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill. He received a two-year appointment as instructor of fine arts and replaces art instructor Robert H. Will.

Hazing In Policy Statement

The Davidson College Interfraternity Council made its first formalized definition of hazing in a policy statement released last Wednesday. The
IFC policy defined hazing.

LAMMERS SPEAKS TO SYMPOSIUM

Biology professor joins others in describing man’s devastation of nature.

Symposium Seeks Cure Of Civilized Suffocation

Co-curricular education at Davidson assumed a new form in the Symposium on Environmental Problems this week when professors, not outsiders,
took the podium for the whole course of the program. Taking advantage of the interest and study of Davidson professors,
the three-night symposium included presentations by members of six different departments. Sponsored by the Philanthropic Literary Society, expenses for the
program were borne by a twenty-dollar grant from the Activities Grant Foundation. “The earth did without man for millions of
years.” concluded Dr. Hallam Walker, associate professor of French, in the final presentation of the symposium. “and it can do
without man again.” Walker's concluding remarks mirrored the concern of all the speakers that the problems of the environment have
assumed crisis proportions at a time when the biosphere is already threatened by a human population explosion. Only when decision-makers
in all areas become aware of the seriousness of the problems will"We begin to protect ourselves from our own shortsightedness,"
said junior David Sweatt, moderator of the program. The Monday night program was entitled "Man in the Biosphere" and included
presentations by Dr. W. T. Lammers, associate professor of biology, and Dr. David G. Grant, assistant professor of biology. "Economics
and Politics of Environmental Change" was the topic Tuesday night. That program included presentations by Dr. Louise Nelson, associate professor
of economics; Dr. James G. Martin, associate professor of chemistry; and Professor William E. Jackson, assistant professor of political science.
Wednesday night's conclusion to the symposium was entitled "Human Culture, Ethics and the Environment" and featured presentations by Dr. Samuel
D. Maloney, professor of religion, and by Walker.

The policy statement defined hazing as: "any action or situation intentionally created which might be physically or mentally harmful and/or
involving an outside individual or group of individuals which reflects poorly on the fraternity system at Davidson College." The statement
specified "road trips, forced consumption of food, and paddling in any form" as types of hazing. Scavenger hunts will be
allowed to continue if the fraternity planning such an activity submits a list of items to the IFC for inspection.

Campus Leaders

Student unrest on campus and national response to it were the topics for a conference of student government presidents and
campus editors which DAVIDSONIAN co-editor Franklin Anderson attended in Washington last weekend. The group of about 20 was drawn at
random from among those who signed a statement announcing their refusal to accept induction for the duration of the Vietnam
War. According to Anderson, the basic topic of discussion centered around recent student disorders. "The consensus seemed to be that
we could neither condemn nor condone disorders," Anderson said. "Most of us felt that reforms are needed. Yet, we can't
really agree with the means they're using." Anderson noted that the conference decided not to discuss particular situations such as
those at San Francisco State or Cornell. "We did not agree on this point, however, that the student movement isn’t
totally caused by small groups." Anderson said. "Violence is the result of a minority, but dissatisfaction with the rigidity of
many American universities is widespread." Anderson noted that many felt the colleges and universities are being used by the establishment.
"In a number of cases, the independence of the university has been violated by the encroachment of the Pentagon. On
many campuses today, there are substantial amounts of military research being done," he said. Anderson disagreed with those who saw
voluntary ROTC as an encroachment by the military serious enough to warrant protest. "But what we're saying is that the
university can't speak out as a whole against the war, nor can it be honest and fair, if it allows
the military to use its professors and its facilities," he said.

Frederick H. Gaige, who is now completing PhD requirements at the University of Pennsylvania, has been appointed to establish a
South Asian Studies Program. Gaige received his B.A. degree in history from Oberlin and his M.A.T. from Brown University in
1963. In addition, he has studied at the London School of Economics. He will be aided during the winter and
spring of 1970 by Mrs. Zubaida Yaseen Ali Khan, who will be a visiting lecturer in history. She is now
head of the history department of the College for Women of Osmania University in Hyderabad, India. Mrs. Khan holds B.A.
and D.Litt. degrees from Oxford University in England. She has taught European and Indian History at Osmania and elsewhere for
26 years.

Dr. William A. Davis Jr., a 1950 graduate of Davidson and now a general practitioner in Cornelius and Davidson, has
been named to succeed Dr. James B. Woods Jr. as college physician. Davis attended the Duke University School of Medicine
and interned at Memorial Hospital in Charlotte. Promotions were made in three departments. Dr. Jerry A. Roberts of the Mathematics
Department, Dr. A. Allen Wolf of the Physics Department, and Erich O. Wruck of the German Department have been promoted
to the rank of associate professor. Wruck expects to complete work on his doctorate at Rutgers University this June. Leaving
next year will be Classics Instructor John Callender, who will be replaced by Dr. George Labban, who is returning from
Junior Year Abroad in France; Dr. Raymond Martin, whose two-year appointment ends this year as philosophy professor when Earl R.
MacCormac returns from a year’s leave of absence, and Ray McMillan, assistant professor of speech, whose position is left vacant.
Dr. Hallam Walker, associate professor of French, and Dr. Julius E. Winkler, associate professor of German, will be on the
Junior Year Abroad program. Also absent for next year on leave are Dr. Alexander J. McKelway, associate professor of religion,
and Dr. Charles E. Ratliff Jr., professor of economics. Dr. Samuel D. Maloney, professor of religion, and Rupert T. Barber,
assistant professor of speech and drama, will be on leave for the spring term. Returning will be Dr. John D.
Kelton, professor of psychology; Dr. R. W. Gable, associate professor of chemistry; and Paul Fisher, assistant professor of German.

Joseph G. McClain, Davidson's first black town councilman, stepped into a position of great potential when he took office last
week. McClain is the only new member of the town government, the four other board members and the new mayor,
Thomas S. Sadler, having been last year's incumbent councilmen. Of the returning incumbents, H. B. Naramore topped the list with
299 votes. Grover C. Meetze, Jr. had 254, while E. T. McEver and James W. Reid, Jr. each drew 212.
The unsuccessful candidates were mathematics professor John T. Kimbrough with 188 votes, W. T. Gurley with 180, religion professor Daniel
D. Rhodes with 166, and R. K. Gregory with 151. Thomas S. Sadler, an incumbent councilman, was unopposed for Mayor.
He drew 373 of the 426 votes cast in the election. As first chair barber in Johnson's Barber Shop on
Main Street, McClain deals with people from all over town, and should therefore be able to improve communications between the
Town Council and the townspeople. Since this is his first public office, however, he wants to get to know his
job well before committing himself to any specific programs, he said. McClain is particularly interested in working with the Mayor's
Community Relations Committee to help build a more closely integrated town. "I'm willing to work with the Mayor's Committee in
any way they want me to. I intend to work for the benefit of the whole town, though, and not
for any special private interests on either side of the tracks," McClain said firmly. The 426-vote turnout represents about 69
percent of the 625 registered voters in the Town of Davidson.
