The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter in Davidson, N.C. 28036. Subscription rates: $6 per year; $6.50 if billed.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON
Editors-in-Chief

JACK WELLMAN
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1969

About Self-Righteousness

A growing absolutism is developing in issues both nationwide and campus-wide, an absolutism which is explosive because of the polarization of sides and moralization of issues out of which it grows. Characteristic of the phenomenon is the transformation of an issue into a cause, a question into an answer. No longer are there two sides to be compromised. Instead, it is the good guys against the bad guys, and the good guys must win and win completely. Mediation becomes compromise with evil, which is an altogether different matter.

Nationally, the issue is best exemplified by the Civil Rights movement, a cause which has produced passionate beliefs on each side that the other side is either reactionary or subversive and communist-inspired. Locally, the same phenomenon surrounds the voluntary ROTC issue, and THE DAVIDSONIAN has itself proclaimed the ethical side of the ROTC issue. If one takes the moral side of things, then he will assume himself to be right: not just better informed, or expressing better judgment, but positively, absolutely right. Moral arguments by their very nature carry with them this tendency to absolutize themselves.

It would be foolish to disagree with the seriousness with which people are taking the ethics of the issues now current, for it is indeed heartening to see apathy diminish. On the other hand, it seems unwise not to understand the implications of this phenomenon and to consider possible consequences. The consequences center around the means those convinced of their moral righteousness will use to achieve fulfillment of their cause. Almost any means is justifiable as long as the end is right and moral and just and good. But what may well be overlooked is the limitedness of being human, the impossibility that any man will ever ultimately know right from wrong.

Please do not misinterpret this. We are not saying that it is the issues which we doubt, for with all the reason and rationalization we can summon, we can’t see how the Civil Rights movement is wrong or mandatory ROTC is right. What we do doubt is ourselves, and for that matter, everyone else. It is our own self-righteousness and that of our fellow students that we fear and wish to warn against.

Letter From The Editors

Judging from the barrage of comments which have buried the offices of THE DAVIDSONIAN with scorn, we need to make a policy statement regarding our acceptance of letters to the editor. A particular letter in last week’s issue invoked the ire of a large part of the college community. Adverse comments have been directed at the paper for printing the letter, and we would like to clarify our stand.

The letter in question misinterpreted a statement by a member of the administration and ventured into a personal attack on that person. We must defend the letter writer's freedom to make the interpretation he made, and although we did not agree with the letter’s content or implications, we printed it because it did not violate our policy regarding letters. Now, however, we have decided to restate that policy.

We will still accept letters regardless of content, provided they don't step beyond the lines of good taste. It is this “good taste” which merits definition. We still reserve the right to refuse to print letters of an obscene or libelous nature, just as we have in the past. However, we feel that we also should not print letters which constitute personal attacks. Such attacks are in most cases both unjustified and in bad taste, and we reserve the right to request revision of such letters.

This is not to say that the editors are initiating a censorship campaign on letters to the editor. We value the column because it remains the one place on campus where there is free expression in public. We still maintain our Voltarian defense of the reader's right to express his opinions, and we will bend over backwards to print every letter we can. What the policy does say, however, is that the editors consider personal attacks both unwise and unnecessary and will not accept such attacks in the future.

AWOL In Nixon Country
By College Press Service

Around the country, the California town of Whittier is best known for its “favorite son,” Richard Nixon. But in Army and Marine bases on the West Coast, its most redeeming feature is the local Unitarian Church. In the past three weeks alone, no fewer than four AWOL servicemen have sought and gained sanctuary there.

In mid-March, a young Marine, Craig Murphy of Miami, Fla., who was stationed at nearby Camp Pendleton, applied at the church for sanctuary from the military. He said he would subject himself to arrest, offer no physical resistance, but he wanted to make known his views on the war and the military in general—views he could not make public from his base. The board of trustees of the church granted sanctuary, citing their respect for “freedom of conscience and the right to dissent.” For 10 days Murphy lived in the church, while townspeople and local college students kept him company. As agreed, the Shore Patrol in the area was notified that he was there and that he would not resist arrest.

At 2 a.m. on March 20 (the 10th day), two Marines from Murphy's base, wearing civilian clothes, broke into the church and asked to see the AWOL Marine alone. While one of them kept the crowd occupied in one room, the other beat Murphy and dragged him outside and into the back seat of their waiting car. The car got away, but was stopped almost immediately by police for a traffic violation. Police freed the two Marines—one a sergeant—and turned Murphy over to authorities, who promptly put him in the brig.

But the saga didn't end there. A Marine medic named Robert Hamburger, who examined the bruises Murphy got in his beating, was so shocked he went AWOL, too, saying he must take a stand against the Marines’ stifling of dissent. The Unitarian church gave Hamburger sanctuary. Word spreads fast on the AWOL underground and through the press; and Jack Lunford, a Marine who had been AWOL in Seattle for seven months, flew to Whittier to take Murphy’s place in the sanctuary when he heard about the beating.

Whittier is beginning to look pretty good to AWOL servicemen: another is David Jones of McCulloch, Ark., who had been AWOL once before, court-martialed and thrown in the brig. But Whittier is nicer than the brig, so Jones, along with two of his guards, escaped from his base and gained sanctuary there. The “Whittier three” remain in the church, visited by a constant flow of people 24 hours a day. The church has not set a quota on AWOL servicemen, although it is obvious that the church's activities have been altered a great deal by their presence. Religious services are held daily, featuring different religions each day. A seder was celebrated at Passover, and the following weekend Bishop James Pike held a service. The church’s policy is to inform the Shore Patrol about the servicemen in sanctuary, and invite them to come if they wish. So far they have refused the invitation.

Pastor Richard Weston is surprised by the lack of adverse reaction to the sanctuary in this southern California town. Press coverage has been fair, and in general, he says, there is support among townspeople. “They haven’t bombed us yet,” he adds. Weston goes to the brig at Camp Pendleton to visit Murphy regularly. On the way out, he flashes the peace sign to passing Marines. “Fully half the soldiers I pass flash it back—and it’s quite obvious from their expressions what they mean. I’m surprised at how large the underground in the Marines is,” he adds.

The town’s most notable product—now in Washington—is supposedly informed of what goes on in Whittier. Two Congressmen from the area have asked the Pentagon for an investigation of the original Murphy beating. It seems going AWOL in Nixon country is the next best thing to having Nixon go AWOL himself.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Withrow, Sims Raise Questions Of Morality, Compulsory ROTC

To The Editor:

I am a former participant in the ROTC Program, and a returned Peace Corps volunteer, having worked two years in Peru. I am writing this letter to express my total opposition to a compulsory military training program at Davidson College. It seems to be a sickness of our society to consider our customs, values, and attitudes to be not only the “best” for ourselves, but for the rest of the world. In Peru I became extremely aware of a “cultural imperialism” as I observed missionaries, U.S. businessmen, embassy representatives, and Peace Corps volunteers attempting to “teach” (force) their Americanmia: dieclass values on Peruvian nationals who were considered to be “ignorant”, “socially immature” natives. Upon returning to the United States several months ago, I became more deeply aware of a similar condescending attitude which several college administrators and faculty members held toward students. From my point of view, Davidson is unforgivably oppressive to student freedom and responsibility by making ROTC a compulsory program. It is compulsory, according to one paternalistic administrator, because “freshmen are not mature enough to make their own decision about ROTC.” Does this administrator think freshmen are “mature enough” to pull a trigger and kill? Not only do I abhor the condescending words “not mature enough,” but I detest the presumptuous attitude that a college administration has the right to force its militaristic values on those sensitive and intelligent students whose personal value systems do not include training in the science of war. Davidson College tacitly supports the immoral war in Vietnam and other imperialistic maneuvers throughout the world by supplying the U.S. Army yearly with a supply of officers. It is no secret that approximately 40 percent of this year’s advanced ROTC class has been assigned to the infantry branch of the Army, nor is it a secret that these “sons of Davidson” will probably be killing Vietnamese, or will be killed, within six months. It seems a diabolical paradox that a “Christian” institution like Davidson College forcefully trains her young men in the Science of Human Destruction, and offers not even an alternative training program in the Science of Human Development. It is disillusioning to me that our commitment at Davidson College is to the Murders of War, not to the Peacemakers.

Glenn A. Withrow ‘70
Davidson College

Dean’s Wife Criticizes Discourtesy In Columns

To The Editor:

I am sure what an old lady is the last person in the world you want to hear from. However, I claim the right to write you because I have been a faithful reader of THE DAVIDSONIAN since long before the Lord ever began to think you boys up. I used to enjoy reading THE DAVIDSONIAN—it was a fun thing; it brightened my day. Now, however, after a session with one of your issues, I feel as cheery as a damp floor mop. Does a college newspaper now have to be almost entirely a gripe sheet? Is nothing right about the college anymore? Is there no happiness left on the face of the campus?

Yes, You're In The Army Now

And has common courtesy and politeness gone completely down the drain? (And here I refer to three articles in the last issue about the finest of gentlemen whose contributions to the college and state have gone far beyond the call of duty). I briefly comment that I have never before read columns of such incredible rudeness. And now let me say that I fully realize the hard job you have to do. In the olden days, I too worked on a college paper and I vividly remember the traumas of unmet deadlines, unfilled columns, and student indifference. I congratulate you on the efficient production of your six-page edition. (You see, I am still a faithful reader.) But I do wonder if you realize that for many THE DAVIDSONIAN is their only link with the college they love? Forgive me if I seem to have done a good bit of griping myself. But please, please brighten once again my DAVIDSONIAN day.

Mrs. Frontis Johnston
Davidson, N.C.

CORRECTION

In last week’s issue, a typographical error appeared in Associate Editor Robert Rycall’s column. The paragraph beginning “Our pledge trainer” should have read “One pledge trainer.” THE DAVIDSONIAN regrets this oversight.

To The Editor:

In the midst of the fortnight which the International Communist Conspiracy has obviously set aside for local attacks on ROTC programs in America’s colleges and universities, the faculty has again reached a crucial stage in its consideration of our own direct involvement with the military. Different viewpoints must be given to the faculty in order that they can best make our own decision for us. The following may be considered as the opinion of one bloodthirsty, active-duty veteran in the Senior Class.

ROTC at Davidson is valuable to students who should be in graduate school rather than in the Mekong Delta. These students know this: they will make the best of the program offered. They will do this voluntarily because participation serves their own interests. They will in fact persuade enough of their sleepy brethren to wake up to the value of the program: that it will function as long as there is need.

Compulsory ROTC, on the other hand, is not only not essential, but also indefensible at Davidson. A community with a Christian orientation cannot declare the need for freedom of choice to worship by removing vespers requirements and still retain as one of its few regulations compulsory attendance at military drills and classes. Little further damage to the Christian concept of love for neighbor can be done after Davidson College tacitly defends the same military establishment that actually defends our immoral involvement in the Vietnam war. Volunteer ROTC is needed at Davidson as long as politicians need this war. Are Davidson’s values based on the military or on education?

J. B. Sims, USMCR, ‘69
Davidson College

Uncle Percival’s Wart Remover
By David Sweatt

The ‘Action Gap’

There are times when we need to reexamine our perspectives. We may tell ourselves that we have done so or that we continue to do so. But then someone comes along to challenge that self-satisfaction. The present college generation, like others before it, has taken the greatest delight in chiding the powers that be—spotting inconsistencies and failures with relish. In fact, this generation has probably had a greater effect on domestic and world affairs than any before it. That’s a source of pride. What isn’t praiseworthy is what an older person pointed out to a luncheon audience of college students recently: that while students have become more and more critical of institutions and of those people in the society who wield power, those same students have of late talked themselves into a sort of societal voyeurism, a rationalized opting out. There is an unspoken attitude which seems to say that it is enough to know about the problems and to suffer under the thought of their painfulness. And here the process stops. Acceptance of insolubility. Acceptance of unacceptables. For some, this practiced disillusionment becomes alienation; others move toward narcissism. Still others move toward what author Paul Zweig has called a new narcissism in which the individual struggles bitterly against authority—the bitterness of the agitation resulting in more self-loathing than self-love. Some of the more violent protests the nation has seen over the past two years include what appears to be a strong masochistic impulse operating behind other announced motivations. The question has been raised whether for some young radicals the violence itself was a source of satisfaction to them, regardless of achievement of certain stated objectives. All this conjecture may be completely off base. But what stands out is that regardless of reasons, regardless of armchair psychoanalysis, the present student generation is becoming the functional equivalent of the older generation it has so thoroughly damned.

Our generation has long condemned the generations preceding us as apathetic, unconcerned, insensitive to human problems. But now we show signs of the same inactivity, the same functional failures, excusing ourselves on grounds of disillusionment and acceptance of the inevitability of all those things we say we dislike most in our society. Without going through a litany of current problems, the obvious fact of the present situation is that unless man curbs his excesses he may lose the whole operation. Not to recognize this is folly. To recognize it and remain inactive is failure. To explain the failure is not to remove it. Even more valueless than this defeatist withdrawal is the capacity for complete forgetfulness some members of the present student generation have cultivated. Incredible as it may seem to men of this institution, some of their contemporaries have yet to even be personally touched by the problems. They recognize no obligation of intelligence and education. They feel no responsibility. For some, it can be said with fairness, self-indulgence is a way of life. “Big party weekends can be fun,” the luncheon speaker concluded, “Though after a while they may become quite vapid. I wonder how many of your fraternity friends know just how fragile the fabric that supports such things is. I wonder if they know how precariously this whole nation is perched.” Maybe the generation gap is not the major division. Maybe the gap between those who act and those who don’t act is the major dividing line: an inactive, disillusioned 21-year-old is no more effective than an inactive, apathetic 50-year-old.