Page Four November 21, 1969. The Davidsonian

One Act ‘Direct; Forceful’ In Production By Gourdin

A REVIEW By DAN GRAHAM

While the limits inherent in a one-act play may seem excessively restrictive, a powerful performance such as that staged by
the Drama Workshop shows how direct and forceful the one-acter can be. Terry Hirst was almost flawless in his portrayal
of Jess, the prisoner condemned to die at the end of the day. Jess's aloneness is merely palliated by the
sympathy of the gentle Luke (Jeff Loughridge), while aggravated by the sardonic wit of the homosexual Archie (Tim Timmons). Jess's
dim hopes of comfort from his tardy father (Bob Wood) are shattered when he sees him—broken by age and poverty.
In addition, the visit of Luke’s wife Mona (Ellen Spencer), although overwritten and played heavy-handedly, confirms one’s feeling that an
awful gulf exists between the three inmates and the outside world.

Within the simple plot constructed around these few events is displayed an impressive range of emotions as the prisoners bare
their sufferings and personal conflicts. The only serious incongruity in the play was the Chaplain (Bruce Schoonmaker), whose rather thinly
disguised status of commentator became blatant due to Schoonmaker's failure to effect dramatic interaction with the prisoners. Although stiff, he
was more at home in the somewhat moralistic prologue and epilogue which question capital punishment. Inge’s use of the prologue
and epilogue can be defended as an acceptable device for conveying a meaning since the appropriate themes are developed in
the play. Nevertheless, it is wise to be wary of the simplifications made in moralizing: for while something significant has
been captured, something vital has also escaped. And so with ‘Do Not Go Gentle’, there is something vital which goes
beyond Inge’s moral.

Blood Intake Declines

Davidson College's semi-annual blood drive for the Red Cross on November 10 and 11 yielded disappointing results. Only 230 pints
of blood were collected, as opposed to about 300 pints last year at this time. However, Major Robert W. Garner
of the ROTC Department protested, "The blood drive did not flop; we simply did not get as much as we
did last year. That is certainly not enough to call the drive a failure."

Upon investigation of the reasons behind this drop, Captain Harry H. Blalock, also of the ROTC Department, remarked, "Certainly, one
of the main reasons for the drop would be the drop in ROTC freshmen and sophomores.” According to Blalock, more
than 80% of all students who gave blood last week are taking ROTC.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, Nov. 21
10 a.m. Speaker Dr. Margaret Elizabeth Sewell, poet and author
3 p.m. Freshman football vs. Murfreesboro, Tenn.
8:03 p.m. Movie - “Hombre”

Saturday, November 22
2 p.m. Football vs. Murfreesboro, Tenn.
8:03 p.m. Movie - “Hombre”

Sunday, November 23
4 p.m. Wind Ensemble, Morrison Room

Monday, November 24
8 p.m. Fine film - “Rebecca”, Morrison Room

Tuesday, November 25
Davidson vs. Vanderbilt, Nashville, Tenn.

Room Phones, Open Dorms Have Highest RHC Priority

The installation of telephone conduits in all dormitories this summer and approval of daily open dorms were designated as high
priority by the RHC dorm improvement committee Tuesday night. RHC president Tom Opie said that RHC gave some trustees a
tour of Watts, during which students extolled the merits of the new phones. "We pressed it very hard with the
trustees," Opie said. The RHC estimates that conduit installation campus-wide would entail an expenditure of $9,000 to $15,000. A decision
on whether to go ahead with the installation next summer is expected before Christmas.

The RHC approved the request of East dormitory for daily open dorms Monday, but denied the requests of Cannon and
Watts because of improper voting procedures. "No figures were given to us in the council," said RHC president Tom Opie.
"We have a requirement that there be a two-thirds majority vote." Watts representative Ronnie Conoley said that there had been
no dissenting votes among those polled in Watts. "I knew that there was a two-thirds vote required but I didn't
see any need for a count when three halls had voted unanimously," he said.

Duke, Richardson, Belk, and Little had adopted daily open dorms the previous week.

Trustees Await AED Appraisal

The meeting of the Board of Trustees which was scheduled for January 9 has been postponed until February 6, according
to Frontis W. Johnston, Dean of the Faculty. The cause of the postponement stems from the delay in evaluation of
the Commission reports by the Academy for Educational Development, an outside consulting group commissioned to study the future development of
Davidson. Among the areas to be examined in the study are the overall aims and goals of the college, organization
and administration of the college, faculty resources, business and financial management, development and public relations, the student situation, educational opportunities,
facilities and resource utilization, and new planning.

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will consider both the report of the AED and those of the Commissions in making
recommendations to the trustees at the February meeting, Assistant Business Manager Robert J. Stephenson said.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
Across from the Morrison Room

The student legislature of the University of North Carolina voted unanimously to dismiss impeachment charges against former Davidson student Joe
Beard, a law student at Chapel Hill and chairman of the Legislature's Rules Committee. Beard had been impeached on three
charges stemming from his actions in calling three meetings of his committee on the day of the October 15 Moratorium.
Three consecutive absences from committee meetings are sufficient cause for removal from the legislature. Article One charged Beard with misfeasance
and malfeasance in calling three meetings when there was no significant business to discuss. "The sole purpose for recalling the
two extra meetings, if not all three, was to intimidate the other members of the legislature," Beard said.

BEARD charges droppedHospital Mooresville, N. C. Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti: BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti —
Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C.

THE VILLAGE STORE See Our Gift Ideas Davidson, N. C.

bers of the committee,” the article charged. The second article said that “Beard used his position for personal reasons... and
is therefore guilty of vast misuse of the powers of his office.” A third article, charging Beard with violation of
a legislature bill protecting freedom of choice in regard to observance of the “Moratorium,” was dropped earlier by a 22-18
vote. The motion to dismiss the remaining two charges was made by Louis Black, who brought the first charges against
Beard. “I don't feel that I made a mistake when I filed charges of impeachment two weeks ago and I
felt then that the charges were based on legal grounds,” Black said. “I now feel the charges have legal grounds,
but that the grounds are questionable.”

Earlier in the week, the executive board of the University Party voted to censure Beard for abusing his power as
a committee chairman, but they asserted that the charges should be dropped because Beard was not guilty of any legal
violations. Davidson senior Robert Bryan, who worked closely with Beard in conservative politics while Beard was here, claimed that the
charges constituted a personal attack on Beard and had no constitutional grounds. “The attack was on Beard personally, probably as
a result of his efforts to end subsidization of the ‘Daily Tar Heel’,” he said. Beard is spearheading a campaign
to end subsidization of the newspaper on the grounds that university support gives the state control of the paper.

By JEFF ALLENDER

It gets a lot colder in Germany, this time of the year than in Davidson. According to Reinhard Schaechter of
Frailgrathwell, West Germany, the average monthly temperature of Germany in November is about 45 degrees Fahrenheit. Schaechter and Gerhard Prott
of Haupstrausse presented their native country at Tuesday's installment of “Around the World in 80 Cups of Coffee” in the
Morrison room.

According to Schaechter and Prott, their native land has an average of 600 persons per square mile, making it twelve
times as densely populated as the United States. One third of all the land space in Germany is in urban
areas. On the other hand, Schaechter said, careful planning after World War Two has left much of the country's woodlands
and rural areas well-preserved. The audience was led on a color-slide tour of Schaechter’s hometown, and then of the rest
of Germany. According to the slides, many historical monuments dot the German countryside and adorn its cities, and many of
the buildings have survived from medieval times. Nonetheless, many of the river valley ports in the country are highly industrialized.
The beerhalls, ancient buildings, and University of Marburg were pictured in the slides. Commenting on that ancient city, where several
Davidson students spent their Junior Year Abroad, Schaechter said, “There are too many rats there.”

Schaechter and Prott also showed slides of the Alpine valley region in the extreme southern part of the country. When
the glaciers receded, numerous lakes were formed, and many of the mountain peaks were untouched by the erosive force of
the ice. Cities and villages sit at the feet of these imposing mountains. Swimming and boating on the lakes are
two of the major sports there, according to Schaechter and Prott. Skiing, mountain climbing, and sightseeing are also common recreational
activities in the mountainous south of Germany.

Hoyt Pushes Open House

The Open House program, operated under the auspices of the YMCA, offers students the opportunity to meet and come to
know members of the faculty and administration on a personal basis, said senior Won Hoyt, this year’s Open House coordinator.
“Chief among the advantages that the program gives students is a knowledge of their professors as men, rather than mere
fact dispensers,” claims Hoyt. He believes that by understanding that the faculty and administration is composed of individuals, each with
a set of personal convictions, students will enrich their years at Davidson.

So far this year there have been twenty-six Open Houses, with attendance varying from none to a dozen. This element
of uncertainty is generally conceded to be the most unsatisfactory part of the program, for it is disconcerting to both
professor and student if there are either too many or too few students to carry on an interesting conversation. Nevertheless,
there are advantages to Open House not found in other programs. “It enables students not taking any courses from a
particular professor to meet him and develop their common interests,” said Hoyt.

STEAKS & SEAFOOD West Wilson at 21 By-Pass TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT (Formerly Elk’s Restaurant) Mooresville, N. C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI Depot St.

HOLIDAYS AHEAD

For the BEST & QUICKEST drycleaning and shirt laundry service in town, come to Jackson Cleaners Just beyond Coffee Cup

FLY to the Tangerine Bowl DAVIDSON vs. TOLEDO Dec. 26, 1969 — 8 P.M.

Fly with us to Orlando for the Wildcat’s first bowl victory! We’ve arranged for a special flight via Piedmont Airlines.
You will depart from your choice of either Greensboro or Charlotte on the afternoon of December 26th, fly to Orlando,
board buses for the game (with a stopover en route for dinner), relish a Davidson victory, and then reboard buses
for the airport and your return flight. You should reach home at approximately 12 midnight.

Price per person from CHARLOTTE $75 Price per person from GREENSBORO $85 (Prices include all transportation but do not include
game tickets or dinner in Orlando).

Place your reservation today with: RETT SASLOW — Room 311, Cannon Dorm or TED RAVENEL — Room 204, Watts Dorm

Wouldn't it be nice

Jeans and Casuals by LEVI and FARAH from 5.98

Campus Clothes for the Pace Setting Traditionalist John Mack & Son Mooresville

Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
