Page Four October 17, 1969 (Staff Photos by Lyle)

THE GIANT-KILLER
Gordon Slade rolls out against Richmond.

Fogleman Promises Drastic Action As Soccer Team Chokes To Apps
By A. W. TURNER JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

“There are going to be some changes made. We just can't keep playing like this.”

So spoke soccer coach Harry Fogleman after Wednesday's 6-3 loss to Appalachian State University. The game Wednesday was an unusual one.

By MARSHALL FEASTER

As an athletic photographer, I feel that I occupy a somewhat unique position with regards to Davidson football; I am neither a real outsider nor a real part of the team. This neither-nor situation has, however, provided me with some observations which are quite often unnoticed by the team and unknown by students. In order to substantiate this point, I will cite a few examples.

It has been said God knows how many times that football is a game of inches. In some respects, at least, the old cliché couldn't be more wrong. Take a guess, for instance, at how much tape is used every season to tape players' ankles. Would you believe about 200,000 yards? That's close to 138 miles.

The amount of ‘Take Five’, or green stuff as the players call it, that is drunk is just as amazing. The team manages to somehow consume 1800 gallons cooled by 9,000 pounds of ice every year. This figure is even more unbelievable if you have ever tasted the stuff.

Somewhere around forty man-hours of work are required to keep those helmets a shiny silver. (They have to be painted twice before every game). This year's model has the added attraction of the football centennial sticker. The stickers have given Hogbody Hale an opportunity to at least become an All-American at something. Ain't nobody who can stick those stickers like Hog.

Something else that may not be known by the average Davidson fan is the amount of contrast present among those associated with the team. Gary Hemric, the player turned coach, exemplifies this. When Hemric was a player, he was notorious for his lack of speed. Now, I understand, he pounds its importance into the freshmen players’ heads (as well as into their bodies) every day. It’s funny how a change in position can bring with it a change in the threshold of pain.

This contrast on the team, however, is best brought out by observation of the full-time coaching staff. Can you imagine standing at a practice session and hearing Coach Fagg speaking of the line while Coach Smith calls the same thing a point of reference?

At least in some cases, however, lack of contrast has been significant. One lack of contrast between one of the coaches and the players: Coach Jim Jordan was congratulated for playing a great game and making some tough tackles by one of the Richmond losers. The thought that Jordan was even better if he had seen him swooping down from the press box to tackle. Don't tell me you missed that.

The team is lacking in one other regard, too. And that is when the team is at Camp Carolina for pre-season practice. It's bad there all the time, and one of the worst things is the weather. (Even Coach Smith can’t seem to change it). Probably the worst single factor there is the fog. When Jimmy Poole played for the Cats, the team never practiced the long passing attack there in the morning. Jimmy's bombs were the run-under-me-catch-me type, and they tended to get lost in the early morning clouds.

The fog does have its advantages, though. Sometimes during sprints, I could see guys slip over to the side of the field and hide under the fog’s happiness blanket. Coach Todd was really pleased to see how hard the boys could run that last wind sprint till he discovered what was happening.

Aside from not knowing about all this, the fan often does not realize just how lucky he is to be able to see a football game at all. Various examples come to mind. In Coach Smith's first game as head coach here, the team traveled to Greenville to play Furman, hit the field, and then realized that the footballs were back at Lefty’s (Johnston Gym if you will). Two years ago, D.C. almost did not make it to West Virginia (maybe we shouldn't have anyway), because the pilot of the plane seemed to forget where the runway was. That same year we did have one good experience on the plane — the name of the stewardess on the flight to Charleston and The Citadel was Miss Sexton. When she introduced herself on the plane's p.a., I somehow can't remember hearing the last three letters of her name. That's the only laugh we got that weekend.

But somehow the team always seems to make it for the game, and this season we even win.

The Davidsonian

Ground-Minded William & Mary Tribe Looking Up To Stop High-Flying Slade
By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

The William and Mary Indians have had their eyes on the skies this week as they prepared to stop the passing of Gordon Slade. Slade, the engineer of the upset over the Richmond Spiders last week, was Associated Press Back of the Week for the nation as well as for the conference. It marked the second week in a row that the Southern Conference has had a national player of the week.

Slade continued his man crusade against the existing Davidson record books as he broke the single-game completion mark with a 32 of 43 passing performance. That performance propelled the Wildcat senior to fourth place among the nation's passers with a season mark of 84 of 124. These NCAA statistics are based on the number of completions. Slade’s incredible 67.7 percentage places him first among the nation’s quarterbacks. In the total offense category, Slade has moved up a notch to ninth. His 1010 yards passing are combined with only two yards rushing despite his team-leading five touchdowns.

The Indians will depend on a hard-hitting offense and a rugged defense in their bid to hand the Wildcats their first loss. The William and Mary offense has been reminiscent of the old “three yards and a cloud of dust” attack of Woody Hayes at Ohio State. The offense is directed between the tackles and the power supplied by a host of big backs. Joe Pilch, a 216-pound junior fullback, is leading the Indians with 300 yards on 73 carries. Pilch led the team in rushing his sophomore season before skipping a year for academic reasons. Dennis Cambal and John Hibbs, a pair of sophomores, fill the other two running back slots and fill them well. Cambal, a 228-pound halfback, holds the second-best mark in the nation for the high school hammer throw, but does not sacrifice speed, running a 5.5 50-yard dash. Hibbs leads the team in average yards per carry with a 6.5 average on 13 carries.Quarterback the Indians have another strong runner in Wes Meeteer. Meeteer is replacing the injured Jimmy Laycock but has not been sitting on the bench. He has started every William and Mary game in the past two seasons at quarterback, running back, or linebacker. Meeteer is primarily a runner, gaining 226 yards in the first of four games. William and Mary's new head coach, Lou Holtz, claims that Meeteer is “rapidly improving as a passer.” An improvement in the passing of Meeteer would be happy news for Jim Cavanaugh. Cavanaugh was an All-Southern Conference performer his sophomore year but dropped to 43 receptions last year as the offensive line crumbled in front of the passers. Defense has been one of the strong points of the Indians this season, but Holtz said that “against the Citadel we finally put together two good halves.” The 21-14 upset of the Citadel last week left William and Mary all alone in second place in the Southern Conference behind Davidson with a 1-0 mark in league play. The game tomorrow will pit last week's offensive player of the week, Slade, against the conference defensive player of the week, William and Mary's Jon Bilbo. In addition to Bilbo, Holtz points to linebacker Dave Holland and tackles Andy Giles and Jim Green as the key men in his pass rush. Warren Winston and Steve Howard are tabbed as “outstanding pass defenders.”

While William and Mary was dumping the Citadel from the ranks of the unbeaten, Davidson may have come of age in the stunning 37-7 victory over Richmond, the defending conference and Tangerine Bowl champions. While Slade was nailing down national recognition for his records, Mike Mikolayunas was rising from game story anonymity. Mikolayunas was moved from his slotback position to his new fullback position under coach Homer Smith's new offensive formation. Mikolayunas has been an effective blocker and the leading rusher for the ‘Cats. Against the Spiders, Mikolayunas handled the ball nearly as often as Slade as he grabbed 17 of Slade’s tosses and carried the ball 24 times. The 17 receptions were a new school record while the 24 carries were only one short of the old mark. Richmond head coach Frank Jones had nothing but words of praise for the Wildcats after the game. “We played the best Davidson team ever,” he pointed out. “We were riding on cloud nine after our victory over Virginia Tech but we're certainly back now. We were overconfident and we played poorly against a good opponent. We knew we had to stop their passing and we couldn't,” Jones added. “Slade was just too good for us to stop when we gave him time.” While Slade was riddling the pass defense of the Spiders, the lightly regarded defense of the Wildcats bottled up the potent Richmond offense. The victory for the Wildcats gave them the inside track for the conference title, but the schedule is rugged. Davidson plays the other three top contenders, East Carolina, The Citadel, and William and Mary, away from the friendly confines of Richardson Field. All three games are scheduled as homecomings for the other schools. In addition, for the first time in many a moon it will be the other teams who are taking shots at Davidson and not the ‘Cats who are sniping away at favorites. But Homer Smith isn’t complaining at all about that.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Phone 376-2576
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

ARMY & NAVY STORE
170 N. Main Street
MOORESVILLE
SPECIAL BELL BOTTOMS
Also. Jackets, Blankets & Boots For Winter
PHONE: 666-7081

The Wool SHIRT JACKET for the Cool Weather Ahead.
A fine selection, unlined, or pile lined
17.00 to Two or Four Pockets
Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist
Our 57th Year — Mooresville