REPORT EXAMINES RICHARDSON FELLOWS (See Page Three) The Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1969 HOLLAND DESCRIBES LEAVENWORTH (See Page Six) VOLUME LIX NUMBER THREE TAKE ME; NO, TAKE ME!
(Staff Photo by Ly) Sophomores volunteer to leave if exams stay. Fiery Sophomore Rally Denounces Area Exams Approximately 200 sophomores
have signed a letter of concern pertaining to area exams which was presented at a meeting of the class in
Love Auditorium Tuesday night. The letter was drafted by a committee of eight sophomores who had met with some faculty
members on the subject. Sophomore Class President Todd Hobbie termed the resolution “conservative” but said that the group did not
wish to antagonize those faculty members with demands while there was still a climate conducive to change. Howard Ramagli blasted
the statement as useless because it contained no definite course of action. He mentioned that many members of the class
were already starting transfer procedures. At the request of Jody Turner, a hand count was taken which revealed that 90
percent of the 160 attending the meeting had investigated transferring as an option to area exams. Somewhat dubious about the
usefulness of the resolution, most class members agreed to refrain from a stronger stand until the Educational Policy Committee meeting
next Monday. According to Danny Clodfelter, who has worked with the faculty on area exams, the faculty is interested in
making changes in the form of the exams. He said that there was also sentiment for reevaluation of the area
exam concept. Although meeting on Monday, Clodfelter agreed with those who said that the sophomores should attend the open EPC
meeting with a proposal to change the present area exam requirement. The suggestions which Clodfelter made at Tuesday's meeting were
drawn up into a proposal which he presented at an unpublicized meeting of the class in Chambers basement Wednesday night.
“We don't view this as the end of the exams,” he said. “It is not a demand and it is
not absolute.” Clodfelter’s proposal favored exemption from the requirement of area exams for the passing class of 1972 and a
revision for 1973-4 which would require that four exams be passed by graduation. In recommending this course of action, Clodfelter
mentioned “the insufficient (See STUDENT, Page Two) EPC To Reconsider Area Exams Dark clouds are gathering in the “blue skies”
of Davidson. Students, worried about the area examination program, are agitating for the suspension of the exams. The Educational Policy
Committee will hold an open meeting Monday at 2:30 in the faculty room to hear student proposals concerning the program,
for, according to the EPC chairman Dr. Jay Ostwalt, the students are “the one major interest group still to be
heard on the subject.” The EPC has been wrestling with the idea of area exams since last spring. At that
time three students (Steve Salyer, Brantley Buck, and Todd Hobbie) spoke to the committee about what they felt was the
failure of the examinations to encourage students to obtain “a breadth of liberal learning.” “The examinations are not working as
we'd hoped they would,” Committeeman Dr. Max E. Polley explained. “The committee is very conscious of the pressure on the
sophomore class and sympathetic to their problem.” Ostwalt admitted, “I am concerned, and, if I read the faculty correctly, there
is a very serious concern over the whole program of area exams. A special effort needs to be made to
help students prepare for the exams and to relieve the pressure of the exams.” Ostwalt also noted that there is
an unusually large number of students requesting transfer information. “To these students, I advise waiting to see what changes will
be made. I'm certain that changes will be made by December at the latest. As far as transferring is concerned,
I do not see any Moratorium Gains Plans for the Oct. 15 Vietnam Moratorium continue to expand, despite protests from
small sectors of the student body that the suspension of classes on that day is an infringement of their legal
rights. Student Body President Peter Hobbie, answering the protesters, said this week that the moratorium will in no way force
any protest or opinion on anyone. “We are hoping for a mature response,” Hobbie said, emphasizing that the resolution adopted
by the faculty last week in no way establishes a school-wide pro- Lesesne Queries (Ed. Note: This is the first
of several installments from Saigon to be sent in by former DAVIDSONIAN editor Louis Lesesne.) By LOUIS LESESNE SAIGON—The country
boy comes to the Big City. The shock of confronting for the first time a completely foreign way of life
(not counting California). Who’s Who Chooses 19 Nineteen Davidson seniors have been elected to Who's Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges. These students were chosen by a vote of a committee consisting of faculty, staff and members of
the Junior Class. Sterling Abernathy is a chemistry major from Redstone Arsenal, Ala. He is a member of the Senate
Executive Committee. Franklin Anderson, a Richardson Fellow and a psychology major from Memphis, Tenn., is former co-editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
He led the student Constitutional revision program his sophomore year. A psychology major, Emerson Bell of Valdosta, Ga., is president
of the YMCA and a member of ODK and Phi Delta Theta. Robert Bryan of La Grange, North Carolina, captained
Davidson's College Bowl team to five straight victories. He is a history major. Ken Crews is a co-freshman adviser, chairman
of the Honor Court, and a member of Richardson Fellows. He is a political science major from Oklahoma City, Okla.
Editor-in-Chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Bob Dunham of Clearwater, Fla., is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary leadership fraternity and
has served on the Interfraternity Council and Court of Appeals. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. George Hannen
is a captain of the football team and a leading pass receiver. A hall counselor and member of Kappa Alpha
and Richardson Fellows, he is a psychology major from Durham. Interfraternity Council President Dan Herd is a political science major
from Midland, Tex. He is also a KA, a member of ODK and the Senate Executive Committee and serves as
a hall counselor. SGA President Peter Hobbie is a member of ODK and served as vice president of the SGA
before his election to the presidency. He is a history major from Little Rock, Ark. Joe Kilpatrick, an English major
from Charlotte, is a member of the Richardson Fellows. He is president of ODK and serves on the faculty Student
Life Committee. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Sigma Chi Jerry Kroll is co-captain of the basketball team
and was on the all-conference team last year. A history major, he is from Houston, Tex. Mike Maloy, Davidson's third
All-American in basketball, is a Sigma Chi and a political science major from New York. He was voted as most
outstanding player in the conference last season. Jim May of Spring Hope is president of the Union Board. He is
majoring in history. Stagg Newman, a math major from Ravenswood, W. Va., is captain of the cross country team and
chairman of the Regulations Court. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. Ricky Phillips, of Old Saybrook, Conn., has
been active in STEP. He is a double psychology-sociology major. An associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Robert Pyeatt has worked
extensively in the YMCA-sponsored tutorial program and is a member of the YMCA Cabinet. He is a history major from
Sweetwater, Tex. David Sweatt is a member of the faculty Educational Policy Committee and chaired the Committee on Cars and
Scholarships that last spring obtained a change in the rule barring scholarship students from owning cars. He is an associate
editor for THE DAVIDSONIAN and was president of the Freshman Class at Cornell before transferring to Davidson. He is a
political science major from Charleston, S. C. Cary Tucker, a major from Va. Dave Wasserman, a psychology major from Cincinnati,
Ohio, has servedFor two years as a hall counselor and coordinates the inter-church high school groups in Davidson. He is
a Sigma Chi.

By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

Davidson College's future will have to wait two months. That comprehensive $41,000 study being done by the Academy for Educational
Development (AED) is already a month late and is not expected until the first of November. Because of the delay,
the trustees will hold a special meeting in January to consider AED’s recommendations.

President Samuel R. Spencer said the delay is due to problems in bringing AED’s panel “to the scene.” He expressed
no great concern over the delay, explaining that the panel members are important men with full schedules. Although admitting that
the $41,000 fee seems excessive, Spencer maintained that “in comparison with other management firms, this is a very reasonable figure.”
He pointed out AED’s non-profit status.

“We're paying for a service, not a product,” added Spencer, explaining that AED had enlisted “some of the best people
in the country. I would be extremely disappointed if we didn’t get that money back many times over,” Spencer said.

In his inaugural address, Spencer called for “a comprehensive study which would examine all aspects of the College and make
detailed recommendations concerning the College's future.” The AED study will include consideration of size, goals, organization, administration, faculty resources, business
and financial management, the student situation, public service, curriculum, and facilities.

Spencer said AED was chosen to conduct the study because of its educational orientation, breadth of interest, and nationally recognized
staff of “top-level people.” Rexford S. Munn, who is directing the Davidson study, was formerly director of the College Scholarship
Service of the College Entrance Examination Board, and has been a consultant to the Ford Foundation and to the U.S.
Office of Education.

Spencer said the study was needed “to see ourselves as others see us.” For this task, the College wanted people
who would give us an outside view, not bound by vested interests.” In general, the study will enable Davidson College
“to do a better job.”

Failure to pass exams would have no bearing on the other school’s decision on your application. “We would just say
that the particular student did not wish to participate in our area examination program. But I would like to make
it very clear that the control is at the other end, not at Davidson.” The record made by those taking
the area exams provides ample grounds for the test-of the war.

The faculty resolution, as passed, reads: “Resolved, that the faculty of Davidson College expresses its concern over the war in
Vietnam. While as individuals we differ in detail, this body agrees to support the Vietnam Moratorium on classes for October
15 only.”

The moratorium at Davidson differs in scope and in practice from the nationwide effort. The plans for the day are
evolving around an open, forum-type discussion, rather than centering on active protest and “doorbell ringing.” Only 21 students have passed
the language, literature, and arts exam of 42 who have attempted it. Five of 22 passed the philosophy and religion
area, 86 of 147 the mathematics area, 28 of 65 the natural science area, and 22 of 65 the social
sciences area.

This fall the EPC has held several meetings and has actively solicited opinions from the faculty and administration. According to
Polley, the principal activity of the EPC has been listening to and collecting these opinions. Polley pointed out that the
apparent failure of the examinations thus far was the responsibility of both the faculty and the students. “There is evidence
that many have done little work to prepare for these exams. Books have not been bought at the bookstore and
have not been checked out of the library.”

Plans for the moratorium were revealed earlier this week. The committee organizing the moratorium had contacted Sen. Edward Kennedy (D.-Mass.)
as a speaker, but after consideration, Kennedy declined the invitation for undisclosed reasons. Hobbie was still hoping this morning that
a speaker from Washington could be contacted, but he made no definite names available. Hobbie said that he was not
after “a big name,” but he was after increased student interest and thought that a well-known speaker would expand the
interest.

Saigon, ‘This Is A War?’

My first reaction: “This is a war?” True, there are some manifestations: barbed wire around a police station on every
corner, barbed wire around government buildings, occasional terrorist attacks. But life goes on. And Americans in the city would be
hard-pressed to convince people they're in a war zone. Air-conditioned hotels, complete with stereos, refrigerators, and TVs. GIs jam the
government messes and cheer the floor shows, from Filipino-style to the fare one might hear at the Lake Norman House
of Music on a Saturday night. Others go native. Entertainment is even more plentiful on the local economy. Infamous Tu
Do Street features wall-to-wall bars, with beer for a buck and Saigon tea for $1.75. A Saigon tea cup is
the size of a liqueur glass. You buy it for the privilege of talking, nothing more, with the bar girls.
Business is booming. Talk of devastation to the Vietnamese economy is confusing. There are thousands and thousands of Hondas, far
more than the streets were designed to hold. Before the war, I'm told, people rode bicycles. People look healthy, dress
neatly. But more than once I've seen a mother with a baby and worldly goods, camping on a downtown sidewalk.
Sheets of cardboard, like those that crate appliances, serve to close in the side of a hut for a family.
Refugees live where they can.

I can't honestly say I’m getting to know the people well. For Americans here, it’s difficult. Advisors outside the city
work with Americans, in offices rented for the U.S., and live in all-U.S. hotels. Uncle Sam gave me five weeks
in San Diego studying the language. Now I can exchange greetings and ask directions. The trouble is, I don't understand
the answers. When I get lost, I invariably find myself surrounded by a crowd telling me how to get where
I'm going, and all I can say is “Xin noi cham” (“Please speak slowly”). Uncle Sam hires as many English-speaking
Vietnamese as he can. They work everywhere.

BULLETIN!

At a special meeting last night, Sigma Chi fraternity voted disaffiliation with its national chapter and vowed to establish itself
as a “selective social and eating division without ritual initiation.” In registering its vote, Sigma Chi became the first Davidson
fraternity ever to disaffiliate with its national office.

According to Hobbie, 15 schools have suspended classes for the Moratorium, with Davidson being the only school in the Southeast
(south of Pennsylvania and east of California) to do so. A number of schools, however, have endorsed the moratorium on
“business as usual,” without formal suspension of activities. It is the actual suspension which has aroused the feelings of a
number of students at Davidson. Robert Bryan, a senior representing the campus Young Americans for Freedom, nationally a conservative organization,
called the faculty action “repulsive and tawdry.” Although he said that no legal action is being planned to secure class
meetings, he said that the faculty action represented a violation of his rights of free speech, adding that since he
cannot attend class he is made a part of “the protest.”

The plans for the day are being finalized. Rev. L. F. Griffin, a well-known civil rights worker from Prince Edward
County, Va., will deliver an address in the morning on the effect of the war on national priorities. His talk
will be followed by the second speaker, yet to be named. The afternoon program calls for a free interchange of
ideas from faculty and students, to be initiated by faculty viewpoints. The evening program will be a worship service for
the Vietnam war casualties, conducted as a memorial service.

(Staff Photo by Lyle)

THE FOREST AFTER THE RAIN

The camera captures the raindrops’ last moments.
