FURMAN WON THE TOSS

But it was the only break the Paladins got.

Tangerines in Future? Anything Can Happen

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

The meek shall inherit the earth, and the Davidson football team actually has a fair chance of going to a post-season bowl game this year. And that's not the Sugar Bowl or the Rose Bowl but the Tangerine Bowl, way down in Orlando, Florida, where last year Richmond’s Southern Conference champions reminded the rest of the world that there still is a Southern Conference.

The skeptics and the Wildcats present their case last weekend. Davidson stomped, smeared, zapped, and any other suitable verb that you can think of a just-bad Furman team, 77-14. Richmond’s head coach Frank Jones, back with another strong team to defend his conference title and coach of the year award, was a skeptic concerning Davidson football. He isn’t anymore.

“It’s appalling what that team did to Furman,” Jones said after hearing scouting reports. “Sure, I’ll admit that I was like everyone else before the season and that I didn’t count Davidson as a very strong threat to the title, but this is amazing.”

Another skeptic, East Carolina coach Clarence Stasavich, figured that “Davidson might be able to upset any team in the league, but they’re not strong enough to go all the way.” Now Stasavich is a believer. “For one team to score that well off another can’t be completely luck. They’ve really got something down at Davidson.”

Developments around the rest of the conference have further strengthened the Wildcats’ claim to conference power. Pre-season favorite Richmond lost a close contest to a mediocre (by Southeastern Conference standards) Mississippi State and then got clobbered, massacred, in a victory over hapless VMI. VMI is so bad that it lost to East Tennessee, getting shut out in the process. The only team that still appears skeptical is The Citadel, which didn’t believe in Davidson either.

Young players in strange positions will make mistakes the first time around, but the good ones won’t make the same mistakes twice. The Davidson junior varsity football players did indeed make mistakes in the first quarter last Friday against Gardner-Webb, but they repeated very few of them in a 42-14 comeback win.

The Bulldogs had an effective running game in the first quarter, as they pushed over two scores and seemed headed for a third as the period ended. However, the Wildcats’ defense stiffened to halt that threat and that was the end of the Bulldog menace. Meanwhile, the junior passing combination of Mark Thompson and Rick Lyon showed that Coach Homer Smith will not lose his aerial attack when Gordon Slade and Mike Kelly graduate.

First indication of the Thompson-Lyon heroics came in the first quarter when Lyon took Thompson's pass and outran the Gardner-Webb secondary for an 87-yard touchdown to tie the game at 7. Thompson passed for four touchdowns and ran for one score, coming out in the third quarter. He hit on 19 tosses for four touchdowns, three to Lyon and one to sophomore running back Danny Ribet. Lyon snared 13 of Thompson’s passes for 304 yards while sophomore Randy Parker caught five for 63 yards.

The Davidson performance came as a surprise to the coaching staff, which believed that the number of players going both ways would make it hard for the Cats to keep up with the Bulldogs.

AND KICKED AND KICKED

As Ed Terry boots one of 11 extra points last week.

THE WILDCATS RAN AND RAN

Like Ken Hill on this long jaunt.

Junior Passing Team Bombs Gardner-Webb

The Wildcats attacked and scored 42 points in the second quarter against the Paladins last week as the defense triggered the most awesome display of football in the history of the Southern Conference. Ed Terry broke a school and conference record in the rout by kicking 11 extra points. At one point in the game when the Wildcats had moved within field goal range, he reportedly told Smith not to send him in.

Smith emphatically denies that he tried to run up a big margin. “No one who was at the game could honestly say that we tried to run up the score. Furman had a good ball club. In the second quarter, we just died.”

After thinking it over, Davidson head coach Homer Smith still couldn’t believe the second fifteen minutes of the contest. “Never in all my life have I ever seen anything like it,” said Smith.Terry was. nam ty conmmus to ao so. Asst. Sports Editor the defense was the Ingzfac- “ed conference offensive “You've w#oi io remember football history. - Saturday While both Davidson and or. With an average defen- player of the week. that the offense hadn't Scor night- Davidson invades Ala- Furman are both still in sive effort 1, would have There” have been-some cd fn the These quarterin mo Stadium in San Antonio the Southern Conference... been“the close game,, that complaints that. Smith was fact they hadn't moved the Texas, to meet the winless Furman must be “more everybody expected.” running up the score against ball well, in the second Trinity University Tigers. souther” this week. The Cat defense snared the Paladins from report quarter we tried for every - The Tigers have lost two Davidson exploded for 49 four interceptions in the ers and apparently from point we could get.’ close contests while show- second quarter, and added a fifth in the second half. Chris Giles and Nick Durham each carried one in for a score. the Davidson faculty. where A sign was reportedly post- ed on the bulletin board reading ‘God still lives at Davidson but sportsmanship The Wildcats have spent ing the week preparing for the a good offense but a shaky defense. play at opportunistic foot- because “I'm too tired from first quarter they moved the running on and off the field ball well against us and it, kick-extra points." Por looked like they were going seen anything like that. “The second quarter was the whole story of the ball- to a a.” He PALADINS HAVE THEIR DOWNS “os7 intercepted, a few fumbles, te. *repare five ° ” : is ites | For Baby Bugs By DICK DOWNEY Sports Writer ne shown a great deal of promise. according to McEver. Injuries have already taken their toll on two of Davidson’s Wildkitten, fresh- man football team gets its chance this afternoon to, add laurels of its own to the growing Davidson football program. The 35-man squad of highly regarded Richmond University freshmen, hoping for revenge from a setback last season. According to frosh coach Gene McEver, the Richmond team should be, as good as any team that we face.” However, things could be different this time that the Wildkittens and Baby Spid- ers meet. According to Drew Pledger, an injured varsity player doubling as freshman assistant, “Richmond is al- ways tough, but Davidson's freshmen are looking 200 per- cent better than before. They're bigger and faster. and they sure put out a lot of effort." by mononucleosis since graduate of the University of Tennessee and a two-time Davidson) P ‘ All American, was also head (Staff photos by ‘AND PASSED AND PASSED As Gordon Slade throws larger Bulldog squad in the . So far several players February, Fisher and Cul- second half. Several play for another completion have been outstanding for breth suffer from bad backs, ers were at positions which the Kittens. Andy David, and Hemrick has an injured they had not played in prec- end. Scotty Shipp. the quart- ed shoulder. Pledger said and linebacker, erback, son, a that he hopes to be well enough to play next year. Jimmy Hardi all have tice sessions. (Continued From Page ‘ 4) ternity tanks. Coach Bik Funderburk expects the defense and of- fense to be improved. and will play the fall players: John Steisner, Shutt. Jim May, Will Steve Salyer, ToC] Jim Trevathan. Rick de-Water. Dan Graham. Al- lon Peterson, Norris Frederick, and Tim Wairter. 12) Sigma Nus’ The Nu's lost almost their entire team from last sea- son and just have not found the players to replace the team that went 8-3. They will be lucky to reverse that record this year. Returnees from last sea- son are Steve "esos and Clark Nickerson. Other players are John Heitmann. Jim Beck, Calvin Murphy, Rick Bush. Keith Sykes, Robert Bolt, Bill Spencer. and Dan- ny Jordan. 13. Pi Kapps— The Pi Kapps did not win a game last season and will probably have the same re- cord again. They just do not have the players to com- pete. AND SCORED AND SCORED Such as when Slade added another touchdown on a sneak.