LEFTY RUMORED TO BE LEAVING (See Page Four)

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1969

By ROBERT ELLIOTT
Staff Writer

The only thing Davidson's FM radio station still needs to start broadcasting is its construction permit from the Federal Communications Agency. "Because we haven't received the construction permit, we can't start taking equipment from the radio truck," said Ed Dobbs, director of WDAV. "We are going to sell some equipment in the truck for more money. Until we can sell the equipment and the truck we'll have to rely on the $900 left from the activities fund."

Dobbs said that if it was necessary he could ask the school for money. "If we can't get money any other way then we'll have to approach (Business Manager) Bert Currie about raising the student activities fee."

WDAV Only FCC’s Permit Still Lacks

Dobbs said that the results of a questionnaire handed out last month have been evaluated. "Top 40 music received 35 percent of the votes; popular, 20 percent; folk, country and western, 20 percent; and classical, 25 percent. This survey shows we will have to block broadcast because of the wide spread of preferences of music," said Dobbs. Block broadcasting is playing one type of music for two or three hours at a time. "We'll have to play more classical music than the survey shows," said Dobbs. "This is because we are the only station in the area that will play classical music."

The station will come on the air at noon and play Top 40 music first, Dobbs said. "Before and after supper we'll play folk, country and western music," Dobbs said. "During early study hours we will play popular music. After 10 it will be classical music or various programs."

"We could change the format from time to time according to student preferences," he said. "We plan to print in THE DAVIDSONIAN every Friday the next week's broadcast schedule. We will also send around every month a broad sketch of the upcoming programs."

Dobbs said the staff includes Production Manager David Stimpson; Business Manager Jimmy Wright; Program Director Scott Keeter; Chief Disc Jockey David Cook; Chief Engineer Skip Smoak; Record Librarian Eddy Webb; Publicity Director Phil Leonard; Assistant Engineer Vonnie Hicks; and Assistant to the Station Manager Clint Stretch. "Our consulting engineer, Rutledge Withers, had to do six months reserve duty in the Navy, but now he is helping us again," Dobbs said.

UVa To Go Coed In 1970

By BIFF FINE
Copy Editor

Women will be admitted to the previously all-male University of Virginia in the fall of 1970 under the terms of a resolution approved by the university's governing body last weekend. The Virginia Board of Visitors voted for the change after an 18-month study on the desirability of coeducation. The study was conducted by the president and the Committee on the Future of the University.

Virginia was the only all-male state university in the country. The committee had recommended that a program be adopted which would preserve the traditions of the university and also provide the optimum educational experience for students within this framework. In the report emphasis is placed on the maintenance of high standards during the transitional period. The resolution states that "the faculty and facilities of the university should not be burdened to the extent that the effectiveness of the educational program is impaired. In particular, an adequate length of time must be provided for the transition."

RHC Closes Watts After Water Fight

Two dorms will be open to women this weekend, but a request for a third open dorm was revoked Wednesday after a water fight there Tuesday night. Duke and Belk dorms will both be open from 8 to 12 tonight and tomorrow night. Watts had originally been approved by the Residence Hall Council, according to Watts RHC member Bill Gregory, but the RHC reversed its previous unanimous decision and closed the dorm after the water fight. Gregory said the RHC took the action to prevent further closings, calling the water fight "an unfortunate incident."

Six Seniors Win Wilson Awards

By DAVID GRISSETT
Staff Writer

Six Davidson College seniors have been named Woodrow Wilson designates for graduate study in 1969-70 and two other seniors received honorable mention. The designates, one of the largest such groups at Davidson in recent years, were among 1,106 fellows across 11,704 nominees, according to the Woodrow Wilson National Foundation in Princeton, N. J.

The awards are designed to recognize some of "the best future college teachers on the continent," according to the foundation, which is supported by Ford Foundation funds.

Although not all of the designates will receive financial aid directly from the foundation, their names will be recommended to every graduate school in the United States and Canada. Last year 85 percent of the designates received financial awards from graduate schools of their choice, and the rest were supported by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation funds. The honorable mention list will also be sent to the graduate schools.

The designates at Davidson were: Dick Chandler, Ben Martin, Randy Phillips, Charles Skinner and Jim Vest. Receiving honorable mention were Bill Anderson and Paul Gallis.

QUEENIES STAGE CHAPEL BOYCOTT (See Page Three)

NUMBER SEVENTEEN

WALKS CLEARED OF SNOW

Maintenance crews helped college maintain its schedule.

Court Dates Stranded As ‘Snow’ Falls

By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

Mid-Winters dates were subjected to much more snow than usual this weekend - the result of a storm that dumped about a foot of the white stuff on the Davidson area. The snow began Saturday evening about 7 and continued with only short intermittent pauses well into Sunday night. Although many of the 700 dates left during the day, some remained on campus Sunday as scheduled, either by choice or on account of the weather. Traffic at the Charlotte airport was slowed all day Sunday, and buses were delayed or not running at all. All the girls rooming in Richardson and Belk Dormitories moved out Sunday, and those who remained in Davidson stayed in various homes in town.Of Students, James J. Terry Jr. said that some 135 girls were placed in homes. Townspeople were most cooperative in alleviating the housing shortage, Terry said. Most of the girls were able to leave campus on Monday, although a few were still here Tuesday.

Validity Of Recent Amendment At Odds, Courts Agree: Judiciary In Quandary

"We're going to do what they'll let us do," said Dick Allison, acting chairman of the SGA Court of Appeals, in reference to Dr. R. D. Kaylor’s recent letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Kaylor, associate professor of religion, stated in his letter that a Court of Appeals did not have any authority over the Regulations Court, since the SGA Constitution has not been approved by the faculty. Kaylor's letter was prompted by a Court of Appeals writ which included a provision ruling that campusing was unconstitutional and therefore invalid.

1970 provided in the recruitment of such additional faculty and staff members as may be required. The committee also resolved that the enrollment of men would not decrease as a result of the coeducation process.

Kaylor Status

"I think we do have a chaotic situation," Kaylor said, referring to the status of the SGA Constitution. "A lot of this arises from the way things are structured," Allison said. "There are places in the constitution that don't say what we're really doing. We've got to change our ways or change the constitution."

Kaylor said in his letter that one of the main objections of the faculty to the constitution was that it was frequently vague or inconsistent. A constitutional convention was called to rectify the weaknesses in the document, but a recent restraining order by the Court of Appeals has halted the work of the convention. A Court of Constitutional Review is under consideration in the convention to replace the Court of Appeals, but the constitution cannot be revised for that purpose until the restraining order is rescinded.

"The boundaries of the Court of Appeals are pretty much undefined," Allison said. "Cooperation and coordination in working out the whole blooming mess have been poor."

"The court cannot initiate action or stop any faculty," Allison said; "those writs were directed at pushing things. They were the opinion of the students on the court."

"When the students approved the constitution they passed the Court of Appeals," (See ALLISON, Page 6).

KAYLOR questions authority

First Area Exam Snags Freshmen

By STEVE CROSS
Asst. Managing Editor

One out of the 14 freshmen who took the Area IV exam passed it, Registrar Jay Ostwalt said this week. Area IV, social sciences, is the only one on which grading is complete. Grading is still incomplete on the exams for Areas I and III. Twenty-nine freshmen signed up for the Area III exam in natural sciences and mathematics, according to Chemistry Professor James Frederickson, who heads the Area III Exam Committee.

71 Named To Posts In SGA

The student Senate approved a revised list of nominees to 71 different positions in student government last Thursday night. After returning the Senate Executive Committee's first list of recommendations to the SEC for reconsideration the night before, the Senate with little debate confirmed the nominations unanimously.

Major appointments included:
-Robert Elliott, Danny White, and Danny Clodfelter to three vacant Senate seats.
-Howard Ramagli, Biff Fine, and Tom Wheatley to the Court of Appeals to replace Frank Anderson, Bud Cousar, and Bob Dunham, who have resigned.
-Joe Kilpatrick and Dick Allison to the faculty Student Life Committee.
-Rich Cowart to the faculty Educational Policy Committee.
-Cecil Burney, Ran Coble, Gary Cash, Dan Herd, and Sterling Abernathy as an advisory panel to the Faculty Executive Committee.

Dr. Max Polley, professor of religion, said that seven students registered for Area I, language, and literature. No students, he said, signed up for the Area II exam, religion and philosophy. Ostwalt said that of the 14 taking the social sciences exam, three were just under the passing mark. All the failures scored under 50 percent. Polley explained that the purpose of area exams, which have been instituted as part of the Blue Sky program and are being given for the first time to the Class of '72, was to "insure that the students have knowledge of large areas in the curriculum." Future exams will be given in September, January, and May.

Riner Sparks Action

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

Phil Riner precipitated a constitutional crisis this week by bringing into question the validity of the most recent constitutional amendment and the seating of three new senators. Riner has obtained, with the signatures of four Court of Appeals members, two restraining orders, which deal with two separate constitutional issues.

The first restraining order prevents the Senate Executive Committee from taking further executive action, claiming that the amendment which established the committee was illegally passed and is, therefore, invalid. Sophomore Paul Rowland, who will handle this issue before the Court of Appeals, said that his case is based on the fact that proper election procedure was not implemented in the passage of the amendment by the student body. Among the objections Rowland said would be raised are the facts that the Elections Board was not in charge of the voting process and that no checklist of any kind was used to prevent multiple voting. "I'm confident we'll win the case on the procedural (See CONSTITUTIONAL, Page 6).

Fraternities Seek Security Pledge

By CHARLIE KNIGHTON
Staff Writer

The question of going local continues to be a widespread topic of discussion on the fraternity court. Representatives of fraternities met at the Alpha Tau Omega house last night to discuss the prospects. This was the second such meeting initiated by the ATOs. According to senior ATO member Greg Simmons, "the mood was conservative" at the first meeting. However, most representatives seemed to be interested in strengthening the fraternities for some sort of "unified bargaining."

Senior Robbie Hooker, a Sigma Phi Epsilon representative, said that a representative is coming from the national ATO office at the request of the ATO house in order to discuss matters. Simmons and a second senior ATO member, Garee Thomas, met with President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Wednesday morning to discuss the school's role in a system of local fraternities. Simmons and Thomas sought "written or oral assurance" that the college would not use such financial control to interfere in fraternity affairs. Incorporation of the Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) so that it would be able to make loans to both local and national houses on campus was suggested and discussed. There is a committee headed by Garee Thomas working on this.