CAN HISTORY REPEAT?

THE DAVIDSONIAN renews its challenge to the Quips and Cranks and the Miscellany for the Annual Challenge Cup Croquet Match.
Last year, for the first time in recorded history, the Q&C won when a bored DAVIDSONIAN team, irked that the
Q&C didn’t show, had part of its own staff play for the Q&C.

SWEATT EXAMINES BLACK MILITANTS (See Page 2)

The Newspaper Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1969 NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

Car Ownership Restriction Holds

By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

“This is the biggest disappointment we've ever had in a joint student-faculty attempt to solve a problem,” said Student Government
President Peter Hobbie to the Senate Wednesday. He was speaking in response to preliminary proposals for change in the policy
of scholarship student car possession presented by the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid.

Dave Sweatt explained to the Senate the proposed new rules, which he called “complicated and confusing,” amid groans by the
senators. The proposals have not been submitted yet and, according to Sweatt, will be reconsidered because of strong opposition on
the part of a Senate study committee on the problem headed by Sweatt. The proposed report suggested that students having
cars be allowed to receive loans, but that scholarships be discontinued. Time for having a car on campus could be
accumulated so that a senior could keep a car for 14 weeks. One senator remarked that the proposals were “worse
than present policy.”

Hobbie commented to the Senate, “I don’t see how they can just write off the black student and the poor
student.” He compared the need for cars to the need to join fraternities and pointed out that scholarship students are
allowed to spend money to join fraternities. Members of the Senate objected to the long delay in receiving recommendations from
the Financial Aid Committee, and also the secrecy of a confidential report that was to be submitted with the proposals.
“Do they think the students are enemies?” Hobbie asked.

When committee chairman William B. Hight was informed of the Senate reaction to the committee's preliminary proposals, he said, “There's
nothing to defend. Every man is examining his conscience to try to do what is best for the college and
the students. We are still considering the problem.” “I would like to say,” he added, “that I have never known
a harder working admissions committee.”

Hobbie directed the study committee to continue to work with the Financial Aid Committee. But he said that the Senate
had waited long enough and the school year would soon be over. He seemed to sum up the attitude of
the Senate when he warned, “We're not going to let time run out on us.”

RED INK

Remaining issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN this year will include four pages rather than the usual six. The cutback in size
is the result of lack of sufficient funds to continue publishing six pages. Budget increases are being requested for next
year so that THE DAVIDSONIAN will be able to resume publication of six pages a week. Because of the financial
squeeze, subscription rates for next year will be increased to $7. Next week’s DAVIDSONIAN will be distributed late Friday night
so as to include a report on the meeting of the Trustees that afternoon.

Trustees and faculty are both to vote this week on the resolution proposing voluntary ROTC, said President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr. The faculty will meet Monday at 10 a.m. to vote on a resolution approved last week by the faculty
Educational Policy Committee recommending a voluntary basic program, with exemption from physical education for those taking drill. If the faculty
passes the resolution, trustees are scheduled to vote on it Thursday in the Morrison Room to hear student and faculty
opinion on ROTC instruction. Also on the agenda will be Spencer’s report on dormitory responsibilities and the furnishings of the
dormitories, as well as some necessary items.

Coed Exchange Week Dissolves From Lack Of Student Support

By DAVID GRISSETT
Asst. Managing Editor

The Coed exchange week between Davidson and Randolph-Macon College was cancelled Tuesday afternoon because of a lack of applications for
participation from Davidson students. The exchange week had been scheduled for next week, May 5-12. “We have no other choice
but to cancel or at least postpone coed week,” said Jonny Jewett, Chairman of Coed Week, in an interview late
Tuesday afternoon. “The sole reason is that we couldn't get enough students to go.”

Resolution Action Stalled; IFC To Open Investigation

Only one committee has taken any direct action in response to last week's Student Life Committee resolution on fraternity hazing.
The resolution, which condemned actions on the parts of individual fraternities during Greek Week activities, called for action from the
Interfraternity Council, the Jurisdiction Committee, and the Committee on the College Union, Fraternities, and Clubs. The judicial board of the
IFC is the only group that has responded, although the Committee on the College Union, Fraternities, and Clubs met and
decided to abolish itself.

The IFC judiciary conducted one trial of a Greek Week offense this week, and plans to conduct a series of
investigations into the alleged activities. “Whether the result be a conviction or not,” said IFC Vice President and Judicial Board
head Dave Wasserman, “we do believe that the action now under way will alleviate the problem next year.”

The hazing activities in question were condemned by the Student Life Committee after an article appeared in the April 11
edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN describing specific acts of hazing. The Committee on the College Union, Fraternities, and Clubs voted last
weekend to seek a revision of the faculty constitution which would dissolve the committee. According to a printed statement, the
committee members felt that its functions were covered by the Student Life Committee, and since the SLC is an elective
committee and has...Wider functions, the committee said, the lower, appointive committee should be "the one to give away." The Jurisdiction
Committee chairman, Burts, said that the committee would meet to consider the investigation requested and added that the investigation had
been delayed due to prior commitments on his part.

Jewett said that though the initial number of applications by Davidson students for coed week had been 110, this number
had dwindled to the eighties and could easily have gone lower. "It would be essential that Davidson students fill a
dorm at Randolph-Macon, and we just don’t have that number," he said. Jewett made the point that the Coed week
committee at Davidson made extensive attempts to stir up interest in the program by letters, posters, and talks on the
projected week. "We postponed deadlines for applications too, but to no avail," he said. Explaining why student recruitment at Davidson
had been a failure, Jewett said: "Most students seemed to like the idea of coed week, but this interest did
not extend to a willingness to participate in it. There were a number of conflicts which restricted participation also—spring sports,
the drama department, and other conflicts."

"All the details were ready except for having the necessary work taken care of in the church, such as painting,
plaster, and so forth." The final decision on a change in investment policy which would allow spending of endowment principal
was proposed as an amendment to trustee bylaws last October and is to be considered this May. The committee on
it will meet at their spring meeting here. Friday is an open meeting.

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

The meeting, however, is one of these proverbial Ad Hoc groups, with Randy Phillips as chairman. Other members of the
original committee were Marvin Ellison, Richard Robinson, George Norwood, and Kurt Geisinger. Phillips explained the goals of his committee, saying
that, "We have printed and distributed sheets of figures on the wages and hours of fraternity cooks to show that
a problem exists and that it can be dealt with."

To Vote On ROTC

No recommendations are to be made concerning the alumni, church, or public relations, said the president, because "we expect the
AED study to come up with recommendations." The routine business of adoption of a budget for next year will not,
however, consider the library site until the study of the college, now being conducted by the Academy for Educational Development,
is complete. This consideration of the library will come next year.

"I want people in each house to work toward the adequacy of salaries," Phillips said (See FRATERNITY, Page 6).

On The Inside

Money that could have been used for a symposium—$650 in fact—is going back to the college at the end of
the year unspent, while $300 is being reserved for a trip to a summer student government convention. All of it
happens without the knowledge or concurrence of the Senate, which has sole power to appropriate student funds. As the student
government concludes the third consecutive year in which it has overbudgeted and underspent, THE DAVIDSONIAN delves into the maze of
student finances. (See SGA BUDGET, Page 6).

THE DAVIDSONIAN

See The DAVIDSONIAN Report focuses this week on how THE DAVIDSONIAN works, the unreported story behind the stories in the
newspaper each week. Past editors and staffers take a humorous look at their experiences with the paper, and current editors-in-chief
Bob Dunham and Frank Anderson explain exactly what, to them, THE DAVIDSONIAN means. "How THE DAVIDSONIAN Operates" appears on Page
3 this week.

Why did the freshman attempt to flood the cafeteria with students for Thursday morning breakfast fail? Partly because a Senate
Executive Committee member tipped off the cafeteria manager. (See BURNEY, Page 6).

Bowl Team Champions

The Davidson College Bowl team became the 23rd team in the ten years history of the show to win five
contests in succession when it defeated Dillard University last Sunday. College Bowl competition has been a source of favorable national
publicity and has been the direct cause of inquiries concerning admission procedures by applicants. The string of five victories over
Colgate, University of Arizona, Wesleyan, Skidmore, and Dillard were the result of the consistently quick minds and hands of Robert
Bryan, Richard Anderson, Tim Timmons, Sam Gwyn, Bob Reid, and coach Charles E. Lloyd. The victors have had a perceptible
influence upon the atmosphere of the school—a rise in interest similar to that resulting from basketball. An important benefit is
the $19,500 given to Davidson for scholarship purposes by General Electric, Seventeen Magazine, and Gimbel’s department stores, and there is
the silver bowl engraved with the names of the team members and presented to the school.

In the five contest series, the team amassed the fourth highest total score of 1560 points among 1560 schools. The
three schools ahead, all of which are also five-game winners, are Brandeis with 1860, Rice with 1760, and Portland State
with 1725. With a single game high of 415 points, recorded against Wesleyan, the team has tied Portland State for
fifth place in this category. Brandeis holds first place with a high of 515, Rice has second and third with
scores of 455 and 450, and fourth is Boston College with 420 points. The point difference between Davidson's total points
scored and the sum of its opponents' scores is 1120 (1560-440). This compares with Brandeis’ figure of 1150 (1860-710), Rice’s
margin of 1135 (1760-625), and Portland State’s figure of 1285 (1725-440).

One of the better teams that Davidson faced was Dillard. Its members were very likely to respond, but their major
failing was that they did not take advantage of the bonus situation presented after they successfully answered one of the
toss-up questions. Dillard could well have beaten most of Davidson's other opponents. "They were that good," Professor Charles E. Lloyd,
coach of Davidson's team, said. With such an impressive string of victories, the team members have nevertheless maintained their modesty.
Bryan, or "La Grange Flash" as he was dubbed by the Dillard team, contended that "fortune has stood us in
good stead." Lloyd feels that "the run of the questions determined the course" of the games to a certain degree.

The team has been in training since January, when it was selected from those students participating in trial heats. Team
members have been under the pressure of competition for five weeks and have expressed relief that the contests are over.
"It will be a relief not to be sick on Sunday mornings," Bryan said.
