**Page Four**

TWISTS AND TWIRLS

Tau’s Taylor Huris
May 16, 1969

Delts Take Another, Win IMAC Softball

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The Phi Delts compiled three wins this week to capture the IMAC softball title with an 11-1 record. The title was their third in major sports for the year, since they had previously won flickerball and tied for the basketball championship. The Delts lost only to the Sigma Nus, in an upset of sorts in which the Delts played shorthanded. In this week's game, the Delts beat the Phi Gamms 8-1, and the ATO’s, 10-8, and took a forfeit from the Kappa Sigs. The ATO game was the final victory over a challenging team and practically assured the Delts the title even before Wednesday's forfeit by the Sigs. The Delt team has been led by Dave Fearnback. He has done an above-average job of pitching after switching from third base early in the season, but his hitting has really carried the Delts. He was at his best in the big games, particularly the game with the Sigma Chis, when he hit two home runs. The other top players for the Delts were Hamp Whittington and Nick Dumich in the outfield. Both were outstanding in the field and steady at bat.

The Sig Eps won big games over the Pikas and Sigma Chis, before losing to the Phi Gamms. In the Pika victory, 6-2, Bob Dunham was the star, as he limited the Pikas to six hits. The Pikas did not score until the last inning. Gary Sigmon went three for three and Craig Garner played an excellent game at third base. Joey Saunders had an important triple in the SPE’s second inning rally. Against the Machis, the SPE’s scored two runs in the bottom of the seventh to win, 8-7. Shep Johnson and John Bruner drove in the tying and winning runs respectively, and Bruner was the winning pitcher. The Gamms surprised the SPE’s on Wednesday in extra innings, 12-11, as Barry McLean drove in two runs with a single to left with two out. The SPE's had scored two runs in the top of the seventh to tie the game.

The Pikas won two of three games this week to finish 8-4. Besides the SPE loss, the Pikas took a forfeit from the

Tracksters Wait For Next Year

By A. W. TURNER JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

Baltimore Colt fans, die-hard Boston Celtic foes, and Davidson track coaches all have one common thought now: “wait ‘til next year.” “I don't think it's being overly optimistic to say that we expect to be a stronger team next year,” said Wildcat track coach Heath Whittle. “We were fairly pleased with this year's team, even though our 4-4 record was only at the .500 level. We do expect a better record next season, though.” Two of the main reasons for such high hopes are returning lettermen Ray Swetenburg and Rick Lyon. Swetenburg was this year’s winner of the Fetzer Award, given annually to the team member who displays excellence in track. He won the award primarily on his accomplishment of establishing a new school record in the triple jump, jumping 46’8”. Lyon was the top point man this year, earning 88¼ tallies. He topped Swetenburg for the honor by 20 points.

In their last two season outings, the cindermen had one disappointment and one fine showing. In the state meet, the Wildcats failed to score. However, Davidson's performance in the Southern Conference meet was a different story. Their fifth-place finish, ahead of VMI and Richmond, was the best in four years. In the long jump, Rogers took fifth place. Ken Hill got third in the 440, and Swetenburg leaped to a second in the triple jump. Lyon raced to a third in the 100 and a fourth in the 220. Tommy Richardson placed fourth in the 100 and fifth in the 200. The only first-place finish for Davidson came in the 440 relay, where the team of Whit Morrow, Richardson, Lyon, and Hill took the conference crown. The Wildcats scored a team total of 23 points, well behind winner William and Mary.

Team losses due to graduation are light. Greg Cox, the team’s leading scorer until last year, is probably the biggest loss. Tony Orsbon, school record holder in the high jump, hurdler George Rogister, and javelin thrower Kerry Keith are the other seniors. Swetenburg is counted on to take over for Rogister in the high hurdles. “We also hope to develop someone in the pole vault,” commented assistant coach Sterling Martin. “Basketballer Doug Hill started working on the vault late this year. If his cage activities don't get in the way, we hope he will help us.” “John Puckett will be coming back after spending his junior year in Europe. He will help us in the distance runs, where we were weak this season.” Newman and Chris Sikes were out with injuries much of last year. Sikes, who was counted on to be a strong distance man, is transferring after this term.

The strength of this year's team lay in the sprints, as evidenced by the individual performances in the conference meet. All members of the winning 440 relay team will be back next year to defend their crown. The only winner in last year’s meet, Lyon, was bothered with a leg injury and finished fourth in the 220, the event he won in 1968.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
JOHN FINE

Assistant Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
MARK HODGES

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
BILL LINEAWEAVER

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
DON PARMAN
A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Asst. Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Advertising Manager:
JIM ROY

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Dan Graham, Joe Smith, Jim Phillips, Jule Young, Bill Sherwood, Norwood Poland, Steve Roady, Chris Bickley, and Ron Crockett. Tom Dasher, George Park

ALL-IMAC SOFTBALL

P Bob Dunham
C Ken Prestwich
1B Joe Lansinger
2B Mike Mikolayunas
3B Dave Fearnbach
SS Steve Hayes
OF Jerry Kroll
OF Nick Dumich
OF Herb Clegg
OF Terry Millar

South Hill Weekend Next?

The schedules are a bit difficult to figure out. Davidson's 1969 football schedule lists an Oct. 18 game with William and Mary to be played here. William and Mary, on the other hand, has an Oct. 18 game with Davidson, scheduled to be played in Williamsburg, Va. Somewhere along the line, there was a mix-up in communications, but there is no major problem, because the game can be scheduled now at a neutral site, such as South Hill, Va. Right? Wrong. Somewhere along the line, both schools scheduled the Oct. 18 game as their schools’ homecomings. Peace talks have begun, but just in case, plan your homecoming for South Hill.

NOTICE OF REFERENDUM

Notice is hereby givenof votes to be held on amendments to the Code of Responsibility, as listed in THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 2, 1969. Student balloting will be held in the lobby of Chambers from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Friday, May 30, 1969. The faculty will meet to vote in a special meeting.

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY
Watch Repairs
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The team posted a 13-14 mark. Pi Kapps, and they beat the KA’s 13-9, as Joe Lansinger hit two home runs. The Betas edged the Pi Kapps on Monday, 12-11. The Betas started the game with only one player, Jimmy Trussel, who pitched every ball over the backstop to keep the Pi Kapps from hitting the ball until more players arrived. Trussel drove in the winning run and Steve Engstrom was outstanding at bat and in the field. The Betas won despite John Baker's four errors. Also this week, the Gamms beat the Indies, 23-11, the SAE’s beat the Sigma Nus, 10-8, and the Independents won by forfeit over the SAE’s. The Gamms scored fifteen runs in the first two innings and coasted to an easy victory.

AND HOLD THEM HIGH
Football coach Jimmy Jordan demonstrates the proper way to defend a pass. The Wildcats will hold their spring football game next Saturday afternoon. (Staff Photos by Lyle)

Mary Baldwin Invades Wildcat Courts Today
The Davidson tennis team will be trying to avenge a losing season by taking it out on some hapless females this weekend. Actually, it isn’t as bad as that. The matchup will be with the Mary Baldwin tennis team and will consist of a series of exhibitions played this afternoon at 4:30 and tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Dr. Mary Jane Donnalley, the athletic director at Mary Baldwin, will bring one of the finest girls’ tennis teams in the country to face the Foglemen. The Mary Baldwin netters have won several national women’s collegiate titles in recent years and include several of the top-ranked female players in their ranks. Davidson tennis coach Harry Fogleman said that if the exhibitions are successful, they may become an annual event, with the scene switching from school to school on a regular basis.

Davidson's season was not that successful, however, as the team posted a 13-14 mark. The losing record was the first for Fogleman since his first campaign at the Wildcat helm in 1962. The team wrapped up the regular season last weekend at the Southern Conference tournament held in Charleston, South Carolina. The Wildcats stumbled home in fourth place after taking four straight Southern titles under Fogleman. Despite Fogleman's pessimistic predictions about the team’s chances in this year’s tournament, six Davidson singles and doubles advanced past the first round. Woody Faulk at first singles led the way into the second round where he was joined by Rusty Lawrence, Harlan Day, and Jeff Chetwood in singles and the doubles teams of Lawrence, Faulk and James Cantrell, Randy Jones. Faulk was the only ‘Cat to move into the finals where he lost to second-seeded Tee Hooper of the Citadel. Hooper won the singles crown two years ago but was dethroned last year by Davidson's George Berner, a Richardson Scholar. Fogleman was pleased by the improvement of the squad, particularly in the late season in doubles play. “The doubles came along very well toward the last part of the season. Early in the year we lost a couple of matches because of the doubles, but they did a fine job toward the end of the season.”

Brown, Brickels Push Recruiting
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

Neither rain nor snow nor professional basketball nor a painful hernia nor a hesitant selection committee has kept Larry Brown from doing his job. Brown, of course, is Davidson's new head basketball coach, and his primary job, “my most immediate concern,” is recruiting future basketball players for the Wildcats. “Of course it hasn't been easy,” Brown, who prefers to be called Larry, said. “By starting so late we were bound to be at a disadvantage in contacting and trying to persuade high school prospects.” Brown and his assistant, Bo Brickels, have made nothing short of amazing progress, however, in overcoming the many obstacles that they faced. The late departure of previous Wildcat coach Lefty Driesell, the slow process of naming Driesell’s successor, and Brown's commitments to the Oakland Oaks of the American Basketball Association all hindered the Davidson recruiting effort greatly. The late start has given Brown and Brickels many sleepless nights, and the problem hasn't been helped any by a hernia that Brown developed in the ABA championship game. “Sure, it has been hard on us, but we expected it. I think that it'll be worth all the extra work that we're doing now.” Already Brown has signed one outstanding prospect, Louisiana guard Ray Brown, and is in the running for several more blue-chippers. “Most of the truly outstanding boys over the country have signed already, but there are a few left that we feel that we have as good a chance as anybody for.” Despite the tremendous advancement made thus far, Brown feels that his work is far from finished. “The remaining prospects that haven't signed can still sign with Davidson. I figure that there are about 10 to 15 very good ball players that Davidson has a chance of signing, and I want to try and persuade each of them.” If conscientiousness and determination can conquer the greatest obstacles, then Wildcat basketball is far from a decline.

Discover the “quick-as-a-wink” economy to be experienced at the Vend-A-Wash
S. MAIN - DAVIDSON

Here it is! The do-it-yourself, do-it-right answer to cleaner car fans. And simple as sprinkling a pot plant. Sparkling pressurized water and detergent does the job, and you direct the whole operation with a magic wand. No splash or splatter! Controlled, concentrated spray lets you cut away that grease and grime in only minutes. And there’s a handy lint-free towel dispenser and a heavy-duty vacuum for those final touches. Fast, economical, thorough!

COIN-OPERATED - SELF SERVICE CAR WASH
25¢ Minutes For Only

REMOVAL SALE
Begins Thursday, May 15
We Have To Move
Everything In Store Reduced 20% or More
Rush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.