Page Four
October 31, 1969

Friday, October 31
12 noon Trustee luncheon
3 p.m. Soccer Morrison Room
Davidson vs. Pfeiffer

Saturday, November 1
2 p.m. Football Here
Davidson vs. VMI

Monday, November 3
8:15 p.m. Charlotte Opera Asso. Ovens Auditorium
“La Traviata”

Tuesday, November 4
3 p.m. Soccer Raleigh
Davidson vs. N.C. State
7:30 p.m. Free University Chambers
8:03 p.m. Movie Morrison Room
“Romeo and Juliet”

Wednesday, November 5
10 a.m. - Around the World Morrison Room in 80 Cups of Coffee
8:03 p.m. Movie Morrison Room
“Romeo and Juliet”

Thursday, November 6
10 a.m. Stammtisch Snack Bar

Friday, November 7
3 p.m. Soccer Atlanta
Davidson vs. Emory
India: Tradition and Change
Choral room Cunningham Fine Arts Center
Morrison Room Romeo and Juliet
Production Hodson Hall "Don't Drink the Water"

Saturday, November 8
2 p.m. Football Greenville, N.C.
Davidson vs. East Carolina
3:15 p.m. Drama Production Hodson Hall “Don't Drink the Water”

YMCA Services To Be Expanded

The YMCA will be able to expand its program slightly as a result of the fall drive, although the expansion
will not be as great as planned, according to Y vice-president Greg Scott. Scott said that contributions have topped $2600
and that a balance of $1156 remains from last year. He expects another $200 to be raised by a canvass
of students living off campus and of those faculty and students not reached in the initial drive. Even so, the
projected total will fall $1441 short of the $4100 budget distributed during the drive.

The activities of the YMCA are financed solely by money raised during the fund drive. No money is allotted from
the student activity fund. Scott attributes the success of this year’s campaign to the work of the 75 students who
canvassed students and faculty. “In the past we ran the campaign with fanfare. This year we ran it with a
minimum of advertising and emphasized personal contact,” he said. Scott said that faculty contributions were less than expected because of
a vigorous summer fund drive by the North Mecklenburg YMCA.

Johnstons, Martins See Europe, Dean And Wife Tour East Lands
By SCOTT DAVIDSON Staff Writer

Though not advertised as the most relaxing vacation spot, Israel proved to be a worthwhile stopping place for Dean of
Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. Accompanied by former Davidson College president and Mrs. D. Grier Martin, Johnston and his wife took
a leisurely vacation to Western Europe and the Middle East last August. Leaving August 20, the two couples toured England,
Scotland, France, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, and Liechtenstein. The Johnstons went on to visit embattled Lebanon, Israel, and Cyprus.
In the Middle East, Johnston said, “The intensity of feeling was very evident.”

Carolina Talkfests Give Debaters Experience
By BILL ESKRIDGE Staff Writer

“Our teams could have done better, but we did well considering that this was our first tournament of the year,”
said varsity debater Gray Mason. Davidson sent four debate teams to two tournaments—the North Carolina and Auburn tournaments—over the weekend
of October 17-19. Although the Davidson teams experienced difficulties, the tournaments yielded valuable experience. The teams representing Davidson at Auburn
consisted of Mason and Danny Clodfelter on one team, and Bill Endy and Steve Wright on the other. The varsity
team of Mason-Clodfelter carved out an impressive 4-2 record at Auburn. These debaters led all the first and second rounds
and ranked fourth in the third round, but two close decisions (by two tie votes) in the last two rounds
cost the team a berth in the semi-final round. Mason and Clodfelter defeated the University of Georgia, Florida State University,
Stetson University, and Montevallo College and lost to Stanford and West Florida.

Davidson also sent two teams to a tournament at the University of North Carolina. The teams were the novice team
of Mike Scott and Mark Denninger and the varsity team of Scott Keeter and Reggie Whitley. Facing some of the
best varsity teams of the tournament, Scott and Denninger compiled a 3-3 record. The team defeated Emory, Richmond, and Duke
but lost to West Virginia University, Florida, and Georgia. The last two teams—Florida and Georgia—reached the finals.

FALL TERM 1969-70
Monday a.m. Dec. 8
Second Period (9-9:50) classes
Monday p.m. Dec. 8
Sixth Period (3-3:50) classes
Tuesday a.m. Dec. 9
Third Period (11-11:50) classes
Tuesday p.m. Dec. 9
Seventh Period (4-4:50) classes
Wednesday a.m. Dec. 10
Fifth Period (2-2:50) classes
Wednesday p.m. Dec. 10
I-Section (10-10:50) classes
Thursday a.m. Dec. 11
Fourth Period (12-12:50) classes
Thursday p.m. Dec. 11
First Period (8-8:50) classes

Morning exams are given at 9, afternoon exams at 2, in the regular classroom for the class.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Coming Nov. 6
“Don't Drink the Water,” a hit Broadway comedy by Woody Allen, will be presented by the Davidson College Drama Department
in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Center Nov. 6-8. The curtain rises at 8:15 p.m. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,
with an afternoon showing Saturday at 2:15 p.m. Woody Allen's hilarious tale recounts the ill fortunes of three bungling American
tourists in Russia who run afoul of Soviet police by photographing a missile site. Their attempts to seek refuge in
the American embassy and then to escape Russia provide one laugh after another. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., chairman of Davidson's
Drama department, is directing the play, and student Joseph Gardner has designed the sets. The cast includes Davidson students Jack
Hartman, Cullum Rogers, William Green, Jack Scott, and David Bradley. Veteran performers from the town of Davidson—Miss Nancy Copeland and
Miss Van Leer Logan—take the leading female roles. Alumni and friends from Mooresville have been given an invitation to the
opening night, with a reception in their honor at intermission. On Friday and Saturday, the parents of freshmen visiting the
campus that weekend will be honored. The New York Times calls “Don't Drink the Water” “pleasantly outrageous.” The New York
Daily News says “Allen's imagination is daffy, his sense of the ridiculous iskeen and gags snap, crackle and pop.” -
Tickets may be purchased through the Drama Department at $1.50 for general admission, $1.00 for students. There was great evidence
of suspicion and fear. This was especially true in Lebanon, he said. In Israel, the Johnstons visited Tel Aviv, Haifa,
Jerusalem, Nazareth, Bethlehem, and the Galilean area. They planned their own tour and enjoyed doing much of their sightseeing on
foot. While in Tel Aviv, they lived in a Jewish hotel, and while in Jerusalem, an Arab hotel. This is
not particularly surprising since the Johnstons noticed many Arabs living and conducting their own enterprises in supposedly Jewish-controlled regions. In
fact, they discovered that many Arabs today have the right to vote, and more and more cases of Arabs’ conversions
to Christianity. At one point in their travels, Dean Johnston and Mrs. Johnston were within sight of the Syrian-Lebanon border.
There was much evidence of the 1967 and 1948 wars visible. The border incidents were occurring, but the Johnstons were
not aware of them from their location, despite the fact that there were many soldiers and guns present.

‘Birth’ Correct, Ku Society Told

“Birth of a Nation” was filmed in order to heal the enmity between North and South by putting Reconstruction in
historical context, Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson told the Eu Society last Thursday. Davidson, an expert in local and Southern history,
attributed altruistic motives to the film's producer D. W. Griffith. The film contains a glorification of the Ku Klux Klan,
Davidson said, but the Klan at the time of Reconstruction has little in common with the Klan of today. According
to Davidson, “Birth of a Nation” shows no racial bias and portrays the good and bad of both races. Known
for its sophisticated cinematic technique, the film is based on the book “The Klansman” by Thomas Dixon. The book lacks
the objectivity of the movie, Davidson said.

The Eumanian Society was revitalized earlier this month under the direction of senior Pat Mullen for the stated purpose of
furthering intellectual and artistic awareness on campus. Eu is sponsoring a poetry reading following the concert Saturday night at 10:15
in Eu Hall. The session is open to all members of the college community. “It is part of the Society's
effort to further poetic expression on campus,” Eu president Mullen said. “Poetry is as essential to the soul as vitamins
are to the body.” According to Mullen, membership in Eu is open to all members of the college community. “Each
member will be responsible for at least one program," he said. Mullen said that most of the programs would probably
draw local talent. “We will try to keep within the campus and only go outside if a member can arrange
it.” There are no dues to provide the funds for paying visiting speakers.

An international poetry reading is planned for November 10. Contrary to a commonly-held belief, Dow Chemical is not using the
Davidson railroad siding to store napalm for ROTC defoliation training. Actually, the Dow Chemical cars, left on the Davidson railroad
siding two weeks ago, contain chemicals used in the manufacture of polyurethane foam plastics, according to Don Hubble, administrative assistant
to the president of Reeves Brothers Manufacturing Company, Curon Division. The Cornelius firm, specializing in textiles and plastics, leases the
siding for the storage of needed chemicals. The lease runs for a long term, according to Henry Lewis, freight agent
for the City of Davidson, and other Dow cars can be expected to be seen throughout the school year. (Staff
Photo by Lyle)

Classic ‘Birth Of A Nation’ Masterfully

A REVIEW By DAN GRAHAM

of phenomenal proportions. And yet its power and vibrancy enthralls the audience of 1969. The Davidson Groundling Society came fully
armed with its sarcasm and esprit de corps, prepared to deal harshly with D. W. Griffith if his art was
found wanting. The responses were copious, and there seemed more than enough material for a rhetorical rout, but it soon
became evident that Griffith was carrying the day. As the laughter at Austin Stoneman in the previous scene died out,
a hushed silence fell over Love Auditorium while the scene at Ford's Theatre flickered to its irresistible conclusion. And then
the movie began. If the long exposition and the somewhat inane beginning had been less than satisfactory, if some of
the effect of the sweep and movement of the battle scenes had been lost in the uncertain groping of the
plot, there was no doubt. Griffith had won his audience now. Griffith wasted no time drawing up the sides: Stoneman,
Silas Lynch, and the Negro rabble opposing the Cameron family and the white populace. And the director who had been
somewhat uncertain in blues and greys became devastating in black and white. The essential elements of melodrama—conflict of the forces
of good and evil and the idealization of the implied audience's moral values—were here, as they often are in the
hyper-emotional epic (recall certain portions of “Gone with the Wind” and Wyler’s “Ben Hur”), and Griffith combined them flawlessly with
his sense of suspense and action to create a story which gathers force in a landslide development.

“Birth of a Nation” launched into its amazing career in 1915 by coming under immediate attack by Negroes and white
liberals. The vehemence of the attacks passed with time, to be replaced by disdain for Griffith the melodramatist. Now his
film must face a generation gap—or gulf—of phenomenal proportions. And yet its power and vibrancy enthralls the audience of 1969.
Griffith’s technical innovations and applications are myriad, but perhaps a more abstract contribution is closer to the essence of Griffith:
he is the great developer of the Grand Style. The style emerges from Griffith's camera angles, mob scenes, plot construction,
and even sub-titles. It is this style which conveys the sense of the force of goodness and the power of
America and the vanity of war. The screen becomes a cosmic battleground with Griffith's touch. He left this style as
a legacy to those who would likewise find film a suitable medium for major social themes. Through this Grand Style,
Griffith gave us a vision of the Age of Innocence in the strength of its self-assurance. Though there may be
many shortcomings in Griffith the thinker, Griffith the artist brought us a vision of grandeur and even humanity which has
endured the “rude wasting of old time.”

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

The Underground
4721 N. Tryon St.
Entertainment Friday and Saturday
FREE JAM SESSION SUNDAY 4-7 p.m.
No Cover During Week
Open 11 a.m. ‘til ?

START YOUR ART COLLECTION
ORIGINAL PRINTS and LITHOGRAPHS
Selected In Paris By Rob Williams
JUST A DOZEN SO COME EARLY
(All Prints Ready To Hang)
THE STUDENT STORE
Davidson
