Page Four May 2, 1969

Up ‘n Coming

Friday, May 2
All Week
Pol van Geel, caricaturist On Campus

3 p.m.
The Monarchs, Between Fraternity Houses

8 p.m.
Concert: Poco and Ars Nova Love Aud.

11 p.m.
Hungry I: Morrison Rm. Erica, Eros, and Young

Saturday, May 3
1 a.m.
Movie Outside “Under the Yum Yum Tree”

3 p.m.
Ski Show Lake Campus

5:45 p.m.
Bar-B-Q Lake Campus

8 p.m.
Concert: Gordon Lightfoot Love Aud.

11:30 p.m.
Hungry I: Outside Erica, Eros, and Young

Sunday, May 4
12:30 a.m.
Movie: Outside “Under the Yum Yum Tree”

3 a.m.
Breakfast Union Cafeteria

Monday, May 5
The Blue Angel

Tuesday, May 6
1 p.m.
Open End: Charlotte City Manager Bill Veeder

6 p.m.
Appreciation Dinner for Col. Outlaw

7:30 p.m.
Free University Union Lobby

Wednesday, May 7
1 p.m.
Lunch Table Talk: Union Cafeteria Prof. Kincaid on “The Stock Market”

8 p.m.
Movie: Morrison Rm. “A Countess From Japan”

Thursday, May 8
10 a.m.
Open Meeting: Union Lobby Commission On Coeducation

1 p.m.
Lunch Table Talk: Union Cafeteria Dr. Brown Patterson “What Constitutes An Ideal College”

7 p.m.
20th Century Africa Perkins Aud.

7 p.m.
ROTC Forum with the Trustee Education Committee Morrison Rm.

8:15 p.m.
Drama Dept. Production: Hodson Hall “Oh What A Lovely War”

9 p.m.
Trustee Reception

10 p.m.
Movie: Morrison Rm. “A Countess From Japan”

Military Justice Unfair, Tells Faculty Morgan
By PAUL ROWLAND Associate Editor

American Civil Liberties lawyer Charles Morgan criticized college faculties and administrations in an address at the Davidson Chapter of the
American Association of University Professors spring banquet last Friday. He heads the ACLU's Southern Regional office and Operation Southern Justice,
which is aimed at discrimination against women and Negroes in jury selection. Morgan, a 38-year-old Atlanta lawyer, is known for
his defense of such notables as Cassius Clay and Dr. Howard Levy.

College administrations should be “in charge of such things as raising money, taking care of buildings, and sweeping the floors,”
said Morgan. The typical administration has “grown completely out of its original function,” he said.

“How can an institution like Davidson justify a ROTC program, voluntary or not?” Morgan asked his surprised audience. Morgan emphasized
that he...

College Restricts Activities Grants

The Activities Grant Foundation will cut back on its expenditures where possible upon request from the college, but still has
$500 left in its budget for this year, said Foundation Chairman Jim May. Established last year by the Union Board,
the foundation makes grants to various students for special projects. It helped start the Free University and has contributed to
the radio station. Within the past two months, five groups have received foundation grants, among them the rugby team and
a kinetic sculpture display. The year's budget was $2,500 and comes out of the funds of the College Union.

May said closer supervision of funds will be exercised in the future so that the foundation's board may be more
familiar with how the money is used. “The Activities Grant Foundation is the one place at Davidson where a person
can turn for money to finance a worthy project. If the foundation can't grant the request, we can often direct
the person to other sources,” said May.

Lowenstein: Reason Must Cure Society
By BILL LINEAWEAVER Asst. Managing Editor

He speaks without notes, quoting liberally from a wide selection of sources: Robert McNamara, Martin Luther King, Robert Kennedy, Robert
Kennedy quoting Aeschylus. He speaks softly, almost gently, and his hands are as important in his talking as his voice,
or at least they seem to be used as much. His speeches are low-key and filled with satire and literacy.
They sound political largely because of the speaker's profession. In someone else’s mouth, they could pass for a good introductory
lecture on the problems of American society.

He is against the war, the draft, student (and other) violence, the ABM system, and swollen defense spending. He is
for increased domestic programs in almost every possible area. Also, he is the man many people credit with starting the
movement that culminated in the resignation of Lyndon Johnson. This politician is Allard L. Lowenstein, United States Congressman from the
Fifth District of Long Island. He spoke Monday night at N.C. State in Raleigh and at Chapel Hill.

In Raleigh, a mixed crowd of students and faculty in coats and ties listened to Lowenstein over banquet tables. Lowenstein
spoke on the war, the ABM, and a host of other matters. His style was an improbable mixture of Adlai
Stevenson and Mort Sahl, and the audience reacted in kind; most were very interested, several angered, many amused, some disappointed,
and some moved. They were interested because of his intensity. He seemed to believe what he was saying. Words like
“commitment” were used in a way that transcended cliché.

The crowd laughed at his burlesque of official reasoning. “We have to keep bases for obsolete airplanes operative in Spain,
according to the Pentagon, because Franco, whom we all know as a faithful ally and a defender of freedom, must
be defended against any threat, like insurrection in the Spanish colonies in Africa.

“There are Spanish colonies in Africa, two of them, Spanish Sahara and Ifni. The Pentagon must have visions of thousands
of natives swimming the Mediterranean with their camels to topple Franco in another evil People's Revolution.

“The only thing I can say to it is that that story must have been devised to make the arguments
in favor of the ABM system sound comparatively plausible.”

Lowenstein spoke of a “fundamental sickness of American society” that provokes legislators to put “useless missiles” in a higher priority
than school lunches or poverty programs. There were frowns. One elderly professor turned sideways at the words, “We are reaping
the fruits of racism.” Several of the students were disappointed. They came to hear some sort of litany of revolt.
“We have to work from within the system to change it,” said Lowenstein. He quoted from the Constitution and the
Declaration of Independence. “Violence is totally unacceptable,” he said.

Humor was replaced by an anxious note as he ended. “We were defeated in Chicago, but the big men lost
the war. What can Daley and Johnson do now, anywhere?”

“God has blessed this nation with the greatest potential in history. Those who turn to violence or apathy don't realize
that we have just begun to make the system respond.”

After he had repeated his speech to students at a Chapel Hill lecture hall, he went to a room in
the Union and talked with about 30 students, answering questions and sharing a communal milkshake. “People with brains have doubts
and somehow have trouble acting,” he said. “The kooks don't have the brains to doubt, so they act, ripping up
cities and campuses. The vast middle group has to be awakened to use their brains and act as best they
can to get the initiative back from the kooks.

“If the present system collapses, there won't be any demands met, there won't be anything helped. This society must be
made viable; there aren't any feasible alternatives.”not question the need for a standing army, but he said, “Let the military
finance its own education program.” Condemning the use of ‘a double standard, one for whites and one for blacks," Morgan
said, “nothing good has ever come from a distinction based on race.” “Something is wrong with a school which has
only four black students," Morgan said. In the question and answer period following his address, Morgan was asked about the
Levy case. Declining direct comment on the case since its appeal is still in court, Morgan did comment on military
justice. “It's impossible to have justice in a military court,” he said. Detailing court-martial procedure, Morgan said the court was
composed of people “working for the general” and added that despite conscientious efforts, such a court could not be completely
fair. Having lost early rounds in the Levy court battle, Morgan said he is “now testing the constitutionality of the
charges.” The next steps could lead to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals and then possibly to the Supreme Court.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

GWYNN RECEIVES BELL AWARD
Garrett gives senior his second award.

Sadler Quiet On Policy, Awaits Election Results

Thomas S. Sadler, the next Mayor of Davidson, intends to hold an organizational meeting of the new Town Council during
the week after the May 6 election, before announcing any plans. Sadler, who is the only candidate running for the
town's executive office, said of his program, “I don't think we have anything we would like to go out on
a limb for now.” Nine candidates have filed for the five council seats to be filled in the election. Four
of those running are incumbents. Sadler plans to hold all council meetings open to the general public. “I believe it
would be unthinkable not to have all meetings completely open,” he stated firmly. In the interest of better communication between
town officials and the people, Sadler enthusiastically invited representatives of the press to attend council functions. Sadler, now an incumbent
councilman, did not give concrete information about his ideas on such issues as street paving and housing code enforcement yet.
He took a cool stance toward the proposed city-county consolidation, however. “Someone would have to show me how this thing
would work before I can support it. Right now I can’t see why we in Davidson can't do for ourselves
what others want to do for us,” Sadler said. Sadler was optimistic about the new town council he will be
working with. “Of course the incumbents have an advantage,” he said, “but any five of the nine candidates would make
a good council.”

(Staff Photo by Weems)

EAGER STUDENT GIVES OF HIMSELF

The American Red Cross held a blood drive Monday and Thursday in the handball court of Johnston Gymnasium. ROTC students
who gave blood received 15 or 20 merits, depending on whether or not they went to Tuesday drill, but faculty
and administration members and residents of the town were also encouraged to contribute.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

‘We Won’t Go’ Declare 250 Student Editors, Presidents

By College Press Service

More than 250 student body presidents and campus newspaper editors have signed a statement opposing the Vietnam war and saying
they will refuse induction into the armed forces as long as the war continued. The statement, released by the National
Student Association, has been sent to President Nixon, along with a request for an appointment “to share more fully” with
him the students’ concern over the war and the draft. The signers say, “We will act according to our conscience.
Along with thousands of our fellow students, we campus leaders cannot participate in a war which we believe to be
immoral and unjust. . . . We publicly and collectively express our intention to refuse induction and to aid and
support those who decide to refuse. We will not serve in the military as long as the war in Vietnam
continues.” The signers come from Ivy League, Big Ten, denominational, teacher and community colleges. “Mr. President,” the letter signed by
nine of the students said, “We urgently write to you now... to advise you that many of the basic questions
students and other concerned Americans have raised about our purposes in Vietnam remain unanswered. . . We must now number
ourselves among those students who cannot at this time square military duty with integrity and conscience.” The overall statement also
said: “Most of us have worked in electoral politics and through other channels to change the course of America’s foreign
policy and to remove the inequities of the draft system. We will continue to work in these ways, but the
possible results of these efforts will come too late for those whose deferments will soon expire. We must make an
agonizing choice: to accept induction into the armed forces, which we feel would be irresponsible to ourselves, our country, and
our fellow man; or to refuse induction, which is contrary to our respect for law and involves injury to our
personal lives and careers.”

(Staff Photo by Weems)
