Page Six January 24, 1969

She Bavidsonian

Phi Beta Kappa Taps Eight Seniors

Eight seniors have been tapped by Phi Beta Kappa for membership in the most prestigious of honorary academic fraternities. The fraternity requires at least a 3.15 average. Charlie Baker of Greensboro is a Dean's List student and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. Baker is a pre-med student.

BAKER

HUNGRY HEADLINERS

Dick Chandler of Glen Ellyn is a member of Sigma Chi fraternity and is on the Dean's List. Chandler is a mathematics major.

Wayne Huckel is a member of the Honor Court, a member of ODK leadership fraternity, and was nominated by Davidson for a Rhodes Scholarship. He is a McConnell Scholar. Huckel is a member of Phi Beta Theta.

Rhodes Scholar Randy Phillips of Winston-Salem is president of Sigma Phi Epsilon and captain of the varsity track team. He is one of the student representatives to the Faculty Student Life Committee and became Davidson's fifth Rhodes Scholar last month.

Natcher Trace, two guitars, a bass, and drums that feature country rock and "candy rock," will appear next Monday through Saturday at the Hungry I in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Performances begin nightly at 7:30, and admission will be 93 cents for men and 49 cents for girls, according to Charlie Paye, director.

Talk Of ‘Going Local’ Increases; Benefits Of National Questioned

By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

Forming local fraternities has been whispered about for some time. Proponents of "going local" are becoming more articulate and outspoken. Several fraternity men, polling local, voiced their objections to the system of national fraternities as it now exists here. For others, going local may merely be one step in a more sweeping social reform.

President of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Randy Phillips said, "I think there is only a small minority who can enthusiastically defend the system as it really is." Al Vases, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, cited two major defects he sees in the present system: the selection-rejection procedure and what he termed a "perpetuating attitude" of "anti-intellectual" sentiment that he feels is perpetuated by the fraternity system.

Jim Cooley, a member of Alpha Tau Omega, cited another problem in the present system. He pointed out that this year the ATO's will send about $400 in pledge and initiation fees to their national office. Yet he said this money brought relatively little benefit to the local chapter.

The solutions to these problems are varied in number and support. Dave Clemmons, president of Sigma Chi, said the problem of membership can be solved without major changes in the system. Clemmons said he favors a program of complete affiliation through a year-long extended rush program. Clemmons pointed out that the national fraternities often do not seem to be completely aware of the unique fraternity situation at Davidson.

Joe Kenrick, a member of Beta Theta Pi, said national chapters of fraternities sometimes tended to "institutionalize the differences between social life and academics." This idea has received some discussion around the court. Clemmons said the discussion was mainly present in his house. Cooley said that a committee had been formed among the ATO's to study such an option and that a decision to remain national or go local would be reached by April.

Clemmons said that a local movement could probably only come if several fraternities acted together. Even in the face of such action, Clemmons stated that he believed some fraternities still would reject the idea. Bud Cousar, president of Beta Theta Pi, said that sentiment for going local was not widespread among the Betas. He said that their national organization does not restrict the chapter to the point that it would want to go local. But he did say that six members went inactive before or during rush.

All of the people interviewed said that the reform sentiment was most widespread among the upperclassmen. Sentiment for even greater change can be found. Vases said that while going local would be...

Church And College (Continued From Page 4)

...faculty, in regard to the trustees' religious stipulations for faculty employment, "I do not always discuss this with everybody — I don't make a great point of this," Johnston said at his interview with prospective faculty members. Of Davidson's relationship to the church in general, Johnston said, "I've never really found anybody who says he objects to the college being related to the church."

Asked if the tenure requirements had been a hindrance to Davidson's securing qualified members, Johnston said, "I could not say that it's been detrimental to the overall quality of the faculty," but "in the last 16 years, there have been people we might have wanted if the religious stipulations for faculty were different."

In contrast to Johnston's criticisms, Dr. Max Polley, professor of Bible and religion, spoke favorably of the Davidson-church relationship, although he did criticize some of the particulars of that relationship. "Being a church-related college involves trying to create an institution both of faith and of learning," Polley said. The value of this relationship is that an attempt is made "to see that the Christian faith is getting a hearing in the free market of ideas," he continued. "How to accomplish this is where it gets complicated," he said.

Polley said that this combination of faith and learning might be brought about in several ways. But "the way this is done depends on the personnel in the college," Polley said. However, he added that he did not "believe that every faculty member must be a Christian." In a learning situation, Polley said that it is "essential and highly desirable" that students be confronted with viewpoints other than a Christian viewpoint.

Dr. Frank Bliss, professor of English, noted another disadvantage. This disadvantage is that a church-related college often does not attract nor recruit students from a wide variety of backgrounds. "To know who you are, you have to be confronted with people who are different," Bliss said.

Dr. B. Bruce Jackson Jr., professor of mathematics, cited several strengths of a church-related college like Davidson...

Martin of Winston-Salem is a history major, a Dean's List student, and a member of Phi Kappa Phi. John Roe, defense advisor for the Honor Court and Regulations Court, is vice president of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity and was recently initiated into Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. Roe is from Clarksville, Tenn.

Bill Thomson, treasurer of Phi Delta Theta, holds a position on the Student Court of Appeals. Thomson is from Miami, Fla., is a member of ODK, and is business manager of the Miscellany.

Bayard Miller of Gainesville, Fla. is vice president of Phi Delta Theta, a member of ODK, one of three students on the Campus Committee on Social Patterns, a letterman in soccer, and a Dean's Scholar. The students are to be initiated May 9. The only other current student member is senior Mike Payne, who was tapped last year.

MILLER

Behind Hobbie’s Victory: Independents, 3 Houses

By DICK ANDERSON
Assoc. Managing Editor

The Independents and three fraternities produced the overwhelming majority for SGA President-elect Peter Hobbie in Tuesday's election, which saw Hobbie pull 53 percent of the vote against two opponents. On the basis of a DAVIDSONIAN questionnaire which was distributed at the Chambers polling place, Hobbie apparently received about 90 percent of the Independent vote, 87 percent of the Alpha Tau Omegas polled, 83 percent from Sigma Phi Epsilon, and 82 percent from Pi Kappa Alpha. Answering the poll were 343 students, or about 45 percent of those voting.4 step WO re form. It would be only a step. “Fraternities as such, local or national, must be examined.” Hobbie was at 84 percent. Count Prout Bioma Nu, but only 13 Nus handed in yes votes. Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon were the only groups which did not give Hobbie a majority of their votes. KA candidate Dan Herd's fraternity gave him 82 percent, but questionnaires marked KA formed only 4 percent of the DAVIDSONIAN poll. Hobbie got majorities in all classes, with the freshmen (who eat with him in the College Union Cafeteria) voting 71 percent for him, the sophomores 63 percent, the juniors 77 percent, and the seniors 56 percent. Phil Hazel was strongest among sophomores and seniors with 30 and 28 percent respectively, while Herd's top percentage was 20 percent among the freshmen. Hazel, who is married and lives off campus, received only one-eleventh of the freshmen's votes. Herd ran relatively poorly in his own class, pulling 18 percent, while Hazel, who first matriculated at Davidson with the Class of '65, got only 8 percent of the juniors. Hazel’s best results among the fraternities came in Kappa Sigma, SAE, and Pi Kappa Phi, each of which gave him about 33 percent of their votes. Hazel received votes on only two of the questionnaires marked Independent out of the 37 turned in, and he got only 13 of 97 forms on which no fraternity status was marked. Hobbie received about 60 percent of the latter’s votes. The fraternity with the most voters apparently was SPE.

Up ‘n’ Coming
Friday, January 24
7:15 p.m. & 10 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room "A Man For All Seasons"
8 p.m. Endo Floyd
Saturday, January 25
6:30 p.m. Basketball: Chamberlain Dining Hall, Johnston Gym Davidson vs. Citadel
8 p.m. Concert: Jerry Butler
Monday, January 27
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Love Auditorium Morrison Room "Natchez Trace"
Tuesday, January 28
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium Prof. Robert Lennox
4 p.m. Basketball: Washington, D.C. Davidson vs. George Washington
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room "Natchez Trace"
Wednesday, January 29
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room "Natchez Trace"
9 p.m. Civil Liberties Discussion Chambers 124
Thursday, January 30
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium Dr. Paul A. Miller, Professor of Education, UNC-C
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: "Natchez Trace"
Friday, January 31
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room "Natchez Trace"

Penalties Sought By New Court
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

The newly organized Regulations Court has just completed the task of formulating trial procedures and is working on a system of punishments. Court procedures will be essentially the same as the Honor Court, according to Court Recorder Stagg Newman. Newman said the differences are minor and added that the Regulations Court would function with the same Investigating Committee and Defense Adviser as the Honor Court. Newman said 10 colleges (including Vanderbilt, Duke, the University of South, and the University of Virginia) have been contacted by the court to gather ideas for a system of punishments.

Coeducation (Continued From Page 4)
ing it as such (16) or with certain modifications (11). Twelve would, however, reject it. A hundred and seventy-five students were familiar with the Five Year Plan and 199 weren't. Over 80 percent, however, favor implementing it as such (158) or with modifications (61). Fifty would reject it. The older a student gets, the more he favors the admission of female students—at least according to the poll. While 64 percent of the freshmen who voted favor admitting girls, 86 percent of the seniors favor it. Seventy-seven percent of the sophomores and 80 percent of the juniors also favor it. Concerning the adjustment of enrollment admitting female students would probably necessitate, student and faculty opinion appears divided. While most students—79 (47 percent)—would enlarge the enrollment by over 1,000, most faculty members—14 (48 percent)—would increase it by between 500 and 1,000 students. Seventy-two students (37 percent) agreed with the faculty majority, while 25 would hold it under 800 and 18 would keep the present size. Seven faculty members would also keep it under 500, two would increase it over 1,000, and one would keep the present figure.

"The same as the Honor Court," according to Court Recorder Stagg Newman. Newman said the differences are minor and added that the Regulations Court would function with the same Investigating Committee and Defense Adviser as the Honor Court. Newman said 10 colleges (including Vanderbilt, Duke, the University of South, and the University of Virginia) have been contacted by the court to gather ideas for a system of punishments.

Elections (Continued From Page 1)
Stelzer, Dave Stimson, and Jim Wright. Candidates for YMCA secretary are Lee Fowlkes, John Kenyon, and Steve Salwer, and for YMCA treasurer, Gene Guill, Charlie Heiner, Billy Stagg, Raymond Sweetenburg, Rick Van de Water, and Gene Williams. The defense adviser election will be a repeat of last Tuesday's election between John Bryant and Tom Wheatley. The election was nullified because the names were on the junior ballot only, instead of the ballot for all classes.

KITCHEN HELP WANTED
$2.25 per hr.
Apply HEREFORD BARN RESTAURANT
4320 Interstate 85 N. 596-6354

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Closed Sunday
TAPROOM
Whar-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub
TRY OUR BUCKET SPECIAL
$4.85 plus tax
Food for 5 to 7
COLONEL SANDERS' RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, N.C.

Emotional Chaos Makes Engrossing Film Drama
A Review By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

“The Subject Was Roses” is a deep, delicate, and beautiful movie about the dissolution of a family and the emotional chaos of three dismembered persons, each one of them very much a part of the other two. The dissolution of the family does not occur during the movie. It has occurred long before, and the old fissures are only reopened by the return of the son, Timmy Cleary (Martin Sheen) from World War II. Timmy has grown up during his absence, while his parents have moved more and more toward a state of emotional infancy. They are like children, doting on his approval and attention and having tantrums when he favors the other parent. It is fascinating to watch Timmy vacillate between his parents, alternately lavishing sympathy and scorn on each of them. They treat him the same way, forming a vicious circle that steadily squeezes itself smaller and smaller. Patricia Neal gives a beautiful performance as Mrs. Cleary, a weak and insecure woman who spends all her human resources on her mother, crippled brother, and son. Jack Albertson is the father, a tight-lipped old man who takes out the frustrations of years of failure and rejection in a constant anger of drinking and swearing. The lives of the parents are so isolated that they appear hopeless. But the story of the movie is the attempt of the son to escape the entrapment of his childhood and family.

Davidson: “Society needs some colleges of high academic standing—needs them as long as the church has any dominance as it does at the present time.” Jackson said, But “I expect it to be harder to be a church-related college of high quality than it is to be simply a church-related college or a strictly secular institution.” Being a church-related college of high standards involves the maintenance of a delicate balance, Jackson added. Some colleges have given up sound academic standards in order to remain church schools, and others have divorced themselves from the sponsoring churches, Jackson said. “I'm not sure we can do it, but then again, maybe we can.” Jackson said.

WESTERN AUTO
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAMS
Phone 42-144

300 E. Morehead
Charlotte

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated

Frank D. Gilroy's movie is fast-moving and engrossing, employing original cinematic technique in extremely swift transitions from pathos to humor. The poignancy and humor are reminiscent of "A Thousand Clowns,” and while this movie does not have the direct social comment of "Clowns,” it compares very favorably. A trip to the theater in the last couple of years has usually meant a plunge into hackneyed banality, but not this time. This is one of the best films to come along in a long time.

"You wreck’em — We fix’em"
MOORESVILLE Body Shop
131 East Moore Ave.
Mooresville, N.C.
We recognize Davidson Students & Faculty
Telephone 664-3345

2:30 - 11:45
Behind Conies Soda Shop

Cashion Gulf Service
Complete Auto Service
Phone 892-9306
Open 6:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.