Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1969

A Preface

For the sake of clarification and perhaps for the interest of the newcomers to THE DAVIDSONIAN readership, it seems worthwhile
to re-state a few basic foundations on which this editorship bases its policy. This summer's resignation of half of the
editorial “we” has left a gap, and it will produce a few changes in procedure and attitude which such departures
necessitate. But it will not alter the growth which THE DAVIDSONIAN has begun in recent years. A realization of its
own irrelevance has led the paper in recent years to reconsider some of its approaches to college news. It has
led to overview, to analysis and to comment, all in addition to the factual reporting which has long characterized the
paper. A serious sense of influence and responsibility has led to a new check on authenticity and accuracy in news
reporting. Critical comments and casual conversations have led to an evaluation of the role of commentary. In these and other
areas, THE DAVIDSONIAN is changing to meet the needs of a changing college. We maintain a right to dissent and
to criticize, but we offer our criticism only as opinion and regard it as such. We make no pretense to
authority. We solicit the support of all Davidson students and faculty as we attempt together to make Davidson the school
it would like to be. Like the college, we know we cannot afford to remain static for an instant, and
for that reason, we seek your criticism, your letters, and your talent. We don’t like the image of a worn-out
newspaper, one which serves neither the school nor its students, any more than anyone else. We are now mustering up
our energies, new approaches, and new ideas to become an accurate and responsible news voice for Davidson College. This is
not a new idea of a new editorship. It is the reaffirmation of the “willingness to contemplate what is happening”
which we have advocated for so long.

A New Look For The Board

Although it is unlikely that he will win the race he’s running, Tom Earnhardt has made a significant step toward
the placement of a recent student on the Board of Trustees. Only alumni were aware of the advance, because it
came in the form of a ballot for the voting in the alumni trustee election, but it is worthy of
all students’ notice. If elected, Earnhardt will be the youngest trustee on the board. But more than that, his election
would place in office a voice which has long served the interest of the Davidson students. He is a person
of ideas, and his interest in Davidson did not cease when he graduated in 1968. As Student Body President, he
paved the way for significant advances in voicing student feeling. Many alumni will regard his age in a negative perspective,
and such a perspective does injury both to Earnhardt and the college. A hard worker with a wealthy resource of
ideas and imagination, he would serve Davidson well.

New Dorms, New Habits

On return from a summer's vacation, most students find themselves hung with the “How was your summer?” mode of conversation
when they greet classmates or fraternity brothers. It usually grows old after the first hour. This year, for the first
time since 1906, the students found the dormitories a fitting substitute for that initial conversation; at least, for the first
time the tone was one of amazement rather than depression. The college is to be commended for these welcome changes,
and along with those congratulations go similar greetings to the Residence Hall Council, which spent most of last year lobbying
for such changes. When the Board of Trustees approved some $200,000 for dormitory and church renovation last spring, few people
envisioned the broad changes which the aged structures were to undergo. The new atmosphere of Davidson brings the residence halls
at long last into the present era, and ensures at least a slight decrease in the depression which tends to
grip the freshman at Davidson each fall. Along with the fond remembrances of the old Watts and the awe of
the new Watts Hilton, however, comes the necessity of an admonition. Lest we judge ourselves more mature than in previous
years, we should stop to remember the water fights and the senseless destruction of campus property which occurred during past
years in the dorms. Such acts cannot be tolerated this year. The appreciation which has been often expressed by upperclassmen
and freshmen this fall should not consist merely of words. The observance of restraint in the dorms should not only
apply to freshmen, but also to upperclassmen, some of whom have been weaned on water raids and shaving cream fights.
We always said Watts had the best rooms.

A False Start

For several years students have been yelling for an alteration in the school’s orientation process, saying that too much of
the information and procedure was duplicated and that the process was too drawn out. Now, after one week of concentrated
orientation, some feel that the old way was better, or at least that some changes must again be made. It
seems that the largest problem was once again the Freshman Camp. It wasn’t that it was too long or boring,
and it wasn’t that facts were duplicated there, as the charge has been in past years. Through no fault of
a very capable camp staff, the camp has simply lost its place in the Davidson orientation. This year the travel
to Camp Thunderbird was a burden rather than a pleasure. Most of the activities could have been carried out at
Davidson with no loss of perspective. The point was especially made with the attempt to register the freshmen at the
camp. Professors expressed displeasure with the pressure and poor conditions under which freshmen were placed as they tried to figure
out their class schedules. The fact which no one is willing to admit is that in a hurried-up orientation, Freshman
Camp has no place. The whole spirit of relaxation and the ability to meet one’s contemporaries is cut off by
trying to cram everything into two nights and one day. The whole purpose of the old freshman camp is lost
in the new process. And it was too cold, too.

A Coach At Last

The complexities of the Larry Brown resignation are puzzling and still unclarified; but out of the storm that blew in
Davidson in July came the assurance that Davidson would still have a top-notch coach. No matter what happened to Larry
Brown, Davidson basketball will not suffer long, for into his place and into the big shoes of Brown’s predecessor walked
a man who can fill the job (if not the shoes). Terry Holland knows all of the ins and outs
of Davidson basketball; he knows the complexities that accompany the efforts to recruit around Davidson’s strict academic structure; and he
has the respect and the friendship of everyone with whom he works. While everyone in the South is questioning Holland's
future and wondering about the fate of Wildcat basketball, we feel confident that he is the best man for the
job. We felt that way before the storm in July, and Holland himself has confirmed our confidence.

“Anything Much Happen While We Were Gone?”

‘Monterey Pop’ ..The New Oldies-But-Goodies On Film

A REVIEW
College Press Service

The people came and listened
Some of them came and played
Others gave
Yes they did
Down in Monterey...
—The Animals

The Monterey Pop Festival was a high point in the ongoing history of hard rock that, considering the Miami Doors
indecency and the Palm Springs riot, may never be achieved again. Monterey was a sort of Newport West, with beautiful
people grooving on the grass to what they knew was an important happening, a cultural revolution, the beginning of a
new era. D. A. Pennebaker’s masterful, hand-held camera technique captured that experience to renew the memory for those who were
there and to make those who weren't wish they had been. The film is currently making the circuit of campus
and big-city avant-garde film houses bringing out the freaks and straights alike. As the theatre lights dim, Monterey Pop explodes
on the screen with Janis Joplin doing ‘Combination of the Two,’ a musical background for the titles spread over a
collage of colors and scenes. The intro fades out to shots of preparations for the festival, a chronicle of what
made it happen. A cool chick, waiting for the show, says, “We heard a lot... all together... it’s just gonna
be too much... the vibrations... you know.” She was right, and you know. Here is Mama Cass, the fat Mama
Cass is no more, looking like an overweight Tiny Tim in drag; whatta nose. The set was shot at night;
the colors are outasight. California Dreamin’... “Once you enter, you cannot leave,” drones the ticket taker. Who would want to?
Canned Heat, then Simon and Garfunkel bathed in red light feeling “life is lovely, groovy... all is groovy.” Light pours
from the stage during Hugh Masakela’s instrumentals. Gracie Slick and the Jefferson Airplane and then Janis again. This isVintage Janis,
with the old group. Already an oldie-but-goodie; she’s got a mama Janis. The camera zooms in close, her face quivers.
Cut to her feet, stomping against the stage... “like a ball and chain.” The audience—around you in the theatre—joins the
crowd on film in applause. The late Otis Redding, one of the film’s high points... “Everybody got to shake”... “I’ve
Been Lovin’ You.” Show effects screen.

Nixon Promises To Reform Draft
A NEWS ANALYSIS

Now that students are once more filling the halls of American colleges and universities, the Nixon administration is making new
efforts to reform one of student radicals’ prime targets—the Selective Service System. The administration's Draft Reform Bill has been delayed
in Congress. So Nixon aides are reportedly working on an executive order which would institute draft reforms without waiting for
Congressional action.

President Nixon stressed his concern over present inequities in the draft when he spoke to the National Governors’ Conference Sept.
1. He said he attached “special priority as a matter of high principle” to draft reform and added, “Until peacetime
conditions make an all-volunteer armed force possible—while the draft remains necessary—it is imperative that we make it as nearly fair
as possible, and that we reduce to a minimum the unnecessarily long period of uncertainty that now hangs over the
lives of millions of our young people.”

Sources close to the President say that his proposal will end the present policy of drafting the oldest eligible men,
those 25 and 26 years old. Instead, it will call for drafting the youngest, the 19-year-olds, first. Thus a nineteen-year-old
who is not drafted would likely miss the draft altogether, except in case of national emergency. However, students who enjoy
college deferments would face a one-year period of high draft eligibility after graduation.

Nixon's Draft Reform Bill also calls for a national lottery which would draft students at random. This measure will require
Congressional approval since the 1967 draft law specifically forbade such a system. On September 19, Nixon announced that November and
December draft calls would be canceled, and that the October call for 30,000 men would be stretched over the remainder
of the year.

Applause again for this dead master. Instantly again, this time Jimi Hendrix, Wild Thing. He somersaults holding his guitar, humps
the amp, squeezes out lighter fluid onto the ax, lights it. In the crowd, you see people you know, or
think you know, or would like to know. The Shanker set ends, and with it cries for “more, more.” And
the film ends, and with cries of “more, more...”

Some film critics would say that the work leaves something to be desired as a documentary, but it says more
about young people and their music, their lifestyle, than any Hollywood flick has ever said. See it. You don’t even
have to be stoned to dig it.

The Trouble With ‘Alice’
A REVIEW By BILL SIEVERT
College Press Service

Be prepared. You can’t get anything you want at Alice's Restaurant. All the Arlo Guthrie fans jamming premiere theaters to
see his film version of “Alice’s Restaurant” will find the movie isn’t at all what they came to see. Alice’s
Restaurant, the song, is rather funny—the story of Arlo getting arrested for dumping garbage and his failing the draft physical
because of his “criminal” record. But the humor is secondary to the serious, sad, and often depressing side of Arlo
Guthrie’s adventures as a college drop-out folk artist trying to pick up where his father left off.

The movie is very biographical, and it appears that Arlo no longer has the carefree attitude toward life and the
trials life brings that he had when he penned the song. There are poignant scenes in the movie as Arlo
thinks of his dying father, folk singer Woody Guthrie, and as he later visits his parents with Pete Seeger. There
are also serious scenes involving a friend of Arlo's who is hooked on heroin, attempts to kick his addiction, and
ends up dead from an overdose. There is no indictment of grass, by the way, as Arlo and his friends
frequently pass the joint. There is somewhat of an indictment—or a questioning at any rate—of the “beautiful people” life which
Alice and her husband Ray Brock try to live. The couple becomes less happy and sure of itself as the
film progresses and more worried over the futures of friends.

The couple buys an old church (in Great Barrington, Mass.) and turns it into a commune for hip friends. Alice
also starts a restaurant nearby. But even with lots of friends, music, and excitement, their unhappiness together and their fears
show. Guthrie himself is more of an observer of all these happenings than the star of the movie. His performing
moments come telling the tale of Alice. And that tale comes off a lot better on the recording. The song,
or the lines, are funnier when one can use his imagination. When theatrically spoken in a technicolor movie with nothing
left to the imagination, the lines sound a bit awkward.

Take the garbage dumping scene. Officer Obie calls Arlo and says, “I found your name on a piece of paper
under half a ton of garbage.” Image. In the film, where the image is drawn out for you, it wasn't
really very ridiculous at all. The garbage pile wasn't so big, and there was nothing difficult about finding Arlo's name.
Officer Obie, played by the officer who actually arrested Guthrie on the dumping charge, gives one of the most refreshing
touches to the film. To see a real cop portraying himself as “a fat, dopey cop” is a delight.

The movie attempts to create for the screen Arlo’s true-life experiences as accurately as possible, while still providing enough meat
to sell tickets to a general audience (not just Arlo Guthrie fans). Unfortunately for those of us who had expected
it, “Alice’s Restaurant” is not a slapstick, hilarious sequel to the song. It is instead a presentation of both the
happiness and unhappiness in the lives of the people it presents, and the unhappy, serious, and concerned side dominates.

Would The Real Davidson Please...
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON

Little can be more unhappy for a person than to feel unneeded, irrelevant, or generally out of place. The feeling
is at best uncomfortable and can lead to a walling out of the reality that reminds the person of his
disjointedness with the environment. Such is the problem that Davidson College faces. It isn’t just the question of co-education or
church relationship or social patterns, or any of the other specifics which scores of committees and commissions have considered. The
real question at the bottom is identity, which is unfortunate for three reasons: First, it is the wrong question. Second,
even if identity were the question, it hasn't really been considered, probably because it’s too basic and scary. And third,
the vague approximations of the question that have been proposed have been in the hands of five separate commissions, who
deliver their findings over to an outside agency which can then play psychoanalyst to a five-sided schizophrenic.

This disjointed semi-consideration of identity hurts the college because there has to be a willingness to go as far as
necessary, to find and accept the facts no matter what the facts are, before a really thorough reexamination can proceed.

Readers’ Forum

This space is reserved for your letter. THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters to the editor on any subject, regardless of the
views expressed. Letters should not exceed 250 words in length, and we reserve the right to condense letters which are
longer, and to correct for grammar and style. THE DAVIDSONIAN has never in recent years refused to print a letter
which was in good taste and whose author could be confirmed.

Granted, the college has gone deeper than the self-study report or the blue-skying, but it has yet to say that
it is ready to accept—if this be the case—that the liberal arts college has seen its day or that religious
affiliation has to go. What Davidson will lack as a result of its halfway consideration of its identity is the
assurance that the identity is worthwhile, that Davidson can function as a Christian, liberal arts school and accomplish something. The
irony of the situation is that Davidson College would come through such analysis with its identity unscathed, although with much
criticism of the expression of that identity. This is why identity is the wrong question. What is at issue is
the expression of the identity: the action, not the essence.

The college's full acceptance of itself is a step along the road to expression of itself freely and effectively, but
the problem is that commissions, committees, and the college as a whole are hung up on giving identity a halfway
consideration, and mistaking this halfway consideration for the real thing. The effect of this will certainly not be disastrous by
any means, but it will leave the college with a nagging insecurity about itself when it should be dealing with
the problems of the outside world. The college is not an end to itself but is meant to serve, and
the sooner it can get over its overdone introspection and get on with things, the better.
