FAMED NUDIST ALUMNUS DIES (See Page Two!)

EXAM CHANGE STALLED
Faculty Vote Opens Dorm Doors
By JOHN McLEAN

State Welter Wik tee debate thw fuo- silly lant Teetetny voted ap- peoval of the RELA Constite tii amid votocl
tawi m1 seg Wnt otinsoced prapasal for ql schuctaliiag waieren, Thy Coonlty ann vlad ape ‘proved of pret. prene’in sels.
Alle. Tha edhe dude's ante Chiedtite fee thbe wae be ohne Peaviddon af @ Able Coe qpring Wllsbsdne The RAHA
constituthaty, whieh tnd suerived a Jong figlt agaiodt the obsections af Desa af Students Rialmrd C. Barta Je in the
Stade Lilly Covteinrettine, goat at meiay vietory di the factisy sitet breit. Poduity approval came jum ta tre for oq
dorme dur dng the cuhowet Weekend. Bid tw daoulte itlew sone Burts: Revisions Creeping Along Heviuoes ba oabuidewt oun duet
pies (idlowing Uli poe anaee OF tlhe Caeler nl espe alBLG WOE tbe aba lyue wilt aventunhy cont, Dyer of
Shvidewt Ried ©, Burex, de nih Puiernad ay Toe ravigion ti de tlhe huthds Od aj skpmecnsber deeemetlow Myon ax
the Dews's Céeneil- The mvoup emia to. sth dont; but tnoivdea the tte- partavedt thawds sder the

OPEN DORMS
The follewleag dorms will te open ta warner this weetend.
Lilile Germ, 3-6 itm. Saturday
Watts Dorm, 9-12 p.m. today; 3-5 p.m. Saturday
Belk Dorm, 8-11 p.m. today; 2-5 p.m. Saturday
Cannon Dorm, 9-12 a.m. today; 2-5 p.m. Saturday.
East Dorm, 9-12 p.m. today; 2-4 a.m. Saturday
Duke Dorm, 10-12 p.m. today; 2-4:30 p.m. Saturday.
Richardson Dorm, 9-11 p.m. today; 3-8 p.m. Saturday.

Rules of conduct for the open dorms are [hese In the Code of Responsibility, dean of students, Annweg shddutst bentyl
pulley aro foalernity Os fmurp Htiwary citen and Gradfle roe ablathatss, Bier ad dhe conmientttie: ig muoviiie, Has mo wrebive
very tied"? Whenever abi eommities fusishes dls revdn inns -the dean anid ie would the fey the end of the
venr— the peesident of the colbuqe: imast apprave ther. Revise cequire no Mnedlty dictian hecaves, according to Burts, the faculty
bas slap: qed “out af the nludent cents dock wre” mad “dofarred tu the Code at Responstbliliy ~ Buste -salet
le did aot eax qeet students ter be corsailted ww davixadation af the Tiles, abd tae the president bad nol
-seun any af the pirapesats yel Atocnburs af the committee are Auris: Mrs Polec Nic- fanttc. disvelor of sluident boasie:
Seett Weadmotece, callege vbaplaie: Jim Terry, ysintowt due af stedesine C, ahaw Sait, dicocine af tho Oniot: aa Soin Berth
deat daveb Ot tlhe Taian, The rales Wetme revised in élide all Unose lated stu dew windoet" in the Wilde
Hindtnah, Bertie said; batt do nist Inches noudendt: tout: setinna such) my eilaiais 1b. toudanee

One New Course Is 3.33
By STEPHEN ROADY
Mali Weiter

Twa of the peoblecss re wilitine Toom thy witch from oo three to louy pein Jtrade scale have: Boon nip.
ed aut, Hepistrar J. 1 Ont. oil subd thts week, Since oredit is naw ly coume only. act 13a se
anexter firs tonibee tho ob systens was mudi: to AnCPO. apond to one wut for commiting grudge polmt wd qeuklity
= feD lg eae nee, FOTO hora were fled jus Whe iow ty toblver LOUTSUS, bere qenabes froin dle ole
Hours pystem were corriod afar fh. the mew, but sumerion! eq Wolents of vid prados worw fiot chinndett da confnra
te the we e@enrdleng sitole. For esuimplir, (La ovijue iy of im atudent's goursen wer under thie old system, aie
le ie cae af db Heaior. god lw ow Cindertiite new syste) tan am vera 27 tr B pita overngs,
bi nel merical avecage th between M6 ond Oo padisoe tom be tWeon 1 aed TD. ‘Thuretaee, for tingrielaitive plirpemes.
Curren) overnll Jeter ayer: nges abuld bo oquuted tu- meron) wo the att grading arale. diven u prapasal wie wuld
iow students 4 pedlledity Whekr oven exaens. According to Dy. Frattis W afahinsion, Bean at twealty , tbe peapom! wan
sipponed ty hett Riera and conmirwd tie: by Uberals wipy wuutt- wd der testy the whiney Abie pirvitbss ne) by
aupreryyy tives wabo sale tht nadf-ulud fine ences. HUE Cromtm Leo mooh gterical ted (ohn The nenpidid tiv Deut pret
eed ly Ate Borvalir, ‘Tenet tfoeord ta tebeee -ALpedend whoelin. der uel cee Thanet, dnd pert adhar syria fay layweloondedt”
qypofe ture, The (rapoen| ad wale brow ANTVOVC KibmMeolAly bh {fo Incully “EaiWentionat Praltes Commillcc. The dacudly Wastine puspavel ayoimutiie
diewokiapy thee tea wadlonol Pulley Coucvsliane Yi teonhdy Une wider esa art mee and ooke queasy his for Ith teyliton,
The whininigoe eould pro fuse chanpes lapolying Uy vxigtence of examin and. ail (ets, Faculty rilus presently

Senate Election Tuesday
Bileothons (or clans avetler, Hotense mavisur ah YMCA Aitieeey wl be hele risnh ‘Kawalay;, sled Bleatbestes Hon Chatrman Feo Mer
play. Runaing for the thirw ioth hk Sonler Clagk senutue wre Tim Bymum, Clff Mult dtike Flemming. Dall Fued- erherk,
Barry Gobdman, Si Hinshaw, Bachacd Avward apd Jotin Huggins. Gury Cash, Ban Colhhe: Hiuh Benms, Rok NMrwhhlel. Ciartic Ralston sed
Tom over: are ruordng Cie ihe tiree positions stay Jima Chiss nenior. Whit Agra, Cecil Burney, Denny Cladfeter, Robin Geay,
Tetd Hobbie Howard Rapnwell, Stevwars Ragucr= dined daisy Turner ain ginns ing fer Sophomate Chis “0fLLar. Running Cor YMCA over!
ent are Emermon Balt, Alor vin Eflisnn onnst stulsnity Livetz, and tue VMERA Vice pereciclent. Grug Sevwts Teton (See ELECTION,
Page 4}

BULLETIN
The Educational Policy Committee, which earlier this year unanimously recommended self-scheduled exams to the faculty, decided yesterday afternoon not to
press for another vote on the matter. Instead, the committee said, it will consider self-scheduled exams within the broader study
of overall exam policy as approved by the faculty last Tuesday. Temporary rules for all exams will be established until
the committee completes its study and reports to the faculty. The committee will meet with the Board of Trustees at
the beginning of the spring semester to discuss the status of the RAA Constitution. Meanwhile, Peter Battle, SGA president-elect, noted
that the student personnel committee is responsible for the preparation of the constitution. Battle said this covers the Code of
Responsibility and concerns the actions of students. He also said that the revisions require no faculty action because, according to
Burts, the faculty has stepped "out of the student conduct area" and "deferred to the Code of Responsibility." Burts said
he did not expect students to be consulted on the revision of the rules, and that the president had not
seen any of the proposals yet. Members of the committee are Burts, Mrs. Polec Nic- fanttc, director of student housing,
Scott Weadmotece, college chaplain, Jim Terry, assistant dean of students, C. Shaw Sait, director of the Union, and Soin Berth,
dean of the faculty. The rules were revised to include all those related to student conduct in the Code of
Responsibility, Burts said, but do not include academic regulations such as attendance.

One New Course Is 3.33
By STEPHEN ROADY
Mail Writer

Two of the problems resulting from the switch from a three to four-point grading scale have been ironed out, Registrar
J. L. Ont. said this week. Since credit is now by course only, not by semester hours, the old system
was modified to correspond to one unit for computing grade point and quality points. For example, if the majority of
a student's courses were under the old system, as in the case of a senior, and he is under the
new system, his average of 27 to 30 points would be converted to the new numerical average of between 3.6
and 4.0. Therefore, for transcript purposes, current overall letter averages should be equated to the new grading scale. Given a
proposal that would allow students to petition for exam exemptions, according to Dr. Frattis W. Washington, Dean of Faculty, the
proposal was supported by both liberals who wanted to test the policy and conservatives who said it made sense. The
new policy was presented by the Board of Trustees. The proposal was approved by the Educational Practices Committee. The faculty
was expected to discuss the proposal at the National Policy Convention. The winning proposal could produce changes involving the existence
of exams and all tests. Faculty rules presently

Senate Election Tuesday
Elections for class senator, Homecoming advisor, and YMCA attorney will be held this Tuesday. Candidates for Senior Class senator are
Tim Bynum, Cliff Mault, Mike Fleming, Dale Frederick, Barry Goldman, Si Hinshaw, Richard Howard, and John Huggins. Gary Cash, Ben
Collie, Hugh Benms, Rob Mitchell, Charlie Ralston, and Tom Over are running for the three positions. Jim Chiss, senior, Whit
Agra, Cecil Burney, Denny Cladfeter, Robin Geay, Ted Hobbie, Howard Rapnwell, Steve Ragucr, and Daisy Turner are running for Sophomore
Class senator. Running for YMCA president are Emerson Balt, Alorvin Ellison, and Stulsnity Livetz, and for YMCA Vice President, Greg
Sevwts Teton (See ELECTION, Page 4)

BULLETIN
The Educational Policy Committee, which earlier this year unanimously recommended self-scheduled exams to the faculty, decided yesterday afternoon not to
press for another vote on the matter. Instead, the committee said, it will consider self-scheduled exams within the broader study
of overall exam policy as approved by the faculty last Tuesday. Temporary rules for all exams will be established until
the committee completes its study and reports to the faculty. The committee will meet with the Board of Trustees at
the beginning of the spring semester to discuss the status of the RAA Constitution. Meanwhile, Peter Battle, SGA president-elect, noted
that the student personnel committee is responsible for the preparation of the constitution. Battle said this covers the Code of
Responsibility and concerns the actions of students. He also said that the revisions require no faculty action because, according to
Burts, the faculty has stepped "out of the student conduct area" and "deferred to the Code of Responsibility." Burts said
he did not expect students to be consulted on the revision of the rules, and that the president had not
seen any of the proposals yet. Members of the committee are Burts, Mrs. Polec Nic- fanttc, director of student housing,
Scott Weadmotece, college chaplain, Jim Terry, assistant dean of students, C. Shaw Sait, director of the Union, and Soin Berth,
dean of the faculty. The rules were revised to include all those related to student conduct in the Code of
Responsibility, Burts said, but do not include academic regulations such as attendance.

ACADEMIC CALENDAR, 1969-1970
Fall Term
Orientation (Tentative) September 22
Registration September 24
Classes Begin September 25
Thanksgiving Recess Begins November 25
Thanksgiving Recess Ends December 1
Fall Term Ends December 6
Pre-Examinations Study Day December 8
Fall Examinations Begin December 9
Fall Examinations End December 16
Christmas Vacation Begins December 17

Winter Term
Registration January 5
Classes Begin January 6
Winter Recess Begins March 1
Winter Recess Ends March 8
Winter Term Ends March 20
Pre-Examinations Study Day March 21
Winter Examinations Begin March 23
Winter Examinations End March 30
Spring Vacation Begins March 31

Spring Term
Registration April 6
Classes Begin April 7
Spring Recess Begins May 1
Spring Recess Ends May 4
Spring Term Ends May 30
Pre-Examinations Study Day June 1
Spring Examinations Begin June 2
Spring Examinations End June 9Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Mancinatiinan End Buecatwusente nat Cornelian Livia Rsaeatws “Hobbie Sweeps Presidency With 65 Percent Of Vote Opie Gains Second Spot; Rentz
Will Edit Annual By CANNY WHITE Siall Weller Kay at Alvdy aii Vickey sity Precedvitou i Teer yastra jimlir Votor
Jlalidis oiinns vd) preiornh of Ee! robe adenine lwo dppenecith tt ealure the SGA presidency jn Tuentiny’s alwotians. Suptiionoce Tana
Cpl woe The Hue ptdduatial pace — « ocavelt Wednesitay with ‘ainsamale EM Dubs bo ‘vote wt 4d to 36
damaeay Trogeell oo wnn — elienbtsitled Tthetsily Church ‘Relatedness’: Add Faith, Pinch Of Learning By CHARLES McEWEN Associate Editor The
Scand of Three Articles Baayen Marrsin ia in vel ovawor aebedel Ansitaicd professor vit pitt. Hisophy, ir Mmetin tn vito
a frill (al Dawid.) retlagdivth ship tlh thie | |nredyetieniony Chueh, Wa Si Coeducation Gets Overwhelming Support In Student-Faculty Poll
By ROBAIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief An overwhelming majority of students and faculty apparently favor the admission of female students and more
minority group students to Davidson. That was the gist of a poll taken recently by THE DAVIDSONIAN. A five-part questionnaire
was distributed to the entire faculty and to the students who voted in the recent SGA elections. Of the 47
faculty members returning questionnaires, 41 (87 percent) favored coeducation or a coordinate campus for Davidson. Fifty-three percent (25 of 47)
said they would favor admitting larger numbers of minority group students who are fully qualified under present admission standards. Two
hundred and eighty of the 617 students who filled out questionnaires (45 percent of the total SGA vote Tuesday) want
female students for Davidson — 166 favoring a coordinate campus and another 114 favoring coeducation. Two hundred and fifty-three of
260 favor admitting more qualified minority group students. The entire (Rasen) poll was distributed to the trustees, but only 11
responded. Ten of those declined to voice opinions until they have the reports of the Spencer advisory commission. “Personally, I
feel that it would be premature for me to answer a questionnaire such as you have sent until we have
had the opportunity to have the benefit of the reports of the commissions,” wrote Trustee President Wallace L. Linde Jr.
“For this reason, I hope that you will forgive me if I do not answer your questionnaire.” Of those trustees
who did answer questions, five favored coeducation, one was against it, and five were undecided. The only three who addressed
themselves to the admission of more minority group students said they favored it. Seventeen percent of the students polled (dy
and 7 percent of the faculty) wished to retain Davidson’s all-male status. Twenty-three students and two faculty members were undecided.
A few professors scolded THE DAVIDSONIAN for its question concerning the admission of more qualified minority group students. One called
it “irrelevant” and another “vague.” But several others, who answered “yes,” varied more in their reasoning and shared some doubts.
The students and faculty were also polled for their knowledge of the proposed Five Year Plan, which would allow students
to complete graduation requirements. Thirty-one of 47 faculty members said they were familiar with it and 27 said they would
favor its implementation. (See COED Page 6) At the same time, the benefit of books, Mr. Martin said, “Other —
pedagogical, The Mass Follow, Faith We and trust Fulham, for the Linde, over the re literature were if they criticized
some of the stipulations which Jewish reluctance rules it. Davidson adheres to his laws government ties with the church. MIE
tty of minimally feasible,” After teaching at Davidson for two years, Martin said he will not be back next year.
He added that he was “caught here on a two-year appointment” which precludes his returning, but under the bylaws of
Davidson's governing body, the Board of Trustees, Martin definitely could not become a faculty member with tenure even if he
wished to stay. To receive tenure here, a person must have been teaching at an educational institution of higher learning
for at least seven years, during four of which he must have been teaching at Davidson. In addition, whenever a
person is recommended for tenure, the administration must be convinced that the nominee “is committed to the Christian faith, is
a member of a Christian church, comprehends the Statement of Purpose of the College and intends to promote its purpose.”
In a letter to the trustees, Martin said he was “not qualified to live up to the requirements.” He published
works on philosophy and his religion. “With the right to a place, I did not find it honorable that my
husband: Martin would ever be subjected to an academic head place. The bylaws obviously prevent the hiring of a Jew
as a tenured faculty member. And when the trustees abolished the faculty oath so a Roman Catholic could have become
a faculty member with tenure, it was then that the trustees officially set up the present rules for faculty employment.
These rules still hold the stipulation that a majority of the faculty and a majority of the full professors be
members of some branch of the Presbyterian Church. These facets of Davidson's church relatedness should be apparent to any man
who seeks a position on the faculty. When a man comes here for an interview, he is given a statement
of employment which includes a statement of the tenure requirement,” said Dr. Francis W. Johnston. (See CHURCH; Page 5) Hobbie
continued and Wake was to make it viewed. For Junior Class threads Nun Head who received poll votes: Phil Tassel
polled by written. Ty prince dined To other elections, Harrell Heote was elected editor of the Quins and Crystals by
the junior kinds only a fraction of 10 under its apparent. many Alotawhaen: The junior class also elected Ken Crown
and Mike Cult. few are formed and certain to strengthen. Addo David and Ci Peterson, Jimmy Flair and Brice: Wolf
were eliminated. Tuesday Newcomer here Milly was elected and received over To Beapailive to at China now. AA de Tall
dey ae ouvilended efimctinin. Cyel Sab Wer wes elect veld att lye Abinvelliny sine tho Merriayiry wel Femokiin andra wet
qlee) onediter- of THE IOAVIDSONTAN. THI Traxler Wat nl6o wnoppusvel sin oli Hols OT the Sows Cinenel | tn ludietal
weatinian {rent Wed Tay Ball vine wiles au Mie Bewutatienve Caney wladbe fewer alter Rtudenl wane aut SALYER RESIGNS Todd
Hobbie Fills oH y PETER HOGBIE ed whonning majority rp bhe ped Court, Faint beers Hell ret Mihi Law Trvadliy
saver wieret Whevw vluctud wl hate. enndidates while sighazrices Muck. Attoldt and dali Bhat Angee wenn en ie imeote Weed.
nesdisip avert ou fiakd ab {lye Cheasiff ee ody for Promati- wan flaioy Caurt porttions, Davihor- wll) yore an Beata
Muna Goer Puoadsty Senate Vacancy Todd Hobbie succeeded Kanye Salyer as Freshman Class president Tuesday when the students were polled
to accept the resignation of Salyer as president and elected Hobbie. The Senate also set a due for President Samuel
R. Spencer Jr., acting for an ion an uninohing doadrs an Chomier aad peaviting uniueeney medlcul aemines wii a bueber
Fire alpen wys tern. Entrneiucedl by ftithenon Cee Buracy, the lotter was approved unutitounty, The Senate Anpeinted Sonne Burney, Rooer
Mille and tu dy Turner ta uri tho iinttwe. During the — cdksctssiin whith preceded vite on the letter, suvural
setiatirs ee. a lated Ye administrative ete. peranents af the calleme bid. eliker reftewed do act oc hue Biven diem
the run-aravand an the topies corueud in the hotter. Seaulie Rich Cewart resnd A WHt to the Senate Cram the
Cotirt if Anpuats, which tad =o euluth — Astitle = IV, Sevfinn ah out the lays nwa uneanedlitutionnl The welt
tdivéseud the Senale to uber peviys the seotion or Gelert th, wld ie Was. memtteT guiodts. The «= aeendin —
pprolsibibed “ah Mudenl tebord fia foutrth lacwnord year” Seo Fisntitie foe an offlee sestrict. ed ta 4 purtivatur clasa. Tie
court ruled « shudedh ooubl be even hile fourth yeur fod titt bp a senior.
