y M1) | Touring Ladies - Test Foglemen — o~ Bie Bautdaniiate April 13, 1968 Par American Know-How, Swedish Finesse
And A Sunny Day ® Five e , ‘ é the background, a ‘a Whitty ROTE students enmeshed in forga
alomment of the por military section at the college j {iocuait ip Hie tennis courts Tuesday to witness the Oarwld-
- y top tearls team play Jennig — with some lovely opponents: ' Four 94 the warn participants In the
Charlotte Invitational Tennis Tournament pleased the lac gar-Lhon ior ital cron with their know-how and finesse. Participating in the exhibition
with the Davidson team were Miss Kathy Ann Hogan, 16th ranking U.S. woman; Lativs DuPont of Charlotte; and two top-ranking
Swedish ladies, Kristinn Sandburg, ranked first, and Margaretha Stanberg, ranked third. The girls participated in both singles and doubles. In
the featured singles match, Davidson's Woody Faulk lost to Miss Hogan, 6-4, 6-4. At left, Miss Hogan delivers a serve
in her match with Faulk, which she led until Faulk rallied. At right, Rusty Lawrence takes some instruction from Miss
Standberg in their mixed doubles match, while at far right, Miss Sandberg applies a bit of finesse to a backhand
return of a Harlan Day shot. (Staff Photos by Davidson.)

Scott Ends Month-Long Search As Coach
By BOB DUNHAM
Editor-in-Chief

Scott said that he was not yet developed, adding that assistants would be arriving soon. He was on campus yesterday
for an interview. He met Brown while working on his master’s degree at Carolina. After leaving Carolina, he was named
AILACE. Brickels has served for two years as a high school coach in Columbus, Ohio, where he set an impressive
81-94 varsity record. Both Brown and Brickels are familiar with high school material and are expected to be able to
salvage Davidson's recruiting for this year.

Brown, who had expressed interest in the job soon after Driesell announced his decision to go to the University of
Maryland, is currently a starting guard with the Oakland Oaks of the American Basketball Association. When asked if he thought
recruiting would be a problem this year, Brown commented, "It looks like the only Ire Sultan used to rub to
cause his genie to appear. Inlaid stone in a gold setting with six mystical stars surrounding it. The truth is
that it does not belong to any sultan. It belongs to Mike Maloy and the nine other All-Americans named by
Look magazine. The ring was especially designed as a memento for the star team."

In the assistant coaching position at Rice University, Brown, 28, the former star for the University of North Carolina, is
currently playing with the Oaks in the ABA.

Early Acceptance Students Include Sports Prospects
In the 160th weight class, prospects for the next class joined this winter. Parker subsidized sports at Davidson. Dave Staveiotes
from St. Louis, N.Y., placed second in the conference and third in the state selection. The other replied in the
negative, "Students interested in Davidson will also be interested in Davidson when I arrive," expressing great enthusiasm. Brown said from
Carolina, "It is useful to be checking a school that is respected, and I think that we can carry on
in the same tradition."

Brown was recruited at Carolina by Frank McGuire, recently named ACC Coach of the Year at South Carolina. He played
for two years under McGuire and completed his play at UNC under Dean Smith, the current Tar Heel coach. Brown's
role at Davidson has tremendous connections. He will be strong in recruiting competition for me at South Carolina and also
for North Carolina. We are a very popular venue. His Olympic coach, Harry Th, said, "He's a work-dedicated young man
and a fierce competitor. He knows basketball and gets along well with the players and people in general."

Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott, who made the final decision, said, "We are very fortunate to get someone like Larry.
There is no gate: Maryland hopes in his efforts to make the University of Maryland the UCLA of the East
Coast." Former Davidson basketball coach Lefty Driesell has employed some unusual tactics, and they have paid off. In response to
a full-page ad in the Washington Post, which pictured four high school basketball standouts and the caption "We want you
at the University of Maryland," one of the stars has signed and two others are considering. One of the four,
however, was persuaded by Senator Edward Kennedy to attend Howard.Instead, the one name that far away dominated O'Brien, a young
lie: scorer from the Atutrt High School to Rabb Church, Va. O'Brien, 67, was named this year as the Outstanding
Player in Virginia, where he was a unanimous pick for the all-state team. The leading scorer at the school, in
turn for the best, called him a "real prospect" in the 174 lb. class. The Washington Heel mentor is fairly
certain about State this year. He broke records as the early acceptance in the senior year. Brown was the game.
Maryland, every one of Stuart's scoring feats were posted. Jeff Dunsanaky from Leo- The premier trackman of records. Wrestling, track,
and tennis appear to have top talent coming in next year's freshman class. According to the Athletic Department, the boys
who have been accepted include Davidson Coach Charles Parker's new recruits. Bett Kirkpatrick, a top squad member, is from Nashville.
By STEVE NEWSOME with VAGL Lawrence from Atlanta, only one match this year, EVINRUDE said last year. Rusty from Nashville,
would have been each tenth. Whittle Sports Writer dropped his number one singles match to Paul Dickinson, 6-3, in a
well-fought match. The new number one player, Rusty Lawrence, has been a bright spot in several recent matches, including his
win against MIT. In another strengthening move, Barker ran a 4:22.9 mile last year as a junior. His top time
at the two-mile run was 9:22. He was the Southern Invitational Champion and was selected for the National Junior Olympics.
He had scholarship offers from Portsmouth and Tennessee. Jeff Allender, Gary Smith, and Jim Campbell are all distance and cross-country
runners as well. Campbell has recorded a 10:55 two-mile. Fred Poisson and George Thomas are both experienced sprinters. Hottie Summit
runs the 440, and Alton Wilson has run in the mile relay and the hurdles. Tennis coach Harry Bogerman has
also had some top prospects accepted. Jim Gaines of Covington, Georgia, was singles champion in his conference last season. Bill
Koch from Little Rock, Ark., is ranked first in the state among high school players and third in the men's
division. The baseball team has two top players, Davis, who was in Philadelphia, and David Griffiths. Griffiths is an American
Legion all-star catcher. He is from Trenton, New Jersey.

Fogleman Shuffles Tennis Ranks To Increase Tournament Hopes

In an effort to repeat as the Southern Conference champions, Coach Harry Fogleman shuffled his lineup this week, and the
result was an 8-1 trouncing of VMI. The team had suffered three straight setbacks before Fogleman turned the shuffle. The
losses came at the hands of MIT, Harvard, and William and Mary. In the new lineup, top player Woody Faulk
was moved into the second slot, second-rated Randy Jones was shifted into the number three position, and third-seeded Rusty Lawrence
was advanced two slots to the number one spot. In Wednesday's match, Fogleman played sophomore Jim Cantrell in the number
six spot against VMI. The defending Southern Conference champion in the number five position, Cantrell has been sidelined this season
with mononucleosis and is just now returning to play. By the time the conference tournament is played, Cantrell may be
moved up a position or two. He won his singles and doubles competition in the VMI match and will go
again this afternoon when the team faces Emory University in Atlanta and tomorrow against Oglethorpe. Also this year, as a
sophomore, Lawrence has shown real improvement. This was Lawrence's first year of competitive tennis since he began high school, largely
because of his other athletic role as a starting end on the football team. In this year's Southern Conference Tournament,
to be held May 8-10 at the host courts of The Citadel, Lawrence will face some of the roughest competition
that the number one singles competition has provided in recent years. Harlan Day, in the number four slot, and Al
Varner in five will round out the singles lineup for Fogleman's team. Varner has been a standout in recent matches.

Love One-fourth Pound Hamburgers

The Open 'til 12:30 a.m. FOR SATURDAY SUPPER

Department at the university, a few other boys pictured in the ad have indicated that they will accept Maryland scholarships.
Monday—Friday Hub pick up a box or a bucket this weekend. Ham On Jewish Rye old pal, still good, can
be rebuilt like new!

BRING FRESHMEN PACE CINDER TEAM

Ray Smatenburg, shown here clearing a hurdle, is one of the two freshmen who currently control the hopes of the
Davidson track team. Swatenburg runs hurdles, long jumps, and triple jumps for the squad. Another freshman, Tommy Richardson, has paced
the team in the sprints, aiding sophomore Irby Wood. 64, was an all-sectional, All-Western Davidson, North Carolina Pennsylvania Interscholastic. The
team, along with the rest of the squad, is busy preparing for this weekend's Davidson Relays.
