WILDCATS GO BOWLING HOYT REVIEWS - COMMISSION REPORTS (See Page Six) Published Weekly By Davidson Students DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, LIX 1969 NUMBER EIGHT

Surprise Faculty Seat Abolishes Area Exams

RESOLUTION TEXT

The following is the text of the faculty motion on area exams which was passed at their meeting Tuesday:

That Area Examinations be discontinued immediately;

That the whole question of requirements and evaluation of work beyond that required in courses be remanded to a special committee appointed by the President for study;

That at some date at least one year from November 11, 1969, but not later than two years from this date, this special committee make to the faculty suggestions of its recommendations growing out of this study; and

That, in the meantime, Freshmen and Sophomores shall take three courses per term (even in the spring term), EXCEPT that a Freshman or Sophomore who has passed one or more Area Examinations shall be exempt from the requirement of taking a third course. The required third term course will be a free elective.

The courses a student is required to take under this item shall be free electives and added to his graduation requirements.

In addition, a student who has passed only one area examination shall be exempt from the three-course requirement only once. The courses a student is required to take under this item shall be free electives and added to his graduation requirements.

A minor crisis in the publishing history of THE DAVIDSONIAN was averted this week when President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. withdrew his objections to the publication of an additional 16,000 copies of last week's paper.

The paper was devoted almost entirely to the abridged reports of Spencer's five study commissions, appointed in the fall of 1968.

THE DAVIDSONIAN had agreed to let the News Bureau and Spencer approve the abridgments in exchange for assurance that the paper would be mailed to the 16,000 alumni.

Because of its displeasure with the presence of an editorial, the administration decided to remake the reports and send them out without the accompanying editorial. This did not affect the circulation to students or regular subscribers, only through the regular mail.

Wright Conducts Convocation Here

Davidson College's Tenth Annual Sacred Music Convocation will begin tonight at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium, and resume at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow afternoon.

Searle Wright, Director of Chapel Music and Teacher of Organ at Columbia, will be the guest conductor.

The convocation will also include a variety of lectures and discussions in the field of sacred music.

Searle Wright is national president of the American Guild of Organists and also teaches at the School of Sacred Music, Union Theological Seminary, New York City.

Both performances are free and open to all interested persons.

Choirs from Salem College and Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte will join the Davidson College Male Chorus in singing.

Vietnam Imprisonment

By STEVE CROSS
Asst. Copy Editor

"I sent a letter of protest to Dr. Spencer Friday night," said Mr. Dunham, "after I heard of his initial decision to remake the reports. Considering the agreement, I expressed my opinion that such an action was both unnecessary and unfair."

Monday morning Spencer indicated to Dunham that he had been unaware of the binding agreement, and that he had revoked his previous decision. He said that the paper would be mailed to the alumni as published.

The college will bear the financial burden of printing and mailing the additional copies.

Dabney is four and a half. Her father, Davidson alumnus Porter Halyburton, left for Vietnam when she was 10 days old. He is now a prisoner of war in North Vietnam.

Lieutenant Junior Grade Porter Halyburton, USN, flew an F-4 Phantom jet in the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, and was shot down in October 1965. Mrs. Halyburton was informed by the United States Navy that he was a prisoner of war.

She has sent him two Christmas packages, one of which was returned unopened. She has received no mail from him.

"I have good reason to believe he has never heard from me," she said.

She has also written two North Vietnamese delegates at the Paris peace talks, Xuan Thuy and Xuan Onah, but has received no help from them. The United States Navy, however, has assigned an officer to assist her in contacting her husband.

Until recently, the families of prisoners of war have kept quiet on prison conditions because they feared reprisals. But last May, when Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird demanded the release of all American POWs, and condemned their treatment, the wives of prisoners were encouraged to speak up.

Several faculty members have received official permission from the RHC to hold open dorms by the required two-thirds majority vote.

Presently the maximum hours allowed for open dorms are Sunday-Thursday nights from noon to midnight and Friday and Saturday nights from noon to 2 a.m.

Residents of Belk, Duke, and Little dorms have already passed a similar referendum but the RHC has not yet had a chance to approve their action.

Three dorms are now holding open house on a daily basis. The maximum permissible hours for open dorms were also increased.

The spring term was reduced to two regular courses to encourage independent study for the examination.

Criticism of the program grew when the majority of the Class of '72 failed to pass more than one of the examinations.

Several faculty members have received official permission from the RHC to hold open dorms by the required two-thirds majority vote.

Presently the maximum hours allowed for open dorms are Sunday-Thursday nights from noon to midnight and Friday and Saturday nights from noon to 2 a.m.

Residents of Belk, Duke, and Little dorms have already passed a similar referendum but the RHC has not yet had a chance to approve their action.

Three dorms are now holding open house on a daily basis. The maximum permissible hours for open dorms were also increased.Navy that Asked about the charges. | 11] US SOO POUU CDE + Da tid nyt mise Seok ssulard “The whole matter was an unfortunate misunderstanding,” Dunham said. “Though there was certainly some break down in administrative communication, I personally assume a great deal of the blame. 

In February 1967, his status was changed by the Navy to Prisoner of War. “This is a very touchy thing,” says Mrs. Halyburton. “They're quite sure he’s still alive, but they gave me no source for the information.” 

The three released prisoners, all from the Navy, were Frischmann, and Seaman Heghdal. Matheny was released in February 1967 after four months imprisonment. 

Dana Professor of Political Science at Duke University and an Africa specialist, will be a visiting professor at Tanzania University. At Duke, he has been a member of the Undergraduate Faculty Council, the Student Contacts Committee, and the University Religious Council. He has done field research in the West Indies, Egypt, Uganda, Kenya, the Gambia, Senegal, Botswana, and Lesotho. A number of his professional writings have reported on that research in the Atlantic Quarterly. 

Dr. J. Harris Proctor will be the organist. Also contributing will be members of the Davidson College Wind Ensemble. Friday night's performance is entitled “A Concert in Heaven.” After the concert, there will be a reception honoring Wright in the Chambers Janquet Hall. 

Students Travel to Capital in March for Peace

By JEFF ALLENDER Staff Writer

To demonstrate their concern for the United States' attitude about the Vietnam war, about 25 students left yesterday or will leave today to participate in the November Moratorium in Washington, D.C. Under the leadership of student body president Peter Hobbie, the students took cars and hiked to the nation’s capital where they will stay at the Old Presbyterian Mission House in Alexandria, Virginia, about five miles from the Capitol. 

Plans for the moratorium include a “Death March” which began at 6 p.m. at Arlington National Cemetery. The marchers planned to march past the White House and end at the Capitol building. About 43-45,000 marchers were expected to participate. The number of marchers from each state was supposed to be equal to the number of war deaths plus the number of Vietnamese villages destroyed in the war. The march will last forty hours, with each marcher completing the walk in about two hours. 

This afternoon, students plan to visit the offices of Congressmen to discuss the issue with them. At 8 p.m., a memorial worship service will be held in Washington National Cathedral, featuring speakers such as Dr. Eugene Carson Blake, Coretta Scott King, The Rev. William Sloane Coffin, Father Daniel Berrigan, Bishop Paul Moore, and Robert Moss. Tomorrow, a March on Washington for Immediate Withdrawal from Vietnam is planned, following the same path as the Death March. Assembly for the mass march will begin at 9 a.m. on the Mall area west of the Capitol. At 10 a.m., the March Against Death Memorial Service will be held, followed at 11 by the start of the march. From 2-5 p.m., a program, rally, and folk-rock concert will be sponsored on the Washington Monument grounds. 

Nothing is scheduled on the Davidson campus itself in observance of the Moratorium. According to Hobbie, the reason is that “the October 15 program was very successful, and we shouldn't try to do the same thing every month. Last month we had a program at Davidson; this month it’ll be in Washington; and next month at home.” 

“Students might voluntarily cut their classes if they want,” he said. “The only thing I think we're after in the moratorium plans,” commented Hobbie, “is for the President, with his commitment to the ‘silent majority,’ to hear the voice of a very large group of our society opposing the war—and I really doubt that this group is a minority.”

WHY IS THIS MAN SMILING?

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. gives blood during this week’s blood drive.

Rusk’s Fraternity Brother Leads Anti-Vietnam March

By BOB DUNHAM Editor-In-Chief

A fraternity brother and classmate of Dean Rusk, Davidson alumnus Stewart Meachum has gained national prominence, but in a slightly different method from that of his distinguished contemporary. Meachum will be in the national spotlight this weekend as he directs the efforts of the New Mobilization Committee in the march on Washington. The militant organization to end the Vietnam war has appeared on national television throughout the week and will personally lead a number of the activities in Washington tonight and tomorrow. 

The role of militant leader is one which seemed unlikely for Meachum in his student years at Davidson. While here, he was president of the Red and Black Quakers, a member of the Y, a captain in the Davidson ROTC, and described as a quiet, unassuming type. He was an English major and also an assistant in Bible from Birmingham, Ala. Like Rusk, he was a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity. When he left Davidson, he appeared to be following the path that a number of his classmates took, that of the ministry, as he enrolled in Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. 

He received his degree from Union in 1954 and served as pastor of a Birmingham church for several years. After that, however, his career became unusually colorful. He joined the theology school of the Quaker and soon became active in the American Friends Service Committee. Active in labor movements, he served for eight years with the National Labor Relations Board in Washington, as labor advisor to the commander of U.S. Occupation Forces in Korea, and with the U.S. Department of Labor. From 1951 to 1955, he was with the Methodist Board of World Missions and associate secretary of World Council of Christian Literature in New York. In 1957, he became active with the American Friends and served as director of the Labor International Affairs program for the committee. In 1959, he became sole director of the international affairs program of the Foreign Service committee. 

He assumed his leading role of pacifist during the early ‘60s, when he became Peace Education Secretary. He has published a number of articles, several for the “Christian Century.” He recently added the New Mobilization Committee to End the War to his Quaker activities and has become the principal spokesman in the current protests. This week, the NMC advocated making the weekend rally an active protest and received official city permission to wind the peace parade through Washington.