(Staff Photos by Weems)

FAULK STRETCHES FOR POINT
Senior leads tennis team’s season hopes.

Army Coach Top Choice As Holland, Conboy Quit
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

Several developments in the naming of a head basketball coach for Davidson occurred over the past week as certain names were dropped from contention for the position and others were added to the list of possibilities.

Perhaps the biggest occurrence was the announcement that both Davidson assistant coaches, Terry Holland and Jerry Conboy, would not be available for the head coaching position. Holland, an assistant under Lefty Driesell at Davidson for the last five years, will join Driesell at Maryland. Holland made the decision to go to Maryland only after waiting as long as he possibly could for the Davidson head coach to be named. Driesell had offered the position at Maryland to Holland soon after he had accepted the Terp head coaching job.

The only Davidson graduate given a chance of being named as Driesell’s replacement, Holland was a member of the Davidson teams during the Hetzel era. In his senior year, he led the nation in field goal percentage. As a coach, Holland was popular with both the players and the fans. Several of the outstanding Wildcat basketballers came to Davidson as a result of Holland's recruiting.

Shortly before Holland announced his intention to go to Maryland, the players on the next year’s basketball team said that they would rather have Holland as head coach than any other known possibility.

Conboy, a Davidson assistant since 1967, decided early this week to accept the position as head coach of Point Park College in Pittsburgh, Pa. Considered by many to be the “brains” of the successful Davidson basketball program, Conboy, like Holland, could wait no longer for Davidson officials to name their head coach, so he decided to join Park Point's expanding program.

Conboy graduated from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, and as the only Northerner on the staff greatly aided Davidson's northern recruiting. Before coming to Davidson, Conboy in nine seasons as a high school coach had compiled a 189-40 record, including two state championships. Besides acting as an assistant coach, Conboy was coach for the Wildkittens, the freshman team.

Along with the two Davidson assistants, two head coaches are no longer being mentioned for the head coaching job. Vanderbilt's Roy Skinner and Bill Foster of Rutgers were both considered to have strong chances for the position a week ago, but now appear to be out of the running.

It had been rumored for some time that a professional coach had added his name to the list of those interested in the Davidson position, but until last week it had been nothing more than rumor. Over the past week, however, it appeared that Cincinnati Royal head coach Ed Jucker had applied for the job. Jucker, however, refused to verify or deny his interest.

The most-publicized addition to the list of candidates was Army head coach Bob Knight, who now appears to be the top candidate for the job. Knight visited the campus last weekend and talked to Davidson officials. A local radio station learned of Knight's visit and began to report that the Army coach had been offered Davidson's vacant head coaching job. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of Davidson, denied that any offer had been made to anyone, including Knight. Knight himself refused to confirm or deny the report.

At Army, Knight has distinguished himself, despite being limited to comparatively short ball players. His teams have been successful, playing a deliberate offense and tenacious defense. This past season the Cadets under Knight won 20 regular season games while losing only five, and were ranked first in major colleges in defense. Army went all the way to the NIT semifinals, beating South Carolina in the process.

The Davidsonian
April 4, 1969
Page Five

Tennis Team Splits Six Matches As Faulk Sparks Improved Play
By STEVE NEWSOME
Sports Writer

Led by number one player Woody Faulk, Davidson's tennis team began showing signs of former brilliance in matches the past two weeks as the improving netters polished off three successive opponents while falling three times. Faulk, a senior and captain of the squad, exhibited consistent play as Hope College, Wooster College, and Indiana State University became the latest Wildcat victims. Davidson met Harvard yesterday.

These victories came after the netters had dropped home matches to Amherst College and East Stroudsburg College. Faulk was beaten for only the second time this year last Wednesday as the top ‘Cat fell 6-2, 6-0 to Rick Steketee of Amherst. However, Harlan Day and Al Varner won their matches, along with Day and Pat Whalen in doubles as Davidson lost 6-3. East Stroudsburg also proved a tough competitor as the Wildcats fell 7-2 last Friday. Faulk and Day were the only winners for Coach Harry Fogleman.

Then Wednesday, MIT topped Davidson as the Wildcats won only two singles matches. Last weekend brought better fortunes as the netters disposed of Indiana State 7-2 Saturday. Wooster was beaten 7-1 Monday and Hope fell 7-2 Tuesday.

Coach Fogleman had high praise for Faulk. “He’s been the team leader we've needed,” the veteran coach observed. “He's improved tremendously and has been a spark for the other guys.”

A fifth-year student, this is only Faulk's third season of playing varsity tennis. Freshmen weren't eligible to participate in varsity sports when he enrolled. As a sophomore, Faulk took the conference championship as number six seed. He spent his junior year in Germany. While there, the net star decided to change his major, necessitating a fifth year in school. Last year he again won the conference championship, this time as number four seed. This season, in the number one position vacated by George Berner, Faulk has done what Fogleman terms an admirable job. “He's played well the whole year, even in his two losses,” Fogleman noted.

The other loss Faulk sustained came at the hands of Howard Hunt of Furman, who was second to Berner in last year’s tournament. Besides his skill on the court, Faulk is an excellent student. A pre-med major, he plans to enter Baylor Medical School in the fall. “He’s an excellent leader for the team, very coachable, and helps the other guys a lot,” Fogleman explained. “Woody talks to the other boys and keeps us going.”

Overall, the team has had problems, and after Wednesday's loss to MIT, sported a 3-6 record. But, as Faulk has said, the squad will improve as the season progresses, and he is confident that more wins are on the way for the Davidson netters.

Hopes High In Track, Golf, Rugby: Slade Paces Baseballers To Wins
By A. W. TURNER JR. and MARK HODGES

Despite losses by all three Wildcat teams last week, season's hopes for the golf, track, and rugby squads still run high. Meanwhile, Davidson's baseball team enjoyed surprising success.

In their first competition, the Palmetto Invitational, Davidson's linksters did not fare too well. The team finished well behind the winning Wake Forest team and did not place among the top squads. All-American Mike Spann, Cary Hite, and Doug Clark led the Wildcat effort.

Although again losing, the golfers played much better in their second appearance, dropping two three-point decisions to The Citadel and Furman in a tri-college match. Again Spann, Hite, and Clark played well, with Spann sparking the team with a 75. However, it was the sudden fine showing of a non-letterman, Toby Dawson, that most pleased Coach Tom Scott. Dawson fired a 78, second best for the Wildcats.

“We're still improving,” said Scott. “We haven't been playing long, but we're looking better in every appearance. By the time the Southern Conference Tournament comes around, we'll be contenders.” Scott picked Furman, a school which subsidizes golf, to be the team most likely to upset Davidson's attempt to become the first Southern Conference school to win four consecutive team championships.

Pikas Top Phi Delts With Distance Wins
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

In the usual exciting IMAC track meet, the Pikas edged the Phi Delts 27-26½ for first place honors. The Kappa Sigs placed third with a final score of 23 points.

The meet

x x x Sporttopics x x x

William Brown, Davidson’s defending handball champion who recently led the Kappa Sigs to the IMAC handball championship, added a new trophy to his collection over the spring break. Brown, a junior from Richmond, Va., trounced Mickey Brock of the University of Tennessee to take the first Southeastern Regional Intercollegiate Handball Tournament title. Due to his championship, Brown advanced tothe national collegiate matches last weekend, where he lost in the first round to the eventual champion. Tom Couch, Davidson’s trainer and jack-of-all-trades in the athletic department, has turned down an offer to join the Georgia Tech football training staff. Couch, the trainer at Davidson for the last five years, said that he felt the time isn’t right to make such a change.

According to the final edition of Gordon Wise’s ratings for the difficulties of the schedules played by collegiate basketball teams, 96 squads played tougher schedules than Davidson. The influential rating system, based on the ability and performance of the opponents each major collegiate team faced during the season, found that Wisconsin played the most difficult schedule.

Davidson students will be in for a treat when eight of the world’s top-ranked female tennis players perform here next Tuesday afternoon. The girls, all scheduled to perform in the Charlotte Invitational Tennis Tournament, will represent the best tennis from four countries. Judith Salone and Astrid Suurbek, ranked second and fourth in Holland, Kristina Sanberg and Margaretta Standberg, highly rated in Sweden, and Australia’s second and fifth-ranked players, Kerry Melville and Karen Krantzcke, will join two of America’s best, Mary Anne Issel and Stephanie De Fina, for the matches.

One of Maryland’s best prep wrestlers, Rusty Winchester, has decided to attend Davidson and add his abilities to the growing Wildcat wrestling program. Winchester, who won his district championship in the 130-pound weight class this year, was called by Davidson wrestling coach Charlie Parker “a real fine prospect, a fine addition to our team.”

Wayne Huckel, Davidson's athlete-scholar, has been awarded a scholarship of $1,000 by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Huckel, a starter for the Wildcat basketball team the last three years, is the first Davidson student to receive such a grant from the NCAA. Ranked 12th in his class, he averaged around 12 points a game in his career, and at one time was considered an All-America prospect.

It was a three-team race from the beginning, as other teams participated only sparsely. The Pikas led the meet by 1½ points going into the final event, the 880 relay. They assured the victory with a third-place finish in the relay as the Delts finished second to the Sigs. The strength of the Pikas lay mainly in the distance events, where they scored 15 of their 27 points. In the three-quarter mile run, Pika Billy Pierce pulled away from Independent Phil Ray on the last lap to win. Jim Upchurch was third for the Pikas. The Pikas finished 1, 2 in the other distance event, the 660-yard run. Fred Lowrance grabbed the lead early in the race and won going away. Pierce was second to Lowrance in the 660.

The Delt points came mostly in the field events, particularly the jumping events. Wayne Huckel and Tony Orsbon placed 1, 2 in the broad jump and Orsbon won the high jump for 13 of the Delts’ points. Three men placed in all events in which they entered in the meet. Mike Kelly of the Kappa Sigs did as well as he possibly could have by winning both the 100 and 220-yard dashes and anchoring the victorious Sig 880 relay team. The Pikas' Billy Pierce placed third in the broad jump in addition to his places in the three-quarter mile and 660-yard runs. The third man to score in three events was Rick Hawarah of the ATO’s, who won the 120-yard low hurdles, placed second in the 440, and was on his team's fourth-place 880 relay team.

The winners of the other individual events were Dave Shepler of the Sig Eps in the 440, Steve Butler of the SAE's in the shot put, and John Harper of the Kappa Sigs in the discus. No records were broken or set in the meet. The next IMAC sport is volleyball, in which round-robin competition begins on Monday.

Spring is now here. The linksters have probably their toughest week coming up. Next week they twice meet powerful Wake Forest, once at Winston Salem and once at Charlotte. The Davidson track team finished a close second in their initial home meet. Appalachian tallied 91½ points to the Wildcats’ 79½. UNC at Charlotte finished third with eight points. Whit Morrow sparked the team with 11 tallies. He ran legs on the winning 440 and mile relay teams, won the 220-yard sprint, and finished second in the 100. Rick Lyon was also impressive, winning the 440 and running legs on both relay teams. Tommy Richardson took a first in the 100 and a second in the 220 and ran a leg in the 440 relay. Ray Sweetenburg broke his own school record in the triple jump with a leap of 46-10 despite finishing second to an Appalachian competitor. Stag Newman ran both the mile and three-mile runs, a grueling task, winning a second and a first in the events. Coach Heath Whittle sighted the sprints as the team’s strongest events and noted a definite weakness in the pole vault. Notable among the absentees in the meet was Steve Kirley, who performs strongly in the field events. The Citadel is the next opponent for the Wildcats on April 12. The next home contest for Davidson will be on April 19, when they are hosts for the Davidson Relays.

The rugby team played games on two successive days last weekend, a feat worthy of the Purple Heart of sports, and performed admirably in each. Against N.C. State, the Wildcats had several opportunities to win the game, including a missed free kick, before falling 8-6. “We controlled the ball the whole game,” said Zack Mobley, the team captain. “I thought we should have won. We did beat them everywhere except on the scoreboard.” The second match, against UNC-CH, was simply a matter of the Davidson team running out of gas. After leading 3-0 at the half, the Wildcats gave up 21 points in the second stanza while they failed to tally. Due to injuries, the Wildcats played the final minutes of the game two men short. However, there was victory in defeat. Mobley noted that the State game marked the first time the rugby team had put any points on the scoreboard. The Davidson team has finished its home schedule. The next match is at Duke on Sunday against one of the nation’s toughest rugby squads. Mobley said that the Blue Devils would be the strongest opponents the Wildcats face all year.

The baseball team, behind the heavy hitting of Gordon Slade, Frank Murphy, and Bruce Widener, matched its total number of wins last year, as the Wildcats downed George Mason and VMI to up their record to three wins against four losses. Slade, whose batting average has been around the .500 mark all year, cracked a homer and a double in the two wins, while team captain Murphy and Widener collected nine hits between them in the victories. The VMI win marked the first time in several years that Davidson has opened its conference schedule with a victory. Coach Tom Stevens cited hitting as being the team’s forte. “We're hitting well enough to win most games. However, our pitching and infield defense could stand some improvement for us to keep on winning.” Stevens particularly praised Slade, despite the fact that the slugger is in a slump of sorts. “A slump for Slade means that he'll only get about one hit a game. He has a good eye, great power, a terrific arm—he can do about everything.” The baseballers get a chance to improve their record tomorrow afternoon on the Davidson diamond when they meet Marietta.

WANTED — Crafts counselors for Christian boys’ summer camp in Maine. Desirable to have proficiency in leather, plastic, and woodwork. Write: Camp Netop, 229 Lorraine Ave., Oreland, Penn., 19075.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub

HUNTERSVILLE-FORD SALES AND SERVICE 875-6547

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM Whar-Rena Marina Highway 73 4 miles from Davidson