Slater Planning Improved Menu

The trustees approved a list of recommendations drawn up by the business office for improvement of the Union Food Service at their meeting on May 9. The recommendations, prompted by the C rating which the cafeteria received earlier this year, are the results of meetings between ARA Slater, students, and the administration. The Slater representatives met with a student food committee and several proposals were drawn up, including setting up a continental breakfast, upgrading the menu, and expanding snack bar service.

Since most students who eat at the Union don’t eat breakfast as it is now served, it was felt that such a continental breakfast arrangement was needed. The breakfast menu will include juice, toast, sweet rolls or doughnuts, and a beverage to be served from the regular breakfast time until around ten o'clock.

The upgraded menus will include not only improving the standard fare, but allowing a student to order a steak or something similar on most nights of the week for a small fee. The snack bar will supplement the present machine service by serving ice cream and milkshakes.

5 Students Join ODE

Omicron Delta Epsilon, a national honor society in economics, has initiated five new members and elected John Hughes president. Initiated were Randy Carter, Danny Coltrane, Robin Gottfried, Fred Lowrance, and John Roe. Dr. James C. Ingram, dean of the graduate school at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, addressed the initiation banquet on “An Economist Views College and University Administration.”

Green Wins Freshman Creative Writing Award

William O. Green of Metairie, Louisiana, became the first winner of the Windley Hall Creative Writing Award for freshmen. John C. Bowles Jr. of Jacksonville, Fla., was designated runner-up. Selected by the vote of the members of the English Department, Green and Bowles were chosen from a group of 18 freshmen whose poetry and prose was collected in the literary magazine, “Inklings,” an annual publication of the Freshman Class. The award was made possible through the generosity of the relatives and friends of R. Windley Hall, a Davidson graduate of the Class of ‘63, whose promising career in writing was cut short by his death Jan. 18, 1967, while he was a graduate student at Vanderbilt University. While at Davidson, Hall majored in English and was a member of the football and swimming teams.

RHC Fines Freshman

A freshman has been fined $21.80 plus an as-yet-undetermined damage assessment when the Cannon House Committee found him guilty of discharging a fire extinguisher. The offense, which carries a maximum penalty of suspension for one term according to Residence Hall Association resident Tom Opie, took place May 2. The fine included $10.80 in janitorial fees, $6 for refilling the extinguisher, and $5 as punishment.

Cook’s Wages

Robert Pyeatt, another member of this student committee, said: “I know of at least two cases where fraternity housemothers threatened their cooks that they better not come to this meeting or they would endanger their jobs.” The contingency of fraternity cooks at the meeting explained to Spencer and Stephenson their specific grievances, wage increases, and peripheral problems such as payroll procedures and unemployment benefits. The rise in taxes and inflation are some of the main reasons that they need a wage increase, the cooks said. The cooks asserted that some of the fraternities have been guilty of poor administration in payroll procedures. For example, this year several cooks had to pay penalties to the Internal Revenue Service because their fraternities failed to pay withholding taxes on time or didn’t pay enough money. Finally, the cooks criticized the employment benefits of the fraternities. In some of the fraternities, they said, there is no compensation for sickness. One cook said that she broke her ankle earlier this year and received no allowance for the time she was off the job. Commenting on the progress made at this meeting, Mrs. India Houston, a cook at Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, said: “It looks doubtful in some respects. Many of the cooks didn’t come to the meeting because of what the housemothers told them. In some respects, I’m hopeful. The ones who were there really spoke up and let President Spencer know how they felt.”

Japan Moves Against Disorders

The Japanese government has designed a program to aid in preventing and restraining the student disorders which have marred Japanese higher education over the past several years. The government’s suggestions include telling all universities that it is the police rather than the administration who shall decide on intervention in case of disorders, ordering state-run universities to report to the Ministry of Education whenever their campuses appear to be imperiled, and cutting the budgets of universities now involved in disputes. However, the head of prestigious Tokyo University has said that he will decide whether or not to allow police to preserve order on campus, opposing the government decision.

Students Invade U-Va. Faculty Meeting

About thirty-five students at the University of Virginia entered a closed faculty meeting until one of their number was allowed to speak. The student who spoke told the faculty of the college of arts and sciences that he was leaving not because of a threat of suspension but because the students' action had failed to gain any response from the faculty, continuing, according to the speaker, a lack of communication that had existed for 150 years.

Presbyterians Ask End To Cuban Embargo

The General Assembly of the United Presbyterian Church this week called on the Nixon Administration to lift the embargo against Cuba and restore diplomatic relations. The Cuban resolution was part of a longer Latin American resolution which asked “immediate exercise of restraint and redirection of power” by the United States in Latin America. It is the United Presbyterian Church which Southern Presbyterians last month asked to consider merger. Davidson is affiliated with the Southern church.

Union Porch Site Of Auction Block

An auction of student possessions will be held Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. on the Union porch, according to Sam Boyte, assistant director of the Union. Receipts will be returned to the owner of the sold article. A minimum price may be asked for the article donated. Movies are scheduled for several nights during exam week, Boyte said, but the Union will not be open all night because of a lack of money.

Changes At Davidson

(Continued From Page 1)

Of course, you could always get a fair sun tan on a Spring day if you were lucky enough to have a seat in front of one of the eight large windows that have been bricked up, if you didn’t die of heat exhaustion first. It was evident that compulsory chapel would have to go after chairs conducive to sleeping were installed. More than anything else, the social scene at Davidson has changed radically. Leaving for a weekend was a rarity for most students my freshman year due to Saturday classes and Vespers. Now the campus is nearly vacant by Thursday evening. Honor Court members were honor-bound to turn in any student they saw drinking on campus during our first year. Assuredly the present policy toward drinking is much healthier as I recall those rides back from some of the parties I went to. Of course, there are some things that never change, like the bad dates, Chalmers Davidson, and the Slater Food Service, but some of the staunchest traditions have yielded, especially in Athletics. Lefty Driesell was becoming a tradition, but he’s now gone. Losing in football was a tradition, but next year we should have the best team ever. The baseball team beat Clemson this season.

Partin Has New Book

Dr. Malcolm Partin, assistant professor of history, has just completed a book entitled “Waldock-Rousseau, Combes, and The Church.” The book, published by the Duke University Press, studies the anti-clerical movement in France in the 19th and early 20th centuries against the Roman Catholic Church. Partin maintains that clericalism was primarily political and politics is the main focus of his book. He did most of his research while in Paris asa Fulbright Fellow in 1961-62. Memories of Davidson will always be around in certain different lights. The water fountain that doesn't work near the E.H. Little Building and the little park behind the football stadium that no one ever uses kind of stick in the mind. The words “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” which few know the meaning of and Erwin Lodge where no one ever goes will probably remain a mystery. Davidson is certainly a different place. Maybe it’s just as well.

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY
Watch Repairs
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.

International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

A REVIEW
By J. GILL HOLLAND
Asst. Professor of English

The first issue of “The Miscellany: A Davidson Review" under the general editorship of George House gives us much to praise in the way of poetry and make-up as Davidson College's literary magazine. House sensibly provides enough poetry by the featured poets of each section to read into them a little and get a sense of their own idiom. Peter Wild won first prize in the “Miscellany” poetry contest, and the generous helping of lines allows us to be more generous towards his contribution before we are through. In his first two poems “Lying Down in the Oats and Wheat" and “On Doing the Thing” the imagery and movement of the lines are too facile—as if there had been no struggle with the medium of language. In the others though we sense the excitement of the unexpected: “around the corner/is a crocodile/smoking a cigar”; the emergence of the warrior in “Swan Mountain”; and the antic disposition of “Rabbits.” Here the logic of fantasy is at work.

The contribution of Ken Rice offers more variety and lyrical range than any other five poems in the volume. In “Rafferty’s Prayer” there is this directness of address: “God Please don't send... Send down... God! I'll lay... jump...” In “No Contrast” there is an indirectness which gives the poem quite a different tonal key. Along with its photographic play of light and line there is an obliqueness in the vision of the speaker coming from the precise use of certain verbals and syntactical subordination. In “The Baptist” there is still another kind of verbal action: “He struck... He tested... Pushed... And brought them back...” Here the thrust of the syntax helps enlarge this character to prophetic size.

Sam Gwynn's contribution in poetry is notable for the virtuosity we have come to expect from him, although the particular virtues of the present poems are more powerfully at work in last year’s “Miscellany” (for example “Byrd's Eden”) and in those that won this year's first prize in the Vereen Bell competition. Here the traditional verse forms harness certain resources of the language and the voice works back and forth and with and against regular meter. Perhaps in the pieces before us now we sense the comforts of meter without all of the expected power.

The principle of representing each poet's idiom amply which aided an appreciation of Peter Wild should have been followed in the cases of J. S. Winkler and N. Ramachandran. After one good poem by each we want to see several more of the sobering comedy of the last stanza of “In the Summer Colony” and more of the incantation of “Agony and Relief.” In the latter the repetition of phrases in more than a merely representational fashion becomes a ritual of language that opens the inner spaces, and more of this would have helped us see how repetition and inversion can push words towards dream in this desert seascape.

The rhetoric of the following poem by Mark Robinson is more familiar in its complexity. “Roses” is full of sounds in the vacuum... a man's last cry: it is concentrated by the images of “ballet,” “leap,” and “skinning.” “Statement of Fact,” a shaggy piece of tombstone verse, is the quiet explosion awaiting us at the top of the next page; and after that is “So Very Long Ago,” which is reminiscent of Dylan Thomas’ “Fern Hill” in the best sense of the word where the play of wit laces nostalgia.

Except for the fantastic logic of “A Letter to Alice,” a fine contribution by Joel Keys, there is a sad falling off in the fiction. There is a sort of textbook appeal in the cataclysmic or post-cataclysmic subject matter of “Scot on the Rocks” and “Catharsis,” but the characters were not interesting and the narrative not suspenseful. But pen-names can be colorful and are said to protect the innocent.

George Garrett, when he was on the campus to make the Vereen Bell awards, remarked that the level of creative writing on this campus was as high as any he had seen on any campus and that he had seen many with high-powered, expensive writing programs. The contributions in this issue of the Davidson “Miscellany” by writers here seem superior to most of the others: and the saying is, an expert is anybody over ten miles away. By the way, perhaps the title “The Davidson Miscellany” would be easier too.

Who's Nothing Taps At Hattie's
From Our Wire Service

Davidson's chapter of Who's Nothing met between 8 and 11 p.m. Monday to select new members and make initial plans for the 68-69 year. The new members selected were as follows: seniors Sam “ding-dong” Davis, John “yo-yo” Hanselman, and John “Gorilla” Staughter; juniors Karl Bauknight, Hunter Rice, Bart Walker, Dick Young, “Hog Body” Dwight Hale, Dave “AA” Thompson, Garret Nicholson, Randy Jones, Doug Cook, and Joe “Worthless” Lansinger; sophomores Henry Marrow, Teddy Ravenel, Bryan Peterson, and Ken Totherow. Also named were Richardson Scholar Mike Lunn and faculty members Dr. Karl Garrison and Homer Smith. To keep up with the current progress at Davidson, Franklin Anderson and Stagg Newman were reluctantly accepted as extended rushees. The initiation party will be next Thursday at Hattie's and pledges are encouraged to contact pledge trainer Doug Crisp.

Several citations were awarded at the meeting to former members. Lefty Driesell was given the Charles H. Goodykoontz Memorial Award for un-achievement above and beyond the call of duty for his role in taking a new Thunderbird to Maryland. Dave Moser was given the Who's Nothing safe driver of the year award. One hundred percent bidding was brought to the question under due process, and it was decided 19 to 34 that “undutifully such a menace was and shall be irrelevant and irreverent to a group or organization such as that which might, considerably, initiate into the environment in which we are now, and futuristically engaged, proximitous to the reality of a mechanized, indefatigable society.” (sic).

Just before Hattie asked the meeting to adjourn, Senior Reverend Tom Crawford, who called, organized, and conducted the meeting was reprimanded for his leadership activities. It was decided that in the future to prevent such happenings, no officers would be elected and each member would share equally in the leadership of Who's Nothing.

Election Of Cheerleaders Held Today In Chambers

Elections for next year's cheerleaders will be held today from 8 a.m. till 3 p.m. in Chambers Building. Jim Hinshaw, a member of the Senate Elections Committee, is in charge. Each rising class is to choose three leaders for 1969-70. The incoming freshman class is to choose theirs next fall. Sophomore candidates are Bill Lear, Sid Moody, John Cutchin, Mike Simpson, Vance Simpson, Frank Soos, Julian Quattlebaum, Bill Powell and Bill Green. Running for junior cheerleaders are Jim Crouse, Will Ravenel, Jim Blair, Charlie Brown and Jack Trotter. Bob Stubbs, Tad Lowdermilk and John Huggins are signed up to run for senior cheerleaders. The cheerleaders will choose a head cheerleader and someone to wear the Wildcat head for next year after they are elected.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496

HUNTERSVILLE-FORD
SALES AND SERVICE
875-6547
Open ‘til 8 p.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub
MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Famous Brand Clothing and Accessories for the Fashion Minded Pace Setting Traditionalist. Just arrived: New Trousers, Long Sleeve Shirts with French cuffs and new Knit Shirts.
—Mooresville