The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Domino Theory?

PAGE TWO
OCTOBER 17, 1969

Moratorium

At exactly 0513, the 18th of April, 1906, a cow was standing at 123°20’ West Longitude, 37°58’ North Latitude — somewhere between the main barn and the milking shed on the old Shafter Ranch in California, minding her own business. Suddenly the earth shook, the skies trembled, and when it was all over, there was nothing showing of the cow above ground but a bit of her tail sticking up.

For the student of change, the Shafter cow is a sort of symbol of our gentle thoughts as cows are likely to have, while huge forces outside her ken built up all at once in a great movement that changed the configuration of the earth, and destroyed a city, and swallowed her up... if we do not learn to understand and guide the great forces of change at work in our world today, we may find ourselves like the Shafter cow, swallowed up by the vast upheavals in our way of life.

—from “The Dynamics of Change” Kaiser Aluminum Corp., 1967

We commend the Sigma Chi’s for the courage and initiative they demonstrated in breaking with their national organization. The Machi’s going local may be the start of major changes on the Patterson fraternity court. Most of Davidson’s fraternities have studied the possibility of going local, but until now everyone has been reluctant to be the first to act.

The standard argument against national affiliation has been that national benefits cost more than they're worth. For about $100—more or less, depending upon the fraternity—a student receives a membership card, a lifetime subscription to the national fraternity magazine, access to ritual initiation, and the “prestige” of the name. Most fraternities also grant visiting privileges to other chapters.

The case for national affiliation has been basically: “If we go local we'll be killed in the rush.” Until now, this fear has kept everyone from taking the first step. What effects the Sigma Chi action will have on the Davidson campus only time will tell. The Machi’s, indeed, may be killed in rush. Conversely, other fraternities may follow the Machi lead and disaffiliate.

To be sure, going local will not solve the inherent evils of the fraternity system, nor will it affect the fraternity’s basic strength—providing its members with a social outlet. The dropping of two Greek letters and a night’s ritual will not affect the “brotherhood” which may or may not exist within a fraternity. Unfortunately, no matter what happens to Patterson Court the dejection felt by those rejected by the system and the more lasting and more important problem of providing those students with a social outlet will remain unchanged.

The Pedagogy Of Sex

In a remarkable display of planning the administration has initiated its long-anticipated (and sometimes dreaded) series on drugs, sex, and alcohol. It is remarkable, largely because the College has undertaken the task of educating a not-so-uneducated group of freshmen on some rather difficult subjects, and because they have done an admirable job of bringing in the experts.

When the course was proposed last year with the adoption of the rather liberal regulations on alcohol, many persons marked it off as a failure from the outset. Imagine. Trying to “teach” members of the country-club set about the problems of alcohol, or attempting to offer sex education to a group of students who have already discovered their sexuality.

The initial vision, which was not without some past foundation, was that the courses would be in the form of the chapel sermons of the past, with the speaker having graduated from Davidson and one of three seminaries which maintain speakers’ bureaus. But the realization of the idea has been far more gratifying. It has been realistic. It has been successful.

As far as one can go in searching out the “experts,” the college has succeeded in gathering a group of highly-qualified individuals to provide the departure points in personal behavior evaluations. As ridiculous as it may sound, THE DAVIDSONIAN urges attendance at the program provided... not because you do not already know, but because you may not know enough.

The Davidson Mets

It has just been one of those years. First it was the Cubs, and then the Mets. Now it’s us. There’s good ol’ Gordon Slade, and Kelly and Hannen. And Mike Mikolay-What’s-’is-name. Us. Davidson College. Football. What is this? There’s the coach about whom they used to say, “he holds an Ivy League record.” Now they say, “He’s Davidson’s coach.”

It’s a long road to Orlando, but then, nobody ever thought Shea Stadium would be in the running today either.

SDS Disavows Rudd, Other ‘Subversives’

ED. NOTE: The following was received as a press release from SDS National Headquarters.

On Wednesday, October 1, a group of provocateurs claiming to be from SDS attacked students and teachers at Boston English High School. In Detroit, nine women broke into an exam at McComb Community College declaring that it was over—and the students should listen to them. When two students got up to leave, they were attacked with karate.

These actions were all the work of a group of police-agents and hate-the-people lunatics who walked out of SDS at the June convention because their ideas had been rejected. Led nationally by Mark Rudd, this gang calling itself “SDS” and “Revolutionary Youth” has absolutely nothing to do with SDS! They've been around the country running all attack-the-people! No chapter supports them!

Conditions in SDS schools around the country are rotten. Many high school students have rebelled, fighting to change things. Working people face steadily deteriorating conditions, and are fighting back harder and harder, as witnessed by the tremendous increase in strikes and wildcats over the last few years.

The bankers and big businessmen who run the country are using Rudd's clique for two purposes. First, to divert people so that they won't fight back anymore. Second, to discredit SDS. Big businessmen and this gang are two sides of a coin. In their fight for high profits, big businessmen hurt the people with low wages, lousy working conditions, schools that oppress both students and teachers, and the war in Vietnam. The provocateurs attack the people so everyone will forget big businessmen. This is the oldest trick in the book.

The ultimate attack on the people planned by these provocateurs was to take place in Chicago October 8-11. Built under slogans like “Day of Rage” and “The Time is Right for Fighting in the Streets,” for the purpose of “bringing the war home,” these demonstrations mean planned attacks on the people or, as these fascists put it in their newspaper (The Fire Next Time): “We're going to Chicago to fight who lays a pig: a pig cop, a pig anyone.”

Student Bewails Police Brutality

To the Editor:

The adoption of the Code of Responsibility theoretically symbolized the end of an unenlightened era of dichotomy. This document implicitly affirmed the recognition by all members of the “college community” that we are all here for the same major purposes. And at last the picture of the autonomous, dictatorial administration in a constant conflict of interests with the rebellious, irresponsible student body was proved to be a figment of our imagination. Thus we merged our spirits —E pluribus unum. A “college community” all dedicated to the same goals.

Because of this theoretical merger it is also implicit in the Code that every member of the “college community” is liable to the Code, and thus is expected to conduct himself “with responsible maturity.” The only remnant of the old dichotomy lies in the first paragraph of the section entitled “Philosophy of Discipline” in which it is written that the non-student members of the “college community” are subject to a separate judiciary than are student members. A fact which seems incongruous but understandable.

What I am arriving at by this review of past history is this: last Sunday an “agent of the administration” (that is, one of the security officers who is by definition a member of the “college community”) conducted himself in an apparently irresponsible manner (part of which included driving through a hedge in an apparent attempt to run over a dog at which he had become angered). As in any case there are extenuating circumstances; nonetheless the outward evidence would certainly warrant investigation and if that investigation proved theevidence to be as it appears some measures need to be taken. I feel personally that the students have taken the Code most seriously as is indicated by the small number of infractions brought before the Regulations Court. If we were serious from both ends when we deemed ourselves a "college community," it should be interesting to see whether the non-student members of said community are willing to hold up their end of the bargain by considering us all as members of the same unit, subject to the same expectations of conduct or if this whole matter will be swept under that proverbial carpet and promptly forgotten.

Mike Elliott '71
Davidson College

and be too burdened, teacher, or a pig soldier." In practice, their “affinity groups” have made it clear that they see the people as pigs—that they plan to fight everyone in sight! Since they make the people the enemy, they're up against tremendous odds—and they're building for this action saying that it won't be a success unless some of them are killed! This demonstration is a last-ditch effort by these provocateurs to divert people from the real source of their oppression and to discredit SDS! No one should go to it; it's a police trap! People will see through this trick. No dwindling gang of cops and the few they mislead will hide the facts. The big businessmen who run this country and who benefit from the war in Vietnam are responsible for the rotten conditions in the schools, in the cities, and on the job. SDS supports students’, parents’, and teachers’ fights for better conditions in the schools; and SDS supports working people's struggle against their bosses. We will continue to fight university expansion which throws working people out of their homes. We oppose the Vietnam war, demanding No Negotiation—Immediate Withdrawal. We are backing the demands of campus workers, building an alliance between these workers and students. This tiny gang of cops, fools, and hate-the-people provocateurs has nothing to do with SDS.

SDS National Headquarters
Boston, Mass.

Riner Knocks / Recommends

To the Editor:

In the middle of all the confusion, a class of 290 young Davidson men are still in wonder as to what the future holds in the form of educational trivia which must be memorized and recited back to earn that infamous Davidson diploma. It does not take one with extreme insight to see that this year’s Sophomore class is in a crisis, and it's a serious one.

In the past year, there has been a lot of talk about area exams. Some have been concerned with their objectives, but one must admit that the talk has centered around how to get by them in the least painful method. Davidson has come out with the idea that a Davidson diploma should represent self-study, while attendance in class remains mandatory. Why? One cannot learn without lectures and hand-waving performances of his professors! Yet on the other hand, the greatest part of your education, says Davidson, will come from your own ability at self-study. Does anyone volunteer to correlate the two?

Uncle Wart
By David Sweatt

Percival’s Remover

What's Who's Who?

“Who is ‘Who’s Who’?” quizzed a Who’s Who, whom I shall not name here. The answer is more revealing than we might expect for a nationwide selection of “outstanding students.” The result of the selection is a process of forming an annual volume called “Who’s Who Among Students In American Universities and Colleges.” The originator and perpetrator of the whole program is the Randall Publishing Company of Tuscaloosa, Alabama. That's right, it’s a profit-making venture that gives Davidson a certain number of names to send in every year. The publication has a rather infamous history. First, it aggravated the University of Alabama by renting a post office box at the university’s postal station and implying on its stationery some affiliation with the University of Alabama. The national association of deans of men recognized the organization as a shady one, with the result that a number of the best schools in the country stopped cooperating. 

The Who’s Who still exists and has prospered. In the early fifties, the publishers faced a lawsuit for their activities. They lost the suit—brought by the A. N. Marquis & Co., publishers of “Who’s Who in America”—and the Randall Company’s letterhead now carries a note to the effect that theirs is not the Marquis publication. But while the College certainly should applaud this small, struggling company’s All-American success story, it needn’t feel obligated to aid a commercial experiment that appears to have “made it” on its own merits, or whatever. That is, if the College can establish its benefits to be worthwhile—recognizing the commercial nature of the transaction—then it is certainly justified in continuing to contribute its few inches to each auspicious annual edition. But when the College agrees to go along with the annual selection, it does so under the publishing company’s rule that each school gets a certain number of places to fill—no more or no less. This year Davidson was given nineteen spots. Even, therefore, if we attach certain values to some sort of elitist idea of picking out those worthy of note, we are left cold knowing that too few or too many have been included merely to satisfy a quota.

Maybe Davidson needs some sort of honorary to designate those who can’t meet the academic requirements of ODK, to recognize those who have not held “positions of importance” in the student body. But do we need a small publishing company in Tuscaloosa, Alabama to give us directions in the matter? It is true that the Davidson students’ names appear in the annual volume along with the names of students from loads of schools in the country. The book includes many of the country’s best schools and many of its least-known. By the same token, many of the country’s better-known schools are not included—Harvard, Amherst, Cornell, Oberlin to name a few. Finally, the purveyors of the Who’s Who production offer a backstage benefit for the chosen nominees. (The colleges ‘nominate’ and the editors ‘accept’ the nominations.) A “free certificate” which serves “as documentary evidence of this honor and in recognition of your accomplishments.” Also, a reference placement service which according to letters reproduced in a company brochure helped lucky nominees to gain such positions as public school teacher, dining hall food supervisor, FBI agent, and apprentice cattle buyer.

If this seems like deals, it’s nothing compared to the company’s special offer to this year’s nominees for purchasing this year’s volume: “If you order right now, you may take advantage of the pre-publication discount price of $15.00 (After publication the price will be $17.50).” Anyone want to buy a book?

Phil Riner '72
Davidson College