LIGHTFOOT SLATED FOR FROLICS (See Page Four!)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1969

SOUTH'S AFFECTION CAN'T MOVE MALOY (See Page Two)

NUMBER NINETEEN

Martin Tells Of Duke Police Riot, Comedy Of Errors

By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Asst. Managing Editor

Joe Martin, assistant to the dean in charge of student affairs at Duke University, gave his eye-witness account of the Duke riot to Davidson students Monday night. Speaking in the Student Union at the Open End, Martin presented a rough timetable of events as he saw them and added that Duke is likely to have more trouble.

Friday morning, Duke University awoke to find that black students had occupied the Allen Building on the Duke campus. They stayed there throughout the day, ignoring efforts at negotiation on the part of the administration. Although the move for negotiations appeared fruitless, the administration hesitated to act because of the racial implications inherent in the situation. Finally, though, at 3:30 in the afternoon, an ultimatum was issued to the black students that they had one hour to leave the building. State and local police were alerted.

At 4 o'clock, a faculty meeting was called to consider the ultimatum. Despite some violent disagreement and a walkout staged by some of the younger faculty members, the ultimatum was overwhelmingly endorsed. The police, however, were hesitant to move in. By 4:30 they still had not arrived at the Allen Building. But in the meantime, a crowd of several thousand students, local Klansmen, and leftist groups had gathered.

By 5:30, for reasons not clearly known, the black students decided to leave the building. The doors had been locked, however, and the students were penned inside for ten minutes until security officers could obtain administrative approval to unlock the doors.

Johnston Retires To Be Honors College Chief, Kenan Professor

Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty since 1958, has been named the college's first Kenan Professor and dean of the new Honors College. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of Davidson, said that Johnston “has asked to be relieved of his responsibilities as dean of the faculty when a successor is available. This may be as late as the summer of 1970.” By action of the executive committee of the trustees, Johnston will be given the title of Kenan Professor effective July 1.

Spencer said, “The professorship was endowed by a grant to Davidson last year from the William R. Kenan Jr. Charitable Trust, to support a teacher ‘whose enthusiasm for learning, commitment to teaching, and interest in students will make a notable contribution to (the) college community,’ according to stipulations of the grant.

“For me, Frontis Johnston has always been and will always be one of Davidson's great men,” said Spencer. “As teacher and as dean he has had a highly significant and far-reaching impact on the life of this college. It is fitting that he receive Davidson's most distinguished professorship.

“Though I have accepted with reluctance and regret his decision to give up his duties as dean of the faculty, I am pleased that he is willing to become dean of the Honors College,” the president added. “In this capacity, he will develop and direct an important element of the new curriculum, which was designed under his leadership.”

The new curriculum plans call for “the establishment of an Honors College for a limited number (perhaps 35 to 50) of students of exceptional ability and maturity. Students admitted to this program will be relieved of all regular requirements and their individual academic programs will be specified by the faculty of the Honors College.” Spencer said that the program is expected to begin operation in September 1970.

Johnston was born in 1908 in Summerville, S.C., and graduated from Davidson in 1930, receiving a PhD in American history from Yale in 1938. In 1935 he came to Davidson as associate professor of history and was promoted to full professor in 1941. He has served as president of the N.C. Literary and Historical Association, president of the Historical Society of N.C., president of the Southern Conference, a member of the council of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (See JOHNSTON, Page 4).

By 5:35 the black students had been released and had marched off through the campus with a few hundred followers. The crowd largely dispersed, and security personnel occupied the building. The police arrived at 5:40. The Durham force had an anti-riot device which Martin described as looking like “half vacuum cleaner and half ray gun.” As they occupied positions around the Allen Building, the police and their machine, which emitted a loud, rather bizarre noise, began to attract a crowd. Martin himself contacted the State Patrol and, after he had told them the state of the situation, the patrol obligingly left the campus. The Durham police, clustered around their machine in the midst of a crowd of students, could not be reached.

Despite a short rock-throwing incident, the crowd showed no hostility toward the police, according to Martin. For ten minutes everyone just sat around and watched the throbbing machine. Students coming to and from dinner joined the crowd of onlookers which at that time numbered about 4 thousand. Many were sitting on the grass, reading newspapers. At around 6:10, two girls walked out of the crowd. One stood in front of the growling machine while the other one approached a policeman, stroked his shoulder, and started whispering in his ear. (This is known as ‘harassing the police.’)

Suddenly, the anti-riot gun belched out a tremendous volume of pepper-gas, a mildly irritating, offensive anti-crowd gas. The students, taken by surprise and suddenly engulfed in a thick cloud, panicked. The crowd broke and ran; the police gave chase. The gas, drifting into surrounding dorms, forced everyone out of the dorms and into the developing melee.(Many As Faculty Dean = t | ru _ , a .é me! (Staff Photo by Davidson)

STUDENT SERVES MEAL
State health requirements met.

Faculty Votes Down of the buildings were uninhabitable for as long as six hours.) The police shot tear gas into the crowds of students, and students volleyed empty tear gas canisters back at the police. In a short time, the entire area was engulfed with smoke. There were various reports of police brutality in the ensuing bedlam, which lasted nearly an hour. Very few black students were involved. Several students took refuge from marauding police in the Duke chapel, located several hundred yards from the Allen Building. Policemen shot tear gas into the chapel, but the students escaped through a back exit. One newspaperman was arrested when he tried to stop a policeman who was beating a student in the groin with a nightstick. Both the student and the newspaperman were arrested. Four students and one reporter were arrested during the hour-long scuffle. Three students and the reporter were charged and convicted on various charges of assault and riot. All convictions are being appealed, and Duke University is assisting the appeals financially. One student was charged with attacking a policeman with a deadly weapon. The "weapon" named was an empty tear gas canister, described as being "as deadly as an empty oatmeal box," since it is made of cardboard. All told, over twenty students were treated in the college infirmary for head injuries. Five policemen were hurt, some by tripping over guard-chains while chasing students. A survey taken by the administration Friday night showed that the police actions had swayed student opinion heavily in favor of the black students’ actions and against the administration.

Employees Said State-Certified
A spokesman for the Mecklenburg County Health Inspection Office said Tuesday that the College Union's Food Service employees all have proper health cards. An Inspection Office official said that North Carolina law requires all employees at public eating places to obtain health cards from a doctor once each year. All the employees of Slater Food Service, which operates the Union cafeteria, comply with this state regulation. Two Sandel, a freshman work-study employee of the cafeteria, met this requirement by having physical examinations before they arrive at Davidson or by having an examination by the college physician, the official said. Food services at Davidson's fraternity houses are not inspected by the Mecklenburg County Health Department since the fraternity houses are not considered public eating places.

Required Assembly
By DANNY WHITE
Associate Editor

The faculty Tuesday overwhelmingly passed a recommendation calling for voluntary assemblies for the remainder of the academic year. The recommendation received only one negative vote, faculty members said. The Faculty Executive Committee proposal presented by Dean of Faculty Francis W. Johnston also declared that all penalties for over-cutting assembly be removed. The faculty's action climaxes several months of pressure from the SGA Senate and other student groups who have all called for voluntary assembly. Last November, the Senate sent a recommendation to the faculty demanding fewer assemblies and additional cuts for students. A planned assembly walkout on Feb. 6 was organized by an ad hoc student group, but President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. appeared in assembly and said such irresponsible actions could only harm the prospects of voluntary assembly. Nevertheless, 75 students did walk out. However, the faculty's action of Tuesday is only effective until the end of the current academic year and is pending upon the report of the Extra Classroom Education Committee, which is expected to permanently abolish required assembly. In the only other subject on the agenda, the faculty approved a report from the Education Policy Committee concerning recommended course changes for the college catalogue. New courses approved included a biology course on evolution, a political science course in Southern politics, an English course on Negro writing in America, and a sociology course on the sociology of religion. Also, an interdisciplinary course on American literature and religious thought will be taught by Drs. Dan D. Rhodes and Anthony S. Abbott.

PUBLICATION CEASES
With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the winter term. This issue is the normal four-page, pre-exam issue, with a special two-page supplement in which Photography Editor David Weems has examined the Southern Conference basketball tournament through the lens of his camera.

Marijuana Decision Pending
The Davidson junior facing charges of possessing marijuana, carrying two concealed weapons, and crossing the center line is in court again this morning after last Friday morning's hearing was continued to allow the judge of the Rowan County Court in Salisbury to do further legal research. The Davidson College Regulations Court met Tuesday to consider the case but decided to meet again next week after the civil court has made some decision, according to Court Chairman Dr. David Kaylor. The student was arrested Feb. 21 en route to Salem College and charged with four misdemeanors. He was released on bond.

Riner’s Petitions Upheld By Court
All petitions from freshman Phil Riner were upheld by the Court of Appeals Monday night as the court:
—Ruled the present Senate Executive Committee unconstitutional and dissolved it.
—Hinted that the constitutional convention currently in session will be ruled unconstitutional when the court meets again Monday.
—Upset the appointment of three students to the Senate to fill vacancies left by the last election.

The court also held the SEC in contempt of court for violating a restraining order barring executive action by the SEC until that agency's legality was determined. The SEC itself was ruled unconstitutional because the constitutional amendment setting it up was voted on in violation of regular voting procedures. “We stipulated, as a precedent, that all elections of this sort in the future be conducted with the supervision of the Elections Board,” said court Chairman Dick Allison. The court called for elections to fill the three vacancies in the Senate. “It was our ruling that, from now on, a dorm senator who wishes to run at large must resign before the election,” said Allison, “just as a member of the House of Representatives must resign if he wishes to run for the U.S. Senate.”