Page Six April 18, 1969

Che Davidsonian ~ Phi Beta Kappa Chooses 1 Junior And 12 Seniors

One junior and 12 seniors were tapped this week for membership in Phi Beta Kappa, the highest recognition for scholarly achievements the college can bestow. The society will honor its 13 new members with a banquet May 9.

The lone junior selected for membership was Bill Johnson, of East Petersburg, Pa. Johnson is a member of Stimulus and Sigma Nu.

Grant W. Anderson, of Clemson, S.C., is a French major, a Dana Scholar, a member of the Wind Ensemble, and a member of STEP. He spent last year on the Junior Year Abroad program.

Ken Antley is a philosophy major, a member of the Male Chorus, the Investment Club and the Young Republican Club. He is from Charlotte.

Jim Cooley, of Forest City, is a history major, a McConnell Scholar, former associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and a member of the debate team.

Woody Faulk is a German major, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, vice president of Sigma Chi, and captain on the tennis team. He is from Madisonville.

Paul Gattis, from Athens, Ga., was also a member of the Junior Year Abroad program. He is a history major, a member of Alpha Tau Omega and Le Cercle Français.

Ken Gallup is a pre-med major, treasurer of Sigma Phi Epsilon, business manager for the Quips and Cranks and was a member of STEP. He is from Sanford.

Robbie Hooker, of Chapel Hill, a history major, is past editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Berkley Latimer, of Rock Hill, S.C., is a French major, the recipient of the Hay Bible Award, a member of the French Club and Phi Literary Society. He spent last year on the Junior Year Abroad program.

Charles Skinner, of Dunedin, Fla., also was a member of the Junior Year Abroad program last year. He is a history major, a Dana Scholar and a Dean's List student.

Al Varner, of Memphis, Tenn., is a pre-med major, a Sloan Scholar, a member of the tennis team and was a participant in the Junior Year Abroad program.

James Vest, of Christiansburg, Va., also participated in the Junior Year Abroad. A combined English and French major, he also is a Dean's List student.

Richard Lee Watkins of Euclid, is a math major, a Dana Scholar, a member of Stimulus and a participant in the STEP program.

Leading Figures Debate Values, Aims Of IMPACT Generation

By DAVID SWEATT Associate Editor

Vanderbilt University students pulled off their sixth straight success in as many starts with their IMPACT Symposium last weekend in Nashville.

None of the Grand Ole Opry stars appeared on the platform during the course of the two-day affair, but Senator Edmund Muskie, McGeorge Bundy and other figures did. Muskie and Bundy made major addresses Friday night and followed with extended coffee hour discussions with delegates from the seventy colleges and universities represented.

The topic for the program this year was “The Emerging Generation.” Commodore Vanderbilt might have taken back his handsome endowment had he witnessed the discussion led Friday night by “Ramparts” magazine editor Robert Scheer. Defying the symposium chairman’s instruction that...

EPC (Continued From Page 1)

Trustee action last spring in turning down the military science section of the Blue Sky Report, which asked for voluntary ROTC, came after a five-month delay in considering the proposal. Other portions of the Blue Sky recommendations had gained trustee approval in December 1967.

If the proposal is approved again by the faculty, the trustees will decide the question at their May 9 meeting here. The statement of support by Spencer and Johnston was contingent on the faculty's approval when it meets.

EPC members are Johnston, who is chairman, Dr. Daniel Rhodes, Dr. James Fredericksen, Dr. Jay Ostwalt, Dr. Max Polley, Dr. Locke White, Dr. Joseph Embry, junior David Sweatt and senior John Williams.

...the top or area of the girls' dormitory as off-limits after 12 midnight. Scheer said it would be “against all the principles” to bow before such rules. The question and answer period continued past two in the morning, Scheer taking responsibility for the action.

Scheer addressed the symposium formally at the Saturday morning session, sharing the platform with Philip Abbot Luce, former Progressive Labor Party leader turned conservative, and Representative Allard Lowenstein, the “dump Johnson” movement leader presently serving in Congress.

The three addressed themselves to methods of change, Scheer contending, “Any time you try to seriously question the structure, the channels come to be closed... My own feeling is that power has to be confronted.”

Luce called the “revolutionary activity of American young people” the “Politics of the Sandbox.” He said such actions are a resort to extra-legal means when individuals hadn't been able to convince any large number of people “in the free marketplace of ideas.” He compared the Left's methods of violence to those of the Ku Klux Klan and Nazis.

Lowenstein discussed questions currently before the Congress and said that on such questions the emerging generation could exercise great weight through the democratic process. He said such action is still viable and the most effective route to change.

His comment on Vietnam brought enthusiastic applause: “It’s about time we see something. We've given the President time to get his bearings... or whatever he’s been getting.”

The Saturday afternoon session had a different tone. Anson Mount, public affairs manager of “Playboy,” Nathan Hare, head of the Black Studies program at San Francisco State College, and Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame, substituted for Los Angeles Mayor Sam Yorty.

Discussing the Playboy Philosophy, Mount said its central tenet is that a man's personal life is not a public question. Further, Mount said, “it's possible to be a sensualist and still contribute to the society. And a lazy slob can be a prude.”

Hesburgh spoke in explanation of his nationally publicized “tough stand” on campus disorder. His newsmaking letter of Feb. 17 said that any group that “substitutes force for rational persuasion — be it violent or non-violent — will be given 15 minutes of meditation to cease and desist.”

Hare is concerned with “a black perspective based on the principle of self-control.” He spoke about activities surrounding the recent strike at San Francisco State College. A leader in the strike, Hare’s contract will not be renewed, according to President S.I. Hayakawa. Hare said he does not accept Hayakawa’s action: “He has the authority but we don’t think he has the power.”

The IMPACT symposium has enjoyed considerable success in attracting national figures. In closing his address Saturday, Representative Lowenstein invoked the remarks of two of the foremost speakers to step to the IMPACT platform in recent years: Robert F. Kennedy, who addressed the symposium last year and Dr. Martin Luther King, who addressed the assemblage two years ago.

Black Warning (Continued From Page 3)

“I say, ‘Well look, either you make a profit on this stuff, you sell it, or you take it back and tell the lady you don't want it.’ We want no charity baby, we don’t need it. If you want to give me something, give me something I can use. Give me a gun. I don’t want your second-rate stuff, things you don’t want.”

Why We Can’t Wait

The why of the black revolution — what it is that has made black assertiveness emerge at this time in...

We Won’t Go, Dorm Tells RHC

By JOHN FINE Copy Editor

Residents of Richardson and Little Dorms have said that they will not move out of their rooms for Coed Week, according to Residence Hall Council Secretary Bill Gregine. And the student government has evidently backed down, THE DAVIDSONIAN has learned, because a letter signed by Jon Jewett and Todd Hobbie was sent to residents of East and Cannon dorms...asking them to surrender their rooms instead of Little and Richardson residents. Gregory said the primary objection to moving is that the Senate Coed Committee made the arrangements without consulting the residents to find out if they approved. A spontaneous petition in Richardson Dorm demanding reconsideration of the proposed evacuation drew 94 signatures in less than a twenty-four hour period. A majority of the Richardson residents stated flatly that they would not leave because the Coed Week would overlap Spring Frolics and entail a nine-day absence from the dorm. “We haven't been asked about it,” said Tom Powell, a Richardson resident. Powell said that he was opposed to moving because it would upset his study routine. Hal Iverson, who also rooms in Richardson, said that the Coed Week housing provisions were "pushed down our throats.” “I don’t think the school should have the authority to move people out,” he said. “I don't know why we were not consulted,” said Richardson resident Rick Snipes. “I don’t want to move out.”

There is still some disagreement among RHC members as to which dorms should be used. Hobbie and Jewett said that they intended to fill Richardson first. Tom Opie, RHC chairman, said that he favored using Little because the residents of Richardson would just be getting resettled after Spring Frolics. SGA President Peter Hobbie said that he would be surprised if Coed Week was affected by the housing problem. “I never thought that there would be a problem here. I am still very confident that things will work out,” he said.

JACKSON LEADS DISCUSSION
Explains ABM to interested students.

Lunch-Table Talk Collects 20 For ABM Discussion
By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

The first of the “lunch-table talks” organized by Chaplain Sept Woodmansee, a discussion of the anti-ballistic missile question led by Dr. William E. Jackson, was well received by students Wednesday. The 20 or so students clustered around Jackson's cafeteria table heard him say a more basic question underlies the debate as to whether or not even a limited ABM system should be installed in the United States. The real issue hinges on whether or not one accepts the “rough parity” hypothesis concerning an arms race or whether one believes that a certain military superiority can be established by one side or the other, said Jackson. When one student suggested that the purpose of the ABM system might be to develop a defense against nuclear attack, Jackson stated that he feels it to be impossible to construct such a defense against Russian ICBMs. The ABM system might possibly prove effective against an attack by the ICBMs which China will have in the mid-1970s, he said, but such an attack would amount to suicide for the Chinese, and he therefore does not feel that they are prepared to do that. In regard to China, Jackson sees a real danger in that the threat of Chinese limited-strike capability might push the United States and the Soviet Union into an ever-escalating arms race. He feels that a premium should be placed on restraint in both countries.

Branch (Continued From Page 1)
At Clemson University, an ROTC Department spokesman said that 13 of the 71 senior cadets were assigned infantry, which they had not requested. As elsewhere, the number not receiving requests was “higher than usual.”

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
J.N. Burnett 439-A, N. Main
David C. Grant 560 Lorimer
L.B. Stroud 207 Pine

Alpha Epsilon Delta honorary medical fraternity met last Thursday to choose new members from the rising senior class. At the meeting, 31 new members were selected for “academic ability, interest in the field of medicine, worthy character and desirable personality,” according to president Marshall Guill. Guill noted that this year’s junior class, from which the new members were selected, “has the best group of pre-med students any class has had for years,” in quality and number of students. The new members of AED are Tad Lowdermilk, W.D. Parkhurst, Cliff Patterson, Pat Bray, Bruce Wolff, Dave Troxler, James Puckett, Tom Powell, James Black, Jack Cramley, Grif Bowen, W.R. Berry, Jan Postma, W.T. Johnson, Norman Harwitz, Charles Brockwell, Lee Wallace, John Moore, Ed Bartle, Mac Davis, Bill Waldrop, Bill Moretz, John Zaharov, Sam McNeely, Jim Hinshaw, Gary Henschen, John Baker, Romey Fisher, C.L. Whison, George Sproul, and Charlie Brown were also selected.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Davidsonian REPORT

history — received thorough attention in the interview. The reasons, according to the blacks themselves, were mainly psychological or economic in nature. “But black children,” Brown spoke first, “that grow up in this country: you can take a black child three years old and you can give that child a group of clothes — some clothes for janitors, and business executives. You give him a white doll and a black doll and tell him to dress those dolls, and that black child will dress that black man in the janitor's clothes and... the white man in business man’s clothes. “Now there’s something wrong somewhere. You look at the families. If I were to sit there and say something about your parents and talk about your mother and call her everything but a child of God, and (if) I talked about your father and called him everything but a child of God, you'd probably get more angry with me if I said more about your father. “But it's different among black people. “If you ever want to get into a fight with a black man, say something about his mother. And if you ever want to get into a fight with a white man, you talk about his father.” “The reason for that,” Williams said, “is that the black father has never known his role in this society, and it's because of the white man's inculcation. The white man has taught everybody, even the black man himself, that he has nothing. “But the women always told the black man what to do, and this is the reason why there is so much unrest in the black home today. I'm talking about the white race in general: they’re really going to look at themselves and see what they've done. I mean those deep down things that they have really done. And they're going to have to bear that brunt. That's their burden.” “And if you ask yourself, why did this actually come about?" Parks asked. “There's only one reason, and it’s obvious to me: pure greed, the desire for profit. “Why was slavery in the United States the ultimate cruelty, whereas in Latin America the slaves were just working for the guy and had all rights of a citizen and everything else? “In the United States it was completely different: it was total, complete domination. And the reason for it was that the white man in this country found out that he could make great profits in the plantation system with totally subservient slaves. “In order to do this he’s got to awe the slave with his power and his money and his knowledge of things foreign to the slave. “He’s got to downgrade the slave’s background, his ideas, everything. You've got to tell him that he has no heritage and that what little heritage he does have is bad. “He’s got to separate the family, he’s got to make the man a nothing. Because so long as the man is playing his logical role, then you have no slave really.” “The church has played a beautiful role in that the church first of all didn't say anything about slavery, and then it recognized the institution of slavery and considered it to be a means of instilling civilization into the slaves,” Williams interrupted. “Then the white man has the audacity to say: ‘Why won't this Negro man get up and take some gumption himself and get a job?’ “I think one good thing in the black revolution is that the black man is finally coming into his own,” Parks added.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
You keep flunking your best subject?
Think it over over coffee.
The Think Drink.
©! . Coffee.