Page Four March 28, 1969 The Davidsonian

FIVE ‘CAT CONTESTS TOMORROW

‘Spring Thing’ Is Sports For Davidson

It'll be a big day for Davidson sports tomorrow as no fewer than five Davidson athletic teams will be competing. While the golf team will be participating in the finals of its season-opening tournament in Orangeburg, S.C., the rugby, baseball, track, and tennis squads all will play host to opponents tomorrow afternoon on campus.

The rugby team, looking for its first win, will have a revenge motive against its opponent, N.C. State. The Wolfpack defeated Davidson in the Wildcats’ opener at Raleigh, 8-0. Tom Stevens' baseball team will meet its first conference opponent in William & Mary. Although the game does not count as a conference affair, it will give the Wildcats a taste of what league play should be like this season.

The cindermen, featuring one of the strongest Davidson track squads in some time due to the addition of several outstanding freshmen, will meet Appalachian and UNCC in their first home encounter. Coach Harry Fogleman’s defending conference tennis champions will be trying to get back to their usual winning ways as they meet Indiana State’s net team.

Sunday afternoon the rugby team will play its final home game of the season before beginning the last part of the schedule, consisting of nine away games with such rugby powers as Georgia, Duke, and South Carolina. Also, Sunday's match with UNC will be the last game that Richardson scholar Mike Lunn, Davidson's all-star rugger from England, will play before the Davidson home crowd.

According to the coaches, a conference championship in at least three of the spring sports would not be out of the question. The Wild-

Spirit, Youth And Slade Lead Baseball Fortunes

By A. W. TURNER JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

Enthusiastic and large — these describe this year's edition of Davidson baseball. “We have had more players come out this year than in several years,” said baseball coach Tom Stevens, “and they all have such enthusiasm, such a desire to win.”

The top returnee from last year is left fielder Gordon Slade. He made the all-District 3 NCAA first team and led the Southern Conference in hitting last year as a sophomore, batting around .500. Frank Murphy, the captain of the squad and a real team leader, holds down the center field position, while any one of a trio can play right field. Hal Mapes, basketballer Fox Demoisy, and Mike Frye, a member of the pitching staff, are battling for the spot.

Two seniors start on the left side of the infield. Bruce Weidner is the shortstop, and Stu Brown is stationed at the “hot corner.” Pat Reid, who played third base last year, has been moved to second. Bob Meadows and Wade Shepherd, another hurler, play first base. Jack Latimer, now scheduled for utility duty, may eventually break into the starting line-up, while junior Bill Shutt has fine speed and is the top pinch-runner, besides helping out in the outfield.

Freshman Harold Wilkerson is the starting catcher. “He has the potential to be the best catcher we've had here,” stated Stevens. Mapes and Brown can back him up behind the plate. Last year Wilkerson was the second-round draft choice of the New York Mets.

Emphasis is on youth in the pitching staff. This year's squad has only five hurlers, and three are freshmen. Rick Pipan, Marshall Case, and Frye are the rookie members of the mound corps and all were high school sensations. Shepherd, a sophomore, and junior Johnny Riggs round out the staff.

Stevens commented briefly on the opening season loss to Pfeiffer, 10-5. “The boys were tight and a little too keyed up for the game. We made a few errors in the first inning and they had seven runs before we

Vengeful Ruggers Prepare For Final Home Matches

It looks as if it may be a long, hard season for Davidson's newest team, the rugby squad. The ruggers, after opening defeats at the hands of N.C. State by 8-0 and Clemson by 18-0, face State and UNC this weekend in the last home games of the season.

“We just had no offense to speak of,” team captain and organizer Zack Mobley said. “We've had not enough practice or experience to compete and win against teams like these.” However, Mobley feels that in tomorrow's return match with State the Davidson team should have no problem. “I don't see how we can lose tomorrow against them, even after they beat us in the season opener. Mobley predicted. “When you look at the overall size, ability, and toughness of the two squads we're definitely the better team. I feel sure that we'll win.”

If so, it will be the first time in several years that a Davidson athletic team has beaten a team in any sport from State. According to Mobley, the lack of experience and knowledge of the rules severely hampered Davidson in the first two losses. “Our backs ran the ball too much, they just wouldn't pass off, and therefore we couldn't mount any threat on offense.” Mobley also said that certain rugby technicalities seemed to thwart Davidson's attempts to score. “One thing I'm certain of, though, is that after this weekend we'll have gotten on the scoreboard.”

The stand-outs in the two losses were few and far between but nevertheless several players did distinguish themselves in their very first organized rugby game. Mobley, as usual, was one of the mainstays of the forward line, making numerous score-saving tackles and ball recoveries. Other linemen stars were Eddie Rice, Sam Davis, Teddy Ravenel, Stuart Shelton, and Garrel Nicholson.

Although the backfield failed to score in either game, certain individuals, according to Mobley, did play good defensive games. “Dave Branch particularly stood out in the State game, while Ed Deitrich, Jim Marrow, Reynolds Johnson, Billy Mohr, and Steve Draper played good all-around ball.” Mobley said. “Of course Mike Lunn was tremendous in the State game.” Lunn, a Richardson scholar from England, is the team's “coach” and only bona fide star.

“The rest of the season may be tougher than what we've played so far,” Mobley concluded, “but we'll be improving the whole time, too.” Davidson meets State tomorrow afternoon on the rugby field (the football practice field) at 2, while UNC invades Davidson Sunday afternoon at the same time.

Linksters In Tournament As Golfers Open Season

Davidson's golf team, led by senior captain Mike Spann, opened its season yesterday in the Palmetto Invitational Golf Tournament and will conclude play against some of the nation’s best collegiate competition tomorrow. The Southern Conference team champion for the past three years, Davidson has several key returnees from last year’s squad. Heading the list is Spann, an All-American choice last year. The individual Southern Conference champion in his sophomore year Spann has been tuning his game since leaving the basketball team early in the season. Spann participated in the NCAA tourney in both his sophomore and junior years. He has a “fine all-around game, but is known primarily as a big hitter,” according to team coach Tom Scott.

Other members of last year's team who are back include Doug Clark, Danny White, and Cary Hite, who played well in last year's Southern Conference Tournament. This year’s schedule is a challenging one including North Carolina State, North Carolina, and powerful Wake Forest, led by another All-American and North Carolina Golfer of the Year, Jack Lewis.

Dr. Scott, the athletic director, will be coaching the team for the 15th year. In his previous years as head golf coach, he has had five team champions and four individual titlists. The Wildcat linksters are shooting for a Southern Conference record this season — four consecutive team championships. George Washington, 1957-1959, and Virginia Tech, 1961-1963, now jointly hold the mark with Davidson. Principal conference challengers include East Carolina and Furman, last year’s second and third place finishers. The Pirates have eight returning lettermen and the Paladins have six veterans on this year’s team.knew it. “We settled down after the first frame and looked real good,” continued Stevens. “Marshall Case looked especially impressive on the mound.” Case pitched shutout ball in relief of Pipan. “All the Southern Conference teams are going to be better this year, including us,” said Stevens. “The conference is divided into a Southern division and a Northern division. In the Southern division with Davidson are East Carolina, Furman, and The Citadel. The two division winners meet at the end of the season in a best of three series for the Southern Conference crown.”

Stevens would not pick a favorite for either the Southern division or the Southern Conference. “With all the teams getting stronger, any one will have a shot at the crown, including Davidson.”

Davidson's baseball, tennis, and golf teams all have good shots at the conference titles, while the track team is still building and is much improved. There are a total of 37 spring sport games still to play at Davidson, including tomorrow's contests. The baseball team has 14 remaining home games, including three doubleheaders, while the tennis team also has 14 home matches still to play. The track squad has four meets remaining at Davidson, the golf team has three matches in Charlotte, and the rugby squad has two remaining matches, both this weekend.

For those students not participating in Davidson's varsity spring sports, the spring IMAC schedule gets into full swing next week with the beginning of the volleyball tournament. Later on in the month, intramural softball and tennis will get underway.

Saturday, March 29
All Day Golf
2 p.m. Rugby: Davidson vs. N. C. State
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. Indiana State
2 p.m. Track: Davidson vs. Appal. and UNC-C
2 p.m. Baseball: Davidson vs. Wm. & Mary

Sunday, March 30
2 p.m. Rugby: Davidson vs. UNC

Monday, March 31
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. Wooster
2 p.m. Golf: Davidson at Charleston, S.C. vs. Furman & Citadel
3 p.m. Baseball: Davidson vs. George Mason

Tuesday, April 1
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. Hope College
3 p.m. Baseball: Davidson vs. VMI

Wednesday, April 2
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. MIT

Thursday, April 3
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. Harvard

Fogleman Looking For Revival After Slow Start By Net Team
By STEVE NEWSOME
Sports Writer

Varsity tennis got off to a sluggish start this past week as Coach Harry Fogleman’s team dropped three of five matches, including their first loss in three and a half years to a Southern Conference foe. Last week the squad opened its season against Ohio University in a match played at Davidson, and were downed 6-3. However, the following day they traveled to Wofford and romped 9-0 over a much weaker team. The following day, though, a surprising Furman team whipped the Wildcats 7-2, handing Coach Fogleman his first loss in the conference since George Washington nipped his squad in 1965. The netmen returned home Monday for a meeting with Cincinnati and were barely edged, 5-4. Then they ripped Calvin College 9-0 Tuesday and faced Amherst on Wednesday.

However, both Fogleman and team captain Woody Faulk expressed optimism about the remainder of the season despite the record thus far. “This team is going to have an uphill battle because we're so inexperienced,” Faulk explained. The netters have won four consecutive Southern Conference Championships but this year are having to rely heavily on freshmen and sophomores. Faulk pointed out that improvement is expected as the season progresses. “I don’t know how we'll be at the end of the year,” he said. “Much depends on how far some of our players come around.” But he was optimistic that the improvement would come.

The loss of four seniors, including conference champion George Berner, a Richardson Scholar of last year, has hurt chances of the team bringing back another title. Also, sophomore Jim Cantrell, a regular from last year, has been out with mononucleosis and began practice only this week. Another blow came when Nanno Kranenborg, a Richardson Scholar from Holland, decided to leave school during the Christmas break. He had been counted on by Fogleman as a top performer. Kranenborg is a leading Dutch netter.

Making the best performances thus far this year have been senior Faulk and sophomore Harlan Day. Both have won four matches while losing only one. As Davidson's top-seeded player, Faulk's single defeat came at the hands of Furman's Howard Hunt, 6-2, 1-6, 6-2. Hunt was second in last year's conference tournament to Berner.

Four subsidized teams appear to be the class in the Southern this year. The Citadel is favored to take the title as they have everyone back from last season’s team that tied for second place. Also, the conference tournament will be in Charleston May 8-10. George Washington was the other team that tied for second and it also has everyone back from that successful squad. Furman and William and Mary are two teams that have shown great improvement and should be ranked ahead of Davidson.

Records Fall To ‘Cat Cindermen, Whittle Is Optimistic About Season
By MARK HODGES
Sports Writer

Ray Sweetenburg leaped past the Davidson school record in the triple jump and the Davidson 440 relay team broke its old school mark in the News Piedmont Relays in Greenville, S.C. last Saturday. Rick Lyon also placed third in the 100-yard dash with a tie in 9.7 seconds.

Competing in a field described by Heath Whittle, coach of the Davidson track team, as “very stiff competition,” Sweetenburg took fourth place with his record leap of 44-9. The old mark was 44 feet 5½ inches. Though not winning a placing, the 440 relay team, consisting of Tommy Richardson, Whit Morrow, Carl Salter, and Rick Lyon, came in with a clocking of 42.5, breaking the old record by three-tenths of a second.

Davidson's track team opens its regular season at home tomorrow afternoon in a tri-meet with Appalachian State College and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. This year's schedule includes ten regular season contests, the Davidson Relays, the North Carolina State Meet, and the Southern Conference Tournament.

Commenting on the prospects for a successful track season, Coach Whittle remarked: “At this point, I'm in hopes that we can win more than we lose.” He went on to explain that “we have real good individuals but the team needs more balance. We need middle and long-distance runners, and we don't have any vaulters at all.”

These “good individuals” mentioned by Coach Whittle are Rick Lyon, Whit Morrow, and Tommy Richardson on sprints; Karl Sweetenburg and George Rogester, high hurdles; Lyon and Ken Hill, 440-yard dash; James Puckett, 880-yard run; Stagg Newman on the mile and three-mile run; Tom Rogers and Sweetenburg, triple jump; Tony Orsbon and Sweetenburg, high jump; Kerry Keith, javelin; Steve Kirley and Tom Baker, shot-put; and Rogester and Sweetenburg on the long jump and 440 hurdles. Coach Whittle also cited Greg Cox, an all-round performer in the sprints, hurdles, and jumps. He said that Cox has suffered a sprained ankle and will not compete until the second meet of the season against Trinity College.

In analyzing this year's track schedule, Coach Whittle said: “The competition is much stronger this year. Nearly all of our opponents have subsidized athletic programs.” This, then, will be Davidson's problem: To compete against these schools and win with an unsubsidized track team. Whittle pointed to The Citadel and Furman as having perhaps the toughest teams Davidson will face in the regular season.

When asked about the Wildcats’ chances in the Southern Conference tournament, Whittle replied, “We have no chance of winning. William and Mary will probably take the title. But we do have a chance to win some of the individual championships.”