Outside Perspective
By DICK ANDERSON

Notre Dame Abandons Celibacy

The all-male Catholic-supported University of Notre Dame has decided to go coeducational. Notre Dame and the administration of St. Mary’s College, a Catholic college for women, have agreed to develop a 3-to-1 ratio of male to female students. The decision was announced Monday by the Rev. Theodore H. Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame, and Monsignor John J. McGarth, president of St. Mary’s. The trustees of both institutions have approved the coeducation plan to give the two campuses “an increasingly coeducational character.” The process will begin in September, when 245 freshmen from each school will share four required liberal arts courses at both campuses.

Belmont Abbey Expels Seven Protesters

Seven black students at Belmont Abbey College who last week took over the science building have been expelled from the college. The expulsion by the college’s disciplinary committee may be appealed to the school’s president, who said after the action that he would have the “good proposals” by the group studied by the college. An earlier statement by the president indicated that Belmont Abbey did not have the funds necessary to implement the student demands.

Temple Coeds Join Cadet Corps

Eight coeds at Temple University are presently taking part in the ROTC program there. The girls joined up when the university made its annual announcement that participating in the voluntary program would be considered a substitute for required physical education. The coeds will not receive ROTC commissions when they graduate, but they do follow the normal curriculum of the cadets, including drill.

Legislators Attack Obscenity

A crisis has sprung up at the University of New Mexico over the use in an English class of a poem which state legislators termed obscene. The legislators demanded that the teaching assistant who used the poem be replaced, and the university president suspended him pending investigation of the circumstances. The president has also suspended the chairman of the English department and the head of freshman English instruction for their refusal to fire the instructor in whose class the poem was discussed. In the English department at UNM, other professors and teaching assistants responded by distributing the poem to their classes so that they also would be implicated. Other faculty members and graduate assistants met and demanded that the president reinstate the instructors and faculty members involved. A student group also demanded of the president that he defend the academic freedom of the college or else resign the presidency. The poem involved was “Love Lust Poem” by Lenmore Kandel. One state senator characterized it as “the most filthy stuff I’ve ever read,” and threatened to cut the university’s appropriations until the administration promised “to clean up the campus.”

Montreat Analysis (Continued From Page 1)

as a transitive verb.” “The university has to risk its life to save itself,” he said. “Students don’t want to wait for commencement to commence. They want to commence now.” Two outside opinions were picked up also from a pair of men closely associated with Guilford College. Jay Longacre and Bruce Stewart both left the assembly with clear ideas of the possibilities and priorities in admission and experimentation. Stewart, former admissions head of Guilford, warned the conference about the admission of Negroes and the demands on the college which such admission produces. He noted that it can work well, saying “you’ve got to turn the whole place upside down to do it.” Stewart made it explicitly clear that concessions must be made; and illustrated his point with the success of the Guilford administration in coping with the problem. “If Davidson wants black students,” he said, “it can get them.” Longacre, who is at Guilford for a New York fund-raising corporation, described methods for financing such programs as the experimental college and career studies programs. Most colorful in his view of alumni from the standpoint of a fund-raiser, he said, “if one’s education is only worth $15 or $20 a year, then something is wrong,” and noted a moral and legitimate right for a college to ask for more funds for such programs. Representing the Southern Educational Board in Atlanta, Bill Sigmon told the group that the “soul” spirit is missing in the Davidson education. He spoke of the changing criteria of performance in the American colleges, seeing that the old verbal intellectual ideals of more thinking than acting which characterize Davidson are giving way to the new idea of emotion over ideas, of things rather than symbols. He challenged the school to expose its liberal arts idea to the “great issues,” such as “hungry kids, injustice, war and militarism.” Dr. T. A. Williams posed one of the most provocative statements in response to Sigmon’s challenge, saying that credit must be given for such experiments in careers and outside work. “You can’t separate the personal focus and the academic focus,” Williams said. “The personal things are not the things that lead you to graduation, and this is demoralizing.” The entire retreat was enlightening and exciting, but a great deal of the excitement will be lost in the writing of the reports. The value came in that students such as Richard Cowart and Les Brown, and faculty and administrators could finally get together in one place to get their ideas opened. The overall idea gained from the conference was that the main obstacles of credits and costs could be worked out, and excitement of the possibilities generated that weekend at least partially remain to spawn new ideas and new excitement.

Chemistry Honorary Taps 25

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, inducted 25 new members and an honorary faculty member at its meeting last Monday. Founded at Davidson in 1919, Gamma Sigma Epsilon recognizes students who are interested in chemistry and have met the academic requirements for admission. Dr. John N. Burnett, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, delivered a lecture to the group after the initiation ceremony. Elected to the fraternity were Burnett as an honorary faculty member and Sterling Abernathy, Edward Bartle, William Bowen, Jack Crumbley, Mac Davis, Paul Garrigus, Steve Hall, John Heitman, David Herring, Norman Hurwitz, William Johnson, Jim McDowell, and Sam McNeely. Michael Moats, William Moretz, Duncan Postma, Thomas Powell, Kent Rhodes, Richard Saunders, Paul Sawyer, Ed Shoaf, Robert Truitt, Lee Wallace, Clarence Wilson, and Bruce Wolff were also inducted.

Pierrot Players Stage Lively Anti-War Satire

A REVIEW By DICK ANDERSON Associate Editor

“Oh What a Lovely War” is a preachy satire on the First World War. And like most works in which the author tries to get across a moralistic point, it is extraordinarily long-winded. And that is about all one can find to criticize in the Davidson College Drama Department’s production. “Oh What a Lovely War” is a series of skits which follow a chronological procession through the war, and the players, costumed as pierrots, each play a variety of parts. However, a number of the actors appear in consistent roles. Particularly impressive among these is Tim Gailey as the stuffed shirt British commander, Sir Douglas Haig, whose wildly over-optimistic pronouncements contrast vividly with the silly black fluffs on the front of his pierrot uniform. The casting is consistently excellent. Peter Lutken has the role of the host of the “war games” which are played during the performance, and he is appropriately enthusiastic. One of the most effective techniques in the play is the use of the film projector to throw pictures, posters, casualty reports and other messages on the screen that is the sole backdrop to the action. Some of the skits are extraordinarily funny; some of the others, unfortunately, are not. One of the best is a training scene with Tony Orsbon as a gung-ho drill sergeant trying to teach bayonet drill to four tangle-footed recruits. Orsbon rattles off his commands at such a speed that they can hardly

Study Of Pay Goes On
By BILL SHERWOOD Staff Writer

The campaign to effect an increase in the salaries of fraternity cooks is progressing. More complete figures than those which only indicate the cash take-home pay of the cooks are being obtained and analyzed, said Randy Phillips, one of the organizers of the campaign. These figures will enable Phillips and Robert Pyeatt, who first became cognizant of the salary situation of the cooks, to determine to a fairly accurate extent the real income, or total benefits, that the cooks receive. “It is evident from the figures already available that the salaries are indeed inadequate,” Pyeatt said. When the degree of this inadequacy is determined, those concerned will try to persuade each of the fraternities to increase the pay of the cooks, he said. If the fraternities fail to respond, Pyeatt indicated that some other strategy may be tried. When the complete figures are available, the YMCA Cabinet is to vote on the issue, deciding whether or not to support and perhaps lend assistance to the campaign, said Pyeatt.be under- stead, roly-poly Clay Edwards falls all over himself trying to carry the... out and freshman basketballer Lester Strong leaps clear over the orchestra and halfway up the aisle in one ferocious charge. On the other hand, a scene in which a German and a French soldier—symbolized, naturally, by the appropriate headgear—read sad letters home is just too saccharine, and a skit showing English and German housewives repeating the same rumors about the other sides’ atrocities is merely arch: it proves that there is not really any difference between two sides in a war. Get the point? Among the girls, Nancy Smith, daughter of the director of the College Union, may be singled out for her singing and dancing, particularly in the tongue-twisting "Sister Susie's Sewing Shirts." However, the others (Jackie Blythe, Barbara Fagg, Kathy McLean, and Betty Plagens) also have their high moments in commendable performances. Paul Pitts and Sterling Abernathy also deserve praise for the sound effects, as well as director Rupert Barber (who else?) and Music Director Robert Jackson.

POL VAN GEEL DRAWS STUDENTS
Noted caricaturist Pol van Geel today brings to a close his stay on campus. For the past two weeks, he has been appearing in fraternity houses and other major campus locations to draw humorous caricatures of Davidson students. Van Geel has achieved great acclaim in the field of caricature and cartooning. He last visited Davidson in 1966.

Davidson Citizens Discuss Troubles In Open Meeting
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The Mayor's Community Relations Committee held its annual open meeting in the Davidson black community Monday evening. Approximately 50 townspeople, both black and white, plus several students met with 12 of the committee members in the West Davidson Community Center to ask questions and air grievances. The Mayor's Committee is a biracial conciliatory board which seeks to improve communications among the various sections of the town and the Town Council. The committee’s sole power lies in discussion of issues and in making recommendations to the Council.

Curfew Decision To Be Announced
“A decision on curfew regulations may well come before the end of the year,” said Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr., early this week. According to Burts, curfew regulations for women guests on Davidson's fraternity court are among the administrative rules proposed by the Dean's Council and soon to be considered by the Student Life Committee. He said that President Spencer would probably be the ultimate source of the decision on curfew. “I'm not at liberty to express the findings of the Dean's Council at this time,” said Burts. “I haven't seen the proposals nor have I heard their contents,” revealed in conversation, said R. David Kaylor, chairman of the SLC. Kaylor said that he was unsure whether the proposals would be presented formally to this committee, but added that he felt it appropriate for the SLC to review a matter so important in student life. However, Spencer said last week that the report had been sent to the SLC for recommendations. Burts said that should curfew regulations remain in effect, temporary suspensions such as those granted for Midwinter and Spring Frolics would not necessarily continue in the future. “There are student members of the Student Life Committee, so the opinion of the campus is reflected in the examination of curfew rules,” Burts added.

Petitions Enlist Support For Composition Courts
President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. met with the SGA Senate for a question and answer session Wednesday night. No action was taken. Ran Coble reported that over 200 students had signed petitions opposing the proposal to make all student tennis courts hard surfaced rather than composition. SGA President Peter Hobbie said that elections would be held soon to consider amendments of the Code of Responsibility and the SGA constitution and to elect new cheerleaders. According to Hobbie, the Social Council may propose a return to the policy of charging admission to each concert rather than assessing each student a set fee at the beginning of the year.

The committee heard a number of complaints concerning street paving and drainage and promised to report them to the Town Council for action. Of particular interest was the voter registration with town elections coming up the next day. Several people complained that registration was held in the home of the town registrar for two weeks and in the Town Hall for only one day, and many felt that the length of the registration period was too short. The committee resolved to recommend to the Town Council that voter registration be held only in public places and for a longer period before the next election. Police protection was also discussed, several residents pointed out that speeding and drag racing was becoming a serious problem on West Griffin Street. The committee moved to ask the Town Council to take action toward providing better protection in this area and to hire another policeman, a Negro if possible, to augment the present force. Before adjourning, the committee decided to hold another open meeting in the black community sometime next fall.

Experimental Film To Be Presented
Miss Storm de Hirsch, a producer of experimental films, will present a showing of her films and lecture on the art of filmmaking Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Miss de Hirsch's work in cinema is concerned with film as a medium of creative expression. Among the films that she has made are "Cayuga Run" and "The Color of Ritual, The Color of Thought," a thirty-minute trilogy which has been widely praised for its use of color, shape, and sound to record a psychic event. Miss de Hirsch has shown her films at film festivals worldwide and has lectured at a number of colleges and universities. There is no charge for admission.

This year’s Quips and Cranks will probably be passed out next week, according to editor Don Gately. The yearbook will feature informal senior pictures and a generally informal format. Unlike previous editions, this one will have no formal group pictures: “We were trying to give a realistic portrayal of life at Davidson,” Gately explained. The format will reflect the atmosphere of Davidson. Gately promised more artistic effects in the photography, and said that the edition would include much more color and better quality color than ever before. He also praised Tony Orsbon’s copy, which aims at “creativity rather than critical commentary.”

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
A. B. Brinkley 420 N. Main
R. D. Kaylor 740 Virginia
Max Polley Ney Circle
J. B. Woods 522 Lorimer
W. G. Workman 209 Lorimer

Belk RHC Plans Supper
Under the leadership of Ran Coble, the Belk Dorm RHC will present the first large-scale entertainment program to be attempted by any dorm since the Residence Hall Association was established. Beginning at 7 p.m. tomorrow, the RHC will sponsor a lawn supper to be followed by a sing-along featuring Charlie Brown, Jack Trotter, and Bill Youkey. Belk Dorm will also be holding open house that night from six to midnight. The singers will take requests from the audience and will perform informally. There is also a possibility that the area in front of Belk will be set apart as a designated drinking area. Coble said that the food to be served at the supper would be free and would include hamburgers, baked beans, cole slaw, and Cokes. RHC members and the Union would work together to prepare the food. In commenting on the program, Coble stressed that the event was a first for the RHA and said, “The RHA must continue to show what can be accomplished within a strong dorm program.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

What's New in Men’s Fashions?
More shape... slightly wider lapels... deeper vents... and more length in coats. Plaids, both bold and subdued, will continue dominant, but in patterns with a grainy effect that gives an appearance of dimension and texture. And the new look in footwear coordinates perfectly with the clothing picture. Beautifully detailed materials, new toe shapes, straps, buckles, ornamentations of all types, and slip-ons galore. A good example: the new Mansfield styles shown here. Mansfield Shoes are available at (store name).

BOSTONIAN and MANSFIELD SHOES
17.00 to 35.00
Our 57th Year