WHITTLE SEEKS NINTH TITLE
Relays Slate 17 Teams
By A. W. TURNER, JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

The biggest of Davidson's spring sports events takes place tomorrow as the Wildcat track team plays host to the 11th annual Davidson Relays in Richardson Stadium. No less than 17 Southern colleges from North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Georgia are scheduled to compete in the relays.

The Davidson Relays is unlike the ordinary track meet. No individual track events will be held, as all action on the cinders will be in the form of relays. Spectators will see such unusual events as the Distance Medley Relay, composed of a 440, an 880, a three-quarter mile, and a mile, and the Sprint Medley Relay, consisting of two 220's, a 440, and an 880. Field events will be held just as they are in usual track meets. The Relays will begin at 1 p.m. with the field events while the relay races are slated to start at 2:30 p.m.

Davidson is the defending champion. The Wildcats outdistanced Catawba College, 63-50, in the event last year, as Cumberland (Ky.), Pembroke, and Presbyterian followed in that order. Besides the top five teams from last year, Berry (Ga.) College, West Georgia, UNCC, Emory, Western Carolina, Mars Hill, Appalachian State, Campbell College, Elon, High Point, Carson-Newman, and Atlantic Christian will be here to fight for the trophies. This year's field of 17 is larger than that at the 1968 Davidson Relays, when 15 squads were entered. Davidson track coach Heath Whittle sighted Catawba, last year’s runner-up, Appalachian, and the third and fourth place finishers last year, Cumberland and Pembroke, as the teams most likely to contend along with the Wildcats for the team title. Also strong will be Western Carolina, where Whittle's son is head track coach. Last year, the Catamounts finished last in the field of 18, but their program this year is much stronger, as demonstrated by their cross-country team, which last fall swamped Davidson.

There are three newcomers to the event this year. Emory, Berry, and West Georgia will all be making their first appearance in the Relays. Whittle and his staff have been working all week in preparation for the Relays. Besides sending the track team through their usual workouts, the coaches have been working to get the track in good condition. “I'm expecting a good crowd,” Whittle said. “Of course it won't be as large as last year's when Spring Frolics coincided with the Relays, but I still think a lot of students will come out to see us. It's the biggest home event of the season."

The Davidson Relays were initiated in 1959 as a relay meet for Southern non-subsidized schools. The Wildcats have dominated the event since its conception, having been victors in eight of the previous 10 events. However, one part of the original plan no longer exists. Since few schools now do not subsidize track, this year's field consists of a majority of colleges which give track scholarships. Since most of the schools in the Davidson Relays this year are small schools, the seven relay races will put a big hardship on the little track teams. Only Appalachian, which will bring a 35-man squad, will enter all events. Davidson will enter no one in the pole vault, the shot put, and the discus throw. In the relay races, the Wildcats will have no two-mile relay team. This race, which consists of four 880 legs, will probably be the least-entered event because small track teams do not have four 880 men.

In last year's win, Davidson took four first places. The hopes of another Davidson triumph depend on certain track team members. Sophomore Rick Lyon, freshman Tammy Richardson, and junior Whit Morrow will each run in three relay races. Freshman Ray Swetenburg and seniors Greg Cox and Tony Orsborn will head the Wildcat effort in the field events. Swetenburg holds the school record for the triple jump. Cox took first place in the long jump in last year’s relays, and Orsborn is the school high jump record holder. Davidson will sorely miss sophomore Steve Kirley, their only weight man, who has been a surprising performer in the shot put and discus this season.

Going into the relays, Davidson's record stands at two wins and two losses, as the meet scheduled earlier this week with High Point and Pembroke was rained out. The next meet for the track team after the Relays will be Tuesday, when Davidson plays host to Furman and High Point.

COMING ABOUT...
The Davidson sailing team finished a disappointing third in the Davidson Invitational Sailing Championship last Saturday. The sailors, behind team captain John Moore, finished behind the Citadel and South Carolina in the final standings. (Staff Photo by Weems).

Maloy And Lefty Tops At Banquet
All-American Mike Maloy received the most awards, while ex-Wildcat coach Lefty Driesell was given the most praise at the annual basketball banquet held Wednesday night. Maloy was named as the winner of the Most Valuable Player award. He also was given the trophies representing the best rebounding and defensive efforts. Maloy also officially received an All-American plaque and ring. Jerry Kroll was named as the best free throw shooter, while Wayne Huckel won the award for the most hustle. The players gave gifts to Driesell, assistant coaches Terry Holland and Jerry Conboy, trainer Tom Couch, and "number one fan" Colonel Frederick Outlaw. Sportscaster Bill Currie gave a brief speech honoring Driesell and citing his accomplishments and contributions to Charlotte, and a representative of the Wildcat Club gave tribute to Driesell for his work with Davidson basketball.

FROM LEFTY TO LARRY
Davidson basketball stars Mike Maloy, Jerry Kroll, and Doug Cook converse with new head coach Larry Brown. Brown, who recently met with the team and area press, named Bo Brickels, a Rice assistant, as his top aide. (Photo courtesy of Mecklenburg Gazette)

Spring Squads Preparing, Looking Toward Future
"It's what's up front that counts.” With that philosophy in mind, Davidson spring sports are heading into the meat of their schedules, trying to forget past experiences. There was good reason for forgetfulness, too, with only the tennis and rugby teams breaking even in contests this past week. The baseball team will perhaps be the busiest in the next few days. The ‘Cats have a double-header on the road with East Carolina tomorrow, and play five games next week in the space of only five days. Stevens says that the team is trying to correct many of the mental mistakes it has been making in these games.

Sigs Picked In Softball, Delts, Machis Threaten
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The Kappa Sigs appear to have the most powerful softball team in the IMAC this year, and the main reason is their outfield. The four fielders, Mike Kelly, Bob Niebaver, Cooper Brantley, and Jim Long all played baseball last year and will give excellent fielding in addition to power at the plate. Terry Millar, Hal Young, Ronnie Brown, and Larry Goldman form a steady if less spectacular infield. Mike O’Neill will probably be the pitcher and John Slaughter will catch.

The Phi Delts won last year’s championship and will again field a strong team despite losing three all-league players. Returning are Dave Moser, Wayne Huckel, George House, and Dave Fernbach. Newcomers are Rick Travilla and ex-baseballer Ray Logan.

The Sigma Chis return a nucleus from last year’s team and should finish a strong third. Jerry Kroll returns as all-league center fielder. Other returnees are Jeff Pflugner at catcher, Jim Long at first base, Bob Lanter at pitcher, Edgar Exum at third base, and Bill Horton in right field. Newcomers to the starting lineup are Herb Clegg at shortstop, Ron Sietzer at short field, Norm Hurwitz in left field, and Bob Ambrose at second.

The Pikas have the potential to improve on their 6-6 record of last season if sophomores come through. Returnees from last season are left fielder Mike Sherrill, shortstop Tom Poston, first baseman Joe Lansinger, and catcher Bill Berry. Sophomores expected to start are outfielders Steve McNabb, George WESTERN AUTO Main St. Davidson, N. C. Phone 892-1496

Hungry?
THE COFFEE CUP
Can soothe your stomach with delicious Sandwiches, Seafoods & Steaks. Breakfast begins at 6 A.M. - Dinner is served until 9 P.M. daily.

The SPE's, although badly hurt by the switch to slow-pitch softball, will field a first division team. In the outfield will be returnees Gary Sigmon and Fletcher Hartsell, and sophomores Phil Croy and Dave Shepler, all excellent fielders. In the infield Craig Garner will star.At third, slick-fielding John Bruner at short, Randy Bridges at second, and Shep Johnston at first. Joey Saunders will catch and Bob Dunham returns as pitcher. The Sigma Nu, under the coaching of crafty Clark Nickerson, will be trying to break into the first division. Returnees from last season are Steve Hayes, Tom Phillips, Tony Westmoreland, Mike Gurvey, John Oliver, and John Lambert. Newcomers are George Armstrong, Tom Skinner, John Heitmann, and catcher Bob York Stubbs. The Phi Gams lost most of last year’s powerhouse team by graduation, but Bob Apgar, Barry McLean, and Mike Bumgardner return as the nucleus. The Gams’ lineup is unset, but sophomores will be relied upon heavily. The ATOs are in much the same position as the Phi Gams in that they will rely heavily upon sophomores. Returnees are Jim McDowell, Jim Cooley, John Durham, and Todd Hutton. Top sophomores are Larry Flynn, Mort Chiles, Ted Woods, Rick Hawarah, and Brad Danielson. The KAs return shortstop Romey Fisher, third baseman Dale Durham, outfielder Theo Powell, and pitcher Cash O’Below.

Frank Gray from last year's second division team. Newcomers will not provide enough help to keep them from being mediocre again. The SAEs have potentially good hitting with K. D. Weeks, Paul Rothert, Sammy Davis, Charles Rockwell, and Dave Hubbard returning. But they again will be beset with their usual problem of getting everyone out to play. The Betas too will have manpower problems. Returnees from last season are Ed Terry, Bill Gammon, Hunter Rice, Mack Reavis, John Baker, Bud Couser, and Mike Gulbreath. The Pi Kapps should win a couple of games in softball after getting their first major sport victory of the year in volleyball. John Huggins, Jim Smoak, and Joe Scales will provide steady play, but the Pi Kapps may at times find their ranks a little thin. The Indies are as yet very unorganized and for that reason may have trouble winning. Bill Funderburk, Luther Moore, Dan Graham, Bob Poe, Harvey Jackson, Sam Bell, Tom Martell, Mark Thompson, and Ray English may start for the Indies.

SUMMER JOBS
WE HAVE A SPECIAL JOB JUST FOR YOU!
National Agency of Student Employment
P.O. Box 52492
New Orleans, Louisiana 70150

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated

Check GQ Money Order
GENTLEMEN: PLEASE SEND 1969 SUMMER JOB DIRECTORIES CHECKED

"We've got a young ball club and many of the boys are still adjusting to college ball. Pretty soon we're going to come around and win some games." The coach notes that his pitchers, mostly freshmen, have been doing some smart pitching and mixing their pitches well. The golf team is also looking ahead trying to forget the past. Besides having a match with N. C. State this afternoon at Charlotte, Coach Tom Scott must take his team to meet the same Wolfpack squad next Friday at Raleigh after facing UNC on Monday. The last meeting with Carolina was a close one and the Wildcat golfers hope to make it just a bit closer this time around. Last Monday UNC was the opponent and Davidson led until the last man had come in. With improved shooting, the Wildcats were ahead 10-8 when they lost three points on the final player. In the match, Mike Spann, Carey Hite, and K. D. Weeks all shot 75s with Doug Clark close behind at 76 and Danny White at 77. The other two players shot in the 80s. The tennis team goes into next week just trying to even up its record. Coach Harry Fogleman’s netters have won seven while losing nine. The one bright spot for Fogleman was the play of sophomore Jim Cantrell. Since rejoining the team last week after sickness, Cantrell at the number six position has won three consecutive matches. A contest Tuesday with Appalachian was rained out and has been rescheduled for later in the season.

Davidson’s newest entry into the field of intercollegiate athletic competition, rugby, had its first small success this past weekend. After four opening losses, the Davidson team tied the University of Virginia 8-8 in a game played at Raleigh. This same UVa team last year was the winner of the Carling Cup, signifying the best rugby team in the South. The Wildcats grabbed a quick 3-0 lead at the beginning of the game on a try by Maitre Ingkatanuwat. Later, Dave Branch scored another try, and Davidson also connected on a conversion. It wasn't until late in the game that Virginia came from behind to tie the score. Zack Mobley, student coach of the team, expressed encouragement over the team’s showing and predicted that the squad would do well in their game with Georgia State this weekend in Atlanta.

Rice: ‘Brickels A Great Coach’
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

Doug Knodel, head basketball coach at Rice University, sounded as if he were on the verge of tears. “You’re getting a good man—a really great coach. I just hate to see him go.” The reason for Knodel’s misery was the departure of his top assistant, Robert “Bo” Brickels, for Davidson as number one assistant under the Wildcats’ new head coach, Larry Brown. “Bo will really be missed around here,” Knodel said. “He was a real asset to our program, an indescribably important part because of his ability in all phases of coaching.” Brickels served as assistant at Rice for two years after returning as head coach from Columbus, Ohio high school. In six seasons at Columbus, he compiled an 81-44 record. The son of the late John Brickels, one of the nation’s foremost athletic directors, Brickels graduated from Miami of Ohio and received his Master’s at North Carolina, where he met Brown. “He’ll be a credit to Davidson,” Knodel promised. “Rice and Davidson are similar, small and academically oriented, so Bo is used to the atmosphere.” Knodel, having worked closely with Brickels for the past two years in trying to build Rice’s cage program, described Brickels as being “aggressive, optimistic, likes a challenge. He has every good quality needed in a coach. Bo is an excellent recruiter with a good approach to young people. This helps him get along well with his players, too.” Joe McLaughlin, a sportswriter for the Houston Chronicle and a regular reporter at Rice basketball games, said that Brickels is “a top prospect as a coach. He has a real knowledge of the game and is an avid student of all basketball skills and techniques, as well as tactics and strategy.” Brickels has already hit the road in search of the remaining unsigned high school prospects. According to Knodel, “Bo has already made favorable contacts with several recruits.”

Basketball Team Proved Scholars
Scholar-athletes is indeed the proper way to describe Davidson’s basketball team, discovered Admissions Director H. Edmund White last week. Sports Illustrated asked the admissions office for statistics to back up its use of the label after the magazine received a letter to the editor challenging the term’s use. White’s search of the records showed that half of the 10 scholarship students on this year’s team ranked in the top tenth of their class. Another four in the second tenth, two in the third, and one in the fifth. The distribution of Scholastic Aptitude Test scores showed seven in the 1200-1299 range, three in the 1100-1199 range, two in the 1000-1099 range, and one each in the 900-999 and 800-899 range. Averages of SAT last year were 611 for verbal and 597 for mathematics.