Driesell To Sell Eatery

Basketball Coach and sometime restauranteur Lefty Driesell said this week that his highly publicized “Wildcat Den” is up for sale.
Mrs. Emma Payne, who has leased the Main Street restaurant from Driesell for several months, has informed him that she
will not renew her lease, Driesell said. Driesell has been advertising for a buyer in local papers, but he said
this week that he would also be willing “to find someone to rent or lease the place.” Driesell bought the
restaurant, formerly called the College Restaurant, in September of 1967 to the delight of area and national sports writers, who
have frequently mentioned it in their accounts of the varsity basketball team.

WZ sal (Staff Photo by Weems)

TOWARD A NEW MORALITY

Kaufmann outlines modern crisis.

Kaufmann Says Honesty Is Key To New Morality

By BIFF FINE
Copy Editor

Honesty and responsibility are the cornerstones of a new morality that is evolving in our times, according to Dr. Walter
Kaufmann, professor of philosophy at Princeton University. Kaufmann, a Reynolds lecturer, presented lectures Monday night and Tuesday morning in the
Morrison Room in a series entitled “The Crisis in Morality.” In the lecture, “The Birth Pangs of Honesty,” Kaufmann designated
ambition, courage, love, and honesty as determinants of morality. Kaufmann stressed that he did not intend to set up a
hierarchy of characteristics, but added that if one had to choose between following the paths suggested by love and honesty,
the choice of honesty, though sometimes unpleasant, is best.

Although the trend toward honesty as the basis of morality has accelerated greatly in the past century and is strongly
evident in campus unrest and anti-war protest today, Kaufmann pointed out passages from Micah and Amos in the 8th century
B.C. which alluded to honesty. He attacked the hypocrisy of religion in the United States, citing figures from recent polls
taken in this country and Europe pertaining to the acceptance of traditional Christian doctrine. In developing his concept of honesty,
Kaufmann traced the etymology of the word integrity over the past 200 years, stressing the fact that its meaning had
evolved from the idea of a unified whole into that of honesty of thought and action.

The emphasis placed on the present by the existentialists is one factor contributing to the rise of honesty as a
standard of morality, according to Kaufmann. Kaufmann elaborated on the role of existentialist thought in the current change in moral
standards in his second lecture, “Existentialism and Responsibility.” Kaufmann criticized Jean-Paul Sartre for acting in bad faith when he accepted
the Marxist interpretation of history. Sartre, whose lecture “Existentialism is a Humanism” introduced the word existentialism in 1946, did an
intellectually unjustified about-face when he embraced Marxist determinism in 1962.

Modern existentialists believe, as Jaspers did, that “boundary situations” such as death, despair, dread, and guilt are the points of
origin for philosophy, according to Kaufmann. They realize, as Kierkegaard did, that reason and philosophy are incapable of leading man
to the thought for which he can live and die, he said. Kaufmann attacked moral nihilism as irresponsible, stating that
reason may not provide thoughts to live for but it can protect man from thoughts not worth living and dying
for.

More Negroes Apply

By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Asst. Managing Editor

Applications for admission from Negro students have increased almost 400 percent from previous years, the office of admissions said this
week. H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, said that the increase is the result of greater activity
in recruiting from predominantly Negro high schools. “The new recruiting plans are partly a response to student desires,” he said.
“There has been a lot of interest in diversifying the student body. As a matter of fact, many individual students,
on their own, have been recruiting black prospects.”

White said that applications from 23 Negro students are being considered. “I would say that 12 of these men will
probably be accepted,” he said. “Previously, only six or seven applications were received from Negroes per year.” Davidson receives about
1000 applications and accepts about 150 each year, he said. “Some of the Negro applications are totally unrealistic,” said White,
“but each individual is being considered on his own merits and potential. We don't see any point in handling black
students as a special group.”

Free U Students Increase By 104

Davidson's Free University registrations have increased from 200 last term to 304, including 49 non-students from Charlotte and other nearby
communities. Director Rich Cowart attributed at least part of this increase to increased publicity of the program, which included an
interview about the program on WBT and write-ups in the Charlotte Observer and the Charlotte News. While registration of Queens
students is down about 50 percent over the previous program, it appears that the number of girls in the courses
will not be reduced. Although some registrants had to be turned down because courses were filled beyond capacity, Cowart said,
the Great Decisions and Beyond Conception courses are still open. Cowart said, “It seems to me that the idea of
self-learning is catching on at Davidson.” Cowart added that the films to be discussed by the Cinema as Art class
will be shown to an open audience in Chambers 208 although the class itself is filled.

Chapel Walkout Hits Worship At Queens

By JULIE YOUNG
Staff Writer

An estimated 300 Queens girls refused to enter the college's Belk Chapel for services last Wednesday, choosing to gather outside
instead. The boycott was aimed at the Queens tradition of the weekly worship service, in many respects similar to Davidson's
once required vesper service, in which seven cuts a semester are now allowed. The boycott was called by the Queens
Christian Association. Miss Mary Marshall, leader of the group, noted that many Queens students felt worship to be an area
not coming under the administration’s guidelines. Several girls added that regardless of the Christian affiliation of the college, an enforced
worship service could not be justified because of its hypocrisy. According to Miss Marshall, there is already a student-faculty committee
report on religious life calling for the abolition of compulsory chapel services. The boycott, several girls noted, is intended to
call attention to the committee's resolution.

ARTIST SERIES REHEARSALS

Miss Kombrink, Welsh prepare for performance.

Miss Kombrink To Sing ‘Songs Of Eve’

By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

The Artist Series will present soprano Ilona Kombrink in Love Auditorium on Monday night at 8:15. The highlight of her
performance will be the area premiere of “Songs of Eve” by Professor and Mrs. Wilmer H. Welsh of Davidson. Accompanied
by Arthur F. Beckwell of the University of Wisconsin, where Miss Kombrink teaches music, she will also sing several Italian
arias, five songs by Hugo Wolf, and contemporary Italian songs by Francesco Santoliquido. Mrs. Welsh wrote the words for “Songs
of Eve,” a cycle of six songs, while Welsh composed the music for Miss Kombrink's voice and piano accompaniment. “Songs
of Eve” is taken from Genesis and tells of the creation, life, and death of Eve. “It is a cycle
of life—one kind of woman's cycle of life,” Welsh said. “The story is told without supernatural overtones to make her
more meaningful for the modern day. It is a story of every woman if you wish to attach meaningful experiences
to the symbolism.” According to Welsh, with the exception of Haydn's oratorio “The Creation,” which uses the biblical language, “Songs
of Eve” is the only other musical composition.he knows which centers on Eve. Miss Kombrink has previously presented leading or
solo performances in this area in two other works by Welsh, the oratorio “Joseph” and his “Concerto for Voice and
Orchestra.”

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub Queens girls were joined in their protest by the Charlotte Observer. In an editorial entitled “Enforced Chapel Risks
Emptiness,” the newspaper noted that “It is axiomatic that worship can't be coerced, even though a requirement for student attendance
at chapel may be enforced as a matter of school policy.” The Observer's editors recognized that perhaps a strike had
been chosen without full consultation of the facts. Yet the editor, comparing the Queens problem to that at Davidson, noted
that “It is questionable whether a greater sense of community is being cultivated when compulsory chapel becomes—as it became at
Davidson College—a display of boredom, resentment and disrespect.”

Action on the problem appeared uncertain this week. However, it does appear at present as though the Queens administration and
president, Dr. John Smylie, will reexamine the chapel requirement.

AED Consultant Studies Campus
By STEVE WILLIAMS
News Editor

Dr. Victor L. Butterfield, a consultant for the Academy for Educational Development (AED), met with several campus groups this week
on a fact-finding tour. The AED is a nonprofit corporation which advises educational and other institutions on ways to improve
operations and to plan for the future. The group was contracted to make a full-scale study of Davidson.

Butterfield was president of Wesleyan College from 1943 until 1966 and has served as acting president of New College in
Sarasota, Fla. He is considered to be one of the top authorities in the nation on liberal education. Dr. Samuel
R. Spencer Jr., president of Davidson, said that Butterfield was here simply to get a preliminary overview of the college.
He talked to faculty members, students, and administrative officers in an attempt to become familiar with the college in general
and to identify some of the principal concerns of certain groups. The student group included Pat Bray, Peter Hobbie, John
Williams, Joe Murphy, Bob Dunham, and Tom Opie. He talked about several aspects of this and other colleges with this
group. Dunham said that he did not dwell on any specific item, but he did praise the honor system as
being one of the best in the country. Some of the faculty members he met with were Dr. Anthony S.
Abbott, Dr. W. G. McGavock, Dr. Thomas O. Pinkerton, and Spencer. Butterfield is one of several consultants who will visit
the campus in an effort to provide the AED with advice for their study this year. The study will be
concluded and recommendations will be made to the college by Sept. 1.

Spencer in his inaugural address had called on the college to contract an outside agency to help develop an overall
plan for dealing with such problems as financial management and campus development. The college administration decided on AED after considering
offers from several other agencies.

The Davidsonian
February 21, 1969
Page Three

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, February 21
10 a.m. Murdo McDonald, professor of practical theology from Trinity College, Glasgow, Scotland Morrison Room
3 p.m. Swimming: Johnston Gym Davidson vs. VMI
8:15 p.m. “Right You Are” Hodson Hall

Saturday, February 22
Freshman Basketball: Charlotte Davidson vs. VPI
3 p.m. Basketball: Charlotte Davidson vs. VPI
8:15 p.m. “Right You Are” Hodson Hall

Monday, February 24
All Day Piedmont Center Visiting Scholar—Morris Kline, Mathematics
6 p.m. Freshman Basketball: Clemson, S. C. Davidson vs. Clemson
8 p.m. Philanthropic Society Phi Hall
8:15 p.m. Artist Series Concert: Ilona Kombrink

Tuesday, February 25
10 a.m. Assembly: Dr. F. C. Campbell, professor of English, Morehouse College, on “An American Third World” Love Auditorium
11 a.m. Social Patterns Commission Wildcat A
3:30 p.m. Swimming: Durham Davidson vs. Duke
6:30 p.m. Student-Faculty Seminar on Poverty
7:30 p.m. Free University Classes

Wednesday, February 26
10:30 p.m. Junior Year Abroad Wildcat B Promotion for Germany

Thursday, February 27
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium Robert Taft Jr. (R-Ohio)
Evening Southern Conference Tournament

Friday, February 28
4 p.m. Dr. Edward J. Kuenzler, Chairman of the Committee on Marine Sciences, UNC-CH, on graduate study programs Charlotte 204
Dana
6 p.m. Social Patterns Commission Wildcat A
Evening Southern Conference Tournament Charlotte

Idea Of Bright Art Shows In Sauer’s ‘Flower Power’
By DANNY COLTRANE
Staff Writer

David F. Sauer's “Flower Power” paintings and banners are on display in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and in the
foyer of Chambers Building now through the end of February. Consisting of acrylic paintings and unusual cloth wall hangings, the
works are characterized by lavish use of florid colors. Sauer, 38, earned his BFA at Richmond Professional Institute and holds
a master's from Columbia University. He has done post-graduate work in oriental art history. Most of the paintings are rendered
in a style combining elements of line sketching and impressionism and feature floral subjects in natural settings. The brilliant colors
employed, though not always imitating nature, seem to be inspired by it. Sauer’s cloth banners, which he maps out on
paper and has sewn up by “a little Richmond seamstress,” produce the same sensation of complete color saturation found in
his painting. “I believe in beautiful art,” Sauer says. “This is an unpopular view now, but it is my belief.
If it is legitimate to have billboard art, it is legitimate to have beautiful art.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

There's Nothing Quite like a George Washington Sale
Ours is Thurs., Fri., and Saturday Feb. 20, 21, 22
DO NOT MISS IT!
Like..... Many Sevo Shirts, All Turtle Neck Sweaters going at 1/2 price
Our 57th Year
Mooresville
