Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A First Year’s Paper Reviewed

Newspaper, College Quite Different From Present. Paper Ends Year In The Black

The year 1914 is one of particular interest in Davidson’s 133-year history. Certainly, things have changed; but there is also an essence of similarity between that year and today, something about the Davidson experience which has remained unchanged. At least this is true if one can believe what he reads in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Today some would doubt that; but in 1914 the paper was as fresh and honest as a new politician, for it was there that the paper you are reading began. From its initial issue on, it became a valuable part of the life of students. Of course, it was run differently then. Vacancies in the staff were filled by competition. The paper was only four pages, and it was published in the paper's office, “19 S. Chambers.” The editor was still the best friend of the student government, the faculty, and the administration. At the end of the year, THE DAVIDSONIAN finished with a $9.62 balance, a feat unmatched in recent years. Oh, the good ol’ days.

The baseball team was losing even then, finishing with a deficit, but it still drew larger crowds than the basketball team. The most important news involved the chapel speakers, the senior speeches, the class rivalries, and a winning football team. It was back when Duke University was still Trinity College, and a win over Trinity was acknowledged as a greater thing than this year’s win over Trinity.

To be sure, some things were still the same. There was still the freshman-sophomore water fight. In a story headed “Freshmen Meet Their Waterloo,” the paper recounted, “No one escaped. It seemed as if the Sophs got as wet carrying water as the Fresh did catching it. Even Juniors were wet by mistake and the general effect was rather dampening.” There was still a debate team, but it was played up to a greater significance in those days. There was a revision in the student body constitution during the year “replacing the inefficiency and ambiguity” of the old one.

But Davidson College itself then was also different. The rules still existed, and surprisingly there was little protest of them. The Code of Ethics — now the Honor Code — included all that the present code includes and added to it the violation of “hazing,” for which one could be suspended from school. The Oct. 28 DAVIDSONIAN noted that during a special College Day commencement program there were “no chapel exercises before breakfast,” on that day. There being only a handful of fraternities at the time, the paper was quite careful to print any and all town announcements and news.

Editorial content today is a bit different from what it was in 1914. In that year, editor F. W. Price found need to comment on a number of issues ignored by his successors in recent years. He wrote each week on the football team’s victories or losses. He boosted the ideals of school spirit and of the Davidson tradition, and he provided a rousing defense of the Code of Ethics. In one issue, Price offered his unqualified support of the faculty in reaction to the faculty’s decision to grant the students’ petition to lengthen the Christmas holidays (which ran that year from Dec. 23 through Jan. 5). Perhaps the most interesting editorial of the year — not to detract from the quality of the others — was Price’s editorial against the town law prohibiting roller skating on the sidewalks. (He wrote it for the benefit of town children, not himself.)

But the biggest change in Davidson and in editorials came in the Feb. 3, 1915 edition of the paper, when Price wrote an editorial urging attendance at basketball games, because attendance and interest weren’t so good. He cited, among other things, that the new floor of the indoor gym would aid the Wildcats’ game.

THE DAVIDSONIAN of 1914 was indeed different from its modern-day counterpart. Students were less concerned with curriculum revision, area exams, and the like in 1914. What bothered them was the lack of school spirit at a rally or something which injured the concept of the Davidson Gentleman. At times one stops to wonder why the big difference, but it really comes as a change in attitude derived from the change in times. They were editorializing on the war then, too. But it was a different war and it produced a different attitude. The football team was winning, but it was more important to people then for some reason, and the entire student body was liable to pile onto a train bound for an away game. There was a livelier spirit about the “Davidson thing” then. Looking back on it, one sometimes wishes the spirit were still here today.

But one thing hasn’t changed that much. That is the editor’s desire to put out a paper worth reading. Said Price, “If you do not like our paper, tell us so, and tell us why. We will try to remedy the defect. If you do like our paper, be sure to tell us, for the life of the amateur journalist is one of trials and tribulations, and we are in need of whatever encouragement we may receive.”

---

J.H. WERTZ
The Fancy Grocer
A trial and BE CONVINCED that he is the leader in LOW PRICES
National Biscuit Co.'s Goods A Specialty
Fresh Fruits Always On Hand

---

RJ. SHELTON
Eng Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.

---

WANTED — To half-sole that pair of shoes.
WANTED — To hire you an auto. C. B. Moon.

---

The Davidsonian Report During its first

---

(Note: The last line appears to be incomplete and may need additional context to be fully understood.)Year of publication, THE DAVIDSONIAN became one of the most exciting facets of student life, playing the role of communication between students and alumni. A great deal of the credit for its success certainly goes to Frank Price, its first editor. The 1915 QUIPS AND CRANKS commented on this Francis Wilson Price: “Frank's ability has developed THE DAVIDSONIAN during its first year; his brilliance has won him a reputation; his eloquence has brought him distinction in public speaking; his facile pen finds eager readers; he turns off work every minute.” The old “gentleman and scholar” cliché would fit Price well. Now a retired missionary to China, he was active in his college days in many areas of interest, and during his distinguished missionary career he managed to publish a number of books on China and on the United Nations in China. In honor of his work in getting “this controversial paper” started, this year’s staff offers this week's “Report” to Dr. Frank Price, of Lexington, Va. All stories were written by Bob Dunham, the 57th editor in succession of Price.

Football Team Wins Big
“Shag” Anderson Elected Yell Leader

The 1914 football team had something in common with the Davidson team today. It won ball games. The team played the likes of the University of Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Wake Forest, and Clemson, and they still won. They finished 5-1-1-1. (We'll explain that shortly.) That year, 1914, was the year of the team they called the “Red and Black Electric Machine,” and unlike some of the electricity of the times, the team kept generating. It was the day when 900 students would load onto a train to make the trip to Winston-Salem for the Carolina game. It was the day when “Shag” Anderson was “yell leader.” And it was the day when spirit rode even higher than it does today.

The year started off with a victory of sorts, for the “Machine” held a tough Clemson team to a 0-0 tie, while playing a ball-control game. Editor F. W. Price wrote in the following week’s edition about “the irresistible fighting spirit which awakened from its seven-year slumber; never to sleep again.” The following week the team played sloppily, but still won, 22-7 over Newberry, a team with “lots of pep.” Those of you who saw the Davidson-Furman game this year should have been around in 1914, when in the season's third game, Davidson capitalized on “interference of superior class” to stomp Wofford, 86-6. The paper noted the following week, “Wofford put up a game fight to the very last minute of play, but were powerless on account of lack of experience.”

The Red and Black Machine toppled The Citadel, 16-0, in a “grueling contest” before dropping their lone contest of the year to perpetual nemesis North Carolina. Of the fateful Carolina game, Price wrote, “the score does not begin to tell how close and hard-fought the game really was, for though outscored, the Davidsonians were not outplayed.” Though Lefty Driesell would frown upon it, it was commonly agreed in football circles of the day that Davidson’s “game fight” won for the school a “moral victory.” Lefty once likened “moral victories” to kissing one’s sister. After all, UNC beat Georgia that year by seven touchdowns.

The final “one” in the 5-1-1-1 was produced by Furman, who canceled the week of the scheduled game because, “in several hard games which they had previously played, the team had been so seriously crippled and broken up that the team they would have to bring, should they come, would be their Scrub team.” In a game “hard and furious” throughout, Davidson toppled South Carolina, 13-7. The paper commented on the breaks which USC failed to capitalize upon, including a punt which went only ten yards before going out of bounds. Said the paper, “The ball was wet and hard to punt.” A likely excuse.

The Machine closed out its season as the Presbyterians beat the Baptists in the Church Bowl in Charlotte, defeating a tough Wake Forest team, 7-6. The Wake team left the field with six minutes to play in protest of the referee’s decision on Davidson’s extra point. Ah yes, those were the days... when Davidson had a winning football team and a losing basketball team. Things have finally evolved to the proper sports perspective. Now we win both.

Send Your Suit To
MAREW PRESSING CLUB
WML. E. WILLIAMS, Agent
And let a white man give you a white job.
23 Chambers