Page Six May 2, 1969

outside perspective
By DICK ANDERSON

Presidential Dismay At W & M

At the College of William and Mary, some 212 students have signed an open letter calling for the resignation of
W&M President Paschall. The letter accused the president of following a “reactionary and misguided policy of educational leadership." Miss Nancy
Verser, acting editor of The Flat Hat, the W&M student newspaper, said that the president had told her that all
students who had signed the letter would be asked to defend the accusations in the letter in the presence of
their parents in the president's office. However, Paschall has denied making such a statement. One sophomore reacted to the letter
by circulating a letter in support of Paschall and collecting 160 signatures.

Presbyterians Approve Evolution

“I don't see how you can be a Christian without being liberal,” said Dr. Matthew Lynn, the newly elected moderator
of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. Before adjourning April 30, the 109th General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. approved a
resolution inviting the General Assembly of the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. to study a plan of reunion with
them. The two churches have been split since the Civil War. The Assembly reversed an 86-year-old stand holding evolution in
conflict with the Christian faith. A resolution asserting the right of young men to conscientiously object in any way they
choose also passed. It included a section urging Congress to provide suitable alternatives in military or civilian service for conscientious
objectors.

Blacks Take Over Belmont Building

Seven black students at Belmont Abbey College held the Gaston Science Building at the college for a little better than
ten hours on Tuesday. Taking over the building at approximately 4 a.m., they relinquished their control at 2:30 p.m. The
takeover was without incident except for the untimely and unwarranted interference of Gaston County Sheriff Dwight L. Beam. Beam arrested
Howard Fuller, a militant who had spoken to the Abbey student body, for “trespassing.” Fuller had been acting as an
advisor to the black students and as a go-between with the college administration. After an hour of meeting with the
black students, the Very Reverend Jude Cleary, O.S.B., President of Belmont Abbey College, said that he foresaw future discussion and
a possible solution to the grievances stated by the Union. He said that he hoped that Fuller would act as
a spokesman for the black students. He stated further, however, that Belmont Abbey has no financial resources for a Black
studies program at the present time. Father Jude criticized Beam for his arrest of Fuller and three other Abbey students.
“Nobody,” said Father Jude, “requested the sheriff's presence on campus, as far as I know. Our whole purpose was to
avoid the use of civil authority.”

Curfew Proposals To Student Life Committee

Fraternity curfews have been suspended for Spring Frolics, and the report covering curfews and other administrative rules has been referred
to the faculty Student Life Committee by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Asst. Dean of Students Jim Terry said yesterday
that the Dean's Council had decided to remove all curfews for Friday night and Saturday night. However, he said a
midnight curfew would be in effect Sunday night. TFC judicial board chairman Dave Wasserman said that the judicial board would
enforce whatever curfews were imposed. Spencer, who must make the decision about new administrative rules which have been formulated as
a follow-up to the passage of the Code of Responsibility, said this week that he would await a recommendation from
the faculty committee. The president said that students would have a voice in such recommendations through the three student members
of the SLC. Student committee members are SGA President Peter Hobbie, junior Joe Kilpatrick, and sophomore Dick Allison.

Fraternity Cooks

(Continued From Page 1)

replied that the federal minimum of $1.60 per hour plus overtime for work done over the forty-hour limit was to
be used. Others present disagreed, claiming that a fair wage should appreciably raise the cooks’ standards of living. Some fraternity
men present attacked the figures of the group, claiming that the sheet left out payments to the cooks, other than
take-home pay, which are significant. Sigma Chi House Manager Mike Milton pointed out that his house pays all of the
cook’s Social Security, provided a five-week vacation with pay, and takes care of some of their taxes. Pika President Sam
Tallman noted that the Pika cooks received his house's excess food. ATO House Manager Clinton Stretch said that the cooks’
job was desirable to them at the present wage rate, as witnessed by the fact that they stay on the
job when higher pay and shorter hours were available elsewhere. Several of those present pointed out the fact that the
cooks work unduly long hours. It was also argued that there is an inordinate disparity between the pay of manual
and non-manual labor on the Davidson campus. John F. Callender, instructor of Classics, observed that, “The paternalistic and personal nature
of the relationship of fraternity men being what it is, fraternity men would do well to gain the good will
of the cooks by improving their salaries before they demand a change.” Noting that polarization of opinion had been reached,
Phillips adjourned the meeting, stating that another would be held in the next week to see what progress had been
made. It was pointed out that, in the face of fraternity refusal to make the changes, action by the college
might be sought. Pyeatt said that the figures on the Beta Theta Pi cooks, as contained on the committee’s sheet
were incorrect. He noted that the correct figures are $60 per week for 41 hours work.

SGA Budget Has Large Surplus

By TOM SINKS
Staff Writer

Two-thirds of the SGA budget still remains unspent with a month to go in the school year. According to Andy
Goodson, the SGA treasurer, approximately $2225 is left in the SGA account. The approved budget for the SGA is $2975
for the 1968-69 year. Goodson said that there was about $2600 in the SGA account when Peter Hobbie took office.
Hobbie, SGA president, indicated that part of the surplus resulted because the student exchanges program has not been implemented this
year and because less has been spent on the speaker symposium than was expected. The student exchange program was budgeted
$350 and the speaker fund $1000. Only $350 has been spent for a speaker. $300 has been informally allocated to
finance Hobbie’s ten-day trip to El Paso, Texas for the National Student Association (NSA) convention. The Senate has neither appropriated
nor refused to appropriate this outlay, but Hobbie has insisted on keeping it in the budget. However, freshman Senator Cecil
Burney's proposal that money be spent to bring a nationally famous speaker to campus met with Hobbie's disapproval. Hobbie indicated
to Burney and to the Senate that he thought this money, if not spent, should be returned to the college.
But he indicated to a reporter that he was generally in agreement with the idea. Appropriations for the Honor Court
have also been given at least informal approval. Reporters were unable to determine whether official appropriation has been made. But
according to SGA Secretary Tom Vernon, the Honor Court had requested only $27 and was given $150, for reasons unknown.
Of the $750 that has been spent under Hobbie, only two appropriations were formally approved by the Senate. The Senate
appropriated $350 to pay John Gilligan, who spoke at the Great Issues Symposium in March. This item was part of
the formally approved budget. The second appropriation earmarked $250 for Belk Dormitory projects and the RHA. The remaining $150 that
has been spent has been spent to pay bills for office supplies, telephone calls, and similar expenses. Andy Goodson, the
SGA treasurer, said that he ordinarily pays these bills after checking with an SGA official to make sure it is
a valid expenditure. Hobbie said that he felt he had the tacit approval of the Senate in paying for these
general expenses. Hobbie said that he “was not going to concern the Senate with just general expenditures.” Although this is
the third year in a row there has been a surplus in the SGA treasury, Hobbie does not

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
JOHN FINE

Assistant Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
MARK HODGES

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
BILL LINEAWEAVER

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
DON PARMAN
A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Asst. Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Advertising Manager:
JIM ROY

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Bill Sherwood, Gene Linton, Norwood Poland, Tom Sinks, Tom Dasher, Jule Young, Steve Roady, Dan Graham, Jim Philips, Joe Smith,
Chris Bickley, and Charlie Terrell.Plan to reduce his budget request for the 1969-70 year. He said the SGA budget request
would be approximately $3000.

Burney Leads Freshmen With Breakfast Protest

Freshman Senator Cecil Burney precipitated a small crisis in the Senate Executive Committee Wednesday night by issuing a personal call
to freshmen to go to the breakfast, which they normally miss, on Thursday morning. 138 students ate breakfast Thursday morning,
as compared to an average of 50 who eat on most mornings. In a mimeographed letter to all freshmen, Burney
called for the ‘eat-in’ in order to show that Slater Food Service could not serve “all the freshmen who wanted
to eat the breakfast his fees paid for.” The protest was aimed at the early serving hours for breakfast (7:15
to 8:15 a.m.) and also the fact that students are paying for breakfasts they don’t eat, and Burney hoped to
prove that the food service was not prepared to serve them.

The move was countered by SEC member Sterling Abernathy, who called cafeteria manager Klaus Kleeburg late Wednesday night and warned
him to expect about 200 students for breakfast. SGA President Peter Hobbie intervened on the side of Abernathy. In a
30-minute conference with Burney late Wednesday night, Hobbie accused Burney of using student government supplies without authorization. Burney had charged
the mimeographing expenses to the Senate but had left a note explaining that he would repay the cost from his
own money.

Abernathy, who headed efforts to improve the food service earlier this year, was angered that the plan had bypassed his
committee and the normal channels of the Senate in general.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
(Advertisement)

ERICA, EROS & YOUNG

In the first place, their work is almost entirely original. With several songs from the “Mr. Bojangles” man, Jerry Jeff
Walker, and using one or two other writers sparingly, their work is fresh. Secondly, they are a step beyond the
folk music which coffeehouses have spawned from their outset. They move beyond folk and folk-rock into a realm of “almost
rock.” Their material is similar to that of a group such as We Five. And then the final distinctive feature,
a dependence more on their musical talents than on their rapport with the audience. Their work is polished.

The lead vocalist with the group, and certainly the eye-catcher, is Erica Schmitz. A tall, pretty blonde, she has an
alto voice which ranges from soft to extremely loud. With the Davidson audience, Erica seemed a bit uncomfortable. Her smiles
seemed forced, and during the break, she noted only “One more school and then back to New York.”

Dick Seale sings the male lead and plays the lead guitar. He smiles as he sings and seems to come
to the front on the softer songs. A sensitive performer, Seale stood out on opening night with two of Walker's
songs, “My Old Man” and “Mr. Bojangles.” But the key to the group seems to be Jon Addelson. His songs
form most of the group's material, and his stage personality wins what is lost by the other two. Addelson was
the only member of the trio who seemed perfectly at ease on opening night. His humor and his sensitivity for
the songs he wrote carried the group well. The most open of the group, he expressed later his dissatisfaction with
the talking and the laughter in the audience during the performance, but it was never evident on the stage.

The show will continue tonight and tomorrow night after the Social Council concerts. There will be two shows, one at
11 p.m. and another at 12:15 a.m., separated by two “Frankenstein” shorts.

By BILL LINEAWEAVER - Asst. Managing Editor

The principle of the Experimental College was found to be generally acceptable by key members in Montreat last weekend. President
Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, and Dean of Students
Richard C. Burts, Jr. were among a mixed group of outside consultants, alumni, and members of Davidson’s faculty, administration, and
student body, who discussed plans for Davidson's future. Three major topics were discussed: the Experimental College, admission policies, and student
internships.

The Experimental College, an idea developed at Davidson by sophomore Rich Cowart, who also headed the first Free University, is
a program in which eligible students would be permitted to originate projects outside of the formal curriculum and receive college
credits upon the successful development of those projects. Although the specific program was delayed for revision, the meeting endorsed the
general idea as being a good way to expand the educational opportunities Davidson could offer. “It could possibly become a
combination of an Honors College and an independent study program,” said Gil Holland, associate professor of English, who attended the
meeting.

The submitted program was not judged to be fully workable in the form in which it was spelled out at
the meeting. “The two main obstacles seem to be cost and academic credit,” said Holland. “There seem to be, however,
ways to solve these problems so that the program could be started next year.” Steve Engstrom and Danny Clodfelter, two
students who attended, were generally impressed with the enthusiasm of everyone concerned. The final plan must be approved by the
faculty Educational Policy Committee, whose chairman is Johnston. One of the outside consultants summed up the situation at the end
of the meeting by saying, “It’s now a chance for the students to put up or shut up.”

Spencer expressed hope that “a pilot program similar to that mentioned in the Montreat proposal could be arranged.” Dr. Edgar
Whan of Ohio University attended the meeting and was left with a very favorable picture of the free exchange of
ideas between Davidson students and the faculty and administration. “I came here with a Davidson stereotype,” he said, “but I
don’t leave with one.”

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated
300 E. Morehead Charlotte
Behind Contes Soda Shop
(Staff Photo by Weems)

Experimental Paths Endorsed In Theory

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

For All Your Spring Frolics Needs
See Davidson Grocery
Beer at Reduced Prices
Wine Mixers
Crushed Ice
(Advertisement)

PROPOSED REVISIONS OF THE CODE OF RESPONSIBILITY

The following is the text of the proposed revisions in the Code of Responsibility, announced in accordance with provisions for
amendment of the code:

Add on page 2 before the last sentence of the section Honor System: “Every student found guilty of a violation
shall ordinarily be dismissed from the College.”

Add on page 2 at the end of the section ACADEMIC RESPONSIBILITY: “Acts of basic dishonesty that are not technically
violations of the Honor Code may be dealt with by the Regulations Court.”

Add on page 4 this revision of the last sentence of the first paragraph of the section FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES:
“Firearms kept on campus must be kept in accordance with Senate Regulations.”

In Article II, Judiciary, Section 1, add the following as part ‘C’, and change ‘C’ to ‘D’, ‘D’ to ‘E’,
and ‘E’ to ‘F’ of that section:
“C. Court of Appeals
“The Court of Appeals shall consist of six members, three students and three faculty. The Faculty Executive Committee shall appoint
three of its members to serve staggered three-year terms. The Student Senate shall appoint three of its members, one Sophomore,
Junior, and Senior, to serve staggered three-year terms. Each student member will serve until the inauguration of a new member
of the Court his senior year. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner.
“The Court of Appeals shall receive and decide appeals from the Regulations Court, the Honor Court, and Administrative decisions of
the Dean of Students.”

In Section II, part B, the words “Faculty Executive Committee” shall be replaced by “Court of Appeals.”

Section IV, part A of page 8 shall be revised to read: “The Investigating Committee shall consist of three members,
including a chairman, appointed by the Student Senate.”

Also in Section IV, part B, the word “shall” is changed to “may.”

Also in Section IV, part D, the first sentence shall be revised to read: “Except in extreme emergencies, dormitory rooms
and student vehicles shall not be searched by college personnel except when so authorized by the Dean of Students or
the Chairman of the appropriate court.” This shall be added as the last sentence of that part: “This paragraph is
not intended to limit in any way actions of civil authorities.”

In Section V, of Article III on page 8, the words: “Appointed in accordance with II, 4 of the SGA
Constitution.” shall be replaced by the phrase “Appointed by the Senate.”

Under Section VIII, on page 10, part C. “Court of Appeals” shall be added as follows and the previous part
‘C’ to ‘D’ and ‘D’ to ‘E’.
C. Court of Appeals
The Court of Appeals shall elect its own chairman and establish its rules of procedure.

Also in Section VII, part E shall have its last sentence revised to read: “The Chairmen are responsible for informing
the student body of their respective codes at the beginning of each academic year.”
