Page Six October 24, 1969

ISHIDA VIEWS JAPANESE :) (Staff photo by Davidson) CULTURE

International student initiated informal get-acquainted series.

Iio, Ishida Discuss Orient In First ‘Coffee’ Discussion

Bringing a general taste of the Orient to the first International Students program in a series entitled “Around the World
in 80 Cups of Coffee,” Masafumi (Buff) Ishida and Norihiko (Nori) Iio described their native Japan. After giving Tuesday's audience
a brief overview of Japanese culture, geography, food, education, and social customs, Ishida and Iio showed slides illustrating Japanese sights
and shrines.

Designed to be informal coffee-house chats about the home countries of Davidson's foreign students, “Around the World” was set up
to stimulate student curiosity and encourage the community to take advantage of its opportunity to learn about the countries from
which the international students come. The object, according to student volunteer Curtis Smith, is to “raise the question (at the
program) and answer it somewhere else.” Along this line, Ishida plans to bring out several pamphlets describing various aspects of
Japanese life, and also intends to offer any interested students a chance to learn some Japanese in an informal class,
which would meet two or three times a week.

The problem last year, according to Smith, was that the international students never had a sufficient chance to present their
countries to Davidson. “These coffees were designed to remedy this,” he explained.

Student Accepts ‘Grave’ Mission

By BILL DAVENPORT Staff Writer

Blah about working in the cafeteria? Frustrated because all the jobs at Lefty's are taken? Why not try Davidson sophomore
Rick van de Water's job: digging graves.

“I was sitting in the library last week when Guy stomped in and said, ‘Hey, how about a grave digging
job?’ When he mentioned how much money we would make, I didn't have any objections.”

Their employer, Cathey Hoyle Funeral Home, has a professional gravedigger, who refuses to work on weekends. Reporting for work at
ten o'clock last Saturday morning, Rick and Guy were given special gravediggers’ shovels, only about two feet long. Instead of
the traditional six-by-six-foot pit, their masterpiece was thirty-six inches by ninety-two inches, and four feet deep.

“But it was hard work,” emphasizes Rick. Taking only occasional time out to philosophize, “we worked five hours on Saturday
and didn't get finished until three o'clock Sunday”—one hour before the funeral. In addition, they had to help the professional
“vault man,” and “it’s easy to get a casket stuck while lowering it.” After the burial, they had to smooth
away the hump, which during the service is covered by artificial grass.

ROTC (Continued From Page 1)

dience and from time to time making two-word entries on a narrow pad fitted into the top of his hat.
When Brinkley, of the major, moved closer to see what was written on the pad, the major moved it out
of sight. And when Len tried to get close enough to see the pad, the major flipped his hat over
so that the pad could not be seen at all.

“I do not know what he was doing,” said Brinkley, “but from observing him alternately scanning the audience, and then
making entries on the pad, I think it to be a natural inference under the circumstances.”

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors: ED SHI Sports Editor: RUSS MUR Copy Editor: VON HO Assistant Copy Editor: STEVE PAORS News Editor: JOHN
FINE Assistant Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSET

Contributors this week: Bill Davenport, Rich Wilson, Neil Coghill, Chris Johnson, George Kaneklides, Bill Gray Wilson, Paul Johnson, and Bill
Mayfield.

Photography Editors: ROGERS, MOBLEY, CULL

Circulation Managers: HIRST, MOBLEY

And The Beautiful

A REVIEW By DON HOYT

Ticket prices automatically increase at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, whenever Margot Fonteyn or Rudolf Nureyev is scheduled to
perform. Nevertheless, both appeared at Hodson Hall on Tuesday night in the Prokofiev ballet “Romeo and Juliet” and the admission
charge was only fifty cents. Of course, the ballet presented was a film of the London production.

When you came to Davidson, you opted for a rural, nineteenth-century existence instead of an exciting and vital cultural life;
you'll have to be content with fleeting images of the great.

Criticizing the movie is difficult because one has to separate the form from the content and recognize the difficulties inherent
in making a film of a ballet. The problem is analogous to putting a poem into prose: the media are
separate and distinct, each effective, but neither readily convertible into the other.

The reason for placing a ballet on film in the first place is that it is then available to people
who otherwise would not be able to see it. A second advantage of the filmed production is its permanence. Another
advantage is that the camera, unlike the spectator in the theatre, is mobile and can view the action using a
variety of perspectives. This is especially useful for an appreciation of the subtler movements of the dance and the acting
of dancers, who like Fonteyn, are fine actors. Of course, some dancers, like Nureyev, always manage to look the same,
no matter what the situation, and no advantage is gained.

However, a mobile camera also has a distinct disadvantage: in showing us one aspect of a scene, it necessarily eliminates
or minimizes others, and a ballet’s effect depends to a large extent upon the total spectacle. A mobile camera also
shows us some things which we really shouldn't see, such as the dancer's skin, glistening with perspiration. Dancing is incredibly
difficult work, but the audience would prefer not to be reminded of the fact.

We were also given too close a view of Juliet. Fonteyn, perhaps the finest ballet dancer in the world, dances
the part beautifully, but the camera's proximity was unflattering.part of Juliet with grace and control that is hard for anyone
to match. Her acting conveys innocence and purity perfectly in what we normally associate with the character, but it is
a physical impossibility for her, at fifty, to always appear as the fourteen-year-old Juliet. Fonteyn, however, would be equal, conveying
an ingenue's purity.

In recognition of the finest football team in Davidson's history, the College Union has planned the longest and most varied
program of Homecoming activities ever. A football pep rally on the Union porch kicks off the homecoming festivities at 7
p.m. on Friday, Oct. 31, followed at 8 by “Die Fliedermaus,” an Artist Series presentation.

THE ACTIVIST AND THE GIRLS
Certainly one of the more delightful features of Davidson’s Free University is its attraction of coeds from Queens College. A
number of Queens students are attending this fall’s Free U classes, held each Tuesday evening. A wide variety of courses
outside the normal class catalogue is available, taught by students, professors, and staff. Sam Johnson, a Davidson senior, leads his
class on the student activist and his role in education. (Staff Photo by Davidson.)

Abortion (Continued From Page 1)
Most American Catholics and most Protestant denominations justify some abortion. The conflict lies between the right of the unborn and
the rights of the mother. The problem is complicated by issues of contraception and the question of when life begins.

Davis (Continued From Page 1)
When asked about contentment with abortion as a regular medical procedure, the panel members responded very differently. The law is
vitally concerned. “It certainly should be,” said one panelist. “I don’t know,” said another. “Anti-abortion should be seen as a
violation of personal rights,” said a third.

The ballet per se, though, was very well done; the individual routines were beautifully executed. Almost since Rudolph Nureyev's defection
from the USSR in 1961, he has danced opposite Fonteyn, and the two have formed one of the greatest teams
in ballet history. The production's major fault, one hard to excuse since it is easily correctable in a film, was
the lack of coordination in the corps’ dancing, which was frequently inexact and hence ineffective. Let no one be misled:
I thoroughly enjoyed “Romeo and Juliet.” If my discourse has been critical, it is because one must understand why the
bad is bad in order to appreciate the good. The fact that there are technical difficulties in filming a ballet
does not affect the beauty of the artistic expression. Nowadays, one hardly can expect such a beautiful production; when Fonteyn
and Nureyev return to Davidson, raise the price.

“Die Fliedermaus” (“The Bat”) is a comic opera by Strauss and will be performed by the Turnau Opera Players, a
small touring company which has been enthusiastically received across the country, even by sophisticated New York audiences. A combo party
featuring “The Rivieras” starts at 10 in Chambers dining hall. At 11 p.m., Franco Zeffirelli’s production of “Romeo and Juliet”
will be shown in the Morrison Room. After the movie, doughnuts, coffee, and the folk music of Steve Gillette—a California
singer recognized as a master of the “pop-folk” style—opens the first of two Union Coffeehouse productions during the weekend. Lasting
until dawn, a movie thriller, “Dead Man's Eyes,” and two “Spook Spectaculars” complete the Halloween night's activities. Each “Spook Spectacular”
combines horror sensations and a movie cartoon.

Homecoming activities for Nov. 1 start at noon with the traditional outdoor Alumni Luncheon, followed at 2 p.m. by the
Davidson-VMI football game in Richardson Stadium. The “Preservation Hall Jazz Band” will present a jazz concert in Love Auditorium from
4:45 to 6:45. This nationally recognized group plays music from New Orleans but lends to each number its own distinctive
interpretation—the interpretation which gave birth to all modern jazz forms. Following a Saturday evening supper from 6:30 to 8, the
Social Council will present the second concert of the day—that of the “Rotary Connection”—in Love Auditorium. At 10:30 p.m., students
have another opportunity to see “Romeo and Juliet,” or may attend a combo party hosted by “The Good, Bad, and
Ugly.” “Rings and Things” return to Davidson at 2 a.m. for the second production of the Union Coffeehouse. Only a
few weeks ago, this group played at Davidson's first Hungry I and met with a favorable student response. A steak-and-egg
breakfast at 4 and a folk worship service at 6 complete the weekend’s activities, thirty-six hours after they began.

THINK CHICKEN! ALWAYS KENTUCKY FRIED FOR PARTIES & MOUNTAIN TRIPS
We have not only Chicken but also Fish and Shrimp for Saturday Supper
503 S. Broad
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505
2429 CENTRAL AVENUE
CHARLOTTE
