Lx CARY HITS ROTC ACTION (See Page Two)

Presidents Vow Support Of IFC

A statement issued this week by the presidents of Davidson's twelve fraternity houses showed the increasing desire of fraternities to be involved in the activities and programs of the Davidson College community, according to its author. John Baker, President of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, presided at several preliminary meetings and led the fraternity presidents into making the resolution, which supported the spirit of the Interfraternity Council. This proposal for united fraternity contributions to the community includes plans for a lecture series sponsored by the IFC and a special weekend.

The statement said in part that “as a co-ordinator for the efforts of some 70 per cent of the student body, the IFC should assume a new role of importance as a functional and representative student organization. This is not intended to herald a resurgence of ‘fraternity political power’ or ‘fraternity nationalism.’” Baker said that the statement was conceived in partial response to the rather unclear definition of the IFC's base of power. The proposal has been approved and endorsed by all the presidents of the twelve fraternities at a meeting of the house presidents last Thursday, October 16.

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1969
NUMBER FIVE

Presidents’ Letter

We, the undersigned fraternity representatives, do hereby reaffirm our unqualified support of and respect for the Interfraternity Council at Davidson College. We wish not only to ensure its viability but also to promote it as a dynamic and functional part of the College Community.

We sincerely believe that the time has come to end the IFC’s passive role on this campus. The IFC can and should function as a much-needed “liaison” not only between the fraternities but also between fraternities and the College Community as a whole. Such a positive relationship between the “Hill” and the “Court” would be beneficial to all concerned. The IFC, with the united support of all fraternities, could enhance this relationship.

The present “authority” of the IFC is ill-defined. Lack of support for the IFC has placed its usefulness and even its existence in a very questionable light. We only wish to assure the College Community that henceforth the IFC, with the support of the fraternity members, will play an active part in the social and academic life of Davidson College. This is a promise which will be kept.

We promise that the fraternities, through the IFC, will sponsor social and educational activities for the entire College Community. An “IFC Weekend” and an “IFC Lecture Series” have already been discussed and approved by the undersigned representatives. Such functions would be open to the College Community as a whole. As the “co-ordinator” for the efforts of some 70% of the student body, the IFC should assume a new role of importance as a functional and representative student organization. This is not intended to herald a resurgence of “fraternity political power” or “fraternity nationalism.” Rather, it is a united effort on the part of concerned individuals to make the present system as useful as possible.

We, the undersigned, therefore resolve to support our words with actions. We feel that our efforts will be in the best interests of the entire College Community. This is our positive contribution to Davidson College.

Services Assist 20 Area Colleges

If you were to mention the Piedmont University Center of North Carolina in casual conversation, almost no one would know what you were talking about. Those who have heard anything about it know only through the Center’s Visiting Scholars Program. But the Piedmont University Center of North Carolina provides numerous other services and advantages for the twenty member institutions. The Center's programs include regular meetings of member college Business Managers on common fiscal problems, cooperative booking of performing artists, joint publication of an annual cultural events calendar, financial support of faculty research, an extensive film library, a cooperative book-purchasing plan, and most importantly, the Visiting Scholars Program.

The Piedmont University Center is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of the Presidents of the twenty participating colleges. Dr. J. Earl Danieley, President of Elon College, is President of the plan, and Dr. Paul A. Reid, former professor of history at Davidson College, is Executive Director.

The Visiting Scholars Program, founded in 1963, sends distinguished scholars from colleges and universities all over the United States and from Canada to lecture at the member institutions. More than eighty scholars and teachers have participated in this program. Each visit lasts three or four days, during which the scholar presents two formal lectures each day at one or more member colleges. The Center prepares a detailed itinerary for each lecturer from the requests of the member colleges. The format of a typical visit may include open assemblies, classroom sessions, or informal group discussions. How the visiting scholar should make his best contribution is up to the discretion of the host college.

All faculty members at participating colleges are eligible for financial assistance for research projects from the Center's Committee on Faculty Research. Applications for research aid are screened by the Committee and grants are awarded each spring for the following academic year. Reports are due the following October.

Meetings of the Business Managers of the member colleges cover all aspects of fiscal management and maintenance of the campus plant. Each participant presents questions concerning his own institution, and then hears how the other administrators handle similar aspects and problems.Concerning ment and raises the same problem on their campuses. Great that these improvements have come out of sessions. These include the centralized collection of National Defense Student Loans by Wachovia Services, Inc. The committee is also discussing cooperative purchasing of materials (See PIEDMONT, Page 6).

Trustees To Hear Spencer’s Plan

President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. will recommend changes based on the five commission reports at the meeting of the Davidson College Board of Trustees next Friday. “Mr. Lingle (Walter L. Lingle, president of the Board of Trustees) and I plan to use this meeting for discussion and with a specially called meeting in January to take final action,” Spencer said. “The college will publish the commission reports shortly after the meeting so that everyone concerned will have the opportunity to discuss the recommendations before final action is taken in January,” he said.

The trustees usually only meet at Homecoming and once in the spring. The January meeting was a response to the heavy workload caused by the proposals stemming from the commission reports. Spencer said that it was unlikely that all proposals would be acted upon at the January meeting. “Because of the volume of decisions and their interrelated character, not all decisions will be made in January,” he said. Some proposals will be carried over until the meeting on May 2 or next year.

In addition to hearing proposals based on the commission reports, the trustees will vote on whether to allocate funds for the renovation of Gannon and Past dormitories. Action is scheduled on guidelines for fraternities wishing to break with their affiliation. The trustees will also handle the routine business of passing on to the faculty and staff. A list of honorary degree recipients will be drawn at this time, but the names will not be made public.

Abortion Panel Reaches Three-Way Conclusion

By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

Wednesday night, Davidson College hosted a symposium on the topic of abortion. About 200 people, including many women, attended the discussion (which was advertised as “a question of life or death”) in Hodson Hall. The featured guest was Dr. John Ashur, M.D., an instructor in the Obstetrics and Gynecology department at Emory School of Medicine and head of Abortion Services at Grady Memorial Hospital. Jimmy Trussell, a Davidson graduate who is presently a lawyer practicing in Charlotte, formed the remainder of a three-man panel which discussed the general questions concerning abortion and attempted to deal with questions and discussion from the audience. Jimmy Trussell, a student at Davidson, acted as moderator.

Ashur opened the program with an outline of abortion as a legal, social, and medical problem. He pointed out that several groups are presently very active in the modification or repeal of abortion laws. The population control groups are also seeking abortion laws on various grounds. The population problems are also a factor. Abortion has been shown to be very effective in curbing the birth rate in such areas as Japan and Eastern Europe. Two films were shown, each illustrating aspects of legal abortion. Both films were interviews with women who had undergone abortions.

(See ABORTION, Page 6)

SGA, RHC Men Picked By Ballot

Nine SGA Senators, eight RHC Representatives, the Freshman Class Cheerleader, and the Freshman and Junior Class Presidents were elected in balloting held Oct. 20 and 21 under the supervision of Jim Hinshaw. The SGA Senators elected by the dormitories are Danny Clodfelter of Belk East, Lawrence Wilkinson of Belk Center, Jody Turner of Belk West, Pierce Irby of Duke, Cliff Duke of Little, Brent Lane of Cannon, and John Hopkins of East. The three Freshman Class SGA Senators elected at large are Gerry Bello, Jack Nichols, and Jim Claunch. Jim Claunch became the Freshman Class President because he got the most votes in the at-large race.

The RHC Representatives are Charlie Summers of Belk East, David Russell of Belk Center, Ken Prestwich of Belk West, Edward Dail of Duke, Steve Roady of Richardson, William Gregory of Little, Bruce Snyder of East, and Rick Whitener of Cannon. Bill Gupton was elected Freshman Class Cheerleader. No SGA Senator was elected from Richardson because there were no candidates.

(Staff photo by Davidson)

DR. DAVIS TAKES TIME FOR CALL
New physician kept busy by students.

Threats To M-Day Protesters Denied

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

Col. Virgil Foster Wednesday denied that the ROTC Department had in any way threatened Advanced ROTC students who participated in the Vietnam Moratorium on Oct. 15. Foster was commenting on widespread rumors which intimated that ROTC personnel had taken names of MS IV students who participated in Moratorium activities, called them to confer with the professor of military science, advised them not to participate in further peace protests, and threatened to report their activities on permanent military records.

Some elements in the many rumors could not be either confirmed or denied. Foster said that ROTC personnel had indeed “observed” the Moratorium proceedings, and that he had later held informal discussions with three MS IV students who had taken part in Moratorium services. But these discussions included, in Foster's words, “no criticism of (the students’) self-expression,” and “absolutely no coercion not to participate in any more Moratoriums.” According to Foster, the purpose of the discussions was to inform the students of the consequences such protest might bring if done after the students' induction into the Army and if they protested in uniform. Foster said that his counsel to students was undertaken “from the standpoint of their eminence in the Army” in the future. But, he added, reports of students’ political activities are not included in any file which is passed on to the Third Army.

There still appears to be grounds for doubt as to whether ROTC personnel attended Moratorium activities for the purpose of spotting and identifying students there. Major Thomas Dixon said “this wasn't our purpose,” but that they were present “just observing” Moratorium activities. However, several persons were disturbed by actions of the ROTC personnel at the activities. Professors Alan B. Brinkley and Robert S. Lennox said that they saw a major from the Military Science Department at the 9 a.m. slide show in the Fine Arts Building observing the audience.

(See ROTC, Page 6)

Hectic Happy Circus

As he climbs into his Fiat, he is still busy.

(See DAVIS, Page 6)