Page Six April 11, 1969

SINCERITY JUDGED
Wyzanski Ruling Eases CO Restriction
By JOHN FIVE
Casey Editor

The limitation of the conscientious objector status to one “who, by reason of religious training and belief, is conscientiously opposed
to participation in war of any form" was declared unconstitutional by Charles Wyzanski, chief judge of the U.S. District Court
for Massachusetts.

Ruling in the case of John Sisson, Jr., a Harvard graduate whose sole objection to being drafted was based on
the Vietnam war, Wyzanski asserted that the moral freedom of an individual must be balanced against the demands of the
state. The decision raised the issue of whether the courts could competently decide the sincerity of each individual objection.

Dr. Wister Th. Schinter, professor of political science, doubted that a court can adequately determine the integrity of motivated objectors.
In reference to the decision, he said that “We recognize the rights of the individual conscientious but do not adequately
protect the national interest.” Schinter pointed out that there are considerable variations of temperament among judges just as there are
among draft board employees. “I question the fairness of handling it,” he said.

President Samuel R. Spencer stated that “any person who does not conscientiously object to combat service of the war should
not do so.” He added that such exemption should not be construed as an exemption from alternative forms of service.

Assistant Professor of Political Science Jon W. Fuller said the courts could provide reasonable safeguards against abuse of the expanded
C.O. status, pointing out that questions of motive are decided frequently in criminal cases. In eliminating the position, courts may
be able to make distinctions of motivations more than they can now, Fuller said. He thinks that eliminating the draft
and moving to a volunteer army would be the best solution. “The draft is a very punitive form of incentive,”
he said. “It is shifting the burden of maintaining security forces to a less equitable distribution of the economic burden
of maintaining military forces. The draft takes away the earning power of the draftee, diverts their productive power, thereby causing
a reduction in the GNP. If the Army had to compete in the labor market, citizens would get an accurate
estimate of the cost of security,” Fuller added. “The draft provides cheap labor and cheapens the allocation of resources,” he
said.

Fuller said that Vietnam has taught many people in the United States that “defense, like everything else, is not something
of infinite value.” In commenting on the change in qualifications for the C.O. status inherent in the Wyzanski decision, Fuller
said that conscientious objection with less unpleasant alternative service and social pressure is a tough route in the U.S. that
few people who do not sincerely object would attempt.

If the Justice Department appeals the Wyzanski decision, the issue will go to the Supreme Court. The prosecutor for the
case said he would recommend an appeal, but Justice officials in Washington say they won't decide on further action until
the case is reviewed within the next 20 days.

In a similar case, a Los Angeles computer engineer challenging what he feels to be the improper application of the
C.O. clause is attempting to convince the high court to hear his appeal. A Federal district judge in Baltimore, unlike
the 1965 Seeger case as a precedent, ruled in December that an atheist who believes killing is a sin can
get a C.O. exemption.

In the past, C.O. exemptions have been reserved for the members of pacifistic religious sects, such as the Society of
Friends. In 1940, the exemption was extended to all religious pacifists. The qualification “religious training and belief” was first added
in 1948, but limited it to “belief in a relation to a supreme being.” In the Seeger decision in 1965,
the Supreme Court broadened the restriction, including “beliefs that hold the same place in an individual's life as a belief
in a supreme being.” Congress tightened the qualification to “religious training and belief” in the 1967 draft law.

If the Supreme Court upholds the Wyzanski ruling or refuses to hear an appeal, the decision will come under the
consideration of Congress when it debates the conscription issue prior to the expiration of the present draft law in 1971.
“As long as the present system of registration of conscientious objectors is as narrow as it is, then young men
have a legitimate objection to the draft,” Spencer said.

Legal Changes Trigger Argument Over Appeals
By TOM WHEATLEY
Associate Editor

Some students have expressed concern that the recent amendments to the state Constitution might make the appeal process of Elmer
too prohibitively risky a procedure.

In the recent constitutional amendments, Article IV was amended. This article stated that “Pending final action on charges or appeals,
the status of a student shall not be changed. No student who withdraws while charges or appeals are pending shall
be readmitted without standing trial. No student shall suffer an excessive penalty.” As a result of the deletion, no credit
will be given for courses completed during appeals if the guilty decision is not reversed.

Dr. R. David Taylor, chairman of the Regulatory Court and a member of the Student Life Committee, pointed out that
the change did not actually come by this amendment but has been in effect ever since the adoption of the
Code of Responsibility, since the constitution has never been ratified by the faculty.

Burney Rebukes Senate Criticism, Indicates Body’s Concrete Actions

The article recently leveled at the Senate is unjustified according to freshman Senator Cecil Burney, who also sees no mitigating
relevance for that body in campus life, saying the Senate deserves more credit than it gets from some of its
critics. “These criticisms of the Senate, that it has no place on the campus and that it is not doing
an adequate job, are untrue. It has done a great deal for the student body.”

When asked about specific items, Burney noted that a number of changes will be made this year which will be
the culmination of a long period of striving on the part of the Senate. “We are working on proposals which
will allow students to adapt more easily to new circumstances, voluntary ROTC, and reserves will be changes which will make
the campus better.”

When pressed to identify other changes, Burney said he did not wish to make a further statement in that respect.

On the Senate's role in campus life, Burney said that “The Senate is a place in which a constant exchange
of ideas can take place and where constructive action can be taken to bring these ideas to fruition. It is
a place where each student can have his views presented.”

“The Senate's power is of an advisory nature,” continued Burney. “The power is evident in its effect on the faculty.
Davidson's greatest asset is its faculty-student relationship.”

Area Exams To Be Object Of Senate Evaluation Soon
By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

A re-evaluation of code ten-year area exams was the principal action taken by the Senate in its meeting of April
9. The resolution, presented by Senator Cecil Burney after considerable discussion of the issue, expressed the Senate’s concern over the
amount of preparation required for the exams, their content, and their administration. It pledged explicit recommendations on the issue after
the administration of the exams this year.

President Hobbie informed the Senate that the Executive Affairs Committee is planning such an evaluation of courses on the new
format which will be done by student committees selected by the Senate and the heads of the various departments. After
a discussion period, no action was taken.

The Senate heard reports on Coed Week from Jon Jewett, chairman of the committee in charge of that event, and
on the issue of course subscription students.

Davidsonian Staff Contributors this week: Tom Sinka, Julie Young, George Park, Robert Elliott, David Grissett, Gene Linton, John Pancake, Steve
Ready, Norwood Poland, Joe Smith, Dan Graham, Bob Sherwood, Richard Rosenfield, Buzz Tarver, Mark Hedges, Don Perm, Steve Caynome.and Phil
Riner. From President Hobbin, it was amid that the scholarship issue would be settled in a short time. The remaining
business dealt with the filling of vacancies and the appointment of committees. Lawrence Willdtwon was appointed to fill a vacancy
on the Activities Grant Fund Committee. Senators Hinshaw, White, and Tiodfelue were appointed as an advisory committee to the Elections
Board. Vice President Opler and Senators Habbie and Cable were designated as a committee to arrange a reception for the
trustees at their next meeting.

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 9:
Francis Ghigo 637 Lorimer
Malcolm Lester 2H Broadway

Down as Honship, Barney observed, "I think that such communication has helped Davidson, more than any other factor, move into
the forefront of schools in this country."

CECIL BURNEY
Criticism unjustified
The Cutle states how the Sibel case must be settled before the conclusion of college judicial proceedings. However, in the
case of suspension or expulsion, the penalty shall be effective as of the date of the decision of the agent
of original jurisdiction and if such decision is upheld on appeal, no academic work done or credit earned after such
date will be valid. Adagydur said that "even if it is the intention of this section to discourage appeal, if
the accused student denies appeal, he has lost his credit anyway! The reason for this section is to prevent misuse
of the appeal procedures," he said. "We don't feel it would be right to use the appeals procedure as a
delaying tactic." Faglier continued, "In this way, a senior could graduate before his case is settled even if he is
still held guilty," he said. Danny Codfatter, a member of the convention, pointed out that if a case is near
the end of a term, a student is faced with paying his fees for another term and doing all the
work for that term if he appeals. "If he loses the appeal, he loses his money and time's work. He
doesn't know if his work, courses taken, or fees will be wasted or not," Madfelter said. "This is definitely a
disturbing factor, and he may ask to transfer without appealing the case, to ensure that his work will not be
wasted," he said. "I don't feel a person can carry out an appeal through graduation." Codfatter proposed that a note
be put in the student's record that he was once investigated. "If he is carrying the appeals process out far
enough to get credit, let him transfer to decide the matter of transferring the credit there," Codfatter said.

Hazing (Continued From Page 4)
G.S. 21, cleaning up the roadside. There was no hazing during the week at all. Phi Beta Theta pledges built
a patio and barbecue pit for the house. Hazing diminished during the week, but early in the week included paddling
and other minor activities. Out of all the incidents of hazing that were acknowledged in the survey, official action was
taken on only one fraternity during the week. Interfraternity Council Vice President Dave Wasserman said no further action will be
taken by the IFC Judicial Board, of which he is chairman. The sole violation that was reported was reported to
a fall counselor who witnessed a conversation between pledges in which one described paddling with some of the fraternity brothers.
In response, the IFC told the fraternity that all hazing was to stop immediately, informing the Greater IFC that the
pledges of that fraternity were displeased to the point of considering leaving the fraternity. Wasserman said that although there had
been no inspection by the IFC, he received confirmation later that hazing had been terminated. Questioned if the recent action
would assure that hazing would not be resumed next year, Wasserman said that he had "strong indication" from members of
at least one fraternity that "political movement within the fraternity" would guarantee that the practice was at an end.

(Continued From Page 1)
take ROTC were it not required (based on a questionnaire during the freshman year) — in contrast to the present
level of about 40 percent — were cited as evidence of indoctrination by the department. Fing insisted, and the others
agreed, that they had nothing against the department itself. Fing noted that his instructor in ROTC had even offered to
allow him to make up his lab credit in a class he would not fail. Both Bilan and Hay have
accepted the survey and felt outside perspective.

By DICK ANDERSON
Yale To Give AB In Afro-American Studies
Yale University has instituted the nation's first AB degree in Afro-American Studies. Devised by a committee of four professors and
four students, the program was instituted both to meet the desires of Yale students and to provide a program in
an area in which the committee's chairman said the American people are almost entirely ignorant. The students on the committee
were all members of the Black Students Association at Yale. Last May the Union held a symposium on black life
which featured a number of white and black intellectuals including Ron Karenga, leader of the black separatist organization US, and
McGeorge Bundy, former Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and head of the Ford Foundation. Yale Provost
Dr. Charles H. Taylor mentioned two arguments by the black students for the program which he considered especially persuasive: the
need of the Yale student to understand the "Black experience," and the black students' insistence on intellectual rigor in the
program.

Clemson Fraternities To Go National
Fraternities at Clemson University are undergoing the opposite process from some of Davidson's: the long-local groups are investigating the possibilities
of affiliating with nationals. The Clemson Interfraternity Council has set up a complicated procedure resembling rush rules for the contacts
between the fraternities and the nationals. No national may contact any fraternity without first registering with the Clemson IFC. Locals
must request the national they want, and no national may contact a fraternity that has not asked for it. Wary
of the dangers of nationalization, the IFC has set up a two-week cooling-off period between completion of contacts and signing
of contracts.

Nudes Jog At Maryland
Students at the University of Maryland have an interesting new practice: nude jogging. After nude coeds were twice seen running
through the twilight in front of a women's dormitory, 13 nude men students and another 600 conventionally clothed students held
a panty raid near the dormitory. It ended in front of the president's home with the demand that the president's
wife "take it all off."

Davidson In The Ivy League?
The Columbia Spectator has reported that the Ivy League has kicked out Columbia University in its latest meeting. Jacques Barzan,
author of the Humanities text entitled Darwin, Marx, Wagner, was said to be "dismayed" over the outcome of the meeting,
which he missed. Suggestions for a replacement included Vassar and "Davidson College in North Carolina." The article was part of
the Spectator's April Fool's issue.

Viet Protest Hits Coke Machines
Students at Dickinson College are boycotting campus Coke machines as a protest against the Vietnam War. The students hope that
this economic pressure will spread and force businesses to use their influence with the government to put a stop to
the war. The idea was initiated by Negro comedian Dick Gregory in a visit to the Dickinson campus during his
presidential campaign last year.

ROTC for the term by their non-attendance. Although Sikos is transferring, he said he had exceeded the two-cut limit before
he had his letter of acceptance for the transfer. Hay is not transferring. Asked if the non-attendance were civil disobedience,
Mabley said it was comparable but not significant enough to earn the label. Simpson said the requirement conflicted with being
a doctor. "It seems incongruous for me to learn how to take somebody apart when you're trying to put him
together," he said.

WE'VE ADDED (Classical That Is!) Budget Priced By
IT'S COMPLETE THE STUDENT STORE

Davidson
They differentiated non-participation in ROTC from disobedience to other rules such as traffic rules by citing the moral implications of
required participation. The "I don't want to" that goes with ROTC is different from the "I don't want to" of
making up a bed, ran the reasoning, and the difference is the militarism that ROTC participation forces on them. Non-moral
armaments occasionally come into the picture, also. "It's a waste of time," said Mabley. Sikos, Hay, and Simpson criticized ROTC
as worthless.

RIGHT WING RECORDS TO OUR REGULAR STOCK - VICTROLA — SERAPHIM — NONESUCH & OTHERS CHECK THE SELECTION WHILE
