be Hamsonantan ane “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. during the school year. Second class postage paid. Correspondence to: The DAVIDSONIAN.

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969

An Honest Response

It is with a great sense of appreciation that we commend the faculty for its action regarding the Vietnam Moratorium.
Quite frankly it came as a surprise to the vast majority of students. Although many students had indicated support of
the war moratorium, few, if any, expected unified faculty support for the effort. The simple, two-sentence statement issued by the
faculty on Tuesday provides a model of cooperation with the students who have expressed grave concern over the entire scope
of our activity in Vietnam.

The faculty has opened the door to an honest confrontation on the part of each Davidson student with his own
conscience and with the feelings of others. The major concern on the part of many persons, however, is the response
which the student body will give to the moratorium. There has been considerable feeling floating around which has given rise
to worry about the ever-present nemesis, student apathy, and its effect on the serious efforts of a number of students
and faculty members who are attempting to bring an enhancement of awareness regarding Vietnam to Davidson.

The national effort on October 15 calls for a day of ringing doorbells in the community to spread the confrontations.
The Davidson committee has as its only goal the desire to bring more awareness and interest regarding Vietnam to as
many students as possible. The achievement of that goal lies in the willingness on the part of Davidson students to
be mature for one day. Laugh at that statement; throw the whole paper away because of it; but it is
the honest concern of a majority of the student and faculty leaders. The moratorium provides the opportunity; it is up
to the students to provide a mature response. If any issue deserves some mature, well-directed thought, certainly this one does.

Last week’s “New Republic” published a front-page editorial which speaks to this point. The editors pointed out that the university
is not “normally organized to function as a political institution,” but commented that “the times are abnormal” as a result
of the actions of our political figures. “We hope that every member of the academic community,” the editorial concludes, “from
the youngest freshman to the most august college president and trustee, will move into the breach. The planned one-day national
convocation of the community of scholars on October 15 is their opportunity. Seize it.”

It is indeed an outstanding opportunity; seize it, use it, make the best of it. But don’t waste it.

Of Community

For some time a large percentage of Davidson students and faculty have been looking for a new sense of community,
of common interest in the pursuit of relevance in education. For the brief period Monday Davidson found its community. Before
students ran off to scheduled labs and classes, and while parents were still on campus sharing in the excitement of
formal procession, Davidson stopped the race it has been running with itself for some time to listen to a man
speak about something that really mattered.

The first annual convocation, much to the surprise of skeptical professors and seniors, proved to be overwhelmingly successful. It was
a moment “symbolic of academic renewal.” Dr. Samuel D. Proctor, in his role as the initiator of that renewal, was
perfectly cast. A man of keen intelligence, he summed up in short measure what admissions personnel, students, and faculty alike
have been trying to say for a long time. His analysis of the crisis in education for the black student
and his admonition for the college in respect to its responsibility in that area could not have been delivered to
a better audience at a better time.

His call for an environment which would allow even a knotted pine to grow should serve as a guideline to
be followed as we consider the question of admissions and recruiting of the poor white and the poor black. The
convocation committee is to be commended for its success in administering the convocation in a manner very suited for the
academic community, which admissions material makes Davidson appear to be. But the success of the convocation rests primarily on Proctor
himself, on his wit, on his talent both as a writer and an orator, and on his sense of timing.
His message and the sense of urgency which it carried should provide Davidson with a needed impetus to maintain the
community which it shared for an hour Monday. Working as a community in thorough pursuit of responsibility in our response
to Proctor’s call, we may also stumble on that relevance for which we so desperately search.

Last Summer

Davidson's summer school 1969 enrolled 56 students first session and 51 second session. Without knowledge of what part of this
meager number attended both sessions, it still appears fair to conclude that the college should either do something with the
summer school or be rid of it. The easier course would be to abandon the summertime stepchild; but we are
reluctant to encourage abandonment of what could be of mutual benefit to college and individuals alike.

Davidson has a physical plant and location particularly suited to summertime study and recreation. A pool and tennis courts are
complemented by the Lake Campus offerings of boating and swimming. Academic buildings are air-conditioned and at least some rooms of
the library are air-conditioned. We have one air-conditioned dorm and others could be so equipped with the expense for the
air conditioning borne by summer room rent. (Rent presently uncollected as the dorms stand empty for three months.)

One of the longstanding abuses of American education has been its virtual abandonment of expensive facilities for one quarter of
the calendar year. It is to Davidson's credit that such programs as the Liberal Arts Program for Teachers and the
Project Opportunity program for high school students have been held here during the summer months. But there is room for
much more activity here: more church conferences could use the Davidson facilities, even business and professional groups — often seeking
some protection from the intrusions and distractions of the city — could make use of the campus. In addition, in
the past such arrangements have often held long-term benefits for the college.

These possibilities notwithstanding, we suggest that the summer school itself be given first priority. Further, we propose that one dorm
be set aside for women matriculants. (Women students here in the past were afforded no opportunity for college housing.) Information
about the summer program would have to be disseminated among coed universities and women’s colleges across the Southeast. Davidson could
go coed next summer with little or no capital expense and no change in present facilities or faculty — except
that both would be put to better use. Which they should be.

To the Editor:

It is not the purpose of this letter to defend or condemn area exams. Rather it seems somewhat more realistic
to view them in a different light, recognizing that they will probably not be abolished in the immediate future. In
fact, the strong expressions of student concern in the past have awakened the faculty to the necessity for reform. The
area exams have run into problems not unlike those encountered in the experimental Humanities program several years ago. When students
were first introduced to Humanities, protests were issued to the effect that the coursework was too demanding and in short,
unreasonable. But with a careful evaluation by the professors involved in response to student concern, the program was reworked and
made more effective. Even now the program is undergoing change.

In this case it seems that the faculty is already responding to the need for some kind of change with
area exams. Being of an experimental nature, it is reasonable to suppose that some of their faults have not been
reviewed. The standards of grading some of the exams have already been adjusted. Professors are becoming more aware of the
possibility of unfairness in exam content. Recent discussions in the Educational Policy Committee indicate that the faculty is aware of
student concern and possible reforms are presently being discussed. It seems likely, then, that the faculty will take into account
the special circumstances in which this year's sophomores have been placed. By such actions it seems that the faculty is
already responding to the need for some kind of change.

Danny Clodfelter '72
Fred Wilson '72
Alex Gordon '72
Bernard Scoggins '72
Cecil E. Burney, Jr. '72
Marshall Case '72
Jack C. Scott '72Bruce ‘72 Davidson College First Issue

Blasted To The Editor once more filling the halls of American colleges and the student press has been reactivated. Unfortunately,
though, the omens for this year’s DAVIDSONIAN are not good: several pages of bulletin board type notices, an adequate sports
page, two poorly written reviews, a vague (if not entirely incomprehensible) article by Franklin Anderson, a pointless analysis, and the
usual editorial. For the newcomers to DAVIDSONIAN reader, I make a few things clear.

The Real ‘Dirty Rush’

Now that students are, and later became, the news and editorial voice of Davidson College... and later still devolved into
the news and editorial voice of the Davidson College Student Body—today meekly claims to be, “published weekly by Davidson College
students.” Factual reporting has not characterized the paper for some years now. Though no deliberate lies are published, the news
is slanted, distorted, given disproportionate emphasis, omitted, and even created by the chosen successors whose self-appointed task it is to
remake Davidson in their own image. The past several ships have not learned that there is a great difference between
“factual reporting” and the mere “reporting of facts.”

There is no reason, now that Rocky GreenWhite is no longer a regular contributor, for the perpetuation of our collegiate
disgrace. More than any other sector was...

Brice Approves Dorms; Exposes

To the Editor: The timing of the administration has done it again. The sophomore class is caught in the middle
of the diabolical juxtaposition of area exams and the renovation of the freshman dormitories, and the poor sophomore is left
wondering whether he came into the world one year too late, or one too early. In all seriousness, praise should
go to those responsible for the salvage of East and Cannon and Watts, and the location of color television sets
in the elegant lobbies there, while Belk has a new carpet and its good old portable black and white tube.

by Johnny Hart

Health Hazard

Such improvements are admirable, especially in a world such as ours, where, there is, so I've heard rumored, a war
going on in some jungle, and growing dissatisfaction among various social groups with the way the country is run. Davidson
has kept up with the times remarkably. I hear that some of the dormitories even have a new paint job
(probably to cover up the spots where we sprayed "dirty words on the walls with deodorant and burned them in).
However, one important factor has been overlooked, and it would certainly be to the advantage of those who wish to
promote the public image of Davidson as a liberal arts college to take notice. The desks in some classrooms of
Chambers are outrageous! I refer to the medieval torture constructions in more notorious rooms such as 120 (chosen arbitrarily). We
have all heard how important good physical condition is to our mental development, how we should eat a hearty breakfast,
and so forth.

But how many people have stopped to consider how essential comfort is to the enterprising student? Golfers get bad shoulders,
tennis players get bad elbows, and along the same line, students can get bursitis of the butt. To sit for
fifty minutes at a time on solid wood can leave a marked impression on the individual, in more than one
way. Not all rooms in Chambers are furnished with the ancient desks (which, incidentally, are all designed, with very few
exceptions, for right-handed students and the lefties can go to Maryland). Some have plush chairs layered with smooth cushions upon
which the individual can comfortably place his rump and sink into lethargic numbness. The point of this letter, then, is
to awaken the administration to the urgent, pressing needs of Davidson students. Let us not take the matter of our
behinds too lightly lest we lose sight of what our respective ends in life are.

Robert Brice ‘72 Davidson College

To the Editor: DAVIDSONIAN has except put one can facing an identity crisis, its attempts to combine the D.C. news
bulletin, Time, The New Republic, Sports Illustrated, and the Charlotte Observer make for most unpleasant reading. Manifestly, the attempts do
not succeed. The paper is as stale, as dull, and as trite as the inane McLuhan quotation it regards so
highly. I entreat the paper to do one of three things: fix upon the role of leader of student bitching
and fulfill the responsibilities attendant thereupon; establish a Newsweek-type format of intensive explication and analysis; or cease publication and leave
the task of maintaining contact with trustees, alumni, and parents to the full-time paid staff in the south basement of
Chambers.

Don Hoyt ‘70 Davidson College

Ed. Note: The change in the mast to “Published Weekly BY Davidson Students” was made at the direction of postal
authorities. For DeMoises, escape the reality of his doubt of the article's authorship, he can take a magical mystery tour
into the world of Franklin Anderson, complete with self-constructed straw men and quixotic windmills. I will admit that Anderson’s article
and my reply have one thing in common: we agree that the one most important problem that Davidson faces is
identity. However, I feel that the question of identity is the right question. Secondly, because it is the right question,
it should be, and in fact, has been considered. And thirdly, the vague approximations of the question action he mentions
are, in reality, the component parts of that identity, parts which must be considered in detail if a comprehensive examination
of that identity, whether to affirm it or change it, is to be attempted.

A first string skin on last year's varsity basketball team has been contracted to write Crosswhites column this year.

More On Identity

To the Editor: After reading Franklin Anderson's article in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, I would say that he should have listened
to Dr. Spencer's inaugural address. He would have known that each commission reports directly to President Spencer and not to
the great white psychoanalyst, the AED. The AED has been given copies of the report as sources of possible resource
material. Having served this past year on the Commission on...

(See IDENTITY, Page 3)

Percival’s Remover

David Sweatt

There are no needles in the haystacks. A divided Germany, Arab-Israeli open warfare, the Sino-Soviet border clashes—students of international politics
warn against hopes for real solutions. Most have come to regard Vietnam in the same perspective—a long, recurring nightmare that’s
always there in the morning. Dr. Paul S. Crane recognizes these insomnious symptoms of the United States but sees the
causes and the cure differently from many of this country’s insomniacs. “I think that history will be where the wisdom
of this nation’s policy will be recognized,” speculated Crane after Monday’s convocation, at which he received an honorary degree for
his efforts as a medical missionary in Korea. “Even to the loss of American lives over there. I think you
will be proud ten years from now that the United States did what it did—and that it did so because
‘nobodies’, people who had no power to wield, who were being killed in the night.”

“Once the game is started, terrible things happen,” added Crane. “But you have to look at who kicked the first
ball.” Crane has more than a nodding acquaintance with war in the far east. He headed a medical support team
for guerillas in Korea in 1947. Recalling the Korean War, Crane said that Japan and not South Korea, down the
peninsula, was the object of the drive. Japan is still Communist China's first objective, said Crane. But threat or no
threat, the Republic of South Korea has functioned quite well by many standards. Continuing border skirmishes have not prevented achievement
of a high annual growth rate—reaching 14 percent in 1968. More importantly, perhaps, if Crane's analysis is correct, is the
change in attitude of the young men and women of Korea. “There was rioting in Seoul today,” commented Crane in
response to a question about the current political situation in Korea. “The young people have assimilated the values of a
democratic society. For four thousand years the Koreans have lived under authoritarian rule. Now they have a chance for something
else: It’s like a breath of fresh air.”

The rioting was part of a crisis that has been brewing since July when President Park Chung-hee called for a
vote of confidence through a constitutional amendment bill that would allow the president to serve a third term. The rioting
students are a part of this opposition—with their paramount objective the establishment of a tradition of peaceful transition of power,
long considered essential to a truly democratic system. “After one devastating war, two revolutions, five constitutional amendments... the opposition insists
the Park government should give South Korean democracy a chance to mature, to take root,” says Crane. While we have
of recent years talked authoritatively on “the oriental mind” and how we shouldn't be so ethnocentric as to force our
own brand of democracy on that mind, perhaps we should have factored in the old saw “never underestimate the power
of youth.” And as we move toward October 15 we should be hoping that in a few years the students
will be rioting in Saigon for the same things they were rioting for in Dr. Crane’s Korea last Monday.
