‘WE'LL DO ALL RIGHT’

Brickels Hits Trail For Top Prospects

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

While head basketball coach Larry Brown is still playing for the professional Oakland Oaks in the American Basketball Association playoffs, assistant coach Bo Brickels is carrying out the hectic task of recruiting. Brickels left Tuesday on a trip to Indiana, while Brown has been recruiting in California, with planned trips to Utah and Idaho. The coaches have been concentrating on the Mid-West areas and California. In Indiana, particularly, many basketball prospects are involved in spring sports and are unable to visit campuses. Brickels, therefore, is making a special effort to personally see these prospects.

Brickels compared the problem of personal contact to fraternity rush procedures. As a recruiter, he must break the barrier between himself as a coach and the recruit as a player. Once the barrier is broken, then he can communicate on a personal level with the player. As to the type of prospects Brickels is seeking, he said that “quickness is the first quality we look for. We feel that we can teach him defense and teamwork once he gets here.”

Davidson Signs Another Brown

Davidson students may be seeing a little Brown along with the Wildcat red for the next few seasons, both on the bench and the court. Head basketball coach Larry Brown, after being in his new position for less than a week and spending less than a day in his campus office, announced last week that Ray Brown Jr., a 5-10, 155-pound guard from New Orleans, has signed a grant-in-aid to play basketball for Davidson.

“I can’t tell you how happy I am to make this announcement,” Coach Brown said. “Ray is a solid college prospect despite his height, and we feel that he'll make a fine college guard.”

Brown’s choice of Davidson over the many other schools that recruited him was simply a case of the Wildcats claiming one of their own. Brown's father, Ray Sr., served as backfield coach in football and freshman basketball coach for Davidson from 1948 to 1951.

“Ray’s a very fine basketball player,” said Bo Brickels, Davidson’s new assistant coach. Brickels, who had the distinction of recruiting Brown for two schools, Rice and Davidson, said that Brown is “like an extra coach on the playing floor. I’m glad that he’s coming to Davidson.”

Among the many schools that contacted and recruited Brown were Marquette, North Carolina, Virginia, Tulane, Vanderbilt, Rice, and Texas. Brown starred at Newman High School in New Orleans, a school with a senior class of only 72 that went to the Louisiana state play-offs with a 26-4 record last season, as Brown captained the team. Averaging 22.5 points a game and playing flawlessly from the floor, Brown was named to the first team all-district and first team all-state squads this past year. As a junior, he averaged 18.2 a contest and made the second team all-state. In addition, Brown was named as the district’s most valuable player this past year.

Bomber Aiming At Hundredth Win As Freshman Hurling Staff Shines

Coach Tom Stevens’ Davidson baseball team still has eight regular season games left to play, and already the Wildcats have won as many games as in both the past two seasons. The batsmen, who presently stand at 6-12-1 going into today's doubleheader at the Citadel, have also scored more runs this year than in either of the last two seasons.

Stevens, often referred to as “the Bomber” by his players and associates, feels that the season has already been somewhat of a success. “We’ve already won some good games, and should have won several other close ones. We could easily have a winning record now if we'd have gotten the breaks.”

“This team is much improved over the last few Davidson baseball teams,” Stevens said. “We're hitting better, and our pitching is coming along real well. For a team as young as ours, we're doing a good job.”

Young is the word to describe the Wildcat stars so far this season. The pitching staff alone bears this out, as all of the victories have been recorded by either freshmen or a sophomore, Wade Shepherd. The freshmen moundsmen have been especially advantageous to the baseball improvement. Rick Pipan, Marshall Case, and Mike Frye have combined for five of the team’s six victories, and have added some hitting as well. Case, for instance, knocked in the winning run against East Carolina last Saturday while Pipan was limiting the Pirates to just seven hits.

Another freshman star has been catcher Harold Wilkerson. Wilkerson, although in a batting slump, has done an excellent defensive job and has handled the young pitching corps like a veteran, according to Stevens. Gordon Slade continues as the leading batsman, still hitting around .400. Bob Meadows leads the team in runs batted in with 11, while Slade and Case have the only Wildcat home runs.

Davidson goes into the Citadel games today in the cellar of the Southern Division of the conference. However, a sweep of the doubleheader would put the Wildcats in third ahead of the Bulldogs. Also, two wins would leave Stevens just one victory short of his hundredth win at Davidson. “I would like to get there, and I think that this team can do it,” Stevens said.

The difference between the team this year and last is obvious in the statistics. Presently, eight Wildcats are batting .235 or higher, while last season only six players that saw much action hit that well.

Brickels declined to name players in whom he is interested, since the announcement might jeopardize the players. However, he is looking for a good big man, and he feels confident that he will be able to field a balanced group of recruits. In meeting the challenge of recruiting, Brickels said that it is “hard to be optimistic, but it’s also hard to be pessimistic.” He feels that the staff is making progress each day, and that Davidson’s basketball program is still “headed in the right direction.”

Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson's athletic director, echoed Brickels in saying that a lot of progress is being made. According to Scott, many of the big prospects are still on the line, and Davidson has as good a chance as anybody to get them. “A lot of the better boys won't sign until May,” Scott pointed out. “They're considering a lot of colleges, and have yet to make a definite decision. There are still an awful lot of great college prospects left.”

Scott also pointed out that Steve Kirley, Brian Adrian, and Eric Minkin all were late signees, not deciding to attend Davidson until almost after the school year was over. Minkin didn’t sign with the Wildcats until well into the summer. “We might be a little bit in back of some of the other colleges, but we've made excellent progress,” Scott continued. “We've gotten a very favorable response from high school prospects since the coaches were named.”

According to Scott, a number of good high school prospects will be visiting the campus in coming weeks. For example, four of the nation’s best prep stars will visit Davidson tomorrow. “Despite the obstacles that we had against us, I think that we're going to do all right,” Brickels said. “With a man like Larry Brown as head coach, a kid is bound to give us a second look.”

(Staff Photo By Lyle)
MARSHALL CASE
Freshman star leads Davidson pitching staff.

(Staff Photo By Davidson)
“IF ONLY HE WERE A SEVEN-FOOTER...”
Brickels studies the record of a possible prospect.

Pikas Capture Volleyball; SPEs Pull Softball Upset

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

If anyone heard a couple of booms recently around IMAC circles, he shouldn't be alarmed. It was nothing more than two of the year's biggest upsets. The Pikas provided the shocker in volleyball, knocking off the favored Delts to take the IMAC crown with an undefeated record, while the SPEs upset theSoftball pre-season picks, the heavy-hitting Kappa Sigs. The volleyball competition was a two-team race from the beginning, as the Pikas and Delts were the only undefeated teams after the first week of games. They finally met head-on last Wednesday afternoon, the Delts being 10-0 and the Pikas 9-0 at the time of the confrontation.

The Pikas beat the Delts two games to none, 15-12 and 15-10, and differences in the personnel and manner of play of the two teams make analysis of the outcome very interesting. The Delts featured the best set of spikers in the league in Tony Orsbon, Wayne Hickel, and Rocky Crosswhite. On the surface, it appears that this strength would have been enough to win. However, the real secret to the victory lay in two other factors: the number of men played and the set-up men. The Pikas proved that the team with the best set-up men wins the championship. Fred Kastner, Bill Pierce, Tom Poston, and especially Fred Lowrance were consistent in their set-ups and allowed the Pika spikers, Joe Lansinger, Tom Hendren, and Mark Affeldt, although less spectacular than the Delts, to spike with authority. The Delt set-up men were inconsistent, nullifying the power of their spikers. In the second game, the Delts lost when they removed their best set-up man, Cliff Paterson, and the Pikas promptly reeled off seven straight points. Paterson was reinserted, but it was too late.

The other factor in the Pika victory was that they played eight men compared to the Delts' six. The extra men facilitated the saving of spikes, at which Billy Pierce did a fantastic job. There were often holes in the Delt defense because of their use of only six players. Behind the Pikas and Delts in the final finish came the Sigma Chis, the Sigma Nus, and Kappa Sigs, all with 8-4 records. Pete Norton was the outstanding spiker for the Machis, with help from Jerry Krolt and Jeff Pflugner. Herb Clegg was the best of their set-up men. The Nus relied mainly on tenacity and ability to keep the ball in play. They played nine men and were very good at picking up spikes. Steve Hayes and Calvin Murphy provided adequate spiking, but the Nus were weak on set-ups. The Sigs' main problem was also set-ups. Doug Cook, Bill McKensie, Mike Kelly, and Mike O'Neill were all good spikers, but there was no one to set them up consistently.

It was rumored before the softball season began that SPE pitching ace Bob Dunham would be hampered by the slow pitch rule. However, Dunham, the only fast-pitch hurler of any repute on campus, silenced the Sig guns with the aid of a strong wind from centerfield, on just five hits as the SPEs won a squeaker, 3-2. Craig Garner scored the winning run. The win threw the SPEs into the midst of the title picture along with the usually powerful Delts and the surprising ATOs. The Delts, after yesterday's games, had won three contests, scoring a total of 50 runs, while the ATOs had also won three, including two one-run wins. The Sigs, despite their loss to the SPEs, won three also, including a 15-0 walloping of the Nus. The KAs won two of three games, while the Machis took both of their contests. The Pikas lost two of three, and the SAEs split a pair of games. The Betas, Indies, Nus, Gamms, and Pi Kapps are still all looking for their first wins. The Betas found themselves in the cellar after three losses, while the Indies also dropped three games. The Nus and Pi Kapps lost both their contests, while the Gamms came out on the wrong end of the score in their only game.

Brown hit a phenomenal 91.1 percent of his free throws, 41 for 45, while contributing 33 assists. So far in the finals of their division, the Oaks lead two games to none as Brown has passed off already for 13 scores. He scored 15 in the first win and 10 in the second, hitting nine of 10 foul shots. West Coast sportswriters have been calling Brown "Mr. Brains" since he joined the Oakland Club. His peripheral vision, considered by many to be as good as anybody’s in either pro circuit, gives him an uncanny ability to find the open man to pass to. "He's the best at finding the open man of anyone that I've ever seen with a basketball," said Oak general manager Bruce Hale. "At five-nine he’s had to develop into a passer and playmaker, and he’s the best there is at it. One of Brown's greatest basketball traits, and one that should aid his coaching, is his selfless team play. "I've seen him pass up layups on one side of the basket for an open teammate on the other side," Hale said. "He's a real team man."

Prized Prep Prospects Pick Davidson Football

Larry Spears, a 6-3, 195-pound tackle from Elkins, West Virginia, has become the second prep football standout to sign a grant-in-aid with Davidson. Spears was honorable mention all-state in West Virginia this past season. He was also named to the all Big Ten Conference Team. Wildcat assistant coach Jimmy Jordan, who was instrumental in recruiting Spears, called him “a definitely fine addition to our football program. There is a possibility that Spears will play both offensively and defensively at tackle for us. He is a real asset.” Earlier in the month, Jimmy Hardison, a fullback-linebacker from Williamston, N.C., signed with Davidson. Hardison, an all-conference selection and participant in the annual North Carolina prep all-star game, could hopefully provide Davidson with a powerful running attack to complement the fine Wildcat passing game, according to head coach Homer Smith. Smith said that Hardison “has excellent potential and could conceivably help us a great deal both on offense and defense.”

Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director of Davidson College for the past 15 years, was named Wednesday to the chairmanship of the university division basketball committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. “I'm delighted with the position, and I feel honored,” Scott said after being informed of the appointment. The appointment was made at the NCAA spring meeting in Kansas City. The job consists of a “lot of work,” according to Scott, such as overseeing the NCAA Basketball Tournament, including the first-round and regional games. The committee selects the sites for the games, the at-large teams that will participate, and makes other decisions concerning the tournament.