Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, NC. 28036.

ROSALIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1969

(Staff Photos by Davidson)

THE SYSTEM'S TWO FACES: ACCEPTANCE... AND REJECTION

In Pursuit

“Sure, there’s a lot wrong with the fraternity system, but...”

That feeble excuse for a defective social system was cranked out hundreds of times last week by fraternity members. An admission of weakness—but at the same time a verbal device to perpetuate that weakness. To many fraternity men, that tacit hint of reform to anxious, questioning freshmen is already forgotten. It served its purpose, and now it can be abandoned. But to many others, who took what they said seriously, it is a promise to keep.

Of course, some fraternity men reacted to the opposition of Joe Murphy and the Independent group in a manner resembling a spoiled child: they pouted. In others, however, the questions raised last week will be added to previous convictions and the realization that what we are doing here, in our social set-up, is wrong.

One fraternity president has already announced his intentions of trying to do something about it, and his offer to resign was refused by his house. A couple of fraternity members stalked out of balling sessions last weekend, following in the wake of several who have gone inactive recently. The president of the Inter-fraternity Council has publicly thanked Murphy and the Independents for their efforts. And all three candidates for student body president, one of them at least in appearance a gung-ho fraternity man, say that they would prefer an alternative to the present system.

The spirit for change is here, and so are the people to effect it. Change that will satisfy fraternity men’s needs and eliminate the present system’s evils is not impossible—we just need to get off our tails long enough to work for it. The proper time for change was years ago.

Heads Up,

To a group that calls itself the Student Violent Non-Action Committee (SVNA), give credit for the most novel idea yet in the protest of Richard Nixon’s inauguration. They're calling their protest a cross-country flush. This is the plan: When Mr. Nixon takes the oath of office next Monday in Washington, he will conclude it with the traditional final pledge to “uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States to the best of my ability, so help me God.” And on “me,” SVNA supporters all across the country will flush the nearest toilet.

“We realize, of course, that we may not be able to reach every toilet,” the group said in a letter to campus newspapers last week, “but we hope that, with the cooperation of organizations like yours, we shall be able to reach a majority of them.”

Targets of the group will be toilets in not only dorms, apartments, and classroom buildings, but also hotels, restaurants, railroad stations, and private homes. The scheme has been dubbed a “Flush For Freedom.”

Just what to make of all this we are a little uncertain. There can be no challenging the novelty of the plan, of course, but we tend to go along with the reaction of a Chicago columnist. Said he: “My bet is they won’t come close to matching what happens during a commercial in a Bears’ telecast.”

Over Their Limit

When one of those eager-beaver politicians comes by your room in the next few days, asking for your vote for the Student Senate, don’t ask him about his platform. Just ask him if he’s going to attend Senate meetings.

Obviously, a platform proposal isn't going to get effected if the one proposing it doesn’t bother to attend the meetings. And if the record of this year’s Senate is any indication, a lot of ideas must be lying idle. Judging by the attendance report on page three, most of the Senators have a pretty good record. What the record doesn’t show, however, are the three times the Senate couldn't muster a quorum and the incredibly sloppy job done by the Senate’s secretaries.

In other words, our statistics are hardly accurate. Standing rules of the Senate permit each Senator four absences. When a Senator goes over his limit, the rules say, he should be fined $2.50 per absence. A good policy—but apparently ignored. Don't look now—but at least two Senators owe us $2.50 each.

LETTERS

Sikes: Independents Left With Dilemma

To The Editor:

Congratulations to all of us who got bids and joined a fraternity. Some of us are the fraternity type; it should prove to be a good life. Some of us aren't; life won't seem that great but it will be a lot better than being an Independent. For the Independent, well...

Who should get the blame for the plight of the Independents? For the life of the Independent is the life of a person without any social outlet. They have no place to have a party or take a date unless one wants to call the College Union such a place. Of course, many Independents are invited to fraternity parties, but the feeling of being an outsider can hardly be avoided when we consider the “close-knit unity” of a fraternity. Also, Independents must wait in line for every meal, while people at the fraternities sit down and eat. Whose fault is it that the Independents do not have the same opportunity as the fraternity brothers?

The first possibility is that the fraternities are at fault because they did not choose everyone to be a member. This argument is ridiculous, for fraternities exist on the premise that the kind of people who should live in a fraternity house are the kind of people that all the existing members desire. This year the fraternities picked many people who weren't the “fraternity type.” In fact, it is quite obvious that fraternities have picked the non-fraternity type for several years. This occurrence seems to be self-preservation but also to provide people with an organized social outlet.

Still, however, Independents exist. Why? I say it is because they aren't the kind of people the fraternities feel would best fit the fraternity. Obviously, this is true; not all people are meant for fraternities. (Whoever heard of 87 percent of a class being the “fraternity type” as was the Class of ‘72); neither, however, are all the Independents meant for social celibacy. Whose fault is it the Independents exist without any social outlet?

The fault lies with the administration, faculty, and students of Davidson College who support the fraternity system and no other system. Who rents the houses on Patterson Court to the fraternities and not the Independents? The administration has decided that the fraternities alone shall be allowed to rent houses on Patterson Court. Those students and faculty who support only the fraternity system are just as...Much at fault as the administration for the Independent dilemma. The solution to the dilemma of the Independent will be realized when the administration, faculty, and students admit that far from all people benefit from fraternities. The solution will be realized when those who either didn't go through rush, who went through rush but didn't get a bid, or who got a bid but decided that fraternities weren't for them get an organized social outlet equal to the fraternities. It is for those kinds of people who are mature enough to realize that fraternities are not for them this letter is written.

Chris Sikes, ‘72
Davidson College

Vagt Appreciates Murphy Critique

ED. NOTE: The following is a letter from Interfraternity Council President Bobby Vagt to Student Body President Joe Murphy and the group of Independents who sent letters to freshmen during rush.

I would like to express publicly my appreciation to Mr. Joe Murphy for his speech in the assembly program last week and to the Independents who published a letter each day during rush. I believe that they played a significant role in the success of rush this year. While this was probably not the intended objective, the results of their efforts were a much more serious attitude assumed by the fraternity men and a degree of depth and perception, unknown in previous years, in the questions put forth by the rushees. I admit that the one-sidedness of the arguments and the too frequent exaggeration of some points proved a source of some concern. However, this was greatly outweighed by the frankness and unrestraint which prevailed on the court, the fruits of the criticism unleashed by Mr. Murphy and this group of Independents. Again, on behalf of the IFC, I express my sincere gratitude for what might be a long-needed stimulus.

CHAPEL MUSIC
Students assume customary 10 o’clock pose.

SCAR Recruits Black Students, Enables Them To Attend Tufts
By Intercollegiate Press

Twenty black students who might not have had the opportunity to attend college under normal admissions standards were enrolled in the freshman class at Tufts University last term through a student-run agency called SCAR. Recruited by Students Concerned About Racism, the 20 are guaranteed total financial aid, housing, and tutoring; the average was $3,000 per year. (Tufts’ tuition is $2,300.) The group includes 13 in Liberal Arts and Engineering and seven in Jackson College for Women.

“Some of these young men and women never would have been able to attend college,” says Assistant Dean of Admissions Roy M. Moore. The recruiting drive, which was carried out by 150 undergraduates, began last April 12 after a brief and peaceful confrontation between Dean of Admissions John C. Palmer and 300 students demanding additional male and female black students be admitted this year.

The Student Government Myth

Soon we will be having SGA elections, so this is a good time for all members of the association to try to evaluate objectively student government and its effect on the total life of Davidson students.

This is the time the SGA organization has its greatest effect on most students. It is a time of politicking, back-biting, and downright lying—in short, a brilliant display of the worst that this system has to offer. Each year, students force themselves to remember the list of committees, positions, and constitutional hierarchies that they will forget as soon as they leave the polling places.

They must also remember what fraternity brother is running for what office, and be certain that even the lowliest pledge finds his way to the ballot box. In speaking of student government, it is impossible to say anything basically new. Glancing through past records will convince observers that the same percentage of students vote and participate in campus government now as did years ago. There have been various student and faculty committees to investigate the problem. A new constitution was written, but according to two candidates for SGA president, that document has been largely ignored by campus politicos.

We have a new code of student responsibility, graciously handed to us by the powers that be. But it seems obvious that the trustees still intend to regulate student conduct. If you don't believe this, “abuse” the code, and see how long it will remain in effect. Dissatisfaction with the entire concept of student government is present in the student body, not just among the lethargic, but among those who realize that cliqueism and superficiality have permeated the system. Why, it’s almost like a fraternity!

When a student realizes this, he is better able to see the absurdity and artificiality of a government which has neither final authority nor ultimate control over a situation. It is a government bounded by a regulation from outside forces—i.e., faculty and administration. In the words of leftist Ray Mungo: “Student leaders do not exist, because they lack ultimate authority and ultimate control.”

One of the several basic weaknesses of the present system is the self-perpetuating “prevailing attitudes” which enter a power structure and block outside ideas. The Senate has a way of picking the same people time after time for study committees, thus perpetuating “prevailing ideas” of the power structure. One of the most wasteful aspects of the system seems to be the time spent campaigning for election. Each year students are subjected to the same worn-out promises and half-coated garbage, which seniors and juniors have learned to accept as drivel. The platforms sometimes look like the doodling of a candidate for president of the sixth grade at the Davidson Elementary School.

One of the alternatives might be to do away with the Senate and all other divisive influences and govern entirely by campus referendum. Other than for minor functions, student government would be a giant union—open to everyone!

That is just one of the alternatives that students could come up with if they could just free themselves from the cliques and prevailing attitudes which control the present system. But maybe the fault is not institutional, but lies with the personalities involved.

By BOB REID
Associate Editor

More than 200 candidates were reached; approximately 75 submitted the necessary credentials. Financing the extra students is a burden that has been accepted by students, faculty, staff, and trustees alike. More than 600 students have agreed to give up one meal a week this year, turning over the resultant proceeds to SCAR. Some have offered an additional one percent of their $2,300 tuition cost. About half of the faculty on the campus volunteered one percent of their salaries. Other faculty and staff made cash contributions. One professor contributed four percent of his salary.

One of the SCAR students is the son of a railroad fireman in Tuscaloosa, Ala., who ranked second in his class of 250, demonstrating creative writing promise. Another, from Pittsburgh, ranked 226 in a class of 265, was described by counselors as a “verbal cripple,” but Tufts found in him other very acceptable qualities.

WONDER WHY IT DIDN’T GET A BID?