STUDENT GOVERNMENT DISHONEST — ROWLAND (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969

“That the Davidson College faculty reaffirm its conviction that participation in the ROTC program at Davidson must be on a
voluntary basis, and that each entering student should be allowed to make his own decision concerning such participation after adequate
orientation into Military Science.” —Text of faculty resolution to be voted on this afternoon.

Faculty To Vote Today On Voluntary ROTC
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

The faculty is scheduled to vote this afternoon on a resolution for voluntary ROTC termed by its faculty sponsors “the
minimal representation of both faculty and student desires.” In a letter circulated to the faculty yesterday, five faculty members proposed
that the faculty reaffirm its stand in favor of voluntary ROTC, which it took in approving the Blue Sky recommendations
in November, 1967.

The resolution is apparently coming directly to the floor in the faculty because previous proposals, including one by the student
Senate, had not been reported out from the faculty’s Educational Policy Committee. Proposed by Charles E. Ratliff, Randall Kincaid, Alexander
J. McKelway, William E. Jackson, and W. Brown Patterson, the resolution reads:

“That the Davidson College faculty reaffirm its conviction that participation in the ROTC program at Davidson must be on a
voluntary basis, and that each entering student should be allowed to make his own decision concerning such participation after adequate
orientation to Military Science.”

ATO’s, Kappa Sigs Weigh Benefits Of Local Status
By GEORGE ALLEN
Associate Editor

At least two Davidson fraternities, the Alpha Tau Omega and the Kappa Sigma, have studied the question of leaving their
national fraternities and have discovered the advantages and disadvantages involved in their becoming local chapters. According to Martin Brackett, former
president of Kappa Sigma, and Jim Cooley, ATO pledge trainer, both fraternities have organized committees to study the local-national problem
and expect these committees to report their findings in the near future. As soon as the committees report, both fraternities
will vote on the proposals presented to them, said Brackett and Cooley.

The major objection the KS's have to remaining a national fraternity involves the large amount of money which they send
to the national headquarters each year in initiation fees. Brackett said that many of the members of Kappa Sigma feel
that this is a waste of money which could be better used by the local chapter. Jim Cooley said that
the ATO interest in becoming a local chapter centers around the objection to sending money to national, and the desire
for local autonomy. “We have sent $7,000 to our national fraternity in the last two years without receiving any benefits
we can really put our fingers on,” said Cooley.

The largest objection to national affiliation at the ATO house, however, seems to be their interest in local autonomy. “Right
now,” said Cooley, “we have to follow the policies of our national fraternity. We think that we should have local
authority on our selection processes, which would involve an alteration of the black-ball system. We would also like to rewrite
our ritual, bringing it up to date and making it significant to us,” Cooley continued.

As advantages of remaining national, Brackett said that the Kappa Sigma national has been very liberal with the Davidson chapter
in its selection and bidding procedures. Brackett added that the national offers several undergraduate scholarships for Kappa Sigmas and that
much of their financial support comes from the chapter's alumni, who favor a national tradition for Kappa Sigma at Davidson.
Cooley reported that ATO considers financial stability and the prestige of being a national fraternity the major advantages of staying
with the national organization.

Brackett was unsure of the prospects of Kappa Sigma going local this year. “I really don't know whether we will
go local or not,” said Brackett. “There are certain members of the house on both sides of the question. The
proposal to become a local chapter will be voted on in the next few weeks or so,” he said. Brackett
said that two-thirds of the active membership of Kappa Sigma here must approve before they will go local.

Local Man To Reopen Lefty’s Den
By JIM PHILIPS
Staff Writer

William S. Murphy of Davidson has leased the Wildcat Den from ex-Davidson basketball coach Lefty Driesell. Murphy, director of the
Union food service from 1953 to 1957 and presently manager of Ivey's cafeteria in Charlotte, said that he and his
son will run the restaurant. He also foresaw some changes in the present operation. “We will feature instant service on
our orders,” he said, and “anticipate serving draught beer with orders in the near future.”

“We plan to upgrade service all around, because we believe this is the sort of thing that a college town
like Davidson needs,” he added. Murphy added that much of his help will come from college boys themselves, stating that
he had “had good experiences with the college before.” The restaurant is scheduled to open Tuesday and will be open
during lunch time on a trial basis.

CRITICIZE WAR EFFORT
Riegle, Gilligan Cite Nation’s Ills

A young Republican congressman and a former Democratic congressman who has maintained a voice in national politics discussed their ideas
and views with students this week as part of the YMCA’s Great Issues Symposium. Donald W. Riegle Jr., a 31-year-old
Republican congressman from Michigan, and John J. Gilligan, who achieved an upset victory over U. S. Senator Frank Lausche in
last fall's Ohio Democratic primary before losing in the November elections, spoke to relatively small audiences and seminars Monday and
Tuesday.

Both men spoke of the Vietnam war and discussed party politics in their individual appearances. Riegle, who returned last week
from a trip to Southeast Asia, said that the most realistic solution to the Vietnam problem lies in a gradual
“de-Americanization” of the war. He said that it is unrealistic to hope for a negotiated settlement on terms favorable to
the present American position, and concluded that the best way to untangle theWeb of involvement in a slow reduction in
actual aggregate manpower: “The only thing that we ought to guarantee the South Vietnamese at this point is a fighting
chance to make it on their own," Riegle said. A long-time critic of the economic war in Vietnam, Riegle also
noted that the American strategic interests are not worth the cost in lives and dollars so far poured into the
war. He said that the South Vietnamese, particularly President Thieu, are even ahead of the United States in the “de-Americanization”
plan, and commented that public protest against the war will grow at an amazing rate unless President Richard Nixon shows
a fundamental change of direction in Vietnam soon.

Gilligan joined Riegle in his criticism of the present U.S. effort in Vietnam. In a seminar with students Tuesday afternoon,
he said that Vietnam, much like the current controversy over the anti-ballistic missile program, has seen tensions multiply. Last year,
one demonstration involving a Soviet flag reportedly brought down upon the ROTC Department here the wrath of both North Carolina
senators and several representatives after the Charlotte Observer revealed that one demonstrator was in advanced ROTC. This year, the student
Senate has passed two resolutions for voluntary ROTC, and two committees to handle them, but all its proposals were apparently
lost when the Educational Policy Committee sent back the second resolution to the Senate for additional background on the matter.
The Senate's committee had agreed to provide this information after the first resolution was returned to the Senate but had
not supplied the information.

WHO WILL BE NEW COACH? (See Page Five)

NUMBER TWENTY

Seniors Win Watson, Rockefeller Fellowships

ANDERSON BAKER

Two Davidson seniors have been named to receive Watson Fellowships for 1969-70, under a new fellowship program giving unrestricted grants
of $6,000 for a year of independent study and travel abroad. Two others have received Rockefeller Grants. Winning Watson grants
are Grant Anderson and Thomas Baker. In addition, Michael LaPlante was named an alternate. They were among 50 fellowship winners
and 10 alternates chosen from 776 applicants, 119 of whom were nominated by their colleges. James Cooley and Charles Mendenhall
have been awarded Rockefeller Trial Year Fellowships for the year 1969-1970. These awards enable students who agree to consider entering
the ordained ministry to attend accredited theological school on a one-year trial basis.

MENDENHALL COOLEY

‘Minority Problems’ Face Larger Negro Enrollment

By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Asst. Managing Editor

Recent racial conflicts on college campuses, the Black Separatist movements, and the whole question of interracial relationships may begin to
really affect Davidson next year. This year, Davidson's American Negro students number six strong, a smaller group than Davidson’s foreign
students. Next year, there may be as many as 20 black students, two percent of the student body. For the
first time, Davidson will be contending with a numerically significant black minority.

Joe Martin, an administrative assistant at Duke, spoke at Davidson two weeks ago concerning the roots of Negro discontent in
white colleges. “It is a problem of small minorities," he said. “Negroes in the ‘prestige’ colleges usually make up two
percent of the enrollment. The blacks find themselves in an alien society; they are forced to act white.” Martin said.
“They lose their identity and are subjected to continual, subtle discriminations. The Black Separatist movement is an attempt by black
students to establish an identity.” he said. “The movement is forcing the colleges to reexamine themselves after they find out
that merely integrating a few black people into a racist structure is no way to solve racial problems.”

Davidson College is acquiring a black community at a time when much change seems imminent in patterns and attitudes on
campus. A new college president, who has had to face the Code of Responsibility and the mechanics of the Blue
Sky Curriculum, will soon have to face the coming of the Negro. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. admitted that he
would not try to predict the impact of greater Negro enrollment. “It would be impossible to say,” he said. “Relationships
are in flux, nationally and locally.”

Spencer listed advantages and disadvantages for the Negro student at Davidson. “Davidson can offer, as a small college, relative ease
in establishing personal relationships and identities. We are, of course, going to give everyone the best education we can. Negro
students have much to contribute.” There are disadvantages which are not inconsiderable. “This school,” said Spencer, “in a small, southern
town, and with a college social life that is highly stylized and traditional, will offer special problems to black students,
or any new diversity in the student body. It appears that we are going to have to face these problems
soon.”

One of the presidential commissions, the Social Patterns Commission, has been studying the social problems of Negro students at Davidson.
Committee chairman C. Shaw Smith said, “We've not been able to reach any definite recommendations. There are so many contingencies,
coeducation, urbanization, fraternities, and so on, that it’s hard to say where to begin.” Smith added that he is looking
forward to a larger black enrollment. “The problems of black students as a group have been ignored here because there
are so few black students. In the handbook, for example, none of (See NEGRO, Page 6)

419-To-110 Vote Ends Squabbling

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

Recent action by various facets of the SGA has resulted in apparent settlement of Davidson's constitutional crisis and has set
in motion a proposal which would allow scholarship students to have cars on campus. The constitutional issue was settled by
a vote of the student body, thus bringing to a close a dispute which has continued over several months. By
a vote of 419 to 110, the students approved a group of amendments which removed the entire student judicial system
from the constitution, both the Honor Court and the highly contested Court of Appeals being removed. This action was favored
by SGA President Peter Hobbie, who maintained that the Court of Appeals is not necessary under the present constitutional situation.
The amendments also provided for the return of the old system of constitutional amendment. The Senate meeting last Tuesday approved
a report which recommends that scholarship students be allowed to keep cars on campus.
