The Skin Team, Revisited

Last year the word “skin team" became synonymous with the second team, the scrubs, the AYOs (All you others), or whatever you want to call those players who sit and watch. This year, now that half the season is gone, I can evaluate the ‘69 version of the Davidson skins. Choosing a skin team is very different from finding a starting five. Instead of picking out the players from a group at the beginning of the season, you take what's left. This year the remains are Tony Orsbon, Fox DeMoisey, Jan Postma, Duncan Postma, and myself. Billy Pierce is a skin team skin. I guess that's hard to beat. With the exception of Duncan, the members of this year's skin team are veterans. Tony and I are two-year letter skins while Fox and Jan have one year of skin experience under their belts. Duncan and Billy are starting to get the hang of the type of game we play but they still need a little work. Gone from last year’s skin team are Tom Youngdale and Bob Pickens. In practice, we miss Tiger Tom's ability to rebound using his head, arms, and feet. Also at times, I wish Bob was back to throw in his running left-handed hook shot from the corner. Still, despite the absence of these two, we have what I feel is one of the better skin teams in the nation.

Tony Orsbon is our All-American skin team candidate this year. Last year he took all-conference skin honors easily and it's hard to find a more dedicated skin anywhere in this part of the country. Tony receives no scholarship and plays strictly for the glory of the skin team, whatever that is. At times, different skins get their chance to play with the starters and tend to lose their identity. Tony always knows where he’s best suited and even if he gets a chance to play with the shirts he probably will refuse. This year Lefty has short-stopped the process of naming the skins in practice when we have a scrimmage. He just looks at me and tells me to get “my team” out on the floor. He then tells me what to run and we roll into action. The skins usually run through the opposition's offensive plays the day before Davidson is scheduled to play a game. In this way, we get to know their plays and offense sometimes better than the opposition does. Instead of our usual run-and-shoot type of play at the end of a game, I have always thought it would be fun if the skins would run the opposing team's offense. It might surprise somebody, including ourselves.

The main difference between this year's skins and last season’s bench boys is that we lack height. Tony ends up guarding either Maloy or Cook along with me, Jan tries to stop Kroll while Duncan draws O'Neill or Huckel. The starters usually overpower us with their height, but we do have some pride and at times we give them a good game. Before the Wake Forest game last week when the television announcer was introducing the starting lineups we thought about lining the skins up in front of the bench and have each player sit down when I called his name. Likewise, whenever you ask a skin how he did in a game he'll probably say he hit 60 or 70 percent, in the warmups. Incidentally, Jan’s been having a bad year, hitting only about 50 percent, but he’s been taking tough shots, so we excuse him. After Kroll and Cook were injured in the VMI game, Lefty told the team in a meeting Monday that he wanted all of us ready to go on Thursday “in case our number came up.” After we heard this, Fox turned to me and whispered, “I don’t think my number has ever been on the wheel.”

In fairness to Lefty, I have to explain that the skins are treated like shirts in regard to awards. Even though we don't receive the publicity the starters do, we get the same number of free tickets, the same treatment on road trips, the same kind of watch after a tournament, and the same amount of meal money. The starters get the glory and the praise for winning which they certainly should. Our satisfaction is personal. Still, I have to agree with Tony, who said there is only one way Davidson College would ever retire his uniform. He would have to steal it.

KENT RHODES PULLS DOWN REBOUND
Surprising Sig Eps win two openers.

Wildcats Tackle Improved Citadel

With five returnees this season, including the team’s most valuable player and the nation’s leader in field goal percentage this season, The Citadel brings its Bulldogs to Johnston Gym tomorrow night. Davidson will be seeking to run up its long winning streak on its home floor against the Cadets, who show excellent chances for a winning season after last year’s 11-14 season. Most valuable player Tee Hooper, 6'4", leads the team in scoring. Hooper is recognized by most students as The Citadel's number one singles tennis champion. Also with the team is Al Kroboth, who in recent official statistics led the nation in field goal accuracy, hitting on nearly 70 percent of his shots. Six-seven Hoke Hill, a sophomore, will have the honors of facing Davidson's Mike Maloy under the basket, while the outside scoring threat is provided by another sophomore, Ben Ledbetter, who led the freshman team in scoring last year with a 34-point average. For Davidson, Jerry Kroll and Doug Cook should be back at full strength after suffering ankle injuries. However, against The Citadel's inexperience under the boards, the Wildcats will no doubt work considerably to Maloy, who is third in conference scoring behind George Washington's Bob Tallent and Furman's Dick Eakins. The taller Wildcats can also be expected to dominate the boards, with Cook and Maloy leading the way in the rebound department. Davidson leads the series competition 41-26, with virtually complete dominance in the last six years.

The Davidsonian
January 24, 1969
Page Five

Surprising Sig Eps, Betas Dominating IMAC Action

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The Sig Eps and the Betas have been two of the big surprises in the early part of IMAC basketball competition. The Sig Eps are presently tied for the league lead and are defying the Berry Poll with their undefeated record. The SPEs are just barely undefeated, however, as both of their victories have been by a single point, 41-40 over the Phi Gammas and 46-45 over the Independents. Both victories were team efforts, but the big individuals for the SPEs were Fletcher Harwell and Kent Rhodes. Rhodes has carried the rebounding load in both games, while Harwell handles the offense. The team’s proud point has been the defense. The Sig Eps are one of the few teams in the league to put up a man-to-man defense, and thus far it has been successful for them. Bove Shepherd has been the big man on defense, as he has engineered numerous steals. Rebounding on both the offensive and defensive boards is the major problem the Sig Eps face. Rhodes is the only tall man and cannot handle the rebounding load alone. The other starters for the SPEs are Wade Shepherd and George Steel. Marvin Bethune and Gary Slaton are the top reserves. The SPEs are hoping to improve on their 3-9 record of last year, but only the rest of the season will tell whether they can achieve their goal or not.

The Betas have a record thus far, including impressive victories over the Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs and a close win in the hotly contested Sigma Nus. The play of the Betas has been nothing less than impressive. They have been unselfish on offense, rebounded exceptionally well for their size, and played tremendous defense. The defense was probably the key to the victories. The Betas play a 2-1-2 zone which shifts rapidly enough to force most outside shots. Mike Culbreth and Johnny Baker have controlled the defensive backboards and seldom allow more than one shot. The offense has been unspectacular but steady. Baker usually leads the scoring, but the other starters have scored fairly well. One of the strongest points of the offense has been the free throw shooting. In the victory over the Kappa Sigs, the Betas made 11 of 13 free throws to insure the seven-point win. Besides Baker and Culbreth, the other starters are Bob Torrey, Charles Cowsert, and Henry Marrow. Bill Gammon, Mackey Reavis, and Butler Rice have played very well in reserve roles. Rice excited the crowd before the Sig game with his dunk shots in warmup. The Betas are riding high with their victories over the highly rated Delts and Sigs. They are enthusiastically gunning for the league championship. Their enthusiasm has prompted Baker and Gammon to remark that they both call “declamation” the undefeated Pikas in their coming encounter on Monday night.

IMAC STANDINGS
Sigma Nu 3-0
Sig Eps 3-0
Pikas 3-0
Phi Delts 2-1
Betas 2-1
SAE 1-1
KA 1-1
Mathis 1-2
ATO 1-2
Kappa Sigs 1-2
Pi Kapps 0-2
Indies 0-2
Gimms 0-3Leading In IMAC Basketball
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

Only three undefeated teams remain in IMAC basketball as the week's competition spread out the standings. The Sigma Nu's are at the top of the league with a 3-0 record. In their only game of the week, they soundly whipped the Phi Gamma, 68-48, with an outstanding display of unselfish basketball. Toby Westmoreland, Steve Hoyos, and Bruce Weldner poured in the points, and Calvin Murphy cleared the boards. Only the removal of all the starters at the end of the third quarter kept the margin of victory from being much larger.

The Pikas are also undefeated, at 2-0. In their only encounter of the week, they trounced the Kappa Sigs, 87-68, with a fourth-quarter tally in which they outscored the Sigs 33-16. The Sigs actually led by four at the end of the third quarter, but Joe Lansinger and Mark Affeldt took control of the defensive backboard, and Affeldt, Floyd Strand, and Jack Ballenger bolstered the Sigs with the fast break to wrap up the win.

The Sig Ep's are the other undefeated team, but they did not see action this week. The Betas came on strong Wednesday night to hand the Sigs their second loss of the week, 59-46. Johnny Baker led the scoring with 17 points, and Mike Culbreth followed with 12. The Pi Delts brought their record to 2-1 with a going-away victory over the SAE's, 71-55. It was the first loss for the SAE's. John McCammon and Gene Early led the Dust.

The A's forsook basketball etiquette and routed the Pi Kappa Phis with a full-court press, 96-20. The highlight of the game was when Pi Kapp B. F. Martin, in anger over a referee's call, kicked the ball through the basket from half court. The ATO’s won their first game of the season with a 63-59 victory over the Sigma Chi’s. Brad Danielson and John Hanselman led the scoring as Slim McDowell directed the offense. Mort Chiles was instrumental in the victory with some fine outside shooting in the second half.

Lack Of Depth Slows Tankmen
By ALEX GORDON
Sports Writer

Lack of depth appears to be the principal obstacle standing in the way of success for Davidson's swimming team. The Wildcat tankmen were outpointed by William and Mary in their last meet, 69-35. Tuesday, they fell by 72-35 to a surprisingly good Catawba team. “It's such a tough sport physically that you can't keep boys out,” notes Coach Tom Stevens. The relevance of this statement is especially clear this year, as the Davidson team is only carrying nine swimmers. However, Coach Stevens feels that these boys have some outstanding ability and potential.

Leading the group are lettermen Mac Davis, a junior, and Jack Steele and Bill Woodson, sophomores. These three are especially strong in the sprints. Last year, they helped rewrite half of the Wildcat swimming records. Coach Stevens is particularly high on Jimmy Winn, one of the three freshmen on the team. Winn swims the breaststroke and the individual medley. The two other freshmen are Ben Lacy and Kurt Geisinger. Sophomores John Cronin, Mike Newton, and Earl Robinson round out the squad. Letterman John Brawner, another sophomore, is Davidson's only diver, and according to Coach Stevens, does an exceptional job. The next meet is Tuesday against Appalachian in the Davidson pool at 7 p.m.

Athletic Director Tom Scott Has Dull, But Important Schedule
By A. W. TURNER
Sports Writer

While the coaches take the spotlight in the public's eyes, a driving force behind Davidson sports is almost a forgotten man. Many students who can identify Coaches Homer Smith or Lefty Driesell probably have never seen or recognized the athletic director of the school, Dr. Tom Scott. Scott's responsibilities are numerous and many phases of his job are 12-months at full tilt. He usually begins work at around 8:30, looking through his mail and answering correspondence which needs a reply. This takes about 45 minutes. It is then his responsibility to balance the basketball ticket returns. Figuring the amount received from complimentary tickets, season tickets, and other forms of special tickets, and checking his results with those obtained by the treasurer’s office is an unexciting and tedious job. This work may be completed before lunch or may last until mid-afternoon. The time depends mainly on how busy Scott is with his badge points of other tasks.

Scott is repeatedly interrupted. Phone calls and visitors often postpone the completion of the ticket balancing. Thus, in actuality, he can perform his duties only intermittently. Since he serves on the Southern Conference basketball committee, and the Southern Conference Tournament is being held in Charlotte this year, Scott receives numerous calls concerning details which have to be handled. Reservations for visiting teams’ players take much of his time. Coaches see him two or three times a day, working on schedules. He is now in the process, too, of interviewing potential assistant football coaches. The scheduling of officials for non-conference games also makes work here.

With the new year just started, Scott is now working on the 1969 budget for the athletic department. After each coach makes out a budget for his particular department, the athletic director will have to check through each one and organize the final budget. The promotion of athletic events takes planning. Scott must decide how much to advertise, which games to have televised, and many other publicity matters. The physical education program is also under him. Organizing classes and assigning instructors is also his responsibility. Scott is always working very late. As newspaper reporters and radio and television men take up his time. He has “special days,” too. As a member of countless committees, Scott has to attend conventions and special meetings several times each year. Just recently, he attended an NCAA convention in Los Angeles. In February, he lists meetings of the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics in Houston. Despite this potpourri of jobs, Scott still has time in the spring to coach the golf team. One of his fondest dreams is to have a golf course beyond the baseball field, at walking distance for Davidson students. Although unnoticed by many students, Scott serves in a vital capacity in Davidson athletics. His work is never the same from day to day, since he receives a constant stream of unexpected visitors and phone calls. It is a job of busy work, but as Scott describes it, "an interesting one."

FABULOUS DINING
"International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

DON'T LOOK NOW
But you may be about to blow your life. A surprising number of people make one stupid and tragic mistake. To put it simply, they jump into careers without really looking. The result—a dreary life of frustration and anger. Can this happen to you? Could be—unless you can answer questions like these to your own satisfaction before you make your move: Are you really a Chief...or an Indian? Do you belong in a big organization? Or a small one? Or do you belong by yourself? Can you really stand pressure? There are a great many serious questions you must ask—and answer—about a career. But the most critical are the ones you ask yourself about you. Unless you can answer them honestly it makes little sense to ask, for example, “What's it really like to be an investment banker?”

Careers Today can tell you what it's like to be an investment banker. More important, this meaningful new magazine can help you decide whether becoming an investment banker is even a sensible option for you in the first place! It's a magazine about careers that starts not with jobs, but with people. And it's dedicated to the proposition that you must do your own thing...and that if you don't, you run the grave risk of blowing your life. CAREERS Today is for people who are searching...for people who have discovered how to do their own thing. How about you? Could you use a little truth at this point in your search? Use the coupon below or the coupon in the colorful brochure distributed with this paper...to enter your Charter Subscription to CAREERS Today at the special Charter price of just $5 for one year (11 issues) instead of the regular post-Charter price of $10.

P.O. Box 6811, Beverly Hills, Calif. 90212
Yes, enter my Charter Subscription to CAREERS Today at the special Charter price of $5 for one year (11 issues) instead of the regular post-Charter price of $10. I enclose $5. (Check or money order, please. No cash.) This offer is limited to new subscribers only and expires soon. So act now!

Name
Address
City
State
Zip