FOUL PICTURES (See Page Four)

BULLETIN

Tait Davidson edged out Dayton in Madison Square Gardens last night, 64-63. The win came when Mike Maloy put in
a layup as the buzzer sounded.

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969

VOLUME LV NUMBER FIFTEEN

State ABC Board Approves Permit
Town Goes Wet After 131 Years
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

After 131 dry years, the Town of Davidson has finally gone wet. Beer and wine, which were banned within five
miles of the campus by the college’s 1837 charter, can now be bought and consumed legally within the town limits.
Mrs. Colleen Norket, owner of the Davidson Grocery on Depot Street, was informed Tuesday that her long-sought beer permit had
been granted by the State Board of Alcoholic Control in Raleigh. Mrs. Norket said her permit allows the sale of
beverages of up to 20 percent alcoholic content. “We hope to stay open later in the evenings now,” Mrs. Norket
said, “and to open Sunday afternoon after 1 pm.”

Opposition to Mrs. Norket’s permit came from the Davidson Town Council, which passed a resolution against beer and wine sales
last November. At that time, Mayor F. L. Jackson offered to reimburse Mrs. Norket's $25 fee if she would withdraw
her application for the permit. Mrs. Norket refused his offer and said then that she intended to “see the process
through.” In December, when the ABC board turned down the grocer’s request, Enforcement Director Lee H. Phillips said, “The establishment
cannot be considered a suitable place and/or location for the sale of beer and wine.” Mrs. Norket then hired J.
Melville Broughton Jr. to present her appeal of the board's decision.

Rusk Visits Here Today
Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk, ’31, will be back on campus today and tomorrow— but only as a “private
citizen on vacation,” not an official college guest. Rusk will make no public statements, the President’s Office announced this week,
but he is expected to meet “with a couple of political science classes.” Rusk served as Secretary of State from
1961 until last month under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. He and former college President D. Grier
Martin have been longtime friends, and the major purpose of his visit is to visit Dr. and Mrs. Martin. Martin
and Rusk, who were a class apart, were basketball teammates, and recently the two have met yearly when Davidson played
basketball near Washington. Rusk’s vacation is said to be the first since he assumed the State Department post eight years
ago. The last time he was in Davidson was 1962, a brief visit highlighted by a surprise trip to Johnston
Gymnasium, where the ex-cager sank several set shots.

SGA Ratifies Revision
By a narrow margin, the student body ratified yesterday an amendment to the SGA Constitution making the Senate Executive Committee
appointive rather than elected by the Senate. The vote was about 490-30. Although the vote was overwhelmingly in favor of
the change, only a bare majority of the SGA voted. For an amendment to pass, at least a majority of
the SGA must vote, and of those voting, at least two-thirds must vote in favor. The amendment was approved by
the constitutional convention in written balloting late Wednesday night and in the early hours of Thursday morning after the convention
had adjourned for lack of a quorum.

Appeals Court Bans Campusing, Censures Senate
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

An advisory writ limiting room searching, banning campusing, and limiting college jurisdiction to on-campus activities, and a writ censuring the
Senate for certain procedures and calling for reform have been released by the Court of Appeals. The writs, which filled
five legal-sized pages, were delivered Wednesday to the campus judiciary, the Senate, and Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr.
The main provisions of the writ of order to the Senate included the criticisms that election bylaws are “an ungodly
mess” and that SGA record keeping is “incomprehensible at best and a farce at worst.”

Election Laws
The writ also ordered the Senate to obey the constitution, with respect to appointment, which the court says is an
executive, not a legislative power except in appointment of a constitutional convention and of Senate officers and committees. Another main
provision ordered reapportionment of the Senate, so that representation did not vary more than by 20 percent, as opposed to
the present variance of up to 62 percent. By provision of the writ, the Class of ’69, married, and off-campus
students are to be represented. Concerning Article IV, Section 6b, the court said, “this clause means that no student possessions
or residences may be searched nor evidence seized, without specific authorization.” “The basis of such authorization must not be rumor
or suspicion, but fact based on material evidence or sworn testimony,” the writ said. The court ruled that dormitory-wide searches
without an individual student's permission are not permissible.” The writ cited the Supreme Court decision of Jan. 27, 1968, in
the case of William Spinelli, in ruling that search authorization must be detailed in specifying the object of search and
area to be searched, and is valid only as “private citizen on vacation,” not an official college guest.

Hobbie expressed three areas of concentration for his administration in dealing with the Code of Responsibility. “We have got to
do away with the legalisms that hang over the code. The first problem concerns attendance requirements and the second involves
the restrictions on students holding scholarships. Another problem covers the area of curfews and general dormitory restrictions.”

Youth Fare Rates May Get The Axe
By GEORGE ALLEN
News Editor

The status of airline youth fares is up in the air, and may be in for a long fall. The
Civil Aeronautics Board soon will hear an appeal of examiner Arthur Present’s decision that student airline rates are discriminatory against
persons over the age of 21. Unless Present’s ruling is overturned at the Feb. 21 hearing, the popular half fare
stand-by and 2/3 reserved rates will cease. Youth fares are available to persons under 22 years of age and offer
a 50 percent discount on stand-by flights and a 33 percent discount on reserved flights. The fares are subject to
some blackout restriction periods when they can't be used, generally over weekends and holidays. The half price is also offered
only on a stand-by basis. Use of the fares has sharply increased since they were introduced.

RANKS SWELL
The Richardson Fellows program, a Richardson Foundation financed program to seek out and develop potential leaders, added nine new freshmen
to its ranks this week. Selected for the program were Danny Clodfelter of Thomasville, who is on the debating team
and the Free University coordinating committee; Bill Lineaweaver of Gainesville, Fla., who is an assistant managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN,
a member of the constitutional convention and a Sigma Phi Epsilon pledge.to be operative. In the past, the CAB has
upheld the discounts as a legitimate promotional technique. But the board has been ordered by a federal court to investigate
the regulations in response to complaints from several bus companies. Currently, 24 U.S. airlines offer discounts of between 33 1/3
per cent and 50 per cent on regular jet coach fares to persons between 12 and 21 years old. The
youth fares offered by the major airlines come in several categories. There are half-price tickets for the 12-to-21 age group
and special youth group fares which usually involve only the purchase of a nominally priced identification card. The young adult
reserve seat fare was first introduced by American Airlines in January 1966. The number on domestic operations has jumped to
3.8 million for the year ended June 30 from 2.1 million the year before. A spokesman for American said, “while
the airline has not had time to completely study the examiner’s report, we will vigorously pursue retention of standby discount
rates.”

rules on social life. “Of course, this is all very general and such problems as student recruiting and voluntary ROTC
fall into this same area concerning the code. Student government will continue to keep the pressure on in these areas
but the problem of fraternities is a student problem and the SGA will support those that see the need for
change. The system (See PRESIDENT, Page 6) were Cecil Burney, Danny Clodfelter, Bill Lineaweaver, Mark Meza, Howard Ramagli, Steve Salyer,
Jack Thomas, Jody Turner, and Lawrence Wilkinson. Cecil Burney is from Corpus Christi, Texas. He has served as a residence
hall senator and is now a senator at-large. Burney is also a member of the American Guild of Organists and
a pledge of Beta Theta Pi.

Spencer Picks Committees For Campus Reevaluation
By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

The President's Office announced Monday the formation of six new committees, four of which will be student-faculty committees. The new
committees deal with Extra-Classroom Education, Learning Resources, Inter-Institutional Cooperation, and the Student Store. Faculty members have been chosen for each
of the committees, with student appointments yet to come.

The Committee on Extra-Classroom Education will attempt to plan activities complementary to students’ classroom instruction. This will involve dealing with
many current programs such as chapel, the Artist Series, and the various existing lecture programs in an effort to achieve
some sort of balance in the offerings presented to the students. The committee will also deal with the problem of
ensuring an audience for outside speakers as well as providing for the most effective use of the time they spend
on campus. Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes will chair the committee, assisted by Dr. George L. Abernethy, Dr. R. R. Bernard,
and W. E. Jackson. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., C. Shaw Smith, and the Rev. Scott Woodmansee will
serve as ex-officio members of the committee. Three students are to be chosen by the student government to complete the
committee.

Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston will head the Committee on the Honors College, whose function will be to plan
in detail the college as an element of the new curriculum. Dr. Frank Bliss, Dr. Alan Brinkley, Dr. Brown Patterson,
Dr. Locke White, Dr. A. A. Wolf, and Dr. Erich Wruck will also serve on the committee, in addition to
three students to be named by the Senate Executive Committee (SEC).

The Committee on International Students will evaluate the college's program for international students in light of the fact that funding
by the Richardson Foundation has ceased. Recommendations for the future of the program will be offered by this committee, whose
chairman, Dr. Max Polley, will be aided by Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. J. D. Kelton, Dr. Sam Maloney, and
Dr. Hallam Walker. The student-faculty committee on the Student Store is to evaluate the store and recommend future directions for
it to take. Brinkley will chair this committee, assisted by Dr. Anthony Abbott, Bliss, and Dr. T. A. Williams. Store
Director H. Edmunds White will serve as ex-officio members of the committee, and three student members are to be appointed
by the SEC.

(See COMMITTEES, Page 6)

Mark Meza of Washington, D.C., has been active in the Student Recruiting Program, STEP, and the Students for a Democratic
Society (SDS) in affiliation with the Grape Boycott. Meza is a pledge of Sigma Chi. Howard Ramagli of Miami, Fla.,
is a co-circulation manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a Dean's List student, a member of the constitutional convention, and a Sigma
Chi pledge. Steve Salyer of Cincinnati, Ohio, has served as a freshman senator and as Freshman Class president. Jack Thomas
of Columbus, Ga., works for Quips & Cranks, the Davidson annual, and is a pledge of Beta Theta Pi. Jody
Turner of Greensboro has been a senator at-large, a member of the Senate Committee on ROTC, a delegate to the
constitutional convention from the Senate, a Dean's List student, and a pledge of Pi Kappa Alpha. Lawrence Wilkinson of Bartow,
Fla., is a residence hall senator, a member of the Student Recruiting Program, and a pledge of Kappa Alpha. The
nine freshmen were selected from a group of 20 finalists following an evaluation retreat at Montreat last weekend. The program,
which was begun here three years ago, has 22 sophomores and juniors.

Burts Jr. said yesterday, the regulations will include a decision on the fraternity house curfew rule, which the Interfraternity Council
Judicial Board refused to enforce last week because they felt it was in conflict with the section on the Code
of Responsibility. “The Dean's Council is preparing the rules,” said Burts, “because this seemed the logical body to prepare them.
Since they are administrative rules, though, they must be approved by the entire administration.” He said this would include President
Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, and Business Manager Robert A. Currie. Burts declined direct comment
on the council’s discussion of the curfew rule. He did say, however, that the curfew was not being considered in
light of the intent of the Committee on Rules and Punishments, which was to abolish the curfew rule. “The code
did not speak on this point, as it did on the question of drinking and allowing women in the dormitories,”
he said, “so it is still an open question as to whether the rule should be retained.” Burts declined to
illustrate what types of things were being considered by the Dean's Council. He also said that the council met yesterday,
but that he did not know exactly when it would meet again. He indicated that it would be in the
near future.

The following schedule for open dorms Saturday has been approved by the Residence Hall Council, SGA vice president, and Residence
Hall Council chairman Tom Opie announced. Belk will be open 2-5 p.m. and 7-12 p.m., Cannon, Duke, East, and Little
9-12 p.m., Richardson 2-5 p.m., and Watts 8-12 p.m.
