AUSTRALIA, FOOTBALL, ITALY? Five Senior Basketballers Making Post-Grad Plans By CHARLIE TERRELL Sports Writer

Although graduation will end the collegiate careers of the five senior basketballers who were vital members of this year’s nationally fourth-ranked team, for three of these players there is a possibility of continuing their athletic careers as professionals.

ROCKY CROSSWHITE HEADED DOWN UNDER

Rocky Crosswhite, the 6-9 center who captained the renowned Skin team, appears to be the most certain about his plans. He has been talking with a basketball team in Australia, and he seems anxious to play there. “If they offer me the contract I want,” said Crosswhite, “then I'll sign.” So it seems that Rocky, called “Turk” by some Davidson fans, will perhaps get a chance to display his talents in the land of the kangaroo.

Dave Moser, the team captain and playmaker, appears to be interested in playing for an Italian basketball team. He was not available for comments due to a recent accident which caused him to be hospitalized, but he has made it known that he would like to play in Italy. Moser said that he could work for an insurance company in his hometown of Fort Wayne, Indiana, if an offer abroad fails to materialize.

There has been speculation that Wayne Huckel, Moser's backcourt companion, will sign with the New Orleans Saints of the National Football League. Huckel said that the only contact he has had with the Saints has been telephone calls, and that nothing has been decided yet.

Mike O'Neill, who saw much action as a valuable reserve and started while Jerry Kroll and Doug Cook were ailing, was not available for comment on his plans. He stated that he is definitely interested in a teaching and coaching position at Statesville High School in Statesville, N.C.

Tony Orsbon, a member of the Skin team, wants to hitchhike across the United States this summer. Next year he plans to attend Vanderbilt University Law School.

Improving Spann Leads Linksters To Confusing Conference Tourney By DON PARMAN Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson's domination of Southern Conference golf will be on the line in the forthcoming Conference tournament and head coach Tom Scott is not sure how it’s all going to turn out. The Cats will be gunning for their fourth straight championship but Scott said “it's hard to tell just what's going to happen. At this point I'd have to say that the teams to beat are Furman, The Citadel, and East Carolina, in that order. We should be rated about fourth.”

Scott is counting on the “steady improvement” from the team as a result of the tough matches against Atlantic Coast Conference competition. Scott hopes this improvement will put the linksters at their peak for the conference tournament. “They'll have to be at their best if they want to win the tournament,” he said.

Davidson's lineup is fairly well set with Mike Spann, an honorable mention All-American, Doug Clark, Cary Hite, Danny White, K. D. Weeks, Ed Terry, and either Toby Dawson or tennis player Randy Jones leading the team. Spann has been playing “real well” in recent weeks according to Scott and rates an excellent chance to regain his individual title. Last year Spann finished 19th in the NCAA championships. Spann turned in a two under par performance against North Carolina to snare medalist honors in the team's last outing.

The tournament will be held in Pinehurst, North Carolina, on the Pinehurst number two course May 5-7. Monday will be a practice round followed by 36 holes of competition on Tuesday and Wednesday. Some confusion was settled with a mail vote of the conference coaches over the issue of whether to count four or five scores for each team. The problem stemmed from a proposal offered by Scott to allow each team to enter seven instead of the traditional six-man squads. After this motion was approved by the coaches, the debate over the number of these scores to be recorded began. In the past, the best four of six scores had been used to determine the team total for the championship. Scott said that he voted for the proposal to use five scores because “it doesn't make much sense to use seven players if you are only going to count four scores. That's only about half of the boys playing for points.” According to official word received by Scott this week, the proposal for five scores passed by a 7-1 vote.

Among the familiar faces at the tournament will be that of volatile Lewis Mills of Richmond. Mills is in his seventh season as golf coach at Richmond.

Footballers Lose Scouts Watch Practices By RUSS MERRITT, Sports Editor

For want of a good knee, a player was lost. This was the case for the Davidson football team this past week as it was announced that Jim Hovis, a junior fullback from Richmond, Va., would apparently be lost to the Wildcats for the rest of his college career. “It hurts us to lose a boy with Jim's potential,” head coach Homer Smith said. “He could have been a real boost to the team this year, and I'm very sorry to have to lose him. He's been a great help to us.”

Hovis actually injured his knee by a fluke accident in one of the last practices of the year last season. Since then, he has been trying to regain the strength in his knee by exercise and an operation, but to no avail. “He gave it his all to be able to get well to play this year,” Smith said. “I'm sorry that he won't be able to.”

Hovis’ knee, however, was the only dark spot to mar the otherwise fine spring practice thus far. “We're coming along very well,” Smith commented. “I feel that this is going to be easily the best Davidson team that I've coached. Spring practice, the players’ improvement, the dedication, the spirit, and everything else is as good as I ever hoped it would be.”

Professional scouts have been visiting the Wildcat practices with regularity, and it’s no secret why. The passing combination of Gordon Slade and Mike Kelly and the kicking ability of Ed Terry have been attracting attention for some time. “Mike is definitely pro material,” Smith said of his star split end. “He’s got the strength, moves, hands, and everything else that a good receiver needs. Slade and Terry are good prospects, too.”

At least one new twist in Wildcat football will be shown to fans next season in the form of a new offensive formation. To increase the running attack Smith has devised a formation in which both ends are split wide on either side of the line and the backfield kept in tight. This would improve the inside running threat as well as the passing potential, according to Smith. Another boost to the inside running game has been John Zaharov. Zaharov “could give us the ground attack that we're working for,” Smith said. “He has so far shown us the heaviest inside running that we've had in four years.”

Pessimistic Coach Predicts Net Loss By A. W. TURNER JR. Asst. Sports Editor

Extreme pessimism was the tone of coach Harry Fogleman’s preview of the upcoming Southern Conference tennis tournament. “I really don't think we have any kind of shot at winning,” Fogleman said frankly. “We won't have any of our players seeded among the top entries. As a matter of fact, we probably won't have any seeds from Davidson at all. None of our boys really have much chance of getting by their first-round opponent,” Fogleman continued. “Maybe Randy Jones in the third division or Woody Faulk in the first division will have a chance if they draw an easy first match.”

Despite their coach's lack of confidence, the Davidson netters will score in the tourney, for VMI will be in the midst of their exam schedule and will be unable to compete. Their absence will severely complicate the draw, assuring each team of one first-round bye, and giving one team two byes. Since an advancement into the second round is guaranteed, Davidson will at least have some representation in the later stages of the tournament.Scores one point, every team is assured of not being shut out. Fogleman, using the record of each conference school against conference foes this year, predicted that Furman would dethrone Davidson. "Based on their win over The Citadel earlier in the year, Furman would have to rate as the favorite," he said. "However, the Paladins won by only 5-4, so they are not a runaway pick. George Washington will be a close third after Furman and The Citadel. William and Mary, Davidson, East Carolina, and Richmond will follow in that order."

Fogleman picked Howard Hunt of Furman as the probable favorite to take the honors in the top division. Charleston, S.C., will host the conference tournament on May 8-10. The winning team will qualify to compete for national honors in the NCAA tourney to be held later in the month. Davidson will be one of two teams which is not subsidized competing in the tourney, the other school being Richmond. "Seventy-five per cent of the schools we had scheduled this spring were subsidized," Fogleman pointed out.

Before the trip to Charleston, the tennis team has two matches, both against tough, non-conference opponents. Tomorrow, the netters will meet North Carolina State, while on Tuesday the netters face another Big Four foe in Wake Forest.

The Davidsonian May 2, 1969 Page Five

Unbeatens Lose In IMAC Play
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

This week again proved to be a week of upsets in IMAC softball competition as three more teams fell from the ranks of the undefeated, and the preseason favorites, the Kappa Sigs, lost again. On Tuesday the previously undefeated Phi Delts were beaten by the Sigma Nus, 5-4, as the Nus scored three runs in the bottom of the seventh inning. Dale Vash scored the winning run. Coach Clark Nickerson attributed the win to good defense. Also on Tuesday, the Betas upset the Kappa Sigs, 9-5, and the Pikas beat the ATO’s, 12-11, for the Tau's first loss. The Betas won their game with a seven-run outburst in the fifth inning, which gave them a 9-3 lead after trailing 3-2. Hunter Rice was four for four. The Pikas beat the ATO’s when Mike Sherrill scored from second base on a single by Mark Affeldt in the bottom of the ninth inning. The Pikas had earlier tied the game in the bottom of the sixth with a five-run rally highlighted by Jack Ballenger’s two-run triple.

The Sig Eps lost their first game of the season on Wednesday to the ATO's, 4-2. John Taylor pitched a four-hitter for the Taus, and received all the scoring he needed when the Taus scored three unearned runs in the third inning. The Sigma Chis remain as the only undefeated team after victories over the Independents, 18-1, and the SAE’s, 14-3. Ron Stelzer had four hits, one a home run, and Bill Horton and Herb Clegg added four hits apiece in the victory over the Independents. In the SAE game, Clegg pounded five hits, while Stelzer and Jerry Kroll added four each.

In other games this week, the Sig Eps defeated the Sigma Nus, 14-8, and the Independents, 23-3. In the Nu game, the SPEs came from an 8-5 deficit after five innings to gain their final margin of victory. They had an easier time with the Indies, with a 23-0 lead going into the bottom of the last inning. The Sigma Nus won their second game of the week, as they edged the Phi Gamms, 13-12, with a run in the last of the seventh inning. Keith Sykes was the hero, as he drove in the winning run and saved a run in the Gamm’s half of the seventh with a fine play at the plate on Wilbur Davis, who was trying to score from second on a single. In another Wednesday game, the Independents whipped the Betas, 19-13, after trailing 12-10. Fine defensive plays by Ray English and Bill Funderburk highlighted the Indies’ first win. Beta John Baker said after the game, "We lost due to too many people on the bench. We don’t know what to do with a full team."

The Phi Gamms beat the Pi Kapps, 13-7, behind the hitting of Ken Prestwich. The SAE's forfeited to the Phi Delts. The Machis extended their win streak yesterday by beating the Nus 18-7. Stelzer and Kroll once again led the powerful Machi hitting attack. The Kappa Sigs got back into the winning groove by defeating the winless Pi Kapps 18-8, while the Delts walloped the KAs by 22-8. The Sig Eps retaliated after the ATO loss, taking their vengeance out on the SAE’s, 30-1. Everyone on the Sig Ep team got at least one hit, compared to only three hits for the SAE’s. A 10-run barrage in the top of the seventh inning highlighted the Sig Ep attack.

"You wreck’em — We fix’em"
MOORESVILLE Body Shop
131 East Moore Ave.
Mooresville, N.C.
Telephone 664-3345
Quality work at no extra cost

IN A HURRY? ... discover the "quick-as-a-wink" economy to be experienced at the Vend-A-Wash
S. MAIN - DAVIDSON
... here it is! The do-it-yourself, do-it-right answer to cleaner car fans. And simple as sprinkling a pot plant. Sparkling pressurized water and detergent does the job ... and you direct the whole operation with a magic wand. No splash or splatter! Controlled, concentrated spray lets you cut away that grease and grime in only minutes. And there's a handy lint-free towel dispenser ... and a heavy-duty vacuum for those final touches. Fast, economical, thorough!
COIN - OPERATED - SELF SERVICE CAR WASH
25¢ Minutes For Only