A weekly college newspaper must try to balance the interests of students with standards of professional journalism. This report explores those conflicts and triumphs which go into the making of The Davidsonian.

Bob Kirby is the print shop’s full-time linotype operator. He's responsible for whatever is right about newspaper copy and, we'd like to think, for whatever's wrong with it. Managing Editor John McLean points out corrections to be reset.

By JOHN McLEAN Managing Editor

It used to be “The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students.” But if you looked closely at the logotype at the top of last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, you would have seen that it is now “The Newspaper Of Davidson College Students.” That epithet is only the most recent stage in the curious odyssey of the DAVIDSONIAN tradition. The changes in the motto have paralleled changes in the editorship, the college, and even in the times. At one time they tried to call it “The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson,” but the town objected. So they changed it to “The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College.” But after a couple of issues, the college administration was up in arms, and the motto had to be changed again. They finally arrived at “The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body.” And so it stayed for many years.

Not that anyone pays much attention to the motto. But at least one glaring error was picked up by a loyal DAVIDSONIAN reader or two. Whether by plan or by accident, one fine morning THE DAVIDSONIAN hit the dorms bearing the masthead: “The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Stud.” That one still hangs over the news desk in the DAVIDSONIAN office. It has been there longer than anyone connected with the paper, and will likely remain long after.

Since those days, however, the masthead has omitted all pretense of being the “news and editorial voice” of anyone—except the editors. Franklin Anderson, present coeditor-in-chief, explains that although students “feel in a special way that it is their newspaper” and theirs to control, a newspaper cannot be the voice of anyone but itself. Students do have “control” of the paper in that as much as they elect its editor each year, but, Anderson says, the paper would be denying its purpose if it sought to protect one group or another named in the masthead.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, in its 58th year, represents one of the longest unbroken traditions of any institution on campus. That fact, and the fact that it is thus regarded by off-campus readers as somehow being the canon record of all campus affairs, imposes a unique responsibility on newspaper staffers. THE DAVIDSONIAN is probably the “best signal for the Trustees,” says Anderson, “of what students are thinking and doing.” It is nevertheless a fact—indeed somewhat of a tradition—that THE DAVIDSONIAN disagrees with, and even flaunts, student opinion in its editorial stands. This is a particular source of tension, for, as Anderson says, DAVIDSONIAN readers feel that the newspaper is theirs, and they tend to take what is printed in it in a personal way. “We realize that we step on people sometimes,” Dunham explained, “but that is sometimes unavoidable and also unintentional.” The paper tries not to hit individuals who are making constructive efforts. But we do attack policies which are unfair, wrong, or incompatible with the purposes of the college.

THE DAVIDSONIAN tries to live up to professional standards, modified, of course, by the fact that students print it. “That is to say,” Anderson explained, “that there are certain minimum standards below which we will not fall, and we will stay up till five in the morning if necessary.” Anderson pointed out that one of the main obstacles to the goal of professionalism is lack of cooperation by the sources of stories. “People are afraid of what we’ll print,” Anderson said, and instead of telling the whole story they sometimes hold back information.” This makes the reporter suspicious or even hostile to his source, a condition which leads to greater unreliability in the news reporting.

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits—and gets—criticism of itself in letters to the editor. “We work to correct the errors pointed out,” Dunham said. But he went on to say that much criticism exaggerates the faults of the newspaper to the extent that the critic misses the paper's good points. “Sometimes after the paper has come out, I’m more disappointed than anyone else on campus,” Dunham said. Many deviations from the professional standards we have chosen come because there is a large turnover in staff, and reporters cannot, obviously, spend all their time reporting. It is in pursuit of these ideals and in spite of personal animosities that inevitably develop that those who work on THE DAVIDSONIAN find both their greatest disappointments and their greatest rewards.

Reporters’ Travails Retold

By PAUL ROWLAND Associate Editor

“You're a lousy reporter.” Somewhat sheepishly, I replied, “Huh?” The subject of my interview repeated, “I said you are a lousy reporter.” That was the beginning of my DAVIDSONIAN career. My first interview was a failure. My subject's surprising opening remarks upset me so much that the story was never written, much less published. It was the beginning of The Agony and The Agony. Not every DAVIDSONIAN reporter has such a dismal beginning, but sooner or later we all develop a terrible complex.

The first stage of the complex varies from person to person, but is characterized by an attack (usually verbal) on the young, innocent freshman who was foolish enough to volunteer to write on assigned topics with neither monetary nor ego-reward compensation. As I have indicated, my own first stage was extraordinarily traumatic. For most reporters, the first stage is simply the disappointment of non-appreciation. Occasionally people mention the freshman's first byline but it comes in the same sort of tone you use when you say, “Hmmm. I see you have a wart.” At any rate, the first stage consists of the freshman reporter's first doubts about the worth of his efforts at journalism.

The second stage of the DAVIDSONIAN reporter complex is his first encounter with the editors. You are told either “This lead is weak” or “I don’t think this is quite what we want.” The reporter’s reaction, naturally, is to grab a dictionary to determine the meaning of this extremely professional-sounding journalistic jargon. As Cool Hand Luke once said, “What we have here is a failure to communicate.” Usually the story gets rewritten several times and everybody is relatively satisfied—not with the story, but with their feeling that they were right in the first place.

The intermediate phase between the second and third stages comes as the next Sunday night rolls around and that delightful white card inscribed with your next assignment wafts its way to your cell. I mean, room. This phase involves considerable soul searching and critical self-evaluation to decide upon a course of action. The problem is to devise a plan which will allow you to find your subject in his office, room or gym, ask good questions of your subject, type it all out in a coherent form—all before the deadline, Tuesday night.

The editors demand story after story.

THE SOURCE OF ALL THAT IS TRUE THE DAVIDSONIAN staff.Probably the greatest gathering of prose artists in the Southeast meets for rounds of copy reading and championship layout in the “Tuesday and Wednesday night ordeals.” Story after story, week after week, as Humanities reading assignments pile up. Meanwhile, such trivial things are put off until later or never. Near reviews, themes, and exams, the third stage of the complex is reached: “How can I possibly get everything done?” Either the reporter drops his title of ‘staff writer,’ he flunks out, or, by a miracle, he gets everything done and satisfies editors, professors, parents, and everyone—but himself.

The fourth stage of the reporter complex is its resolution. But this resolution may be accomplished only one way. The reporter must come to realize his role as “Suffering Servant.” The reporter must retain his sensitivity to issues. He cannot afford to grow callous if he is to be a good journalist. Thus, he must become the Suffering Servant in a sense more profound than the Religion Department ever knew. The reporter, now matured by the resolution of his complex, must still grow as he is continuously taught by experience of the implications of the Suffering Servant role.

The Suff-ah-reporter is often subject to vicious criticism. “I think you people ought to have a little more responsibility,” a professor told me on the phone. For writing about students arrested on marijuana charges, he called me and my editor “callous, immoral, irresponsible.” Robbie Hooker, then editor, shrugged and said, “We operate on certain principles, and some people just don’t share those principles.” (Since that time, the professor has withdrawn his charges, but they illustrate the conflicts that arise.)

In addition to bearing the burden of attacks on his own reporting, the reporter is often condemned by way of guilt by association (see the first paragraph of Dr. Alan B. Brinkley’s letter, April 25 issue). When the editorial or feature pages run something on a controversial issue, the reporter is assailed for that with which he had nothing to do. The Daylight Savings Time fiasco resulted in more ribbing than my Queens computer date.

Another problem for the reporter is the search for meaning—not in the universe, but just in Davidson. “We are interested that you are interested that we are interested in the matter,” is a typical response from some of the Powers That Be. “No comment,” is the response of others. There are plenty of questions, but no one seems to have the answers; or if they do, they won’t give them to you.

Why does anyone bother with such an unsatisfying activity? In the first place, it is not always unsatisfying. Despite bruises earned in the process, it is satisfying to dig into a particular subject and to publish one’s findings. Perhaps a masochistic tendency leads one to reporting. Nevertheless, first-rate reporting is the prerequisite of a first-rate newspaper. I do not mean to suggest that THE DAVIDSONIAN is always deserving of that status, but its reporters try.

WHERE THE WORK GETS DONE
Wallace Twombly. Without Wally, THE DAVIDSONIAN would not come out each week. With 24 years of experience on THE DAVIDSONIAN and “The Mecklenburg Gazette,” he directs the print shop ordeal on Thursday afternoons and, inevitably, nights. (Staff Photos by Davidson.)

Old Editors Never Die...
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Former Editor-in-Chief

Criticized, scorned, or, worse, ignored during their college careers, most DAVIDSONIAN editors have gone on to cut a rather impressive swath in life. Teachers, doctors, journalists, businessmen—that is what has become of most editors. Eleven of them have even wound up in “Who’s Who,” more than twice the number (five) of student body presidents who have made it.

When THE DAVIDSONIAN first appeared on April 1, 1914, it was with the resolution to “lead, not lag. It (the paper) should mould, not be moulded by the sway of campus opinion. It should stand for the best things in every line. This may necessitate occasionally a firm but kind criticism.” And ever since then, editors have been doing just that. More or less.

Most of the editors are still writing. When Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the college library, wrote recently to all of them with a request for money to have the paper put on microfilm, he received checks—and comments—from some two dozen. He also apparently set some of the old editors to reminiscing—and joking.

“I well remember the day when we talked about plans for the paper in old No. 7 Rumple (located on the site of the present Little Dormitory),” one of the first editors wrote. Said an editor of the ‘20s, who sent along a generous check: “I surely would hate to think of those precious words of wisdom I wrote way back there not being preserved.” And again: “When I think of the superb quality of the prose of the mid-fifties, it is obvious it should never be lost to history!”

And finally: “In my opinion, the preservation of these less than immortal creations of immature minds would be useful only for the writers of ‘Laugh-In.’ I long ago came to the conclusion that, using present-day college admission standards, I would be turned down by Slippery Rock Teachers College and would be accepted only by East Jefferson County Community College (on probation). The ringing and vivid editorials urging students to keep off of the grass or to preserve the columns of Old Chambers should probably be interred along with the rest of us.”

One former editor had some brickbats for his more recent predecessors. “It might be just as well if the issues of the past 10 years were lost forever,” he said. But one of those same editors saw it differently. Said he, “Twenty years from now friends, alumni, and students will look back and realize that those wild young hellions were right after all.”

Not many DAVIDSONIAN editors have stayed in the writing line. James K. Batten (1956-57 editor) is now with the Washington bureau of the Knight Newspapers, and Aubrey N. Brown Jr. ('28-'29) is editor of “Presbyterian Outlook”—but they seem to be the exception. Most, in fact, have turned to academic or medical careers. A number are teaching and sport MD’s. A few are in business—Boyce F. Martin (’27-’28), for example, is president of a cement company—and one, the most famous of all, actually got the chance to do what all DAVIDSONIAN editors try to do: run the college. That is probably why the staff has named its annual award for the best freshman reporter in honor of D. Grier Martin (’41-’42), college president from 1958 to last year.

The activities of recent DAVIDSONIAN editors are varied. Ervin Duggan (’60-’61), for example, was actually only an associate editor, but his contributions to the editorial column led one reader to complain in a letter to the editor that the paper had halitosis. Apparently, Duggan's knack for solemn (some would say ridiculous) pronouncements helped him land a job as a speechwriter for Lyndon B. Johnson while he was in the White House.

John Todd (’65-’66) is still preaching—but from behind a pulpit instead of the editor’s desk. He served a church in Wilmington this year and returns in the fall to seminary. Louis Lesesne (’66-’67), noted in his year for rousing the ire of athletes and fraternities, will shortly be contending with the Viet Cong—hopefully with a Navy administrative desk between him and them. Sam Boyte ('67-’68), meanwhile, will shortly have to come out from behind the security of the Union desk and don the olive drab as a lieutenant in the Signal Corps. He has been assistant director of the College Union this year. And Charlie Dibble (’64-’65)? Well, the last time anybody saw Charlie was in Tehran, Iran—a stopover as he circles the globe, a pack on his back, writing newspaper dispatches.