Senior Lineup Set for Opening Game - By ERNIE SHIPE Sports Writer

Three years ago, five freshmen basketballers went undefeated. Two consecutive seasons saw Doug Cook, Mike Maloy, and Jerry Kroll in
starring and starting roles. The two guards from that team spent their sophomore and junior years waiting for an opportunity
to spell Dave Moser and Wayne Huckel. Moser and Huckel have graduated, and it appears the five could be back
together possibly for another undefeated season.

Jan Postma and Fox DeMoisey could join their three freshman teammates in the Wildcats' search for the NCAA title, but
the picture is far from being clear as to who are to fill the vacancies left by graduation. "Jan Postma
is definitely a candidate to open the season at wing," related Coach Terry Holland. "He has continued to be one
of our most consistent players in practice." The 6-5 senior from Mariana, Florida, scored at a 17.7 clip his freshman
season.

Presently, there is a battle between DeMoisey and Ron Stelzer for the point position. According to Holland, Stelzer is the
better shooter, but with DeMoisey, the offense has appeared sharper. Stelzer saw quite a bit of action last season, but
Fox apparently has the inside track. The coaches have also been experimenting using Brian Adrian and Postma at the point.
There is no way Adrian can be left out of the picture. The 6-3 sophomore has an amazing variety of
shots and moves. The New Yorker is great in one-on-one situations but is weak on defense. Last season, Adrian set
a freshman scoring record as he averaged 28.6 per outing. He has to be a threat to replace Postma at
wing.

With the Kroll, Cook, Maloy frontline, Davidson has to be ranked among the contenders for the championship. "We definitely have
a shot at the national title," said Holland. "A lot depends on how our other two starters perform at the
beginning of the season."

The Wildcats are also blessed with an abundance of depth. Steve Kirley and Eric Minkin are both regarded highly as
reserves at forward and center. Kirley is a very rugged rebounder, while Minkin averaged 18 points and 14 rebounds per
contest last year on the freshman squad. Lester Strong and Frank Clark complete the frontline reserves, while Doug Hill and
Bill Pierce round out the roster in the backcourt.

A tough schedule lies ahead of the Wildcats with many key games slated for the road. Davidson must travel to
South Carolina, St. John's, St. Joseph's, and Wake Forest. Not to be ignored is a group of much stronger teams
in the Southern Conference. Coach Holland cites East Carolina, George Washington, Richmond, and Furman all as threats to challenge Davidson
for the championship.

The pivotal game in determining the national ranking will be the contest with South Carolina in Columbia on February 11.
The Gamecocks were picked by the ACC coaches as the favorite for the title. USC returns all five starters and
is led by John Roche, who was voted MVP in the Atlantic Coast Conference last year. Joining Roche are John
Ribbock, Bobby Cremins, and Tom Owens. Two outstanding sophomores, Tom Riker and Bobby Carver, join the Gamecocks, who are tabbed
by many as UCLA's successor.

Davidson must also face two of the ACC's top four when they encounter Duke and Wake Forest. Duke is led
by Randy Denton and Dick DiVenzio, while the Deacons counter with Charlie Davis and Gil McGregor, who are all rated
among the ACC’s star performers.

East Carolina, who finished second in the Southern Conference tournament, should prove to be the stiffest competition to the Wildcats
for the title. Jim Modlin, Jim Gregory, and Tom Miller are all listed as potential all-Conference selections. Mike Tallent and
three other starters return for George Washington to place them among the challengers. Two junior college transfers brighten Frank Selvy's
and Furman’s outlook. Richmond, with Picot Frazier and Kenny Foster, can't be overlooked in the title picture either. The Citadel,
VMI, and William & Mary round out the improved Southern Conference.

(Staff photo by Lyle) MAKING PERFECT All-American Mike Maloy practices. The Davidsonian, November 21, 1969, Page Five

Vandy And ‘Dreams’ Last Wildcat Stop - By CON PARMAN Sports Editor

For the second season in a row, the Davidson Wildcats attempt the "impossible dream" as they take on the Commodores
of Vanderbilt in the final regular football game. Last year, it looked impossible for the Wildcats to stay in the
same stadium with the SEC team from Nashville. Then Vandy came into Charlotte, and sure enough, the 'Cats couldn't stay
in the stadium, as the Commodores outclassed them 53-20. That left last year's edition of the Wildcats with a 3-6
overall mark and left the Davidson fans with little hope for this year's rematch in Nashville.

But this year, Homer Smith has had the team on the move. Davidson swept the first five games before losing
a close game at The Citadel. The Wildcats bounced back, something they haven't done too well in the past, and
won their next three games, clinching the Southern Conference championship and a berth in the Tangerine Bowl. Now the 'Cats
have a second chance to bounce back after last week's upset at the hands of the Terriers from Wofford. If
they bounce back, they have a good shot at the "impossible dream" and Vanderbilt.

This year's Vandy team is supposed to be far stronger than last year's with the maturing of a group of
talented sophomores and juniors.

Winless Ruggers Close Season - By KEN JONES Sports Writer

The improvement in Davidson’s rugby team is becoming more and more evident each week. Unfortunately, the only real proof of
this is that the scores aren't as one-sided as they used to be at the beginning of the season. But
to player-coach Zack Mobley, the improvement is being demonstrated in other ways too. "In last week's game, the team played
a lot better than we did at the beginning of the season," commented Mobley. "The backs played extremely well, and
the passing game has improved greatly."

The game that Mobley is commenting on was played against the Atlanta Rugby Club. The game was played here last
Sunday. The Wildcats lost in a closer score, 18-3, than the score indicates. "The Atlanta club is generally considered the
best, or one of the best clubs in the South. It is made up of mostly older men, the median
age of the team was 34. They are very experienced and took a six-game tour of England last summer. The
team isn't considered fast, but they depended upon their skill and kicking to win. However, the Wildcats played one of
their best games of the season against them. The score was tied 3-3 up until the last 12 minutes."

East IV, Cannon III Make Freshman Flickerball Final - By RICK BUSH Sports Writer

The freshman flickerball season moved to a close Tuesday with the semifinal games among the divisional champions.and the runner-ups... In
that semifinal action, East IV won the right to face Cannon III as East defeated Watts II, runners-up in the
“B” Division, by a 13-6 count while Cannon rolled over the “B” Division champs, Watts IV, 27-13.

East IV struck with a touchdown on their first play from scrimmage and then turned the job over to the
defense, which stymied Watts for nearly the entire game. East IV turned in ten interceptions to stop the Watts team
in its tracks. Watts scored on a Vic Fleming to Pat Curley pass at the end of the first half
but was unable to mount another offensive drive in the second half. East scored late in the game on an
18-yard pass from Frank Smith to Steve Wright to conclude the scoring.

Long bombs played a major role in Cannon III's upset over Watts IV. Tailback Dick Halligan hit Bob Lewis for
two long scores and the previously unbeaten Watts IV never recovered. Lewis and Lloyd Moss each gathered in short touchdown
passes for the winners. David Varner, the Watts tailback, attributed the loss to mistakes and dropped passes. “We choked.” The
bright spot for the losers was an outstanding leaping catch by Scott Beard for one of their two scores.

The regular season provided close competition for the four playoff berths as second place in both divisions was decided by
the narrowest of margins. In the “A” Division, East III finished only one game out of second, dropping a squeaker
in the season finale to East IV. “We lost by just one foot,” said captain Larry Duncan. “What would have
been the winning touchdown fell just that far short.” Cannon IV missed the runner-up spot in the “B” Division by
a single game. They played well enough to win their big game with Watts IV but the result was reversed
on a forfeit call when it was discovered that a Cannon player had worn cleats. One of the few teams
to use a two-platoon system, they got consistently good performances from Pete Jorgenson at defensive end and Lynn Wagner as
both a passer and receiver.

Minutes of the game when Atlanta scored their first try. After that, when the ‘Cats couldn't manage to score, Atlanta
finished with two more scores, ending at 18-3. The only time that Davidson scored was on a penalty kick by
Stuart Shelton. Mobley singled out Skelton, Ed Dietrich, Ted Ravenel, and David Branch for their outstanding performances in the game.
Mobley was pleased with the performances of everyone on the team. Since this is Davidson's second rugby season, each game
brings improvements as everyone learns their positions and gets the feel of the game. The team's record so far is
0-5. One game was forfeited to the ‘Cats, but Mobley explains that counting the forfeit as a win would be
misleading. There is only one game left in the season, and that will be played this Sunday in Raleigh. It
will be against N.C. State’s “B” team. Not much is known about the first team, but the team is generally
considered one of the best teams in the Atlantic Coast Conference. It is assumed that the B team will be
strong, but if the ‘Cats continue their improvement, they stand a good chance of winning their first game of the
season.

The memory of the rough beginning that the team faced is fading away as the season is coming to an
end. After a seven-month wait, the team finally got their jerseys, and there is also a chance that in the
future, letters and gym exemptions will be given for rugby. Things seem to be looking up for the team, even
if they don't win a game this season. Mobley is looking forward to a better record and a better season
next spring. “We see our improvement through the spring season and should have a much better team next fall,” says
Mobley.

The team really had no overall strengths or weaknesses. “We were able to substitute and still maintain,” commented Fogleman about
the season. Coach Fogleman praised the performances of juniors Rich Cowart and Mike Taylor at the defensive halfback position along
with the outstanding jobs done by Culbertson, Frank Heiner, and Dickie Allison at offensive halfbacks. Culbertson made 17 goals for
the year to lead the team in scoring. Fogleman also cited sophomore Charlie Heiner, brother of Frank, as being credited
with over 180 saves at the goalie position for the entire season.

The outlook for next year looks bright. The Wildcats only lose Heiner and Patterson at the two wings, Randy Carter
and Bill Horton. Fogleman is counting on Bob Ramsay at wing and John Robinson on the inside, who both had
excellent seasons, to have even better years next fall. He also expects freshman Skip Holcomb, sophomore Robin Gray, and junior
Jack Caldwell to step into vacant positions and do a good job. The Wildcats have been invited to participate in
the Gator Bowl Round Robin Tournament next October in Jacksonville, Fla., along with Rollins, Jacksonville University, and the University of
Miami, but Fogleman has not accepted the offer yet because of money matters. Coach Fogleman closed by saying, “With a
few breaks, we would have produced a winning season. Maybe we will finally put everything together next fall.”

Vanderbilt had 13 starters returning from last year’s 5-4-1 squad. One of the key men in the offense this season
has been sophomore quarterback Watson Brown, who replaced last year's signal caller, junior John Miller. The ‘Cats will be attempting
to rebound after the stunning upset at the hands of Wofford last week. The story of the game from the
Davidson point of view was George Hannen. Hannen proved to be everything except invulnerable. Hannen opened the Davidson scoring by
returning a Wofford punt 94 yards for a new Davidson record. It was the longest return in Wildcat history and
the touchdown set a single-season scoring record. Later in the game, he was knocked out temporarily on another long kick
return. After the final Wofford score, coach Homer Smith could think of no better way to spend the last 22
seconds than to give the ball to Hannen, who almost pulled the game out. Hannen returned the kickoff and went
out of bounds on the first play from scrimmage, an end-around. With seven seconds left, Slade hit Hannen at the
Wofford 20-yard line. During the timeout, Hannen was helped off the field, more groggy from the tackle. Hannen was named
Southern Conference player of the week for his heroic efforts. Speculation now says if a team of Wofford’s caliber could
beat Davidson when Davidson was looking ahead to Vanderbilt, a team of Davidson's caliber can beat Vanderbilt when Vanderbilt is
looking ahead to Tennessee.

WOODY ALLEN’S “TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN” WOODY ALLEN JANET MARGOLIN JACK ROLLINS AND CHARLES H. JOFFE Production. WOODY ALLEN
and MICKEY ROSE / CHARLES H. JOFFE / SOMEY GLATIER / JIM GROSSEERS and HLSCH / WOODY ALLEN / COLOR
/ DISTRIBUTED BY CHERAWA RELEASES CORPORATION

CAPRI THEATRE
