The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO NOVEMBER 21, 1969

Time For Pros

Most Davidson students seem to be tired of serving as the panel in a sort of Social Council Amateur Hour, which no one wins. For this reason, and because of our own indifference to the lineup of concerts slated for this school year, we offer some workable alternative suggestions regarding the present social set-up.

It is conceivable that Davidson has nationally-known entertainment; but no one seems to be doing anything more than griping about it, and in the meantime, some money spent annually on entertainment that fails to raise more than a couple of problems booking $23,000 of student eyebrows. The Council has noted that large groups charge considerably and that to book a big-time group could well deplete the social allotment. But they fail to note that block-booking with area schools reduces the cost considerably. The Council could have pursued that course. A number of students have said that one big name per year would make the “unknown” concerts more bearable; in that suggestion lies another alternative.

The social fee as it now stands is inadequate; but most students seem to indicate that they would not mind paying more for better entertainment. This can be accomplished in two ways: either by a door charge, or by raising the social fee. Of these two, probably the door charge is the better solution. Well-known groups, such as Davidson secured until last year, will draw well, in spite of the price of tickets. If the entertainment is good, students will be willing to pay. It is a wallet-saving tradition to be able to gain admission by the flip of a Davidson I.D., but the practice loses its beauty when one finds himself continually disappointed by the act on the other side of the door.

The performance last weekend was good, but the act was extremely amateurish in its lack of color, dialogue, and polish. The union provides good bands for dances for considerably less; one expects a concert in the full sense of the word from the Social Council performers. Council Chairman Bill Traxler is certainly correct in his statement that the council will be unable to please all the people all the time; but at the same time, it is important to note that it is his job to please most of the people, and most students are currently dissatisfied. We feel that most students would be willing to cooperate with whatever alternative social programs the council comes up with, but it seems clear that some change is needed.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Green Says Paper Missed Good Show

To the Editor:

Hi, Ed. I've been wondering if you happened to see the college production of “Don't Drink the Water" a couple of weeks ago. What'd you think? Like it? Seriously — I know THE DAVIDSONIAN runs short of room and you have to decide what to write about and what to forget... And I realize that neglection probably tops the list of your all-time favorite reader gripes. So Ed., in lieu of some kind of coverage, maybe you'll consent to running my own personal one-sentence combination review/thanks. I mean, when something good happens around here, we like to stick a note in the paper so the alumni will flash proud smiles and our mothers will have something to cut out and save, right?

The One Sentence: I'd like a

Superdorms Criticized; Religious Links Defended

To the Editor:

The Patterns report of the Commission on Social obviously represents a careful, thoughtful study, and contains many good points. The commission recognizes the failure of the college to provide proper housing, permeating arrangements and adequate social outlets, and the failure in fostering separatism.

However, the main emphasis of the report seems to be an attempt to rationalize the college’s failure by condemning the fraternities. Instead of thanking the fraternities for providing the social outlets which the college has failed to provide, this obviously biased commission condemns them for not providing to all what the college has failed to provide to any.

But how has the commission proposed to correct the failures of the college? (1) Recognizing the separatism created by fraternities, it proposes to reestablish a total separatism in housing, eating, and partying through their Superdorm concept. (2) Instead of providing the viable alternative which the college has failed to provide, the commission recommends an underhanded destruction of the option that now exists for most of the students, in favor of required group eating, partying, and living based on selection (Selection?) by an impersonalized computer method. (This might be as effective as computerized mixer dates.)

This Superdorm concept represents not only a destruction of students’ option, but a destruction of their individualism in an attempt to provide greater control over a student's activities and goals. “Residence hall loyalties are more easily mobilized than are fraternity loyalties, because the source of existence of the residence halls is within the college.” Even this dangerous attempt to destroy individualism is denying options to students and in setting goals for them is based on the vague idea of the purpose of Davidson, and not on substantive or even practical arguments. That the college will provide a better social life than fraternities do is not shown, only that whatever the college will provide will be provided for all.

It must be noticed here that this ominous desire to control students’ decisions for them is a basis of the conclusions drawn by the commission in that student opinion on the subject was ignored. The students weren't even polled on how they felt for that would mean that students would be helping to make a difficult policy decision that should be made by faculty, administration, and trustees.

Tom Wheatly ‘70

Davidson College Church Relations

To the Editor:

Two weeks ago THE DAVIDSONIAN printed an editorial concerning the Spencer Commission on Church Relationship. I offer the following points in an effort to correct the inaccuracies of the editorial.

1. I do not feel that our report was apologetic (in the sense of expressing regret for something in the past). We explored the past in order to understand the present. It is important that one distinguish between this exploration of the past and our recommendations for the future. The editors obviously failed to do this. There seemed to be a prevalent feeling within the college community last year that there were “just too many damn ministers on the Board.” In the Commission’s attempt to discover whether the number of ministers had anything to do with the decisions of the Board of Trustees, the subcommittee on church relations made an exhaustive search of the minutes of most of the Trustee meetings since the college's founding. As could be expected, the statement about ministers being detrimental to the Board proved a classic example of rhetorical “overkill.”

In our case, the perspective we gained from our exploration of the past enabled us to be very positive about our explorations for the future. To quote the report: “Our people... designed to show what we believe to be desirable means of conserving the values inherent in wholesome church-college relations—values that will be lost if the college separates from the church—values that will be jeopardized if the relationship is less than wholesome.” We accepted the church relationship as a working hypothesis only after lengthy debate, as there were at least two members of the commission who felt that Davidson should not continue as a church-related school.

3. Our argument for the continuance of the church relationship did not rest on the “concept of the church's parenthood over the college and of the college's grateful child image.” One cannot deny the fact that until recently, Davidson, as well as most of the colleges in the U.S., operated under the theory of ‘in loco parentis.” But to imply as your editorial does, that our recognition of the fact is the same as our using this principle as a basis for our recommendations is a gross misreading of the report.

4. There is no suggestion anywhere in the Subcommittee’s Program report, that “any act of service or goodwill by students shows support of the church.” We merely stated that the local churches and the Christian organizations on campus provide many vehicles through which acts of service may be accomplished. Use of these vehicles is not synonymous to support of the organization which provides them. Nor is the subcommittee vain enough to assume that service could not be initiated by these vehicles.

5. Your statement “questionnaires are invalid unless percentages or numbers responding are indicated,” is quite true. Unfortunately, it does not apply to the research of our commission.

6. When the editorial finally gets around to acknowledging the good portions of our report, it fails to mention our most important and far-reaching recommendation: the re-shaping of the Board of Trustees. By implementing this recommendation Davidson could takea giant step toward a future of continued excellence.

7. Finally, it must be mentioned that the Commission Reports were not meant to be placed against the ideal, but were meant to be used as resource materials by Dr. Spencer, so that he could better know how to move Davidson College into the future.

Tom Norwood ‘70
Davidson College

To thank Mr. Barber and the rest of the cast for putting together what I thought was a pretty fair dollar's worth of entertainment. Of course, I'm speaking while in a wildly biased state of mind, but to tell the truth, I'm loving every minute of it. Tell you what — see if you can dig up someone on the staff who saw the show (preferably someone as fanatically prejudiced as me about the result) and make my week complete by running one of those classy little Ed. Notes saying “Yep," or anything comparably encouraging.

Thanks,
Bill Green '72
Davidson College

ED. NOTE: Very seldom does THE DAVIDSONIAN review a production which is a week old. Reviews are usually given to plays, etc. which readers will be able to see after reading the review.

To the Editor:

“Open Them Up or Shut Them Down: the schools must serve the people.” This is one of the less inflammatory bits of sloganry to be found in one of the pamphlets printed by the Atlanta Revolutionary Youth Movements—SDS. “JOIN US" the second page implores, and to the chagrin of Davidson College, some members of our elite student body find this invitation not altogether ridiculous.

Klonsky, though very able in pointing out the evils of today’s society, failed to offer one constructive alternative to the present economic, educational, and political systems. When asked specifically to do so, he only evaded questions in a most artless manner. When requested to give proof of the charge he had made, he and his flunkies resorted to making personal verbal attacks upon the questioners. One of Klonsky’s entourage, who constantly scanned the room as if searching for an assassin in this hotbed of violence, even accused a prominent member of Davidson’s College Bowl team of being “intellectually arrogant;" the accused certainly had some justification for so feeling, if this charge were true.

Indeed, the intellectual reasoning of Klonsky’s arguments would have made the average high school sophomore feel “arrogant.” As was pointed out at the meeting, the use of the intellect is not only irrelevant, it is, in fact, one of the greatest hang-ups in our society today. Formal education and intellectualism are just two examples of the tools used by the upper middle-class to perpetuate its hold on the rest of society. Klonsky even proved how unnecessary intellectual ability is; I found his presentation to be highly educational yet the most intellectually barren of my irrelevant college experiences. And thus as he made a plea for money to help pay his legal fees, I found a bag of potato chips more deserving of my contribution.

William G. Cockrill '70
Davidson College

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that week. All letters must be typed and double-spaced. We reserve the right to edit letters over 250 words in length.

God Bless You Too, Spiro

The purpose of this column is to heap scorn on the head of likeable, lovable Ted Agnew, a man who is rapidly becoming a household favorite in American government and politics. This is hardly a new idea, as much scorn has been thrown his way recently, and deservedly so. Ted, as he was known earlier in his brief political career when he was trying to avoid an ethnic label, started out in local politics around Baltimore with just one campaign slogan: “Ted Agnew — he’s your kind of man.” Apparently voters thought this was true. By continual diligent blundering, his star has risen in the Nixon administration, which shows what sort of benighted heaven it must be.

Spiro Ted has the cardinal virtue of being blunt and direct, which should be refreshing in this age of political doubletalk, but unfortunately he is only blunt and direct on a few limited subjects, mainly those he knows nothing about, or those which aren’t important. Subjects like television—although he does have the air of a man who watches a lot of television, mostly old westerns—and hippies, ghettoes, etc. He manages to say next to nothing about national policy, possibly because he knows next to nothing about it. He has one function in the administration—verbally bludgeoning the opposition. Perhaps worst of all, many Republicans seem to like him.

Imagine, if you will, that Spiro dutifully serves Nixon for eight years, then runs for president on his own, and horror of horrors, is elected. Perhaps his inaugural address would go something like this:

“Eight years ago when I took office as Vice-President no one would listen to me. I was a voice crying in the wilderness, spurned by those deluded minions of the left wing who controlled the media and the students.

“Yes, there was a left-wing conspiracy against me, and against President Nixon. But I am glad to say we have conquered it.

“Tonight no newscasters will carry opposition to my speech, not any more. Now that the news media has been brought under control of this great government of ours, the liberty of our country is assured.

“And there are no effete hippie protesters marching out there to oppose us today. Under General Mitchell, our policy of firmness and law and order has eliminated that menace of the left-wing conspiracy.

“Now that J. Edgar Hoover has put some backbone in our foreign policy from his post as Secretary of State, and General Hershey as Commissioner of Education has knocked some sense into those kids, our country is more safe and secure than it has ever been.

“And having silenced all opposition, we now have a silent America.”

To Evaluate Rock Music
By A. D. TRICE

I sat down and wrote a little scholarly deal about the criteria for evaluating rock music, but then I realized that dead prose is offensive to Rock Music in particular, and generally to any art form, so I tore it up, deciding to sit down again and try to express the reasons I feel Rock music is the most important artistic experience of the sixties.

Rock has three elements: lyrics, music, and performance, and since I consider the lyrics the most important element, I see Rock Music as a literary movement, reverting back to the Classical idea of music and poetry being inseparable. The music is not as important because very little new ground, except in instrumentation, has been explored. Hendrix, for all his insanity, is playing music that is pre-Mozart in its structure. Spencer Dryden is about the only Rock musician I can think of who is making music that is late Twentieth Century. These are exceptions, I know, but I dare you to find me a tune that is not strictly diatonic in the whole range of rock music. (OK, there’s a raga or two, but not a far-out raga.)

This is not meant to degrade the music. It is to mean that the music is there for support of the lyrics. A lot of the success or failure of a song depends on the fit of lyrics and words. Does this imply that Bubble Gum Music is a success? (Both the lyrics and music are trite and silly.) No, of course. I could (maybe) write a perfect novel that would be bad by any standards except those of form criticism. But I think this means that “The House at Pooneil Corners” is better than “Crystal Blue Persuasion.” Pooneil is a frightening song, both poetically (Someone stood at a window & cried/ One tear I thought that should stop the war/ but someone is killing me.) and the music is loud, irregular, dissonant.

Talking about Pooneil leads me to a digression: Aristotle gave us some criteria for judging art; it’s supposed to heighten emotions (specifically fear and pity). If it doesn't heighten those too many people get upset. But he was talking about tragic drama. Why shouldn't Rock Poetry heighten love (or to be crude, heighten the sexual drive)? Why shouldn't it make us hate hatred? Why can't it make us laugh?

Laughter and love seem to threaten a great number of people today. Well, the plain fact of it is that rock music doesn’t give a damn usually about pleasant little things that you can easily forget about when the record cuts off. It’s art of involvement. It is much more literal about a purge, because many of its artists think that people are pretty full of something. It is revolutionary — too. (Tear down the walls, motherf—s, says the Jefferson Airplane.) It’s created anthems and hymns (“A Day in the Life,” “Give Peace a Chance," “We Can Be Together,” “Volunteers of America.”)

There are two kinds of performers: artists and images. Laura Nyro and Grace Slick belong to the first category, and Jagger and Morrison belong to the other, and in groups The Beatles and the Who belong to the first and The Mothers and the 1910 Fruitgum Company to the second; (I would have said Fugs, but can I say that in a paper?) Like it or not, all of Rock is influenced by soul. The performer gets up and projects himself, and at its best, he’s projecting his own material. Sometimes there is not much there to project, so he pulls down his pants in public and everybody says, OK, that’s cool, he must be sexy, and so his music becomes sexy. Sometimes there is a lot there. Grace Slick can entice you, enrage you, scare you, because she is sincere. Judy Collins can sing a song about her father or her first love, and you know the way she must have felt when they were gone. Aretha can give you as many clues about being black as Cleaver when she is at her best. (OK, I'm in dangerous country.)

The performer in Rock is almost as important as the material. Nilsson’s songs are entirely different when someone else sings them. (And what could the CCR do to “Hey, Jude”?)