Che Dautdasontan EE SPECIAL EDITION DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1969 SPECIAL EDITION CLEARANCE CONTINUED AROUND
OLD EDITIONS TEXTS AND PAPERBACKS PRICED AS MARKED -_ - — — “BUT SANDY .. .” |. , just because
Tillich didn’t write it is no reason fo... .” However, it wasn’t Sandy McKelway who got the Bible discontinued. The
most credible rumor to date (and it isn’t so likely, either) was that the student store got wind of what's
coming out in the Church Commission’s report, and decided to unload early (Staff Photo by Davidson). | EPC Sends Faculty
Limited ExCo Plan The faculty Educational Policy Committee made major changes in the student proposal for a pilot Experimental College
project at their meeting Monday, according to Danny Clodfelter, freshman Richardson Fellow who led the drive for the experimental college.
“We feel that the EPC in practice has put so many restrictions on our proposal that they've killed the program,”
Clodfelter said. “Nobody now wants to carry through the program, although several students formerly had proposals.” Dr. James M. Fredericksen,
professor of chemistry and a member of the committee, pointed out that getting the proposals through the faculty next Thursday
would require a more structured set-up than the students originally proposed. “Our idea," said Clodfelter, “was for the college to
take some risks on some highly motivated students. I think they've simply failed to catch the idea of what we
were trying to get across.” Cooks Receive More Benefits By GREG MITCHELL Staff Writer Fraternity representatives voted to adopt a
medical insurance program for their cooks, to provide a minimum sick leave program, and to continue the present policy of
paying the cooks for holidays during the school year, at a conference on the cook's wages question Monday. The move
came in accordance with the Student Life Committee's recent recommendation that Davidson fraternities work directly with the college administration in
an effort to find a solution to the problem. “I felt that the meeting was extremely successful,” said Robert J.
Stephenson, assistant business manager for the college, “and the response from the individual fraternities has been very favorable.” The fraternity
representatives at the meeting also decided to carry the problem of a specific wage increase back to their respective houses
where members would then vote on the matter. Several of the representatives indicated that their fraternities had already decided to
increase the weekly salaries of their cooks. Road Outlaw Moves Into Athletics Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science
at Davidson since 1964, will become athletics business manager for the college August 15, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said
this week. Clodfelter added that his group would have accepted some restrictions, but that he felt the EPC had gone
too far. The added restrictions included provision that applicants would not be excused from area, major and graduation requirements, that
maximum credit would be three courses, and that no rising sophomore would beHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

admitted to the program unless he had already passed at least two area exams. Also, a participant would have to
pay full Davidson tuition, room, and board fees whether or not his program took him away from the campus. John
F. Williams, the student member of the EPC, said that the restriction requiring freshmen to pass two area exams before
entering the program was for the benefit of the student. “We felt this would be an advantage for the sophomores
in that if they got too tied up in this project, they might fall behind in their preparation for the
other area exams and be unable to become juniors,” Williams said. Fredericksen said that he felt that a student might
become caught up in his project and thus tend to negate the broad education which was the spirit of the
Blue Sky proposals. Clodfelter and Fredericksen (See EPC, Page 2)

Code And Cheerleader Elections End Today

By FRED WILSON Asst. Managing Editor

Twelve revisions in the Code of Responsibility and senior cheerleaders will be voted on today in the final round of
student elections. The proposed changes in the Code of Responsibility would clarify the academic responsibility section and create a new
Court of Appeals consisting of three faculty and three student members. Other additions would revise the composition of the Investigating
Committee and specify the conditions under which student rooms and cars may be searched. If approved by the students, the
faculty will vote on the revisions next Thursday. Seniors are electing three cheerleaders to complete the squad for next year.
Charlie Brown, Jimmy Crouse, and Jack Trotter were elected last Friday by the rising juniors and Bill Lear, Sidney Moody,
and Bill Powell by the rising sophomores.

JOHNSTON EPC chairman

SLC Backs At 7 Of 10 New Rules

Phi Delta Theta and Phi Gamma Delta received permission from the faculty Student Life Committee yesterday to allow housemothers to
reside off the fraternity court, said Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr. this morning. The SLC also returned to
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. recommendations on the administrative regulations by the Dean's Council. Out of the 10 points in
the regulations, Burts said the SLC approved only three. Burts said there could be some doubt about whether the SLC's
action on housemothers was final since the committee was not sure who had the authority to make the decision. But
he said the decisions did not represent a “policy change” on the part of the committee, but rather a trial
period for the residency. Yesterday's committee decision represented a reversal of a decision a week earlier when the committee in
a tie vote decided not to permit the arrangement. Burts said that further investigation by Dick Allison, a student member
of the committee, had produced the changed vote of yesterday. Recommendations on the Dean's Council report were returned to Spencer,
who must make the final decision. Burts emphasized that the comments were not decisive, but represented only “the feeling of
the committee to Dr. Spencer.”

---
