The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON, Editors-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. Address correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969

Rewards Of Time

The overused and overrated cliché of the “credibility gap” this week received three big pushes out of the conversation of Davidson students and faculty, largely due to the efforts of three different individuals or groups. That “gap,” created by persons charging inefficiency and lack of action on both sides of the academic fence, has now been at least partially destroyed.

Step number one in the gap destruction was taken by the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid, when it finalized its report on cars and scholarships with a very liberal and acceptable proposal. Although the report as presented is a bit complicated, perhaps necessitating a new position of Dean of Cars to iron out all the details, it is still most satisfactory, and certainly it is better than anyone would have expected several weeks before. The time needed for the committee was greater than anticipated, but the final report made the extra time worth enduring.

The second bridge this week was built by junior Dave Sweatt, in the creation of his Symposium on Environmental Problems. Sweatt accomplished with a mere $20 one of the best programs the school has witnessed in recent years, and he did it by tapping the wealth and resources of the college, the faculty members themselves. The results of Sweatt’s efforts to organize the symposium were seen in the sizeable crowds in attendance, in the dialogue between disagreeing professors, and in the open exchange of ideas on the pollution problem by everyone present during the three-day session.

The final step in aiding the credibility of students and faculty was taken this week by the IFC Judicial Board, when it issued its statement on hazing. In truth, the board was working on some violations prior to the Student Life Committee’s resolution on fraternity hazing several weeks ago. But this week's report represents the result of a full week of hearings and investigations into alleged Greek Week activities, and shows a willingness to cooperate on the board’s part. The final statement may not be acceptable to all parties involved, but it has brightened the IFC’s complexion as far as a number of faculty members are concerned.

In all three cases the rewards of a long, tedious period of study and preparation have been realized to a large degree, and the efforts deserve considerable applause.

Better Late Than Never?

The campus delivery system is getting so unreliable that one is scared to use it anymore. Letters from the president's office have arrived as much as a week after deposit in the system. A letter from the dean of faculty notifying students of a meeting this week arrived after the meeting. Such service is inexcusable. If a mail system is worth having, it should be reliable. But on the other hand, the system is itself a good idea. For that reason, we would like to suggest twice-daily pickups and deliveries to all dorms and campus buildings. Also, when the dorms are remodeled this summer, one addition could be pigeonholes on each hall for delivery of campus mail and notes, which now get left on the floor by the door, where a janitor may sweep them into the trash or where the wind may blow them away. The system is a good idea and needs extension. But until it is reliable, it is worthless.

Home Rule

In the process of discussing possible changes at Davidson, two ideas have come up concerning college government which we think deserve serious consideration if not outright adoption. One is a revised composition for the Board of Trustees, the other a suggestion for a college council.

The board presently consists of 37 churchmen elected by the presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida and 14 alumni chosen by the Alumni Association. It would seem more logical for the governing body of an educational institution to consist also of educators and of recent graduates who have more of a feel for the institution, in addition to the alumni and churchmen who now make up the board. Furthermore, the churchmen should be chosen by synods rather than presbyteries, and by synods of both the Southern Presbyterians and United Presbyterians, to add diversity and ecumenicity. (For a definite illustration, see box.)

The college council is also needed to make the governing of the day-to-day affairs more representative of the community and to assure a voice for all parts of the college. Accordingly, it should consist of students, faculty, administrators, and trustees. Students should be chosen by residence halls, since this has proved during the past year to be the most direct and meaningful mode of representation on the student Senate. Faculty members should be elected both by divisions and at large, so that all segments of the faculty would receive representation. And for liaison with the trustees, several trustees should be on the council. (See box.)

In authority, the college council would govern the college subject only to the trustees, with perhaps one or two areas reserved for the faculty or students. The college council would carry with it several important advantages. First, it would centralize authority. One would know where to go to get action and who had authority to act. Untold hours are now wasted in an administrative run-around that is inexcusable. It is far too difficult to obtain change and reform. Students and faculty are here for education, not for committee meetings. Therefore, the administrative decisions should be easy to obtain, and reform not unduly hard to effect, so that attention stays where it should, on education.

Another advantage would be the permanent opening of channels. Thanks to the national situation on college campuses, and an unusual chain of events beginning with the Self-Study Reports and student efforts, this institution is now less rigid than most, and somewhat open to change. So, before things return to a situation where it is necessary to have another mass movement every time one wants to make a small change, the structure should be opened so that change can flow easily through channels. A college council of the nature outlined would have such an effect.

Finally, the college council concept would formalize what students have been told about Davidson for years: that it is one community with a common goal and interest. If this is so, it should have a common government and a common legislature, responsive and responsible to the entire community. It is time for the structure to change so that reform may continue. If the college ceases to change, if the structure is unresponsive to the times and to the community, Davidson will either explode with the pent-up emotion of a Columbia or stagnate like trapped water. The old has served its time. Davidson is ready for the new.

"GET OUT THE BRIDGE PAD, I THINK WE'VE GOT A FOURTH."

Cary Hits ‘Discriminatory’ Subsidization Of Athletics

To the Editor:

At the risk of being exiled to the basement of Lingle Manor for the rest of my college career, I would like to register a strong protest against subsidized athletics as presently practiced on the Davidson campus. There are two major reasons why the present program of scholarships in relation to subsidized athletics should be revised.

1. It is blatantly discriminatory.
2. It is not the proper use of the money involved.

First let me deal with the problem of discrimination. At Davidson, a student who is a superior athlete in football and/or basketball can get a considerable financial scholarship based on merit, while students who show superior performance in other areas, such as music (on this subject I obviously am biased) cannot get such a scholarship based on merit. This latter group must rely on the ‘need’ provision (which includes honorary scholarships) irrespective of merit. The discrimination is obvious. The college is in fact making a value judgment here and saying that the superior athlete is more worthy than the musician or the superior actor or the superior scholar. Defense of the present system because of this rule and that from a higher committee does not eliminate this essential judgment. Is this distinction valid? I think not. Davidson should do one of two things:

1. Extend merit scholarships to all areas of campus life, with specifications on the number and stipend that may be given in each area.
2. Do away with the idea of scholarship on merit entirely, and base all scholarships on need alone.

I tend to favor the latter alternative because of the second reason for intervention—improper use of the money. I believe THE DAVIDSONIAN gave a figure of somewhere in the neighborhood of $200,000 as the cost of subsidized athletics. Consider what even a small portion of this money could do for the “other side of the tracks" here. What could it do for an African, an Asian, or a Black Studies program? Many other uses come to mind immediately. Remember, gentlemen, that this is an educational institution. While athletics is a valid portion of everyone's education, the amount of money spent on subsidized athletics here is not commensurate with the return to the educational system.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters to the editor from any person on any subject, regardless of the views expressed. Letters should not exceed 250 words, and we reserve the right to condense such letters, and to correct for grammar and style. THE DAVIDSONIAN has never in recent years refused to print a letter in good taste whose author could be confirmed.— and this money could be used with much better effect elsewhere. Consider carefully your values. The present scholarship program in this respect is a farce. It needs correction, and it needs correction now.

Norman Miller Cary Jr. '70
Davidson College

Admissions Advice

To the Editor:

Last April after I received notice that my application for admission to Davidson College had been granted, I and the other prospective freshmen admitted on March 15 were invited to spend the first weekend in April on campus. This weekend was designed to further acquaint us with the school, the people here, and what it has to offer, thereby affording us more information with which to make a very important decision. The weekend was very well organized through the efforts of Mr. Regen. Reservations in the Guest House and transportation to and from the campus were handled by the Admissions Office. The Richardson Fellows acted as student guides, each assigned to a few specific visitors. A very good program of tours had been set up so the student could see as much of the school as he wanted. The tours were very informal, strictly pick and choose the ones that interested you. Otherwise, the student was more-or-less on his own. If he needed help or information he had the names of several people whom he could ask.

So far this spring there has been no such program. Perhaps this could be reinstituted next spring for prospective freshmen. The bulk of the admissions are sent out by March 15, a month before the Ivy League. With a month to think about it and an excellent chance to see the school, more of the undecided seniors might decide that Davidson is the place for them.

John Davidson '72
Davidson College

A Dull Scene

To the Editor:

Far be it from us to defend THE DAVIDSONIAN; however, there is a point which has solicited much concern from THE DAVIDSONIAN's far and near readers. These wonderful perceptive readers have come to the realization that THE DAVIDSONIAN seldom contains factual reports and furthermore is a biased “crusading opinion.”

“Why doesn't THE DAVIDSONIAN inform us about what's shaking on campus?” inquire the dear interested readers. Since we're here as students, the question is near and dear to our hearts. And from our observations we have come to the realization of which we are going to make a factual report. There is absolutely nothing ‘shaking’ on the Davidson campus. THE DAVIDSONIAN has been forced to pour out thrashings and rehashings of the same old issues week after week to fill up the paper. This is the only alternative left to THE DAVIDSONIAN staff because if THE DAVIDSONIAN were limited to factual reporting, the only edition would come out at graduation.

Rod Moore '72
Bart McCormick '72
Ken Prestwich '71
Davidson College

Tucker Defends

To the Editor:

If I've interpreted Mrs. Wallace’s response to Brown, Parks et al. correctly, she seems to say that the black situation in Davidson (read America) is just one facet of the human condition. In this, I think, there is more than a grain of truth, but her claim becomes a patent denial of the blacks’ awareness of their singular position within American (read Davidson) society. Be this a result of a failure to understand or an unwillingness to listen, I couldn't say; as a white student, I can only contend that both rationally and viscerally I share somewhat the black students’ bitterness.

I doubt that Brown, Parks, and Williams think their blackness a sanctuary. America has for 360 years revered white, reviled black, and I hardly think that Davidson's black contingent need apologize for escaping the fulsome white syndrome. If there is anything at all common to the philosophies of Ellison, Baldwin, Fanon, Jones, or Cleaver, it is their disavowal of the effete whiteness of the social system. Nor is there anything fictional about the blacks’ enemies, be they persons or institutions. There is certainly nothing illusory or “created” about the insidious racism (attitude as well as behavioral) which pervades this campus. In this regard, I find Les Brown's favorite word to be particularly appropriate.

Cary Tucker '70
Davidson College

Editorial Attacked

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to your editorial “Less Than Courteous.” As is usually the case, it is THE DAVIDSONIAN staff that has not taken the trouble to check facts and in the process you are guilty of being far less than courteous. Here are the facts involved in the three cases you referred to:

You state: “The Admissions Office had made no arrangements for the housing of these prospective students...” Fact: At our request, Cecil Burney had definitely made arrangements for the prospective freshmen. In one case that I know about, the room was locked late Friday afternoon when the student arrived, and I had to make alternate arrangements. Students on the hall made the first gesture to help and I responded accordingly.

You state: “A third prospective freshman was given the impression that the Admissions Office would find him a ride to the airport Saturday.” Although normally the Admissions Office cannot provide rides for prospective freshmen to or from Charlotte, I did go to the Charlotte airport during my lunch hour on Friday to meet the student and bring him to Davidson. I told him I had not been able to find him a ride back to Charlotte for his Saturday afternoon flight. I suggested that he ride the bus, and he indicated that this was satisfactory with him.

You state: “In the meantime the admission officer left, reportedly to help show around some basketball prospects.” Facts: There were no basketball prospects on campus that weekend.

You state: “The Admissions Office can't understand why less than the desired number are making their tuition deposits for next year.” Fact: We want a smaller class, have accepted 45 less than we had at the same time last year, and I think it is understandable that the number of deposits is lower. As a matter of information, it should be pointed out that the prospective students you mentioned have sent their deposits for admission in next year's freshman class.

James W. Hyder Jr.
Asst. Director of Admissions