The Davidsonian
Page Four
November 14, 1969

(Staff Photos by Lyle)

ONE IF BY LAND... Mike Kelly watches as Gordon Slade runs for a score at Homecoming.

Cat Defense To Challenge Wofford Scoring Machine
By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Writer

In what Coach Smith describes as a "season of firsts," another first will be at stake tomorrow as the Wofford Terriers bring the menace of the Wofford-Y to Richardson Field to meet the Wildcats in their 2:00 PM home finale. A Southern Championship and an initial bowl invitation are the firsts Smith refers to, while the other possibility is the first of achieving eight victories. Davidson, however, carries a six-game winning streak and an explosive offense averaging 37.7 points per game. With Wofford's 8.3 points per game average, a high-scoring affair should be expected.

Davidson Wins SC As Rally Crushes E. Carolina
The Wildcats of Davidson rolled into their first-ever Southern Conference football title with a thrilling come-from-behind win over East Carolina and its old-fashioned single wing. Coach Homer Smith brought the team back from a 27-0 deficit with three and a half minutes remaining to win going away by a 42-27 count. Coach Clarence Stassovich of East Carolina is the last major college advocate of the single wing in this day of "the wishbone T," "the Veer T," and "the Wofford Y," but he pulled out another almost victory with a punishing ground game.

The East Carolina defense solved the problem of containing the passing of Gordon Slade by keeping the Pirate offense on the field for most of the half. Bill Wightman did most of the damage for the Pirates as he raced for a Southern Conference record 245 yards in the game. He tallied on runs of one, five, and ten yards in building the big ECU lead. But Davidson coach Dave Fagg made defensive adjustments at the half, and the Wildcat defense helped the explosive Davidson offense turn the game around. 

Defensive line giant Ken Totherow led the defensive surge in the second half as the Cats consistently stopped the same plays which had gone for long gains in the first half. Totherow was named the Southern Conference defensive player of the week for his efforts.

Meanwhile, Slade was cranking up his throwing arm, and the results were disastrous for the East Carolina Pirates. Just before the half-time intermission, Slade hit Mike Kelly for a 23-yard scoring strike to put Davidson on the board. The turning point of the game came in the third quarter during East Carolina’s first possession. Ken Hill had climaxed a Davidson scoring drive with a two-yard plunge to cut the margin to 13 points. East Carolina tried one of their infrequent passes, and linebacker Chris Giles made the interception which precipitated the rout.

Once again, the key to the victory was the Davidson aerial attack as Slade hit on 20 of 28 passes for 234 yards and five touchdowns, including a 13 for 16 performance in the big second half. Kelly and George Hannen were Slade’s favorite targets as Kelly grabbed eight passes for 98 yards and two touchdowns, while Hannen had five catches for 98 yards and two scores. Mike Mikolayunas, Hill, and Hannen also caught touchdown passes.

Slade made a repeat performance as the Southern Conference player of the week for his second-half passing. The win gave Davidson at least a tie for the conference championship with the Richmond Spiders. The Wildcats are automatically the Tangerine Bowl representatives by virtue of their 37-7 win over Richmond. The championship is Davidson's first in football competition in their history as a member of the Southern Conference. The bowl bid is another first in the annals of Wildcat football.

East Carolina has had experience in the Tangerine contest itself. The Pirates went to the game in both 1964 and 1965 and won both years. The bowl game will be a new experience for both Toledo and Davidson since neither has appeared in a post-season clash before.

Wofford (6-2) dropped their two opening games but have come on strong since, with 35 points being their lowest point total in their six-game streak. Included in their streak are a 61-9 thrashing of Emory and Henry and a 19-7 win over Furman. Smith said of the Terriers, "We've never faced a Wofford team that didn’t have a great quarterback, and this year is no exception."

Smith has warned that any team which can score like the Terriers cannot be taken lightly. Harold Chandler pilots the "Wofford Y," a formation similar to Texas’ Wishbone T. Last week he broke the school passing record against Catawba as he connected on 14 of 21 passes for 306 yards. Thus far, Chandler has completed 53 percent of his passes for 771 yards. His favorite target has been freshman split end Skip Corn, who has 19 receptions totaling 308 yards and three touchdowns. Larry Forgacs and Bobby Jordan have been his other leading receivers.

Wofford, however, concentrates on a ground attack as they have amassed an average of 282 yards rushing per game. The ground assault centers on fullback Clifford Boyd, who is closing in on the school rushing record. On 144 carries, Boyd has totaled 828 yards and needs to gain 231 yards in the Terrier’s final three games to erase the old standard. Quarterback Chandler is also a fine runner as he has rushed 59 times for 281 yards and a 4.7 average. Flanking Boyd are two good halfbacks in Bobby Jordan and Mike Lunsford. Jordan rushes at a 6.1-yard clip, gaining 520 yards in 83 attempts. Lunsford, too, is quite a respectable runner, averaging 4.5 yards per carry.

Middle guard Gordon Koleznar and defensive end Bruce Johnson anchor Wofford’s five-four defense. Johnson was named the Terrier’s outstanding defensive player last year, while Koleznar has been averaging close to 14 tackles per outing. Gordon Slade might beware as the Wofford secondary broke a school record with their nineteenth pass interception last week. But as Wofford’s Athletic Director said, "Nobody has been able to handle Gordon all year, and I don’t know how successful we will be."

The Terriers are out to revenge last season's defeat at the hands of the Wildcats. Meanwhile, the Wildcats will be out to vindicate themselves against a running offense. In their previous encounters with strong running clubs, the ‘Cats have had difficult times with Guilford, William and Mary, and East Carolina last week.

TANGERINE BOWL DECEMBER 26

Sailing Team Wins Case, Falls In Boston Regatta
The Davidson honor system and honor code had a stern test to pass last weekend when the Davidson sailing club was stopped in Massachusetts on suspicion of armed robbery. The team managed to beat that rap but succumbed to the strongest competition that the team has ever faced in the New England Intercollegiate Sailing Association regatta.

The Davidson sailors finished tenth in a field of 12 teams, defeating only Cornell and Michigan State. The host, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, won the championship followed by the University of Rhode Island and Harvard. The regatta was held on the Charles River.

Ground-Conscious Toledo Unbeaten Tangerine Foe
While Davidson has had close calls and thrillers in clinching its bid to the Tangerine Bowl, the Mid-American champion, the University of Toledo, has swept past its first eight opponents without a loss.Rockets of coach Frank X. Lauterbur were in the same situation as the Wildcats as they had to defeat the preseason favorite and defending conference champion—Ohio University to win the title. The Rockets blistered Ohio 34-9, stopping the Bobcats’ explosive passing offense. The Ohio team was the same squad which dropped last season’s Tangerine contest to Richmond in a wild 49-42 affair. Toledo has outscored its rivals by a 274-127 margin.

Wildcats High In NCAA Totals, Slade, Hannen Place Near Top

The name of the game has been offense for the Wildcat football team this fall, and the success which Homer Smith's “offenders” have had is evidenced in the team’s high national rankings. The Wildcat offense is tied with the Auburn Tigers for sixth place in the NCAA scoring race. Both teams have averaged 37.3 points per game in 8 contests. The pass has been a way of life for Davidson for the last five seasons under Smith, and this year the 'Cats rate 10th nationally in pass offense.

Leading the individual statistics parade for the team are George Hannen and Gordon Slade. Slade is second in the nation in passing with 167 completions in 251 attempts. His .665 percentage places him first in accuracy. He is only six completions behind national leader Chuck Hixson of SMU. Slade is 10th in total offense with 1869 yards passing and 14 net yards rushing. He is tied with Purdue's Phipps for the national leadership in touchdowns accounted for (touchdown passes and touchdown runs).

Hannen is listed in the NCAA statistics in three categories: scoring, receiving, and punt return yardage. The senior end is sixteenth in scoring with 62 points. His 281 yards on punt returns place him eighth in the nation. Hannen is one of three Davidson receivers in the top 20 receivers, with 49 catches and 612 yards good for sixth place. Mike Kelly is fourth with 60 receptions for 795 yards, only three catches out of second place, while Mike Mikolayunas is 16th with 44 receptions.

Ed Terry, the Davidson kicker, has also made the national lists with his talented toe. Terry ranks ninth in the nation in points scored by a kicker. His 50 points leave him only two behind Ken Crots of the University of Toledo, Davidson's Tangerine Bowl opponent. The touchdown has been a way of life for Davidson’s sixth-ranked offense, which has scored an average of 34.3 points a game.

Rocket attack

Chuck Ealy has hit 121 passes for 1017 yards in the ground-oriented Toledo attack. Al Baker and Don Fair are the prime receivers with 18 and 20 catches respectively. Fair has 303 yards and two touchdowns, while Baker has scored five times while gaining 36 yards. The key to the Toledo running attack is tailback Tony Harris. Harris has galloped for 788 yards and seven touchdowns in 133 carries. Five of his scores have come on runs of 45 yards or longer.

A pair of fullbacks supply the straight-ahead power in short yardage situations. Charlie Cole has 472 yards in 107 carries, while Dick Seymour has 130 yards on 42 attempts. Cole has scored seven times and Seymour five. The two of them have been caught for losses only three times all season. Ealy has also scrambled for 230 yards rushing. Last year’s starting quarterback Steve Jones has been moved to backup tailback where his tremendous speed will be more of an advantage and his erratic passing less of a liability. He has gained 178 yards in 34 rushes, better than five yards a carry. Slotback Dan Crockett rounds out the attack with 12 carries for 142 yards and 14 receptions for 250 yards.

The Rockets boast one of the nation’s finest placekickers in Kenny Crots, who has hit on 34 of 37 conversions and six field goals for 52 points. Crots holds the NCAA record for consecutive point-after placements with 77, a string which was snapped in the third game this season.

Lauterbur's Toledo teams have ranked near the top in national pass defense figures for the last several seasons, and the pass defense is a strong point again this year. Led by a trio of deep backs, Curtis Johnson, Jerry Henkson, and Tom Duncan, Toledo has intercepted 15 passes this campaign. Johnson, with 5, is just one away from the Rocket record. Toledo has yielded only 1180 yards passing for an average of 147.5 per game.

On the other hand, the Mid-American Conference is not known as a passing conference. The perennial powers, Bowling Green State and Miami of Ohio, are both ground-oriented, ball control teams. These two teams, second and third in the conference this season, both gave the Rockets close contests. Miami fell 14-10 and Bowling Green lost 27-26 on a field goal with two seconds left.

The Rockets will face Dayton tomorrow and close next week with Xavier. Neither has much hope of upsetting the Toledo powerhouse, so Davidson will probably face an unbeaten opponent December 26.

The Charles River runs directly through Boston. The trip to Boston is the longest that the sailing team has made, and the travel expenses used up a large share of the team's fall budget. The Davidson team was composed of Dan Johnston, Lewis Riley, Allen Lundy, and James Hunter. Johnston, one of the skippers, called the regatta “the most exciting” that Davidson has sailed in. He also termed the competition “by far the best we have ever met.”

The team was stopped on the road Saturday night by several police cruisers. The members of the team fit the description given by the victim of a robbery at gunpoint. The team was detained until positive identification could be made. They were released with many apologies from the officers.

The next competition on the docket of the team is the Fall Championships of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association, which are scheduled for Nov. 22 and 23 at Clemson University. Once again, the chief competition is expected to be the team from The Citadel. Davidson's chances are bright as a result of their previous performances against the Bulldogs this fall. The champion of the event wins the right to represent the South Atlantic I.S.A. in the national championships, which are scheduled for late December in New Orleans, Louisiana.

Tangerine Bowl Tickets On Sale

Tickets for the Tangerine Bowl game between the Southern Conference champion, Davidson, and the Mid-American Conference champion, the University of Toledo, will go on sale tomorrow at the gate, according to athletic Director Tom Scott. The tickets will be placed on sale on a first-come, first-served basis at the gate of the Wofford game with no special preference given to students or faculty. Davidson has been given about 3000 tickets or seats on one side of the field from the end zone to the 30-yard line. The tickets will cost five dollars each. The game will be played December 26, in Orlando, Florida, before a predicted sellout crowd of 20,000. The 8:00 p.m. game will also be nationally televised.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA “MAKE YOUR OWN”

Use This Great One Time Record Offer
SAVE 50%
This Coupon Good For 50% OFF LIST PRICE On Any ONE Album purchased at THE RECORD BAR
213 N. TRYON St.
Signature of Purchaser
Only 1 Coupon Per Student, Expires 9 p.m. (Nov. 17, 1969)
THE RECORD BAR, Inc.
213 N. TRYON St.
The South’s Largest Complete Record Store
OPEN NIGHTLY ‘TIL 9