. The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO NOVEMBER 14, 1969

Area Exams, 1967-1969

In Memoriam

“Whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them.”

The faculty has made a wise and timely decision on area exams. By cutting through the red tape and false
issues which have clouded this question from the start, the faculty has exercised much-needed authority to resolve an agonizing problem.

One immediate and desirable effect of the faculty's decision will be to reduce the mounting emotional tension of sophomores who
are faced with the option of transferring or “sticking it out” with the exams. At this late date, less than
half of the sophomore class had passed more than one of the four exams. Decisive faculty action, after so many
delays, will relieve the confusion which has interrupted plans for studying for the exams.

Of course, the real issue behind the area exam question is the course-requirements approach to liberal arts education. The special
committee will be able to attack this problem more effectively since it can now do so without being restricted by
a commitment to area exams.

One can only speculate about the forces which produced such hasty and decisive action on a subject which has been
bandied around for so long. Desperation could have played a part. The faculty was faced with a brace of alternatives
to the area exams as a concept: But there was a lack of strong support—by faculty or students—for any specific
proposal. Undoubtedly, the faculty was faced with the consequences of having bungled into a commitment to the area exam concept
and was ashamed of having administered exams which were not adequately prepared.

Indications are that the faculty was impressed by the restraint and responsibility of the students who offered various proposals on
area exams. While certain faculty members were sensitive to the psychological tension and confusion of students over the exams, it
is doubtful that threats of mass transfer were taken seriously.

Students acted to their own advantage when they allowed restraint to rule when the delicate deliberations in the EPC could
have been disturbed by threats or outbursts of direct action. All along the way, the faculty’s favor fell on those
who expressed their concern responsibly.

We hope that students will resist the temptation to view the faculty action as capitulation after a fight. Such an
attitude might prejudice the impending study of course requirements. The view that the faculty is either right about everything or
completely useless is not a desirable stance for the reformers to take, since their reforms must be enacted by the
faculty.

The moral credibility of the faculty has been enhanced by this forthright admission of error and resolve to begin anew.

The Fruits Of Victory

With everyone running around Davidson making prophecies about subsidized football, and with the Charlotte papers predicting the fall of the
short-lived Davidson dynasty in the Southern Conference, it is at least nice to know that there is one group on
campus which has not been hampered by the ominous whisperings. That group, of course, is the football team.

Whether the idea of subsidized athletics is right or wrong, whether the school will have to de-emphasize football, and whether
it is financially unprofitable to play football at Davidson are questions which certainly have been on everyone's minds. For two
quarters last weekend it appeared to be on the team’s mind more than defense was. But the effort in the
second half overcame all doubt, and in the end there was at least partial sweetness to overcome the sour taste
of Saturday's newspapers.

It appears now that football is on the wane at Davidson, despite the 100 percent efforts of everyone on the
team. It is quite likely extremely probable that Homer Smith is in his last season at Davidson. And sad as
it may seem, the best season in Davidson’s football history will in all probability mark the ironic decline of Wildcat
dominance.

We have laughed at the people we jokingly called “the jocks.” We have ignored them in the past, for they
won small and they lost big. We have read our yearbooks, in which we saw less space each year for
football and more for basketball. Now the tide is turned, but perhaps not for long. If reports find more credence
than criticism, we will return to the years of the Dirty Thirty and more laughter. There will be a few
memories, an extra page or two in the annual, and at least a tangerine or two as the fruit of
the team’s labor. But there will be no return to the big year, when Davidson won big.

What is left is the present (and perhaps a hope for the future). If we win big again tomorrow, and
come close next week, who knows what the future will hold. So right now, let’s live for the present... and,
er... beat Wofford.

On Sponsorship

There have been some grumblings all week from students and faculty about freedom of the student press, everyone saying something
and very few listening to others. For the sake of clarification, it is necessary that the incidents of the past
week be explained. We hope that such explanation will add an element of fact to the prevalent rumors and cool
down an over-heated misunderstanding.

Last week’s DAVIDSONIAN was rather poorly handled by all parties concerned. In its efforts to get the commission reports to
the alumni, the administration assumed a power seldom granted, that of reading the paper’s copy. In doing so, it granted
a promise to the paper that last week’s issue would be distributed to some 16,000 alumni along with the paper’s
regular subscribers. It turned out to be a promise which the administration found difficult to keep, because of its displeasure
with the presence of an editorial. The president’s office has said that it was unaware of the terms of agreement.
For this failure in the administrative ranks to communicate, and for its exertion of power over the paper, the administration
is at fault.

However, the editors assume responsibility for their manner of handling the issue. The abridgments, which were advisory, should have been
run as such, and the issue printed intact. Had we done this, the administration could have chosen either to purchase
the abridgments and send them to alumni or draft their own abridgments.

Had we done this, the Charlotte papers would not have taken our abridgments and utilized them as they did, without
specific mention of their advisory nature and with a pervading sense of finality.

Had we done this, there would have been no agreement, to be followed by broken agreement and hard feelings; there
would have been no implied obligation to mail the paper to alumni.

The question, therefore, of who is to blame comes down to the simple answer of everyone involved.

The solution of the problem brings an element of promise to the situation. From all indications, President Samuel Spencer knew
nothing of the terms of the agreement; for this both he and the editor blame themselves. His decision on Monday
to distribute the paper to alumni in spite of his personal preference for reports sans comment is a praiseworthy decision,
not because we feel the paper deserves to be sent out, but because the president has expressed through his action
a great willingness to cooperate with the students.

He has shown himself to be concerned with their feelings and their interests, and he has done it by momentarily
disregarding his own interests. It is not a major decision. But it is significant, at least to us.

“Do You Think It’ll Stick?”

LETTER:

Readers Appraise Commission Texts

To the Editor:

I would like to take issue with certain comments made in the editorial on the Commission on Church Relatedness. As
a member of the Commission, I simply do not agree that “the tone and texture of the report is apologetic
and defensive... regarding the premise that Davidson should maintain its ties with the Presbyterian Church.”

I think I can speak for the entire Commission in saying that we felt that the tone and texture were
rather positive, and documentation is available for the premise that we should maintain ties with the Presbyterian Church.

The Commission worked hard on the report, and we believe it to be the best possible document. You mentioned in
the report by the Subcommittee on Program by referring to an alleged “suggestion that any act of service or good
will by the students shows support of the Church.”

I looked back over our Subcommittee report and can find no such suggestion or any intimation of such a suggestion.
The report does say that we can gauge the religious atmosphere at Davidson in many ways, one of which is
by looking at the number of students involved in service activities.

The report also acknowledges the fact that many students are hostile to the institutional Church, and it also acknowledges the
fact that there are some students who certainly participate in the Church. Both facts are true.

The Editor should read these reports more carefully.

R. Scott Woodmansee
College Chaplain

Athletics

To the Editor:

With all due respect to the distinguished gentlemen on Dr. Spencer's Commission on Athletics, I feel obliged to contradict a
statement in their report.

In regard to the coaches of the non-subsidized sports, it was stated that they would be interested in athletic scholarships,
awarded to all team participants, only if these could be...Questions ROTC Defenders

To the Editor:

I read Mr. Hart's letter in the Oct. 31 DAVIDSONIAN, saying that the students “were advised not to participate in
such events again” and was rather interested in his reaction to my letter (DAVIDSONIAN, Oct. 24) and the subsequent story
(on the charge that advanced ROTC students had been approached by the ROTC department for their participation in the Moratorium).
Mr. Hart seems to have forgotten certain questions, however, which certainly are pertinent. For example:

1. Why didn't the ROTC department inform all of the Advanced ROTC cadets that this activity was not allowable under
active duty? Surely everyone in the department should have been told if the good of the ROTC students was a
primary consideration.

2. If intentions were altruistic, then why were the names of Advanced ROTC cadets taken secretly? (as certainly seems to
be indicated by the available evidence) This looks a bit suspicious.

3. Why were the students who participated in the Moratorium called in one at a time? This would seem to
be a bit intimidating to the student, and one might draw certain unspoken conclusions from this rather prejudicial to further
participation in such activities in the future. I admit my mistake, but I do feel that one might read such
an unspoken implication of this sort by the way the situation was handled.

4. On the assumption that more than three names were taken, one may legitimately question what is to be done
with the names if all of these students do not have the matter discussed with them.

5. Does this participation in the Moratorium affect the security clearance of the Advanced Student for commissioning?

6. Would Mr. Hart prefer to let the rumor fester, or have it cleared up in public?

As I stated in my letter, I think the ROTC department has value on this campus, and one of my
reasons for articulating the rumor was to settle the matter once and for all, for the good of the campus
and the ROTC department. Personally, I think Col. Foster had good intentions for what he did. But I also think
that the best that can be said about the situation was that it was handled in the worst way possible.
Mr. Hart must admit, however, that the matter needs to be cleared up now.

Norman Miller Cary Jr. '70
Davidson College

These coaches would prefer any subsidization of their teams to take such forms as providing top quality physical facilities, equipment
and uniforms, a training table and an increased recruitment budget. As far as the baseball program and my personal feelings
are concerned, this is simply not true. In my report to Dr. Spencer’s Commission on Athletics I strongly requested the
baseball program be given several scholarships and a small recruitment budget, citing reasons for their necessity and desirability. For example,
every team we play in the Southern Conference (which is every one of them) and every other team we play
or can possibly schedule, has some type of financial aid for baseball. For the Athletics Commission not to recommend athletic
grants for baseball is their prerogative. Their purpose was simply to make recommendations. For them to completely ignore my request
in their final report to Dr. Spencer is a “slap in the face.” For the Commission to group me as
a coach preferring money be spent on equipment and facilities, etc. rather than athletic grants is completely false! We already
have excellent facilities and the finest equipment money can buy.

Tom Stevens
Baseball Coach
Davidson College

Uncle Percival’s Wart Remover
By David Sweatt

Games Commissions Play

“The trouble with many professors at this institution,” remarked a senior professor at a little-known Southern college, “is that they
don’t have good olfactory nerves—they don't tell a student when his work stinks!” I here recommend that not just professors,
but students and alumni alike, have inadequate olfactory lobes if they don’t detect a most unpleasant stench when reading the
report of the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. Equally odious was the outsized play given the report in last Saturday’s Charlotte
Observer but that’s another story. Whether one agrees with the commission’s recommendations or not, the report's sloppy thinking, non sequiturs
and errors in just reporting the facts (see letter on this page) insult the intelligence of even the least critical
reader. Since the report is so obviously inadequate for planning for the future of intercollegiate athletics at Davidson, I have
devised a series of games that can provide hours of entertainment for game lovers everywhere.

THE NUMBERS GAME
Dust off your DAVIDSONIAN from last week, pick out a statement from the Report, and try to support it with
the reported results from the questionnaire. Here’s a starter: Report reads, “There is much less support for subsidization of our
football team . . .” By my calculations, using percentages from the commission’s questionnaire summary, I find that favoring subsidized
football in some form were students (71.2%), faculty (28.8%), and alumni (71.1%). Now if the questionnaire sampling is accurate, this
means that we have about 720 students, 28 faculty members, and 11,200 alumni who supported subsidized football in some form!
I dare say the Report rather sidesteps its own figures by noting that subsidized football has “much less support” than
subsidized basketball.

THE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP GAME
We play this one with the academic game—which may or may not give you an advantage in this game. The
idea here is to pick out a stated supposed causal relationship in the report and try to support it. I
return to the sentence used in the first game for my example: “There is much less support for subsidization of
our football team, since in spite of a much larger dollar and man-power budget than basketball, this program has not
been able to field winning teams.” But where on the questionnaire did the reasons for preferences appear? Nowhere. So where
did the commission get this causation? That’s the game.

THE MORAL VICTORIES GAME
Take this quote from the Report: “Moral victories or ‘how you play the game’ are not enough.” Then try to
talk one of your rugby-player friends into getting off the rugby team. Try to convince the team members of some
of our longtime non-winning non-subsidized teams (That’s right Commissioner, non-subsidized teams lose too.) that the teams they play on should
be discontinued. Good luck.

THE MISREPRESENTATION GAME
Read Coach Tom Stevens' letter on this page. Then try to pick out other passages in the Report that may
not accurately reflect views expressed to the Commission.

THE MONEY GAME
Read all the passages about expenses, then try to think of all the factors the Commission may have overlooked. Those
only casually acquainted with the principles of cost-benefit analysis will consider the presentation of costs and benefits irregular at best.
It appears that if the Commission was going to recommend, for instance, what it has recommended for football, it should
have felt compelled to produce a detailed cost-benefit study of the present program to be compared with a similarly detailed
study of what they recommend and foresee. The information sought in such studies is neither easy to get nor easy
to assemble, but it’s essential. It's quite a game. Is it possible that the members of the Commission are part
of a worldwide conspiracy—directed by Mattel? We'll never know. But it’s reassuring to know that people in high places at
Davidson College could never fail to note such obvious shortcomings in a study that would otherwise be given some part
in planning the future of the College.

Reader Attacks Klonsky; Criticizes SDS Slogans

To the Editor:

I attended the speeches delivered by Michael Klonsky and other SDS members the other day in the Union, and to
be frank, I was immensely disappointed. Agreed I was biased. But I did expect an outstanding speaker to say the
least. Quite the contrary. The presentation bore no semblance of order, direction, constructiveness, or anything else that would redeem the
two hours we sat and listened. Klonsky had one and only one technique: the Slogan, with a capital S. Within
that two-hour period the representatives of this young group hit us with more slogans, names, and war-cries than the experienced
Ku Klux Klan or John Birch Society member could have ever thrown in the same time period. And I contend
further from this display that SDS is even more narrow and bigoted than the KKK or JBS. I refer you
to Klonsky's use of terms (like white supremacist, Davidson Chauvinist, fascist pig and business world flunkie) of such generality and
malice that it would make “lousy pinko” or “stupid nigger” seem rational. I went to the presentation to learn one
thing: what does SDS plan to do after they destroy our “sick society?” This question was asked no less than
three times and twice he avoided the answer as he did to all other questions. Finally Klonsky yielded. “That's a
good question and most of us (in the SDS) really don't know.” Gore Vidal said that the SDS knows exactly
how to destroy our society but “they lack the blueprints” to rebuild it and to avoid anarchy, from which would
come tyranny. Klonsky convinced me.

Scott Carter ‘71
Davidson College

Erratum

To the Editor:

I do not subscribe to the conspiracy theory of history and I am not sensitive even about real and large
slights; but I would appreciate an explanation as to why my name was omitted from the list of members of
the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibility in the November 7 DAVIDSONIAN.

E. F. Patterson
Davidson College

ED. NOTE: The editor apologizes for this oversight. Names had to be pieced together from subcommittee lists, so the chances
of such an error were great.
