Se aE aaa “exit oe a . f | Cats’? | . Tracks By RUSS MERRITT Sports Editor

Lefty Was A Winner

His name sounds like that of a pitcher for the Yankees or a country and Western musical star. His Southern
manner of speaking and his very obvious ears do nothing to change this impression. But Charles (Lefty) Driesell is neither.
Instead, the big balding Virginia native was—and may very well still be—one of the most successful collegiate basketball coaches in
the country.

Driesell took over the Davidson head coaching job nine years ago when it was badly in need of a transfusion.
To the surprise of nearly everyone concerned, the delight of Wildcat students and alumni, and the chagrin of many coaches,
Lefty quickly turned a mediocre-to-bad team of pre-ministerials into a nationally ranked and respected squad of potential All-Americans. On the
surface, it appeared to be straight out of the storybook, with Driesell and his prized recruits, Fred Hetzel, Dick Snyder,
Mike Maloy, and all the rest, racking up win after win, championship after championship in conference and tourney play. However,
as the man said, things just weren’t what they seemed to be.

Despite the wins, the cheers, the successes, and the honors, it wasn’t a complete bed of roses for Driesell or
his players. In fact, several thorns had sprouted. First, Driesell tended to emphasize the worst aspects of his personality for
the cause of winning, bringing on conflict with certain members of the faculty, administration, and alumni of Davidson, as well
as alienating many of the members of the press from his cause to promote and build Wildcat basketball. During the
early years of Davidson’s success on the hardcourt, Driesell actually resorted to the unheard-of act of calling the newspapers to
give interviews. At one point, the controversial Driesell had to be called down by the college president because of his
aggressive, high-handed, and often disrespectful attitude. This failed to affect Lefty, however, as he developed one of the most colorful
coaching styles in the country with his fist-waving, hand-clapping, foot-stomping, high-kicking rampages.

The biggest problem that Driesell faced as Davidson’s head mentor, however, came from within the team itself. It is no
secret to Davidson students that Lefty never was in any position to be elected by his players as “Mr. Personality”
or “Nice Guy of the Year” or “Most Popular.” In short, Driesell, although respected, never did gain any affection from
the majority of his players. For example, one of Lefty’s stars several years ago continually cracked jokes in the huddles
at timeouts during a game. Another member of one of Lefty's teams wrote scathing attacks in a Northern newspaper upon
graduation. Indeed, this season one player reportedly offered Driesell a tankful of gas in the new Thunderbird if Lefty’d only
use it to drive to Maryland and stay. Not the type of thing one would do out of affection.

And yet Driesell still won and kept on winning, all the way up to the finals of the Eastern Regionals
this year, giving Davidson its highest-ranked (third in one poll) team and most successful ever. Therefore, one thing about Driesell
remains forever certain: Lefty was a winner and gave Davidson some great basketball teams.

One of Driesell’s close friends is Red Auerbach, former head coach of the then-World Champion Boston Celtics. Auerbach may have
understood Driesell at Davidson better than anyone else. “Lefty was a hard worker, a real dedicated guy. Sure, he may
have been doing it for his own interest. It was his duty to win, so he did it the best
way that he knew how. I’ve learned one definite thing about Driesell; he’s definitely a winner.”

One thing about Driesell’s tenure at Davidson seemed to have griped Auerbach, however. “I have three of his boys in
summer camp, three of his best players. They are always talking about Lefty, complaining about him. At the same time,
I’m getting letters from Driesell, telling me to get them summer jobs, and that sort of thing. Here’s a coach
working for his boys and they don’t appreciate it. I know that he’s got his own interest at heart—they win
for him—but he’s doing the right thing. As a winner, I put my money on Driesell.”

The legend of Lefty will grow through the years, both in its good aspects and its bad. Yet one thing
will always remain a true and essential part of the story. Lefty Driesell was a winner, and there is no
beating a winner.

STEVENS DISCUSSES BASEBALL, SWIMMING

The Davidsonian March 28, 1969 Page Five

‘Lesser’ Sports Hurting Without Money

By BOB WALLACE Sports Writer (Third In A Series)

This last week marked the transition in Davidson life from the bizarre winter and almost frantic frenzy over the Wildcat
roundballers to the calm of spring and apathy toward five of “the other” sports at Davidson College. To Coach Tom
Stevens, though, these last weeks in the college calendar mean a change from swimming brief and towel to baseball togs
and warm-up jacket, as stroke no longer means a powerful arm-pull but an even swing of the bat.

“Every school we play has baseball scholarships, except possibly George Mason. They even have them in the Carolina's Conference,” stated
Stevens. He added quite forcibly: “Why, in the Southern Conference we have 16 games, and each of these schools have
long-standing subsidation programs. It's hard for me to compete against this only on a boy's desire.” He went on to
add that in swimming it is a bit easier, since fewer schools have financial support in this sport, but he
was quick to emphasize that East Carolina has shown what could happen if more Southern Conference schools subsidized swimming.

“I've come to the conclusion,” said Stevens, “that the only difference between the so-called major and minor sports is who
gets the money for scholarships.” On this basis, it is therefore safe to assume that the Davidson nine represent a
minor sport against ‘big timers. Or is it? Commenting on this, Coach Stevens said, “My boys are out there every
day practicing just as hard as the next fellow, yet some athletes are paid and some are not. The ironic
thing is, if a boy needs financial aid he is working an hour or so each day along with ball
practice.”

Coach Stevens’ main complaint, however, lies predominantly within the realm of the admissions policy, or rather the lack of any
set policy. “I get a boy fired up over Davidson, yet I'm not even sure if he'll be accepted. What
I mean is that my major recruiting tool is Davidson’s fine education, but I can't even go to the admissions
office with a boy's transcript and find out if he can be accepted or not.” Stevens went on to add
that a special allowance program, as existing in the “point system” for basketball and football, would be nice, but he'd
gladly settle for just the foreknowledge of whether a boy’s academic record is good enough for admittance.

“Another unfair practice is the school's policy regarding automobiles and financial aid,” added Stevens. “Here’s a boy in another sport
who has a car, while a boy playing for me works just as hard, gets far less glory, and if
he’s on financial aid is not allowed to have one.”

Driesell’s Departure Leaves Head Coaching Job Unsure

By DON PARMAN Sports Writer

Basketball coach Lefty Driesell's departure for Maryland at the height of the recruiting season has thrown the top position at
Davidson into a mad scramble among at least five or six of the original 75 applicants. A three-man committee consisting
of President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., Athletic Director Tom Scott, and Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnson is screening the
applicants but has made little of its present information public. According to Scott, the committee has the list down to
five or six names which he declines to reveal.

The Davidson assistant coaches, Terry Holland and Jerry Conboy, were among the early favorites but seem to have fallen back
in the most recent speculation. Conboy was a highly successful high school coach in Pennsylvania before joining the staff here.
After Driesell’s departure, he announced that if he was not named to the head coaching position he would not stay
on as an assistant. He spent the last

TERRY HOLLAND StillPossible * «x «x Sporttopics x *« * Tonight Kerry Keith, Davidson’s Southern Conference wrestling champion, will meet
his first-round opponent in the NCAA wrestling championships. Keith, who wrestles in the 191-pound weight division, left for Brigham Young
University in Provo, Utah Wednesday to attend the match. His first opponent had yet to be announced.

How much is your spare time worth? You can earn an extra $50 a week, even more. That's up to
you. Because when you’re selling for Wear-Ever, you'll have a flexible schedule that will not conflict with your studies. We
give you the training, but you decide when you'll use it. For complete details, write or call; Wear-Ever is an
equal opportunity company.

WEAR - EVER

At the Southern Conference swimming championship meet two weeks ago, Davidson swimmers broke five school records despite finishing last. Mac
Davis surpassed the old records for the 100 and 50 yard freestyle events, swimming the distances in 50.52 and 22.8
seconds. Davis also teamed with Jack Steele, Jim Newton, and Bill Woodson to break the school records in the 800
and 400 yard free relay races. The quintet finished third in the 800 and second in the 400 with a
time of 3:27.5 seconds. Steele surpassed his own record for the 400 yard individual medley by finishing fifth in 4:57
seconds.

Jerry Conboy spent last week recruiting in New Jersey. Conboy has already been offered the head coaching job at Point
Park College in Pittsburgh. His name was mentioned earlier as one of the top choices to replace Bob Cousy at
Boston College. Holland has played and coached under Driesell at Davidson. In his senior year at Davidson, he led the
nation in field goal percentage. Holland also gave indications that he would not stay at Davidson if he is not
named to Driesell’s old spot. Maryland has given him an offer as one of Driesell’s assistants at College Park. Holland
was also recruiting last week in Ohio and Indiana.

The two biggest names mentioned thus far seem to be out of consideration. Lou Carnesecca, the volatile St. John’s coach,
was rumored to have been offered the job and to have turned it down. Yet Bill Esposito, St. John's sports
information director, was surprised to hear of the rumor. “Lou's coaching here next year. As far as I know he
hasn't even been contacted by the people at Davidson,” The other top name, Marquette’s Al McGuire, has not even applied
for the position. “I wasn't spoken to. I don't want to consider any offers after what happened last year and
all the publicity that came out of it.” McGuire was offered a position as general manager and coach of the
Milwaukee Bucks last season, but Marquette would not let him out of his multi-year contract which still has three years
to run.

The top candidates at the present seem to be Roy Skinner of Vanderbilt and Bill Foster of Rutgers. Skinner has
coached the Commodores for nine seasons. Prior to this year, his teams have amassed a 145-54 record and have won
a Southeastern Conference Title. His squad defeated Davidson twice in the 1967-68 season. Foster has built Rutgers into a power
in the East in a remarkably short time. This year's team finished 20-3 and went to the N.I.T. without the
aid of scholarship players. He emphasizes a defensive, ball control strategy.

“In baseball what could I do with financial aid?" asked Stevens. “Well, you can't win without pitching and without scholarships
it’s hard to land a good mound expert to win games.” “What I would like to see,” continued Stevens, “is
each coach in these ‘minor sports’ given three to five scholarships if they want them. The purpose in athletics is
not to make money. With these scholarships incorporated with the school’s need policies, I could build a very respectable team
and a possible Conference champion.” “I look at it this way,” concluded Stevens. “The scholarship is not only a prestige
symbol for a boy in any sport, but a means to carry the burden of college expenses on his own.”

Berry Picks Machis To Win In Volleyball
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The volleyball season begins Monday, and several teams appear to be able to win the championship. Volleyball is a sport
which, like basketball, places a premium on quickness, agility, and height. The Sigma Chis, last year’s winners with an 11-1
record, again seem to have these qualities, particularly the latter. Jeff Pflugner, Pete Norton, Dave Wasserman, and Jim Long will
lead the team which again should be a contender for the volleyball championship.

The Phi Delts will field their usually strong team, particularly if 6-9 Rocky Crosswhite plays. The Delts were quite strong
in games in which Crosswhite played last season. The Delts feature an additional core of returnees from last season, plus
newcomers like Gene Early and John McCammon.

The Pikas, last year’s runners-up and the only team to defeat the Sigma Chis, will also field an excellent team.
Top returning players from last season are Tom Hendren and Joe Lansinger, while sophomores Mark Affeldt and Billy Pierce should
help the team considerably.

Another strong team will be the Kappa Sigs, who will be as big or bigger than the Sigma Chis. The
best players for the Sigs will be Mike Kelly, Gary Hemric, Peter Boggs, William Brown, and Bill McKenzie.

The ATO's are a question mark, but have the potential to be a good team if sophomores come through. Returning
from last year's team are John Durham and Jim McDowell. Top sophomore prospects include Brad Danielson, Larry Flynn, and Mort
Chiles.

The SPE’s should have one of their better teams of recent years. They have some size and quickness and this
year feature enough overall depth to have a formidable team. Kent Rhodes and Fletcher Hartsell are the top returnees from
last season.

The Sigma Nus have everything necessary for a great volleyball team except depth. They can play five or six excellent
players, but are weak beyond that. Steve Hayes, Bruce Weidner, Toby Westmoreland, and Calvin Morphy are the stars for the
Nus.

The volleyball season should see the continuation of the rise of the athletic fortunes of the Independents. Top players will
be Bob Peel, Jim Trevathan, Mark Thompson, and the ever-present R. D. ‘Aristotle’ Anderson.

The SAE’s have talent, but whether they can muster enough of it for every game will determine the success of
their season. Top players are K. D. Weeks and Charles Brockwell.

Alas, the Pi Kapps will again finish last. Even the exploits of John Huggins will not keep the Pi Kapps
out of the cellar again.

JADE EAST A MAN'S COLOGNE

Your Psychology professor lives with his mother? Think it over, over coffee. The Think Drink.

For your own Think Drink Mug, send 75¢ and your name and address to:
Think Drink Mug, Dept. 8, P.O. Box 559, New York, N.Y. 10046.
The International Coffee Organization.

IS THIS YOU?

I am opposed to the Viet Nam War (and any such war that is not based upon defense of our
country). Please send me an application to the Ministry of your church, as well as information as to its beliefs
and membership throughout the world. It is my understanding that if I am accepted to the ministry of your church,
I cannot conscientiously participate in any military involvement not directly concerned with the defense of our country or its possessions.
I further understand that training will not interfere with my normal work or academic schedule, and I can choose my
own location of service to God and humanity. Enclosed is $1.00 to cover clerical expenses and cost of mailing.

NAME
Address
City
State
Zip

Mail entire ad to:
Church of the Humanitarian God; P. O. Box 13236; St. Petersburg, Florida 33733.
