"Bad Mouth" Stirs Davidson Grocer
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The town of Davidson was blasted last Friday by the worst case of bad mouth since Lefty lost Charlie Scott.
It seems that Mrs. Coleen Norket of the Davidson Grocery cut off the credit of one of her delinquent customers,
and that irate patron, fortified with the nectar of Dionysus, visited the establishment to register a protest.

Mrs. Norket called the police to remove Alan Robinson and his uncle, "Doc" Thomas. She said Robinson was "cussing me
out with all kinds of foul language, and in front of those school children, too."

John Griffin of the Davidson Police promptly arrived and put Robinson and Thomas in his patrol car. When he went
back into the store to obtain a warrant, however, the two men jumped out of the car and ran off
in separate directions. A group of bystanders did not stop them. Thomas ran across Main Street and hid in the
bushes behind Phi Hall on the college campus. Officer Griffin followed him in his car, pulled Thomas out of the
bushes, handcuffed him, and forced him into the patrol car. Robinson, however, escaped and is still hiding somewhere in Davidson's
black neighborhood. The police have a warrant for his arrest, charging him with disorderly conduct, resisting arrest, public drunkenness, and
using profane language in a public place.

Thomas is in jail in Charlotte, charged with public drunkenness and resisting arrest. His trial will be held Jan. 20
in Charlotte. Mrs. Norket said she was reluctant to testify at the trial "because if I told them the kind
of language he used here they'd throw me out of court."

Up 'n' Coming

Friday, January 10
Wrestling: Lexington, Va. Davidson vs. VMI 7-10 p.m.
10 p.m. Movie: IFC Rush parties Patterson Court Morrison Room "Murderer's Row"

Saturday, January 11
2-5 p.m. IFC Rush Parties
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs. W. Va. Patterson Court

Sunday, January 12
2-5 p.m. IFC Rush Parties
8 p.m. Movie: "The Silencer" Morrison Room

Monday, January 13
Morning: Fraternity bids
7 p.m. Free University classes
8:15 p.m. Artist Series: National Players Love Auditorium

Tuesday, January 14
10 a.m. Assembly: Dr. Ed Jones, department of History, Furman University Love Auditorium
8:30 p.m. Philanthropic Society Phi Hall

Wednesday, January 15
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs. Wake Forest Charlotte
10-12 p.m. Combo Party at Queens

Thursday, January 16
10 a.m. Assembly: Student Government Love Auditorium
1 p.m. Summer Job Fair Chambers Dining Hall
8 p.m. Movie: "The Silencer" Morrison Room

Friday, January 17
8 p.m. Movie: "The Silencer" Morrison Room

McKelway Gets Grant Abroad

Dr. Alexander J. McKelway, associate professor of religion and author of the award-winning book, "The Systematic Theology of Paul Tillich,"
has won a government-supported fellowship for study abroad during 1969-70. The grant, known as the National Foundation for the Humanities
Younger Scholars Fellowship, covers study, living, and travel expenses for eight months. McKelway plans to do research on the Christian
doctrine of man at the University of Basel, Switzerland, where he received his ThD in 1963. McKelway, who plans to
study also at Oxford, England, during the coming summer, hopes to write a book on the Christian doctrine of man
based on his studies. The award is the second National Foundation for the Humanities fellowship in two years for a
Davidson professor. Dr. W. Brown Patterson, associate professor of History, studied at Oxford during 1967-68. McKelway's grant was originally for
the current year, but he asked that it be delayed a year because of commitments at Davidson.

Two Killed In Davidson When Trapped In Fire

Two people were killed in their burning home in Davidson during the Christmas holidays. Frank Robinson, 62, and his sister
Alice Reid, 57, perished in flames about noon Dec. 26. Robinson's home at 128 Mock Circle, in the section behind
Main Street, was gutted by the fire. The Davidson Fire Department was able to save the walls of the dwelling,
but they arrived too late to reach the two people trapped inside. The Fire Department officer investigating the blaze said
it was apparently caused by smoking in bed.

Flu Epidemic Slackens In Mecklenburg County
By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

Christmas vacation apparently saved Davidson students from exposure to one of the worst flu seasons ever seen in Mecklenburg County.
"Flu is still very, very prevalent in the community," said Dr. James B. Woods Jr., college physician, "but there is
not a great deal in the student body now. The peak in the town seems to have been reached between
Christmas and New Year, so the students missed the worst part of the worst two or three weeks of flu
I have ever seen." Dr. Maurice Kamp, health director of the Mecklenburg Health Department in Charlotte, said, "Although no exact
statistics are available, we have...

Students Devise Scheme To Publish Writings

Several students have planned a quick means for local publication of campus writing. According to Lyn Montague, one of the
planners, prose, poetry, and nonfiction will be published and distributed at the college bookstore for a price expected to cover
the cost of printing. "The author would be expected to pay a few pennies to cover the cost of printing
and perhaps help with the cost of paper, typing, and reading other manuscripts," Montague said. "The job of editing, as
now foreseen, will be done with only practical considerations in mind. There may be some questions and problems, for instance,
about mimeographing for sale a 400-page novel, or an essay on the biochemistry of light perception." The editing students may
be contacted through Calvin Jones.

Students Injured In Auto Collision
By STEVE CROSS
Staff Writer

Three Davidson students and a recent graduate were injured in a collision last Saturday night on U.S. 21 while coming
back from the Davidson St. John's basketball game in Charlotte. Senior Brevard Wallace, the driver, was admitted to Memorial Hospital
in Charlotte, and has since gone home to Florence, S.C. to recuperate. Gayle Batson, '68, now a graduate student at
the University of Virginia, was also hospitalized. Michael Lunn, a foreign student from Great Britain, was treated for a broken
arm and released with a cast. Junior Danny McLawhorn was examined and released without treatment. He later found that he
had a sprained ankle and reported to the college infirmary. According to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr., who
arrived at the scene, the accident occurred about 10:50 when a car going south on U.S. 21 attempted to make
a left turn in front of Wallace's car. The driver of the other car has been charged with failure to
yield, Burts said.

WESTERN AUTO
LAY-AWAY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS
892-1496

NEED CASH FOR SCHOOL EXPENSES OR FOR FUN?

After World War II, American veterans returning from Europe brought home a large number of German war souvenirs. These souvenirs
were left in the veterans’ foot lockers and forgotten while others were given to friends and relatives. DO YOU HAVE
ANY OF THESE SOUVENIRS AT HOME, SUCH AS GERMAN DAGGERS, SWORDS, BAYONETS, HELMETS, UNIFORMS, FLAGS, MEDALS, OR OTHER SIMILAR ITEMS
FROM WORLD WAR II, THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO SELL? If you do, please send me a sketch or photograph
of any items that you desire to sell, along with a detailed description, showing all the markings and writings, as
well as what you will take for them. Write K. Ward, P.O. Box 1428, New Bern, North Carolina 28560. P.S.
CLIP THIS AD AND SHOW IT TO YOUR DAD AND HIS VETERAN FRIENDS!

Charlotte, said, "Although no exact statistics are available, we have...A sizable outbreak of illness in the Charlotte and Mecklenburg area.
The outbreak contains some Hong Kong flu, as well as ordinary flu and colds. Vaccine, according to Kamp, is not
available to the public, but is limited to the aged and special cases. He added that some hospitals in the
area have reported small blood shortages, but the problem seemed to be caused more by holiday breaks than flu. “I
anticipate reaching a peak very soon,” said Kamp. “Maybe in two or three weeks the whole thing will be over.”

January 10, 1968
Page Three

Student Wife Deals With Welfare Needs
By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

“Welfare for old people is the crying need of the nation.” That is how Mrs. Nancy Hazel, caseworker for Mecklenburg
County Welfare Department, summed up the urgency of her work. Mrs. Hazel, wife of senior Phil Hazel, has been working
in the Adult Public Assistance Office for two years. She first became interested in welfare work through her psychology major
in college.

Welfare’s most pressing problem is a shortage of volunteers on every level, Mrs. Hazel said. Even nursing homes are under-staffed,
and as a result, the patients have to be tied in chairs when there are not enough helpers to keep
an eye on them, she said. Mrs. Hazel is in charge of 200 clients, who are either too old to
work or unable to find a job because of physical disability. Some of these people have been on welfare for
10 years. Though the welfare office tries to find jobs for them, there are few jobs open for those with
severe physical disabilities.

Mrs. Hazel is now working with the government housing project in the Double Oaks section of Charlotte. “We’ve just been
trying to get some transportation to take these old people to the Mall. They almost never think of even leaving
their neighborhood.” Most volunteers go into welfare programs for children. She expressed hope that Davidson fraternities could be enlisted to
drive local welfare recipients to and from the grocery stores.

Chairmen Picked For Commissions

All five of President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.'s advisory commissions have met in organizational meetings and elected chairmen. Dean of
Students Richard C. Burts Jr. was elected chairman of the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities in a meeting of that group
held before Christmas. Professor Jon Fuller was elected secretary. According to James Parks, a member of the commission, the group
decided initially to study the problem of how to get more black students on the Davidson campus.

The Commission on Church Relationship elected Dr. Daniel O. Rhodes its chairman and Scott Woodmansee, college chaplain, as its secretary.
Students William Brown and Tom Norwood said that the commission wants to study the nature of the church relationship situation
here at Davidson and explore the possibilities and implications of both strengthening and weakening that relationship.

In a meeting before Christmas, the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics decided that its members should read a collection of background
literature before making a proposal on the athletic situation at Davidson, according to Dr. Locke White. Trustee John Belk was
elected chairman of the commission and Dr. Anthony S. Abbott was elected secretary.

Elected chairman of the Commission on Coeducation was Dr. Neil McGeachy, a trustee, and Pat Bray was elected secretary. According
to Joe Murphy, a member of the commission, the commission is almost unanimously in favor of coeducation at Davidson and
has divided into subcommittees to study the individual problems involved in implementing it here.

C. Shaw Smith was elected chairman of the Commission on Social Patterns with Peter Hobbie serving as secretary. The commission
has decided to concentrate on the social situations existent in the dormitories, fraternities, and the union, according to Hobbie. The
goal of the commission, said Hobbie, is to create a social system which will afford every Davidson student equal social
opportunities. All five of the commissions are planning to meet again within the next few weeks.

Let us freshen your impression
Bring us your suits and shirts
Jackson Cleaners
Depot St.
Just beyond The Coffee Cup

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73, 4 miles from Davidson

NANCY HAZEL
... concern for the aged

Welfare recipients in Davidson are given only $105.50 per month. Sixty dollars goes for shelter and utilities, $33.50 for food
and clothes, and $10 for medical expenses. In addition, they can buy prescription medicines for just a dollar, and hospital
care is free. “Increased social security doesn’t help these people,” Mrs. Hazel said. As soon as social security checks go
up, she said, welfare payments come down by the same amount.

Mrs. Hazel emphasized the role of private charities and individuals. She said that North Mecklenburg churches are more generous with
their financial support than with their time. Mrs. Hazel hopes to get church women to volunteer to “just come and
talk with these old people every once in a while.” She said people are more willing to talk with children
but are hesitant to spend the same time with old people.

Flournoy Tours Czechoslovakia
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

Christmas vacation is when you go home to be with your family for Santa's visit, right? Wrong. Skiing in Austria,
a visit to Czechoslovakia, a glimpse of the Pope, and New Year's in Rome was the holiday agenda for freshman
Joe Flournoy, his seven brothers and sisters, two sisters-in-law, and parents.

It all started last summer as just another skiing trip. The large family from Columbus, Ga., had first tried it
last year in Amsterdam. Then Soviet Russia invaded Czechoslovakia and the Flournoys expanded their plans. “We'd never been behind the
Iron Curtain before,” said Flournoy, “so we just decided to go.”

A Friday afternoon exam threatened flight plans because Flournoy's family left for Germany on Thursday. The academic powers-that-be had their
hands tied by faculty regulations but the airline's more flexible schedule allowed him to get to Europe quickly.

“East Germany was ugly,” Flournoy said of his two days there, noting that “all the improvements were right next to
the wall; the further you get from the Berlin Wall, the worse it becomes.” “Sort of a gloom hung over
the city,” Flournoy said, recalling his two days in Prague. “The Czech people were really disheartened,” he said, adding that
“when they found out we were Americans, they acted very friendly.”

Asked if the Soviet occupation worried his family, Flournoy said, “There wasn't a war over there - just some student
protests.” After a short visit to Vienna and five days of skiing at Kitzbuehl, the Flournoys boarded their train to
Florence only to discover they had the wrong train in a country whose trains are always on schedule. Moments later,
recuperating from their near miss, a young man introduced himself to the Flournoys as Davidson junior John Puckett, who is
studying in Germany with the Junior Year Abroad program.

Flournoy had an unplanned addition to his New Year's Eve celebration. When returning to his hotel, he was confronted by
picketers who had been chanting “Ho Chi Minh” at the American embassy across from the hotel. Flournoy said that police
intervention interrupted his would-be assailants before anything serious happened.

On New Year's, Flournoy was plodding through the ruins of ancient Rome when he saw several limousines and a lot
of policemen and seconds later he caught a glimpse of Pope Paul. What can a family of 12 do to
top off such a Christmas trip? Their last 12,000-mile camping trip to Alaska was hard to follow. “We plan to
stay home next Christmas,” Flournoy said, but you get the idea that if the moon becomes a tourist spot, the
Flournoys will try.

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated
300 E. Morehead
Charlotte
Behind Contes Soda Shop

JUMBO BOX LUNCH - BOX
KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN
Go To!
.97 plus tax
6 Pieces Chicken
6 Rolls
$1.45 plus Tax
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, N.C.
