Buttrick To Teach In Winter Term

Dr. George A. Buttrick, a noted Presbyterian and Congregational minister, will be a visiting professor at Davidson for next year's
winter term, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced today. The president said he hopes to make Buttrick available to the
entire college community and not restrict him to any one department.

Minister of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York City from 1927-1954, Buttrick has written several books, including “God, Pain
and Evil” and “Biblical Thought and the Secular University.” He is currently professor of preaching at Northwestern University’s Garrett Theological
Seminary. Buttrick has previously taught at Harvard University and Union Theological Seminary in New York. Buttrick, who is 77, will
live in Davidson.

“We are very pleased that Dr. Buttrick, a long-time friend of Davidson College, will be with us next year, and
look forward to our associations with him,” Spencer said.

EPC (Continued From Page 1)

sen both felt that the program had been drawn up too quickly, coming as it did out of the early
May meeting at Montreat. “We didn’t want to rush things,” said Fredericksen. “If you move too hastily, you frequently make
only foolish progress.”

“One important accomplishment is that we did manage to get this thing considered in such a short time,” said Clodfelter.

Rights Bill Goes On To Faculty

A year and a half after student adoption, the student Bill of Rights may get faculty approval Thursday. The Student
Life Committee has given its approval to a revised form of the bill and recommended that the faculty approve it.
Included in the rights, which is part of the student constitution, are provisions that:

—Permit demonstrations which do not disrupt the regular and essential operation of the college;
—Allow students to close their academic and/or personal records to persons outside the college;
—Require that “educational policy and academic and non-academic regulations be formulated and applied with significant student participation;”
—Open an appeal process for students challenging academic evaluations;
—And guarantee freedom of speech and press.

The recommended version is the same as printed in the Wildcat Handbook, except for parts seven and nine which were
deleted by student vote this spring.

Clodfelter attacked the committee’s decision to recommend that no faculty member be allowed to advise more than one project. “That
may well rule out a lot of projects which the faculty members are now willing to take on,” he said.
However, Williams said that the committee did not think the professors would have enough time to advise on more than
one project and perform their other duties.

“We also thought it would not be fair to the faculty members to ask them to put in so much
extra time on something for which they would not be paid, particularly on what the committee felt was a low
priority item,” Williams said.

Academic Prizes Given At Banquet

Academic awards were presented to selected students at a special luncheon ceremony which replaced the traditional assembly. Robin Gottfried received
the A.K. Phifer Scholarship and Charles Eakes won the Wall Street Journal Award, both given for excellence in economics. David
Bell was designated the outstanding student of French for 1968-1969. The Columbia University Teachers College Book Prize was awarded to
Whit Morrow. The Drama department cited two for their work in productions this year. Tim Gailey received the Raleigh Turner
Drama Award and Joe Gardner received The Drama Award. Richard Neely received the David Halbert Howard Jr. scholarship which is
awarded toa rising senior studying chemistry who has shown promise of high attainment in some field requiring extensive knowledge of
chemistry. The Davidsonian

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING."
Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON, Editors-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1969

Restrictions That Strangle

"The Davidson student is now far better prepared for flexible and challenging programs than ever before," according to Dean of
Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, as quoted in the Reference Catalog, Page 14. "The raw material for an exciting intellectual adventure
is on our campus. The task of the future at Davidson is that of developing the full potential of such
human material." Well said. Now let the statement be honored. Let the faculty approve the Experimental College concept in pilot
form for next year. It is just a pilot program, and is certainly worth a try.

But it would be unfortunate if the proposal goes through in the form that the Educational Policy Committee approved, because
the restrictions which the EPC added to the proposal virtually strangle it. The program has involved freshmen to a great
extent so far, but the requirement that two area exams be passed before entering the program eliminates the freshmen. Stating
that the students could not be excused from "regular academic requirements" is contradictory. The whole idea of ExCo waves aside
the concept of regular academic requirements. The policy should read, "The student will be excused from regular academic requirements as
the occasion warrants, with permission of the faculty board and his major department, if major requirements are involved."

However, the proposal becomes laughable at the point where it reads: "The student will pay full tuition and fees and
dormitory charges for four years even if part of his project takes him away from the campus." So much for
scholarship students entering the program. The cost is prohibitive — and an obvious money-grab by the college. It is amazing
enough that someone had the nerve to put the proposal on paper, but the EPC’s approval of it is shocking.
With tuition and fees rising by $200 a year, year after year, an additional burden like this is not acceptable.
The basic concept is just what Davidson needs, but a pilot program with restrictions like these will go over like
a lead balloon. The faculty could well improve the proposal by a close examination of these restrictions, with an eye
to dropping quite a few of them when it meets Thursday.

Vote Down Code Revision

Those revisions in the Code of Responsibility need to be voted down. The most serious problem is the rewrite of
the dormitory search section to limit the section’s application to college personnel. Students need protection from an overzealous Investigating Committee
just as much as from snooping security officers. It makes little difference who plays policeman.

Next, the revisions are simply shoddy work. They haven’t been thought through and show it. The civil authorities clause is
vague at best, and the statement on the new Court of Appeals leaves it unclear whether members continue to serve
after they lose Senate or Faculty Executive Committee seats.

Finally, the revisions dodge the two main issues which they should handle, including one that the Senate explicitly named to
be dealt with: drugs and campus disorders. Policies on both of these matters are either inadequate or vague.

This will be too late for the student vote, but we urge the faculty to refer the code revisions back
to committee Thursday.
