Would — You Believe... 
By MARSHALL FEASTER 
Sports Writer

That Was The Game That Was

Would you believe that last weekend was the homecoming that was supposed to be? Well, you better believe that it’s a good thing that it wasn’t. That's how poor the game was. The disappointment started with the trip to Williamsburg. This year the team only flies to two of the seven (how did we ever manage to get that many?) away ball games. We make the rest of the trips by chartered bus. The extensive use of chartered buses has been brought on, I imagine, by the much talked-about squeeze on athletic funds. I remember that when I came to school to film some pre-season drills, Coach Tom Couch told the boys at lunch one day to be sure and give him their youth fare cards. I could just see us flying stand-by to Texas; thoughts of the “dirty thirty” and less came to mind as I remembered some of the success I've had flying that way.

The trip to Williamsburg was one of those made by bus. Stand-by might have been better—some of the team might have been lucky enough not to have made it to the game on time. After the trip itself, things continued to get worse. We did, after all, have to play. William and Mary has a big team, and the Indians, as everyone knows, play a run-over-you type of offense. They ran over us for 300-plus yards. The embarrassing thing was that they continued to run over us in the same way, play after play. William and Mary wears uniforms just like the Green Bay Packers, and their end sweep was just about as effective as the Pack’s used to be. They even stayed on the ground in their late fourth-quarter touchdown drive. Their passing game, however, was a joke. The W&M head coach was quoted earlier in the week as saying that their quarterback, Wes Meeteer, was improving on his passing every week. That’s true—he now usually gets the ball to his receivers on the first bounce rather than on the roll.

If I understood our plan correctly, the coaches wanted to get on the board a couple of times early in the game, so that ever-improving Wes Meeteer would have to throw the ball. As it was, they didn’t have to throw, so we spent the afternoon preparing for Green Bay, which will be added to the schedule in the mid-70s. Our play wasn’t the only bad thing—it seemed that everything up there was second rate and nothing could go right for us. A referee managed to go for one fake by a William and Mary lineman in about the same way we went for fakes from Meeteer. When he saw the player lying on his back, he decided that the boy somehow must have been clipped. As a result, we lost ball possession. They even let W&M spend extra time in the dressing room during halftime. When Coach Smith complained, the answer he got was something like, “Well, after all, it is homecoming.”

I got pushed around too. I had to film on a rickety wooden platform up above the stands. True to the nature of our entire performance, the camera broke during the second half. When I opened it up to try to repair it, the film started flying out of it just like in the cartoons. I was on the W&M side of the field, and everyone started laughing at me. Matter of fact, they laughed so hard that they missed end sweep number 53. After the game, I had to go over to the Indian dressing room to check about getting some copies of the film that had been lost. As I milled around in the midst of blood, sweat, and tears, I heard one coach commenting to a reporter about the game. I was amused to hear him talk of how they had played so poorly and how our fine team had controlled the game. And after my exposure to the Davidson staff, I had begun to think the era of the dumb football coach had come to an end.

After getting dressed, the boys piled on the bus for the trip home. Ask any of them if the easiest travel on earth is with Trailways. They were pretty tired, somewhat disappointed, but glad to get out of Williamsburg—not only just to get out, but to get out alive with another victory. “We're 5-0, but we’re pitiful,” said one coach. Maybe so, but we are after all 5-0, and this is the year the Mets went all the way. Ticker tape anyone?

photo by (Staff Lyle)
GROUND GAME, DAVIDSON STYLE
John Zaharov runs against the Indians.

New-Look "Cat
October 24, 1969
Page Five

Bulldogs Host Davidson: Southern Title At Stake
By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

A trip to the Tangerine Bowl will be on the line tomorrow when the Davidson Wildcats travel to Charleston, S.C., to face The Citadel in a key Southern Conference contest. For the third week in a row, the ‘Cats will face the second place team in the conference. The Bulldogs are 2-1 in league play and 4-1 overall. The game promises to be one of the conference’s finest. Davidson's Gordon Slade, who ranks first in the conference, will face The Citadel’s Tony Passander.

Ruggers Face Rugged Schedule
By KEN JONES
Sports Writer

Although the Davidson rugby club has yet to win a match, the outlook and the appearance of the team are brighter than ever according to captain Zack Mobley. “We are in better shape physically and our fundamentals have improved greatly this fall," said Mobley, one of the founders of the Davidson club. “The tackling is improved and the contact is getting rougher.” Despite the rougher practices, the injuries which sidelined several starters last spring have put out only one regular this season. The new look in appearance is the new set of jerseys which the team received last week after a seven-month wait. The players are paying the cost of nine dollars for each while the team tries to solve its fiscal problems. Last year the team was turned down in their appeal for funds from the athletic department, but received a $350 grant from the Union fund. Of that $350, $200 has been received to date. The new jerseys failed to change the team’s luck last Sunday as the Wildcats fell to Clemson 19-6 at the Clemson field. “We played a good game,” Mobley said, “but we played too much of it on our side of the field. Our punting was too slow and we couldn't force them back. Also, the field was 25 yards wider than what we're used to.” Mobley singled out David Branch, Stuart Shelton, Tad Porter, and Al Wheen for outstanding performances in the game. The remainder of the schedule promises no soft touches. This weekend the club travels for a doubleheader with a Saturday game against Norfolk and a Sunday match at Old Dominion. The team will be playing without several starters who are out.

Wildkittens Topple Evans For Second Victory
By DICK DOWNEY
Sports Writer

Last Friday, the Davidson Wildkittens triumphed over Evans Business College, an obscure little school, by the seemingly decisive score of 21-8. However, Coach Gene McEver confided that his charges were lucky to win because Evans had control of the ball during most of the game. In fact, Evans ran 71 plays compared to Davidson's 52 plays. McEver said that the Wildkittens “just weren't built up for the game like they were for Richmond; and to make matters worse, Evans had a better team than we thought they would.” Considering the score, an unattached observer would find it hard to believe that Evans’ total offensive yardage was 303 yards, compared to only 206 yards for Davidson. The difference in the game was the Wildkitten defensive unit, which stopped Evans in several clutch situations. In fact, Evans didn't score their lone touchdown until the final quarter. McEver cited several defensive players for outstanding work in the game. Among them were Bill Garrett, a defensive guard; Jimmy Hardison, Michael Sikes, and David Mims, all linebackers; and Greg McCall, a defensive back. Mims, probably the smallest man on the defensive team, is also one of the most aggressive members of the Wildkittens. The outstanding offensive players were undoubtedly quarterback Scotty Shipp and end Andy Davis. Shipp passed 25 times with 10 completions and one 21-yard touchdown strike to Greg Cameron. Shipp's favorite target was Davis, who caught five passes for 61 yards. Davis has great potential to be an outstanding end or even a back for the varsity inthe coming years, according to McEver. McEver was highest in his praise of quarterback Shipp; he said that if Shipp continued to improve, he could possibly be the starting signal caller next year for the Wildcats. As for Shipp's punting game, McEver said that he “was already up there with the big boys." Shipp is averaging about 45 yards, and will probably be Davidson's next year. The frosh will meet West Carolina at Davidson Monday at 3 p.m. 

have commitments which prevent them from leaving for the weekend so the team will be going with many inexperienced players. The team plays its next home match against the powerful Atlanta club on November 9. Atlanta is regarded as one of the finest teams in the South. The following week they will again be at home, hosting Clemson. The team’s chances of defeating Clemson are definitely better on the narrow Davidson field. The final game of the season is another home game against the N.C. State B team. The game will be a tough one as the Wolfpack is regarded as one of the finest in the ACC.

ruggers home, who ranks third. Passander is considered the key man in The Citadel offense by Citadel Coach Red Parker. “Tony is good on the run-pass option,” Parker said. “He is ready for an excellent year. Tony is a fine leader, is tough, and has the confidence of his mates.” Passander has been throwing for good yardage throughout the campaign to a set of small, fast receivers, led by split end Tommy Sanchez. Sanchez led the Wildcats last season with 361 yards on 18 catches for four touchdowns, including a 34-yarder against the Th. The flankers are Gene Hightower and sophomore Champ Reiley. Hightower grabbed 19 passes for 287 yards and three scores. Reiley has “the best moves, the best hands, and the most desire on our club,” Parker said.

The Citadel defensive squad is, according to Parker, one of the big reasons for the success of the team this year. Leading the Citadel defense is John Small, a 255-pound linebacker. Small was injured most of last season after winning All-Conference, All-South Carolina, and honorable mention All-America honors his sophomore year. At the beginning of the season, Parker predicted that “if Small overcomes the series of injuries he had last year, he can be the finest linebacker in the country.” The Citadel ranks second to Davidson in defense and tops the conference in total offense. The team's flickering hopes for the Southern Conference crown rest on their next two outings as they meet the Wildcats tomorrow and then face the Richmond Spiders next week at Richmond.

The Wildcats, on the other hand, are enjoying their undisputed hold on first place following last week's 17-15 thriller over the Indians of William and Mary. William and Mary lived up to their reputation as a running ball club as they controlled the ball in the fourth quarter while rolling up over 350 yards rushing on the Davidson defense. Indian quarterback Wes Meeteer ran for 161 yards but could pass for only 26 as William and Mary ground out their yardage. Leading the defensive effort for Davidson were linebackers Robert Norris and Steve Butler, the defensive player of the week in the Southern Conference. Butler had 12 tackles and ten assists. While the Davidson defense was keeping the Indians out of the end zone, Gordon Slade used what little time the William and Mary ground game gave him to pass for over 160 yards. The Wildcats have their eyes on still another school record this week as they go after the mark for consecutive victories, now five, set in 1926.

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

CONFERENCE LEADER Kelly grabs another pass

Delts Topple Pikas, Sig Eps Win To Remain Unbeaten In IMAC

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

In the first battle of the undefeated, the Phi Delts edged the Pikas, 25-18, on Wednesday to bring their record to 6-0. The loss dropped the Pikas to third place behind the Delts and Sig Eps, also undefeated through Wednesday's games. The Delt-Pika clash was a battle of two teams which are very much alike. Both teams are very strong on defense and are only adequate offensively. The defenses forced both teams to punt several times and forced numerous interceptions. The difference in the final outcome was that the Delts were able to convert their interceptions into touchdowns, while the Pikas missed probable touchdowns on an interception and a punt return as passes went incomplete.

The Delts scored early, as they connected for a touchdown on their first drive on a pass from Bill Traxler to Jeff Chetwood. Traxler played a consistent if unspectacular game. He completed a high percentage of his passes, many of them to Chetwood. There were two other scores in the first half, and at that time the Delts led 13-6. Fred Kastner set up a punt return for a touchdown for the Pikas, and Jimmy Wright's interception gave the Delts their other first-half score.

In the second half, the score progressed to 13-12, then 19-12, 25-12, and finally to 25-18. The Pikas scored on a Blair Abee pass to Ray Swetenburg set up by a long pass to Clay Dorminey and on a long pass from Tom Hendren to Mark Affeldt. The Delts scored on a short pass to Greg Sikes and on an interception by Walter Sprunt. The Pikas regained the ball with a small amount of time left, but were unable to come up with the tying score. All in all, it was a well-played, exciting game. If a most valuable player had to be selected, it would be the Delt’s John McCammon. He played at linebacker and kept the Pikas from completing any passes to the center of the field.

In another very crucial game, the Sig Eps edged the KA’s 12-7, to remain undefeated. It was a game of strange plays. One of the SPE touchdowns resulted from an unusual interception when the ball was knocked from a KA ball carrier's hands. The SPE's had two touchdowns called back, both on correct but rare rulings. On one, a pass touched two offensive players and was called back, and on the other, one of the referees was searching for a lost ball, so the play had to be rerun.

After their loss to the SPE's, the KA’s bounced back with a win over the ATO’s, 21-13. Romey Fisher threw touchdown passes to Lou Williams and Roy Stuckey, and the KA’s also scored on a pass from Fisher to Rick Saunders to Steve Williams. In other games, the SAE’s routed the Independents, 33-7, and the Phi Gamms did the same to the Sigma Nus, 33-14, and the Phi Delts routed the ATO’s, 44-6. In the SAE victory, Charles Brockwell and David Branch were the offensive stars, and rusher Bob Meadows was the big man on defense.

CLOSE BUT NO CIGAR Roy Campbell drops pass while Herb Clegg defends.

The Phi Gamm strength came mainly on defense, as they scored three touchdowns on interceptions. Tailback Scott Nicholson played a steady game, while Roy Lane was outstanding at rusher. In all fairness to the ATO's, there were some extenuating circumstances which permitted the Delt romp. The Taus trailed only 13-6 at halftime, but their rusher received a shoulder injury just before the half, and the Delt tailback was able to get around the substitute rusher at will during the second half.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1818 W. Morehead

PIZZA THE LITTLE KITCHEN FINE FOODS Across from the Hospital Mooresville, N.C.

The Underground 4721 N. Tryon St. Entertainment Friday and Saturday FREE JAM SESSION SUNDAY 4-7 p.m. No Cover During Week Open 11 a.m. ‘til ?

THE ROOSTER TAIL 1600 Freedom Drive PRESENTS A Tuesday & Wednesday Special (Oct. 14-15) For $3.00 (Boys) or $1.50 (Girls) Hear The Fabulous FLAIRS And Have FREE Draft Beer And For This Weekend (Oct. 10-12): Calvin Lindsey & The Hysterics FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY The Embers The Uniques OPEN 7 p.m. til 12:45 a.m. Closed Mondays We Welcome Davidson Students