Page Six

Greeks’ Pledges Trained

By GEORGE ALLEN
Associate Editor

The culmination of Greek Week in the field day and regatta held yesterday at the lake campus promised fraternity initiation for several of the Davidson pledge classes. Greek Week is sponsored by the Interfraternity Council and, according to IFC Vice President Dave Wasserman, "was set up as a week of final activities for the different pledge programs, culminating in initiation at the end of the week."

Although the IFC encourages each pledge class to engage in a constructive service project during the week, the only activity directly sponsored by the IFC is the field day. Wasserman said that the traditional pledge class banquet was not held this year because of a "lack of enthusiasm among the fraternities for such an activity."

"Greek Week has become decentralized lately," Wasserman continued. "It has become more a province of each individual fraternity than an IFC-coordinated project. Greek Week should become more centralized," he said.

Honorary Selects 10 Freshmen

New members will be inducted into Phi Eta Sigma, freshman honorary fraternity, Monday. The ceremony will be held in Phi Hall at 5 p.m. The freshmen to be inducted are Lewis Thompson, Gary Scibal, John McMurray, Gene Williams, Bill Beckman, Danny Clodfelter, Tom Easterling, Paul McKenney, Bernard Scoggins, and Rick Vandewater. These freshmen were selected on the basis of scholastic excellence during the first term. They had to earn a grade point average of a 4.0 or better to qualify for the honor. In addition to the initiation, the members of Phi Eta Sigma will hold a general meeting for the election of officers.

April 4, 1969

A REVIEW

By JOHN PANCAKE
Staff Writer

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has not spent all of his life as president of small southern liberal arts colleges. He is also an author. One of his books is called "Booker T. Washington and the Negro’s Place in America." The book, like the subject, is somewhat outdated. It was written in 1955 and was part of a series aimed at the general reader who wanted to get a good look at an individual. The reputation of the individual Spencer chose has fallen on hard times.

In an interview, Spencer recalled with a smile an incident which occurred at Mary Baldwin College while he was president there. John Hope Franklin, the noted Negro historian and a good friend of Spencer's, was speaking to a group. During a question and answer session, a Mary Baldwin student asked Franklin what Booker T. Washington contributed to the civil rights movement. "Nothing," Franklin quickly replied.

The reason that few people today have kind words for Washington, Spencer points out, is that he was willing to "accept half a loaf as a means toward obtaining the whole loaf later." Spencer contends in his book that Washington was moving farther to the left as he grew older, but the fact remains that Washington was very much concerned with presenting the proper image to the white man. That image was not too different from Kipling’s Gunga Din.

After Theodore Roosevelt was elected in 1904, Washington, a firm Roosevelt supporter, said, "I shall urge our people everywhere to manifest their gratitude by showing a spirit of meekness and usefulness." As Spencer sees it, Washington's problem was that he put too much faith in the goodwill of Southern whites. "He bet on the wrong horse," Spencer said. "He put his faith in the noblesse oblige of the Southerners like Wade Hampton and assumed that they would remain in power." But even the patronizing attitude of men like Hampton disappeared. The Negro was not to have another friend "until the federal government moved into the field as the champion of civil rights." This move came about the time Spencer's book was published.

This new outlook is one of the major changes that has made for differences in the civil rights struggle in the last 15 years. The other major changes Spencer believes have taken place since he wrote his book are the shift in focus from a rural Southern movement to a nationwide urban movement and the Black separatist movement.

Spencer said of today's black militants, "If they represent an attempt to overthrow the American system, I do not agree with them." "I hope that we can produce within the American system a society in which men of all races, creeds, nationalities, and ethnic groups can be accepted on their merits, without consideration of their backgrounds."

Frolics Features Two Band Show

By GEORGE PARK
Staff Writer

Two groups, Ars Nova and Poco, will appear in concert here at 8 p.m. May 2, Friday of Spring Frolics. According to "Billboard," Ars Nova is one of the most original new groups in the rock music field. It features a totally electric heavy-beat string sound crossed with virtuoso jazz, baroque, and Latin music. The sextet, five of whom hail from New York's Mannes College of Music, features a wide range of talent. The group’s composer and rhythm guitarist, Wyatt Day, leads the group. He and Jon Pierson, a master of the bass trombone and several other instruments, are the only members that remain of the original group which cut an Elektra LP last year. Jimmy Owens on the cornet and trumpet completes the group's brass section, Sam Brown leads the guitar section. Art Koenig's bass and Joe Hunt's drums provide the group's "sturdy and thinking" beat.

The second attraction at the Friday night concert is Poco. According to the Agency for Performing Artists, their music has a country flair, but what it really is is American. All the influences are there — folk, rock, blues, and country. Poco is led by Richie Furay and Jim Messina, two members of the former Buffalo Springfield. Furay did much of the writing for the Springfield’s original tunes. He now writes, sings, and plays guitar for Poco. He also supervised Poco’s first album released recently under the Epic label. Rusty Young plays the steel guitar for Poco. George Grantham drums for the band. Randy Meisner is the group's bassist and, along with Richie, lead singer.

The Saturday night concert in Love Auditorium will feature folk song writer and singer Gordon Lightfoot, author of "Early Morning Rain."

Croom Finds Hardships In Stay In Isolated Antarctica

By STEPHEN ROADY
Staff Writer

Feel isolated atDavidson? Then consider John Croom, a senior, who as a member of a 40-man biological research team spent most of the winter quarter on Anvers Island, Antarctica, 600 miles south of the southern tip of South America. Croom described Antarctica as a bleak landscape with no vegetation whatever, save for some moss here and there along the coastline. Also, Croom said that the sky remained overcast during virtually his entire stay although the sun never completely set. Croom mentioned two big disappointments of his stay in Antarctica. The first came when his group's supply of beer, whiskey, and cigarettes ran out about two weeks after their arrival. The second occurred when an Argentine tourist ship proved to be loaded with old men and women rather than what the members of the research group, informed ahead of time of its arrival, had hoped for. Regular field trips proved interesting, though, and kept Croom busy most of the time. His most exciting experience took place when he was lowered into the crater of a volcanic island in order to take some water samples. The weather closed in and Croom might have been forced to spend the night on the trembling mass of land, but his helicopter was able to pick him up at the appointed time. The island erupted two weeks later. Despite the hardships, Croom said he enjoyed the work in Antarctica and plans to return to a different station there next year to continue his research.

Group Appraises Campus Writers
By GENE LINTON
Staff Writer

A group of Davidson students and faculty who are interested in the writing currently being done on campus met Tuesday evening at the home of Dr. Thomas O. Pinkerton for an informal reading and listening session. The session was one of a series sponsored by the English Department to encourage writing on campus, to provide a sympathetic audience for campus writers, and to provide an atmosphere for critical discussion of work being done. Heard at Tuesday night's session, according to Charles L. Cornwell, the faculty member in charge of setting up the sessions, were the first chapter of a novel, two short stories, and a number of poems. The group tries to meet approximately every two weeks. Cornwell said that the sessions are an attempt to fill a void left when Sigma Upsilon, an honorary writing fraternity, died out several years ago. Cornwell said that the sessions are an attempt to emphasize the writing which is going on at the present time—not writing done to fill initiation requirements.

Student Given Chance
By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

The Davidson junior facing narcotics and weapons charges is both in and out of court. Charged with possessing marijuana, the student has been bound over to the Rowan County Superior Court for trial in May. On charges of possessing concealed weapons (a knife and a gun), the student was given a “prayer of judgment.” This means that the case may be brought up again within the next three years if the student commits another violation but that the case will be dropped at the end of that period otherwise. The student was found guilty of possessing marijuana on campus. The Regulations Court sentenced him to a period of “disciplinary probation” for the remainder of his time at Davidson College with any further violation of the Code of Responsibility resulting in immediate expulsion from college.

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
Brown
Patterson
412 Concord

Outside Perspective
By DICK ANDERSON

Students Placed On Presidential Committee

Students at Duke University have joined Duke's faculty and trustees in a joint committee to find a successor to retiring President Douglas L. Knight. The committee will have a majority of trustees, with several students and faculty. This contrasts with the organization of the recent search for a successor to Davidson President Emeritus D. Grier Martin, in which there were three separate committees, one drawn from each of the three groups. Each committee winnowed through the lists of candidates, but several students claimed that the students' group was not being listened to, although they did concur in the selection of President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

Elmira Tries Coed Week, Too

Elmira College recently held a co-education week not dissimilar to the proposed Davidson-Randolph Macon student exchange. Elmira, a girls' school in Elmira, N.Y., invited 120 men students from seven nearby schools to stay on campus for one week. The students stayed in an evacuated wing of one dorm, which meant that the dormitory was co-educational for that week. Participants said that the co-educational dormitory was one of the best parts of the program, since students and visitors were able to congregate in the lounge and “form worthwhile relationships on a person-to-person, intellectual basis.”

Harvard Initiates Radicalism Courses

Harvard University has instituted two courses on radicalism entitled Social Change in America and Radical Perspective on Social Change. Both courses are taught by students and visiting teachers in a discussion format that avoids the use of what the Harvard professor who originated the program termed “the false intellectual authority of a podium.” There are 633 students taking the courses, making them the second most popular courses at Harvard, and attendance is near 100 percent, but the faculty has objected to them on the basis it has insufficient control over the content and methodology of the courses. Student reaction to the faculty attitude took the form of a meeting of 500 students to request that the courses be retained.

HEW Moves Against All-Black Programs

The Health, Education and Welfare Departments have decided to move against all-black dormitories and study programs on college campuses. HEW announced it will use its power to withhold federal funds from schools (under the 1964 Civil Rights Act) to attack “black only” college activities. First hit by this ruling was Antioch in Ohio, which runs a black studies program and dormitory, each open only to black students and taught by black professors.

Hofstra Students Attack Slater ARA

Slater Food Services are under attack at another university. Hofstra University has set up a Food Committee to hear student complaints against the Slater service. A recent article in the Hofstra Chronicle, the student newspaper, pointed up several complaints against the food service. These included cold food, chopped meat dishes adulterated with bread, and dirty eating utensils. Slater also serves the Davidson College Union cafeteria.

Continuous Service Begun At Winthrop

At Winthrop College another food service, the SAGA service, has instituted continuous service. Breakfast is served from 7:15 to 10:30, lunch from 10:30 to 4:30, and dinner from 4:30 to 6:15. Students will carry pictured ID cards, and there will be no restrictions on the number of times a student may eat.

Clemson Trustees’ Vote Ends Compulsory ROTC

Clemson University’s Board of Trustees abolished compulsory ROTC last week in favor of a voluntary program, bringing an end to required military service for the first time at the one-time military school. The resolution goes into effect for students entering after the 1969-1970 school year. The resolution approved by trustees read:

“That the Board approve in principle the deletion of the mandatory requirement for students to take two years of ROTC as a condition precedent to graduation, effective at the end of the academic year 1969-70.

“And that the administration be directed and authorized to determine actions required to implement this policy and such implementing actions as soon as determined.”

Spencer (Continued From Page 1)

... will have good housing.” On self-scheduled exams, the president said, “My interpretation of the faculty action would be that it pretty well defeated the question of self-scheduled exams. But that led them into a discussion of exams in general, and there they said go back and study the whole question of exams. I’m not sure the discussion in the committee would even bring up self-scheduled exams. But if it did come up, it would be appropriate, I suppose.”

Fraternities going local would be eligible for loans from the college to replace nationally owned furniture, said Spencer. He also offered any assistance the administration could provide, including possible legal advice were it necessary.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St.
Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-149