Page Four January 10, 1969

The Davidsonian

1969 IMAC Basketball Has Balance, Strength

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The 1969 IMAC basketball league will be one of the best balanced in recent years. It is highly unlikely that any team will be undefeated, and at least four teams have an excellent chance to win the championship. The Phi Delts, Sigma Nus, Pikas, and Kappa Sigs are all in the running for the title. The following is a preseason analysis of these four teams and the rest of the teams in the league in their predicted order of finish by the Berry Poll.

Phi Delts
The Phi Delts should perhaps be given a slight edge for the title because of their winning tradition, a corps of returnees from last year's 12-0 team, and a strong group of sophomores. The Delts will be strong in the front and back courts. In the front line, Gene Early, Ed Dobbs, John McCammon, Terry Esterkamp, Tom Way, and Ray Logan will provide rebounding and inside shooting. The Delts will also have one of the best backcourts in the league in Jim May, Jack Caldwell, and Garth Hampton. Others who will see action are Cliff Duke and George House.

Sigma Nu
Experience is the word to describe the Sigma Nus. They return most of their team which finished third last season. The Nus are led by Bruce Weidner, Steve Hayes, and Toby Westmoreland. At center will be coach Calvin Murphy, the first Negro coach in the league's history. The other starter will probably be either John Oliver or Tom Skinner. Others who will see action are George Armstrong, Dale Vash, Clark Nickerson, and Keith Sykes. The Nus' only problem seems to be a lack of depth, although Weidner’s knee is a question mark and Hayes may have to miss several games because of a job.

Pikas
The Pikas are a very young team, predominantly sophomores and juniors. Depth will be a big asset, as coach Davis Liles has about 12 men who can start. Mark Affeldt, Liles, Joe Lansinger, Brian Smith, Tom Hendren, and Pat Bray are possible front line starters, while Jack Ballenger, Dave Buck, Gary Cash, Fred Kastner, Bobby Sanders, and Floyd Strand challenge for the guard positions. Says Liles of this year's chances, “The teams in the league should be the best ever this year, and if our sophomores come through, we should finish near the top.”

Kappa Sigs
The Kappa Sigs have size and speed and should challenge for the league title. The top players are Gordon Slade, Bob Niebauer, Bill McKenzie, Peter Boggs, Mike Kelly, Cooper Brantley, coach William Brown, Terry Millar, Al McGraw, Doug Crisp, and Dave Troxler. The team was hurt by the loss of Gary Hemric, who is out because of a shoulder operation. Brown also noted the toughness of the league. “There are six teams in this league any one of which can beat the other. We are hoping for a finish in the top four.”

Sigma Chis
The Sigma Chis will have a presentable team, but lack the overall speed and shooting ability to be a real contender. Board strength will be one of their strong points, with Jeff Pflugner and Jim Long anchoring the front line. Other players who will see considerable action are Edgar Exum, Pete Norton, Herb Clegg, John Saunders, and Doug Haynes.

Betas
If any team is led by one individual, it is the Betas, who will depend on Johnny Baker. Baker describes the team as ‘deep in mediocrity,” but they should not be discounted, especially with his presence. They should finish somewhere near the middle of the pack, although they have the potential to beat any team in the league on a given night. Besides Baker, the squad consists of Ed Terry, Bill Gammon, Henry Marrow, Mike Culbreth, Jay Bowen, Macki Reavis, Charles Cowsert, Hunter Rice, and Doug Clark.

Phi Gamms
The Phi Gamms have muscle and some speed and shooting ability. However, they do not have enough of either of the latter to break into the top four. Mike Mikolayunas and Barry McLean anchor the more than ample front line, while Charlie Parks will be the big man in the backcourt. Others who will see action are Mike Bumgardner, Gary Deanhardt, Bob Apgar, Tate Sterrett, Johnny Bryan, Roy Lane, Jim Buchanan, Jerry Dean, Jeff Brantley, and “hatchet men” Sean McCormick and Ken Totherow. Unfortunately for the Gamms, Ricky Snipes remained on the varsity basketball team too long to be eligible for intramural play.

ATO's
The ATO's will feature speed, depth, and sophomores. Coach Jim McDowell

SPORTS DESK
BOB DUNHAM

“Toughies” From Way Back

At the outset of the current basketball season, Lefty Driesell announced that this year’s edition of Wildcat basketball would face the toughest schedule any Davidson team had ever faced. And a glance at the schedule verified the fact that the schedule was tough. Still, some people were skeptical about the label of “toughest” being attached, so we decided that we should check the record books in an effort to appease either Lefty or the disgruntled fans. We began to search for the teams which in their badness contributed to the toughness of this year’s schedule.

We were immediately disappointed, because the record books go back only as far as 1907-08 (the season in which J. W. Rhea was coach and W. W. Pharr was captain), and that season the results of the games were unrecorded. It can only be assumed that the opponents were exceedingly tough, and J. W. and W. W. were too embarrassed to record the unfavorable results.

The next year the long season came to an end with a disappointing 1-3 record, a year in which the Wildcats lost to Trinity and Wake Forest, defeating only Guilford.

But the tough seasons never really appeared until 1911, the year which saw the initiation of the intense rivalry between Davidson and the Charlotte YMCA. After splitting a pair of contests that year, neither team was ever able to establish a substantial advantage in series competition. Other YMCA competition was subsequently added, coming from Statesville, Asheville, Winston-Salem, and Concord. But Davidson was not satisfied with the level of competition, so in 1914 captain Tom Somerville and the rest of the Wildcats took on the toughest opponent of the decade, the Statesville YWCA. The team from Statesville, however, provided little competition, and one team member was led to comment after the 39-21 victory that they played “like a bunch of girls.”

The 1920s saw the advent of the series between Davidson and the service (that is, service clubs, not service academies). In those years, when F. W. Hengeveld was coach, Davidson added to its schedule the teams from the Durham and Lynchburg Elks Clubs. It might be noted that Davidson was completely outclassed in these contests, losing 37-23 to Lynchburg and 49-33 to Durham in the initial outings, unable to overcome the tough pressing defense which these teams employed.

In the years of Coaches Monk Younger and Flake Laird, the Wildcats branched out into the realm of the tougher opponents, facing such “toughies” as the Carolina Monograms, the Barium All-Stars, the Atlanta Jewish Program Club, the Statesville Spirals, Groves Thread, and Unique Furniture. But the most significant addition was the inclusion of the team from the Statesville A.A., a game which one player described as a “sobering experience, in spite of the Statesville team’s shaky method of play.”

The years of Coach Norman Shepard brought in competition from Hanes Hosiery, the U. S. Rubber Company, Carlton Mills, the Shelby Lions, J. O. Jones (pretty much a one-man team), Morris Field, Duke Power, and the McCrary Eagles. As late as 1935, the Eagles were still hampering Davidson. They won in that year, 100-71. Indeed, if it hadn’t been for such Davidson stars as Dean Rusk, who led the 'Cats to an 8-8 season in 1930-31; Grier Martin, who was high scorer the next year; Footsie Cowan, conference second-highest scorer in 1940; and Ed White, who captained the team to two winning seasons (in a row), Davidson's basketball past might have been very bleak (or at least bleaker).

However, it appears that Lefty was right. This season’s opponents might be tougher than those in the past. Still, it might be fun to take on the Statesville YWCA at least once more.

“Maybe if she cuts her hair we can keep her”

Lefty Plans For Coeds, Recruits Oklahoma Girl

Davidson's basketball program jumped the gun on coeducation last month, and now all of the coaches are looking to each other for an explanation. The case in question involves Coach Lefty Driesell, Assistant Coach Terry Holland, a basketball brochure, and a basketball player from Oklahoma. The player is a girl; the brochure was a recruiting brochure; and the blame seems to be on Holland.Brochure and recruiting letter went out from Davidson to Toni Beckham, of Lindsay, Okla., and Holland is still trying to remember who handed him the recommendation for the sophomore star of the Lindsay High Leopardettes. “Toni sure sounded like a boy to me,” Holland said. “I don't remember who made the recommendation. But somebody did make one — and a fairly strong one — or we wouldn't have made a contact.”

Miss Beckham said that she was flattered by the letter until she read the part which labeled Davidson as an all-men's school. “This is probably the only offer I'll get,” she said. “I don't know why I was mistaken for a boy unless it was my long hair.” The coaches have said nothing in regard to whether Miss Beckham is still being considered for scholarship offers, but strangely enough, Driesell received a letter from Lindsay coach Charles Heatly, who confirmed her ability and listed her as the best girl player in the school's history. With Davidson's recent interest in the possibilities of coeducation, perhaps by the time Miss Beckham is a senior a follow-up letter would be in order. Until then, perhaps Miss Beckham has a few male friends who might be interested. Driesell hopes so.

Davidson has a fair supply of talent, but little experience to choose from. Those vying for starting positions will be Brad Danielson, Mark Baker, Jim Hawkins, Mort Childs, Bill Clark, Ted Woods, Larry Flynn, John Durham, Garee Thomas, Bill Reeves, Ken Hill, and McDowell. When asked about his squad McDowell said, “The motto of the team is: When you are green you are growing; when you are ripe, you are rotten.”

KA’s
The KA’s have quickness and shooting ability, but lack anyone who can effectively compete for rebounds, and that will be their downfall. Players who will play considerably are George Hannen, Danny White, Lou Williams, John Chalk, Jim Crouse, Frank Gray, Pat Whalen, and Roy Stuckey.

SAE’s
Coach Rusty Mickler expects his SAE forces to be “much improved” over their poor showing of last season. If he can get all his players to show up for the games, the SAE’s may indeed improve. The top players are K. D. Weeks, David Hubbard, Bob Meadows, Charles Brockwell, Lynn Himes, and Tom Morrill. Others who will play are Dwight Etheridge, Steve Butler, Teddy Ravenel, Sammy Davis, Ed Dannelly, Mickler, and “hatchet man” Lew Homer.

Sig Eps
The Sig Eps hope to improve on their 3-9 record of last season, but with the strength of the league what it is, that hope will probably not be fulfilled. The Sig Eps’ only board strength lies in Kent Rhodes, and he cannot handle the whole rebounding load alone. They should be well set in the backcourt with Fletcher Hartsell and Wade Shepherd. Others who will see action are Dave Shepler, George Steele, Gary Sigmon, Marvin Bethune, Rob Hoy, John Bruner, and Dan Spencer.

Indies
If the Indies can overcome their problems of lack of size, talent, and organization, they may win a few ball games. As it is, with Bob Peel their only really outstanding player, they will probably beat only the Pi Kapps. Other possible players for the Indies are Bill Funderburk, George Purvis, Luther Moore, Don Sewell, Phil Hazel, Biff Fine, Jim Trevathan, John Hanselman, Roger Duvall, Mark Thompson, Bill Shutt, John Reisner, Dick Anderson, Ken Hayes, and Ray English.

Pi Kapps
It looks as though the Pi Kapps will duplicate their last-place flickerball finish in basketball. There is always the possibility of an upset, but in all frankness, they will be lucky to win even one game. As a result of their probable finish, the team has decided to play for fun. The members of this “Laugh-In” squad are Jim Smoak, John Neely, Lewis Tabb, Jim McNair, and Bob Wrenn.

Cook Wins
During the Christmas holidays, Davidson's Wildcats toppled five foes en route to a number two ranking by the Associated Press and United Press International. The following is a brief description of each of those games.

RICHMOND
After a week's lay-off for exams, the Wildcats traveled to Richmond and had to resort to a freeze to preserve a 62-60 victory. The decision to freeze came with 4:18 left in the game, and Richmond didn't come out of its tight zone defense until 40 seconds were left in the ball game. A frantic shot at the buzzer by Richmond’s Picot Frazier glanced off the rim, and the game was Davidson's. Mike Maloy led Davidson with 20 points.

SOUTH CAROLINA
In a closely fought contest (both on and off the court), Davidson stretched its winning streak to five games with a 62-55 victory over USC’s Gamecocks. A capacity crowd of 11,666, dominated by South Carolina fans, saw Jerry Kroll erupt for 23 points to lead the victory. The game was marred by a fight near the end of the game, when the USC bench emptied onto Doug Cook after an elbow-throwing spree began on the court.

MARYLAND
Davidson played the role of favorite in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament and jumped off the first night to an 83-69 victory over Maryland. Maloy was once again the show stopper for Davidson as the junior pumped in 25 points and went up for 15 rebounds, while managing to block a number of Terp shots. Maryland was led by Will Hetzel, brother of Davidson All-American Fred, as he threw in 17 points.

TEXAS
Mike Maloy earned his second straight Most Valuable Player award from the CIT the next night as his 28-point performance led Davidson to a 98-76 rout of the University of Texas. Texas surprised the disappointing crowd the previous night by upsetting favored Wichita, but the shorter squad was unable to handle Davidson in the final round.

MICHIGAN
The weather in Ann Arbor was below freezing, but Davidson's shooting was red hot as the ‘Cats exploded early in the second half to run away from the Michigan Wolverines, 94-82. Doug Cook led the way for the Wildcats with 29 points, aided by Kroll’s 22 and Maloy’s 20. Cook was a major factor in the early half break-away, as the ‘Cats pulled away from a 47-40 halftime advantage to lead 70-47 after only eight minutes of the second half. Cook poured in 19 of his points in the second half.

All-South Soccer Selects Peterson
Sophomore Roger Peterson was named this week to the All-South soccer team, as Davidson fall sports continued to place players on post-season honors teams. Peterson was named as a right outside on the team, which was selected by the soccer coaches in NCAA District 3. He was the only player from Davidson named to the team. A second-year letterman as a sophomore this season, Peterson is expected to miss next season because of his participation in the junior year abroad program.

Peterson's selection was the most recent for Davidson in post-season fall honors. Earlier all-conference, all-state, and all-American honors were awarded to football competitors. Quarterback Gordon Slade and end Mike Kelly were named to the All-Southern Conference first team, and were selected by the Associated Press as honorable mention all-Americans. Named as honorable mention on the all-Southern Conference team were linebacker Lewis Homer and defensive back Whit Morrow. Two freshmen were honored by the Greensboro Daily News when the News selected its all-state freshman squad. Gregg Sikes was picked at split end, and Mac McLaughlin was named at defensive tackle.

WANTED: Men and women to train for Civil Service examinations. We prepare men and women age 18-55, no experience necessary. Grammar school education usually sufficient. Permanent jobs, no layoffs. Short hours, high pay and advancement. Stay on present job while training. For a list of jobs and salaries send name, address, phone number and time at home. If rural give directions to home. Write to CISCO TRAINING SERVICE P. O. Box 65, Blairs, Va. 24527

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
ROBERTS COMPANY ... a major international manufacturer of textile machinery based in Sanford, N. C. with facilities also in Greenwood, S. C., Belgium, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom and sales offices throughout the world may have the opportunity for you. Young men with any college degree are urgently needed. A variety of stimulating growth opportunities are immediately available. For further information about Roberts Company and its growth potential, contact Henry G. Hall, Employment Manager, ROBERTS COMPANY, SANFORD, N. C. 27330. Roberts will be recruiting on campus January 13, 1969.