THE WHY OF LARRY BROWN (See Page Three) Will he Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1969 RINGS ‘N THINGS (See Page Four) NUMBER TWENTY-NINE 207 Freshmen Begin Catharsis Amidst the awe at the rejuvenated freshman dormitories and the confusion of class schedules, 277 freshmen struggled through a week of orientation before beginning their academic catharsis this week. Awaiting them when they arrived was a revamped orientation schedule, which included a mandatory freshman camp and other assorted introductions to campus life. According to Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, 20 percent of this year’s freshmen are from outside the South--a notable increase over past years. 29 states and Canada are represented. For the first time this fall, the YMCA-sponsored Freshman Camp at Camp Thunderbird in South Carolina was made mandatory. In the past, the camp provided an optional opportunity to meet other freshmen. Criticism had mounted, however, saying that much of orientation in past years overlapped what was said and done at freshman camp, so this year it was made an integral part of the orientation program. Keynote speaker at the camp this year was Dr. Don Wardlaw, professor of homiletics at Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Ga. Wardlaw had spoken also at last year's camp and at a chapel program two years ago at Davidson. He spoke twice during this year’s camp on the theme of “What It Means To Be a Sexual Person,” stressing the importance of a total body and soul sexual relationship. During his talks, Wardlaw criticized “distorted sexuality” and the image of “the Marlboro male,” which he said were false attempts at realization of the American dream male. Citing manliness as an admirable trait, Wardlaw called for more sensitivity in males, adhering to the philosophy of “loving people and using things.” The first week's activities were capped off Saturday evening with a mixer with Queens College. Tomorrow evening, girls from Converse will come for another mixer with the Davidson freshmen. (Staff Photos by Davidson) WEARIED ATTENTION SPAN Freshman prefers news over orientation talk. Freshmen Majority Joins ROTC Ranks By DAVID SWEATT Associate Editor Over 50 percent of Davidson's new freshmen have enrolled in the Army ROTC’s basic course. Formerly compulsory, the two-year basic course was made optional by vote of the college's board of trustees last May. At the completion of registration for the ROTC, 146 freshmen had registered for the ROTC program, according to the registrar's office. Col. Virgil Foster, Professor of Military Science this term, said the number enrolled “will make a very fine unit as far as I'm concerned.” Registration followed presentation of a program on the advantages and disadvantages of ROTC. Conducted during the two-day orientation at Camp Thunderbird, the agenda included six officers from the ROTC department, economics professor Dr. Randall R. Kincaid and senior Sam Johnson. “We had a very healthy discussion out at camp,” said Foster, adding that the ROTC cadre “made a factual presentation of the pros.” Primary among the advantages emphasized, according to Foster, is the possibility of getting delays for graduate school. He noted that 92 percent of last year's graduating seniors received graduate delays. Kincaid spoke on the practical alternatives to ROTC at the request of Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. He discussed officer programs in the other services, possible changes in the world situation, and possible changes in the military draft. Johnson was asked to present his views on moral objections to enrollment in ROTC. He discussed the employment of the United States military in recent years. Disagreeing with much the military has been used for, Johnson said, “If you don't agree with the military, I don't see how you can justify being in ROTC.” Asked about revisions in the ROTC curriculum, Foster said, “Yes, we're going to do some things.” Juniors will not participate in drill but will form a special junior company. The object of the move, according to Foster, is to improve Davidson cadets’ performance at summer camp. Sophomores will fill the positions in the Cadet brigade formerly held by juniors. “We're not making any big, radical changes,” added Foster. “But we're going to try to work out any individual problems that arise.” Anderson Leaves McEver Resigns Town Commission Post By DAVID GRISSETT Asst. Managing Editor Member of the Board of Town Commissioners, Gene McEver, resigned late in August, and was replaced by Davidson mathematics professor John T. Kimbrough. McEver, who was first elected to the board in 1949, resigned to accept a part-time post as public works superintendent for the town. Mayor Tom Sadler said, “The town is very fortunate to have Mr. McEver accept this position. He has invaluable experience and knowledge of the needs of the town. He is also well known to and has worked closely with the men who handle the business of maintaining our street, water and light systems.” “At the same time we regret very much losing Gene from the board, where he has earned the respect and gratitude of the town for his service over the years.” Mayor Sadler added that McEver had to resign his place on the board in order to accept the post as superintendent of public works to meet the requirements of the law concerning town employment. The superintendent's position pays $3,600.00 as a part-time post. Hobbie Supports War Moratorium ByBOB DUNHAM
Editor-in-Chief

Student Body President Peter Hobbie will request next week that students and faculty at Davidson College join in their support of a nationwide war moratorium on Oct. 15. Hobbie is one of over 500 national campus leaders helping to organize the Vietnam moratorium, which is an effort by a student group to demonstrate to the administration the tragedy of the Vietnam war. The student call for a Vietnam moratorium was issued on July 4 and has gained the support of numerous colleges and universities, and has the endorsement of the National Americans for Democratic Action and the National Student Association.

The moratorium calls for students, faculty members, and concerned citizens to stop work on Oct. 15 and spend the entire day in protest and contemplation of the Vietnam war. Hobbie said that the Davidson effort would consist of three main parts: a morning speaker, a faculty forum, and a worship service in the evening. Other campuses have much more elaborate plans scheduled, but Hobbie said that the day at Davidson would be primarily a day for soul searching.

“We are not so much boycotting classes,” Hobbie noted. “Rather, we are asking for joint faculty and student support for the suspension of classes. Instead of regular classes, we can hold discussions and forums on Vietnam,” he said. “Causing people to face the issue of Vietnam head-on will certainly out-value the loss of a day of classes.”

The nationwide call is for a solemn day of protest in awareness of the men who died in Vietnam. The protests will be low-keyed rather than active. The day, according to the coordinators of the program, would be the beginning of a widespread student protest of the war, which would include an enlarged and lengthened moratorium in November if there is no firm commitment to American withdrawal or negotiated settlement by Oct. 15. The student call for a moratorium has been joined by a similar faculty call, and they are being joined by calls from professional and community groups.

An editorial in this week's “New Republic” gives front-page support to the moratorium, saying “Richard Nixon has had eight months in which to pry loose from the trap in Vietnam and has not done it.” The magazine urges national leaders to “seize” the opportunity presented by the group. Faculty action on the call is expected here early next week.

Kimbrough formerly served consecutively on the board from 1959 to 1967. McEver says he will have a desk at the town hall and will spend much time outside the office maintaining liaison with the town crews. He hopes to establish some sort of regular office hours schedule. He says he will continue to work part-time as assistant football coach at Davidson College and maintain a few of his larger accounts as a service station supply agent.

McEver, who was formerly a running back at the University of Tennessee and earned a place on the all-time all-American football roster, came to Davidson as head coach of the Davidson football team, serving from 1936 to 1944. Over the years, he has also made a large place for himself in North End history by his contribution to youth sports. It was under his supervision that McEver Field was built. It is the site of not only much of the North End Youth Baseball play but also state and regional playoffs.

Bob Dunham has become the sole editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN as a result of the resignation during the month of August of co-editor Franklin Anderson. Anderson notified Dunham of his decision by letter and then relayed the information to the remainder of the paper staff. He said that the resignation came for “personal reasons” and was not the result of any conflicts within THE DAVIDSONIAN staff or of any outside pressure.

Dunham, a senior who served as news editor and sports editor before becoming co-editor, will serve alone in the editorship until his term of office expires in February. Dunham and Anderson were elected co-editors last February by vote of the Publications Board when no other candidates entered the race for editor. Anderson had served as managing editor prior to his election as co-editor. He received the D. Grier Martin Award for reporting as a freshman.

According to Dunham, there will be no major shifts in DAVIDSONIAN policy, although some changes will be made. “The loss of Franklin is a big blow to the paper,” Dunham said. “There are few people with the energy and capacity which he exhibited and the time he spent will be missed. However, the paper, like the college, is in the midst of change, and that renewal will not cease because of the resignation,” Dunham said. Dunham said that Anderson would continue to work for the paper but added that at Anderson's request, he would hold no staff position.

The newspaper was also hampered by the transfer of news editor Mark Hodges to Furman University. According to Dunham, Hodges decided at the last minute to attend Furman, in Greenville, S.C. instead of Davidson this fall. Dunham said that a reshuffling of staff positions and the addition of a new group of freshmen reporters would help alleviate the problems created by Hodges’ vacancy.

A BRAND NEW IDEA FOR RIPLEY'S
Belk Dorm shows results of last year’s lobbying.

Summer Dorm Renovations Adhere To RHA Guidelines

A $140,000 dormitory renovation project carried out during the summer produced welcome surprises for both freshmen and upperclassmen arriving at Davidson for the fall term. According to Tom Opie, president of the Residence Hall Association, the project grew out of recommendations from the RHA last spring and out of a meeting between RHA officials Ran Coble and Tom Opie with Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college. Funds for the project were allocated by the trustees at their meeting last spring.

Improvements throughout the dorms included new beds everywhere except Duke and Richardson, new lounges for the freshmen dorms, the redecorating of existing lounges with new carpeting and furniture, several water coolers, and a new fire alarm system. Color television sets were placed in the freshmen lounges and new paint applied in several of the dorms. Also, the shower plumbing in the freshmen dorms was altered to help prevent abrupt changes in water temperature in the showers.

Perhaps the most spectacular evidence of the renovation projects can be seen in Watts Hall. The dorm received a paint job and new furniture, doors, screens, and curtains. Two experimental projects in Watts included the installation of wall-to-wall carpeting in some of the rooms and telephone conduits throughout the dorm. Opie said phones should be installed in the near future.

Much of the work involved in the renovation project had to be done relatively late in the summer as some of the dorms were occupied most of the time. Davidson Business Manager Robert Currie, who hopes to continue the renovation of East and Cannon next summer, stated “everybody did a very fine job in such a short period of time” and all the dorms were ready for the opening of school.

The Davidson College Presbyterian Church, included in the dorm allocation plans, has also been receiving extensive improvements. For the duration of the repair work, the congregation has been meeting in Love Auditorium.