Page Six April 25, - QDK Picks 15 New Students, Professors outside perspective By DICK ANDERSON

Blacks Ask End Of Clemson’s STEP

The president of the Student League for Black Identity at Clemson University asked last week for an end to tutoring of black children in the surrounding community. Speaking for his organization, the president said that whites’ tutoring black children does nothing for black identity and pride while merely teaching mechanics like grammar and arithmetic. Students for Educational Aid are “doing more harm than good,” said the president. “Blacks would like to see the program stopped because what SEA is really doing is to grow these black children up to be white.”

Michigan Regents Restrict Military Research

The Board of Regents of the University of Michigan has established a set of guidelines for classified research to be done at the university. The guidelines include automatic rejection of contracts for research which is aimed at destroying or incapacitating human beings, contracts under which the university would be unable to reveal the subject of the research for confidential discussion by the faculty, contracts which would deny the university the right to reveal the existence of the research or the identity of the contractor, and contracts which fail to either enhance the research capabilities of the researcher or contribute significantly to the advancement of knowledge.

Northside Elementary School?

“If we need to, we'll have to sit-in. We’ll just sit down and do nothing,” declares Andy Schoultz, a sixth grader at Northside Elementary School in Ann Arbor, Mich.

Northside Elementary School?

In an action similar to those at many universities over decisions on tenure, a group of concerned fifth and sixth graders has confronted Ann Arbor Superintendent of Public Schools Scott Westerman and demanded reinstatement of a teacher who was recently demoted. The leaders of the movement, who call themselves the Kids Committed for Mister Silvian (KCMS), mobilized recently when they learned that their teacher, Joseph Silvian, had been demoted from his regular teaching position to full-time substitute. “He helps us, he talks to us,” says Lynn Erlich, one of the leaders of the KCMS and the daughter of a University of Michigan Social Work School professor. “His entire idea of education is getting cut off. Mr. Silvian needs a chance.”

Competing Newspaper Investigated

A newspaper at Vanderbilt University which was set to counter the regular newspaper, the Hustler, is coming under investigation by the Vanderbilt student government. The new newspaper, the Versus, was chartered as a corporation in the state of Tennessee by three Nashville citizens and is being operated by sophomore Mike Frank. According to Hofstra University Chronicle, their student newspaper, the Hustler was taken over last fall by a small, radical group which used the editorial page to endorse black comedian Dick Gregory for President. The Versus, which advocates a university administration line, including the Vanderbilt administration’s emphasis on working within the existing framework, is under attack for not being correctly registered under the regulations of Vanderbilt University. The investigative committee also attacked the university administration for “bending over backwards to help Versus.”

Without the ceremony of past tappings, Omicron Delta Kappa this week elected seven seniors, six juniors and two faculty members to its ranks. A national honorary leadership fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa in the past has invited a speaker to address the student body at its tapping ceremonies, but this term the small turnouts at voluntary assemblies forced the fraternity to change its tapping procedure. Election to ODK requires a rank within the top 35 percent of one's class and leadership within one of five areas: scholarship, athletics, student government and social life, publications and dramatics, music and art.

Sam Aycock is a senior, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, the Wind Ensemble, is director of the Davidson Pep Band, a participant and band director in advanced ROTC.

Tim Gailey has had the lead in a number of drama productions. A senior, he is a member of Sigma Nu, the Red and Black Masquers, Alpha Phi Omega, advanced ROTC honor guard and the teacher training program.

John Passmore is a senior, a member of Phi Delta Theta, a senator in the SGA and a member of the tennis team.

John Roe, a senior and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, is defense adviser for the Honor Court and the Regulations Court, executive vice president of Alpha Phi Omega, a member of Phi Eta Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, the Social Council, PRAM, and was a delegate to the State Student Legislature.

Garee Thomas is a senior, president of Alpha Tau Omega, a member of the Honor Court and an officer in the ROTC Brigade staff.

Al Varner is a senior, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Beta Kappa, the President's Commission on Social Patterns, and is a letterman on the tennis team. He spent last year on the Junior Year Abroad.

John Williams is a senior in Pi Kappa Alpha, vice chairman of the Regulations Court, associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a member of STEP and the faculty Educational Policy Committee.

Emerson Bell is a junior, a member of Phi Delta Theta, has served as vice president and now president of the YMCA, a member of several drama productions and a hall counselor.

Pat Bray is a junior, president of Pi Kappa Alpha, a member of the President's Commission on Coeducation, the Honor Court and Richardson Fellows, is a hall counselor and associate editor of the Wildcat Handbook.

Bob Dunham is a junior in Sigma Phi Epsilon, has been news editor, sports editor and now editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a member of the Interfraternity Council and the Court of Appeals, and is a hall counselor.

Peter Hobbie is a junior, former class senator and now president of the Student Government Association, and is a member of the President's Commission on Social Patterns.

Joe Kilpatrick is a junior in Phi Delta Theta, a member of the Student Life Committee, the President's Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibility, Richardson Fellows, is associate editor of The Miscellany, a member of the Student Exchange Committee and the Scheduling Committee and was president of the Sophomore Class.

The faculty members selected for membership in ODK were Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, professor of military science, and Dr. Anthony Abbott, professor of English.

A REVIEW By PHIL RINER Staff Writer

To a Tuesday night audience of over 500 Davidson students and faculty, eight singers and musicians presented hand clapping, foot stomping, old-time Southern music in the fourth annual Southern Folk Festival. The purpose of taking these indigenous Southern folk artists on tour was the desire to focus on common experiences of all in the South and to show the various forms.

Merritt Wins Martin Prize, Payne Lampoons Colleague

Pulitzer Prize winner Eugene Payne and the presentation of the D. Grier Martin Award for reporting high-

OPEN HOUSE

These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:

T. O. Pinkerton Gray Rd.
Locke White Jr. 203 Lorimer
T. A. Williams 609 N. Main
James B. Woods 552 Lorimer
J. A. McGeachy 309 Pinecrest

George Garrett To Read Poems, Give Bell Award

George Garrett, well-known poet and novelist, will speak here Tuesday as the Vereen Bell Award Speaker for 1969. Garrett, who is currently poet in residence at Hollins College in Salem, Va., will present a reading of his poems prior to the awarding of the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for creative writing. He is the author of several volumes of poetry, including “Coldground Was My Bed Last Night,” “Abraham's Knife” and “For A Bitter Season.” Garrett will deliver his reading at 4 p.m. Tuesday in Perkins Auditorium.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
JOHN FINE

Assistant Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
MARK HODGES

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
BILL LINEAWEAVER

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
DON PARMAN
A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Asst. Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Advertising Manager:
JIM ROY

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Alex Gordon, Steve Williams, Charlie Terrell, Phil Riner, George Park, Tom Dasher, Jule Young, Robert Elliott, Chris Bickley, Norwood Poland, Gene Linton and Bill Sherwood.

Subscription Rate: $6 per year ($6.50 if billed). Address subscription correspondence to: CirculationManager, THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 20036. EE will meet with several English classes while on campus. The Vereen Bell Award is the highest literary award presented by the college. Last year it was won by Sam Gwynn, now a Davidson senior.

Coed (Continued From Page 1) each night. “It will of course be inconvenient to move out for a week, but we will be doing everything we can to make it as easy as possible on those involved,” Jewett said. According to Jewett, each fraternity house will host girls in proportion to the number of members who have traveled to Randolph Macon. “We will inform the girls as to class schedules and as to which classes they are welcome to attend,” he said. Jewett noted that there will be a curfew, probably midnight on weeknights, with the girls being checked in by members of the Residence Hall Council or by special seniors designated by Randolph-Macon. “The temporary value of having girls on the campus for a week is fairly obvious,” Jewett said. “But this week can also give us an opportunity to try a possible future course, that of co-education.”

The annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet Monday night highlighted the event. The Martin Award, presented annually to the most outstanding freshman reporter, was presented by past editor Robbie Hooker to freshman Russ Merritt. Merritt, who is now sports editor, received the $25 award for his sports coverage during Hooker's term of office. He was responsible for the series “Davidson and the Southern,” a study of Davidson's role in and out of the Southern Conference. Payne, cartoonist for The Charlotte Observer, who won the Pulitzer last year for a series of ten editorial cartoons, spoke to the staff on the art of cartooning and shared some anecdotes of the trade. Speaking of cartoonist Bill Mauldin, Payne said, “Bill takes a steam bath every morning and gets his inspiration from the steam. I tried that for two weeks, and all I got was wrinkled fingers.”

Former Instructor Edits Three Critics’ Lectures

Lectures by three well-known critics of Southern Literature at a symposium here last spring were published this week by the University of Georgia Press. Edited by George E. Core, former English instructor here, “Southern Fiction Today: Renascence and Beyond” includes the speeches of Walter Sullivan, C. Hugh Holman, and Louis D. Rubin Jr. The three were at Davidson for a Reynolds Symposium. Sullivan, professor of English at Vanderbilt University, examines “The Southern Renascence and the Joycean Aesthetic.” Holman, who is professor of English at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, looks at how Southern social patterns have influenced the region's literature. Rubin criticizes the South's literature in light of its history, geography, and art. He is also an English professor at UNC-CH.

Face the beach with confidence with sun-tan lotion from PARKS REXALL DRUGS Phone 892-2111 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N.C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

SOUTHERN FOLK FESTIVAL Entire ensemble joins for opening number.

Country Troupe Captures Spirit Of Red Clay American Heritage of its musical expressions which make the South the greatest source of folk music in America. For two and a half hours, they fascinated their audience and probed for the thing that makes us all tick... love. This unusually warm group of entertainers hit their target and all appreciated their talents as they received a standing ovation at the completion of their program. The troupe consists of several groups well-known nationally, but ironically obscure in the South. The program began with a “clog” as the Blue Ridge Mountain Dancers displayed their talent. The dancers are natives of North Carolina and are champion cloggers. The Rev. Pearly Brown, blind since birth, was then led to the stage. The elderly singer and guitarist then enveloped all with his genuine sincerity. As he accompanied himself on the guitar, words slowly came forth. With all the love of mankind that the Reverend possessed, he sang out a hope of the future... “Peace will prevail...” The audience returned the same love that he gave to them as they gave him a standing ovation. Elizabeth Cotton then performed a song which she had written over 65 years ago and since then has become nationally famous. At only 10 years of age, she wrote “Freight Train” and ever since has been performing it in front of appreciative audiences. With her squeaky elderly voice and her unusual guitar style, she fascinated the audience. When asked why she played that way (she plays left-handed and upside-down) she retorted, “I know it’s wrong, but it's the way I learned and it's the way I play.”

Geyer To Speak At Baccalaureate

Dr. Alan Geyer, editor of “The Christian Century” journal, will be Davidson College’s baccalaureate speaker June 8. The publication has been called “the nation's most influential religious journal of news and opinion.” Dr. Geyer is the author of “Piety and Politics” (John Knox Press, 1963) and co-author and editor of “The Maze of Peace” (Friendship Press, 1969). Prior to assuming his present position, he was Director of International Relations for the United Church of Christ. From 1960 to 1965, he was chairman of the department of political science at Mary Baldwin College, Staunton, Va. Dr. Geyer is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University. He received an S.T.B. degree from Boston University School of Theology, and in 1961 received a Ph.D. from the Graduate School of Boston University. An ordained minister, he has served pastorates in Cambridge, Mass., and Newark, N.J. “He has long been involved in movements for racial justice and urban reconstruction,” according to “The Christian Century.” He has served in several capacities with the National Council of Churches, and numerous religious and professional organizations. The baccalaureate services will be at 11 a.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Admission will be by ticket only.

To fit the Davidson atmosphere, it was inevitable that the words “Momma don't ‘low no card-playing here” were retorted with irony by Fred Stovall, a blues singer from the Mississippi Delta area. With “cat hat” and khaki pants, he plucked from his all-metal guitar that immortal spiritual “Down by the Riverside.” The whole troupe was received so well that the Union asked them to stay and present two more concerts. These people of the South, of the mountains and the lowlands, the black and the white, have woven a poetic history in song. The music of these Southern musicians has been a story of defeat and difficulties, of earthly joys and heavenly hopes, and of sudden death and inward dignity. These same people try to live the message they preach. “We are concerned with building a South in which black people and white people can live together in mutual respect.” They received the respect, the admiration, and the enthusiasm of all they came in contact with during their two-day stay. In these Southern folk artists, the hope of peace, unity, and love prevailed to show the rich heritage of the “red clay America.”

Keep Your Mother In Stitches with a gift from Pat Trexler’s Needlecraft Center Wide variety of imported embroidery kits — Needlepoint tapestries — knit & crochet kits — Knitting Bags — Books — Accessories We will be happy to assist you in selecting a gift. Prices range from $1.25 to $35.00 Located in the Village Store

SUMMER JOBS WE HAVE A SPECIAL JOB JUST FOR YOU! National Agency of Student Employment P.O. Box 52492 New Orleans, Louisiana 70150 Cash Check Money Order GENTLEMEN: PLEASE SEND 1969 SUMMER JOB DIRECTORIES CHECKED BELOW. VACATION RESORT JOBS Work with students at America's finest Resorts. FOREIGN JOBS Gain valuable experiences abroad with pay. CAREER TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES Start your career working with America’s best companies. SPECIAL OFFER — Our latest bulletin which contains all three job fields plus a special job assignment for you. Please state interest and desired location.