Town And Gown: A Study In Unity... Well, At Times
By ALLEN LEWIS
Staff Writer

“The thing that gives me the most satisfaction is that whenever conflicts do arise, the townspeople and the college are
willing to sit down and work them out.” That was the response of Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, Committee on Community
Relations, when asked about the relationship between Davidson College and the town of Davidson. Rhodes said that there were times
when the college and the town had conflicts, but that the two have been willing to talk about the problems
and work them out.

As an example, he pointed to two things: Davidson's basketball program and the acceptance of a student from the Congo.
The basketball program, he said, has allowed the people in the surrounding areas to identify with the college more than
they had ever been able to before. The acceptance of George Nzongola, the first Negro admitted to Davidson, prompted the
creation of the mayor's committee in an effort to face and attempt to solve problems arising from the admission of
Negroes to Davidson. This helped unify the community with the college, Rhodes said.

Mayor F. L. Jackson agreed with Rhodes. He cited such things as the widening of Concord Road several years ago
and the college's representation on the town planning board as evidence of the cooperation existing between the town and gown.

C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, saw the problem in a different light: the college would like to
be a larger part of the community than it is now, he said. The problem arises because there is hardly
enough space and barely enough people to take care of the students’ needs, much less those of the townspeople. As
an example, Smith cited the Union. There are signs at every door which say that the union is open only
to members of the College and those on official business. “We would like to be able to say that everyone
is welcome,” Smith said, “but we have had problems with fights and disturbances caused by people other than students. It
looks as if we don't care about the town, but given the space and the people that we have, it
is too difficult to work it out.” Smith also pointed out that restrictions placed on the use of the gymnasium
and restrictions about who can attend Social Council concerts are part of the same problem.

Faculty Scholarship - Does It Really Matter?
By DAVID SWEATT
Managing Editor

“A person can generate a lot more enthusiasm for his teaching subject if he is active in his field, not
just reading what others are doing. For me at least, it's easier to remain enthusiastic and try to impart that
enthusiasm to the students when I too am active in the frontier areas.” The words are those of Dr. William
T. Lammers, associate professor of biology. His comments reflect the feeling of many faculty members that research, whether published or
unpublished, is an indispensable part of good teaching.

“I don't equate research with publication,” said Dr. Anthony S. Abbott, associate professor of English, adding that a professor's output
of published work is not an index of how up to date he is in his field. Agreeing that publication
is not a good measure of a professor's teaching, several professors said that more published research should come from faculty
members.

Dr. Malcolm Lester, professor of history and a member of the Committee on Faculty Study and Research, reflected the same
feeling, calling faculty research and publication “an index of a college’s academic standing.” He added that “as the college aspires
to be more than just a regional college it is becoming more and more important.”

“This is the most competent group I've ever worked with,” said Dr. T. A. Williams, associate professor of French, speaking
of the present Davidson faculty. Williams feels that the burden of curriculum changes and rule changes for students have siphoned
off faculty energy over the last few years. Now that the arduous housekeeping duties are over, faculty members will be
better able to focus on scholarly pursuits.

Professors interviewed varied in their opinion of the extent to which faculty research and publication is encouraged by the college.
The Committee on Faculty Study and Research administers money budgeted by the college specifically for faculty research. In recent years
the annual allocation for faculty study and publication has been $25,000. In some years, this amount has been augmented by
outside sources. Last year, for example, the Del E. Webb Foundation contributed $25,000 for faculty research. This year, college funds
and outside funds amount to $25,000.

Professor As Committeeman
By STEVE WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

It has long been standard for political figures to accept positions in the field of higher education upon retirement from
political life. Recently, Davidson professors have reversed this pattern. Today, many college professors prefer to participate in politics on the
local and state level instead of entering political life in the national realm. This way they can take an active
part in the workings of government and maintain their status in the field of education.

The political involvement of several members of the Davidson faculty reflects this trend. One is economics professor Charles E. Ratliff,
who serves as vice chairman of the Democratic Party in Deweese Precinct number one. Another is Registrar and Associate Dean
of Faculty Jay H. Ostwalt, who serves as second vice-chairman of the Mecklenburg Democratic Party. In elective positions, Geography Professor
James W. Reid Jr. serves as a commissioner for the town of Davidson and Associate Professor of Chemistry James G.
Martin, a Republican, serves as a commissioner for Mecklenburg County.

Several questions arise as a result of faculty participation in politics. Many people ask, “Does it require too much of
the professor's time to participate in local politics?” Martin, who holds probably the toughest position both time-wise and responsibility-wise, estimated
that he devoted as much as 30 hours a week to his position when he was chairman of the Mecklenburg
Board of Commissioners. He said he had to work things out with the dean and the chairman of the department.
“As a result, I received less committee work and do less counseling, especially during the campaign months.” Martin also served
as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in Miami Beach, Fla.

All of the professors interviewed agreed that, as Martin said, “People in the academic profession also have a responsibility to
the civic life of the community. Most people in academic circles have broader views on wider problems.” Ratliff justified the
professor’s participation in this way: “A professor, just as any other citizen, has an obligation to the political affairs of
the community.”

A question may also arise as to the issues on which a professor is allowed to take a stand. Assistant
Professor William E. Jackson of the Political Science Department served as chairman of the Speaker's Bureau for the Humphrey-Muskie ticket
in the recent Presidential election. He says that academic freedom prevails at Davidson for professors, particularly in taking stands on
different issues. “I think it’s a healthy trend for professors to involve themselves with political issues because often they know
more about the substance of many political policies than do the politicians.”

The question of whether or not professors should go beyond the precinct and local level in politics is one that
is highly discussed. Many of Davidson's professors have been approached to do just that, and a seat in the state
or national legislature would probably be too formidable for some of Davidson's politically competent professors. However, their time and work
schedule would not allow a professor to assume such duties and remain in the academic profession simultaneously. “It's really a
matter of opinion,” Ostwalt said. “I would hesitate as an administrative person to take an officer role beyond the county
level.” Martin reflected the concern of most of the professors about local politics: “Over my first five years at Davidson,
my political philosophy has tended toward local problems. I have no one to blame but myself if the central government
steps in to do the job I should be doing. If you believe in it, you must get involved.”Full-Time Job
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

Dr. David Kaylor is an associate professor of religion at Davidson College. He is teaching two courses this term. Kaylor
is also a member of the Student Life Committee, the Committee on the College Union, Fraternities and Clubs, and chairman
of the Davidson College Regulations Court. In addition to these committees, he played a major role in the passage of
the new Code of Responsibility as a member of the Committee on Rules and Punishments and served last year on
the old Student Discipline Committee.

Last year, says Kaylor, he spent 10 to 15 hours in committee work every week. This year he estimates he
is spending only four or five hours a week. How does he feel about all this committee work? “Sometimes it
seems like a full-time job," said Kaylor, laughing. “During this period of re-evaluation and change at Davidson, though, the committee
load for everyone is especially heavy.

“There are strengths and weaknesses to the committee system,” he said. “The faculty is concerned with the total climate of
student life at Davidson, not just the students’ performance in the classroom. I enjoy working with students on these committees
because I can relate to them in a different way than in the classroom, as we work out mutual problems.
I sometimes feel that students view the faculty too much as rule-makers because of this system, though, and I don't
think this is good. Also, I am sure the scholarly output of the faculty could be increased if some of
this load were removed and given to the administration, as at some other schools.”

Kaylor’s views are typical of a large majority of faculty members at Davidson. The mainstay of the committee system seems
to be that this is the way things have always worked. Committee work is taken into consideration for promotions and
salary increases and is the most respected form of service to the college. The new faculty constitution, approved by the
trustees two years ago, has removed many of the inequities in committee assignments.

“The effect of the new constitution,” said Dr. William McGavock, professor of mathematics, “was to eliminate over-involvement on committees. The
duties were delineated so that a few committees were not a general catch-all for most of the work.” If a
professor serves on some elective committees now, he is ineligible for others. Length of service at Davidson is an important
criterion for appointing the committee members, though most professors serve on at least one committee. Appointive committees are open to
anyone, though, and there are some faculty members who have gained a reputation as ‘good committee men’ and are usually
given these jobs. They have proved their ability by doing a good job on several committees and are rewarded by
being given more responsibility.

These special committees include the President's commissions, the Committee on Rules and Punishments, and the faculty advisory committee which assisted
the trustees in selecting a new president. “If too many of these ad hoc committees are formed,” said McGavock, “there
is a danger of destroying the balance created by the constitution.” Faculty members don't object to serving on these committees
and simply accept the responsibility as part of their jobs. They are anxious to have some say-so in running the
college because they want to apply the experience they have had with the educational process.

The recent addition of students to most faculty committees has met with general approval on the part of most professors.
“In general it is very good to have students serving on committees,” said Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology.
“It lets students know that their views are indeed represented to the faculty.”

The Davidsonian
The Davidson Professor
FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 1969 PAGE THREE

Many Faculty Men Alumni, But ‘We Look For The Best’
By DICK ANDERSON
Managing Editor

Although 32 of Davidson’s faculty members are Davidson graduates, the college has no official policy on hiring its graduates, according
to Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. “I know the Davidson men better, and know more about them,” Johnston said,
“but we look for the best man available.”

Of Davidson's 42 full professors, 20 are Davidson alumni. This is 47 percent of all full professors. However, among associate
professors and among instructors, this percentage drops off: five of 21 associate professors, or 24 percent; five of 24 assistant
professors (21 percent); and two of the seven instructors, or 28 percent. These statistics indicate that the number of faculty
members who are Davidson alumni is likely to decline somewhat, as professors move up through the ranks from assistant professor.

A survey made by Professor McGavock in 1960 showed that the percentage of alumni had declined fairly steadily from a
high of 68 percent in 1932 (the first year of the survey) to a percentage of 43 percent in 1960.
The present faculty is 34 percent alumni. Seventy-one percent of the professors (as opposed to instructors) have doctoral degrees. Only
two of the full professors do not have advanced degrees beyond a Master's degree; both of these are Davidson alumni.
Of the associate professors, 85 percent have doctorates; all those who do not are in the field of Fine Arts.
There are eight doctorates among the 24 assistant professors, but many of those not possessing doctorates are in the process
of earning them.

The Ford Foundation has made a four-year grant to the college to be spent in the area of the humanities
disciplines. This year for the first time the committee is inviting applications for foreign study and travel, the project funded
specifically for this purpose by the Duke Endowment. Applications in the humanities are to be given preference under the terms
of the grant; provisional guidelines set up for the program would allow a faculty member up to a maximum of
$6,000 for a summer project. Support for faculty research and study is usually available on other financial terms, according to
Dr. E. E. Brown, professor of biology and a member of the Faculty Study and Research Committee. Still, said Brown,
financial support is not the only problem; the more formidable obstacle is the sparseness of time. Most faculty members feel
that whatever the obstacle to research and publication, faculty publishing activity does not appear to have changed significantly over the
last two decades. Perusal of the Scholarly Publications and Professional Honors of the Faculty, compiled annually by the Committee on
Faculty Study and Research, reveals that 17 faculty members published in 1967, out of a faculty numbering approximately 100. Twenty
years ago, in 1947, with a smaller faculty, 20 faculty members had work published. Faculty members agree that future years
should see more scholarly work produced by Davidson professors. With the well-paid, competent faculty now in residence here, there appears
little reason, especially in light of the new curriculum, for the faculty not to increase its scholarly output, say some
professors.

Still, some professors think not enough incentive exists to bring men to the often arduous task of research and writing,
or even just writing up research done in the normal course of class. According to Johnston, the overall compensation, including
fringe benefits and salaries, is fifth best in the South. Duke pays the top salaries. Assistant professors receive a minimum
of $7,500 to a maximum of $9,000, associate professors $8,500 to $11,500, and full professors from $11,000 to $13,000. The
criteria of merit by which professors are judged for promotion and salary increase are scholarship, teaching, and community service. Questioned
as to the relative importance of these criteria, Johnston rated them: scholarship 40 percent, teaching 40 percent, and community service
20 percent. Community service includes work in student committee counseling, committee work, and work outside the college.

According to one professor, however, “It is not clear to the average faculty member what role this scholarly research and
publishing play in salary, tenure, and promotion.” Asked what he thought the weighting of the criteria of merit for professors
is, one faculty member speculated that committee work was valued at about 75 percent, teaching 20 percent, and scholarship 5
percent. Whether it’s lack of incentive, lack of time, misunderstanding, or lack of intellectual stimulation, it appears that faculty research
and publication is something most professors want to see more of at Davidson. Faculty members also seem to agree that
the quality of the college itself improves as the faculty’s scholarly output increases.
