Page Four February 28, 1969 _ The Davidsonian

CAMPBELL SPEAKS FOR BLACK POWER
Democracy perverted by capitalism & “Christianism.” _ — (Staff Photo by Davidson)

Coeducation Draws an U.Va. Alumni Protest
By BOB DUNHAM Editor-in-Chief

While alumni at the University of Virginia continue to protest the school’s recent move to coeducation, the student body at
the school has shown nary an emotion one way or another, a student leader said this week. Roderick McDonald, news
editor of The Cavalier Daily, campus publication at the Charlottesville school, told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week that the only major
reaction to the decision favoring coeducation is protest over the length of time that the changeover will require. The decision,
which was made earlier this month by the Virginia Board of Visitors, was expected to touch off considerable comment and
opposition on the campus, but the protest apparently died while the commission, studying the plans for coeducation, labored on for
18 months before announcing its recommendations.

“It has been assumed for some time that there was a large residue of sentiment against coeducation,” MacDonald said, “but
it just hasn't materialized.”

“The only disappointment which has been expressed is that the program’s implementation will take so long,” he said. Under the
program adopted by the Board of Visitors, student wives will be admitted next year, with the first class of female
applicants to be admitted in the fall of 1970. MacDonald said that the alumni response has been anything but quiet.
“The Board of Visitors has received mountains of letters against the move, but it apparently will have no effect on
the implementation of the coeducation program,” he said.

MacDonald said that, in his opinion, the time involved in the commission’s study of the feasibility of the program and
the method of operation was the major factor in the diminishing of student excitement over the move. “It was generally
assumed all along that the plan would be adopted,” he said. “So there was really no shock wave or excitement
created by the announcement.”

“Most of the students who opposed the change initially had accepted the inevitability of the change during the commission's study,”
MacDonald said, “and the ones who favored the change are merely upset that it is now going to take two
years to get the program started.”

Under the Board of Visitors decision, the number of male students to be admitted will not be reduced, and the
standards and traditions of the university will be maintained. Prior to the change to coeducation, the university was the only
all-male state university in the country.

Campbell: Power Must Stop Life In A Dragon’s Mouth
By STEVE ROADY Staff Writer

F. C. Campbell, professor of American studies at Wabash College and the speaker in Tuesday's chapel, likened the United States
government to a ‘dragon’ which oppresses human rights not only in this country but all over the world. Everyone in
America lives in the “dragon’s mouth,” he said, and the “beautiful brothers and sisters who are seizing their humanity from
the teeth of the dragon are at the same time rescuing the rights of oppressed people everywhere.”

The American way of life, said Campbell, was originally founded on democratic idealism, but has become perverted by capitalism and
“Christianism.” The new outlook fostering the black and student power movements disapproves of this exploitation and sham Christianity and wants
to be rid of it. The technique used by the new movements to combat the system is to take the
institutions which are presently oppressing the people and turn them around so that they will help the people, said Campbell.
In order to do this the “revolutionaries must deal with the system on its own terms, the terms of power.”

Campbell predicted that as the rigid Christian and capitalistic lifestyles of today slowly change, more progress will be made in
reorganizing the system.

Exam Results Improve

Of the 28 freshmen who took the Area III Exam in Math and Natural Science, 20 passed it. Dr. James
Fredricksen of the Area III Exam Committee said that the committee can make no evaluation of and draw no conclusions
from the results until after several more sets of exams have been given. He added that the ultimate value of
the area exam can be determined only after those students taking it have graduated from Davidson and have begun to
compete against people who have not taken such exams.

Dr. Max Polley, head of the Area II committee, was not surprised that no freshman took the Religion and Philosophy
Exam. He said he expected that few or no students would take this exam when it was offered in January.

Selected Business Managers

Juniors David Branch, Craig Garner, and Jack Wallman were elected business managers of the Wildcat Handbook, Quips and Cranks, and
THE DAVIDSONIAN last Friday by the Publications Board. The post of business manager for the Miscellany went unfilled for lack
of candidates, but the three elections were unanimous.

The Publications Board, which consists of the editors and business managers of the publications, the college treasurer, and a faculty
member, elects business managers for the publications and controls their finances, in addition to determining how editors are chosen and
approving nominees for editor.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, February 28
4 p.m. Lecture: Dana 204 Dr. Ed. J. Kuenzler, UNC-C “Graduate Study In Marine Sciences”
6 p.m. Social Patterns Commission Wildcat A

Saturday, March 1
All Day Social Patterns Commission Wildcat A
2 p.m. Marathon Basketball Game Johnston Gym
8 p.m. Southern Conference Basketball Tournament Charlotte Coliseum

Monday, March 3
7:30 p.m. Investment Club
8:15 p.m. Movie: Chambers B Morrison Room “Shop On Main Street”

Tuesday, March 4
10 a.m. Assembly: D. C. Drama Workshop Presentation Love Aud.
1 p.m. Social Patterns Commission Wildcat A
3:30 p.m. Piedmont Univ. Center Lecturer: Dr. Harlow, Prof. of Psych., Univ. of Wis. Perkins Aud.
7 p.m. Sigma Pi Sigma Meeting Dana 114
7:30 p.m. Film: “Don Quixote” Perkins Aud.
7:30 p.m. Free University Classes Chambers Bldg.

Wednesday, March 5
2 p.m. Federal Service Entrance Exam Chambers 310
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Citizen Kane” Love Aud.

Thursday, March 6
8:15 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Shop On Main Street”

Friday, March 7
9:30 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Shop On Main Street”

Weary Pace
By DAVID GRISSETT Staff Writer

A “basketball week” featuring a marathon game between residents of Belk and residents of the three freshman dorms and an
informal speech by Coach Lefty Driesell were conducted this week by the Residence Hall Association. The purpose of the week,
according to Ran Coble, chairman, is to promote spirit and involvement within the dorms as well as boosting the basketball
spirit for the Southern Conference Tournament, which began yesterday.

Driesell made his talk to a full lobby of students in Belk on Monday night. He talked amiably about his
methods of recruiting and the team’s prospects for next year, but brushed off questions regarding his rumored departure with non-committal
remarks.

The marathon game in Johnston Gym began yesterday and will continue until it breaks the world record. It is scheduled
to last until tomorrow afternoon at 2, unless the RHA finds it can break the record and stop sooner. The
world record is disputed, RHA members said. One report puts it at 17 hours for a five-man team, and another
puts it at some 80 hours, they said. Permission had to be obtained from the Athletic Department.PAINTS COMMUNITY CENTER

The pledges of Sigma Phi Epsilon braved the cold last weekend as they contributed their time to paint the new
community center being built by the Piedmont Area Development Association at the west side of town. The center, when completed,
will serve the entire Negro community of Davidson. (Staff Photo by Davidson).

To Request Computers For Administration, Student Use

By MARK HODGES
Staff Writer

‘Davidson College needs a new computer which can be used by the administration as well as by students,’ Assistant Professor
of Mathematics Jerry A. Roberts said this week. Roberts heads a committee making a study of the value of the
present computer. At the present time, the college owns an IBM 1620 computer. According to Roberts, the advantage of this
computer is that “it is one of the few college computers in the nation which is readily available to students.”
Roberts went on to say that the IBM 1620's main disadvantage is the limited use which it offers the college.
The computer is adept at working with small amounts of data for students, but cannot handle the large amounts of
paperwork which the administration offices require for student records.

“The details of the whole project are very hazy at this point," Roberts continued. He said that the computer study
group will meet with Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of Davidson College, late this week or next week to
decide upon the purchase of a new computer. Any new computer will be used primarily for the data which the
administrative offices of the college need to be processed. Dr. R. Bruce Jackson, professor of mathematics, said that if the
administration decides to buy a new computer, it will be purchased “possibly by this summer and probably by next year.”
If Spencer approves the purchase of a new computer, Roberts said that the computer study group will meet one more
time to decide what type of computer to purchase.

Registration Set For Next Term

By CHRIS BICKLEY
Staff Writer

Registration for the spring term of the academic year will begin Monday, March 3 and run through Friday, March 7,
Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt, associate dean of the faculty and registrar, announced. Seniors will register Monday of this period, juniors
on Tuesday, sophomores on Wednesday, and freshmen on Thursday. Friday registration will be for special and international students and for
late registrants. Changes in schedules may be made during these registration periods without charge. However, a fee of $2 will
be charged for each course added or dropped during the regular add-drop period, March 24-28. Ostwalt stated that his office
is trying to cut down the long lines and impersonal formalities of registration. Many students have already changed their schedules,
he said, but faculty advisers will be available to discuss scheduling problems with students during the formal registration period.

Alcohol Course Coming Soon

By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

Although the particulars have not all been completely worked out, a course on alcohol, drugs, and mental health will be
given to next year’s freshmen. The course was demanded by the trustees last October when they approved the Code of
Responsibility. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said that such a course has received much thought and consideration since the
adoption of the Code of Responsibility. An outline of a similar course at Emory, as well as a meeting with
Dr. Myron Sandifer, head of the Psychology Department at the University of Kentucky, have aided in the development of the
course.

“It is pretty clear that the course will draw on some professional people beyond the campus,” Burts said. “However, some
campus people will also be involved in teaching it.” Burts commented that he has received suggestions that the course include
social hygiene, “namely sex education.” The course will be very general in nature, he said. As to its being required
of all entering freshmen, Burts said, “This is an important enough element in the Davidson experience that all freshmen ought
to take it.” He commented that some upperclassmen could benefit from it. Times for the course are still nebulous. Burts
said it might be given in place of one term of physical education.

DRIESELL DISCUSSES CHANCES, FUTURE

Coach speaks for RHC “Basketball Week.” (Staff Photo by Weems)

Union Joins Producers In Movie Title Search

By JOHN ROWE
News Editor

Universal Pictures is currently running a contest among the staff and students of the member schools of the National Entertainment
Conference to find a title for Fred Weintraub’s first movie to be shot in New York in May, according to
Union President Ed Embree. Weintraub, who discovered the talents of Peter, Paul and Mary, Bill Cosby, Woody Allen, and others,
is the owner of the Bitter End Cafe in New York. His office runs the Coffee House Circuit. The movie
is based upon a story by Jake Holmes, who was the first performer to appear on the Coffee House Circuit
tour, and who appeared at Davidson last year. The winner's title will be the one actually chosen, or the one
most seriously considered, by Universal.

The movie, whose present title is “Take It From The Top,” is actually three short stories about young people. According
to Weintraub’s Fredana Management Corp., the first story “deals with a charming female kleptomaniac and the young performer whose life
she affects. He continues to suffer, adores her, and then is ready to go through it all for another like
her.” In the second story, “A young rock and roll singer climbs his way to the top by stepping on
everybody and using today's methods of communication i.e. the underground press, outlandish clothing, drugs, etc. (youth’s version of ‘What Makes
Sammy Run’).” In the third story, “A 17-year-old girl has an affair with a 28-year-old Negro record producer. He leaves
her before the child is born, and three years later tries to get the baby back (he feels the mother
is unfit) by having her house raided for drugs.”

The titles submitted should not mention the fact that the movie is a trilogy, and should be usable as song
titles, according to the contest rules. Entries should be submitted at the Union desk by March 10, Embree said.

Blow Yourself Up To POSTER SIZE

2 ft. x 3 ft. Send any Black and White or Color Photo into a poster. $3.50 2 ft. x
4 ft. Blow-Up $7.50 Send Check or Money Order to: MOR, 123 Main St., New York, N.Y. 10010. Postage included.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA before the tournament games this weekend

FOR SATURDAY SUPPER pick up a box or a bucket of COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE Kentucky Fried Chicken.
803 S. Broad
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505

MEN WANTED for THIRTY WOMEN

The Guilford College Summer School in England has a surplus of women; additional men wanted for balanced group. Program of
Travel: 1 day in Paris; 5 weeks in London; 10 days independent travel. Program of Study: 5 weeks of study
in London, classes daily in mornings; trips to Stonehenge, Oxford, Stratford, etc. English History to 1660 and English Drama Courses
through the Renaissance. Cost: $700 for travel, tuition, hotel, breakfast, theater tickets, all parts of formal program. Dates: June 9-July
30. Applications must be made immediately to Dr. James B. Gutsell, Director, Summer School in England, Guilford College, Greensboro, N.C.
27410.
