Friday, November 14
8:03 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “The Queens”
8:15 p.m. Sacred Music Concert Love Auditorium

Saturday, November 15
1:15 p.m. Sacred Music Concert Love Auditorium
2 p.m. Football Richardson Field Davidson vs. Wofford
8 p.m. Concert: Love Auditorium “The Guess Who"

Monday, November 17
7 p.m. Film Perkins Auditorium “Maria Stuart”

Tuesday, November 18
7 p.m. Federal Service Entrance Examination Chambers basement
7:30 p.m. Free University Chambers
8:03 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Hombre”

Thursday, November 20
10 a.m. Speaker Morrison Room Dr. Margaret Elizabeth Sewell, poet and author

Friday, November 21
10 a.m. Speaker Morrison Room Dr. Margaret Elizabeth Sewell, poet and author
3:33 p.m. Freshmen football Murfreesboro, Tenn Davidson vs. Murfreesboro
8:03 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Hombre”

Saturday, November 22
2 p.m. Football Nashville, Tenn. Davidson vs. Vanderbilt
8:03 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Hombre”

Up ’n’ Coming Endowment Goes To Operating Expenses
By JOHN FINE News Editor

At their October 31 meeting, the Board of Trustees adopted the “total return” plan of determining the percentage of current operating expenses which the endowment funds can provide. Total return considers both yield and appreciation, yield being ordinary investment income such as dividends and interest, and appreciation being that which may take place in the endowment’s market value. The policy change presupposes that monies provided by the endowment can be sufficiently increased to permit both greater long-term growth of the endowment and a larger contribution of these monies to the operating budget.

According to Treasurer and Business Manager Robert Currie, the total return policy lifts a previous restriction which prevented the investment of endowment funds in growth stocks. In the past, the college thought in terms of high yield securities, which often had little potential for appreciation, he said. With total return, however, both capital gains and yield are objectives of college investment policy. The total return concept will be put into effect at Davidson under a plan developed by a committee of educators and bankers appointed by the Ford Foundation.

The portion of total return which can prudently be used in support of current operations is determined from the long-term projected rate of return, rather than from current rates. Currie said that at Davidson this rate will be five percent of the three years’ average market value of the endowment’s marketable securities. Unrestricted funds which have been added to endowment from time to time will be used as needed to supplement yield.

The portion of Davidson's $17.6 million endowment invested in marketable securities is $14 million, which is managed by the firm of Scudder Stevens & Clark. The plan allows professional management of the college’s portfolio without causing undue local restrictions, Currie said. He indicated that the manager would like a long-term view rather than reacting to each market movement. “Any endowment fund manager would still be investing for safety,” Currie said.

November 14, 1969 Page Three

The Davidsonian

A HANDFUL OF FRESHMEN
Despite the efforts of the Dean's Office, the educational programs on alcohol, sex, and drugs have seen poor turnout, as witnessed by the few freshmen participating in the series of programs. Following recommendations in the Code of Responsibility last year, a number of prominent doctors and psychologists were invited to speak. The program will continue for two more weeks. (Photo by Davidson).

Buttrick To Visit Winter Term, To Teach
By SCOTT DAVIDSON Staff Writer

Noted theologian George A. Buttrick will take residence in Davidson during the winter term this year and will conduct a course on “Biblical Thought and the Mind of Today.” A prolific author and editor, Buttrick retired in 1960 and has spent recent years in various visiting professorships. His course will consider several topics: man and his quest, prayer and modern man, death and resurrection, suffering, and the search for a viable ethic.

A native of England, Buttrick graduated from Theological College in Manchester and received honors in philosophy from Victoria University during the same year. He has received a total of 13 honorary degrees, including various doctorates in literature, divinity, and humane letters. Ordained in the Congregational Church in 1915, he served in other assignments in New York, Vermont, and Illinois. In 1954, he accepted the position of minister and professor of church morals at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., where he remained until his retirement in 1960. Since that time, he has acted as a visiting professor at various institutions.

Environmental Suicide Threatened At Open End
By NEIL COGHILL

“There is not one place on earth that man has had in habitation for a hundred years that is not in complete ruin,” said Wallace.

Scott, Denninger Take Six Straight
The Davidson College debate team has compiled an overall record of 26-12 for two tournaments in the past two weeks. The tournaments were held at Wake Forest University October 30 through November 1 and the University of South Carolina November 6-8.

The novice two-man team of Mike Scott and Mark Denninger and the four-man team of Charlie Davis and Bill Eskridge (negatives) and Bill Endy and Steve Wright (affirmatives) contested the Wake Forest tournament against colleges from all over the United States. Scott-Denninger, the two-man group, defeated Boston College, Michigan State, Dartmouth, and Northwestern. They lost only to Georgetown and the University of North Carolina.the four-man groups, Davis and Eskridge, won an honorable mention for its 5-6 record. They beat Bridgewater, Shaw University, Navy, Clemson, and Roanoke College, and lost only to the University of Richmond by one speaker point. The affirmative men, Endy and Wright, beat Shaw University, University of Richmond, and Mercer, for a 3-3 record. The four-man team thus won eight debates and lost only four. The entire team’s record for Wake Forest was 12-6.

At South Carolina, the team did even better, winning 14 debates and losing six. Gray Mason and Danny Clodfelter were the two-man team, while the four-man team consisted of Davis-Eskridge (affirmatives) and Scott-Denninger (negatives). Mason-Clodfelter finished the tournament with a 4-4 record, missing the semi-finals after losing their last two debates. Although their winnings were not spectacular, their speaker points were unusually high. Mason averaged 23 points and Clodfelter 25. Clodfelter won the fourth-place speaker award. Eskridge-Davis, the affirmatives of the four-man team, won four and lost two. They beat Clemson, Valdosta State, Lenoir Rhyne, and the State University of Alabama. They lost only to Appalachian State and West Georgia. Eskridge-Davis tied two other teams for first place in the loss record but ranked third in speaker points. Scott-Denninger, the negatives, won all six of their debates, defeating Emory, Miami, Pittsburgh, Wingate, Stetson, and the Citadel. This was the first time in the history of Davidson debating that a team has gone undefeated in a tournament. Davidson's four-man team, Bill Eskridge, Charlie Davis, Mike Scott, and Mark Denninger, compiled a 10-2 record, tying with another team for first place in the tournament.

ODE Taps Six Members
Five Seniors, One Junior

Five seniors and one junior were recently received into Omicron Delta Epsilon, the national honorary economics society. Seniors Nelson Bryant, Dennis Harmon, Steve Klein, and Jack Wellman were elected. The lone junior selected was Graham McGoogan. The purposes of ODE are to confer distinction for high achievement in scholastic economics, to promote and stimulate interest in economic policy and analysis, and to bring together students and faculty who share a common interest in these areas. To qualify for membership, a student must maintain an overall B average, with an average over 12 hours of economics of at least a 3.25. Senior Joe Hughes is president of ODE, and Dr. Louise Nelson is faculty sponsor.

James C. Wallace, who spoke at the Open End discussion Monday night, is an associate professor of Social Studies at North Carolina State University. The topic was “How Can We Save North Carolina?” Wallace declared that there is a “global crisis, ecological in nature, all the way down to picturesque North Carolina.” He defined ecology as “the science of interdependence between man and his environment.” Wallace pointed out that man’s development of the environment consequently affects the quality of our environment, which is rapidly declining. This can be seen, he said, in the rampant increase of pollution: water, air, noise, and many others. The ultimate question, he said, is not whether the struggle was going to expire, but if man can make it. Is there an environmental disease affecting the lower animals which will also affect man? Wallace says yes: that whatever we are today, we are just what our environment has made us. Therefore, he continued, we destroy ourselves if we destroy our environment. Up to now, Wallace said, people have generally dismissed conservationists as either “little old ladies in tennis shoes or birdwatchers.” Moreover, the money being spent on conservation is not appropriated effectively in the right areas. Wallace also expressed concern over North Carolina’s efforts to encourage new businesses to come to the state. He suggested that the state readjust its priorities to permit only development within the context of conservation. It should stop looking for a short-term gain from industry, Wallace continued, and begin protecting the permanent resources in which North Carolina is rich: mountains, topsoil, beaches, forests, and open space. Wallace cited DDT as a good example of a dangerous pollutant. It has been extensively used since World War Two, but whether its direct effects on the environment are dangerous will not be known until “the substructure of man’s life support system is destroyed.” Maybe after forty years of DDT, he joked grimly, we will all sprout “yellow ten ears.”

Biblical Thought Today

Since then, he has published a number of books, including “Biblical Thought in the Secular University,” “Sermons Preached in a University Church,” “Faith and Education,” and most recently “Jesus Came Preaching.” A noted author, his most heralded work is the book “Prayer,” which was published in 1942. He also served as general editor for “The Interpreter’s Bible” and “The Interpreter’s Dictionary.”

Wesleyan Board To Be Diversified

Wesleyan University, one of several schools scrutinized by the five Spencer Commissions for educational ideas, has taken a major step in reorganizing its Board of Trustees. The Middletown, Conn. school’s trustees have voted in a new type of board, while at the same time restructuring the administration, in hopes of finding a well-balanced system of campus governance. The plan calls for the addition of students and faculty as voting members of the five standing trustee committees in which broad policy is formulated. It also creates two new positions, that of Chancellor and Executive Vice President, each sharing administrative responsibilities with the university's president. The Board of Trustees itself will be enlarged and diversified to include recent graduates, non-alumni, and women. At the time of the announcement of the new plan, five non-alumni were named to the board, including two women and two black trustees. Under the new plan, seniors in the university may vote and be nominated in alumni trustee elections. The board, in the process of restructuring, has enlarged itself from 29 to 35 members to guarantee at least three recent graduate trustees.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

NOW
“A Riot of Sexual Vandalism”
“You Must See it to Believe it” —Playboy
“Important Film... treats Sex and its Perversions with honesty” —Herald-Examiner
“The orgies go on forever” —N.Y. Daily News
“Not for everyone” —Daily Variety

KEIR DULLEA
SENTA BERGER
LILLI PALMER
ANNA MASSEY
SONJA ZIEMANN
JOHN HUSTON

Persons under 16 not admitted.