Page Four — April 18, 1969 The Davidsonian

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, April 18
10 a.m. Assembly: Dr. Paul Lehmann, Union
3 p.m. Assembly: Dr. Lehmann, Morrison Room
8 p.m. Movie: “Falstaff,” Morrison Room

Saturday, April 19
8 p.m. Movie: “Falstaff,” Morrison Room

Sunday, April 20
6 p.m. College Bowl: Davidson vs. Skidmore, Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Concert: Elaine Richie and Janet Pummill, Morrison Room

Monday, April 21
8:15 p.m. Male Chorus Concert, Morrison Room

Tuesday, April 22
7:30 p.m. Free University, Morrison Room
8:30 p.m. Southern Folk Festival, Morrison Room

Wednesday, April 23
11 a.m. Humanities Films: “Nightmare In Red” and “Lenin And Trotsky,” Perkins Aud.
8 p.m. Movie: “Mondo Cane,” Morrison Room

Thursday, April 24
10 a.m. Assembly: Leroy Washington, Director, Washington, D.C. Concentrated Employment Program, Morrison Room
8 p.m. Movie: “Mondo Cane,” Morrison Room
9 p.m. Open End, Morrison Room

Friday, April 25
6 p.m. AAUP Banquet, Morrison Room

Saturday, April 26
All Day Graduate Record Exam, Morrison Room

AAUP Looks At Faculty Salaries
By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Davidson's chapter of the American Association of University Professors is an infrequently mentioned group on campus. Nevertheless, a number of
faculty members are active members of the association, an independent, national organization of college teaching personnel.

According to local AAUP vice-president Dr. Alan Brinkley, the Davidson chapter is fairly active. “We've had about five or six
meetings this year other than business ones,” Brinkley said. He observed that in the past the chapter had joined professors
at other institutions in urging the repeal of North Carolina's speaker ban law. “The chapter has endorsed the effort to
add several black members to the faculty, and we are working on a possible proposal under which Davidson professors would
be placed on loan by the college to black institutions such as Johnson C. Smith, with salaries paid by Davidson
in order to free the black institutions to finance more graduate study by their professors,” Brinkley said.

The members of the local chapter usually prefer to work for their goals as individuals on commissions or faculty committees
rather than using the AAUP as a group. Brinkley speculated that the group might attempt to engage in collective recommendations
after the Spencer commissions’ investigating various aspects of campus life release their findings. The group may also examine the oath
of Christian belief required by Davidson’s hiring policy, considering it in light of a 1940 AAUP statement on academic freedom
at church-related institutions, Brinkley said.

One of the important functions of the chapter is the gathering of data on faculty salaries at Davidson. These are
submitted to the national AAUP organization which publishes reports on faculty remuneration. “These reports are very important when the college
is trying to recruit top-notch faculty personnel, particularly since they have wide circulation among many in the teaching professions,” said
Brinkley. “Unfortunately, we have studies which show that last year for the first time in several years Davidson's faculty compensation
did not grow as fast as did the cost of living. But we show up very well in the reports,
as Davidson's salaries are among the highest for small, non-public institutions.”

The fact that salaries at Davidson are relatively high appears to be one reason for a lack of more activity
among the AAUP. “Most people feel the situation here is good, so the chapter has little dissatisfaction with money matters.”

Organizations Meet At Center
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The community center recently remodeled by Davidson's Piedmont Area Development Association is already being used by several local groups as
a meeting place.

Counselors Appointed

Twenty-two hall counselors for next year were selected this week by a committee under Student Housing Director Mrs. Peter Nicholls.
Eight are seniors and 14 are juniors. They were chosen from 53 applicants after one applicant withdrew.

Hall Counselors for Cannon will be Emerson Well (basement), George Haknen and Dan Herd (first floor), Tim Hindman and Mac
Gillis (second floor), Jerry Dean and Lewis Tabb (third floor), and Jack Jacobs and John Bolte (fourth floor). Belk dorm
hall counselors will be John Brooks (basement), Kim Griffith and Alan Kirkpatrick (first floor), Dave Wasserman and David Sweatt (second
floor), John Broner and Greg Scott (third floor), and Rand Coble and Mort Chiles (fourth floor). Watts hall counselors will
be Mike Elliott and Floyd Strand (third floor) and Jimmy Trussell and James Parks (fourth floor).

The Mayor's Committee on Community Relations has scheduled an open meeting at the center for the first Monday in May,
according to Mrs. Mildred Lowery, a committee member and past president of the PADA. The center is open to Student
Tutorial Education Program tutors and tutees at any time, as well as to children and teens of the community, Mrs.
Lowery said. The West Davidson Boy Scouts also meet there regularly.

The center on West Griffin Street, given to the PADA by the Davidson YMCA and painted by two fraternity pledge
classes from the college, was repaired and refurnished by the Davidson black community under the direction of the black-led PADA.

The PADA is now trying to obtain game sets and baseball uniforms and equipment for the use of children at
the center. Another project planned by the group is to provide the community with attractive and conveniently placed garbage containers
on each block. The civic organization hopes to obtain enough money from the sale of a rowboat donated by Roosevelt
Wilson to finance the project.

In addition to these projects, the PADA works to find jobs for unemployed workers and youth.

ARS NOVA Frolics Entertainment For Friday, May 2

Husband-Wife Art Show Is ‘Unexpectedly Fresh’
A REVIEW
By PHIL RINER
Staff Writer

On display last week in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building is a collection of paintings and drawings by Edwin F.
Shewmate and sculptures by his wife. The sculptures by Mrs. Shewmate depict mostly the human forms. In several of her
works, the employment of broad planes and simple lines create what at first may appear to be oversimplifications.

(Staff Photo by Davidson)
SCULPTURE BY MITZI SHEWMAKE
Paintings by Edwin Shewmake also on display in Cunningham.

Southern Folk Festival Will Appear In Concert

The Southern Folk Festival, a group of indigenous Southern folk artists, is to be presented here in concert.

Paper Receives Writing Awards

THE DAVIDSONIAN re-Received three Honorable Mentions in the Southeastern College Newspaper Competition sponsored by Hollins College this spring. The awards
were in news writing, which was won by the Old Gold and Black of Wake Forest; editorial pages, Paul Lehmann
Speaks Today By TOM SINKS Staff Writer Dr. Paul Lehmann, professor of theology at Union Theological Seminary in New York,
will speak in an assembly in the Morrison Room at 10 a.m. and will be in the Morrison Room to
speak with interested students at 3 p.m. He is also planning to address several religion classes at noon. Lehmann is
well known as a teacher and writer. He has written one book, “Ethics in the Christian Context.” He is an
expert on the writings of Karl Barth, and is adept at speaking on revolutionary activities in South America, according to
college chaplain Scott Woodmansee. Lehmann has taught at many colleges and universities. He was chairman of the Religion Department at
Elmhurst College for several years. He has also taught at Eden Theological Seminary, Wellesley College, Princeton Theological Seminary, and the
Harvard Divinity School. Since 1963 he has been a professor of Systematic Theology at the Union Theological Seminary in New
York. Lehmann received his B.A. from Ohio State University in 1927. He was awarded a Th.D. from Eden Theological Seminary
in 1936 and a D.D. from Lawrence College in 1960. In which first place went to the Emory Wheel of
Emory University; and feature writing, which was won by the Vanderbilt Hustler. Judges praised DAVIDSONIAN staffers for their editorial page.
“Their crusading zeal is strong and their causes admirable. And they haven't lost faith that ‘the system’ can be made
responsive to the needs of all." Judging is done by professional newspapers in each category, and the awards are announced
by Hollins. Evaluation covers the first portion of the 1968-69 academic year. Numerically, no college newspaper received more awards than
THE DAVIDSONIAN. Tuesday afternoon and night. Performers range from mountain clog dancers through a North Carolina mule skinner to a
Negro street singer, and the music from unaccompanied ballads and slave songs to the sacred music of black and white
Southern churches. Those in the program include: —Elizabeth Cotton, who wrote “Freight Train,” a singer and guitar player; —Alice and
Hazel, who sing mountain ballads from West Virginia and bluegrass and old-time country music; —Bessie Jones, who sings slave songs,
religious songs, and work songs handed down through her family; —and banjo picking, buck dancing Red Parham and Bill McElreath.
The program, which is open to the town as well as the college community, will begin with a late afternoon
workshop on the Union porch. A lawn concert is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of Chambers.
The festival was presented last spring, and was well received, according to Union Board Chairman Jim May. BASS CLEANERS Lowest
Rates In Town! 24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N. C. “closed all day Wednesday” He characterized the
festival as a “relaxed, do your own thing type affair.” Just as Horace wrote the simply structured “Odes” without pasting
a sword, Mrs. Shewmake uses lines and planes to capture the essence of her subject. One of the more interesting
pieces is “Kneeling Figure,” a striking example of her style and technique. Using cement, a somewhat clumsy medium, Mrs. Shewmake
abstracts the human body, over-emphasizing the minor parts while placing no emphasis on the more important areas of interest such
as the head. The result is an unexpected freshness and interest in the work. Mrs. Shewmake also employs relief sculpture
in her part of the show. In the “Cocktail Party” and “Conversation” she reinforces her broad planes and simple lines
with Egyptian figure poses. The employment of classic poses endows the shapes with the rigid qualities common to that period.
Some of her work can also be interpreted as social comment, such as “The Preacher” and “The Doctor,” but the
final decision must be left up to the viewer. Mr. Shewmake is predominantly a painter, although his better works are
his three etchings “Trees,” “Wedding,” and “Flowers.” “Trees” employs successfully a man-made texture to create a scene in nature. “Wedding”
carries the gloom and pomposity of that infamous institution, marriage. Probably the best of all his works in the show
is “Flowers.” This etching shows Spirits of Spring coming down to become flowers on waiting stems. Many of Mr. Shewmake’s
works on show are drawings which are more easily understood as studies for final pieces than as works of art
themselves. Some of Mr. Shewmake’s paintings show a style similar to that of his wife’s sculpture. Many of Mr. Shewmake’s
paintings have the same simple depictions of the human figure as does Mrs. Shewmake’s sculpture. This can be seen easily
in “From the Balcony” and “Seated Woman.” Other pieces of Mr. Shewmake’s work have no resemblance to his wife’s or
to his other work. “Charles Laughton,” “Little Women,” and “Race” all have different styles and techniques. Mr. Shewmake’s versatility can
best be appreciated by a comparison of “Little Women” and “Seated Woman.” “Little Women” is not a depiction of human
figures but instead a series of circles and diamonds which when viewed with the idle mind becomes a chorus line.
On the other hand, “Seated Woman” is a unique observation of a nude whose basic lines would divide the canvas
much the same way as one would cut a pie. Together Mr. and Mrs. Shewmake have compiled an interesting and
varied show. Edwin Shewmake is head of the art department at Salem College. His wife Mitzi also teaches. HUNTERSVILLE-FORD SALES
AND SERVICE 875-6547 VESTED INTEREST Tradition in the making: our Brigadier Worsteds answer the vestman’s prayer for summerweight wear. Woven
to our exclusive order, this cool, comfortable weave of 65% Dacron and 35% Wool Worsted is colored and patterned with
a correctly bold-but-not-brash air. Tailored naturally. 80.00 and 85.00 Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist
