The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO OCTOBER 10, 1969

Moratorium

One of the serious communication problems in today’s world is the tendency on each person’s part to listen without hearing.
Being so concerned about his personal response to the conversation, the individual often fails to hear what is being said.

To bring the problem into microcosm, such is the case with student reaction to Davidson's participation in the Vietnam Moratorium.

Protest? In essence, the moratorium is not. An infringement on freedom? Again it is not. Students have been so busy
reacting to the faculty decision to suspend classes that they have failed to grasp the full meaning of the Davidson
action.

To be sure the Davidson moratorium was spearheaded by those opposed to the Vietnam war. But it was not designed
as a protest. It was planned as a confrontation of personal and community feelings regarding the war.

The moratorium is no more an infringement on personal freedom than was the opening convocation. Classes were lost in that
program, too, and the thought presented was again controversial. As in the convocation, the moratorium program will merely present the
idea. It is up to the student to formulate his own viewpoint, and it is up to the academic community
to provide the opportunity for that confrontation.

Had the Davidson faculty voted to support the national moratorium, with its day of protest and door-bell ringing, then perhaps
the student would have no grounds for objection. Then the school would be endorsing a statement not wholeheartedly supported by
its students. But the Davidson action is not a protest. Some of the letters received this week reveal that students
have failed to take note of that fact. Students simply have failed to listen to what the faculty was saying
in its call for the suspension of classes. They are rejecting the opportunity to confront the problem head-on.

Those who have cried the loudest for relevance in education are now casting negative glances on the school’s biggest attempt
to meet that challenge. It is a great effort to fulfill what Rutgers President Mason Gross called “the role of
the university as teacher, as guardian of civilized values and as the critical and moral intelligence which compels the community
to ponder its courses of action.”

Upset by the war in Vietnam? Then turn off the stereo, put down the week’s Life magazine and get out
of bed and do something.

Laurence Gould, president emeritus of Carleton College, singularly summarized the support for an active response: “I do not believe that
the greatest threat to our future is from bombs or guided missiles. I don’t think our civilization will die that
way. I think it will die when we no longer care.

“Arnold Toynbee has pointed out that 19 of 21 civilizations have died from within and not by conquest from without.
There were no bands playing and flags waving whenreceive in mid-career. These men are performing a useful service for the
nation, and taxpayers should take an interest in the education they receive. There is no doubt in my mind, however,
that one of the reasons (not the ‘focal point’) for the trip from the standpoint of Ft. Leavenworth personnel was
to ‘soft sell’ the idea of an M.A. program at the Command and General Staff College. My positive impressions of
the trip, which I specifically related to your reporter, were the following: (1.) I was impressed with one course I
observed on “Communism in Selected Countries.” The instructor (See CORRECTION, Page 4) (as distinct from hard acceptance of both victory
and defeat. Why must education be locked up in the classroom? Why not combine the classroom and working experience? For
a long time, student teaching has been seen as valuable—let’s expand this program to other departments. Antioch College (in Ohio,
for those who know of nothing above the Mason-Dixon line) alternates semesters in the classroom and out working. The students
learn by doing. Wouldn't a student interested in drama be more likely to come to Davidson if he could get
credit for performances—whether at Davidson or Broadway? Perhaps then, a science major could do research—and whether or not he discovered
something or not—has he not learned? Should he not receive credit? First-hand experience, it seems, is the key which frees
education from the classroom. A detailed analysis of a program like Antioch's, with experimentation where needed, might just help support
the Blue Sky, keep it from falling in, and once again let the sun shine on Davidson education.

Kurt Geisinger ‘72
Davidson College

On Feminine Virtues

The subject of my diatribe is the existence, and perhaps growth, of an insidious menace on this campus. It is
a special-interest minority group that seized headlines over the summer with audacious acts that threaten to put the whole of
our American system in jeopardy. This group is characterized by its ruthless thirst for power and desire to destroy valued
traditions. It attacks much of what has made America great. No one has to tell J. Edgar that they threaten
our national security. They are aggressive and will stop at nothing. I refer, of course, to the Women’s Liberation Movement.
This group made headlines this summer by a number of acts that border on treason. They shamefully disrupted the Miss
America pageant, symbol of all that is wholesome, good, and true in American womanhood, by burning bras and girdles on
the Atlantic City boardwalk. These so-called demonstrators for “liberation” revealed their trite colors by chanting such neo-Marxist slogans as “Women
of the world arise. You have nothing to lose but your underwear.” This is nothing compared to the demonstrations on
the west coast. I will not sully the pages of this family newspaper by recounting events that occurred and were
reported by the press. This is a sad chapter in the history of women in America, and it is sad
that it came now, just when women were beginning to make real progress in learning their place in society. Now,
of course, all the gains of the last two centuries will be wiped out in a wave of backlash. If
only women had proceeded moderately and had been satisfied with what they had, all these problems could have been avoided.
Women were doing very well as long as they did those things that they are naturally suited for. Of course,
they began to establish organizations, but most of them had a good purpose. So long as women occupied themselves with
wholesome womanly pursuits, such as bearing children, cleaning house, reading Ann Landers, and going to DAR meetings, most Americans had
nothing against them. But then they began a scarcely-concealed drive for power. They entered business and industry and have so
thoroughly infiltrated it that now they have intimate access to the seats of power. Not a businessman in America is
without a secretary who is even now conspiring to overthrow him and destroy all that we hold dear. This new
drive for so-called “woman’s rights” is nothing but a thinly-disguised attempt at ruining the very fabric of American society. Needless
to say, the most overt threat the “Women’s Liberation Movement” poses is to the garment industry. Business reports show that
Berkeley department stores no longer stock these items that were once the foundations of the American system. We at Davidson
will play a vital role in the fight against this movement. Because we represent a stronghold of power, we must
be on guard for traitors in our midst, as we will surely be a target of this movement. Eternal vigilance
is the price of masculine superiority.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Call Moratorium Infringement Of Freedom

To the Editor:

I am writing to express my disappointment in the faculty’s decision to suspend classes on October 15. As I understand
it, this day is to be set aside for serious reflection on our role in Southeast Asia, and for earnest
prayer for a lasting peace. This in itself is commendable. What I do object to is the fact that by
choosing October 15 for this purpose, Davidson College is associating itself with a nationwide protest against the war. As a
member of the Davidson College community, I feel that my individual rights would be imposed upon by this relationship. I
support President Nixon's efforts to bring about a satisfactory conclusion to our actions in Vietnam, and cannot in good conscience
be associated in any way with a nationwide protest. The national coordinators plan for a one-day moratorium in October, two
days in November, three days in December, and on and on ad nauseam. Davidson College surely will not cooperate with
this plan, so why associate ourselves with this movement to begin with? What I hope can be done is to
respectfully request the faculty, on behalf of people like me, to reschedule this day of meditation. I do not see
how any student or faculty member could object to such a plan.

Robert N. Buchanan ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The faculty of Davidson College has taken bold, drastic action in an all-out effort to end the war in Vietnam.
Seeing daily death and destruction, these brave men have cried, “Enough! Let's stop this thing right now.” And to back
up their words with stiff concrete action they have suspended classes for one day. Lest some suspect this is not
earth-shattering, there is a story from Duke University where students were asked to support a non-academic workers strike against poverty
wages by a class boycott. Speaking for many of his colleagues, famed historian Joel Colton declared; “Oh, we support the
workers all right. But I don’t know if we could go along with that.” When you ask a professor to
suspend classes, you're asking him to give up something that’s sacred to him. A Vietnamese peasant, informed of the faculty
action, remarked, “That's very nice. Perhaps the bombing will not be so heavy tomorrow and fewer of my countrymen will
be killed. Meanwhile, though, I'm going to join the Viet Cong and fight for my freedom.” In Washington at a
defense meeting, an unidentified businessman remarked “It certainly gives me something to think about. I will join them in praying
for peace—yes, it is true that we just contracted to build 200 new rocket launching helicopters at a cost of...”
But do not fear, guardians of the trusted way. All is not insanity at the Presbyterian institution. Sources indicate that
by November, if death and destruction have not ended, the faculty will give up this commitment and return to normalcy.
It is only a phase they're going through. “You've gotta sing loud if you want to end war and stuff.”
Arlo Guthrie said that.

Marvin Sparrow
Charlotte, N. C.

To the Editor:

The October 15 moratorium plans to show mass support for the antiwar cause when probably only a small portion of
students are conscientiously involved in the protest. I say this because I would estimate that maybe 10% of the students
in this country are conscientiously opposed to the war to the degree of making an overt protest. In a classroom
boycott, however, this 10% will be augmented by another 80% who are equally or more interested in a free cut.
I imagine that I would fit easily in the latter category, but now that I’ve been forbidden to attend class
on the 15th, I protest. President Nixon has made some very distinct moves to (See MORATORIUM, P. 4)
