THE SUN AND FUN CAPITAL OF THE CAMPUS

In just a few minutes you'll begin that thousand-word theme that's due Monday, write your grandmother in Ohio as you've been promising her you will for the last five weeks, plan your big date for next weekend, and read those eight days of reading assignments for Humanities that you've never done. But can’t all that wait for just a minute? A fellow needs to do a little something once in a while to unwind, doesn't he?

ACLU Deplores All Coercion, Urges Free, Creative Thought

The American Civil Liberties Union has expressed concern over some of the methods employed by student activists, but at the same time called on administrations to institute greater faculty and student participation in decisions on educational policy. “We are committed to the protection of all peaceful, non-obstructive forms of protest, including mass demonstrations, picketing, rallies, and other dramatic forms,” one statement said. The statement labels the shouting down of speakers, physical takeovers of buildings, and incarceration of administrators as incompatible with the nature and purpose of an educational institution. “When men govern themselves they have a right to decide for themselves which views and proposals are sound and which are unsound,” the statement asserted. “This means that all points of view are entitled to be expressed and heard. This is particularly true in universities which render great services to society when they function as centers of free, uncoerced, independent, and creative thought and experience. Abandoning the democratic process endangers freedom in future social orders as well as the present one,” the statement said.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SPRING TERM 1968-'69

Saturday, May 31
a.m. Fifth hour (2-2:50) classes
p.m. Third hour (11-11:50) classes

Monday, June 2
a.m. Seventh hour (4-4:50) classes
p.m. Sections (10-10:50) classes

Tuesday, June 3
a.m. Fourth hour (12-12:50) classes
p.m. First hour (8-8:50) classes

Wednesday, June 4
a.m. Sixth hour (3-3:50) classes
p.m. Second hour (9-9:50) classes

Morning exams are given at 9, afternoon exams at 2, in the regular classroom for the class.

Restrictive Foundation

The tendency to curtail criticism was criticized in the statement as inflammatory and technically not a commitment to free speech.

Student Exchange Limited in Education Consortium

By BILL SHERWOOD
Staff Writer

The Charlotte Area Educational Consortium is an association of nine colleges and universities in the Charlotte vicinity. These schools are Barber-Scotia College, Belmont Abbey College, Central Piedmont Community College, Davidson College, Gaston College, Johnson C. Smith University, Queens College, and UNC Charlotte. The idea behind the Consortium is to enable a student at a particular school to commute daily to another college in the Consortium so that he can take a certain course for credit, which is not offered on his home campus. The Consortium does not involve any type of student exchange in which a person would live on another campus for a period of time.

New Y Plans Program For North Mecklenburg

By STEVE CROSS
Asst. Managing Editor

“We'd very much like to see the Davidson YMCA put behind it,” said Davidson insurance man Robert T. Sloane, when asked about the proposed North Mecklenburg YMCA. According to Sloane, the communities in this part of Mecklenburg County have good recreational facilities, and the new YMCA does not intend to take them over. Instead, the new YMCA program intends to supplement them, especially for children on summer vacation. The North Mecklenburg YMCA was planned for a minimum program for preschool children, and eventually, they may build their own facility, which would probably include a swimming pool, his-

Professors Plan Lunchtable Talks

By STEVE CROSS
Asst. Managing Editor

A program has been set up by Chaplain Scott Woodmansee under which certain faculty members will meet in the College Union Cafeteria to discuss a specified topic over lunch with interested students. According to a statement issued by Woodmansee, “The purpose of this is twofold: to allow for informal discussion on a pre-arranged topic, and to increase the opportunities for contact with the faculty.”

Furor Over Stopping Federal Aid To Students Hides Weak Measures

From The Chronicle Of Higher Education

The initial excitement over the recent Congressional ban on Federal aid to disruptive college students has begun to wane, these laws are being increasingly scrutinized. With the dying headlines has come the realization that the restrictions might be quite worthless. The major problem lies in the language of the laws themselves. Even in its early stages, the first proposed federal law was warning of the danger that the laws, in an effort to appease the authorities of higher education, might be so worded as to be unenforceable. Most of the debate seems to center on the responsibility placed on each institution. They are merely given some of the same options that already existed for them. For example, the amended Higher Education Act gives institutions the power to determine whether a student has been convicted of a “serious” crime that “contributed to substantial disruption” of their administration. The law does not require the institutions to make such a determination. Another problem is that it might be quite difficult to determine how any student grants or loans would be traced to funds directly covered by the prohibitive legislation.

AAUP Will Help Uphold Students

Five major education associations, at least one of which is represented on the Davidson campus, have begun what they term a “crash program” to promote student rights. These associations are putting up a joint commission to supplement a policy of student rights that was terminated by the previous two years. Robert W. Morse, an official of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) which is represented here on campus, said that the commission will hold foundation meetings in order to help them promote student rights. Also represented on the commission are the U.S. National Student Association, the Association of American Colleges, the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators, and the National Association of Women Deans and Counselors. The commission seeks to guarantee freedom of classroom expression, protection from capricious judgment, and a student role in the formulation of official educational policy. Much of this confusion was either ignored or glossed over in early publicity about the rulings. One Washington newspaper ran a page one banner headline proclaiming “Student Rioters To Lose Federal Aid” with a sureness that the actual situation did not support. Press publicity and administration comment on the restrictions seemed designed to suppress the matter on the street with the fact.

Weltner To Speak Tuesday

By GENE LINTON
Staff Writer

Former Congressman Charles L. Weltner of Atlanta, GA will speak in the voluntary assembly program on Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. in a place to be announced. Weltner represented the Fifth Congressional District of Georgia in the United States House of Representatives from 1963-1967, but refused to run for office again on the same ticket with the controversial Governor Lester Maddox in 1966. On the fall of 1968, Weltner ran again for office last year but lost in a narrow margin. He currently practices law in Atlanta. A graduate of Oglethorpe College and Columbia University Law School, Weltner has also received an honorary LLD degree from Tulane University in 1965. In 1966, he published “Southerner” through Lippincott & Company.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

But the Nixon administration intends to crack down on disruptive practices on the campuses of the nation. On March 2, President Nixon delivered a public statement on the bans that in places seemed fairly strict. He asserted that campus disruption endangered educational freedom by opening students and their institutions to be politicized. He said, “It is not too strong a statement to declare that this is the way empires begin to die.” Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Robert H. Finch wrote a letter to college presidents explaining the intent of the laws. In this letter, he touched on some of the difficulties arising in the legislation. He said, “Under this legislation, the burden of administration falls upon the institutions. We in HEW will do our best to work with you in this difficult area.”

In essence, the statement that arises out of this sees the major weakness. Each professor in the program will eat lunch in the Union Cafeteria at 1 p.m. on the specified day, and any interested students should simply gather around his table to talk about the scheduled topic, or a different topic if the group wishes to. On April 16, Prof. W. E. Jackson will discuss “The Proposed ABM System.” On April 23, Dr. E. F. Patterson will analyze “The Poverty Program,” followed the next day by Dr. W. O. Puckett on “The Prospects of Modern Medical Science.” Dr. David Grant will talk about “Man and the Sea” on April 30. Dr. Randel Kincaid plans to lead the discussion of “The Stock Market Situation” on May 7. On May 8, Dr. Brent Patterson will join interested students in a discussion of “The Ideal College.” On May 9, Dr. T. A. Williams will explain “How to Be Surreal.” The following day, Dr. William Hight will reflect on “Problems in Education.” On May 21, Dr. Benjamin Walker will talk about “Popular Media and Artistic Form.”

Youth Fare Fate Still Doubtful

The fate of airline Youth Fare—for the moment anyway—is in the hands of the five-man Civil Aeronautics Board. The C.A.B. members are currently weighing the pros and cons argued last week by friends and foes of the special discount fares. Since other matters may take priority, and potential implications of the decision will be pursued, it is not certain when a decision will be made. Meanwhile, Youth Fare lives. Even then, a court change or new evidence would mean a reprieve for young travelers.

Let us freshen your impression for the Spring Weekend Parties. Bring us your shirts, too! Jackson Cleaners Just beyond The Coffee Cup Depot St.

Reball courts, Indian Guide troops, and perhaps in the last run adult education classes and an industrial management club. About a year ago, a group of Davidson citizens interested in this project approached George E. Simmons, Executive Director of the Charlotte YMCA, to explore the possibilities of forming a YMCA branch in northern Mecklenburg County. Since then, the committee has been compiling surveys of all the community and the programs in this part of the county, and Wednesday a subcommittee of the group interviewed three candidates for the office of secretary for the new branch. “We hope to employ the secretary by June 1,” said Mr. Stone, “But we haven't found office space for him yet.” Stone added that the group was planning a fund-raising drive in the near future.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, April 11
10 a.m. Assembly: Alevia Alarminet, Rose Morrison Recital “The Name of the Game is Spit”

Saturday, April 12
8 p.m. FOV: Maurtrisan Recital “The Name of the Game is Spit”

Tuesday, April 15
10 a.m. Assembly: Morrison Brown Mr. Charles Weiner, Former Congressman from Vermont
7:30 p.m. Free University Classes Chambers Bldg.

Thursday, April 17
Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey
8 p.m. Fine Arts “The Silence” Love Aud.

Hobbie Predicts Faculty Passage

SGA President Peter Hobbie said that the SGA Constitution will probably be approved by the faculty without further revision. His optimism was shared by Dr. R. David Kaylor, associate professor of religion and member of the Student Life Committee. “I expect that the constitution will be accepted by the committee and passed by the faculty,” Kaylor said. Kaylor said that the abolition of the Court of Appeals had canceled his previous objections to the constitution. The Student Life Committee meets today, but Kaylor was not sure whether the constitution would be discussed at this meeting. Hobbie mentioned that the Student Life Committee had suggested three changes in wording which would clarify but not alter the content of the document. Kaylor termed these changes “insignificant” and indicated that they would probably not be made until constitutional questions of a more serious nature were raised.

The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Whar-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

HUNTERSVILLE-FORD SALES AND SERVICE
875-6547

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. - CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

It deals with faculty exchange or sharing. There are several problems which representatives of the nine schools must iron out before the program can go into effect. One deals with the cost of courses. For example, it costs $30 to take a course at UNC-C, but at Davidson it costs $163. Another problem is that of the curriculum setup. Some of the institutions are on the semester system while others are on the quarter system. The Consortium has not been officially approved at any of the schools. For Davidson to accept it and be able to put it into effect, the Consortium must be approved by the Educational Policy Committee and by the faculty.

Location Of Library Uncertain

By CHRIS BICKLEY
Staff Writer

The Faculty Administration Committee on the new library has been unable to reach a decision on the location of the proposed library because the question of coeducation has not been resolved. Whether the college decides to set up a coeducational freshman class, admit girls as regular Davidson students, or not admit girls at all, will affect the location as well as the size of the new library.

Several locations have been proposed for the new library building. The trustees specified the Lingle Manor site this year, but the tract across Concord Road from the present library, a site where the Union is now, and a location between Chambers and the Guest House are also being mentioned. The college has commissioned the Academy for Educational Development of New York to do a complete campus survey by this summer. This educational consulting firm will be looking into all phases of future Davidson growth, and plans for a new library will be included in their work. The library question was thought settled last year when the trustees chose the Lingle Manor site, but the board reopened consideration at its October meeting.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-149

DACRON® AND WORSTED SUITS in traditional styling

These are the summer suits men are talking about. You'll feel as well as look fresh and cool this summer—confident that this 55% Dacron® and 45% Worsted combination is wrinkle resistant through the hottest day. In an endless variety of imported and domestic fabrics and colors that will satisfy men of all ages. Rich new plaids, solids, and stripes in the authentic natural shoulder $75.00 to $100.00

Rush Wilson Ltd
Davidson, N.C.