Page Six February 14, 1969

Campus asked: ‘What do you think of the recent walk-out strategy in protest of required assembly?”

Leonard Tyson, Senior: "I was in favor of the walk-out, and I am in favor of additional walk-outs provided that
they are intra-campus actions. I think that extra-campus guests should be respected. I do feel that compulsory chapel is detrimental
to a student’s sense of responsibility, and my suggested solution is to require faculty attendance at chapel or forget the
whole thing.”

Cecil Burney, Freshman: "There is always room on a college campus for peaceful dissent, but I always feel that students
should work through their elected representatives on the Senate and on other student government agencies to bring about the change
which they seek.”

E. F. Patterson, Professor of Economics: "I'm in favor of the use of non-violent means to bring about change. Therefore,
I think students were exercising their right to peaceful non-violent protest even under circumstances that might appear impolite or out
of order to institutions against which the protest was being carried out."

J. F. Drake, Professor of Sociology: "It's a matter of opinion and a matter of judgment which device is of
value to accomplish certain goals. Whether a group wants to go through the regularly constituted channels or use some other
device depends largely on how soon they want to accomplish the end.”

Lecturer Seeks Social Activism
By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Asst. Managing Editor

Leon Howell, a Martin lecturer, spoke Wednesday night in the Morrison Room on the general necessity of social activism and
responsiveness in American society. Howell, a 1957 graduate of Davidson, addressed an audience of about 50 people, a large part
of whom were faculty members. Having served in several international organizations, he has had contact with students in many parts
of the world. He is presently an associate editor of “Christianity and Crisis” magazine.

Talking about Davidson, Howell remarked that it is “no worse than other Southern schools. Some of the best, most exciting
friends I have in Washington are Davidson graduates. Then again, my 10th anniversary annual was as big an embarrassment to
me as my wife’s annual from Duke was to her. One does have to work harder here to really understand
what is going on in critical areas," he added. "For instance, I am appalled at how little of the outside
world is discussed in THE DAVIDSONIAN."

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
Brown Patterson 412 Concord

(Continued From Page 1)
Members of the committee sanctioned by the Senate are Jewett, Mac Davis, Dan Herd, Todd Hobbie, former SGA President Joe
Murphy, John Williams, and English Professor Frank W. Bliss. SGA President Peter Hobbie will act in an advisory capacity.

“I think this experiment will clarify debate on co-education and stimulate the life of the college,” Jewett said.

The visitation committee has been broken down into four subcommittees, he said. Murphy and Bliss are responsible for planning both
academic and social activities, and Todd Hobbie heads a group working on eating and living arrangements.

Davidsonian Staff
Bob Dunham and Frank Anderson Editors-Elect
Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE
Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF
Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT
Copy Editor:
BIFF FINE
News Editor:
STEVE WILLIAMS
Contributors this week:
Jim Philips, Steve Roady, Danny White, John Rowe, David Grisset, Robert Elliott, Joe Smith, Chris Bickley, Dick Anderson, Jule Young,
Jim Cooley, Mark Hodges, Bob Wallace, George Allen, Dan Graham, A. W. Turner, Alex Gordon, and Charlie Terrell.

Free University Are Qualified Deadline Today
The following students and faculty were Registration for the winter term of the Free University remains open until 5 p.m.
at the Union even if a course limit has been reached prior to that time. “Last term the response to
the program was so great that we had over 400 registrations for 200 places in the courses,” said sophomore Richard
Cowart, chairman of the Free University Coordinating Committee.

Negro Scholar Unnamed
By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

The recipient of Davidson's Negro Scholarship Fund is still undetermined according to former SGA president Joe Murphy. Action will not
be taken on the award until later this year. Murphy stated that “Davidson has had more Negro applicants this year
than any year before — I understand that there are now 19 applications from black students." Murphy said that the
scholarship would probably be given to one student for his entire four years at Davidson. In Murphy's words, “The scholarship
will probably be used to replace the need for the black student to accept the college financial aid office’s usual
$500 loan.” He noted that the amount raised in the fund drive was not enough to completely underwrite a black
student's expenses at Davidson, but that one stumbling block to the lower-income is the difficulty in repaying college-incurred financial burdens,
a problem which would be lessened with the use of scholarship money. Murphy said he hoped that the fact that
students raised the money for the scholarship would demonstrate that students at Davidson went sincerely beyond tokenism in their interest
toward blacks.

Free U. registration is set up this time to favor those who have not previously participated in the program.AT THE
GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

Free U. registration is set up this time to favor those students who were unable to attend the first registering
day. After a pre-determined number of students are accepted in a course, then all persons registering are placed on a
separate list. From this list, the rest of the class are accepted at random in each course. No course is
"closed" until registration is complete.

This term Rev. Will Terry, pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, will teach a course on the nature of
pornography. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college, will teach "The Negro in American Society, 1865-1940." Other courses
will include Cinema as Art; Senior Life-saving; the Development of Armored Equipment and Theory; Sex, Dating and Marriage; Fantasy as
Art; Guitar—Theory and Practice; The Art and Practice of Photography; Great Decisions 1969; Personal Finance; Auto Mechanics; Beyond Conception (the
population explosion); Bridge (the card game), and Experimental Education (programs such as the Free University).

Renovation Continued By PADA
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The Davidson Piedmont Area Development Association is making steady progress on the renovation of its Community Center on West Griffin
St., 1969 PADA President James Raeford said. The local civic group has already spent $300 on a new roof, floor,
steps, and other repairs for the building, but there is still much work to be done. The PADA is seeking
donations or help toward the purchase of tables, chairs, books, a record player, and a TV set for the center.
Money for furnace repair and gas service is also needed. Pledges of three Davidson College fraternities, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kappa
Sigma, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, have volunteered to paint the building inside and out, said Mrs. Mildred Lowery, past president
of the PADA. "We'll have to find a way to get some paint first, though," she said.

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Jade East After Shave from $3.00, Cologne from $3.80; and latest, as an alternate fragrance, try Jade East Coral and
Jade East Golden Lime. SWANK, INC.—Sole Distributor. If she doesn't give it to you, get it yourself!

By MARK HODGES
Staff Writer

The law is "a web so interwoven of overlapping laws" that a broad knowledge of law is necessary in order
to specialize, according to a member of the panel of lawyers which answered students’ questions pertaining to the profession at
a forum last Monday night in the Morrison Room. The forum was attended by 75 students who listened to and
questioned the presentations of a panel of prominent Charlotte lawyers. The nine-man panel was made up of: Bob Blythe, Ros
Smyth, Buddy Liles, Julius Chambers, Louis Fogleman, Mark Bernstein, Mark Edwards, Edgar Love, and John Hasty. Smyth served as moderator
of the panel. Each lawyer gave a short presentation on his particular interest or specialty in law. The panel members
represented the various types of law practices such as trial law, corporate law, and civil rights law. After these presentations,
students in the audience asked questions of the members of the panel.

Several members of the panel asserted that the vast superiority of the so-called national law schools, e.g., Yale, Harvard, or
Duke, over the state law schools is a myth. Most state law schools, they asserted, are now on nearly a
par with the national schools. Julius Chambers, a member of the panel, said that the only real difference he found
between the U.N.C. and Columbia University law schools is that "one is in Chapel Hill and the other is in
New York." In discussing what makes a successful student in law school, Ros Smyth pointed out that he thought the
best qualification was the capacity for hard work and, of course, an interest in the law. In response to a
question concerning specialization in a certain type of law in law school, one member of the panel warned that specialization
in law school is unwise.

Chapel (Continued From Page 1)

The Senate passed a resolution condemning compulsory chapel and called for a study of the matter. Because of uncertainties raised
by the changing of the student and faculty constitutions, a committee was not appointed until last Monday. In the meantime,
assemblies were increasingly plagued by students’ raucous conduct. The situation came to a head when students staged a walk-out during
the Feb. 6 chapel program. The following day, in response either to the walk-out or to the increased number of
cuts being taken by all students, the Faculty Executive Committee met and issued its announcement that a sixth cut would
result in a student being called to "justify (his) continuing at Davidson."

TEACH IN GHANA OR NIGERIA?

Yes: — If You
1. Have a Bachelor's Degree; preferably a Master's Degree.
2. Have at least 30 semester hours credit in one of the following:
a. physics,
b. chemistry,
c. biology,
d. mathematics,
e. industrial arts,
f. French,
g. geography,
h. home economics, or
i. business education.
3. Desire to teach at the secondary school level.
4. Are in good health; single, or married without children. (Both spouses must teach).

TEACHERS FOR WEST AFRICA PROGRAM
ELIZABETHTOWN COLLEGE
ELIZABETHTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA

At Popular Prices

FRATERNITIES, SORORITIES, CLUBS
have your name imprinted

NAME
JUNIOR ENTERPRISE CO.
156 OLIVER ST., N. TONAWANDA, N.Y. 14120

ADDRESS

PLEASE SEND ME QUILLS @ 25¢ EA. PLUS 10¢ HANDLING CHG.
CITY STATE (EXTRA SAVINGS 5 QUILLS PENS $1.00)
