“Page Six, November 21, 1969

The Davidsonian

Cards Mailed To U.S. Servicemen

Students at Queens expect to collect more than 4,000 Christmas cards and letters this month to be sent to servicemen
in Vietnam. College Operation Mail Call, sponsored by the Student Government Association, will end November 22. The greetings are being
collected by the Campus Drives Committee.

Writing cards to servicemen stationed in Vietnam has been a holiday activity for the past five years at Queens. A
number of students have received replies from the soldiers to whom they wrote, and in some cases, a regular correspondence
has developed.

In a year when anti-war demonstrations, including the Moratorium protests, have been grabbing many of the country's newspaper headlines, this
project is looked upon by many people in Charlotte as an act of faith in the Nixon Administration on the
part of Queens college students. Debby Williams, who was appointed chairman of this year's CDC, said that due to the
current controversy over the war in Vietnam, discontinuation of the program had been considered. However, the student body and the
committee in general desired its continuation. She emphasized that the students write cards regardless of their personal convictions concerning the
war. It is strictly a person-to-person activity; in fact, she added that each of the 700 students has received at
least one card, donated by local card companies, on which they are expected to write a greeting. The cards are
collected in boxes behind four large plywood Christmas stockings representing each branch of the military. Members of the community are
invited to add their Christmas greetings to the collection, according to Miss Williams. Letters have been sent to Charlotte schools
and churches encouraging their participation.

BUSINESS AS USUAL

Hattie still serves up her usual large portions of refreshment in spite of the sales of beer in the town
of Davidson itself. Although traffic inside the truck stop may seem smaller than in past years, Hattie maintains her record
volume business based on increased takeout sales.

Washington (Continued From Page 1)

gathered on the Mall between the Capitol and the Washington Monument. New Mobilization button-sellers pleaded for cash, saying they had
a $100,000 debt to pay. It was a great day for flags. There were red flags, black flags, red-and-black flags,
Viet-Cong flags, and American flags. There were also innumerable peace symbols, some superimposed on U.S. flags, and some with Christian
crosses on top. Senator Eugene McCarthy (D-Minn.) spoke to the crowd at about 10 a.m. Commenting on the American flags
present, he said, "I think this demonstration proves that the majority of Americans are loyal, and that the Administration ought
to be more careful in committing them to war."

The mass march began at 11 a.m., but the crowd was so large that it seemed to take forever to
get underway. The parade route for the march was to be down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Treasury Department, then past
the front of the White House, past the Executive Offices onto the Ellipse behind the White House. From the Ellipse,
the marchers would proceed across Constitution Avenue to the Washington Monument. The vast size of the crowd, estimated at anywhere
from a quarter to half a million, made it impossible for more than one section of the marchers to follow
the scheduled route, especially since the parade permit granted by the Justice Department was to expire at 12:30 p.m.

Davidson freshman Jimmy Watson and senior Cary Tucker were among those left by the march route. They witnessed regular minor
counterdemonstrations. These two members of the "silent majority," Watson recalled, were carrying a sign that said, "If we pull out,
50,000 Vietnamese will be massacred." Then they turned the sign around. On the other side, it said, "Do you want
that on your conscience?" Cary Tucker marched with a group that was carrying Viet Cong flags. "There was this little
old lady on the sidewalk shouting at us," he recalled. "She started shouting at me. I had a vision she'd
run up and stab me."

By the time the marchers arrived at the monument, a Viet Cong flag had been raised on one of the
main poles. Others had various peace banners. The speakers at the rally included Dr. Spock, folk singers Tom Paxton and
Arlo Guthrie, David Dellinger, and black spokesman Dick Gregory. The Rev. William Coffin, who is presently appealing his conviction for
counseling draft evasion, gave the opening prayer. Coffin's co-defendant Dr. Benjamin Spock gave a short speech. But he was upstaged
by Dick Gregory, a black comedian whose angry jokes brought down the house. The main attraction for many people was
David Dellinger, one of the eight co-defendants in the current Chicago conspiracy trial. Dellinger expressed regret that "Bobby Seale can't
be with us today."

Fuller (Continued From Page 1)

outside familiar patterns will need to recognize the diversity of talents and motivation among both students and faculty. Further, our
experience with area exams should make us aware of the real difficulties in any innovation. For a new program to
be successful, it must be clearly understood by everyone who is to be involved. As the program is developed, there
needs to be a conscious effort to create support for it. Both students and faculty must be persuaded that the
effort required is worthwhile or failure will again result.

Area exams were destroyed by an absence of clear purpose and by a lack of support from those involved. Eventually,
as pressures built up, this lack of support turned to hostility. It seemed best to make a clean break between
the unsuccessful area exams and any new program. More careful planning will avoid some of the specific problems and misunderstandings
which plagued area exams. A new start will allow us to break away more completely from traditional patterns and construct
a program specifically designed to meet a new educational purpose. But a well-constructed program will not automatically be successful. Learning
is a voluntary process. Students and faculty can be guided to effective learning by good programs, but no one can
be coerced to learn or teach by any program. The essential ingredients are understanding and support from those involved. We
now realize more clearly than before just how strongly new programs are resisted. But we still need a program designed
to guide and encourage learning beyond our familiar classroom routines. To meet this need, despite the obstacles, we must consciously
sell that program to both students and faculty or it will not succeed.

Traxler Cites Difficulties In Booking ‘Big Names’

"You can't please everybody," said Social Council President Bill Traxler. In reply to recent complaints that the Social Council has
failed to attract "big groups" for concerts, Traxler said that Davidson has $23,000 for eight concerts this year, which means
only about $3,000 per concert.The money comes from the $40 social fee that each student pays every year,” Traxler has
only concerts. Moreover, Traxler added, Davidson is bidding against campuses of 15,000 which have vastly greater production and promotion capabilities.
These schools charge their students admission, as well as the general public. Traxler added that it is not Davidson College's
policy to charge students admission.

Davidson students went to the rally Saturday night to protest the treatment of Black Panther Bob Seale. Lewis Trice, a
sophomore, and Mike, a senior, smelled the tear gas but were not arrested. “I just stood in that street, that
my tax money pays for,” said Lewis. “And watched those girls getting hit with canisters of tear gas, and they
call me a militant.” Senior Cary Tucker talked to several militants and said he was disappointed. “They were active and
emotional. ‘Do this! Do that!’,” Tucker said, “But they weren't very clear about their ideas at all.”

Mary Wells Ashton said that the limited seating capacity of Love Auditorium—1200 seats—precludes the admission of the general public. The
gymnasium seats 3500, but it is acoustically unfit for concerts. Another difficulty in obtaining good concert groups, according to College
Union Director C. Shaw Smith, is that concerts are relegated to weekends because that is the only time girls come
here. “There are much better bargains during the week,” Smith added, concluding that if the campus goes co-ed this problem
will lessen. But he emphasized that weekday concerts will have to be coordinated with the college's academic schedule.

To overcome these obstacles and still present Tan and Sylvia, Guess Who, and The Chicago Transit Authority, which is coming
this Spring, Davidson must literally beg and bargain and look for groups just on the way up. An excellent example
was the young lady with the show in 1964. She was scared to death before the show. C. Shaw Smith
spent all afternoon plying her with coffee and encouragement. She fell in love with Davidson College and C. Shaw Smith.
Her name was Dionne Warwick, and the college paid her $800. “Davidson has been called the Ted Mack Amateur Hour
of the South,” Smith joked.

According to Bill Traxler, the colleges in this area assist one another in booking concert groups when they come to
one of the area colleges on tour. Davidson, he added, has received inestimable help in this way from area schools,
especially the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. On a national level, Traxler noted that the National Entertainment Conference
is a primary source of bookings and information. With 300 participating schools, the Conference aims at block bookings with lower
prices. The Conference also publishes a newsletter in which schools rate artists in such areas as audience response. Traxler went
on to mention that the Conference annually showcases new talent. Last year the showcase included “Blood, Sweat, and Tears,” “The
Guess Who,” and the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble.

Smith said the Union is looking for “good acts people can thoroughly enjoy... lasting entertainment and not the fast-buck stuff.”
He also said that there is a conscious effort to present a balanced program of concerts at the time and
with the people that will do the most for the morale of the school. Traxler conceded that there had been
some grumbling recently about the quality of rock groups scheduled by the Social Council. Some students, he said, want to
know why Davidson cannot book artists like Jose Feliciano or Blood, Sweat, and Tears. These groups, said Traxler, charge about
$15,000 per concert, a price far beyond the capacity of the Social Council to pay. In the groups it does
book, the Council tries to strike a balance between “soul” and “hard rock.” The students’ own preferences, he stressed, are
most influential, and all suggestions are readily accepted.

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8:
Brinkley 420 N. Main
MacCormac Grey Road

INGA (Continued From Page 1)
Social Life, the Committee on Admissions Reform, and the successful Committee on Area Exams. The Area Exams Committee will now
be incorporated into the Educational Reform Committee due to last week's faculty suspension of the area exams. Hobbie reports that
his duties as president now consist mainly of making certain that the committees are meeting and encouraging the development of
an honors college and the acceptance of self-scheduled exams. He is redirecting the main function of the Senate from the
passage of legislation to the improvement of the college community. Therefore, he stated, there will be no new proposals of
major legislation.

Concerning the administrative controversy over constitutional procedure, Hobbie expressed his doubt that a constitutional violation occurred in the recent passage
of legislation, for only a conflict with the SGA by-laws existed. Tom Opie, SGA Vice-President, and Tom Vernon, SGA Secretary,
both saw a need for adherence to constitutional procedure, however. Accordingly, they drafted a resolution which was later passed to
control the meeting of the Student Senate and to guarantee the regular assembly of the Education Committee. Hobbie himself has
responded well to this call, they said, and both the Senate and the SEC are operating better for it.

Opie and Vernon agree that Hobbie has taken the initiative, when the Senate often has not, in doing what he
believes is good for Davidson. They both largely agree with his ideas, but not with his methods. Opie summed it
up when he said, “The test of Hobbie’s true purpose will be how he and the Senate handle the NSA
proposal, whether he wants a real study evoking controversy or is simply trying to push forward his own viewpoint in
the most expedient way possible.”

New York to London Summer Vacation Trips
Round Trip $169
Now Filling
Small Deposit & Payment
Send for Free Details
Student Globe Roamers
Box 6575
Hollywood, Fla. 33021

SHRUDE M. F. HOLDEN CO.
CHARLOTTE’S NO. 1 Boutique
200 Independence
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

DAVIDSON SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
GET YOUR BUMPER STICKERS AT THE STUDENT STORE
