REMEMBER MOTHER'S DAY (May 11)

THE MISSILE

Don't Look Now, But... it seems as if the ROTC Department may have the jump on Congress, the Pentagon and Red China, too, with its own antiballistic missile perched high atop Belk Dormitory. The radar that warns of enemy attack is over the west wing of the dorm. However, faculty members have promised to investigate, and the Fallout Preparedness Committee is to meet in November to look into the matter. A spokesman for the ROTC Department declined to comment on anything except on what it would mean if there were an ABM here. “Why, that would mean Davidson is the best-protected and most important target in the country.” Target? Now, hold on...

The Newspaper Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969

Montreat Breeds Ideas

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

THE RADAR

AN ANALYSIS
By BOB DUNHAM
Editor-in-Chief

Admittedly one of the most difficult and futile tasks today is the attempt to regenerate for one’s contemporaries the excitement which has been created by a symposium or a conference. It has certainly been true of the conference held recently in Montreat by the Richardson Fellows for the discussion of admissions policies, the experimental college and career studies. Very few students have acquired any impression of the conference. Indeed, few even know it took place. But those in attendance are trying to recreate on campus a bit of the enthusiasm and debate which was generated by the students, faculty, administrators and outside guests who attended.

The spearheads of admissions and the experimental college from the Davidson side were there and all spoke their cases well, but the excitement came from the outside speakers. Edgar Whan, the director of a program for unstructured education at Ohio University, was the one who left the greatest impression. He spoke of the demands of the black students at Ohio, and their effect. He spoke of grades and of his changed impressions of educational aims. He described the force with which the Negroes at Ohio obtained their demands, and he mixed humor and color in noting that the deans met promptly at 8 a.m. the morning after the grievances were presented, which was much more than white demands had ever been able to achieve.

His analysis of the problem with the Negro today or “the black thing,” dealt with regionalism. “In the North the whites say ‘I don't care how big you get as long as you don't get too close,’” Whan said, “while in the South it’s, ‘I don't care how close you get as long as you don't get too big.’” Whan told the conference that Ohio used only A, B and C in its grading scale. “Grades are supposed to show what you know,” he said, “not what you don't know.” He spoke of an F on a student's record as “a big stinkin’ albatross around his neck,” and said a professor who gives F's is “power mad.” An eloquent man with an affinity for the colorful as well as the course, Whan fascinated the conference with his description of his educational conversation. After describing his old faith in the traditional university, he then described his somewhat apocalyptic view of education when explaining that “the world started blowin’ up. I got bored.” “I used to say that the purpose of a university was to teach, and if you want to learn about life, join the Navy,” Whan noted, but noted that now he becomes “suspicious when ‘teach’ is used.”

(See MONTREAT, Page 3)

Board Follows Faculty Lead, Assents To Voluntary ROTC

Calls For Student Decision

Repair Work Approved On Dormitories, Church

Repairs on the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and remodeling of dormitories on campus were approved by the college's trustees meeting on campus today. “As a first step toward renovation and upgrading of dormitories,” several projects were authorized for this summer:

—Installing a fire alarm system for all dormitories.
—Installing new beds in all dormitories that do not already have new ones.
—Creating three lounge areas in the older residence halls and improving existing lounges.
—General repair and painting work.

The college church this summer will receive its first major beauty treatment since it was built 11 years ago. Approximately $200,000 has been approved for this project.

Effort

DAVIDSONIAN co-editor Franklin Anderson has signed a National Student Association resolution opposing the Vietnam war and saying that he will refuse induction into the armed forces as long as the war continues. Student Body President Peter Hobbie and the other DAVIDSONIAN co-editor Bob Dunham did not sign the statement. The NSA resolution, which has been signed by over 250 student body presidents and college newspaper editors, declared opposition to the Vietnam war because of its “immorality and unjustness.” The NSA sent a copy of the statement to President Richard Nixon and also requested a conference with him to discuss at greater length student concern about the war and the draft.

Anderson said that he signed the resolution because “I agree with it fully and feel that to be honest with myself I must sign. The point to me is that the United States does not belong in the Vietnamese war. It's a mistake both politically and morally.” “And also, my signing the petition gets Davidson's name on the list, and I think that’s important,” he said. Though he plans to be a pre-ministerial student and therefore may be exempt from the draft, Anderson said that he would refuse induction if he should ever become eligible for the draft while the United States is fighting in Vietnam.

In connection with his support of the NSA association, Anderson will go to Washington, D. C., this weekend to take part in a conference on campus disorders and possible campus reform as one of 20 randomly-selected campus leaders who signed the resolution. Anderson said that the reason for this conference is that the Nixon administration has taken a potentially repressive view toward campus disorders, and that the NSA wanted to prepare a positive statement on this situation, based on this conference’s recommendation. A copy of this new resolution will be sent to President Nixon.

Student Body President Hobbie said that he agreed with the idea of the resolution but that he didn’t sign it because of his participation in advanced ROTC and his “lack of strong commitment to this cause.” “I'm not really sure I wouldn't go to Vietnam,” Hobbie said. “You have to feel very strongly before taking a step like this.” “The point to me is that the motives of the United States in Vietnam are not wrong. I accept it as a mistake but not as immoral. If I thought the United States had gotten into Vietnam for immoral reasons, I might refuse to go,” he said.

DAVIDSONIAN co-editor Dunham agreed with the principles of the resolution but didn’t sign because his signing might conflict with another interest. In a prepared statement on the NSA resolution, Dunham said: “On the basis of very personal considerations I have decided not to sign the petition. My decision has come after much evaluation and consideration of the long-term effect of my signing.” “I wholeheartedly support those persons who have elected to sign the statement, and I will defend their stand to the fullest of my capabilities. I do not disagree with the statement; I consider it to be one of the best comments yet made on the Vietnam war. However, if I were to sign the statement, I would seriously jeopardize the effectiveness of another endeavor, and the long-term success of that endeavor, I believe, is too important to disregard.”

Trustee Committee Checks Resolution

FACULTY RESOLUTION

“That Military Science at Davidson be made elective, with the understanding that advanced military science shall receive academic credit as it does at the present time, and with the further recommendation that the Department of Military Science at Davidson College, in cooperation with the Dean of the Faculty and Registrar, attempt to modify the present form of its program to permit entry into the full Military Science program as late as possible.”

TRUSTEE ADDENDUM

“That the college affirm the importance of the role of the ROTC in the life of many individual students, and affirm the importance of the role of civilian, college-trainedOfficers in the military service of the country. “One of the basic concepts of our country has been the civilian army. The ROTC has been a significant factor in maintaining this concept. In a time when the military power of our nation likely will be maintained at a high level, the officers produced by the ROTC constitute a salutary ingredient of our national life. “Therefore, the college should take appropriate steps to enable students to make a serious and informal judgment concerning their participation in ROTC. “Among the steps to be taken are: 1) a letter be sent to the freshmen students and their families in June prior to their enrollment in order that there may be family participation in the decision; 2) a program be held in the orientation period devoted to setting forth fully the advantages and disadvantages to the student of the ROTC program; 3) the student then be requested to make his own decision as to his participation or non-participation in the ROTC.”

- Student Opinion In Forum
By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

An overflow crowd of students, faculty members, and trustees participated in an hour and a half “Forum on ROTC” last night in the Morrison Room. Except for two brief statements by faculty members Dr. A. J. McKelway and Col. Frederick B. Outlaw and brief introductory and closing remarks by Dr. Warner Hall, chairman of the trustee Education Committee, the forum consisted of a dialogue among students concerning the pros and cons of compulsory ROTC. Hall stated early in the discussion that the trustee Education Committee was not present to debate the ROTC issue but merely to listen to various opinions on the issue. A dialogue of sorts then developed between those generally favoring the present ROTC system and those who advocated a completely voluntary program. The arguments presented fell into several broad groups. Joe Norton and K. D. Weeks, both seniors, typified one group, which contended that compulsory ROTC is a good thing. Junior Stagg Newman took a moderate stand, saying that he felt the present program to be valuable, but that he would support a voluntary program provided that a period of objective ROTC orientation be set up for entering freshmen. Those on the other side included senior Sam Johnson and junior Glenn Withrow. Withrow stated, “At 18 you are mature enough to kill a man; at 18 you ought to be able to decide whether you are going to take ROTC.” In his talk, McKelway stated that “the faculty committee dealing with ROTC established beyond question that a voluntary program could survive at Davidson.” He pointed out that less than 20 private institutions in the United States have compulsory programs like Davidson's program. Outlaw summed up his position succinctly: “There is one question only. If you want a voluntary program, have it. If you can keep it going, more power to you.”

- On Program Participation
By DAVID SWEATT
Associate Editor

Davidson's Board of Trustees voted today to allow students to decide whether or not they will enroll in the basic ROTC course. The decision supplanted a policy approved by the Board a little over a year ago. That policy, approved May 3, 1968, restored a previous policy which allowed a student exemption from the program if requested by parents prior to the student’s matriculation as a freshman. The change passed today with an overwhelming majority. “The best that I could hear,” commented Board Chairman Walter L. Lingle on the voice vote, “there was only one dissenting vote.” The trustees’ decision represented verbatim approval of a faculty recommendation voted on at the Tuesday meeting of the faculty. The trustees attached an additional statement, but its addition in no way limits the effect of the policy recommendation of the faculty. The new policy continues the present policy of giving academic credit for advanced military science. The resolution also calls on the Department of Military Science to “attempt to modify the present form of its program to permit entry into the full Military Science as late as possible.” Asked if the Board's decision represented a change in sentiment since last year, Lingle responded, “I don’t think the sentiment of the Board was to keep compulsory ROTC. I think the sentiment of the Board was to have each family decide, shall we say — the student and the parents — as to whether or not he should participate. “Apparently it has turned out to be unacceptable to the students. That was the sentiment, in view, at the time. The intent was one to establish permissiveness in this respect, as opposed to a strict policy. “Actually,” concluded Lingle, “I think there's been a real element of surprise on the part of the trustees that more students didn’t produce letters written by parents.” The Board's action culminated a process of reconsideration that began in the fall term when the SGA Senate asked reconsideration of the ROTC requirement. That body resolved that “In relation to the ideals of student maturity and responsibility as presented in the CRAP report, enrollment in the ROTC program should be made voluntary.” The student committee for voluntary ROTC presented a resolution for voluntary ROTC to the faculty's Educational Policy Committee in January. The EPC asked the students to collect new supporting information for voluntary ROTC before returning to the EPC with their resolution. On March 14 the EPC consented to students’ requests that they be allowed to work with interested faculty members in the collection of new information, and EPC Chairman Dean Frontis Johnston was directed to bring the student and faculty groups together. This Student-Faculty Committee for Volunteer ROTC presented its information to the EPC in a two-hour meeting on April 14. The information included extracts from a survey of the American Council on Education which showed Davidson to be one of sixteen private non-Catholic colleges and universities in the nation still requiring ROTC.

- Trustees Raise Catalogue Costs

A $300 increase in catalogue costs, provision for using endowment funds for operating expenses, and amendments to the Code of Responsibility were adopted by the Board of Trustees today, Trustee President Walter L. Lingle Jr. announced. Possible change in structure of the Board was also discussed, but no action was taken pending the report of the Commission on Church Relationship and the Academy for Educational Development, Lingle said. Dr. Spencer stated that the five presidential commission reports would be forwarded to the AED for evaluation and criticism as soon as they were completed, and he hoped that they could be presented at the October trustee meeting. Total catalogue costs for 1969-70 will be $2685, Spencer said. This includes a $150 tuition increase from $1540 to $1690, a $30 room rent increase to $280, a $10 increase in laundry fees to $110, and a $50 increase in College Union board to $525. Current total catalogue costs are $2,385. Spencer stated that there would be an increase in scholarships commensurate with the increase in costs and that athletic scholarship funds would be increased in order to maintain approximately the same number of scholarships. Spencer explained about a rumor of scholarship reduction that future scholarships rather than present scholarships would be affected. The College will have a balanced budget for this fiscal year, Spencer said in his report to the trustees. A five-year financial forecast was also presented to the Trustees, but Lingle emphasized that the Trustees felt the projections of future expenditures were of limited value. Spencer added, “These projections are not things to which the College is committed, but are simply an attempt to look ahead and say what it looks as if we're going to do and attempt to plan in that direction.” SGA President Peter Hobbie addressed the Trustees this afternoon about adding student members to the Board. The Trustees passed a change in the by-laws enabling the Board to use endowment capital for current operating expenses. This will enable the College to invest in growth stocks with the endowment rather than being restricted to high-yield stocks, Lingle explained. However, expenditure of endowment capital for current expenses would have to be approved by the Board in each instance. Action on two faculty appointments was postponed. Approved changes in the Code of Responsibility were procedural ones recommended by the SGA and the faculty.