! : bs ‘ SPORTS DESK BOB DUNHAM Who Needs Conference Tournaments? With the basketball season now into its final
month of play, it is an appropriate time to look forward once again to that perpetual nemesis of Southern Conference
basketball teams: the conference tournament. In a little over a month, the NCAA and the NIT will begin to weed
out contenders for the national titles until only the best are left. But some of the best never get there,
and this is where the system tends to break down. Much has been said, but little has been done to
remove the plight of the Southern Conference tournament, which by some freakish quirk can end up sending its season cellar
dweller to the NCAA tournament. Certainly, the number one team for the season in the conference should be able to
win the conference tournament as well. But what if it doesn’t? Suppose they got knocked off by a fired-up team
in the first round? What then? A lot of people tend to dismiss this idea, and this year especially there
is a lot of talk of how “nobody’s going to get by Davidson.” Don’t kid yourself. One needs only to
examine the scores or the play-by-play of Davidson’s games this season within the Southern Conference to know that there are
plenty of capable teams in the conference which could knock off the Wildcats on a good shooting night. But Davidson
has won their conference games as they were favored to do. They have proven their strength thus far. Win as
they have, however, they have not earned anything yet. They must get by the conference tournament next month. That's where
the whole season is won or lost. It happened before. In 1964, a scrappy team from VMI topped the nationally
ranked Wildcats in an early round and went on to represent the Southern in the NCAA playoffs. Thus, a team
with a 12-11 season record beat out the 21-4 Wildcats in the tournament. The NCAA playoffs spelled disaster. VMI lost
its first-round game to Princeton, 86-60. There was no question that the Wildcats could have done better. They had crushed
Princeton earlier that season. But the fact was VMI represented the conference, and they lost. This quirk of fate prompted
sports writers all over the country to re-examine the Southern’s set-up. Even other schools came to Davidson and the conference’s
aid. Barry Jacobs, writing in the Tulane University Hullabaloo that year, spoke of the “silly system,” saying, “Not only is
this system unfair to the rightful conference champions, it is bad for the conference's prestige. Instead of sending a strong
team which might win glory for the league, the conference sends out a weak one and gets humiliated.” The Southern
is not the only conference with this set-up. The Atlantic Coast Conference has its tournament as well. But they are
the only two conferences in the South that do, and in fact, the only two prominent conferences in the United
States that do. Others send either their season champions or employ a compromise system. The compromise system also utilizes a
tournament. Under its set-up, however, the season champion usually prevails. If a team other than the season champion wins the
tournament, a play-off is arranged between the tournament champion and the season champion. Certainly, this is better than a single
tournament in which a poor team can fire itself up into NCAA playoffs. Under the present setup, the Southern Conference
is ignoring and throwing away what a team has accomplished over a long and testing season. One bad game can
blow that entire season sky high. It's time for the Southern to take a long, hard look at its long
out-of-date setup. If a conference is going to hold a post-season tournament, let it be only for money and glory,
and let the best in the conference go on to the playoffs. Otherwise, what is the use in playing a
season at all?

Thinclads Run in Meet At VMI Coach Heath Whittle's 1969 indoor track team will test its strength today when it
meets stiff competition in the VMI Invitational Indoor Track Meet in Lexington, Va. Running on a small, eighth-mile oval in
the VMI field house, the team will take only sprinters to the meet. Last year's Southern Conference 200-yard dash man,
Rick Lyon, will lead the way. Tommy Richardson, a freshman speed-demon, and juniors Whit Morrow and Carl Salter will join
Lyon in the 220 relay. Competition will come from a wide field, including Richmond Flowers, the nation’s top hurdler from
the University of Tennessee.

There was more significance to the award given to Gordon Slade last weekend at the Davidson-Citadel game than just a
normal bubble gum company award. The award, for being named to the all-district baseball team last year, was presented by
the Topps Bubble Gum Co., which is the company that prints baseball cards. Slade led the Southern Conference in hitting
last year at .429, and was named by the Associated Press to the all-district team from NCAA District Three.

The quote of the week comes from Charlotte News sports editor Ronald Green, who in a column this week on
all-American teams, said, “North Carolina's Charlie Scott and Davidson's Mike Maloy are the two prime All-America candidates in this area.”
He continued, “Both will probably make the Look (magazine) team but it will be surprising if both make the AP's
five-man lineup. It’s rare that two men from one state make it. If both aren't All-Americans, though, there's no such
creature.”

FIVE IN DOUBLE FIGURES High-Flying Hawkeyes Await Wildcats In Chicago By BOB DUNHAM Sports Editor When the Wildcats invade Chicago
Stadium tomorrow night, they will find waiting for them one of the best offensive ball clubs in the country. Averaging
just over 91 points per game, the University of Iowa Hawkeyes have five men averaging in double figures, and one
of them isn't even a starter. Coach Ralph Miller’s squad is one of the tallest in the Big Ten, and
his squad has run with some of the fastest teams in the Midwest in piling up a 9-4 record. Miller's
two 6-7 forwards, John Johnson and Ben McGilmer, are leading the Hawkeyes’ scoring, averaging 18.6 and 16.4 points per game
respectively. The team’s sparkplug, 6-1 guard Chad Calabria, is right on their heels with a 15.9 average. The other guard,
6-5 Glenn Vidnovic, is averaging 14.8. The fifth man in double figures is sixth man Chris Phillips, who at 6-3
is averaging 10.6 points per game. The Hawkeye center, 6-8 Dick Jensen, is just shy of the double-figure mark, putting
in an average of 9.8 points per game. Although Iowa is a high-scoring team, it does not employ a run-and-shoot
offense. The high scores have come largely because of a 50 percent floor shooting average. The Hawkeyes’ problem this year
has been their defense. The man-to-man defense which they employ has fallen apart at crucial moments this season, including the
Hawkeyes’ contest with Duke, in which they blew a lead to lose by three. Coach Lefty Driesell’s Wildcats have thus
far worked best against the man-to-man defense, and Driesell feels that Davidson can run with any team. The Wildcats come
off a 94-74 victory over George Washington, while Iowa will be playing their first game in over two weeks after
stopping for exams. The Hawkeyes’ match with Davidson marks the first of three tough ones, as they follow up the
Chicago meeting with Purdue and Illinois, both top-ranked teams. Davidson's Mike Maloy and Doug Cook will work the inside against
the big Hawkeyes. The pair combined for 58 points and 30 rebounds against George Washington.

Adrian Fills Scoring Role, Fast Becoming ‘Superstar’ By RUSS MERRITT Sports Writer About this time last year, a hectic under-cover
struggle was being waged by the top college basketball coaches in the nation for a prep basketball star from Bishop
Molloy High School in New York City. By the end of the season, Bishop Molloy’s whiz, who had led his
school to a 23-2 record against the best in New York with a 29-point scoring average, had narrowed his choice
down between Davidson College and Holy Cross. With one parent backing each school and with both colleges having much to
offer, the high school star was caught in a stalemate. Then Davidson's O'Neill Receives SC Player Award At the beginning
of the season, most sports writers were labeling Davidson's Mike O’Neill as the best sixth man in the conference. Davidson
Coach Lefty Driesell disagreed, saying that he saw O’Neill more as a regular than as a reserve. This week the
sports writers relented, as they named O'Neill Southern Conference Player of the Week for pouring in 41 points in two
games. Lefty O'Neill, a senior, took over a starting position as Jerry Kroll sat out the Princeton and The Citadel
games with an ankle injury. He started the George Washington game this week, though Kroll played limited relief. Playing at
the wing position, O'Neill scored 22 points against Princeton to lead scorers and then tossed in 19 against The Citadel,
picking up eightRebounds in the contests.

MIKE O’NEILL ... 4 points

Sporttopics

Green made another good point in his column. Speaking of the schedule played by Santa Clara, ranked third above the
Wildcats in both polls, Green noted that Santa Clara plays such “tough” teams as Nevada, the University of California at
Davis, Gonzaga, Pacific, St. Mary's, Hayward State, and Pepperdine. Shades of St. Bonaventure.

Those interested in trying out for the baseball team are invited to attend the team’s first meeting Monday at 2
p.m. on the baseball field.

Driesell turned on his best recruiting charms, and today Bryan Adrian is starting for the freshman edition of Wildcat basketball.
At first glance, Adrian looks like anything but a basketball player, much less a possible great. His slumping shuffle-walk, straggly
mop-hair, and quiet, reserved manner tend to make Adrian a bystander when off the court. One glance is all that's
needed when he's on the court, though, to prove to even the most inexperienced basketball fan that here are the
makings of a real superstar.

Adrian, who has been described by many as probably the best shooter to ever don a Wildcat basketball uniform, is
realistic about his position at Davidson. “Different players have different duties. Doug (Hill) is our ball-handler. Eric (Minkin) covers the
boards, Lester (Strong) and Frank (Clark) provide scoring and board help, and my job is to score. Davidson recruited me
as a shooter and a scorer, so I've got my work, too.”

And Adrian does his work especially well, scoring at a 30-point pace while hitting on better than 50 percent of
his field goal attempts. It wasn't always that easy for Adrian. The youngest of three sons of a New York
policeman, the going could sometimes get rough. “I started throwing the ball at the basket when I was about five
or six and could hardly get it there. We didn't have any of these little league basketball teams so most
of the games I played were against my older brothers and their friends."

Adrian laughs when remembering some of the neighborhood pick-up contests. “I was the smallest so I was always chosen last.
I never could shoot the ball correctly because one of the bigger kids would block it. I guess that's why
I shoot the way I do now.”

The way Adrian now shoots, it’s nearly impossible for anyone, big or small, to block it. His quick release and
unusual ability to get open with the ball, combined with his own unique soft-as-cotton shot, leave many a defender shaking
his head while two more points are added to the scoreboard.

“I like the Davidson basketball program," Adrian said. “I don't think that there’s any better for me personally. The material
and the coaches are good, and they treat you big time.”

Standings Tighten As Delts Top Nus

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The Phi Delts moved back into the thick of the IMAC basketball race Wednesday night as they dropped the Sigma
Nus from the ranks of the unbeaten, 63-47. The Delts raced to an early 18-2 lead on the strength of
their offensive rebounding and a sticky man-to-man defense, and the Nus were forced to play catch-up basketball for the rest
of the game. The shooting of the Delts was not particularly good in the first half, but they rarely failed
to get a second shot as Gene Early and James Brice controlled the offensive backboards.

The Delts picked up their shooting in the second half and wrapped up the game. Garth Hampton was six for
seven in the second half and finished with 21 points to be high scorer for the Delts. Toby Westmoreland scored
22 for the Nus.

In other games through Wednesday, the Sig Eps and Pikas won as they beat the SAE’s and Betas respectively. The
SPE's featured an effective man-to-man defense and a balanced scoring attack to whip the SAE’s, 66-52. Dave Shepler led the
Sig Ep scoring with 18 points while Wade Shepherd and Kent Rhodes followed with 16 each.

The Pikas trimmed the Betas, 69-55, behind some excellent shooting and good defense. Mark Affeldt led the scoring with 23
points, nine for 14 from the floor and five for five at the line. Joe Lansinger easily led both teams
in rebounding with 11. Johnny Baker scored 18 for the losers.

The Indies won their first game surprisingly easily, 69-57, over the KA’s. The Indies played 12 men, and the scoring
was so well balanced that the only player to score in double figures was Bill Funderburk with 10.

The ATO’s whipped the Phi Gamms, 47-36, to bring their record to 3-2.

“Davidson as a whole has been enjoyable, too. Academically it's a great school. However, sometimes the social situation can really
get to you, particularly after living in a big city all your life."

“Since I've joined a fraternity and am getting a car soon it'll get better, though, I hope.”

Bryan Adrian was a superstar in high school. Bryan Adrian is playing like a superstar for the freshman team. And
Driesell hopes Bryan Adrian will be the next superstar in Davidson basketball history.

The Davidsonian
January 31, 1969
Page Five

32 rebounds in Tuesday night's game with George Washington. Dave Moser will start at the point with probably Mike O'Neill
and Jerry Kroll opening at wings. Kroll returned to the lineup Tuesday after sitting out two games with an ankle
injury. O'Neill has been playing more consistently since Driesell moved him into the starting lineup in place of Kroll. Kroll’s
seven-point performance at George Washington demonstrated his readiness to play, and it is speculated that he will join O'Neill in
the Iowa game in place of Wayne Huckel. Huckel has been having trouble with shooting all season and has not
yet found his shooting touch.

FRESHMAN SUPERSTAR BRYAN ADRIAN
New York City wingman averaging 30 points per game.

Individual Efforts Spark Swimmers To Triumph

By ALEX GORDON
Sports Writer

Davidson's swimming team broke into the win column Tuesday afternoon with a convincing 63-39 win over Appalachian. After dropping their
first two meets with William and Mary and Clemson, the Wildcat tankmen were victorious Tuesday on the strength of nine
first places in the 12-event meet.

In the previous two meets, the Wildcats were particularly hampered by their shortage of swimmers. Since a swimmer can only
participate in three events in a dual meet, Coach Tom Stevens, with only nine boys, was forced to enter only
one boy in some events. Swimming is scored on a five-three-one point basis. Thus, if only one man swims in
an event, the opposing team automatically has at least four points.

However, Tuesday Davidson encountered a team with comparable problems. In both the 200-yard butterfly and the 200-yard backstroke, each team
entered only one boy. Davidson won both events, as Jack Steele and John Cronin took victories.

The Wildcats had two other double winners in Bill Woodson and Jim Newton. Woodson took the 500 and 1000-yard freestyle
events. Newton, with whom Stevens has been especially pleased, captured the 50 and 100-yard freestyles. Steele and Cronin along with
Mac Davis and Jimmy Winn helped take the 400-yard medley relay. Steele was also victorious in the 200-yard freestyle, while
Winn swam to victory in the 200-yard breaststroke.

The Wildcats will try to even their record this afternoon at 4 p.m. in Charlotte against Johnson C. Smith.

BEST ITALIAN DISHES WEST OF ITALY!
Your Dining Will Be An Experience To Remember!
Rendezvous In Charlotte At LaTORINO RESTAURANT & TAPROOM
Best Pizza In Town
Choice Charcoal Steaks — Imported & Domestic Wines
Brown Bagging — Tap Room
6 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Sunday 4 p.m. to 12 p.m.
One Block East of Indiana Blvd.
1427 E. Fourth
Phone 332-6352

All Winter Clothing SALE Continues This Week
Save Much Money on Famous Make
SUITS
SPORTCOATS
TOPCOATS
CARCOATS
PANTS
SWEATERS
WEATHERCOATS
SHIRTS
John Mack & Son
Our 57th Year
Mooresville
