REPORT EXAMINES PROFESSOR’S ROLE (See Page Three)

LISTEN, YOU DUMMY...

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 1969

(Staff Photos by Weems)

Present, but marked for a cut in chapel.

Anti-Chapel Resistance Mounts; Dummy Gets Cut

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

If the real aim of compulsory chapel is to place 1,000 bodies in Love Auditorium to ameliorate the acoustical effects, then Mike Roth may have found the answer to the problem of required student attendance. For the past two chapel programs, Roth's seat has been occupied by a newspaper-stuffed denim dummy with a balloon head. The dummy, according to Roth, was designed to possess the same acoustical properties as the human body while resembling from a distance an attentive, alert listener. Roth still got a cut, however, even though his assigned seat was occupied and he listened to the speaker from another part of the auditorium.

Roth termed his dummy “as ridiculous as required chapel itself.” He said he was ready to disregard the chapel requirement altogether, going only to programs that interest him and then sitting where he pleases. A substantial number of students apparently share Roth’s feelings about compulsory chapel. Although the movement is not really organized, there is widespread discontent about chapel programs and attendance requirements. Roth estimated that 40 to 50 students are close to intentionally overcutting chapel already.

Gil Terriberry, who has also been working to mobilize student protest against compulsory chapel, is not calling for a widespread chapel boycott yet, however. Terriberry plans to ask the student Senate and the faculty to pass resolutions favoring voluntary chapel, in hopes that the administration and trustees will drop the attendance requirement. “We've got to give the system a chance to reform itself first. If that doesn’t work, then more drastic action will be justified,” Terriberry said.

Karl Bauknight, who has been working on a chapel boycott too, also hopes such action will not be necessary. “We have reason to believe,” Bauknight said, “that Dr. (Samuel R.) Spencer will be able to change the situation significantly by this spring or next fall, so that a boycott will not be needed.”

In the statement signed by all incoming freshmen, chapel attendance is mentioned as one of the “responsibilities on the Davidson campus.” The statement sent out by the dean of students also states, “You will be expected to regularly attend Chapel or assembly with a limited number of unexcused absences allowed.”

THE PASSING OF ‘THE POST’ (See Page Two)

NUMBER FOURTEEN

Senate, Ad Hoc Group Resume ROTC Attack

Election Results Create Nine Student Senators

By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

Nine candidates including five incumbents were elected class senators in elections Tuesday which also saw junior Emerson Bell elected to the YMCA presidency. Senators elected from the rising senior class were Jim Hinshaw, 80 votes, Harry Goldman, 73, and Tim Bynum, 69. The defeated candidates were Cliff Duke, Richard Howard, Bill Lunderburk, Mike Flemming, and John Huggins. Hinshaw’s election to the Senior Class presidency means that he will serve on the Alumni Association Board of Directors for five years following his graduation. Also serving on the board for the same time will be SGA President-elect Peter Hobbie. The board nominates alumni trustees.

The rising Junior Class elected Gary Cash, 112 votes, Ran Coble, 106, and Charlie Ralston, 110. Hugh Dennis, Rob Krehbiel, and Tom Rogers were also on the slate. Todd Hobbie, 124 votes, Cecil Burney, 122, and Stewart Rogers, 99, were elected from the Class of ‘72 over Danny Clodfelter, Jody Turner, Whit Ayres, Howard Ramagli, and Robin Gray. The incumbent class senators were Cash and Hobbie while Goldman, Burney, and Rogers were previously residence hall senators. Three new residence hall senators must now be appointed by the Senate Executive Committee.

Bell took the YMCA presidency easily by amassing 219 votes—68 percent of the total vote over two opponents. John Lientz placed second with 113 votes while Marvin Ellison polled 52. In a Wednesday run-off, Scott beat Ron Webb for Y vice president, 235 to 123. Steve Salver was elected secretary of the YMCA with 281 votes while John Kenyon polled 233 votes to place second. Gene Guill (178) is the new Y treasurer. He defeated Rick Van Water (155) in a run-off yesterday. Junior John Bryant won the post of defense adviser over classmate Tom Wheat.

(See ELECTIONS, Page 6)

EMERSON BELL
new YMCA president

Curfew Decision Refused By IFC

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

The Interfraternity Council Judicial Board refused to rule this week on an alleged fraternity curfew violation and turned the matter over to the Dean's Council for further examination.

College And Church: You'd Like To Believe

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

Last of Three Articles

“God is slick and shiny from a distance, but when you get up close, He isn't there.” That’s senior John Warren’s view, a view that is symptomatic of the problem some students face at Davidson College. The college, by requiring that students take courses in Bible and religion, forces some students to intellectualize their Sunday School faith in God. And in this intellectualizing process, some students lose their faith altogether. Other students see at Davidson only a veneer of religiosity, which they find desirable, but not necessary. Still others find that they can affirm their commitment to human and Christian values.

6-Month Alumni Fund Drive Set

Plans to raise $300,000 to finance Davidson's educational program for the current year by gifts from its 10,000 alumni were announced this week by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. The “Living Endowment,” or “Annual Giving,” campaign will aim at reaching its goal by June 30 of this year, Spencer said. Each class of alumni will have a class chairman or two co-chairmen who will oversee a number of class agents each responsible for 10 members of his class, the president said. The general chairman for the campaign is B. B. Walker, president and board chairman of the B. B. Walker Shoe Company of Asheboro, an active businessman, church leader, and vice chairman.

Mrs. Nicholls To Solicit Dormitory Improvement

Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing, said last week that she will ask for funds for dormitory improvements in her next budget request. Lounges are planned for next year in dormitories which do not have them, Mrs. Nicholls said. Additional plans call for carpeting in the existing lounges of Richardson, Little, and Belk dormitories. There will probably be more such projects, but none will be planned until after the budget request is submitted sometime before Feb. 1, Mrs. Nicholls said. A new lounge will be built in Cannon Dormitory, which has an improvised one already, she added. Mrs. Nicholls said that students “can count on something being done about the buildings” because “the need has been recognized” by the administration.of the college Alumni Association. His vice chairman is Daniel S. LaFar Jr., a textile executive of Gastonia. Karl Hudson, executive vice president of Hudson-Belk Company in Raleigh, will be special gifts chairman. Spencer said that the funds are needed “not only for current objectives such as faculty salaries and library purchases, but also to meet expected demands of the new curriculum, launched this fall.” All of these things, he said, are “expensive but necessary if Davidson is to meet its commitments to new generations.” Coordinating the campaign will be William B. Armstrong, acting director of public relations.

ues through religiously oriented programs and through social service programs backed by the YMCA. In essence, Davidson may be a church school, but it is not a religious school in any fundamentalist religious sense. And although Davidson is supported by the Presbyterian Church, U.S., students seem little concerned with the college’s Presbyterian ties, except where Presbyterian strictures are imposed, as they are for the election of some trustees and the president and for faculty tenure.

The Rev. Scott Woodmansee sees his job as college chaplain as “a ministry of presence. I am involved where students are, and I am interested in what students are thinking and doing.” Woodmansee said that he found three major advantages to Davidson’s church relationship. “It means that the Christian faith will be a viable option. I think it also means that there is a great deal of concern about values, but this might be the case in any liberal arts college whether it’s church-related or not,” Woodmansee said. The Davidson-church relationship “also involves financial support, of course,” he said.

Asked about the religious life on campus, Woodmansee said, “It is hard to say any one thing that characterizes feelings about religion and faith.” The four years a student spends in college are “a time of doubt and questioning. The quest to know who we are is often a religious quest,” Woodmansee said. “The college tries to provide influences,” he added, “but it must free students to hurt themselves.” In another phase of his job, Woodmansee also serves as adviser to the YMCA, which through its various programs directly involves some 200 students, according to the adviser’s estimate. “The YMCA tries to provide programs that include education, worship, and service,” Woodmansee said. “Students are looking for what’s authentic, not necessarily dogma and denominationalism. As a non-denominational group, the ‘Y’ is a good outlet.”

Senior Sam Tallman emphasized the advantages of attending a private, but not necessarily church-related liberal arts college. Such a school provides an “atmosphere that is free from the value of the masses. The major religious groups preserve a freedom of inquiry. The liberal arts, humanities, and natural sciences are emphasized in lieu of the functional education found at secular schools, specifically state-supported schools.” At a private school, Tallman said, “There’s some guarantee that the student body is going to be well selected. The private church school has tried to perpetuate the real meaning of aristocracy, and I mean by this (See THIS, Page 6).”

After meetings on Wednesday and Thursday, the Dean’s Council had still not decided definitely what to do in the matter. “It’s a matter that hangs until the Dean’s Council decides who should handle the violation,” said James J. Terry Jr., assistant dean of students. “It was a definite violation of the curfew,” said Terry, “and no matter how much you disagree with the rule, it must be enforced. If any changes are made in the rule in the future, they will not be made retroactive.” According to Terry, the IFC Judicial Board “felt that in good conscience they could not rule on the violation because the rule was in conflict with the Code of Responsibility.” Terry said the matter would probably be decided by the dean of students’ office or the Davidson College Regulations Court. The alleged violation involved the presence of two girls at a fraternity house after the designated curfew (See CURFEW, Page 6).

Spring Decision Pressed

Davidson's ROTC requirement came under fire again this week from an ad hoc committee of students who met with the Trustee Executive Committee, Jan. 16, and a student Senate proposal favoring voluntary ROTC was sent back to the Senate's committee for further study by the faculty Educational Policy Committee. The two-year requirement, which may be avoided only if a student is excused by law or a note from his parents, was the object of criticism from both student groups. Members of the student ad hoc committee had a prepared statement for the trustees, which requested further explanation of reasons for the ROTC requirement and invited members of the board to Davidson for an open end on ROTC.

Mike Norris, Cary Puckett, Ray English, and Bob Grady represented the ad hoc committee. “We didn't want freshmen to have to commit themselves to an organization which will eventually have the power to command them to go out and shoot people,” said English. Senator Cecil Burney, a member of the predominantly-freshman ROTC Senate committee, scored what was termed “the Educational Policy committee's unwillingness to act on the voluntary ROTC proposal.” “There is a sense of urgency about this matter which (See ROTC, Page 6).”

By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

Unlike the usual pathetic turnout for opening night of the Hungry I, about 40 students came to hear the country-rock music of Natchez Trace on Monday evening. Natchez Trace is a four-man electric country-rock group from Cleveland, Ohio. They get their name from the Natchez Trace, a pioneer road between Natchez, Miss., and Nashville, Tenn., which was used in the early 19th century.

TRACING MODERN MUSIC

The Natchez Trace entertains students at Union’s Hungry I.

Natchez Trace Not Bad For A Very New Group

Considering the fact that the group has been together for only three months, their first performance at the Hungry I was commendable. The lead singer, Jim Murray, has an excellent voice and is a versatile guitarist. It is hard to tell that the drummer Ben Cabell has only been playing for three months. “They like to jam and do it pretty well,” according to Charlie Page, director of the Hungry I. They fell apart, however, on their version of the Beatles’ “Birthday.” According to bass player Bruce Kentner, Natchez Trace has a backlog of over 40 songs. Murray, who writes most of their own music, sang two of his love ballads, “It’s Love” and “I’ll Try.” The group does not confine itself to its own music, yet they do not use other artists’ material as fillers. Their repertory Monday night included the Beatles’ “Act Naturally” and “Birthday,” and others including several Buf- (See HUNGRY, Page 6).

Hearing Monday

The fate of Mrs. Colleen Norket’s application for a beer and wine permit will be decided Monday morning by the state Board of Alcoholic Control. Mrs. Norket said this week. Mrs. Norket, who is appealing an earlier administrative decision denying her the permit, has the right to appear before the board, but has indicated she will not. Instead, her attorney, Melville Broughton, will present the case to the board in Raleigh. However, Mrs. Norket said an ABC official in Charlotte had intimated that she will receive the permit. Mrs. Norket’s original application was turned down after Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson and the Davidson Town Council opposed it. However, she appealed the decision and was heard by the ABC appeal board Jan. 9. The delay since then has come because the full ABC board meets only once a month, and it must make the final decision. If Mrs. Norket receives the permit, it will be the first time beer has been legally sold within the Town of Davidson. The college charter carried an anti-alcohol provision, banning sales within five miles, until several years ago, when two students tried to turn in Hattie’s.