Page Six October 17, 1969

REBT Ly EEE OEE AR ETE TRIN NO RITES

Outside Perspective

Carthage Bans Updike’s Bestseller

Several professors at Carthage College, in Kenosha, Wis., have taken a stand against the John Updike bestseller, “Couples,” according to the campus paper, “The Arrow.” The paper reports that the book was ordered by the campus bookstore and then returned on delivery because the store manager, Stanley Hagan, thought the book was risque. The issue has caused quite a controversy among several of the faculty members, who claim that the book should not be banned from the shelves. According to the paper, Hagan cited his reason for keeping the book as, “This is a Christian school, and I think we have to maintain standards.”

YAF Aims Suits At ‘Tolerant’ Administrators, Disrupters

Duke University and the University of North Carolina are among the 32 colleges and universities identified by the Young Americans for Freedom as “priority targets,” in a campaign against students who disrupt classes. The campaign, labeled the “campus freedom offensive,” is aimed at the New Left and members of the Students for a Democratic Society. The YAF intends to bring two kinds of suits, one against the class disrupters themselves, and the other — a breach of contract suit — against administrators who did not maintain uninterrupted classes. Duke and UNC were the only Southern schools in the list of institutions where the YAF said its members would “exert special emphasis.”

Leach-In (Continued From Page 1)

Students groaned and laughed at these unfulfilled promises. “The terrible thing,” said Jackson, “is not that these men made mistakes. We're all human; we all make mistakes. The terrible thing is that they had serious doubts all along.” Jackson then repudiated “all Democrats who are trying to make a partisan issue out of the war.” Moving on to the present administration, he noted that during the election Nixon often said, “I have a plan to end the war.” “It’s an installment plan,” Jackson remarked, and asked why there should be any more killing. “The difference between withdrawing with grace and ending the war decisively is more American deaths,” he said. “Noting that Vice President Agnew has called upon Moratorium leaders to disavow the support of Hanoi. Jackson replied, “Well, Mr. Vice President, we repudiate Hanoi, and we call on you to repudiate the Thieu-Ky dictatorship in South Vietnam.” Jackson called upon the administration to withdraw unilaterally all troops from South Vietnam by the end of 1970, saying that this action should not be subject to veto by either Hanoi or Saigon. He received a standing ovation at the end of his speech.

Dr. Max E. Polley, Professor of Bible and Religion, recalled an old friend, the Quaker minister Norman Morrison who burned himself to death. In doing what he did, Polley said, Morrison showed his resentment for what the government was doing, and his great love for all mankind. The Quaker hated nationalism and the influence of the military, Polley recalled.

Dr. Robert L. Avinger, Assistant Professor of Economics, cited some fascinating population and casualty statistics which proved that since the North Vietnamese growth rate is three times as great as ours, there is indeed a war of attrition being waged against us. Proportionately, he concluded, we are losing more men than the Communists. Asked about the so-called “peace deficit,” he replied that it would probably be small.

Dr. Fred Gaige of the South Asian studies program has spent two years in Nepal in the Himalayas, and described how the Army and the landed aristocracy there are impeding needed reforms. If South Vietnam had gone Communist in the fifties, he said, a nationalistic Communist state would have developed which China would not dominate, because of the traditional hatred of the Vietnamese people for China. Asked about the so-called “Domino theory,” according to which all of South Asia will fall to Communism if South Vietnam does, Gaige rejected it, saying each country should be considered separately. Cambodia and Thailand are stable, he said, but Laos is in trouble and Burma is a mess.

Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, Professor of Economics, began his speech by saying that he was delighted to see so many fellow traitors here today. He then dwelt for some length on the controversy surrounding his alleged “socialism.” “In any other country in the world,” he said, “I'd be a socialist. But in America, nobody in his right mind would be a socialist.” As Dr. Patterson sees it, the main problem with Vietnam is the problem of surplus capital. In the past, countries of Europe have grabbed for colonies all around the world. They would sink their surplus capital in these colonies to get raw materials for their home industries. But since the decline of imperialism, such devices as higher government spending, Lend-Lease, and military expenditures have been seized upon to use up surplus capital.

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
DON HOYT

Assistant Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
JOHN FINE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
FRED WILSON

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
DON PARMAN
A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Asst. Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Steve Roady, George Kaneklides, Bill Davenport, Rich Wilson, Bill Eskridge, Gray Wilson, Neil Coghill, Chris Johnson, and Paul Johnson.

The Davidsonian

Park Sees Little Change In India

By RICH WILSON
Staff Writer

Reflecting on the last decade of India’s current history, Dr. Richard L. Park, professor of political science at the University of Michigan and specialist on South Asia, predicted what changes will be made in India during the next 10 years. Park, who has written numerous books on India, delivered on Tuesday two lectures: the first, held in Perkins auditorium, was entitled “India: Politics of Modernization,” and the second held in Hodson Hall concerned “India in the 1970s: A Political Projection.” In both lectures, Park touched on the past and current problems of India and commented on what will be done to solve these problems in the future. However, he did comment that because so many things have to be done, some problems won't even be approached in the forthcoming decade.

Concerning the physical appearance of India, Park, who has lived in Southeast Asia for 13 years, felt that in 1980 India will look exactly like it does today. “Ancient civilizations such as India don’t change very fast,” he noted. “Because India is a very poor country, much will remain untouched, especially the rural areas.” Park illustrated this painfully slow process of change by describing how the Indians rebuild their mud brick houses by replacing with fired bricks what is eroded by rain. “In a number of years,” he said, “they have a house entirely built of fired brick. Although this process is advantageous from an economic point of view, the time involved in this change seems like an eternity.” And as time goes on, India’s population crisis increases. Park cited some statistics. “In 1959 India had a population of about 404 million; its population today is about 533 million. Despite her effort to encourage birth control, India’s population will probably continue to increase at a rate of 13 million per annum, so that by 1979 she will have 130 million more people than she has today.”

In connection with the birth control movement, Park elaborated on some of the methods which are now being employed. “Sripati Chandrasekhar, Minister of Health and Family Planning, is behind the birth control drive,” he said. Although there are various devices for women, the major emphasis is on an operation which in effect would sterilize the male. In fact, there are clinics on trains where men can go in, have the operation, and get off at their stop. Signs are posted all around.Encouraging men to have this operation, and some people make their living by bringing men into the clinics. However, with 533 million people spread throughout some 550,000 villages, I don’t feel that these efforts are going to help the situation much. And statistics so far show a minimum of variance,” Park said.

Addressing himself to India’s political situation, Park felt that “the system will present a strong hold on. India’s parliamentary government has a stability due to a history of able leaders and a movement from the national history dating to the 1870s.” Although India is large and is split into many factions, the Congress seems to be able to absorb people from the right and left. “Gandhi does her old song by proclaiming the socialist line, but in reality, the Congress is basically conservative,” he said.

Park sees little threat of a takeover by the communist forces or those of the military in the event of a crisis. “The trouble of the communists in India is that they are split three ways into the Moscow wing, the Peking wing, and the active Peking wing. This split decimates the weight of threat.” “The military doesn’t pose much of a threat either. The idea of civilian control of the armed forces is deeply ingrained in the Indian people,” Park said. “The only case in which the military might take over is in the event of an invasion by China, which I don’t see in the near future. In fact, I feel an agreement will be made between Communist China and India in the next few years,” Park predicted.

Socially, Park feels the change in urban areas will be rapid. He cited the example that it was difficult to maintain the caste system on a bus. However, in rural areas, the caste system won’t be broken so easily. “In the rural areas where the number of cities is not enough to absorb the people coming off the fields, public facilities must be improved including water supply, roads, schools, and housing,” he said. “With the production of the new kind of rice, India is over the hump in food supply, although now they must face the problem of disease arising from it and people not liking the taste. In general,” Park concluded, “the problem of the ‘70s will be urbanization, and this problem is going to come when India is not prepared for it. With the advent of professionalized farming, there is a constant migration to the cities, but the number of cities is not enough to absorb the people coming off the fields.”

Moratorium official battlefield casualty figures are inaccurate. “If the soldier makes it to a hospital alive,” said Newkirk, “he’s not counted as a casualty, even if he dies there.”

(Continued From Page 1)

Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, Professor of Economics, delivered an engaging address which related the Vietnam question to the problem of surplus capital. Dr. David Kaylor, Associate Professor of Bible and Religion, and Mr. Norman Johnson, Assistant Professor of History, were scheduled to speak but declined, since the program was running behind and they felt that most of what they were planning to say had been said.

John Newkirk, who has done civilian refugee work in Vietnam, spoke at 5 p.m. Newkirk recalls Vietnam as a beautiful country with a minority population which has made money from our military presence and thus favors our involvement. But economics aside, he said, they find us barbarous because we lack their rich heritage. Newkirk recalled that while he was in Vietnam, although the U.S. presence was “tremendous,” whenever American troops entered a district, “travel suddenly became very insecure.” Newkirk’s experience with doctors at a military hospital in Pleiku convinced him that official battlefield casualty figures are inaccurate. “If the soldier makes it to a hospital alive,” said Newkirk, “he’s not counted as a casualty, even if he dies there.” Only those killed on the battlefield are listed as killed.

The 1967 elections held by the Thieu-Ky regime showed how little public support the present government has, Newkirk said. He pointed out that Gen. Thieu, running for President, won with only 36% of the votes, and failed to carry a single large population area. Newkirk said the South Vietnamese army has the most troops in the rural areas where the communists are strongest. Both the Johnson and Nixon administrations, said Newkirk, suffer from credibility gaps, which he finds “not too different.” “We are still trying to force our goals upon the South Vietnamese,” he charged.

At 8 p.m. Wednesday night, beginning with a candlelight march from Chambers, students conducted a worship service for the dead of Vietnam. Black armbands had been passed out during the day.

HBC (Continued From Page 1)

When pressed by one student as to how seriously he viewed the possibility that a large segment of the sophomore class might transfer, Ostwalt responded, “We are operating from a point of concern about the individual student as well as for the total curriculum of Davidson College. To assume that we are operating in response to pressure and threats would be a grave mistake.” The students present agreed to wait for the final result. Clodfelter, however, mentioned that another sophomore meeting would be held within two weeks if the decision were still forthcoming at that time.

Affiliation Discussion Continues

Interviews with fraternity presidents this week indicate that there is little chance that other fraternities will follow Sigma Chi in “going local.” Only one house, Kappa Alpha, is seriously considering disaffiliation from their national. A vote on the issue is expected in the near future. The presidents of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Beta Theta Pi, and Sigma Nu said that no discussion is taking place at their respective houses. Johnny Baker, president of Beta Theta Pi, reported that there is a small inactive faction in his house that wants to go local and some who want to replace the whole fraternity system.

(Staff photo by Davidson)

‘NIXON’ ADDRESSES RALLY

The faithful were aroused by his unscheduled talk.

CHARLOTTE'S NO. 1 Boutique

200 Independence

SHRUDE M. F.

Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts, Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense

HOLDEN CO.

Great-Sounding Phonograph. Where is it?

KLH designed the Model Eleven-W stereo phonograph to produce a maximum of music with a minimum of visible equipment. You will have to look hard to spot the Model Eleven-W in a room. Its control center is just a bit bigger than the records it plays, and the speakers are the size of shoeboxes. But you don’t have to search for the sound. It’s as big as all indoors—the kind of sound produced only by massive and expensive audio systems. The secret of the Model Eleven-W is a quality of engineering that no one ever thought of lavishing on something so small and unpretentious. KLH designed unique miniature speakers that can move more air (for really deep bass) than far larger console speakers, plus complementary electronic circuitry that provides exactly the proportion of power the speakers need at different frequencies.

As for what you can see, there is a custom-built Garrard record changer with a Pickering magnetic cartridge and diamond stylus. And the cabinetry, what little there is of it, is of genuine walnut veneers, not plastic or the kind of wood that might as well be plastic. Come in and search out the KLH Model Eleven-W. You will find its sound out of all proportion to its size and cost. $199.95

TREND STEREO CENTER

900 So. Kings Dr. Charlotte, N.C. Open 9 to 9 Daily

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

JACK’S GRILL

NOW UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT

Play POOL or PINBALL while sipping your favorite BEER or eating your favorite Sandwich

Located On Highway 152 Halfway Between Davidson & Mt. Mourne