PHILIPPE ENTREMONT At Fine Arts series Monday night. Entremont Show ‘Fresh, Pleasing’ The Fine Arts series ended last Monday night on an upbeat as young French concert pianist Philippe Entremont brought his highly acclaimed tour to an appreciative audience of about 400 in Love Auditorium. Entremont played selections from Bach, Mozart, Schumann, Debussy, Prokofiev, always with a fresh and innovative interpretation which the pianist may some day be able to call his “own personal style.” Banging away into the second movement of Schumann's “Etude,” Entremont seemed to be as carried away with the velocity of the piece as was the audience. Given his clear and technically perfect style, it was left to his very evident exuberance to render his heavy classical selections with a pleasing touch which the audience could so thoroughly identify with. It was his empathy with his music that sustained the performance from start to finish. The pieces, starting with Bach and ending with Prokofiev, moved progressively from the purely intellectual to the emotional, and finally to the purely concrete images of Debussy. Entremont's career in the United States has been one of phenomenal success. It began in 1953 with back-to-back concerts in Washington and Carnegie Hall in New York. Since then he has been a favorite of audiences in six continents. More than a million of his recordings on the Columbia label have been sold in this country. His best records are collaborations with Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic, and Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra. Entremont has been awarded the Grand Prix du Disque, France's highest award to an artist, and the Netherlands' coveted Edison award. Monday's performance was his second appearance at Davidson.

LISA & LEATHERWOOD To appear at Hungry d April 1-5.

Student Exchange Program To Be Renewed This Year By JULE YOUNG Staff Writer According to present plans, Davidson's student exchange program is to be renewed during the spring term. The program, which sent several students on a four-day mission to Pennsylvania’s Haverford College last year, is intended to help Davidson gather good ideas in use on other campuses. Joe Kilpatrick, one of the students who visited Haverford and leader of the Student Exchange program, said, “Davidson can profit in many ways from this program: it gives us an opportunity to find out what is going on at other colleges of similar size.” He said that he felt the trip to Haverford was valuable for its information on self-scheduled exams, as well as for the additional information it provided on a Code of Responsibility. Kilpatrick observed that he hoped cooperation could be developed between the student exchange idea and the commissions appointed by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “In this way,” Kilpatrick said, “we can examine the efforts and programs of other colleges on matters which are coming under study at Davidson, such as co-education, extra campus responsibilities, and religious affiliation.” This could be a financial saving, with the budgets of both the Student Exchange Committee and the Spencer commissions being pooled for such exchanges. Presently, there is no organized list of the colleges to be visited in the spring. However, in addition to his Series Africa Allen said that he hoped that this course might tend to stimulate increased interest in African area studies at Davidson. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college, is teaching a course on Negro history for the Free University, the first course on the campus concerning Negro studies.

KA Pledges Plan On 20th Century Africa By DICK ANDERSON Associate Editor The pledge class of Kappa Alpha social fraternity is sponsoring a program entitled “Twentieth Century Africa.” The program, which will be held Thursday night for seven weeks after April 3, will be given by Professor Noyce Dube of Johnson C. Smith University. Dube, who has studied at Dadya University in Rhodesia as well as at American and British institutions, is a member of the Department of African Studies at JCSU. “We felt that this year's pledge project should benefit the college community as a whole as well as the fraternity,” said Bobby Allen, a KA pledge who worked on the project. Allen said that the money for the project was being provided by the fraternity and the pledges themselves, although about $50 is coming from the College Union Activities Fund and one dollar will be collected from each of the 60 persons to participate in the lecture series. The program is entirely separate from the Free University, although one of the publicity sheets says that the program is “in the spirit of the Free University.” A syllabus put out by Dube listed subjects for the lecture series. The first “will examine Africa in its cultural and institutional varieties.” Other subjects include the nature and origin of African political parties, “the horror of legalized racism,” relations between Africa and the West, and “the new African elite.” This elite includes leaders such as Nkrumah, Nyerere, Jomo Kenyatta, Kaunda, Ndabaningi Sithole, Senghor, Kasavubu, Tshombe, and Lumumba. Allen said that he hoped that this course might tend to stimulate increased interest in African area studies at Davidson. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college, is teaching a course on Negro history for the Free University, the first course on the campus concerning Negro studies.

Leatherwood & Lisa Rock At Next Week’s Hungry D By GEORGE PARK Staff Writer Leatherwood & Lisa, a psychedelic-rock group with country flavor, will be the main attraction at the Hungry D on April 1-5, sponsored by the College Union. Leatherwood plays both the six and 12-string guitar and Lisa plays tambourine, maracas, and comb. They both sing. Alan Leatherwood began his career as a musician while attending the University of Hawaii. There he made his first recording. Though it was a hit on the islands, it never made it to the mainland. Nevertheless, he left school to sing. After a brief period under the Old Town label in New York, Leatherwood became disillusioned with the recording industry. He left it to “concentrate on reacquiring his love of music. At this point he started playing folk houses in Cleveland, Toronto, and colleges in the mideast.” Then he married Lisa and they began a joint career. She had begun singing with rhythm and blues around Cleveland when she was 16. She was first billed as Mona and the Crescents. Then she sang with him at a party, and became Lisa Leatherwood. The young couple (He is 24, she 20) made their first appearance as the act Leatherwood and Lisa at Faragher's Backroom in Cleveland, where they were a house act for a year and a half. Since then they have joined and have played on college campuses all over the country.By STEVE CROSS
Asst. Managing Editor

The policy of separate dormitories for freshmen will continue, according to Mrs. Peter Nichols, director of student housing. Incomplete results of a survey taken last month convinced her that the old policy of class segregation was preferred by students.

“The results were very slow in coming in," said Mrs. Nichols, “but we've completed enough of them to know that we're going ahead with the regular hall counselors plan as usual.”

Putting upperclassmen in the freshman dorms would have made it necessary to revise the freshman handbook, she said. In addition, a form of “de facto segregation” would have existed anyway, because the students like some dormitories better than others. Mrs. Nichols said if more upperclassmen were to be admitted to the freshman dorms, then signing up for rooms next year would have to be manipulated in some way to make rooms in East, Cannon, and Watts available to upperclassmen.

Mrs. Nichols had proposed to the Dean's Council, of which she is a member, this integration of freshmen and upperclassmen, but some council members, she said, were reluctant to revise the present set-up. The issue was also raised with the Residence Hall Council, she said, and freshman members generally favored the idea. Upperclassmen on the RHC were divided, some fearing rush would be undermined by such a system.

“Davidson College is a minority because it segregates its freshmen and upperclassmen,” explained Mrs. Nichols. She added that most other colleges integrate freshmen and upperclassmen in all dormitories. “If this is the trend,” she said, “then I think we ought to try it.”

CAB Stalls Youth Fare Judgment
By CHRIS BICKLEY
Staff Writer

The Civil Aeronautics Board is currently deciding the fate of youth air fares. Pro and con arguments were presented last week to the five-member board, but when contacted in Washington, a spokesman for CAB said that a decision is not expected for several months.

The current arguments over youth fares stem from a suit filed by Trailways Bus Company and a national trade organization of bus operators. In its suit, Trailways alleges that the discounts given students are illegal because they discriminate against persons over 22. Youth Fare currently is alive, and if it is to die, it will die a slow death. Besides the several months it will take CAB to reach a decision, the airlines will most certainly challenge any ruling against the youth fare discounts. The final decision will probably be in the hands of the courts or Congress. Several congressmen have expressed a desire to amend the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 so that youth fares are specifically permitted.

Kilpatrick also said there were chances for student exchange within North Carolina, particularly the Charlotte area. “I'm particularly excited about the exchange possibilities which are available within the newly developed Charlotte area educational venture with Belmont Abbey, Johnson C. Smith, and several other local colleges and universities,” Kilpatrick said. He speculated that both students and institutions could effectively pool their talents within the Charlotte area, exchanging ideas as well as facilities, perhaps formulating a program of regional studies which would involve students from all the involved schools in an exchange of ideas on the economic, social, and racial issues of the area.

Student exchange visits to other schools have in the past been limited to long weekends. Kilpatrick stressed that one goal of the exchange program is to allow students to stay at other schools for longer periods, perhaps for a semester. Although he noted that Davidson’s academic calendar may prove prohibitive, Kilpatrick said, “Davidson needs to move away from the concept that a degree from Davidson means four continual years on the campus. A program allowing students to take part in the programs of other colleges for, say, a semester, can be of tremendous educational value.”

Kilpatrick stated that student exchange programs would be open to all students, although some of the participants in the program might be SGA senators. “We'll be formulating more specific plans in the spring as to exactly which schools we'll visit and when. At that time all interested students will be asked to sign up,” Kilpatrick said.

The Davidsonian
March 28, 1969
Page Three

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, March 28
6 p.m. Social Patterns Commission
6:15 p.m. “Funny Girl”

Saturday, March 29
All Day

Monday, March 31
7:30 p.m. Co-Education Commission

Tuesday, April 1
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Social Patterns Commission
Wildcat A Love Auditorium
Wildcat A Green Room
Morrison Room Leatherwood & Lisa

Wednesday, April 2
7 p.m. French Film: Love Auditorium “Last Year At Marienbad”
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room Leatherwood & Lisa

Thursday, April 3
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium Wind Ensemble
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room Leatherwood & Lisa

Friday, April 4
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room Leatherwood & Lisa

Newspaper Wins 14th Top Rating

For the 4th straight semester, THE DAVIDSONIAN has won an All-American honor rating from judges of the Associated Collegiate Press at the University of Minnesota. All-American is the highest rating given by ACP.

“Most criticisms here are knit-picking because that’s all there is to criticize,” the ACP judge said. “You do a fine professional job.” The judge gave THE DAVIDSONIAN maximum points for its balance, editorials, sports coverage and writing, style and leads, and said the paper's creativeness is “exceptionally well done.” Among the areas criticized by the judge were headlines, printing, and technical quality. The judge also praised Associate Editor Robert Pyeatt’s “Other Davidson” series and the fall feature pages on Davidson traditions and married students.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

MORE THAN TIN-DEEP

Sure, you like a sharp-looking car. Clean lines. Gleaming sheet metal. The whole beauty bit. So do we. But there’s more to an Olds than a coat of paint or a few hunks of chrome. A solid Body by Fisher, for instance. Rugged frames. Bump-gobbling suspensions. Engines that really know how to stretch a gallon or get you there in a hurry. And all the goodies. Stereo. Buckets. Sport wheels. Whatever you want in your package, you couldn't find a nicer package to put it in.