Cats’ Tracks.
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

The Dream Continues

At first, it was an impossible dream. Gradually, however, week by week, it developed and advanced from the stage of
impossibility to stages of improbability, uncertainty, possibility, probability, and almost to certainty, only to have a five-minute disaster wipe out
weeks of progress. And so that football dream of a berth in the Tangerine Bowl and national respectability and recognition
has once again returned to the stages of impossibility. Yet did these delusions of grandeur, these hopes of a first-ever
conference gridiron title and bowl-bid actually end in Charleston last Saturday? Not really, especially if one analyzes the present situation.

If two teams eventually tie for the conference title, the crown and Tangerine Bowl berth go to the team with
the better record in the conference game between the co-champions. Here, if Davidson were to win both of its remaining
conference games, and The Citadel were to lose to Richmond, both teams would have 10-1 records. The Citadel will be
playing Richmond in the Spiders’ homecoming game, and Richmond hasn’t lost a conference game at home in a long, long
time. Don’t count on The Citadel being the Southern Conference representative this year, in any bowl.

Therefore, the Wildcats’ two remaining conference games, tomorrow against VMI and next Saturday at East Carolina, take on that much
more meaning. For the first time, Davidson will be in the Avis role of trying to catch the leader. If
the Wildcats can actually catch The Citadel, then, just like the Mets, they deserve every honor that comes their way.
The first step toward the impossible dream will be tomorrow's game with the Keydets from VMI. VMI hasn’t won this
year, but then the Keydets hadn’t won last year when they came to Davidson, either, and still managed to take
their only victory of the year at the Wildcats’ expense. There isn’t much difference in the VMI teams of last
year and this year, but there of course is a difference in the Davidson teams, and therefore the Wildcats have
got to be rated as heavy favorites.

The leading Keydet rusher this season is Tom Sowers, who last season ran the ball 52 times for 217 yards
and two touchdowns in one game against Davidson. This year, however, fortune hasn’t smiled as much on Sowers and he
has managed only 156 yards in 46 carries, for no scores. Actually, fate hasn’t been too kind to any of
the VMI boys this year. VMI has managed only 66 first downs in six games, and 10 of those have
come from penalties. In comparison, their opposition has rolled up almost 150 first downs.

The Keydets have managed only three touchdowns, going the first three games of the season without scoring. They opened with
a 55-0 drubbing by Rice, then lost 20-0 and 32-0 to Richmond and West Virginia. And then there was joy
in Lexington. VMI scored twice in their next game, losing to Virginia only by 28-10. Following were 28-2 and 25-17
losses to The Citadel and William & Mary. One of the main weaknesses for the Keydets this year has been
at quarterback, where Murphy Sprinkle has led the team with 46 completions out of 156 attempts for 534 yards, or
less than 90 yards a game.

The Wildcats’ present statistics are much more impressive. Gordon Slade is second in the nation in passing, having completed 126
of 188 passes for 1412 yards and 12 TDs. Mike Kelley ranks third, George Hannen ninth, and Mike Mikolayunas 15th
in the nation in receiving, while Ed Terry is 18th in scoring by kicking.

By all indications, then, Davidson will win tomorrow’s contest handily. But then there is last year to take into consideration.
Here’s hoping...

By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

Pfeiffer College will be matched against one of the best losing soccer squads around when they meet the Davidson Wildcats
this afternoon in Misenheimer. Despite the team’s 3-5 record thus far, coach Harry Fogleman has nothing but words of praise
for the Wildcats, who won the Southern Conference southern district championship last year.

The Citadel victory over Davidson was a costly one for the Wildcats, however, as they lost the services of several
key players.

By BILLY COBB
Sports Writer

With a freshman team and fresh from fall practice, coach Harry Fogleman’s tennis team will be entering this spring’s session
with hopes of bettering last year’s 12-13 record, the first losing team Fogleman had at Davidson. The team will be
captained this spring by senior Randy Jones, the number three player last year. Also returning after missing last season with
mononucleosis will be junior James Cantrell. As far as the conference opposition is concerned, defending champion Furman will return with
last year's same squad, and George Washington, The Citadel, and William and Mary will also field strong teams.

Fogleman looks for three or four freshmen to be in the top six singles matches. He had an outstanding recruiting
year and landed four top prospects for college tennis. One of Fogleman’s prize catches is Robert Loury from Burlington, who
was state singles champion the past two years in high school competition. Also, Jeff Dumansky from Leonia, N.J. was ranked
sixth in the Eastern Juniors last year and David Weaver from Roanoke, Va. was a top player in the mid-Atlantic
area. Another freshman, Gordon Graham from Pella, Iowa, is on a basketball scholarship, but was also State tennis champion in
Iowa besides being an all-star cager. He will be available to play after basketball season ends. Other freshmen players are
Harry Lankenan from Chappaqua, N.Y. and Gray Smith from Winston-Salem, while sophomore Frank Dana from Columbia, S.C., rounds out the
squad. The team begins practice on Feb 9.

Phi Delts Nearing Title As Sig Eps, Pikas Lose
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The Phi Delts wrapped up the IMAC flickerball title this week for all practical purposes as they won three games
in a row to run their record to 9-0. The teams which are closest to the Delts in the standings
are the KA's, Pikas, and Sig Eps, all of whom have lost two games. The Delts beat the previously unbeaten
Sig Eps last Friday, 38-25, slid by the Kappa Sigs on Monday, 31-6, and routed the Independents, 56-12, on Wednesday.

By beating the Sig Eps, the Delts eliminated their final challenger for the championship and took over sole possession of
first place. The game started out quite even. The Delts scored first, but the Sig Eps came back on a
long play to Craig Garner set up by tailback Garner. The Sig Eps’ offense played a strong game, but the
differences in defenses determined the outcome. The Sig Eps played basically a man-to-man defense, while the Delts utilized a zone.
The zone proved more effective, as John McCammon, Jimmy Wright, and Walter Sprunt played outstanding defensive games for the Delts.

On Monday, the Kappa Sigs played the Delts even for a half, as they trailed only 7-6. But in the
second half, the Delts took control of the game. They always had at least a one-touchdown lead after their first
score of the second half. Tailback Bill Traxler played his usual steady game, as he directed several Delt touchdown drives.
Jeff Chetwood, Jack Steele, and Cliff Duke were the outstanding receivers for the Delts.Jim Cantrell to tie the score. Both
teams scored again to half. Traxler got the score knotted at 14-14 at ** moving with passes to Chet-wood, Steele,
and Gene Early. From that point on, the Delts began to gradually pull away, as their defense sewed up the
game. The injury-ridden Sig Eps dropped a close decision to the Kappa Sigs, 31-25. Blair Abee led a Pika offense
which played its best game of the season in the SPE victory. On one play, even “Hopalong” Hendren was able
to out-hobble the whole SPE secondary into the end zone. Mark Affeldt intercepted three passes to anchor the defense. The
SPEs were admittedly shorthanded, however. Their top player, Jim Cantrell, was out with a pulled muscle. In their loss to
the Kappa Sigs, the Pikas were victims of their own mistakes and an opportunistic Sig defense. David Russell intercepted three
passes, one for a touchdown, and the Sigs also scored on a kickoff and a punt return. They scored two
touchdowns in the last minute of the game to pull out the victory.

The second-place team, the KAs, won their only game of the week with a score of 31-25 against the Kappas.

WELCOME BACK ALUMNI
Best Of Luck To The "Cats For A Great Homecoming
The Red Hanger
Davidson, N. C.

Fogleman Clinch Division, Aim For Winning Season

Patterson with two broken ribs. Fogleman called the game “extremely rough,” and placed part of the blame on the officials
who did “a poor job of controlling the game.” The overtime win was especially gratifying for the Cats in the
face of all their one-point losses this season. In a match Tuesday, St. Andrews nailed another goal. Fogleman placed the
blame for the losing season in part on the opposition. “We have an awful lot of good talent, but it’s
just a very tough schedule. We play schools which do not have football teams, so soccer is the big sport
there. The schools that have football teams are tough as well. Not only scoring but on the penalty kick and
heading well. He has ten goals and three penalty kicks.”

PICK ON SOMEONE YOUR OWN SIZE
John Bruner bullies a steal from a St. Andrews player.

Freshmen Pace Squad As Netters End Fall Drills

The Davidson record is 2-2, which includes both penalty kicks and goals. The bright prospects for next season are Culbertson,
Peterson, and goalie Charlie Heiner. “Heiner has been outstanding by everybody we’ve played,” said Fogleman. The team still has four
games to try for a winning season, including this afternoon’s match with Pfeiffer. The other matches are with North Carolina
State, Emory, and the Southern Conference championship game with either George Washington or William and Mary.

OFF AND RUNNING
Stagg Newman led the Davidson cross-country team in Tuesday’s quadruple meet with several area schools by finishing eleventh.

The Davidsonian - October 31, 1969 Page Five

You Won't Believe...
by MARSHALL FEASTER
Sports Writer

A God-Forsaken Place

The Citadel is a God-forsaken place. If you ever approach the campus at night (try to avoid it at all
times if possible), a guard sticks an M-1 or something in your face and asks what you are doing there.
The football stadium and parking area are located in what was a swamp that was previously used for hand grenade
and mortar practice. The school itself looks much like the fortress that the name calls to mind. It is pretty
easy to imagine what a place like that could do to someone. And what about Davidson? You might think that
after leaving the Citadel, Davidson would seem like a paradise. But the Citadel has its own brand of charm. The
cadets are tough, and they show it. They are tough enough to kill Charlie and win in Vietnam. After completing
this ritual, they are allowed to proceed to the stands to watch the game. This isn't accomplished in what might
be called an orthodox manner either. They are dismissed two at a time. Upon dismissal, the soldier boys run across
the field and up into the stands. Yet they aren't satisfied just to run. Every so often, a cadet will
throw himself onto the field, roll over and over, and see how many of his buddies he can trip. Being
neither agile enough nor able to think quickly enough (if at all), quite a few boys go down in a
heap. This gives the crowd a big laugh.

After those who have survived the dash have finally gotten into their seats, they must decide what the dress for
the game will be. Saturday they voted in favor of taking off their coats. It was amusing, to say the
least, to look out and see all of them in their gray wool pants, held up by contrasting white suspenders.
Their completely exposed baby blue undershirts really made the outfit complete. While most of the corps do their thing, the
band also takes part in a special function. They align themselves along part of the field and harass the visiting
team as it warms up. I guess wearing a uniform makes anyone feel tough. After all of these activities are
completed, the football game can begin. Throughout the game, the corps continues to show its more-than-mild enthusiasm by yelling so
loudly that the opposing team can't hear well enough to check off at the line. In addition, they continue their
personal intimidation by pouring their vociferous wrath on any opposing player or coach whenever the opportunity arises.

In spite of all the school’s natural disadvantages, The Citadel’s current football team is a good one. Both their running
and passing games were impressive Saturday, and we didn’t move consistently against their defense. Yet we played pretty well ourselves
— probably well enough to have won under normal circumstances. But the circumstances weren’t normal at all, and we lost.
Anyone who talks of the likes of the crowd’s hostility being a big factor in a loss stands open to
sour grapes criticism. So, open I stand. I cannot convince myself that we wouldn’t have beaten them if the game
had been played before a civilized audience. I will admit, though, that The Citadel was psyched up for the game
— it was homecoming and they were playing hated Davidson. They even had something else going for them — they
could stay out past midnight if they won.

This week it’s our turn. We are going to play a homecoming game at home for a change. That in
itself will get the team up. Even in the loss last week, the players proved themselves by coming back twice
when two touchdowns behind in spite of both The Citadel football team and the crowd (who were quite correctly referred
to as the twelfth man on the field by the p.a. announcer).

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA SHRUDE
M. F. HOLDEN CO.
CHARLOTTE’S NO. 1 Boutique
200 Independence
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense
PHONE 892-9308

Cashion Gulf Service
ALL BRANDS OF OIL
PICK-UP & DELIVERY SERVICE
P. O. Box 422 - Main St.
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
THE VILLAGE STORE
