The Davidsonian January 17, 1969 Page Three

Murphy’s Irreverent Style Brings Victory, Progress
By DANNY WHITE
Staff Writer

“People around here need to be shaken up a little!” That was the sentiment expressed by Joe Murphy in his campaign for the SGA Presidency last March, and the same theme has carried over into his administration this year.

As a member of the now defunct Student Council, Murphy cast the image of a maverick campaigning for more student power and more practical luxuries such as vending machines, coke machines, and telephones. This tone carried over into his campaign for the presidency as Murphy blasted the Student Council and the “good guy followers” that traditionally control it.

“I think it’s time for ACTION by the student body, and especially by its supposed leaders. The student government needs to think rather than agree, to speak rather than keep silent, to work rather than hope. We cannot afford another year of backing down.”

Murphy, then, began his presidency as a crusader for student involvement in college policy and against what he considered the major campus problem—student apathy. How well Murphy has accomplished his objective is debatable. What is certain, though, is that his leadership and brigade-staff-meeting tactics enabled the new Senate to get off its feet and institutionalize the SGA Constitution. Murphy was able to act in his sometimes highhanded manner because his smashing victory over six rather conventional opponents in the election seemed to express the mandate of the students for a new medium of communication of their desires to the college hierarchy.

Before Murphy, student politics at Davidson had been marked by a quiet, behind-the-scenes, individualized approach. New ideas were versed in terms that would offend none. Murphy’s supporters apparently felt that the old method had either not proven itself or that the situation better favored his less than subtle, give-’em-hell-and-don’t-take-any-bull-for-an-answer approach. Most of the candidates differed very little in their proposals, but the real issue at stake was the means to be used to achieve these objectives. As a DAVIDSONIAN editorial pointed out at the time, “Murphy’s election puts student government on a mountain ledge, from which it can scale new heights or fall into the valley of disrepute.”

Murphy’s type of approach has been successful in colleges and universities outside of the South, but its success on the Davidson scene has been both surprising and pleasing to most Davidson students. Although not directly responsible for the Code of Responsibility, Murphy’s Senate has expanded on its themes of student maturity and involvement, demanding—and in some cases getting—such things as drinking on campus, voluntary ROTC, fewer chapels, and open dorms.

That this year's accomplishments such as open dorms and drinking on campus might have naturally evolved from the implementation of the Code of Responsibility regardless of who held student power, is of course possible. Still, it was Murphy who took the fight to the faculty and trustees and garnered student interest by such devices as opinion questionnaires and committee appointments. It should be pointed out that Murphy became more tactful and resigned himself to working within the system once he was elected.

Murphy was by no means the only one with fresh ideas on this year’s Senate. It was largely through the work and interest of SGA Vice President Peter Hobbie that the RHA became a reality and open dorms were begun. The Free University was the brainchild of sophomore senator Rich Cowart just as the radio station owes its existence to another sophomore, Ed Hobbs.

While generally a very effective body this year, the Senate and Joe Murphy are not beyond criticism. In his haste to have his objectives accomplished, Murphy managed to disregard both the SGA Constitution and its bylaws. The Senate Executive Committee has failed in its duty to plan the agenda for each Senate meeting (what Murphy plans is what occurs). Only recently has the Senate begun to do its work by committees, as evidenced by the ROTC and chapel resolutions. However, until November when it achieved full membership, the Senate met as a whole every week and went rather slowly about its business. The Senate has also failed to punish excessive absences on the part of its members. The chancellor, the “workhorse of the Senate,” has not lived up to his duties either.

Overall, Murphy's administration has accomplished its basic objectives peacefully and with tact, with the natural result of an increase in the awareness of student power on the part of all concerned in the college’s policy-making processes. Student government at Davidson, after a year of Joe Murphy, is no longer perched precariously on a mountain ledge between heights of excellence and depths of disrepute. Most people would say it has started up the climb to new heights.

Who (Goes There?
By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

Most Davidson students don’t know who their student body officers are. A recent poll of 49 students, selected at random, revealed that at least one third of the members of each class could not name a single one of their three class senators or their dorm senator. Only five of the 49 correctly identified all of their senators and the president and vice president of the Student Government Association.

Perhaps surprisingly, representatives to the house committee of each dorm seemed better known than dorm senators, especially in the freshman class. Ninety-four percent of the freshmen polled and 93 percent of the juniors knew both the president and vice president. All of the sophomores and seniors knew them.

Thirty-four percent of the freshmen polled knew none of their class and dorm senators, while 66 percent knew some of them and 13 percent all of them. Of the sophomores polled, 40 percent knew none of their senators. Sixty percent knew some of them, and none knew all of them. Thirty-seven percent of the juniors could identify none of their senators, while 63 percent could name some of them and seven percent all of them. Of the seniors, 40 percent knew none of their senators. Sixty percent knew some of their senators and 20 percent knew all of them.

Student Government--Does It Matter Here?
Last Year’s Promises Revisited
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

It has been said in the past that all a person needs to get elected president of the student body is a warm smile, a cool disposition, and a lot of fraternity votes. A closer examination of past elections reveals this statement to be only half true: although there are bits of veracity in it. The present trend toward activism has come to Davidson only in mild form. It was these activist tendencies which Joe Murphy exhibited by promising to “stand up to the faculty and administration.” The year before it was the same tendency which prompted Tom Earnhardt's promise to “do something,” not just be a figurehead.

Although Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, has insisted that students had real power in his college days during the 30s, it is apparent that the Student Council did not wield much influence four years ago. Bill Council, who was elected student body president in March, 1965, campaigned on the platform of maintaining the present fraternity system. Council had served on the Fraternity Evaluation Committee which recommended the eventual abolition of fraternities, but had drawn up, with four other students, a minority report recommending the maintenance of the system. A torchlight demonstration in favor of this minority report prompted Professor Charles Cornwell to remark that “Davidson is the only school where students demonstrate in favor of the status quo.”

Although Council had served on another student-faculty committee, his concrete proposals were few, and his main forte seemed to be his position on the tennis team. Since he received only 11th place in his class, it is clear that his popularity was not based on academic prowess.

ED. NOTE: Nine specific proposals and the promise to be a “strong, forceful president” were what candidate Joe Murphy offered last March in his platform. Following is the partial text of that platform.

Students at Davidson have been presented a challenge to expand their basic rights. During the past year various proposals for the betterment of student life at Davidson have been made. Now is the time to enact these proposals. Enough talk—action is what is needed now. It will be the job of the new administration to:

—Open dorms on all weekends, based on a liberal schedule of parietal hours.
—Abolishment of required chapel. Speakers on campus should draw audiences on their own merit rather than through chapel attendance.
—Allowing students to take several courses for credit on a pass/fail basis.
—Students present at all faculty and trustee meetings.
—Drinking on campus.President of the student body to support for SGA President Joe Murphy... organize the SGA Vice President these proposals and to provide the leadership that will be needed to put them into practice. The day of the “good guy” president who smiles but does nothing is over. If a strong, forceful president is not elected, all the work and talk of these committees will have been wasted, and the students will remain deprived of their basic rights.

The following proposals are absolutely essential in order for Davidson to maintain an atmosphere that is both socially and academically conducive to the fur:

—Formation of a joint student-faculty code of regulations—very broad and more on the order of guidelines for conduct rather than rules for conduct.
—A joint student-faculty court to handle violations of these regulations.
—Abolishment of curfew hours at fraternity houses.
—Allowing students on need scholarships and loans to have cars. A committee should be formed to judge each case individually to ensure that expenses are in keeping with the stated requirements.

All of these proposals can be enacted if students have a strong leader and are able to utilize their full power. In order to get all of these proposals approved by the faculty and administration, it is essential that students work together to make their desires known. Such tactics ranging from the vote or petition of the student body on these important issues to peaceful demonstrations, such as a ‘drink in’ in front of Chambers, can and must be used if necessary. With proper leadership, students can make their rights known and cause the faculty to realize that it must give these rights to the student.

I have been an active member of the Student Council during the past year, serving with several faculty members on the Committee on Rules and Punishment and getting vending machines for the dorms and P.E. cuts for freshmen and sophomores. I am not afraid to stand up to the administration and present forcefully the students’ demand.

Without opposition from another candidate, his popularity with the fraternity court carried the day. The student elected president the following year, Chuck Matthews, was studying at American University on the ‘Washington semester’ at the time he was elected. His principal contribution to the Student Council as president of the sophomore class and second vice-president of the student body had been as NSA coordinator. His other projects included investigation into the traffic fines, the chapel system, and a student discount service. The only concrete proposal on his platform was pass-fail courses. His wide margin of victory was due to his steady image and the lack of other outstanding candidates.

Matthews was succeeded by Tom Earnhardt, who had also been second vice president of the student body. It is often said that Earnhardt began running for the office his freshman year. Like a good politician, he started programs which could be attached solely to his name. The Student Recruiting Committee and the Educational Planning Committee were intended to popularize the names of Davidson College and Earnhardt at the same time. He also revived the debate program almost single-handedly his sophomore year and served as president of the Debate Club. He pushed for a budget and a new coach until people were tired of listening, but he achieved his goal. His energetic image and his firm maintenance of his position as an Independent were major factors in his election. His tireless campaigning and his notes reading ‘Sorry I missed you — Tom Earnhardt’ made his name a byword among the student body. In his platform, he pushed his own programs and advocated a consistent number and quality of Artist Series performances and lectures.

Joe Murphy knew of Earnhardt’s political image and tried to portray himself as interested only in the welfare of Davidson College, not in personal political success. As junior class representative to the Student Council, Murphy too had made a concrete contribution by his renowned ‘bigger and better vending machines’ in the dormitories. Throughout the year, Murphy had been one of the only vocal members on a council dominated by Earnhardt. He was fortunate to be a member of the Committee on Rules and Punishments, which provided the biggest issue at election time. His “give ‘em hell” attitude was reflected in the many positive planks in his platform.

The role of student body president is increasing in importance. It seems, therefore, that future presidents will follow this trend of speaking out boldly on issues which admittedly are only half as important as they seem, but which represent the only student venture into politics during the college years.

Proper Campaign Tactics Revealed
By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

To succeed in politics while appearing not to try is the goal of a small minority of those who enter Davidson every year. They come with high hopes and what they think are high and noble ambitions. Many begin running for the office long before they get to Davidson. The election is only the final step in a process begun long before.

There are two basic approaches to getting elected: the open-mouthed and the rear-ended. Those who follow the former course march on to victory and those who take the latter slide down to defeat. Here is the formula for political success used since time immemorial by people running for office at Davidson:

First, a candidate should absolutely major in history, with political science only as a last resort, although poly sci majors have not fared badly in recent years. Avoid fine arts, physics, and religion. Cultivate electable qualities. Endeavor to look diligent as much as possible, especially when engaged in student government business. The only office you should ever run for is the Student Council, or Senate, as it is more grandiosely called now. In past years, the position of second vice president was considered the natural stepping stone to the presidency, and holders of that office went on to win the presidency for the seven consecutive years up to 1968. But since that office has been abolished, a place on the Senate will do. Do not join any other activities that will take up valuable time you could be using for campaigning or taking expense-paid student government junkets to other colleges to “study the educational system” or to high schools to “recruit outstanding students.”

Drink only bourbon and water, preferably in your room during the day. At night, drink coffee. There are several definite organizations you should join, and some to avoid absolutely. “Success activities” include: D Club; basketball, football, or tennis team; Union deskman; fraternity rush chairman; any student government committee or student-faculty committee; Richardson Fellows. “Failure activities” include: Phi literary society, STEP, Lingle Manor, The Miscellany, Le Cercle Francais, and THE DAVIDSONIAN.

The prospective candidate should be seen hurrying across campus looking busy as often as possible. He should dress with a studied casualness and salt his vocabulary with the right amount of profanities and have a gift for relating risqué stories that he claims were told to him by some faculty member. He should show his preference for the proletariat by dating at Queens and wolfing an occasional pizza at Lefty's, but be above frequenting the Hub late at night.