Page Six Ja Six (Continued From Page 1)

the leadership of those truly qualified to lead. “In concrete and liberal arts terms, I’m basically a Hamiltonian, not a Jeffersonian,” he said. Tallman saw one major disadvantage to a church-related college. This disadvantage “is related to the basic problem the church is not confronting - the church finds itself lagging behind the times and wonders if it has the desire to move ahead. “The fundamental dilemma that the church is in the midst of creates a problem when the church has to deal with an educational institution whose lifeblood is the study of man and his accomplishments, his present circumstances and how to synthesize the two into something new.”

January 31, 1969 - SCOTT WOODMANSEE

‘ministry of presence’

Senior Henry Whitfield Facts Lacking In Drug Cases

The met and decided “that there was not sufficient evidence” Tuesday to hold a college trial for two juniors arrested and charged with possession of drugs. The arrests were made in Prince William County, Va., on Jan. 20. A written statement signed by the three members of the Jurisdiction Committee said that the committee “considered the matter of an alleged violation of the Code of Responsibility. After deliberation, it was decided that as of the present time there was not sufficient evidence of a violation within the jurisdiction of the Code to warrant a trial.” The statement was signed by Bill Williams, chairman of the Honor Court; Dr. R. Kaylor, chairman of the Regulations Court; and Richard C. Burts Jr., dean of students.

The committee had considered the matter because of the provision concerning drugs as stated in the Code of Responsibility. The provision reads: “The medically unsupervised use, possession, or distribution of potentially harmful drugs such as hallucinogens, amphetamines, barbiturates, and opiates is illegal and subject to very harsh penalties. Further, the use of many of these drugs threatens the physical and mental health of the users, and the use by one person may also threaten the welfare of others. Therefore, the college will not tolerate the medically unsupervised use, possession, or distribution of any of these drugs.”

Fine Films To Project Cocteau

The early efforts of one of the great experimenters in filmmaking will fill the screen in Spencer Love Auditorium next Thursday at 8 p.m. The film is “Blood of a Poet,” which was written, directed, and narrated by Jean Cocteau. It is the fourth presentation of the Davidson College Fine Film Program. Cocteau, a novelist, sculptor, essayist, and philosopher, began making films in the 1930s. His best-known films are “Beauty and the Beast” (1946) and “Orpheus” (1949). In this frankly experimental film, Cocteau attempts to see how the film may be used as a medium for poetic thought. Upcoming attractions include “Citizen Kane,” “The Playboy of the Western World,” “The Silence,” and a group of short experimental films to be announced later.

(Continued From Page 1)

we all must realize, for next fall the lives of about 290 incoming freshmen will be affected by what we do or do not do now,” he said. The Senate's recommendation would give freshmen their own choice about participation in basic ROTC after a two-week trial period at the start of the freshman year. Burney said the Senate committee wants the trustees to consider the voluntary ROTC proposal this spring if possible, and said the committee is searching for information about how voluntary ROTC programs work in other schools. Burney also said the senators hope the ad hoc committee and the Senate committee can work together. Members of the Senate group are Stewart Rogers, Burney, Jody Turner, Lawrence Wilkinson, Harlan Day, and Mike Spann.

Elections (Continued From Page 1)

ley, 338 votes to 223. David Branch edged Bill Berry, 74 to 63, for the Class of ‘70 position on the Regulations Court, and Clint Streth beat Jeff Brantley, 17 to 16, for an RHC post representing Belk. The students elected this week and last week will be inaugurated during chapel period Monday in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Curfew (Continued From Page 1)

hour. According to Marshall Guill, chairman of the Judicial Board, they were simply waiting at the house for transportation. The Dean's Council is composed of Terry, Richard C. Burts, dean of students; Scott Woodmansee, chaplain; Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of the dormitories; C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union; and Samuel F. Boyte, assistant director of the College Union.

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY Watch Repairs Main Street DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors: JIM COOLEY, CHARLES McEWEN, ROBERT PYEATT, BOB REID, JOHN WILLIAMS Managing Editors: FRANKLIN ANDERSON, DAVID SWEATT Assistant Managing Editors: DICK ANDERSON, BIFF FINE Sports Editor: BOB DUNHAM Assistant Sports Editors: BILL BERRY, ROCKY CROSSWHITE News Editor: GEORGE ALLEN Copy Editor: JOHN PANCAKE Cartoonists: TERRY HIRST, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS Photography Editors: BILL OLSON, DAVID WEEMS Photographers: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE, PAT REARDON Assistant Business Manager: JACK WELLMAN Advertising Manager: TED HEEFNER Circulation Managers: HOWARD RAMAGLI, GREG SCOTT Contributors this week: Ed Shoaf, Harvey Jackson, Russ Merritt, Alex Gordon, Chris Sikes, Steve Cross, Robert Elliott, Cecil Burney, John McLean, Danny White, Norwood Poland, Paul Rowland, Bill Lineaweaver, John Rowe, Charlie Knighton, Allen Lewis, Steve Williams, Jule Young, and Joe Smith.

The Books That Aren't

Library is looking for $1,700 worth of missing books. All-Out Attempt Scheduled To Locate Missing Books

An “all-out attempt” to locate books missing from the college library will be launched next week by the Honor Court and the library staff. A list of the some 170 books missing from the library, as determined by last September's inventory, along with a cover letter from Honor Court Chairman Bill Williams, will be distributed in the dormitories and to students living off campus on Monday. “The library has offered to waive until Friday the $1 fine due for each book removed without charging from the library,” Williams’ letter says. “After that time, the matter will be turned over to the Investigating Committee, and situations involving any of these books that are found will be examined in the context of the Honor Code.” Every year the library faces the problem of missing books, Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director, said, but this year the problem has been more acute because fewer books have been returned. The library staff estimates that the missing books will cost about $1,700 to replace. “Obviously,” Williams’ letter says, “if a book were removed from the library, and the borrower simply forgot to check it out, this would not constitute an honor offense.”

The Davidsonian

“This Place Could Kill A Protestant’s Religion”

pointed out the “nebulous value” to Davidson’s church relationship. “It fosters the illusion that this place is a haven for future ministers.” “When you go back to your town, people think that this is a Utopia—all the old buddies do, anyway. As disadvantages, Whitfield said that the methods of electing trustees by presbyteries and the stipulations placed on the selection of the president of the college and for faculty tenure were limiting. The Presbyterian ministers elected to the Board of Trustees by the presbyteries “as a group have one viewpoint on a lot of issues,” Whitfield said. Whitfield pointed out the trustee bylaw that states that the president of the college must be a Presbyterian at the time of his election by the trustees. “We were able to get a good man (President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.) this time,” but Whitfield said that such a rule might limit the selection in the future. Whitfield also referred to the bylaw which states that all tenured professors must be Christians. “That a professor has to believe in the Lord God Almighty is kind of limiting,” Whitfield said. Whitfield added that many students are agnostics when they leave Davidson. “Personally, I don't think it's a bad thing—it’s a more enlightened viewpoint.” Cader Howard, a senior, said that Davidson and its church relationship were “all a little hypocritical.” In future years, “you know you're going to participate in a church,” but now “you'd like to believe and don’t—you feel a little"bit guilty." Howard said that he came to Davidson because of his own Presbyterian ties. He said that he was very active in his church during elementary and high school. At Davidson, Howard said that he was experiencing "a period we all go through when religion means very little—it’s a crutch, and the average student feels he doesn't need a crutch." Howard said he favored required Bible and religious courses. "Christian culture plays such a large role in our society, and one should be at least familiar with Christianity’s precepts and with church history." "Perhaps it would be better to veer away from minutiae in beginning Bible courses," he added, "and to encourage students to take courses that offer a more contemporary viewpoint."

George Cretekos, a senior and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church, said "my religion has been so instilled in me that I haven't really been concerned with the Presbyterian Church." Citing a specific example, Cretekos said he found it "a little ironic" that Davidson holds classes on Good Friday and that the college and Protestant churches in the town have so few services during Holy Week.

Senior Lewis Lavine represents another minority viewpoint. "I came from a completely Jewish background—a half of my elementary school and about a third of my high school were Jewish." At Davidson, "my religion became stronger because I went through an identity crisis," Lavine said. Looking at Davidson from a non-Christian viewpoint, Lavine said, "This place could kill a Protestant’s religion. I've seen guys who have been crushed when they were confronted with an intellectualized approach to the Bible, faith, and religion. They didn't want to believe and they didn’t want not to believe."

Noting the homogeneity that Davidson's church relationship seems to encourage, Lavine said, "Everybody here is so straight—they're a bunch of WASPs, and that’s great for me. It doesn't hurt me to see a bunch of Southern Presbyterians—I’ve never seen them before," Lavine said. "But on the other hand, they should see more Jews, Negroes, and Catholics."

Year’s 2nd Convention Elected On 3rd Attempt
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Managing Editor

After at least two different tries, the year’s second constitutional convention finally got elected Wednesday—and unanimously, at that. Exactly the right number ran for each office, and apparently no one voted "no." Two previous attempts to elect a convention failed because not enough students had filed.

The convention is to consider revisions in the SGA constitution, which along with revisions to be made in the Code of Responsibility, will rearrange the campus judicial system and make the Bill of Rights part of the Code of Responsibility. The first meeting of the convention is set for Monday night at 9:30 in the Green Room of the Union. Meetings are open.

Proposed revisions, which have been mailed out to the convention members, would establish three basic courts: an Honor Court, Regulations Court, and Court of Constitutional Review. Over the three courts would be a six-member student-faculty Court of Appeals. Cases appealed from the new Court of Appeals would go to the trustees.

The present judicial structure provides for a Regulations Court and an Honor Court, with a seven-member student Court of Appeals over them. Over the student Court of Appeals is the Faculty Executive Committee, from which appeals would go to the trustees. This seven-member student Court of Appeals would become the new Court of Constitutional Review. The new student-faculty Court of Appeals would consist of three students elected from the Court of Constitutional Review and three faculty elected from the Faculty Executive Committee.

Hungry d
(Continued From Page 1)

falo, Springfield songs. "If we find a song we like, we get together for a jam. If it sounds different, it doesn't matter," Kentner said. "We are not particularly interested in the arrangement of good stuff."

The most obvious faults in Natchez Trace's performance are confined to electrical problems which have supposedly been corrected since then. There was excessive and unwanted feedback between songs. The lead singer’s microphone was not at a satisfactorily audible level. Also, the strobe light sounded like a rusted coffee grinder, and it was distracting when turned on before the music started.

The performance of Natchez Trace on stage is not very smooth or refined. When the drummer was singing the lead in "Act Naturally," he was completely obscured by the three guitarists standing in front of him. Also, entering and leaving the stage was an awkward ordeal. "We're pretty rough right now, but we've got what it takes," Kentner said. "In a couple of years it could be a good thing."

VALENTINE CANDIES
95c to $6.95
Russell Stover Candies
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WINTER SALE
Continues At Rush Wilson, Ltd.
We Still Have A Large Selection Of
Suits
Sport Coats
Slacks
Sweaters
Shirts
Buffer Coats
At Big Reductions
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
* W. O. Puckett 105 College
* H. Edmunds White Lorimer Ln

Natchez Trace has never considered playing "candy rock" or "pimple rock," according to Kentner. "We would rather appeal to musicians who knew what we were doing was valid and decent." "We would prefer to be artistic musicians and poor rather than candy-rockers financially successful," Kentner stated.

After a week at the University of South Carolina, Natchez Trace will go to New York to record on the Decca label. The Hungry d, which was started by the Union two years ago, has brought a number of entertainers to the campus. Similar night clubs have been established at other schools, too.

"You wreck’em — We fix’em"
MOORESVILLE Body Shop
131 East Moore Ave.
Mooresville, N. C.
We recognize Davidson Students & Faculty
Telephone 664-3345

MAIL ORDERS ONLY!
National Attractions Presents
3 BROADWAY SHOWS AT OVENS AUDITORIUM
FEBRUARY 12-13 & 2 performances
JOE CUSANELLI
EVENINGS 8:00 pm
Ticket Prices $7.50, $6.50, $5.50, $4.50
FEB. 13 MATINEE 2:30 pm
Ticket Prices $6.00, $5.00, $4.00, $3.00

FEBRUARY 17 TO 22
STARRING JOSE FERRER
EVENINGS 8:00 pm
Ticket Prices $6.50, $5.50, $4.50, $3.50
FEB. 19 MATINEE 2:30 pm
Ticket Prices $6.00, $5.00, $4.00, $3.00

APRIL 14-19
STARRING ELAINE STRITCH
EVENINGS 8:00 pm
Ticket Prices $6.50, $5.50, $4.50, $3.50
APRIL 16 MATINEE 2:30 pm
Ticket Prices $6.00, $5.00, $4.00, $3.00
APRIL 19 MATINEE 2:30 pm
Ticket Prices $7.00, $6.00, $5.00, $4.00

OPENING NIGHTS ONLY.
Mail Orders, send self-addressed stamped envelope to Ovens Auditorium, 2700 E. Independence Blvd., Charlotte, N.C. 28205. Checks payable to National Attractions, Inc.