The Truth of the Matter

Besides the St. Joseph’s game and the St. John’s game which I watched with mixed emotions, we also played and won five games over the holidays. Although you probably read the scores, or possibly heard the play-by-play on the radio, or maybe even saw the games, there are a few stories behind the victories.

Saturday, after everyone left the campus and parking places could be found again, we practiced for our game with Richmond on Dec. 17. Having no studies or other distractions we were truly like “a professional team” as Lefty told us. Driving to the airport for our flight to Richmond, the athletic department station wagon, in which Lefty, ex-president Grier Martin, Mike Maloy, and trainer Tom Couch were riding, broke down on Interstate 85. A service station pickup truck stopped and drove the four to the airport. Having room for only two in the cab, Mike and Grier Martin rode up front while Lefty and Coach Couch huddled in the back. And who says Lefty doesn’t treat his players right?

We played Tuesday night in Richmond. For those of you who have never been inside the Richmond Arena, it looks exactly like a bus depot (which it was before they decided to play basketball there). A maze of yellow-white curtains hang from the ceiling and have no apparent purpose except to hide the cracked rafters. The wooden floor, which people roller-skate on during the week, sits directly on a concrete base. This makes it seem like you're jumping from an asphalt street. Other than these things and the cubby-hole they give you for a locker room, it’s pretty nice. Incidentally, we won by two points as the Spider’s Picot Frazer missed a shot at the buzzer.

The following Saturday night, it seemed like every loud-mouth South Carolinian in the state found their way into the Charlotte Coliseum for our game with the Gamecocks. They won the noise contest but we won the game and the fight. With less than a minute left in the tight game, Cook was jumped by the entire Gamecock bench in their corner. Led by Huckel and Kirley, the skins sprinted down the court faster than we ever had in practice. Special honors go to tough Tony Orsbon who stood off the South Carolina skins while I crawled away after having slipped on some ice and skidded into the melee on my back. Kirley was in his element and settled things quickly by choosing the biggest player he could find and backing him out into the middle of the court. The coaches finally got everyone separated with the aid of the police. The rest of the game was played out without further incident and after the game a writer told me it was the best fight he had seen in the Coliseum. It certainly wasn’t one of the best games.

After four days of vacation, we returned Christmas day for practice that evening. With Texas, Maryland, and Wichita State in the Charlotte Invitational Tournament, we were easily favored. Someone suggested dropping one of those three teams and adding Davidson’s skin team for a better final game. Anyway, Davidson blitzed the tourney with Maloy taking the MVP award easily. We returned to the campus on Sunday which was now exclusively occupied by janitors, stray dogs, and Burns Detective Agency rent-a-cops. If you think the campus is quiet when school is in session, you should visit during a vacation. Then again, maybe you shouldn’t.

Monday we flew to Detroit for our game New Year's Eve with the University of Michigan. While we changed airplanes in Cleveland, Jan Postma watched the scenery, which happened to be a girl in the shortest mini-skirt possible. Arriving in Detroit, we drove to Ann Arbor where Coach Couch got lost for a half hour. At least we saw most of the campus. The next night, Cook broke out of his three-game slump and scored 29 points in leading Davidson to a victory over Michigan in their new field house. This “house that Cazzie (Russell) built” is really nice. Each of the 15,000 seats in the place were soft auditorium-type chairs in the circular domed building. Even the bench chairs were comfortable.

New Year's Eve at 10 below is an experience, especially in a town you know nothing about. The students at Michigan were still on vacation so there wasn’t very much happening. Despite this, everyone found something to do. The coaches went to Detroit where I guess the action was. We all knew we were supposed to get up at 7:15 the next morning for our flight home but apparently the coaches forgot or something happened because we were not awakened until noon. We caught a direct flight at 5 p.m. after some courageous driving on the Interstate into Detroit and arrived in Charlotte that night.

As for the St. John’s, I prefer to forget nightmares. Too much has already been written and said about the last minute of the overtime so I won’t be redundant. Still, it’s really ironic that referee Otis Allmond had to be the one to call the “five seconds” on Moser. Allmond also called Fred Hetzel for tending a last-second West Virginia shot which looked like a pass in the 1963-64 season. It also cost Davidson a victory.

The St. Joseph’s zoo parade came to town Tuesday night and left intimidated by Maloy’s shot-blocking aerial show. When recruiting, the Hawk’s coach must have been confused about the difference between football and basketball — They had more muscle than can be found on certain college football teams. If a fight had started, the only ice I could have spent on would have been in the Coliseum parking lot.

Spiders Pick Tangerines

End Walker Gillette tallied 20 receptions. The game, played in Orlando, was marked by offensive talent, as the two teams combined for over 1,999 yards on offense. Ohio University in the Tangerine Bowl. The bowl game pitted for the first time the winners of the two conference titles. The match-up will continue for the next two years.

Spencer Asks Study Of Ticket Situation

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

A number of disgruntled students, angry over the ticket situation at Davidson basketball games, have set the athletic department and college administration to re-evaluating the present ticket set-up. The protests came both during the holidays and after the St. John’s game last weekend, and centered around tickets for all games in general, and St. John’s tickets in particular.

“I had to break a date because I couldn't get a date ticket,” one student said after the game. “Even if I had wanted to pay the seven dollars extra to get two other tickets together, I couldn't because of the sell-out. And no one wants to wave at his date from the other side of the court.”

Another student was more upset. “The biggest game of the year and there weren't even enough tickets to go around for students. It seems that there could be some special arrangement for students and their dates.”

Criticism has continued to mount during the past week in regard to the problem of tickets, or the lack of them. The controversy began just prior to the Christmas holidays when students attempted to get tickets for the St. John’s game on Jan. 4. Ticket office officials told the students that they could sign a list and pick up their tickets at the door. Several students protested to President Samuel R. Spencer and Spencer contacted the ticket office to attempt to provide the students with tickets. Due to his intervention, tickets were available when students returned to school. However, no announcement was made when the students returned (nor was there any announcement about the method of ticket pick-up prior to the holidays), and many students were unaware that they could pick up their tickets. As a result, several students were denied tickets and many others could not get tickets for their dates.

Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott has been in Los Angeles on a business trip and has been unavailable for comment, but the ticket office said that the present system provides 1,000 tickets from the 11,666 seat coliseum for students.students. Before each game, the athletic department estimates the number of date tickets to be requested. Due to the early sell-out of the St. John's game, the number was very low. The coliseum officials feel that if too many tickets are set aside for student dates, good seats are left vacant. Dr. Spencer said this week that he would try to relieve the situation. “Although as yet there is nothing definite set up,” he said, “we are planning to have a meeting of all those involved, including Dr. Scott, Coach Driesell, and other members of the athletic department.” “It is definitely a bad situation when some students can't support their own school’s team," he said.

By BOB DUNHAM
Sports Editor

The Mountaineers of West Virginia bring an 8-4 record and a great deal of hustle to the Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow night to provide the third straight home challenge for Davidson's Wildcats. A high-scoring club, Coach Bucky Waters’ squad employs a run-and-shoot offense which resembles Davidson's brand of play. And the four losses are deceptive. Two came at the hands of UCLA and Santa Clara, the two teams ranked number one and three in the country. The team’s roster reveals a lack of height which has hampered the team against big men, and Waters is worried about his team's ability to handle Davidson's Mike Maloy. The man who will probably get the assignment is Carey Bailey, the 6-5 senior who is shorter than Maloy but able to go to the top of the backboard. In practice, he is able to accomplish the feat from a standing jump, and he has a scar over his right eye as the result of hitting his head on the rim in a game. The Mountaineers present a balanced attack, with four men averaging in double figures. Senior Larry Bob Hummell, Davidson's nemesis in last year's game at Morgantown, leads the way, followed by junior Woods, senior Greg Ludwig, and Bailey.

Davidson's attack will center on Maloy and Jerry Kroll, who have combined for a 41.5 scoring average. Maloy had a field day Tuesday night against St. Joseph's, as he picked up 20 points, 15 rebounds, and an uncounted number of blocked shots. St. Joe coach John McKinney labeled him as one of the best his team has ever faced. Maloy was one of the few Wildcats who enjoyed a really successful night in the previous game against St. John's. His 31 points were a personal high for the year. The St. John’s game has been, and will be, a topic of discussion for some time. Referee Otis Allmond's five-second violation against Dave Moser caused much dissent and resulted in a film study. The study, which could have been affected by the film speed, revealed that Moser had thrown the ball in less than four seconds after Allmond handed him the ball. The violation set the stage for Bill Paultz’s winning corner shot with two seconds remaining, giving the Redmen a 75-74 edge.

Both teams shot well in the second half, but the first half made the difference. The final percentages showed Davidson with 49.1 percent and St. John's with a spectacular 61.7 percent. John’s shooting percentage showed what a great team Davidson really is. Tomorrow night's game against West Virginia is the third of four straight home games for Davidson. The team will meet Wake Forest in Charlotte next Wednesday before traveling to VMI on Saturday. Redmen star John Warren noted after the game that the team’s poor shooting against UCLA had helped them prepare for Davidson.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Closed All Day Wednesday
MAIN ST.
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

ADRIAN TOSSES IN HOOK SHOT
Southpaw freshman goes over USC's Riker.

KROLL SCRAMBLES AFTER LOOSE BALL
Hawks pile on as Maloy moves in to assist.

Bailey-Led Mountaineers To Meet ‘Cats Tomorrow

Snipes Tackles Football
The Davidson Athletic Department announced this week that sophomore Ricky Snipes has been offered and has accepted a football scholarship. Snipes, who just last month lost his basketball scholarship when he dropped off the squad, received the transfer scholarship after details of the switch were worked out. It was earlier rumored that Snipes planned to transfer from Davidson and play football at another school. As a senior in high school, Snipes received over 140 scholarship offers in football but decided to accept Davidson's basketball scholarship instead. The 6-7, 215-pound Snipes averaged 18.4 points per game last year on the freshman basketball team.

The Davidsonian
January 10, 1969
Page Five
(Staff Photos by Weems)

Wildkittens Assume Giant-Killer Role After Upset Of ACC Teams
By STEVE WILLIAMS
Sports Writer

The Davidson freshman basketball team ran its record to 5-0 Tuesday night with an 84-81 victory over the previously unbeaten South Carolina freshmen. The South Carolina team, ranked as one of the top freshman teams in the country, became victims of a well-balanced and determined Davidson squad. Success, thus far, has been the result of the combining of many skills for the Wildkittens. The team's scoring punch has centered around the shooting of Bryan Adrian (26.4 points per game) and Eric Minkin (16.2). Coach Terry Holland pointed out that Adrian “is doing a great job this year. He still hasn't recovered fully from an injury suffered at the beginning of the season. There's no telling what he could do at full power.” His game high is 30 points against both Furman and South Carolina. Six-eight center Eric Minkin compliments Adrian's outside scoring ability. When the defense tightens up on the outside shooting, Minkin takes over and scores from the inside. Minkin is leading the team with 12.8 rebounds per game and is doing an outstanding job on defense. Against the North Carolina State freshmen, Minkin humbled their highly touted center, Paul Coder. Against South Carolina, Minkin added 6-10 Tom Riker to his growing list of fallen giants. Riker, a first-team All-American in high school and one of the top freshman players in the country, is said by Charlotte Observer sports writer Allan Sloan to draw hushed tones from Atlantic Coast Conference coaches. Apparently, Minkin had never heard the name.

Doug Hill is the team's playmaker, averaging 9.4 points per game. Coach Holland said that “Hill should score more. He hasn't quite gotten into the groove yet with his shooting. He has been doing a lot of extra work on the problem and we expect him to come along as the season progresses.” Lester Strong (11.2), the quickest man on the team, “has been doing a great job on defense and takes up the rebounding slack.” Strong has been averaging 9.6 rebounds per game. Frank Clark rounds out the team's starters with a 10.5 scoring average. Clark also adds his talents with Minkin and Strong in clearing the boards for the frosh. When asked about depth, Holland admitted that it could be a problem if the team gets into foul trouble. He also noted that Gary Scibal has done a good job in relief, and he expects that Greg Sikes will do the same. Sikes was late getting out for practice because of football.

The Wildkittens have produced two big upsets this season against North Carolina State and South Carolina. About the State game, Holland said, “we produced a great team effort with lots of hustle. The boys took advantage of their strengths to overcome State's tremendous height advantage. They could have killed us with their height.” Concerning the South Carolina game, he said that “we had a good scoring punch and dominated the game from the beginning. Minkin did a great job on Riker.” South Carolina's only noteworthy spark came from Bryan Adrian's former high school teammate, Bob Carver, who scored 25 points. The Wildkittens will challenge the South Carolina freshmen again next Tuesday night in a single contest. Coach Holland, noting the scuffles that have marked both the varsity and freshman contests with USC, said, “if the team does not receive plenty of support from Davidson students, I might just have to take Steve Kirley along to keep score.”

WILDCAT FLIES HIGH
Clay Edwards outdoes St. Joe’s “hawk.”