~. “|. i) . an search ditigy - for facts « lei oes ‘ ‘ i that nod’ trovicee he pene 8 ‘anion | - “Rings a Th _— Pleatual. convenient, and np “answers which [wee Wor, oe eee . S.80-p.uy dich Domensies” Cag iTuite, Cohecun creates on the hotior. system. . , ‘ * " neaidzoen Olle . ~ ~ " , seeking. ‘ us Saturday, October 2507 - The subway system in Mos What we found ‘(and not> . oT cow. whi — hs found “tand ~ 00 G tic 1. am Areal Exitnow.. Chambers basement which ty eran what we “tack as a result a % ic o aes g ° which speed ala of its half nsider’ “pm. Avon W-Faata Chambers basement SP escalator” ann bi ‘et Its, identity "is that ‘Survey ye pan. Hater dd ~ 7 Morrison Room features immaculate” meorZ ion o s identity’”’) is that ‘ : ae ADE . . oe . vi ‘Football Sart Antonio. Tex > : Davidson “can function as a pm aoa ton vs. Trinity ae ule Steuons. randles. 4% Christian liberal arts school According to Gkures re an “ million passengers — danty. (Continued From Page 2) Church Relationship. and. having examined the procedures’ of the other commissions, I am absolutely convinced that there was a definite willingness “to go as far as necessary, to find and accept facts. no matter what these facts are.” Our commission gled. many hours with the basic questions, ‘‘What is the place of the church-related college in the American educational system, if one exists? and ‘Are Identity. ed chapels, vespers, etc.) is gone. We are at Present men caught between the past that is no longer and the future that is still before us. a I feel that before we can properly assume our role as a prophetic voice in that future. we must find out who we are and where We mings, Born enough. We are David. have been. This means that we must step back and look objectively at all that is Davidson. To paraphrase E. E. Cum- “We can never be church relatedness ‘and high est cabin me son College, for whom birth Professor Visits Russia; Notes Soviet Progress Economics professor Dr. E. F. Patterson returned from a trip to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe with strengthened admiration of the progress made under socialism in these countries. Cities are growing at a rapid rate, he said: There are many high rise apartments under construction. most of them of far better quality than those built in the post war period. In Bucharest a massive program of urban renewal is under way. Tenants are not forced to move out of their old dwellings until new housing is available. an improvement over procedures in the United States, Patterson said. Russian cities have clean air and streets. but there is some evidence of water pollution in the rivers, he said. ' “It is true that there are not as many sacks and candy wrappers. kleenex and so on and attributed this to the fact that the government has delivered an improved standard of living and provided employment, In Yugoslavia, the most Western oriented of the Eastern European countries Patterson heard frequent complaints about the inability of the leaders. They have not solved the problem of unemployment. he said. Over a million are unemployed, although 70% of these are Gypsies! MRA 105 forth POW AWAY compatible. Seem i, has become a supremely son connected note the a te welcome mystery, the my- eo guides said. Because there were some stery of growing: The my- f ee nena Nt The People members of the commission stery that happens only and Up Fe OMINg remained in to inter. “yo said “yes” at the first whenever we are faithful to because Several years ago meeting there was diver- ourselves. the people took the sit aims mit DIS very proud that Friday, October 3 raters Tortrary inh XVID Diya. en Tys TOW Diversity Nore article vlast T] In doing so ate pan idkon vs, Methodist been saan ufo oh: insane year). each member of cotence, IN Gong SO. ey: ny Freshman Football Richmond, Va. that wars, year). en ger of the, haps we can bring Ander Davidson vs Richmond. a commission has Decode erat of his period, of sus: p.W.- Nanny d Marvison Room Paple transportation and accomplish something.” The irony of Andersen's article, is that he feels that somehow Davidson's identity and the expression of that identity, can be separated. I feel they are both parts of the whole we call “Davidson’s identity,” Without the “essence” of Davidson's identity. her actions would be without direction and purpose and thus would be void of their full potential. Without the outward expression of its identity. Davidson faces stagnation from its own inaction. The Old Davidson (required by the North Carolina Board of Higher Education. Davidson's library runs a distant second to Duke University in number of bound volumes per full-time student. The figures, which have been compiled through January of this year, reveal that Davidson's total of 140 volumes per student fails to compare with Duke's total of 269, However. Davidson tops the remainder of the colleges in the state by an impressive margin with Salem College its closest competitor at 111. Monday, October 6 p.m. Tuesday, October 7 p.m. Soccer Film Festival “Death of a Cyclist” Davidson vs Pembroke p.m. Cross Country Morrison Room Soccer Field Davidson, UNC West. Carolina p.m. Film Festival Morrison Room “Death of a Cyclist” Wednesday, October 8 Cobos Film Morrison Room Shoot the Piano Player Thursday, October 8 p.m. Film Festival Morrison Room “Shoot the Piano Player” CHINESE NUCLEAR POWER Fuller Speaks At National come incre progress according to assistant professor of political science, Jon W. Fuller. Fuller He at the invitation of the Fein government of an international The meeting of statesmen. journalists. and professors held at Wilton Park in Sussex. England in early July. His subject was ‘Defense Policy: The Role of Science and Technology." British government holds 10 such two week conferences annually with an average of 30 delegates at each one. Delegates come from all parts of the world. Simultaneous translations of the proceedings are available in English. French and German. Fuller contends that European concern over the gap in technology between the United States and Europe is primarily stirred by the loss of power and prestige which this gap constitutes. Europeans at the present are forced to purchase computers from the United States, many of which are obsolete in technology. FULLER science and power when soi. The high cost of new weapons systems will make it necessary for governments to make early decisions as to whether to complete a given program, Fuller said. Fuller indicated that Washington was now thinking along the lines of research and development of prototypes without production unless necessary “Simply that you have demonstrated the capacity to produce a given weapon is in itself a source of power and influence.” he said. An attempt has been made to apply “the power of capacity” to negotiations with the Russians on stopping the deployment of ABM systems. Although opposed to ABM deployment. Fuller doubts that negotiations to halt its proliferation will succeed. that the con can be reached by the States, or Russia without the possibility of Chinese nuclear deployment to be said. “We have this point in time where an agreement not to deploy on either side was possible. said what the out crossed The Artist’ Series presentation of “Der Fliedermaus.” a German opera, will officially open Davidson College's Halloween night Homecoming this October 31 at 8 p.m. Staff Replacements Sought By RICK WHITENER Staff Writer President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced Tuesday that there will be several changes and additions to the Davidson College staff in the near future. One of the most important positions to be filled is that of Dean of the Faculty. The present dean, Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, has asked to be relieved of his duties in this area when a replacement can be found. This position will be filled next year. “Creation of a new development staff is a high priority item,’ Spencer said. Presently, Mr. Russell Strong, Director of Public Information, is serving as acting Director of Public Relations and Development. The Admissions Department will probably be bolstered within the coming year. A successor to Mr. Jim Hyden, assistant to Dean H. White, soon. Edmonds announced will be Another assistant may also be hired. The Office of the Dean of Students and the Department of Admissions and Financial Aid plan to co-operate more closely in the future, especially on financial aid matters. Both offices will add new personnel, and a computer programmer will also be hiredto supervise data processing for the College. A study of the personnel and other needs of the college by the Academy for Educational Development (AED) is now in progress. Their report should be ready by November 1. Among jobs being considered is the position of Assistant to the President.

Hazel Directs Marrieds In ‘Lame Duck’ Capacity

Phil Hazel, ex-President of the Married Students Council, continues to act as president of the organization because the married students have been unable to convene in large enough numbers to elect new officers. Hazel’s term was to have expired in the spring. New officers will be elected sometime in the fall, Hazel said.

The major problem for married students at Davidson is housing. “Other problems are finding baby-sitters and getting jobs for wives in the area,” Hazel said. Activities of the Council will mainly concern the wives of students, he said. “The guys will have their hands full going to school.”

No Teale Men

Patterson said, “The chances of a preemptive attack against the Chinese nuclear potential by the Soviets is decreasing. The Chinese, aware of the threat to their only source of technological power, are rapidly decentralizing their nuclear and missile strength. War between the Soviet Union and the Chinese is likely within the next ten years, however,” Fuller said. The relative weakness of the Chinese military makes it unlikely that the Chinese will initiate a large-scale conflict. The current tensions between the two powers are more likely to result in minor skirmishes and localized conflicts.

Halloween Homecoming Features Jazz, Opera

The Riviera will play at a combo party later on in the evening. In addition, there is a movie scheduled at 11 p.m., the title to be announced later. A Union Coffee House brightens the dim hours of the night, beginning at 2 a.m., and from three until dawn horror flicks will be shown, surely the most appropriate events of the night.

The Preservation Hall Jazz Band will perform from 3 to 7 p.m. on Saturday, following the Homecoming game with VMI. According to Bill Traxler of the Social Council, the Preservation Hall is a veteran group of New Orleans jazz musicians who are very popular right now on the college concert circuit. The Rotary Connection, a northern rock group, will follow at 8:15. At 10:15 another combo party featuring The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly will be launched. A movie will be shown at 11. A bonfire will brighten the wee hours from 2 to 4 a.m. Sunday morning. A breakfast will be served from 3:30 to 5:30. On October 11, there will be a combo party following the game with Richmond, but the name of the group has not been announced.

Jules and Jim Probes Existential Love Triangle

BY BILL DAVENPORT
Staff Writer

“Love is general, and is therefore an abomination!” concludes Jules, the director of Francois Truffaut's Jules and Jim. Monday night as the first of this year’s fine film presentations, Jules and Jim was shown. Although the movie was banned in 1961 by the Legion of Decency, most of the students who came to see it knew better than to expect an exotic skin flick, but at least expected some titillation. What they got instead was a hellish, existential view of life.

The story is set in pre-World War I Paris. Jules is Austrian, Jim is French; both are young writers who become intimate friends without any intimations of homosexuality. They pursue Catherine (Jeanne Moreau) from before the First World War until the late '30s. The story is not even a true ménage à trois. Catherine has many other lovers besides Jules and Jim, who for a while live in adjacent bedrooms and share the woman between them. “What a bitch” is the immediate reaction to Catherine’s treatment of Jules, who is rejected for other men. But does she dish out anything her feverish lover does not want? As with the young doctor of Somerset Maugham’s “Of Human Bondage,” the lover seems to live for no one but the object of his affection. Jules is a masochist, a fact not so subtly indicated by a symbolic flogging scene in which he is whipped by Catherine’s daughter. Jules craves contact, always emotional, be it love or hate. It matters little which. The power of the emotion thrills.

But to conclude that the film is about passion would be a mistake. Not only is the acting (Moreau’s crying scenes particularly) at times synthetic, but the lovers are basically unsoulful. Jim wins, Jules loses. Catherine writes Jim, he writes back; the game goes on mechanically. Here is where Jules and Jim fails: it denies its characters any chance to escape their roles. Only after Catherine kills Jim and herself by driving off a bridge is poor Jules, the victim of the story, allowed some decent human rebellion: he feels relieved. Jules and Catherine's supposed tragic romance is so intense that it is absurd. If love is a machine, then what can life be?

YMCA Canvass Seeks Subsidy

BY MIKE WHEELER
Staff Writer

Representatives of the Davidson Chapter of the YMCA plan to contact each member of the student body, faculty, and administration on October 8 in an effort to raise funds for this year’s programs. Hall counselors will collect from freshmen. A donation of at least $5.00 from each student and faculty member is the Y’s goal. The contributor will receive a Y card, which provides an introduction to YMCA’s everywhere. A detailed budget is now being prepared by the cabinet and will be made public at a later date. The funds collected this year will finance the Student Tutorial Educational Program (STEP) and local Cub and Boy Scout troops. The YMCA also sponsors the Great Issues Symposium and stimulus discussion groups. In previous years, the Davidson chapter has donated large grants to worthy causes. Two years ago, it contributed approximately $500 to the Chonju Medical Center in Korea directed by Dr. Paul Crane, who was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science degree by Davidson last Monday. $100 was earmarked for the 1967-68 fund drive for a minority scholarship.

Electronic Music: Bounded Only By Hearing, Ingenuity

BY PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

Beeps, bumps, drones, thumps, bmrmmnaimaim. Not just any sound you can name, but any sound you can hear can be synthesized electronically, according to Dr. Milton Babbitt. The Conn Professor of Music at Princeton University, Babbitt spoke at Hodson Hall last week as a Piedmont University Center visiting scholar.

Gone are the days when the instrument and the performer have to limit the composer’s work. Gone also are the days when synthetic sound production is beyond the reach of most composers. Once only a choice few had access to the Mark II Sound Synthesizer used cooperatively by Columbia and Princeton Universities. The rest of the electronic music makers had to use the tedious, slow, laborious methods required for such a venture at a studio. Now composers can use the digital computer not only to compose but to produce and record their work. Certain instructions can cause the computer to perform various combinations which can be recorded on magnetic tape and in turn played.

Using taped examples, Babbitt showed how electronic methods could imitate normal instruments or produce effects otherwise impossible. “We don’t know enough about the relationship between what we can specify and what we can hear,” Babbitt said before playing a taped twelve-note series which sounded like only five notes. For the future of electronic music, Babbitt said, “We’ve just begun and we’ve got a long way to go. We don’t even pretend to know what the goals are.”

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Phone 892-2113 Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics. Russell Stover Candies

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOOD
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

SHRUDE M. F. HOLDEN CO.
CHARLOTTE'S NO. 1 Boutique
200 Independence
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
— CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.