Page Four ~ May 9, 1969 The Davidsonian (Staff Photos by Lyle)

AND WITH A CLOUD OF DUST... Pika Bill Berry slides safely into second past Wilbur Davis of the Fijis.

Surprising Hurlers Pace Way, Turn In Stellar Performances
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

Davidson is known as that little college down in North Carolina somewhere that produces All American basketball players, Rhodes Scholars,
College Bowlers, and Secretaries of State, but what's this about baseball pitchers? Yes, Virginia, Davidson does have a baseball team—which
until recently could be found buried in the debris of the Southern Conference cellar.

This year, however, the Wildcats have actually been threatening to have some control in the conference race, and behind a
freshman-oriented pitching staff, of all things, they've been doing it. The trio of Marshall Case, Mike Frye, and Rick Pipan
have joined Wade Shepherd and Johnny Riggs from last year’s team to give Davidson possibly the most effective mound staff
that the Wildcats have had in years. Already the Wildcats have won more games than in the past two seasons
combined, accumulating an 8-16 record, including four conference wins. The eight wins leave head coach Tom Stevens just one victory
short of becoming the first Davidson baseball coach to win 100 games.

The baseballers close their season tomorrow when they host The Citadel, the southern division leader in the conference and victor
over the Wildcats in both ends of a doubleheader several weeks ago. A win by Davidson would jeopardize the Bulldogs’
title hopes as well as give Stevens his 100th win. Davidson has already left the northern division title race in
a mess due to the Wildcats' 3-2 win over William and Mary last weekend. John Calhoun, a freshman starting in
his first game of the season, hit two singles in four trips to the plate while driving in the winning
run to knock the Indians into a tie for their division lead.

THE FABULOUS FIVE
Hurlers Frye, Shepherd, Riggs, Case, and Pipan pose before Clemson game.

Linksters Toppled In Title Defense

The Davidson golf team saw their three-year domination of the Southern Conference championship taken over by East Carolina at the
conference tournament held at Pinehurst Country Club Tuesday and Wednesday. East Carolina snagged the top spot with a 764 total
followed by Furman at 771 and Davidson and the Citadel, both at 785. George Washington, William and Mary, and Richmond
followed in that order. VMI did not compete due to final examinations.

Davidson was paced by Mike Spann at 148 and Doug Clark with a 150, good for fourth and fifth places
overall. Davidson coach Tom Scott termed the event “a fine tournament on a tough, tradition-steeped course. Pinehurst is one of
the nation’s top courses.” Lack of depth and an injury to fourth man Danny White doomed the ‘Cats’ title hopes.
White hurt his back in the first round and took an opening day 89 to prevent him from playing for
score.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
JOHN FINE

Assistant Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
MARK HODGES

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
BILL LINEAWEAVER

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
DON PARMAN
A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Asst. Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Advertising Manager:
JIM ROY

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Alex Gordon, Chris Bickley, Tom Sinks, Tom Dasher, Jule Young, Bill Sherwood, Steve Roady, Phil Riner, Joe Smith, Dan Graham,
Norwood Poland, and Ron Crockett.

“We didn't have the depth we had last year,” Scott said. “The top men did well but the lower half
of the team wasn’t as strong as last year's, and that made the difference. East Carolina had the same team
this year but won because their balance was better than ours. The Pirates and Furman didn't have one of their
seven scores higher than 82 but we had three over 84."

Scott was optimistic over next season's chances. "East Carolina will graduate a lot of their team. We'll lose Spann and
K. D. Weeks, but we have some good freshmen on the way." Spann may still get an invitation to attend
the NCAA tournament if the competitors are chosen individually instead of by championship team, according to Scott.

FOR SATURDAY SUPPER

Softball Scrambled By Slow Pitch Rule
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

IMAC softball in a topsy-turvy world. That fact, which the Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs learned in weeks past, was
discovered this week by the Sigma Chis and Pikas. Both teams lost after winning “must” games. The Machis won their
“must” game against the Kappa Sigs Monday, 10-9, with two unearned runs in the bottom of the seventh. Outstanding players
for the Machis were Herb Clegg, who had three hits, and Ron Stelzer, who played an outstanding game in the
field. The Machis were then upset for their first loss on Tuesday by the Pikas in a 16-0 debacle. It
was simply a case of the Pikas getting all the breaks and the Machis getting none. Every Pika had at
least one hit, one run scored, and one run batted in. Tom Poston and George Graff had four hits apiece.
In the field they scored three double plays. John Mize limited the Machis to six hits.

The Pikas also beat the Sigma Nus on Monday and were riding a four-game win streak when they were beaten
by the Phi Gamms on Wednesday, 14-12. The Pikas were hurt by numerous errors as the Gamms scored nine runs
in the fifth inning. Two three-run homers by the Pikas were to no avail. In the Pika victory over the
Sigma Nus, the Pikas scored five runs in the bottom of the sixth to win, 8-3. Tom Poston, Joe Lansinger,
and Jack Ballenger all homered for the Pikas. Also on Monday, the Betas beat the Phi Gamms, 14-12, with some
good fielding as the ROTC cadets looked on. In other Monday games, the Sig Eps plastered the Pi Kapps, 18-0,
and the Phi Delts whipped the Indies, 17-8. In the Sig Ep victory, the Pi Kapps were hampered slightly by
having only five men present, and only one of them was a regular player.

Mary Baldwin Netters To Challenge Fogleman
By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

Tennis coach Harry Fogleman, not waiting for the report of the coeducation committee, has planned his own coed weekend with
the Mary Baldwin tennis team. Dr. Mary Donnalley, Mary Baldwin athletic director and tennis coach, will bring eight members of
the Mary Baldwin team for two days of tennis exhibitions against the Wildcats May 16 and 17. Fogleman called the
Mary Baldwin tennis program “as good a girls’ program as there is in the country. They have several girls who
are highly ranked, not only highly ranked but good looking.” The exhibition has been in the planning stages for several
years but “just never got off the ground,” according to Fogleman. “It’s just a social weekend of tennis.”Netters are in
Charleston, S.C., this weekend for a less social occasion, the Southern Conference tournament. Davidson is given virtually no chance to
retain the conference crown they have held for the last four seasons. The Citadel and Furman are the early picks
for new champions.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

Pick up a box or a bucket this weekend
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken.
503 S. Broad Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505

Woody Faulk at first court singles is given the best chance for the ‘Cats, according to Fogleman. “Woody’s been playing
very well lately. With any kind of luck in the draw he could stand a good chance.” Faulk will have
to get past the Citadel's Tee Hooper, who won the first singles two years ago. Randy Jones, who played in
the conference golf tournament Tuesday and Wednesday, will be at third court singles. He will be the first Davidson athlete
to compete in two conference championships in the same season.

... discover the “quick-as-a-wink” economy to be experienced at the Vend-A-Wash
S. MAIN - DAVIDSON

... here it is! The do-it-yourself, do-it-right answer to cleaner car fans. And simple as sprinkling a pot plant. Sparkling
pressurized water and detergent does the job ... and you direct the whole operation with a magic wand. No splash
or splatter! Controlled, concentrated spray lets you cut away that grease and grime in only minutes. And there's a handy
lint-free towel dispenser ... and a heavy-duty vacuum for those final touches. Fast, economical, thorough!

COIN-OPERATED SELF SERVICE CAR WASH
Minutes 25c

For only three of those regulars, Craig Garner homered for the SPE’s. The Delts beat the Indies despite a seven-run
Independent rally in the last inning and “Aristotle” Anderson's two runs batted in. In a very important Tuesday game, the
Phi Delts edged the Sig Eps, 8-3. The victory was largely a matter of the Delts being able to put
their hits together, while the SPE’s left numerous runners stranded. The game was close until the last inning, when the
Delts scored four runs. On Wednesday, the KA’s demolished the Betas 23-2. John Chalk had two doubles and a triple
and Romey Fisher hit two home runs.

There was a rash of forfeits in this week’s games. The Pi Kapps forfeited two games, to the Sigma Nus
and SAE’s. The other forfeits were the Kappa Sigs to the ATO’s and the SAE’s to the Kappa Sigs. In
one of the most important games so far this season, the Delts took over first place with a hard-fought 8-4
over the Machis on Thursday. Dave Fearnbach paced the Delts by hitting two home runs, one with the bases loaded.
The win left the Delts a half game ahead of the ATO’s and a full game ahead of the faltering
Sigma Chis. In other action yesterday, the Sig Eps continued their bid for the title as they defeated the Betas,
18-6, despite the absence of several regulars. The KA’s won again, handing the pre-season favorite Kappa Sigs an 18-9 loss.
The Sigma Nus edged the Indies 14-13, while the Pikas beat the Betas 18-6.

The championship could possibly be decided next week when the Delts meet the ATO’s on Monday. However, the Taus still
have to play the Machis next Thursday. The overall league balance has been the best of any sport this year.
There has always been the possibility of an upset. The reason for this phenomenon is the switch to slow-pitch softball.
No longer can a pitcher dominate the action and carry his team virtually alone. The game is now more interesting
because of the possibility of upsets, and it seems that the switch to slow-pitch has been a good one.

“WE’VE GOT IT...”
Fiji Jeff Brantley stretches high for a Pika pop-up.

Thinelads Seek To Avoid Cellar
By ALEX GORDON
Sports Writer

“William and Mary is definitely favored,” commented coach Heath Whittle as he prepared his Wildcat cindermen for the Southern Conference
Track Meet, which begins this afternoon at Fort Eustis. Whittle noted that last year William and Mary scored over 60
points more than its closest competitor, and most of the members of that squad are back. He feels that they
have the “top men in practically all of the events.”

Even though the Wildcats as a team have no chance for a high finish in the meet, there is the
possibility of some strong individual performances. Twelve Wildcats are making the trip, as distance star Stagg Newman, still bothered by
a foot injury, will not be going. Rick Lyon and Tommy Richardson are entered in the 100-yard dash. Lyon is
looking to improve on his third-place finish of last year. Lyon and Richardson will also run in the 220-yard dash.
Lyon is presently the Southern Conference champion in this event. Whit Morrow and Ken Gill are entered in the 440-yard
dash. James Puckett is Davidson's lone entry in the 800-yard run, as is Jim Trussell in the 440-yard intermediate hurdles.

Davidson will be represented in the long jump by Tom Rogers, Keith Everett, and Greg Cox. Rogers and Everett will
also compete in the triple jump along with Ray Swetenburg. Brian Smith, Swetenburg, and Hill are scheduled to be in
the high jump. Steve Kirley is entered in both the shot put and the discus. Richardson, Morrow, Cox, and Lyon
will run in the 440-yard relay. Morrow and Lyon will also participate in the mile relay with Hill and Puckett.

Whittle pointed out a few of the outstanding individuals from other schools entered in the meet. Howell Michael and Jeris
Luzins, distance runners from William and Mary, are especially strong performers. Michael has a chance of breaking four minutes in
the mile, and Luzins has run the 880 in a time of 1:50. Furman’s Kim Piersol is one of the
best triple jumpers in the country. He recently won that event at the Penn Relays.

COLLEGE STUDENTS SUMMER WORK
Our better students last year averaged over $170 weekly. This year’s opportunity is even greater.

SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS
Participate in competition for individual scholarship awards from $200 to $3,000.

REQUIREMENTS
Over 18, neat appearance, cooperative attitude, above average intelligence, willingness to follow instructions. If you meet these qualifications, APPLY NOW.
Qualified students will be given the opportunity to develop management skills in sales and sales training, office procedures, and personnel
control.

THE RICHARDS’ CO. WILL RESERVE A POSITION FOR YOU IN EITHER OUR RALEIGH OR CHARLOTTE OFFICE.
CALL 9 A.M. - 2 P.M.
704-376-1501 (CHARLOTTE)
919-834-3080 (RALEIGH)

$125 WEEKLY SALARY
