The Davidsonian

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON, Editors-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. Address correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 23, 1969

About Those Waterfights

One member of the administration is reported to have said recently concerning freshman dormitories, "I just don’t understand why the waterfights continue. They (the students) wouldn’t do this in their homes." Obviously, students don’t do it in their own homes. But the reason is simple. The dormitories look no more like homes than the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer lion resembles Calvin Coolidge.

In one freshman dorm:
—The windows haven't been washed since the start of the year. They add a grey pallor to whatever is seen through them.
—The halls are grey and yellow, long and bare. From the ceiling three bare lightbulbs glare down. The remnant of light that does pass through the hall windows is reflected only weakly on the dirty linoleum. The arrangement may be appropriate to a prison or a monastery, but not an institution of higher education.
—Stairwells stink (yes, stink) during the winter. The bare concrete absorbs and holds the air’s moisture, and one wonders as he descends stairs if he is about to enter some medieval dungeon around the next corner.
—Shower stalls have a thick yellow-brown film on the wall, covering the white tile. It can’t be washed off, but with a bit of effort, you can scratch some away with a fingernail.
—Closet doors can’t be locked, but the chicken-mesh wire above them does an admirable job of keeping out foxes. (There hasn't been one reported in the dorm closets since it was installed.)
—Finally, there is this item. Though it is not particularly bothersome, it is symbolic. The curtains in the freshman dorms have on them plantation scenes, complete with slaves out chopping cotton.

The catalog could continue. It’s amazing no one has applied for urban renewal yet (overlooking Davidson’s lack of urbanity) or called a rent strike. This is the environment in which Davidson students spend their first year, an environment which is supposedly furthering education, since that reason is, after all, the college’s only justification for requiring residence in the dormitories. If the college is trying to train the nation’s future plantation owners, prison wardens, and monks, perhaps the dormitories are appropriate. Otherwise, the time is long overdue for a thorough remodeling, and we wish to remind the college of this need as it embarks on a summer of work in the residence halls.

Poverty-Level Pay

While students are hammering away at "administration and faculty hypocrisy," it might be well for them to stop a minute and examine themselves, particularly in the area of fraternity cooks’ wages. Over the course of a year, beginning with two DAVIDSONIAN articles last spring, it has become evident that cooks are underpaid. The figures are tangled, and the situation varies from house to house, but the unfortunate truth is now known for certain. Fraternity treasurers have in some cases forgotten to fill out proper Internal Revenue Service forms, or pay IRS taxes. Some cooks receive no sick pay, and many are off during the summer without pay because fraternities don’t pay unemployment insurance. But the central point is that the wages themselves are too low. Love and affection from a fraternity don’t feed hungry children at the cook’s homes, and the dance weekend hours are not the best in the world. To say it bluntly, wages are below poverty level.

The Student Life Committee’s suggestion that the college supervise cooks’ pay and taxes was a good idea, but it would be better if students could keep the initiative. Perhaps it would be possible for the IFC to set minimum wages and other basic requirements on payment of cooks. At least if they don’t, the student Senate certainly could. But no matter who does it, wages need to be raised, and minimum scales set for cooks’ pay.

Letter Dispute Goes On

To the Editor:
I find it annoying to be told that if I do not share Mr. Tucker's precise perspective I have either failed to understand or listen to (presumably) the Truth (Letter, May 16 DAVIDSONIAN). He missed my point and sprang to the defense of a cause I didn't attack. Who said the black position was not unique? It is unique to itself, but not within the human framework. Why tell me again that white America has historically abused its black segment? The point is that I, a white person, have not willingly abused a black person because of his race. I am not "white America," past or present. I am me. If not accepted as individual me, then I am a created enemy; since I am not of myself inimical.

Did I say the Negro was shadow-boxing at illusory enemies only? No. I merely stated my view that the illusion that there is a hostile white animal is pointless and dangerous. Bitterness against an abstract body (Whitey) blinds to the individual (concerned white human). There is no empathy deep enough to apprehend the pain an American Negro suffers due to real human or institutional enemies. The only bitterness worth sharing is that of being alive as we are, understanding so little. Can we never eschew mutual whining, circular colors and accents and guilts? We are all each other's enemies exactly as we are our own.

I never denied the real problem of racism. Rather, I affirmed the real problem of black men letting bitterness cause to be "constructed at infinite cost to themselves Maginot Lines against this enemy they thought they saw across the frontier, this enemy who never attacked that way... if he ever attacked at all; if he was indeed the enemy." (John Knowles, "A Separate Peace").

Mrs. Linda B. Wallace
Davidson

LETTERS

Alumnus Criticizes ROTC, Calls For End To Program

To the Editor:
With compulsory ROTC now dropped to the wayside at Davidson it would seem appropriate to consider whether the entire ROTC program as it now exists on a nationwide scale should be completely revised and overhauled. This is not just a Davidson problem but also a problem for the Department of the Army and the nation as a whole. Recognizing both that the ROTC program is the Army's largest source of officers and that there is a definite need for the college-graduate-junior officers within the Armed Forces since there is a greater tendency for these to represent non-professional viewpoints, I would suggest the following program: simply do away with ROTC as it now stands, substituting an expanded summer camp program (perhaps two or more summers) and demanding as requirements for the commission the receipt of the undergraduate degree and satisfactory performance at summer camp. There are several reasons for this proposed change:

Latimer Praises Spirit Of Change

The following was submitted as an open letter to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

To the Editor:
After four years as a student at Davidson, I feel a tremendous attachment to the college and have a real interest and concern for its future welfare and development. Accordingly, I should like to share with you some of the reflections which have crossed my mind during the past few weeks in the hope that these thoughts may prove helpful to you.

The first thing that comes to mind in these days prior to commencement is appreciation, and I wish to thank those many members of the faculty and administration who have worked hard to teach, and understand us in and out of the classroom by precept and example. In this I think I speak for the entire class. Nevertheless, the main purpose of this letter is not to award kudos, but rather to point out by constructive criticisms areas in which Davidson is seriously deficient and in need of substantial change and improvement.

The first area, the social sphere, is large and includes many problems. I shall not beat the old fraternity horse again, for it is already an overplayed issue. A second problem is the lack of female companionship. Despite the recent and apparent disinterest in co-ed week, I think most students sincerely favor some form of co-education on our campus, and I shall await with interest the report of your commission dealing with this subject. These issues, however, pale into relative insignificance when compared to the dormitory situation. To begin with, we are forced to live in drab boxes which are not conducive to any sort of social life and were designed with all the imagination of a stable. The sterility of their architecture is appalling (except for Duke, whose architect must have had an overactive imagination). For most people a dorm is merely a dirty, noisy, overcrowded, ill-equipped slum where one sleeps. Two toilets for twenty-five persons; no recreational lounges; no cooking facilities; dark, slippery, worn stairwells; lack of telephones; undependable heating; antiquated furniture; uncomfortable beds; rats; and inadequate lighting do not present a very attractive picture to a prospective student (nor a pleasant environment to the residents). And the catalog could go on. Putting a lounge on each floor will not solve the problem—which should take precedence over the construction of a new library.

A second area of consideration concerns athletics. Although I am not particularly skilled in athletics, I enjoy watching our basketball games as much as the next guy. What is at issue is instituting a real physical education program designed to allow for full participation for the proficient athlete and for instruction to those of us who are not so endowed. In keeping with this need, the football program should be desubsidized and Davidson's whole philosophy of subsidized athletics, as well as participation in intercollegiate sports, should be reexamined (as your commission is doing). This is not a proposal that all subsidization of athletics be abolished. Rather, it is an attempt to restore perspective and equilibrium to our judgment. It is the recognition that the qualified athlete has no monopoly on contributing to the college. The whole question of subsidized athletics is, however, only symptomatic of a far vaster problem. It is the tip of the iceberg labeled "admissions policies."This is so because the selection of students will determine invariably the complexion of the school. For this reason, the admissions office must concentrate more on choosing students whose qualifications are in consonance with the avowed aims of Davidson as a liberal arts college. Furthermore, Davidson should move to a policy which will base financial aid on need. Even more important than restoring sanity to our athletic policy is the need for active recruitment of black students and minority groups of all types. If Davidson wishes to reflect and to prepare the student for the increasingly complex and pluralistic society of which he is a part, it must make a concerted effort in this direction. However, we should not recruit these people unless we seriously want them and are willing to make certain sacrifices so as to make their stay at Davidson rewarding. This is not to suggest that we lower our academic standards. It is suggesting, though, that we admit, for example, blacks in sufficient numbers so that the individual black can cease being a curiosity and start being a student. In the administrative realm, the professing Christian rule of faculty tenure policy should be abolished (but not only because of the exigencies of the academic marketplace but as an attempt to eliminate hypocrisy and provide for a free and open exchange of views among persons of differing beliefs). Personal belief, I feel, is strengthened by confrontation. After all, a man does not have to be a Christian to be kind, compassionate, and sensitive. The last area I wish to examine really concerns a question of values and principles. It is the moral aspect of the college education. Davidson has abdicated, quite justly I think, its role of in loco parentis while simultaneously attempting to upgrade the academic program to true excellence. This is highly commendable and I do not see how anyone could quibble with this policy. Yet it strikes me that academics should not be the only emphasis of a college education. This was especially impressed on me earlier this year when someone in chapel mentioned the “Christian democratic ideals” that Davidson supposedly fosters. His statement was received with hoots, sneers, and gales of derisive laughter. I thought at that moment how far away we seemed to have drifted from certain very basic ideals of the college. Perhaps what I really wish is an atmosphere or attitude in which social consciousness and social responsibility are encouraged and in which good men as well as good students can develop. Davidson should educate its men to humane instincts as well as learning, to service and compassion as well as to finding their places in the corporate infrastructure of a materialistic society. In conclusion, I want to thank you for keeping the channels of communication open between yourself and the students, and for not fearing new and innovative approaches to the complex problems which face Davidson.

Berkley Latimer ‘69
Davidson College

GRADUATION PLANNING CENTER

“WELL, IF ALL ELSE FAILS, WE CAN HAVE IT AT THE NEW LIBRARY SITE.”

(1) There is no good reason why academic credit should be given for ROTC courses or why military instructors should have professorial standing—even West Point cadets do not receive academic credit for hours spent at drill, and most of their military training is done during the summer.

(2) The classroom hours, at least at Davidson, are pretty much a waste of time which anyone who has been to summer camp knows—everything taught in four years at Davidson in ROTC could be learned in two summers at Ft. Benning or Ft. Bragg, if the summer camp program were so designed.

(3) If academic credit is seen as an inducement for enrolling, it is submitted that pay increases could have the same effect. Such changes in ROTC would deny to no one the opportunity of participating in an officer candidate program, and in fact, if all the branches of the Armed Forces were to make such improvements, the student at Davidson, who is now limited to Army ROTC, would have the opportunity of participating in Air Force or Navy ROTC.

If the loss from the curriculum of such courses as Military History is feared, the College can very easily offer a course in the Theory of War. If the ROTC program is going to be an issue of conflict on campus between administration and students, e.g., Harvard, why should administrators hold ground on a program which is not worth keeping anyway?

Mason W. Stephenson ‘38
Chicago, Illinois

A Note Of Thanks

To the Editor:

As this school year at Davidson comes to an end, the internationals want to raise their voices for the first and the last time in this paper. Looking back on almost nine months of “studying” we all think that we learned a lot, i.e., how to get a date provided by the computer, where we can meet Hattie, and where we can find all these wise books we had to study. But, honestly, we really got to know American people and “the American way of life." Several “foreigners” toured the country and have seen the real face of the United States with her good and not so good parts. We truly thank Davidson College for providing such a great scholarship for international students, and we hope that Davidson will continue this program in order to help international understanding in the small world of today. Especially we want to express our gratitude to our Foreign Student Advisor Dr. Max Polley and his secretary Mrs. B. D. Thompson for all their advice and help during the school year.

Pierre Barbeyrac (France), Carlos Banda (Ecuador), Helmut Freudenthal (Germany), Masafumi Ito (Japan), Michael Lunn (England), Jorma Norkela (Finland), Ralf Schaefer (Germany), Iquabel Sultan (Pakistan), and Krishna Tewari (India).

Salary Report Erred

Editor:

I wish to correct as soon as possible an unfortunate error in the May 16th article on the recent meeting of fraternity cooks. The article, after listing several of the cooks’ complaints, states: “The cooks did not mention anything concerning the adequacy or inadequacy of their salaries.” As anyone who was at the May 8th meeting can tell you, cooks did talk about their salaries and the consensus was that they were far from satisfactory. Several of the ladies present mentioned a feeling of close personal attachment to their particular fraternities as one reason why they continue to work there; but agreed that, in the words of one, “you can’t live on love." They made it clear that inflation is making it increasingly difficult to make ends meet. Under the circumstances, those fraternities that have not lost their cooks’ goodwill should consider themselves lucky. I regret that this misunderstanding occurred, and, as the person who was interviewed for the article, I must accept most of the blame. I only hope that this crucial bit of misinformation did not mislead fraternity men into thinking that they could continue to be complacent about the issue of their employees’ salaries.

Randy Phillips ‘69
Davidson College

ROBERT PYEATT

On Violence And The Man

Much of the violent heritage of the people of the United States has been preserved and passed on to us today in the forms of aggressive militarism and capital punishment. We relive the birth pangs of the nation and its growth in the slaying of our foes, both the foreigners to whose homelands we journey to prevent the spread of alien ideology, and local criminals, whom we execute as seeming also un-American. The urge to go off on freebooting military ventures is born somewhere in the depths of the collective psyche seeking virility symbols. The compulsively inadequate self which seeks proof of its adequacy is tellingly portrayed in Norman Mailer’s surrealistic “Why We Are In Vietnam.” Mailer might call it the LBJ complex. Capital punishment has its roots in a more distant pseudo-religious yen for vengeance, the feeling that there are certain requirements of retribution that must be maintained for the structure of society and the security of the individual. But the death penalty also thrives on the feeling of power of being able to take a human life in a socially accepted way, even with a veneer of righteousness. There is also a strangely regional and ethnic character to the application of the death penalty, as perhaps there is to violence in America in general. But the history of the death penalty shows that its application has been far from impartial. Between 1930 and 1962, 3,812 persons were executed in America, according to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. Of these, 2,049 were Negroes. Georgia led the nation in executions with 362. North Carolina had 263, South Carolina 162, Virginia 92, Florida 167, Kentucky 103, Tennessee 93, Alabama 133, Mississippi 151, Louisiana 133, Arkansas 117, and Texas 288. All of these states executed more Negroes than whites. Most were executed for murder. However, in the whole United States 45 whites and 399 Negroes were killed for rape. Of these, 42 whites and 382 Negroes were executed in the South. In this period Georgia liquidated 58 blacks and 3 whites for rape, Virginia 21 blacks and no whites, North Carolina 41 blacks and 4 whites, South Carolina 37 blacks and 5 whites, Florida 35 blacks and 1 white, Tennessee 22 blacks and 5 whites, Alabama 20 blacks and 2 whites, Mississippi 21 blacks and no whites, Arkansas 17 blacks and one white, Louisiana 17 blacks and no whites, and Texas 66 blacks and 13 whites. There is little point in going into the much-discussed fears of sexual inadequacy of the Southern white, except to say that these figures seem to support theories of such fears. The racist application of capital punishment has not yet disappeared and may grow stronger under the impetus of the law and order of the Wallaces, Maddoxes, et al. The medieval practice of capital punishment has persisted into an age of scientific, medical, and psychological knowledge that shows how grotesque this practice really is. It is time for the abolition of the death penalty.