DEADLINE TODAY

Deadline for signing up for Monday's DAVIDSONIAN banquet is noon today. The banquet, which begins at 6:30 p.m. in Wildcat
A and B of the Union, is open to all students who contributed to the newspaper. Charlotte Observer Cartoonist Eugene
Payne will speak.

"Today's Americans should not have to live in pigsties," said the landlord.

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1969

"Public housing has simply become another problem."

Problems Of Race, Poverty Are Inseparable--Weltner

A Georgia Democrat who spearheaded Congressional investigations of the Ku Klux Klan and refused to run on the same ticket
with Lester Maddox said here Tuesday that it is impossible to separate the problems of race and poverty.

"I paint quite a grim picture of our domestic situation because I feel the circumstances are grim," said Charles L.
Weltner of Atlanta.

"In spite of the many acts which have become law, we have failed to effect significant changes in these areas,"
Weltner, an urbane, well-dressed lawyer with degrees from Columbia University and Oglethorpe College, gave as an example the Head Start
program, a federally financed project aimed at giving preschool training to underprivileged children. Even such well-planned programs like these have
little effect when malnutrition may be undermining their positive results, he said.

"We must realize that institutions have to change themselves for people instead of the converse," Weltner said. He said that
he felt white, affluent middle-class Americans too often tried to gear their social assistance around attempts to make minor groups
adopt the middle-class culture of white America.

"We must bring government back to the people, but this means diffusing the power beyond city hall, not just bringing
it from Washington bureaucracy to the statehouse bureaucracy," said Weltner.

Student

"Some of us like to admit that the tactic of student takeover has been successful, but it has," said John
W. Lederle, president of the University of Massachusetts yesterday.

Meanwhile, students at Harvard voted Monday to extend their strike three more days while they waited for a reply to
eight demands of the SDS.

REPORT

This week THE DAVIDSONIAN presents the second and final article in its Report series on Black Education. This Report focuses
on the Black Revolution and how it affects the blacks at Davidson. In a provocative taped interview, four of Davidson’s
blacks relate amusing anecdotes about their life here, some serious thoughts on Davidson’s role as an institution committed to Christian
ideals, and some advice and a warning to complacent whites. The feature appears on page three this week.

Weltner, the former Congressman, outlined what he saw as the necessary action in poverty wars. He recommended the formation of
neighborhood associations and corporations which would be staffed by local individuals and be on a sub-city hall level. The associations,
according to Weltner, could be financed by turning over city funds to the residents of the particular area. As a
result, the expense of the program would not involve an appreciable increase over amounts already designated for such slum areas.

Weltner said that such a program is in keeping with the American ideal of local initiative and local responsibility and
that through such a program community pride and interest in achievement could be markedly aided.

"We've got to find new ways for meeting the problems of race and poverty."

"I feel that America has tremendous untapped leadership potential, even in usually underprivileged areas," said Weltner. He observed that neighborhood
associations might be especially effective in establishing more universal compliance with housing codes. Although he said that he feared the
possibility that such associations might cause divisions in certain inner cities, he indicated that he felt this would happen anyway
if measures are not taken to eliminate the longstanding urban distress.

"What's required now is more concern, more sensitivity—not a whole lot more money," said Weltner. "But we must also remember
that, after all, you can't very well pay for people when protecting rocket sites in North Dakota."

HEA

PC Calls For A COED WEEK SNAGS ON RECALCITRANT DORM (See Page Six)

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

End To Compulsory ROTC

Asian Program Being Organized

Davidson College will begin its Non-Western Studies Program next fall with the employment of an Asian expert to set up
and guide the program and a faculty exchange with Lahore University in Pakistan. The founding of this Non-Western Studies program
is a response to recommendations by the Black Study Report on curriculum revision.

The Asian expert in charge of the new program will be Frederick H. Gaige. Gaige is presently completing his doctoral
requirements with the University of Pennsylvania through the Institute of International Studies of the University of California at Berkeley. In
the faculty exchange, Dr. Charles E. Ratliff, chairman of the Davidson Economics Department, will affiliate with Forman Christian College in
Lahore, Pakistan. Forman will send to Davidson Prof. F. R. Falat, head of its Economics Department and dean of the
faculty for graduate studies.

The Subcommittee of the

(Staff Photos by Weems)

"You can't very well pay for people when protecting rocket sites in North Dakota."

Takeovers Work, Says U. Of Massachusetts President

Students for a Democratic Society, and lawyer Louis Nizer said granting campus rioters amnesty "leads to more riots."

Speaking in an interview, Lederle said the most significant characteristic of this year's disorders is the involvement with "real issues
that are very important." He contrasted this with the panty-raid and student drinking incidents in past years.

"Academic administrators have to try to keep ahead of the problems that cause students to take over buildings," he said.
"We have to get students to communicate through the normal and regular channels, but we have to also speed up
the decision-making process to eliminate the need for violence."

Lederle warned about the confrontations that result from the presentation of "non-negotiable" demands by students.

"The Afro-American Society presented a list of demands last fall. There were a few tense days, but compromise was possible.
Violence was averted," he said.

When SDS seized an administration building, Lederle called in police. The group presented an impossible demand that military and job
recruiters be barred from campus. "We had no room to move. The police were the only answer," he explained.

At Harvard, where students stayed away from classes with rare unanimity, the strike became more of a campus-wide intellectual exercise
than a confrontation of students and administration. Taking a moderate role, the students have met, discussed and then voted in
making their decisions. Motions to strike indefinitely were defeated once 2,869-2,848 and again 2,971-2,955. The final decision made was to
extend the strike another three days and demand a response from Harvard President Nathan Pusey about the SDS demands to
throw out ROTC and end plans to tear out low-income housing for a new library.

The strike began after Pusey ordered police onto the campus to remove SDS members who had seized the administration building.
The action was taken without warning to students, and 45 were injured seriously enough to require hospitalization.

However, students in general have never offered support to SDS demands. Rather, they chose to condemn the police action and
call for democratization of the university’s governing structure. Although the Harvard Corporation announced it would close the school were another
building seized, little tendency has been shown by the general student body to gather around SDS enough to give SDS
the people to close another building. In addition, many students fear that SDS may pose a significant threat to the
school’s quality and to their education.

Nizer, who is the author of best seller "My Life In Court," told an audience at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill that "a fanatic is not impressednor disposed to desist when someone yields to him.” “You wouldn't
protest firemen coming onto the campus to fight a fire. Why should you oppose police coming on campus to restore
order?" he queried. Asian Studies Program, headed by Rathitt, recommended some directions in which the new program should develop. First,
the subcommittee suggested that Davidson College establish a two-term, interdisciplinary course on "Introduction to the Civilization of South Asia." Other
courses in various departments should be added as well. Three additional specialists should be added to the faculty in different
departments. However, present faculty members should be retrained to teach the Asian course, the report said. Gaige has recommended a
fall seminar for faculty members on South Asia to create faculty enthusiasm in the program. He hopes to win student
and possibly community interest by offering lectures, slides, and films on South Asia. Finally, he hopes to teach courses in
the winter and spring terms on South Asia's international relations, human geography in South Asia, or Indian Civilization.

ATO’s Remain National

By one ballot last week, Alpha Tau Omega fraternity voted to retain its national affiliation, and by another ballot put
that affiliation in the hands of the national office. In a 42-29 vote, the ATO's voted down a proposal to
drop national ties. In other moves, however, the fraternity confronted national bylaws by voting to officially drop the blackball system
from its rules and by proposing that next year's pledges be given the opportunity to choose between local and national
membership. The latter proposal, yet to be voted on, would eliminate the social affiliate position in effect. Incoming pledges would
"pledge" themselves to the local house. They would then be given the option of paying the extra amount required for
national membership. It is believed that such a rule would be unacceptable to national officers.

SPENCER

Reverses stand with wit, drawl, and wealth of trivia. Several of the team played so far according to Lloyd. They
had heard the Southern accents of Gomer Pyle and Tennessee Ernie Ford and were sure that a North Carolina school
could not produce higher intelligence, Lloyd said.

By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

Robert Bryan may “ride to the hounds,” but last Sunday he got there before the fox did. The Davidson team
defeated Wesleyan University by a 416-40 score on last Sunday's "G. E. College Bowl." Bryan, the team captain, with a
slow drawl and a quick wit, led the scoring. During the halftime break, Bryan gave "riding to the hounds" as
one of his avocations. He could just as truthfully have said “belly dancing.” With Bryan’s wealth of trivia, and the
startling efficiency of Sam Gavynn, the cool quickness of Tim Timmong, and the deliberate delivery of Dick Anderson, the Davidson
team dominated the toss-ups and amassed points on the bonuses to trounce Wesleyan. Despite bowl coach Charles Lloyd's appraisal of
the Wesleyan team as "fast and brilliant," the team consistently beat the Middletown, Conn., university team to the buzzer and
went on to reel off the names of certain Caesars, modern poets, and words beginning with double A's. “Can any
good thing come out of Nazareth?” was the attitude of several of the team played so far according to Lloyd.
They had heard the Southern accents of Gomer Pyle and Tennessee Ernie Ford and were sure that a North Carolina
school could not produce higher intelligence, Lloyd said. Concerning this Sunday's match with Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Lloyd said,
“We can't look down our intellectual noses just because Skidmore was the first college in the nation to introduce a
major in physical education.”

TIME LOST

Remember that hour you gained last October when Daylight Savings Time ended? Then prepare to lose it again, because DST
resumes Sunday night. So move the hour hand ahead one hour Saturday night on any clocks or watches to compensate
for the time loss. DST will continue until the last Sunday in October. All these time changes are provided for
under the Uniform Time Act passed by Congress two years ago.

Spencer Backs 4-Point Plan

The faculty Educational Policy Committee Tuesday recommended a voluntary ROTC plan which President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said he would
support. Approved unanimously, the four-part recommendation to the faculty and trustees calls for:
—Making basic ROTC elective;
—Continuing academic credit for advanced ROTC;
—Exempting a student who is in all other respects physically fit from physical education during the corresponding term;
—And modifying the program to permit entry into the full military science program as late as possible.

Spencer, who three weeks ago said he favored compulsory basic ROTC, said he and Dean of Faculty Francis W. Johnston
“expect to support this recommendation fully before the faculty, and if it is approved by the faculty, before the trustees.”
“If approved by both the faculty and trustees, the proposal will become effective as soon as contractual agreements with the
Department of the Army can be implemented.” In announcing the committee’s decision, Johnston cited the “opinions and facts from interested
students and members of the faculty” as helpful in reaching the decision. Action by the EPC came after a voluntary
ROTC resolution was referred to it by the faculty. The resolution on the floor of the faculty had proposed only
that ROTC be made voluntary. Two student government resolutions calling for a voluntary program had been returned to the student
Senate by the EPC on the grounds of insufficient information. In addition, an SGA committee appointed by former president George
Murphy had met several times with the EPC in trying to persuade the committee to bring up the voluntary ROTC
matter. After the trustees had rejected the faculty's proposal for voluntary ROTC last year, EPC members indicated when they returned
to the Senate each student resolution that they were unwilling to raise the issue once more without new information.

(See EPC, Page 4)

Infantry? But Sir, I Signed Up For...

Unrequested branch assignments—most of them infantry—for 38 percent of the 127 seniors in ROTC have sent the Davidson ROTC Department
to work trying to reverse the assignments and avert a possible decline in enrollment in advanced ROTC. Although 52 percent
of the students received their first choice of branch, and another 10 percent their second or third, the assignments of
so many cadets to unrequested branches is unprecedented. One of the selling points in persuading sophomores to enter the advanced
program has been the near-perfect record the department has had in the past in securing preferred assignments. Col. Frederick B.
Outlaw, professor of military science, said that some of the 38 percent are “under review and analysis,” and seniors were
told in ROTC classes this week that the Davidson department was sending “full justifications” to the Department of the Army
for reconsidering many of the assignments. The unrequested branch assignments may be escaped by some students who are going to
graduate school next year, since in the past a graduate degree has usually facilitated transfer to another branch. However, the
department's recommended deadline for requests for assured educational delays to allow for graduate school is the end of next week,
seniors were told in class. A few among the 38 percent received preferred although unrequested assignments, so that not all
were assigned to combat branches. Of the students who received their first choice, a majority were pre-med or had been
designated Distinguished Military Students. Outlaw has been on the phone to Washington and Third Army headquarters daily in trying to
get the decisions reversed, according to a department spokesman. Failure to receive one of the three choices was an “Army-wide”
phenomenon to the adjutant at Wofford College, where one third of the seniors did not receive one of their requests.
Maj. Ted M. Lewis said that the number receiving their preference was “much lower” than in the past, but said
the department was making no effort to change the assignments because “none of our (cadets) have any grounds” for change.

(See BRANCH, Page 6)
