COED WEEK DEADLINE

Midnight tonight is the deadline for students who want to sign up for coed week. So far about 100 students have signed up and at least 140 are needed.

FINANCIAL AID

The deadline for applications for financial aid for next year is May 1. The forms may be picked up in the admissions office.

The Newspaper Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1969

NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

(Staff Photo By Davidson)

BOWL TEAM PRACTICES FOR FIFTH

Lloyd prepares Davidson's team for their last contest.

Davidson Tops Skidmore 365-70: Bowl Men To Face Dillard Sunday

By TOM DASHER
Staff Writer

Davidson's College Bowl Team defeated Skidmore College last Sunday 365-70 winning the right to return for a fifth and final appearance. Sunday's opponent will be Dillard University, the first all-Negro University to appear on the G. E. College Bowl. Team coach Charles E. Lloyd said that the team did not expect an easy win over Dillard and were neither overly worried nor overly confident. If the team wins, they will receive a trophy and the $19,500 which goes to the school. Uses for the money have not been specifically determined, though Lloyd said he hopes that some of it can be added to the scholarship fund of $20,000 from this year's program added from other sources. Response to the team's success has been good. One New York resident who has greatly admired the team sent a check for $100 to the college.

Student Life Committee Cites ‘Juvenile’ Actions

The following is the text of the resolution on fraternity hazing adopted by the Student Life Committee:

The Student Life Committee has taken note of DAVIDSONIAN reports (April 11, 1969) regarding instances of hazing during the recent Greek Week. While acknowledging improvement over past years, the committee feels strongly that this is not a situation in which there is a tolerable level of violation, but rather that any instance of hazing, in whatever form, is unacceptable. Such activities as egg fights, mud fights, scavenger hunts, and paddling have no place as activities of college organizations, whether instigated by mutual consent between brothers and pledges or not. This particular aspect of fraternity life should stop immediately and entirely.

The committee requests that the Jurisdiction Committee investigate such instances as occurred this year in order to see whether there is evidence of infraction of the Code of Responsibility which might call for disciplinary action against individuals or organizations. The committee requests that the student Senate and the Committee on the Union, Fraternities, and Clubs consult with the Interfraternity Council regarding its effectiveness as a self-policing body. The committee also requests that the Jurisdiction Committee investigate the reported event of a pig party reportedly held by Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. The Jurisdiction Committee may or may not find that the code is worded as clearly to prohibit such a juvenile affair. Whatever that committee’s view, however, it is our opinion that this reported event displays reprehensible behavior on the part of the local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

By BOB DUNHAM
Editor-in-Chief

The Student Life Committee lashed out this week at incidents of fraternity hazing which occurred during this year’s Greek Week activities. The article in THE DAVIDSONIAN noted that the IFC Judicial Board had acted on only one hazing violation during the week, since only one had been specifically reported. Special mention was given in the committee resolution to the “pig party,” reportedly held by Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The resolution labelled the function “juvenile,” and expressed the committee's opinion that “the reported event displays reprehensible behavior on the part of the local chapter in the context of the Code of Responsibility.”

The Code of Responsibility, in its section on “Social Responsibility,” condemned activities which it labelled “unacceptable” and “reprehensible.” The action by the committee came in response to an article appearing in the April 11 DAVIDSONIAN, which noted a decline in the amount of fraternity hazing this year and described specific acts of hazing in a number of fraternities. The committee acknowledged “improvement over past years,” but stated strongly that “this is not a situation in which there is a tolerable level of violation.” The committee requests that the Jurisdiction Committee investigate such instances as occurred this year in order to see whether there is evidence of infraction of the Code of Responsibility which might call for disciplinary action against individuals or organizations.

By ROBERT ELLIOTT
Staff Writer

The committee requests that the student Senate and the Committee on the Union, Fraternities, and Clubs consult with the Interfraternity Council regarding its effectiveness as a self-policing body. The committee also requests that the Jurisdiction Committee investigate the reported event of a pig party reportedly held by Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. The Jurisdiction Committee may or may not find that the code is worded as clearly to prohibit such a juvenile affair. Whatever that committee’s view, however, it is our opinion that this reported event displays reprehensible behavior on the part of the local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

By GENE LINTON
Staff Writer

The Free University of 1968-1969 has been “a successful first step to a new awakening” in the educational program, said Marshall Case, chairman of the Free University. Emphasizing the importance of individual student initiative, Case looks for an even more successful program next year. There will be some changes in the Free U. for next year, but these will be for the good of the program. Case said that next September would be the earliest that the station would go into operation.Alpha Epsilon, and it is quite questionable, and any constructive suggestions from people who recognize the efforts: ‘to want to ensure a broadcasting permit,’ said Stimpson. Specifically condemned from the College Bowl that proper action was taken. Anyone who is interested in the Free University. Case is interested in the overall educational policy of Davidson and sees the experimentation being done with the Free U. as an integral part. Among other ideas is a possible closer relation. Davidson has received an application for a teaching position from a man who watched the competition. SGA President Peter Hobbie said that no definite plans have been made to welcome the team back Monday. He hopes that a large student turnout will greet the team’s return each previous week. The part of the question cites certain standards of conduct which fraternities have a special responsibility to promote. The committee also requested that the Senate and the Committee on the Union consult with the Inter-fraternity Council regarding its effectiveness as a self-policing body. Stimpson then said that the Federal Communications Commission would probably give the station a temporary license so the station would not have to wait until the FCC makes the final evaluation of the application. “At the most, it would be a 90-day delay before the FCC okayed our construction permit,” Stimpson said. “It would be a little less with the testing permit.” The station board must meet with President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. so they can get him to decide on a station site, a prerequisite to completing the construction application. “We hope to meet with him within two or three weeks,” said Stimpson. The equipment would be tested in the summer. “If the FCC returns all the permits within time for testing before the school starts, the station will be on the air this fall,” he said. The college has agreed to provide the station with a $1500 budget for operating expenses, but money is still needed for the initial costs of equipment and soundproofing.

STEP Report Calls For Action

By MARK HODGES
News Editor

The Student Tutorial Education Program has made a preliminary organization of its 1969 activities. The Executive Committee, consisting of representatives from the Program and Community Relations Committee, Free University, Tutorial Project, and Youth Board, will govern the activities of the remaining three areas of the program. Case said he expects an even better year in 1969-70. He said that the program is not in any jeopardy. It is financially sound with the one-dollar fee and the Union Grant under which it operates.

In a statement of purpose, the STEP organizational report said: “What is needed at the beginning of the year and this can only be done if we can present the new member with a definite opportunity for action: preferably an already planned program in which he can immediately begin to assume a meaningful role.” In the spirit of this resolution, the STEP report divided the organization into four committees: Executive Committee, Program and Community Relations Committee, Youth Board, and Tutorial Project. The Program and Community Relations Committee, according to the STEP organizational report, “will be responsible for keeping in contact with the community by attending PADA Community Relations Council meetings in order that STEP programs will be more closely tailored to the needs and preferences of the community.” The report expressed the hope that with STEP’s greater interaction in the community, the community would take a greater role in organizing and implementing its own programs. Several possible areas of interest mentioned in the STEP report for this committee to pursue are new free university courses, placing Davidson students in summer anti-poverty programs, and educating the white community about the problems of poverty.

Housing Squabble

By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

East and Cannon dormitories will be utilized in housing the girls from Randolph-Macon during the week of May 5-11, according to Jon Jewett. The chairman of the SGA Coed Week Committee also said that today is the deadline for signing up for the exchange with Randolph-Macon. Jewett circulated a ballot polling residents of East and Cannon on their willingness to move from their rooms. “Close to 90 percent of the residents have said that they are willing to go, and a large part of the other 10 percent have said that they would otherwise collapse,” Jewett said. “We are not trying to overpower or to coerce anyone,” he said. “I only hope that some of the people will be willing to give a little for the majority of the group.” Originally the Coed Week had planned to house the girls in Richardson and Little, but protests from residents in those dorms resulted in the consideration of other alternatives. Jewett noted that the residents of East and Cannon may move into the rooms of people who have gone to Randolph-Macon and that they may possibly have access to their rooms from 10-12 each morning and 7:30-12 each evening.

Positive Militantism Best

Washington only tested in the summer. “If the FCC returns all the permits within time for testing before the school starts, the station will be on the air this fall,” he said. The college has agreed to provide the station with a $1500 budget for operating expenses, but money is still needed for the initial costs of equipment and soundproofing.

When asked what he meant by being “positive,” excluding violence, Washington replied that “you get upset and decide to do something about it.” Violence and shock techniques may sometimes be the most effective methods, according to Washington. Washington admitted that this “sounds very negative” but added, quoting from the Declaration of Independence, that the situation is “just like” that before the American Revolution. He did, however, advocate having a staff and just-elected president of the District of Columbia. “White liberals have helped,” he said, but added that their role should be “supportive” rather than overpowering.