The October 17, 1969 Page Three Up ’n’ Coming | Community Relations Committee

3 p.m. Soccer Away Davidson vs. N. C. Wesleyan
3 p.m. Freshman Football Here With Davidson

Mayor Thomas Sadler and the Davidson Town Council, as hosts, invited only Emerson Bell, president of the YMCA, and Ed
Dobbs, director of the radio station, attended. The Community Relations Committee met for dinner on Tuesday night, honored retiring committeemen,
and welcomed newly selected members.

Abbott said that the committee also would hold an open meeting on November 3 in order to become better acquainted
with the needs of the student body and the town. Before receiving a gold watch in appreciation of his service
as retired chairman of the CRC, Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes reviewed the committee's history, beginning with its conception in 1961
when the Presbyterian Church, dealing with the problem of integration, realized that a similar committee, on a larger scale, was
needed to improve relations within the town of Davidson. In October 1963, such a committee was formed.

Abbott pointed out that there still exists a need for community recreation facilities. Third, he pointed to the continuing problem
of insufficient rental housing in Davidson; for although some new housing has been built, the housing problem is still far
from solved.

The new members of the committee include townsmen John Brandon, Lawrence Kimbrough, and Mrs. Norman Johnson. Dr. Ernest F. Patterson
will represent the faculty for the first time this year. Jim Parks and Steve Silver, representing the student body, are
also new members of the committee.

Dean Anthony, the chairman of the committee, presided over the dinner, held annually to meet student leaders. Of those students
in attendance, only Emerson Bell, president of the YMCA, and Ed Dobbs, director of the radio station, attended.

Ostwalt Guarantees Early Area Exam Improvement
By NEIL COGHILL Staff Writer

There will be definite new developments on the area examinations question within the next four weeks, said Registrar Jay H.
Ostwalt in the Open End discussion Monday night. About 25 students were present.

The Educational Policy Committee meets today to consider the recommendations it has received following an open meeting with students Monday
afternoon and a similar one involving the faculty the previous week. Ostwalt outlined three probable areas of action by the
EPC: (1) some form of psychological and academic relief from the pressure the sophomores are now under in terms of
possible alternatives, (2) optional meetings with representation of the reading list and requirements.

Meanwhile, Ostwalt affirmed that the EPC was “genuinely concerned” about the situation, and certainly did not want to hurt anyone
emotionally or academically. “If a man has a problem, I'll talk to him any time, day or night,” Ostwalt guaranteed.
He assured those present that he would be perfectly willing to aid anyone in transferring if that was what they
decided to do. Furthermore, he promised that the College and he personally would do everything they could to get as
much credit as possible transferred. This is a very crucial aspect, considering Davidson.

Skinner Speaks Monday At Little

Dr. B. F. Skinner, the eminent psychologist of the behavioristic school, will present a few of his projections for the
future in an address Monday morning at Queens College. Skinner, the Harvard professor who gained national acclaim for his book
“Walden Two,” will take his topic from the impact of the message on that book for the future. His talk,
“Walden Two and The Future,” will be presented at 10 a.m. in the Little Fine Arts Center at Queens. It
is open to the public.

The book, and no doubt the talk, deal with the visit by two ex-GI's and their fiancées to a Utopian
community run on the principles of Skinner's behavioral engineering. All things are owned in common; everyone is always happy. The
novel has provoked mixed reactions from Skinner’s academic contemporaries. It began some experiments in communal living along the lines described
in his book; on the opposite side, it provoked wide criticism for its Utopian improbabilities.

After his graduation from Hamilton College in 1926, he did fictional writing, and along the way received some encouragement from
a number of persons, including Robert Frost. He has said of this period, “I discovered the unhappy fact that I
had nothing to say, and went on to graduate school hoping to remedy this shortcoming.” Today he is regarded highly
for the vigor and freedom from jargon of his technical writing.

CORRECTION

In last week’s issue, senior Robert Bryan was quoted saying that the faculty action for the moratorium was “repulsive and
tawdry.” Bryan did use those terms, but he clarified this week that he was referring to the student planning of
the day of discussion and worship, not to the faculty action.

Underclassmen Vote On Oct. 21
By GEORGE KANEKLIDES Staff Writer

The freshman class will vote next Tuesday, October 21, from 8:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. for candidates in four representative
races. Three Freshman Class SGA residence hall senators, three RHC representatives from the freshman dorms, and one freshman class cheerleader
will be elected. The at-large Senator with the most votes will be freshman class President. Anyone rooming in Cannon, East,
or Watts, is eligible to vote, even upperclassmen residing in Watts.

Nine candidates have registered with Senior Class President Jim Hinshaw this week for SGA senator-at-large from the freshman class. They
are Jim Claunch, Steve Suflas, Rollie Summwalt, Gerry Bello, David C. Wymer, Spencer Clark, Mike Deese, Rick Zimmerman, and Henry
D. Smith, Jr.

Freshmen in Cannon will choose a residence hall senator from among four candidates: Jim Campbell, Robert Dawson, George Kaneklides, and
Steve Suflas. Four freshmen are running in East for the SGA senatorship there: Stephen Shepard, David C. Wymer, John Hopkins,
Gray Smith, and Walter J. Kruger, III. Only Don Bailey has signed up for the SGA seat in Watts dorm.

In the RHC races, Jeff Allender and Rick Whitener are running for the Cannon post. Charlie Davis in East dorm
and Ronnie Conoley in Watts are unopposed. The freshman class cheerleader's race is between Larry Duncan, Clay H. Gatewood, Bill
Gupton, and Gray Smith.Here's the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

son's non-traditional curriculum, and Ostwalt assured the students that he was fully aware of this. He went on to say
that he thought most 'good' schools would cooperate. Ostwalt urged students, particularly sophomores, to wait until December and see what
is going to happen, emphasizing the point that he was "expecting a reasonable solution." When asked how many sophomores the
College could financially afford to lose, however, he unhesitatingly replied "every one," but quickly added that he did not anticipate
this at all.

Ostwalt Promises Change

Indian Summer

Plans are now in the making for a seminar in India for American college students next summer. The seminar is
being arranged by a consortium of colleges in the Mid-Atlantic States whose director, Dr. Maxine Garner, will be here on
October 20 to talk with those interested. Participants will study for nine weeks in India, possibly for credit, with stop-overs
in Lebanon, Egypt, and Israel. Admission to the seminar will be open to any student in good standing for an
accredited liberal arts college. Those interested should get in touch with Frederick H. Gaige, Instructor of Asian Studies, or attend
the meeting with Dr. Garner in Room 216 Chambers on October 20 at 3:00 p.m. The deadline for application entries
is November 15.

Rhodes explained that last year the committee became an official arm of the town government and that under this status
it would continue to improve community relations. Addressing himself to the relationship between the town of Davidson and the students
in the college, Sadler said that work through and with the committee was "the most sincere protest" of the poor
conditions in the town. Abbott concluded the meeting by indicating to the group the direction which the committee and the
town must take to ensure the proper growth of the community: First, he pointed to the possibility of cooperation between
the college YMCA and the North Mecklenburg YMCA. Abbott next reminded the group of the impressive figures released by the
U.S. Army indicating that Davidson alumni rank near the top in the Officer Basic Course given by the army to
those who complete the ROTC program. According to the combined figures for fiscal years 1968 and 1969, 91 of the
159 Davidson graduates taking officers training were in the top one-third of their classes. And the percentage of Davidson graduates
in the lower third of their classes was a mere 18.9. These figures are even more impressive when one notes
that the Officer Basic Course trains only college graduates of the ROTC program. Among the approximately 260 colleges offering ROTC,
Davidson boasts some of the most outstanding statistics regarding the success of its graduates.

False Premise Hurts 'Easy Rider's' Strength

A REVIEW By DON HOYT

"Easy Rider," currently showing at the Visulite in Charlotte, is based upon a false premise: Americans are insipid, switched on
or debased, or bigoted and violent. The advertising for 'Easy Rider' reads, "A man went looking for America and couldn't
find it anywhere." 'Didn't find it anywhere' would be more accurate. It suffices to say that the Americans 'Easy Rider'
deals with are not representative. Not only are certain elements in our society shown completely out of proportion to their
numbers, but other sectors are omitted entirely. Indeed, the main characters themselves are not genuine, being either archetypes or stereotypes.

Wyatt, played by Peter Fonda, is the stolid, silent, masculine hero who sets off on his motorcycle in search of
America. In recognition of his physical superiority and intellectual impassivity, he calls himself Captain America—his helmet, the gas tank of
his motorcycle, and his jacket all bear the Stars and Stripes. Wyatt is a modern edition of the archetypal American
hero. His genealogy can be traced back through the spy, the fighter pilot, the detective, and the cowboy (the very
names of the main characters, Wyatt and Billy, call to mind legendary heroes of the old West) to Cooper's Natty
Bumppo, the first unsullied American Adam. It is really Wyatt who is doing his own thing in his own time.
None who see the juxtaposition of a rancher shoeing his horse and Wyatt changing a tire on his motorcycle can
deny that the film is a descendant of the Leatherstocking tales.

Billy, Wyatt's sidekick, is an enigma. He is the tight, hard-living, rebellious young man unsure of himself, his purpose, and
his future. In 'Easy Rider' he serves mainly as a foil to Wyatt's impassivity. The third important character, an alcoholic
lawyer from Arkansas, is never anything more than an amiable country bumpkin. Were he a Shakespearean character, he would be
billed as the clown. Unfortunately for the integrity of 'Easy Rider,' it is very difficult to reconcile his speech with
his being an ACLU lawyer, and his fear of his drinking being discovered by his family with (1) his habitual
drunkenness (surely Pop must have noticed) and (2) his sudden bolt from the respectable and conventional.

On the other hand, all of the characters and groups in the movie represent some part of American society. A
farmer with an Indian wife and half-breed children represents traditional American virtues: hard work, simplicity, piety. The Southern bigots, who
Fonda and Hopper represent, present a caricature of Southern bigots, but at least symbolize the very real, very conservative element
in the South. Some of the photography in the film is very beautiful, and the vastness of the Western landscape
is a good contrast to the narrowness of the people encountered in the film—indeed, the narrowness of outlook held by
the principal characters. Particularly noteworthy is the technique of vibrating the scene with the one just before the cut. Otherwise,
the film is adequate—adequate story, acting, direction, and musical background. In point of fact, the acting is sometimes poor, but
the film is not one which depends upon fine characterization, not a grievous fault since this is the case.

While viewing the film I sat in front of a Charlotte teenager who could have been one of the caricatures
in 'Easy Rider.' At regular intervals, whenever he was particularly impressed, he exhaled in a low, appreciative voice the word
"strong," which is, I suppose, the latest version of "tough," "cool," and "groovy." To echo his criticism, 'Easy Rider' is
strong, in the sense that limburger cheese and scotch are strong. Both are valued for their strength, although the connoisseur
may prefer food and drink which include subtler flavors.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

The Underground
4721 N. Tryon St.
Entertainment Friday and Saturday
FREE JAM SESSION SUNDAY 4-7 p.m.
No Cover During Week
Open 11 a.m. ‘til ?

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

COACH’S WIFE ENTERS STAGE

Ann Holland will play the lead in “The Countess Cathleen.”

Yeats’ ‘Cathleen’ Presented Here

The Davidson Community Players will present William Butler Yeats' religious drama “The Countess Cathleen” at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church on
Lorimer Road in Davidson on Thursday, Oct. 16 and Friday, Oct. 17 at 8:15 p.m. First produced in Dublin in
1899, “The Countess Cathleen” will be directed by Professor Frank W. Bliss of Davidson College. Mrs. Ann Holland, wife of
Davidson’s basketball coach Terry Holland, plays the title role. Playing the part of the peasant Mary is Mrs. Ethel Rhodes,
wife of Professor Dan Rhodes. Professor Ernest Patterson plays her husband Shemus Rua, and Len Sullivan will be their son,
Teigue. Mrs. Constance Welsh, director of the Children’s Drama Workshop, will play the part of the Countess’s old nurse Onna.
The cast also includes Terry Hirst as Aleel, the young poet who has fallen in love with the saint-like Countess.
Professor J. B. Stroud and Tom Way will be the demon merchants who scheme to buy the souls of the
peasants. Bill Lattimore has the steward’s part, and Mike Leach, Martha Plott, Nanci Smith, and Ellen Spencer will be peasants.

Reservations for “The Countess Cathleen” can be made by calling the Community Players at 892-7701. Tickets will also be available
at the box office prior to the performance on Oct. 16 and 17. Organized in Davidson in 1965, The Community
Players presented Eugene Ionesco's “The Bald Soprano” in Davidson and in Charlotte last year.

---
