Page Four May 23, 1969 (Staff Photos by Lyle)

TOM MORRILL RETURNS BACKHAND
He lost anyway, to Pika Frank Spence.

The Davidsonian

Stevens Optimistic About Next Year

For the past two years, the baseball team has been simply described as ‘fielding and Slade, but the pitching is
frayed.” This year, however, the Davidson batsmen added a pitching staff to Gordon Slade's hitting and the Wildcat fielding, and
recorded one of the most successful baseball records in recent years.

Three freshmen hurlers, Mike Frye, Rick Pipan, and Marshall Case, joined the Wildcats this year and won seven of Davidson's
eight victories. Pipan also led the team in strikeouts, fanning 59 while walking only eight. Slade was his usual swinging
self, finishing fourth in the conference in batting with a .363 average. He also led the Davidson team in RBIs
with 14, hits with 33, and doubles with five.

In the team’s banquet yesterday, Slade was chosen most valuable player for this past season. He was also selected by
his teammates to captain the team next year. The team captain for this year, Frank Murphy, was awarded the Rick
Smyre Hustle Award for the second time.

IMAC Net Tourney Keeps Bouncing On
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

Despite a rain-delayed start, the IMAC tennis tournament got into full swing, as all of the first-round matches as well
as several second-round matches have been completed in the double-elimination tournament. Play in the tournament is set so that competing
teams play two singles sets, and if necessary to break a tie, one doubles set. The sets played are ‘pro
sets,’ which means that a player must win nine games and win by two in order to capture the set.

Through Wednesday, the Phi Gamms, Pikas, and Sigma Chis all had advanced to the semifinals of the winner's bracket. The
Gamm team of Steve Hemphill and Bob Haggard received a bye in the first round and then defeated the Sig
Eps, Mike Hood and Gene Linton, 2-0. The Sigma Chis overcame the Phi Delts in the first round as the
doubles team of John Saunders and Bill Horton defeated the Delts’ Cliff Patterson and Duncan Postma. The two teams had
split in singles competition, with Saunders defeating Jack Caldwell and Patterson edging Horton. The Pika team of Frank Spence and
Bobby Sanders eased by the KA’s, Charlie Ralston and Ran Coble, 2-0, and then whipped the Independents, McCrea Ewart and
Tom Morrill, 2-0.

In the first-round matches, the ATO’s edged the Kappa Sigs, 2-1, and the Sigma Nus defeated the SAE’s, 2-0. In
defeating the Sigs, the ATO’s won one singles match by forfeit and then won the doubles set, 9-7. For the
first nine games of the doubles set, William Brown played alone for the Sigs and fell behind, 7-2. When his
partner Bill Bailey arrived, the Sigs rallied to an 8-7 deficit before losing. The Sigma Nus, Dale Vash and Bill
Johnson, looked very strong in defeating the SAE’s, Bill Ross and Charlie Cameron, 2-0. With Bruce Weidner also available to
play, the Nus figure to challenge for the championship along with the Sigma Chis.

Cowboys Lasso Huckel To Pact

Wayne Huckel flipped a three-sided coin and it came up Cowboys Tuesday. Huckel signed a conditional three-year contract with the
Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League. The pact will run for the full three years if Huckel makes the
team this fall. He was also accepted at the University of Pennsylvania’s law school and had been drafted earlier by
the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association.

Davidson assistant football coach Jimmy Jordan made the arrangements between Huckel and the Cowboys. After a scout watched Huckel work
out this spring, the Cowboys offered him the contract. The Dallas club has a past history of switching basketball players
into pro football standouts. Defensive back Cornell Green and offensive end Pete Gent both played college basketball, but no football.
Huckel, noted for his hustle and aggressiveness on the basketball court, has not played football since his junior year in
high school at Cranford, N.J. Dallas will try him as a receiver and as a defensive back, his high school
positions.

Davidson Signs Basketball Star
By A. W. TURNER JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

The recruiting program of basketball coaches Larry Brown and Bo Brickles continues to progress, as another new addition to the
Davidson hardwood, John Pecorak, signed a cage scholarship yesterday. Pecorak, a 6'6" post man from Fairfax, Virginia, last year led
his Woodson High School team to a 19-2 record. He was the leading rebounder on the team, averaging 13 stray
shots a game, and was the second leading scorer behind his younger brother, with a 17-point average.

“We are really excited about getting Pecorak,” Brown said. “We feel we are very fortunate to get him. He is
an aggressive ball player and a team leader.”

Marshall Case, freshman pitcher for the Wildcat baseball squad, went to Jefferson High School in Alexandria, Va., and played against
Pecorak. “He's a husky guy,” Case commented, “and is real strong inside. Pecorak is a lot like Doug Cook, very
aggressive and a good rebounder. He charges the boards real well. Despite being an aggressive player, he seems to avoid
foul trouble.”

Pecorak was sought by schools all over the country, but narrowed his choice down to Tennessee, Columbia, Rutgers, and Davidson.
Pecorak's younger brother is considered to be one of the top future prospects after finishing as one of the top-ranked
players in Virginia this year.

Reds And Whites Clash Tomorrow
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

Davidson students and football fans will get a pre-season look at the 1969 version of Wildcat football tomorrow afternoon when
the gridders will play their spring football game. The contest will match the first team offensive and defensive units against
the other members of the squad. The first team, or “reds,” will be coached by head coach Homer Smith and
defensive coach Dave Fagg, while the “whites” will be under the direction of line coaches Jimmy Jordan and Turnley Todd,
the newest addition to the Davidson coaching staff.

“It should be a very good game,” Smith said after Wednesday's practice, in which the two teams practiced against each
other. “It's the old story of number two trying to beat number one.” The contest, which begins at 2, will
be a full game, complete with officials, clock, and kick-offs. “We'll have the wraps on the game for obvious reasons,”
Smith said. “We won't show all that we can do so that we’ll have some surprises left for next year.
I expect to see a lot of running, since we have been working hard on our ground game this year.
Also, there may be a few other new twists.”

One of the many interesting aspects of the game will be the appearance of ex-basketballer Ricky Snipes as a starting
defensive lineman. Smith has been pleased with Snipes’ development so far this spring. The “whites” will be quarterbacked in the
first half by Mark Thompson, while all-conference Gordon Slade will lead the “reds.” Many of the starters from last season's
varsity line will anchor the forward wall for the “reds,” while the “whites” will have almost an entirely freshman line.
“It may be a little one-sided, but it will give the team a good chance to play under game conditions,”
Smith said. “Besides, number two tries harder, and that could make the game very interesting.”

Stevens said. “We've done a good job, and I’m proud of our eight wins.” Stevens singled out Murphy and Stew
Brown for being “real leaders for the team this year. They were able to give a lot of the freshmen
help and to spark enthusiasm in the team.” Stevens was also pleased with the play of Bruce Weidner, a senior
playing his first year of baseball for Davidson. “Bruce did a fine job, considering that this was the first time
that he'd played college ball. He was one of our leading hitters and fielders.” Weidner finished behind Slade among the
regulars, hitting .268.

Stevens is very optimistic about next year, particularly because of the returning freshmen. Besides the three pitchers, outfielders Hill Mapes,
John Calhoun, and Gene Williams, infielder Jack Latimer and catcher Harold Wilkerson will be back after their first season. “Wilkerson
did a good job behind the plate as our starting catcher this year, particularly in handling the young pitching staff,
and Latimer should be a sure starter next season somewhere in the infield after playing well this year,” Stevens said.
Also, several new faces will be among the baseballers nextyear, faces that Stevens feels will bolster the Wildcat baseball program.
Davis Beaston, a pitching star from High Point, leads the list of incoming baseballers. Beaston was an all-state pick last
year and could add much-needed depth to the Wildcat staff. Four other prep mound standouts will also join the Wildcat
team. Andy Davis, who is coming to Davidson on a football scholarship from Pennsylvania, Felix Mitchell from Jacksonville, Fla., Fred
Ourt of Wilmington, and New Jersey's Bruce Batten all promise to lend support to the Wildcats. All in all, it
looks like improvement in Davidson baseball is not just a one-year thing. As Stevens said, “I think that we're on
the rise.”

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM — Wher-Rena Marina Highway 73, 4 miles from Davidson

BEST ITALIAN DISHES WEST OF ITALY! Your Dining Will Be An Experience To Remember!

Rendezvous In Charlotte At LaTORINO RESTAURANT & TAPROOM Best Pizza In Town Choice Charcoal Steaks — Imported & Domestic Wines
Brown Bagging — Tap Room 6 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Sunday 4 p.m. to 12 p.m. One Block East
of Independence Blvd. 1427 E. Fourth Phone 332-6352

Pick up a box or a bucket this weekend COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE Kentucky Fried Chicken. 503 S. Broad Mooresville, N.
C. Phone 664-1505

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristorante BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads —
CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristorante Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The DAVIDSONIAN DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. APRIL 1, 1974

Woodrow Wilson Re-Many Civic Improve-Societies Elects Receives President Martin, ments Launched

PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS

Woodrow Wilson received President Martin, many civic improvements launched. Societies elect officers. Baseball season forecast. Celebrations of interest about town.
Prospects for a good season must be ready.

Notables seen in town include Leonard Cincotta, Davidson College alumnus, and others. Educational experts discuss the future of education.

Briefly, the date of the next meeting is set. The president will address the alumni at the annual banquet.

Notable events include the dedication of the new library. The committee has been working hard to prepare for the event.

The library committee has received letters of support from alumni.

The president announced that the new library will be named in honor of a notable alumnus.

The orchestra will perform a concert in the new library.

The Davidsonian will cover the event in detail.

Since 1914: The News of Davidson And 1969-70: The Year of Decision

Follow the news for next year as the presidential commissions report and the college tries to understand its Christian commitment,
restructure its social life, define its responsibility off campus, decide whether to coeducate, and make up its mind on subsidized
athletics.

Meet the new basketball coach, Larry Brown, and follow the Wildcats as they grab for another Southern Conference Championship, and,
just maybe, a trip to the nationals.

Watch President Spencer as he enters his second year as president, facing the financial problems of a small liberal arts
college, the question of black admissions, and the insistent demands for reform.

Get the news about Davidson each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Subscribe now for the 1969-70 year.

Subscription Form

Name: _______________
Address: _______________
City: _______________
State: _______________
ZIP: _______________

I enclose $7.00 New
Mail to: Circulation Mgr.
Bill me at $7.50 Renewal
Box 218 Davidson, N. C. 28036
