Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Subscription rates: $6 per year, $6.50 if billed.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON Editors-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969

ROTC Has To Go

We've waited long enough. It's time for compulsory ROTC at Davidson to end. The Blue Sky Committee has proposed it, and the faculty has endorsed it. Said the committee: "No question before us caused greater concern among us, but we are united in our conclusion that Military Science, as a subject matter in a curriculum, is not compatible with the ideal of the liberal arts and ought not to be required of anyone."

And, for what it’s worth, the student Senate unanimously recommended that ROTC be voluntary. There is good reason for these actions. It's extremely questionable whether a college can be “second to none in the service of God and man” (as the trustees’ statement of purpose says) and require military training. It is likewise incredible that a college as committed to the pursuit of truth as Davidson says it is would allow the Pentagon to appoint members of its faculty and autonomously run an “academic” department.

In addition, there is little evidence to show that ROTC would be eliminated by making it voluntary. Rather, the reports we’ve cited before from other schools where ROTC is voluntary or has recently gone voluntary indicate that ROTC hasn't been hurt by being voluntary. In fact, going voluntary even helped the program at the University of Tennessee, according to one of the officers there.

On the other hand, who says Davidson needs even voluntary ROTC? The college is here to provide a liberal arts education and to serve humanity. It is not here to serve just our own society or even the United States, but man. And how ROTC training at Davidson provides a liberal arts education, trains students in the pursuit of truth, and serves humanity is beyond us.

But whether voluntary ROTC will survive or not isn’t really the issue. But if you think that’s important, then you can rest easy, for the chances are exceptionally good that, compulsory or not, ROTC will survive here. The trustees meet May 9, and will once more have to decide the ROTC issue. This time, we urge the trustees to listen carefully to what students and faculty are saying and abolish compulsory ROTC. To do less will constitute a betrayal not only of the principles on which Davidson College is founded, but also of the people Davidson seeks to serve.

Go Fly A Kite

In the few short days left in March, go enjoy that most Marchest of pleasures. While the chance still remains, go fly a kite. For notice: The winds of this gusty month will soon abate. Then the gentle rains of April will pierce to the root the March drought, and call forth the warm sun of May. And then, the season to fly kites will be gone. What’s more, the trees, so newly repaired after the winter’s damaging snows, will soon have their year’s fill of those paper birds, and no longer will there be a chance to do battle with the kite-eating trees. (By the way, Davidson has three of that rare species, according to the Biology Department. One is behind the football stadium and the other two — find them. They were given through the generosity of the Charlie Brown Foundation.)

So forget the jug of wine, loaf of bread and Slater for a while. Forget Dr. Abernethy’s Humanities. Let Unified Science separate into its various components and dissolve (20 ml. of solvent). Marchness is a sufficient amount of solvent. Forget the ponderousness of unreality that besets Davidson, the unreal seriousness of affairs at this small college at the fringe of life. Go fly a kite.

Wasted Time

About that vote on constitution amendments last Tuesday: While some students were voting, others were taking an ROTC exam for the second term. This is because ROTC is still compulsory here. And that exam itself wasn’t scheduled by students. It was set up by the registrar’s office. In other exams, the only women involved were two professors and a few students’ wives. That’s because Davidson is still sexually segregated. Students taking those exams returned to rooms looking like slums. And that’s basically what they are. The faculty administering those exams is segregated, both racially and religiously, and sexual integration is but token. All the professors are white. All the janitors are Negro.

When these students who voted returned from spring vacation, which was only four days long under a faculty-passed schedule, many did not have cars because the admissions committee won't allow it. Those who did have cars were parking down by the fraternity court or tennis courts when their destination was the dorm. There wasn't enough parking. And meanwhile, back in the lobby of Chambers, the vote continued...

Why the vote? Basically because the student government is arguing over its constitution. One side in the ridiculously vicious infighting before the vote said the Senate Executive Committee violated the constitution and bylaws. That they did, obviously. And the principles of democracy, fair play, etc. on which they challenged the violation are important, obviously. But the violation was trivial, as the other side pointed out. For the SGA to get ensnared in trivialities was wrong, obviously. But what neither side could see was that the whole thing was as irrelevant as the SGA itself. Both sides prolonged the issue, and both did so needlessly and childishly. And in the process, what relevancy the SGA did have slipped farther away.

So while the president and vice president of the SGA sat manning the polls (the Elections Board got so sick of the mess that it resigned), ROTC was still compulsory, the school wasn’t coed, scholarship students can’t have cars, exam schedules were still being planned by the Registrar’s Office, and soon....

Pray tell, what is a student government for?

1,000 Believers

It all seemed a bit odd when the local newspapers shed their prior prejudices following Lefty Driesell’s announcement of his plans to retire and turned their type to praise for the controversial coach. And it was laid on a bit heavily, too. But when all the praise and the prejudice were laid aside, it was quite obvious to everyone that Davidson would miss Driesell. Indeed, Driesell has left his mark on this school, not only in building the “academic giant” into a basketball power, but also in spreading the name of the school beyond the Catawba. Regardless of one’s stand on subsidized athletics, in spite of the academic disapproval of his courtside manner, the fact remains that Davidson owes a great deal to Lefty Driesell. And when he claims that Maryland will soon be the UCLA of the East, at least 1,000 persons believe him. Driesell is a winner.

Look Before You Leap, ‘73

The significance of that questionnaire distributed by the Commission on Athletics a month ago seems to have gone unnoticed: that giving athletic scholarships and trying to play big-time ball costs a hell of a lot. At least it laid to rest that old myth that basketball supports the whole sports program. Incredibly enough, basketball alone loses over $56,000 a year, including coaches’ salaries. Perhaps not so incredibly, football loses the whopping sum of over $241,000, compared to $90,200 for all other sports combined. It is perhaps not legitimate to count coaches’ salaries into the total loss, since we presume we would have coaches if the teams were not subsidized. Without these, football loses $185,000 and basketball about $13,000.

From this it would appear advantageous for Davidson to approach its commitment to big-time football, at least, with a little skepticism. As the report points out, if some of those receiving athletic grants did not have them they would be eligible for scholarships on the basis of need. Scholarships, for instance, would not yield a saving of $122,000, the amount of football scholarships, but the saving would be considerable. What it amounts to is that the 903 students who are not receiving athletic grants are paying pretty close to $100 a year for subsidized athletics. Not only that, but the college persists in its archaic policy of refusing to allow students with need scholarships to keep cars on campus while those with athletic scholarships are allowed to. There is a narrow and hypocritical favoritism about this that is repulsive, and the college does itself a disservice when it treats students in this manner. We are not so foolish as to think that at any time...In the near future, there is a possibility that the giving of basketball scholarships will be decreased. Pragmatic considerations seem to take hold at Davidson over much less prestigious issues than this. But if ethical considerations will not prevail, perhaps the financial onus of shelling out large sums for football will cause some questions to be raised in the student body. Somebody’s paying for that football deficit, and we think it's us.

Rowland Reaffirms Constitution Stand

To The Editor:

Several weeks ago, Phil Riner asked me to take charge of several cases he wanted to bring before the Court of Appeals. Having been a member of the constitutional convention and being acquainted with the objections he was raising, I agreed. Since then, I have been amazed at the misinterpretations of my stand and would like now to clarify my position.

Initially, the whole affair centered around violations of constitutional provisions, but now I see the matter in a somewhat grander scale. I will not argue the merits of a constitutional form of government (cf. Hamilton, Jay, and Madison in ‘The Federalist Papers’) or its applicability to a small college campus. I prefer to argue for something more basic — honesty.

The members of the campus legislative, executive, and judiciary bodies are all sworn to uphold and enforce the constitution. It seems that conscious violation of such an oath comes under the heading “honor violation” and might seriously be considered by the Honor Court. At any rate, the student government is sworn to obey the constitution, and I believe that it should be required to do so.

Another objection is that the constitution is not workable and that since the job of government is to be effective, the student government is justified in its disobedience. This objection is easily attacked on several grounds. First of all, how is it that Peter Hobbie finds the constitution unworkable when he helped rewrite it just last year? Secondly, the campus government is obligated to uphold the constitution from which it draws all its power. When it finds the constitution getting in the way, it is obligated to amend the constitution according to specific procedure.

The next objection raised is that my position rests on procedural legalisms alone, but I beg to disagree. My stand rests on the premise that honesty professed should also be practiced. In other words, if we claim to have a constitutional government, let us have one; but, if we do not want a constitutional government, let us not institutionalize hypocrisy by claiming a constitutional government.

The final objection raised concerns consequences: “doesn't it matter?” In that student government professes to be an exercise in democracy, I say it matters considerably whether we have tyranny or democracy. General student apathy concerning the current constitutional crises adds no weight to arguments of those who would unabashedly violate sworn oaths of office and constitution alike.

Perhaps you wonder whether I have proof of constitution violations. Not only have I proof, but a considerable amount of it has been presented in court by Phil Riner and myself to the effect that on several occasions the student government has violated its own bylaws, the constitution, and various court orders. Furthermore, I am willing to discuss the matter with anyone interested in agreeing or arguing as long as the discussion proceeds not on emotional personality conflicts, but within the framework of reason.

Paul E. Rowland Jr. ’71
Davidson College

Females

To The Editor:

Needless to say, social life at an all-girls school is somewhat limited, and the “Fairest Flowers” of Winthrop are more than painfully aware of it. One area especially lacking is the excitement of collegiate sports. Our basketball team wasn't much, and our football team hasn't won a game in over a century.

However, to the north of us is a school which, conveniently enough, is all male. Moreover, this school has a basketball team that more than makes up for our lack. Those guys played a terrific season, and we here at Winthrop think they have earned every word and gesture of praise and appreciation in the superior manner of Davidson gentlemen. Over the season, we sort of adopted them as our own, followed them faithfully, and they never failed to make us proud.

The team’s record speaks for itself. Twenty-seven wins out of 30 starts is no small accomplishment. Even that heartbreaking final game, though not a victory, should be regarded as a star in the crown of the team. Though some tend to blame the loss on one player, let's face it, how do you guard God? Every man’s performance showed the unselfish effort and determination that makes a great ball club.

The close of the season has taken the thrill out of tearing through the morning paper to the sports page. We will all feel the loss of the colorful men, including the coach, who are leaving. We're sure that next year's team will continue in the same inimitable manner. To this year's team, to be honest but trite, we know you're NUMBER ONE!

Shert Truluck
Cookie Clyburn
Linda Guyton
Winthrop College

Wailing Wall

Let THE DAVIDSONIAN be a Wailing Wall. THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes—nay, covets—letters to the editor, regardless of the position they take. No signed letter in good taste has been refused publication in recent years. Letters should be typed and double-spaced. We do not print anonymous letters. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be published in that week's DAVIDSONIAN unless there is no available space, in which case they will be held for later publication. THE DAVIDSONIAN reserves the right to edit letters over 250 words in length.

By ROBERT PYEATT

The Defense Corporation

Although I, too, have been aroused by such rumors as “Will H. Edmunds White follow Lefty to Maryland to be director of admissions there?” and “Has the basketball bubble burst?”, a recent news item about the Defense Department was even more arresting. Defense Secretary Laird said that he was alarmed at how many retired generals took jobs with companies with large defense contracts and how this must influence some of those multi-billion dollar decisions they make. Now when Melvin Laird is alarmed about the goings-on of the military-industrial complex, you know that it has to be something really serious.

But there is a simple solution to the problem. Therefore, I propose that to forestall any further encroachments of business on the military, and since business already controls the military anyway, that all the functions of the Defense Department be turned over to private enterprise. This proposal is not only in the best American tradition of opposition to big government, creeping socialism, etc., it would yield numerous other benefits.

Private industry can undoubtedly do things much more efficiently than the Pentagon. I recently read somewhere that the United States is spending around $300,000 for each Viet Cong killed in Vietnam. Now the Mafia normally kills somebody for a paltry $25,000. Why not let private enterprise do it, and save a lot of money?

With a little cost analysis and a few efficiency experts, this country could avoid getting into unprofitable wars and supporting unprofitable governments in small developing nations. As a recent chapel speaker suggested, we could trade those South American, African, and Asian countries on the international market if they didn’t pay off. Besides, there wouldn’t be any of this wasteful killing of women and children on the side. If Dow Chemical had to apply cost accounting to all that napalm, you can bet that no excess villages would get burned.

And what if some hardheaded, no-nonsense businessmen were handling the Paris peace talks? If they were losing money on the deal, they would end it in a hurry. Since Wall Street already varies dramatically with the rise and fall of this country’s war fortunes, the dissolution of the Defense Department wouldn't interfere with normal stock activity.

However, a few subtle social changes would occur. In addition to “captains of industry,” there would also be majors, colonels, and generals. Not to mention a few executives, junior grade, and chief petty officers and warrant officers, otherwise known as blue-collar workers.

With the vast store of knowledge and practical experience now residing in the Mafia, or “Cosa Nostra” as it is known among the in-crowd, the killing end of the business could easily be turned over to them. This would bring the syndicate even more out into the open than they are now. They could be listed on the Big Board with all the other “defense” companies. And that $4 billion a year income they make could be taxed at regular corporate rates — with, of course, suitable write-offs or depletion allowances for personnel lost in action, wear and tear on equipment, etc.

A provision could be written into the contract requiring the Mafia to declare all their holdings in Swiss banks and on the stock market. Many have long suspected that Swiss banks were not only used by the Mafia, they were owned by the Mafia. There would be no point in declaring amnesty for any of their past crimes, as the government could never convict them anyway. As President Nixon and J. Edgar Hoover agree, the real threat to the country is campus disorders, not organized crime. So we should call on these outstanding businessmen to bring peace and calm back to our nation’s campuses. With a little Mafia efficiency and free enterprise, Mayor Daley’s little show of force would look like one of those typical clumsy government efforts which should have been left up to private industry. After all, free private enterprise is the backbone of our nation, the foundation of America's freedom.

Laud Wildcats

Conveniently enough, this school is all male. Moreover, this school has a basketball team that more than makes up for our lack. Those guys played a terrific season, and we here at Winthrop think they have earned every word and gesture of praise and appreciation in the superior manner of Davidson gentlemen. Over the season, we sort of adopted them as our own, followed them faithfully, and they never failed to make us proud.

The team’s record speaks for itself. Twenty-seven wins out of 30 starts is no small accomplishment. Even that heartbreaking final game, though not a victory, should be regarded as a star in the crown of the team. Though some tend to blame the loss on one player, let's face it, how do you guard God? Every man’s performance showed the unselfish effort and determination that makes a great ball club.

The close of the season has taken the thrill out of tearing through the morning paper to the sports page. We will all feel the loss of the colorful men, including the coach, who are leaving. We're sure that next year's team will continue in the same inimitable manner. To this year's team, to be honest but trite, we know you're NUMBER ONE!

Shert Truluck
Cookie Clyburn
Linda Guyton
Winthrop College