+ Friday, April 25 - Saturday, April 26. 8:20 p.m. Monday, April 28 Tuesday, April 29 6 p.m. AAUP Banquet All Day Pol van Gel, Caricaturist 11 a.m.-5 p.m. ROTC Blood Drive 8 p.m. Initiation of Gamma Sigma Martin Science Epsilon, National Chemistry Fraternity All Day Pol van Gel, Caricaturist 12:15 p.m. Inter-Racial Forum 11 a.m.-5 p.m. ROTC Blood Drive 2 p.m. Social Patterns Commission 4 p.m. Vereen Bell Presentation and Speaker George Garrett, poet in residence Hollins College 8 p.m. Hungry d. Erica, Eros, and Young Up ‘n’ Coming Morrison Room Chambers Banquet Hall Graduate Record Exam 10 a.m. Social Patterns Commission 8:03 p.m. Movie: ‘Mondo Cane" Wildcat A. Morrison Room On Campus Johnston Gym On Campus Wildcat A - Johnston Gym - Wildcat B Morrison Room Morrison Room 7:30 p.m. Free University Campus Wednesday, April 30 All Day Pol van Gel, Caricaturist On Campus 10 a.m. Drama Workshop Presentation Love & 1 p.m. Discussion and Lunch with Cafeteria Dr. David Grant on “Man” 7 p.m. German film, Don Giovanni Perkins 2 8 p.m. Hungry d, Erica, Eros. Morrison Room and Young Thursday, May 1 All Day Pol van Gel, Caricaturist On Campus 10 a.m. Piedmont University Visiting Scholar Dr. William Langer, Professor of History, Harvard 7 p.m. 20th Century Africa class Perkins 8 p.m. Hungry d. Erica, Eros. Morrison Room and Young Friday, May 2 All Day Pol van Gel, Caricaturist On Campus 3 p.m. The Monarchs, Between the Fraternity Houses 8 p.m. Concert: Love Aud. Poco and Ars Nova 8 p.m. Hungry d. Erica, Eros, Morrison Room and Young Labor Mediator Aids Penn State Pennsylvania State University is experimenting with labor mediation techniques as a means of mitigating disputes on campus. Nationally known labor mediator Theodore W. Kheel was invited to the campus by economics professor Jacob Kaufman and spent a day talking with students, faculty, and the president, Eric A. Walker. At Kheel’s recommendation, Penn State instigated an office for student discussions last week which Kheel described as an organ “to act as a commission agent between the student body, faculty, and administration.” The function of this office would be to “channel the student demands to appropriate decision-making authority for prompt action,” he said. Kheel also suggested the appointment of a mediator acceptable to all interests who would assist the flow of dialogue between them. Other proposals have been made to solve campus disputes. Washington education consultant George Arnstein encouraged the foundation of a “campus consulting council” to advise college administrators who are under fire at a meeting of American Association for Higher Education held in Chicago last month. President Nixon has instructed the Department of Health, Education and Welfare to plan some program to ease campus disputes. Legislation establishing federal mediation procedures for campus disputes is now being drafted by the staff of Rep. Edith Green (Dem.), chairman of the House Special Education Subcommittee studying campus violence. With the aid of a Ford Foundation grant, the American Arbitration Association will soon open a center for dispute settlement, which would take on all types of public conflicts. Earlier efforts by labor negotiators in the field of student conflict have had mixed results. They were unsuccessful in efforts made at San Francisco State during the recent four-month strike there. NEW NAME Folk-Rock Group Comes To Hungry d By MARK HODGES News Editor Erica, Eros, and Young, probably “the most professional musical group on the college coffeehouse circuit” will perform the last “Hungry d” Coffeehouse in the Morrison Room of the College Union April 29-May 2. They will appear at two shows nightly—at 8 and 9:15 Wednesday and Thursday and 11 and 12:15 on Friday and Saturday nights. Rob Krehbiel, co-director of the Davidson “Hungry d” along with sophomore Glenn Mauney, said that this group is one of the most likely of the groups on the circuit to become big-name entertainers. “In fact, they’ve just cut a record for Decca and have high hopes for its success,” Krehbiel said. “Erica, Eros, and Young” is a relatively new name for the trio, which used to be known as “Sounds Unlimited.” “They dropped this name because they felt it suggested a hard rock musical group,” Krehbiel said. “They like to classify themselves as harder than folk but not hard rock.” Erica Schmitz is the solo vocalist of the trio. She is an experienced singer whose voice, according to Krehbiel, has “a sweet, crystal clarity.” The two men in the group are Jon Adelson, lead guitarist, and Dick Seale, bass guitarist and composer. They stress the vocal rather than the instrumental aspect in their music. They have performed recently at the University of South Carolina, Lenoir Community College, Appalachian State, and last week at Gaston College where according to Krehbiel, “they were very well received.” “They’ll do a lot of original material as well as some original arrangements by some well-known groups,” Krehbiel said. “And they’ll also combine humor with their music. “We’re hoping that this last Hungry d of the year will be a big success. A big problem though will be Spring Frolics coming on the last two days of the act. We hope that students will bring their dates to one of the shows at the Hungry d before going to their respective fraternity parties.” The Davidsonian — April 25, 1969 Page Three CAMPAIGN SHIFTS GEARS The voluntary ROTC campaign took to the walls of Chambers recently as posters lined the halls. Slogans such as “ROTC is good business. Invest your son,” and “Peace is not possible on earth. So quit trying,” may be seen. The ROTC issue is currently pending before the faculty. (Staff Photo by Davidson) Sadler To Fill Mayor’s Position; Nine File For Five Council Seats By NORWOOD POLAND Staff Writer Nine candidates have filed for the five seats on the Davidson Town Council to be filled in the election on May 6, according to Town Registrar Mrs. James B. Alexander Sr. Only one person has filed for the office of mayor, however. Incumbent Councilman Thomas S. Sadler will take over the post vacated by retiring Mayor F. L. Jackson. Sadler, a Democrat, has served on the Davidson Town Council since 1947, missing ACLU Official To Speak Tonight By DAVID GRISSETT Asst. Managing Editor Charles Morgan Jr., noted civil liberties attorney, an official of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and author"TA Time To Speak" will be the guest speaker of Davidson's chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) banquet tonight. Morgan, who is director of the Southern Regional Office of the ACLU in Atlanta, received national recognition for his widely published statement several years ago when three children were killed in the bombing of a church in Birmingham, Ala., where he then lived. Currently, he is directing Operation Southern Justice, a broadscale attack on discrimination against Negroes and women in jury selection, while providing legal counsel on a wide range of civil liberties issues, according to Dr. Alan B. Brinkley, president of the Davidson AAUP chapter. Morgan is also known for his efforts to defend the controversial Army doctor Howard B. Levy. Morgan's defense questions the constitutionality of large portions of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Morgan was an associate of Dr. Ernest F. Patterson while Patterson was teaching at the University of Alabama.

Lehmann Cuts Schools, Student Protest Tactics

While defending the demands of students in general during their protests against college administrators, Dr. Paul Lehmann, who spoke here Friday, firmly expressed disapproval of their tactics. Lehmann, of the Union Theological Seminary in New York, criticized both universities and students in conflicts such as the recent ones at Harvard, Columbia, and California universities. He claimed that the universities are not "doing the human business." However, Lehmann said of the students that the tactic of taking over campus buildings to make points and to enforce their demands was wrong. "I can tolerate interruption but not disruption," he said of the student takeovers. Lehmann expressed part of his concern over student takeovers of campus buildings by criticizing their conduct once inside the buildings. He noted as especially nefarious the destruction of college files by students. In spite of his dislike of student disruptive tactics, Lehmann did not place all the blame for campus disruption on the students. He also criticized the way in which administrators have dealt with the students in the past. "We need to find some better way out other than clobbering people with police clubs," Lehmann said. He added, "That doesn't help. Calling the police is not the answer... I don’t know what is."

Princeton Adds Women To Undergraduate Rolls

Princeton University trustees voted to admit women to the undergraduate school for the first time in the school's 223-year history last weekend, and also decided to add recent graduates to the university’s board of trustees. The new trustees, who are to be elected by students and recent graduates for four-year terms, will join a board whose median age is above 60. Two trustees are to be elected this spring. At Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn., seniors are preparing to elect a trustee who will take office after graduation. The class is to choose between three nominees for the post. The Vanderbilt board of trust approved the additional trustees last fall. Classes of '66, '67, and '68 will also elect one trustee each, since the trustee action was retroactive to the class of '66. Nominees are chosen by a nominating committee appointed by the president of the Vanderbilt Alumni Association. Vanderbilt’s action guarantees at least four members of the university’s governing body who are recent graduates. The board of trust increased its membership from 32 to 36 to provide for the new members, who are to serve four-year terms.

Jackson, Fuller Essay Hits ABM

Davidson professors William E. Jackson and Jon W. Fuller have argued against the ABM system in the latest issue of the national magazine "Christianity and Crisis." Both men agreed that arguments against the ABM, to be effective, had to speak to the merits and demerits of the defensive system as claimed by its proponents. The purpose of the article, according to Jackson, is to "take apart the anti-Chinese rationale" offered in defense of the anti-missile system. Jackson and Fuller argue that the reactions from Russia and China which are apt to follow the deployment of the ABM offset the value of going ahead with the program. Jackson said the Chinese and Russians would probably resort to building "more exotic" offensive weapons, a move which would clearly shift the nuclear arms race game into a different ballpark. There is, he said, some logic to keeping the contest on the ICBM level of sophistication, which the U.S. has mastered. The article which appeared in "Christianity and Crisis" was actually written some time ago, but day-to-day changes in the ABM debate have forced continual rewriting. Jackson said they had to extensively rework the piece in order to counter Nixon's new rationales for the ABM. Both Jackson and Fuller have written for national journals before. Jackson writes occasionally for the "New Republic," and Fuller has appeared in "Orbis," a journal which discusses the issues of arms control and nuclear war.

Candidates for the Town Council include four incumbents: Eugene McEver, Dr. J. W. Reid, Grover Meetz, and H. B. Naramore. The five challengers are Davidson religion professor Dr. Daniel O. Rhodes, William T. Gurley of Gurley's Esso Station, Robert Gregory of the Piedmont Bank, Joseph McClain of Johnson's Barber Shop, and former Councilman John T. Kimbrough, Davidson mathematics professor. While Kimbrough is the only former councilman among the challengers for the council, Rhodes has served for the past year as chairman of the Mayor's Council on Community Relations, which has taken a leading role in the town government since last year’s student picketing of Johnson's Barber Shop. Mrs. Alexander, who has been registering new voters since April 18, said that only about 30 new registrants had filed so far for the town elections. In spite of the fact that McClain is the first Negro to run for a town office in Davidson, only one new black voter had registered as of Monday, Mrs. Alexander said. The books will remain open through today, April 25, however, and voters fulfilling residence requirements are eligible.

Voter lists for town elections are independent of those for county, state, and national contests, and Mrs. Alexander reminded voters that they must register separately for the town election. The right to vote in town elections is open to all persons at least 21 years of age who have been residents of North Carolina for a minimum of one year and of Davidson for 30 days.