FROM THE BENCH
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

Movies, Milk and Sleep

As we all know, it's tournament time again. Lefty tells us this is when the fun begins. For me, this
is the time when we play for the silver-plated trophies and the Bulova watches. Especially, this is the time when
the starters get mean and lean while the skins get fat and happy.

For the players, the Southern Conference tournament begins when we leave school either Wednesday afternoon or Thursday morning. Although the
tourney is played in Charlotte, we move into one of the three motels surrounding the coliseum, taking with us the
good wishes of our fellow students twenty miles away.

The first important information we seek out after arriving in Charlotte is who is to room together for the long
three days. Although this doesn't sound that crucial, the tourney stay is much longer than our usual road trips and
congenial roommates are helpful. Sooner or later during the season, each player rooms with everyone on the team, but you
hope for the best at this time.

To illustrate the difference, I will use Bob Pickens, who played last year, as an example. Bob was a great
TV watcher on trips. He could name just about every program that had been on since TV was invented and
Ed Sullivan appeared. He knew from memory the stars and co-stars of such weeklies as the old “Leave it to
Beaver” and “Mr. Lucky.” He even knew the horse names in all the Westerns. It was hard for him to
room with a studious player when the first thing he did when he walked into a motel room was to
turn on the TV.

Like Bob, Steve Kirley is a tube connoisseur. Steve sticks mainly to old movies which come on at odd hours
in the morning and afternoon. He can just about tell you what are the best and worst flicks to watch
on the early-early show, the early-late show, or the late-early show. Being a walking TV movie guide, he was in
his element in New York where movies play on TV until five in the morning.

I imagine Doug Cook and Wayne Huckel are good roommates because they sleep all the time. Whenever you knock on
their door to borrow some toothpaste because you didn’t bring a tube or the maid threw it away, either Wayne
or Doug is snoozing. They wearily open the door and give you what you want and then hop back in
bed.

A bridge game is usually in session in Duncan Postma’s room. Duncan has probably read most of Charles Goren’s works
and never fails to expound on his learnings. Mike Maloy and I occasionally sit in on a game while Mike
O’Neill drops in once in a while to try his luck.

We eat very well on our road trips and especially during the tourneys in Charlotte. The Barclay Cafeteria is just
east on Independence Ave. and we eat most of our meals there. Lefty will tell us to go there and
pass through the food line making sure we don’t buy any greasy foods. Also, we’re not to have any berry
pie (Strawberry, Blueberry, Cherry, etc.) or milk. You see, Lefty says milk has cholesterol in it and we will all
have heart attacks or something if we drink it. He hasn't explained why berry pie is bad for us, but
I’m sure there’s a logical explanation.

During the afternoons on Friday and Saturday, we usually go to a movie. Lefty approves of movies for the players
in that it’s a type of recreation that doesn't take too much energy and also it keeps us out of
trouble for two or three hours. At Christmas, we saw most of the flicks Charlotte had to offer. O’Neill and
Moser are avid movie-goers and I usually talk to them before seeing anything.

After the last game in the tourney is played, we usually go out and get something to eat. Occasionally, we
meet some of our opponents in the same establishment and being foreign to Charlotte, they always ask “where the action
is.” We kind of laugh and ask “what action?” We then tell them to see Kirley about the TV movie
schedule.

TO OVERCOME ‘KING BASKETBALL’
Fogleman Cites Role Of Soccer, Tennis
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer (First in A Series)

Shortly, the spring sports schedule will be in full swing. Many of Davidson's athletes will be competing on the baseball
diamond, tennis courts, and cinder track—all non-subsidized athletes. In this first article concerning the so-called “minor” sport, problems facing the
tennis and soccer teams will be examined in their relationship to the overall successes and shortcomings of these two non-subsidized
sports.

Coach Harry Fogleman, who directs the squads, says that the sports are not minor. “The distinction should be between subsidized
and non-subsidized sports, not major or minor,” he said.

Minor sports or not, tennis and soccer do not command the public attention which is focused on the basketball and
football teams. What can be done to overcome this problem, to bring them out of the ominous shadow of “King
Basketball,” is a difficult question.

Concerning the soccer team, Fogleman named several additions to the facilities which would be tremendous assets to the program. “When
we moved the soccer field some 25 yards to allow the practice football field to be built, I was promised
a new field, but we don't have it yet,” said Fogleman. He added that seats for spectators, a scoring table,
and a larger practice area and goals would definitely improve the facilities for soccer.

There is apparently an interest in Davidson soccer, as evidenced by letters which Fogleman has received in the past two
years from high school coaches in the Atlanta, Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia areas. These letters question him about scholarships. In
reply to these, he must respond that no athletic scholarships are given to soccer players.

“How can the soccer program be successful if no money can be offered to prospective players?” Fogleman asked. Fogleman answered
this question himself by saying that his programs “can operate without scholarships. However, I feel that the college should realign
its thinking about scholarships. If soccer and tennis were to be subsidized, then all other sports should be.”

He compared a football player who receives $2500 to a tennis player who has to pay $2500, and stressed a
point which is very relevant to the subsidized athletic problem: “Both players are working hard, they have made a team
and are contributing to the program. It seems to me that the one who must pay should receive something for
his efforts, at least meal-money.”

The sport which concerns Fogleman the most is tennis. He receives almost fifty letters annually from high school players inquiring
about scholarships and must answer them negatively. Says Fogleman: “I feel that our program has a lot to offer a
boy. We provide equipment for him, and I have no qualms about the present budget. It is adequate for the
program.” If the sport were subsidized, he added, then the budget would have to increase to...

Cannon II, Delts, Nus Capture Titles
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The championships of both freshman and fraternity intramural basketball were decided on Wednesday night as Cannon 2 whipped East 2
for the freshman title and the Phi Delts won their game against the Pikas to tie the Sigma Nus for
the title in fraternity competition with an 11-1 record. The Nus won their last game on Tuesday night and clinched
a tie for the championship, so the Delts had to win to tie for the title.

The Delt victory was probably the most exciting game of the season as the Delts withstood a fourth-quarter Pika rally
to win, 50-49. The Delts pulled out to a seven-point lead in the first quarter on the strength of their
rebounding and some fine shooting by Gene Early. They maintained this lead until the fourth quarter when the Pikas began
their rally. While the Pika defense was holding the Delts to only six points in the final quarter, Brian Smith
and Davis Liles led the offensive surge which tied the score at 49 all with a minute to play. Garth
Hampton was able to convert a free throw with 25 seconds remaining for the final margin of victory. The Pikas
tried to set up a final shot, but the Delts intercepted a pass to wrap up the win. The loss
left the Pikas in third place with a 9-3 record.

Early was high scorer for the Delts with 16 points followed by Ed Dobbs with 15. Mark Affeldt had 16
for the Pikas, Smith 14, and Liles 10.

In the freshman championship, Cannon 2 rode the scor...

Academic-Minded Strong Talks Of Negro Problems
By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

Unlike many athletes, it was academics, not basketball, that was the first consideration which brought freshman forward Lester Strong to
Davidson.

“I wanted a place where I would be accepted for myself, not as one of Lefty’s boys,” said Strong. “I
had a few apprehensions as a Negro about coming south to Davidson, but part of a complete education is being
exposed to different conditions. It helps you understand.

“I’m deeply concerned with...

LESTER STRONG
... academic influence

... the Negro problem, since really it's the human problem. I think that through college I can prepare myself so
that I can do more to change the situation.”

Although Strong said that the small number of Negroes enrolled at Davidson did not worry him in making his decision,
he would caution another Negro student about certain circumstances in coming to Davidson. “You have to be willing to contend
with some tough problems which affect not only Negroes but all students. If I didn’t have a car...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

here I would be lost. It’s bad enough for a regular student without a car here, but it’s worse for
a Negro.” Strong starred at Braddock High School in Pennsylvania and received from 50 to 75 offers from various colleges
to play basketball. “I was fairly happy with the season that the freshman team and I myself had this year.
I was actually anticipating a possible low-scoring year since I had to make the transition from center in high school
to forward here,” Strong said. This season Strong, who often faced taller competition and got into foul trouble, averaged about
12 points per contest and finished second in team rebounds to Eric Minkin. Although Strong’s chances of starting are slim
with all varsity front-liners returning, Coach Lefty Driesell is counting on him to add considerable bench strength to the Wildcats.

Woody Montgomery and Hal Mapes led to a 50-39 victory over East. Montgomery scored 15 points and Mapes 14. Both
of these teams finished as runners-up in their divisions in the regular season, but both were able to beat the
previously unbeaten division winners, Watts 3 and Cannon 3, in playoff games held last week, and thus earned the right
to compete for the championship. In other fraternity games this week, the Sigma Chis brought their record to 8-4 and
clinched fourth place by winning two of three games. They beat the SAE's, 66-56, and the Phi Gamms, 60-45, while
losing to the Delts on Monday, 66-47. The Kappa Sigs and ATO's tied for fifth with 7-5 records. The Sigs
beat the Taus badly, 81-53, but were beaten by the SPE's, 62-58. The SPE's won their second game of the
week by trouncing the Pi Kapps, 63-31, but were edged by the Delts, 53-42. The SPE's finished at 6-6, good
enough for seventh place. The rest of the standings find the SAE's at 5-7, the Betas and Indies at 4-8,
the KA's and Phi Gamms at 3-9, and the Pi Kapps at 0-12.

* * *

Sporttopics

* * *

Mike Maloy and Jerry Kroll, Davidson's two leading scorers, have been named to the All-Southern Conference first team. Doug Cook
and Dave Moser were chosen as second-team All-Conference choices. Maloy, the third highest scorer in the league with a 24.2
average and the second highest rebounder with a 14.7 average, was named as a sophomore last year, while Kroll, sixth
in the conference scoring with a 17.7 average, was named for the first time. Joining Maloy and Kroll on the
honor squad are George Washington's Bob Tallent, Furman's Dick Esleeck, and Kenny Foster of Richmond. Cook was also a second-choice
last year. This season he has averaged 14 points and nearly 10 rebounds a game, while play-maker Moser leads the
conference with 125 assists. Other members of the second team are the Citadel's Tee Hooper, VMI's John Mitchell, and East
Carolina's Richard Keir.

Bryan Adrian finished the freshman season with the highest scoring average in Davidson history. The Brooklyn, N.Y. native, possibly the
best shooter to ever play for a Wildcat team, averaged 28.7 points a game this year, hitting 49.6 percent of
his shots from the field. Eric Minkin led the freshmen in rebounding by grabbing 14.4 rebounds a game.

For the second time in the past three weeks, Mike Maloy has been chosen as the Southern Conference Player of
the Week. Maloy was chosen due to his performances against Duke and Virginia Tech when he scored a total of
55 points and pulled down 37 rebounds. Also, Maloy became the seventh person in Wildcat history to score over 1,000
points in his career.

Tickets for the Southern Conference tournament championship game are on sale today at the ticket office for one dollar. The
tickets will be sold to students through this afternoon. The winner of the Southern Conference tournament will face independent power
Villanova in the first round of the NCAA Eastern Regionals. Villanova, ninth-ranked and sporting a 20-4 record, was chosen for
an at-large berth along with St. John's and Duquesne. The winner of the Southern-Villanova game will play the winner of
the contest between St. John's and the Ivy League champion.

A big selling point for the tennis team is the schedule. Twenty-five matches are played, and Fogleman likes to schedule
large Eastern and Midwestern schools. Another lucrative aspect of the program is a trip, usually to Florida, during spring vacation.
“We play some competitive matches, but we generally let the boys have a good time.” Fogleman pointed out that “we
have excellent facilities here, and this impresses the boys who show an interest in coming here.” He operates with no
budget for recruiting, but as a member of the Ranking Committee of the United States Lawn Tennis Association he is
constantly aware of the outstanding young tennis players across the country. In relation to the Southern Conference, Fogleman sees no
reason for Davidson's withdrawal. “We would be lost without the conference,” he said, referring to Davidson's overall athletic program. When
asked what he felt were the weaknesses of our athletic program, Fogleman was quick to reply that “the non-subsidized sports
are not given adequate publicity.” Though the football and basketball programs receive favorable publicity, the other sports are given very
little notice or none at all by area newspapers. Fogleman produced a ‘ring binder’ containing clippings of the soccer games
for the past season. This “coverage” amounted to three minute rectangular articles giving the results of only three games. “I
don't know whose fault it is, but something should be done to publicize our non-subsidized sports,” stated Fogleman. With such
a glaring weakness as this lack of publicity, it is little wonder that the tennis and soccer teams are, along
with golf and swimming, “minor” sports. Maybe subsidization would make these sports more glamorous and appealing to prospective high school
athletes. Maybe the “D” club should become a more honored organization. Maybe more publicity should be given, and this is
possibly one remedy for the low esteem which is given to these “minor” sports. After all, the “D” earned by
a soccer or tennis player is the same size as one earned by a football or basketball player. As Fogleman
pointed out, “The fellow who pays the $2500 would like to see his picture in the paper too.”

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

MORE PUBLICITY NEEDED

Fogleman calls for more interest.

Elusive SC Crown Just Two Long Games Away

Just two wins separate Davidson from the elusive Southern Conference basketball championship. But, as the saying goes, it's easier said
than done. Three teams, all talented, dedicated, and inspired, stand possibly in the path of the Davidson onslaught, and all
three teams have one goal—to knock off the Wildcats. The first team to get a crack at the Wildcats will
be the Richmond Spiders, due to their win over Furman last night. Leading the Richmond charge is All-Southern Conference candidate
Kenny Foster, the fifth highest scorer in the loop with a 20.4 average. Sharing the backcourt with Foster is Picot
Frazier, averaging 14.1 points a game, giving the Spiders the second highest scoring outside threat in the conference. Up front
for Richmond are Stan Ryfinski (17.4), Frank Owen (10.7), and 6'8" center Jim Hewitt (7.2), combining for around 20 rebounds
a game. If Davidson is to get by the semi-final round tonight, the Wildcats will face either East Carolina or
George Washington, winners in first round action last night, in the conference championship game. East Carolina is one of the
two conference schools that Davidson didn't play this year, the other being William and Mary. Therefore, a championship confrontation between
the Wildcats, the top-ranked team with an unblemished conference record, and the Pirates, second-seeded with only two conference setbacks, would
be an interesting clash. Leading the scoring is Richard Keir with a 16.2 average, good for tenth in the league.
However, only four points separate him from the starter scoring the least. If East Carolina does not make it to
the conference finals, then it will be because of a couple of Colonel Tallents. George Washington and its pair of
deadly outside shooters, Mike and Bob Tallent, meet the Bucs tonight to fight for the right to meet the Davidson-Richmond
winner in the championship round. The Tallents are currently scoring at a combined 47.4 rate, the best one-two combination in
the league. Bob continues as the top scorer in the conference with a 30-point average while little brother Mike is
scoring 17.4 points a game.

BEST ITALIAN DISHES WEST OF ITALY!

Your Dining Will Be An Experience To Remember!

Rendezvous in Charlotte At LaTORINO RESTAURANT & TAPROOM

Best Pizza In Town

Choice Charcoal Steaks — Imported & Domestic Wines

Brown Bagging — Tap Room

6 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Sunday 4 p.m. to 12 p.m.

One Block East of Independence Blvd.

1427 E. Fourth

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:

Phone 332-6352

Wanted: College Students (men and women) for camp counselors for Coastal Boys’ and Girls’ camps, June 15 - August 23.
Excellent character references and ability to instruct in camp program (sailing, motorboating, aquatics, land sports), required. Good salary according to
age, experience, and college classification. Room and board furnished. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to:

Wyatt Taylor

Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer

Post Office Box 10976

Raleigh, N.C. 27605

Rush Wilson Ltd.

NEW SPRING MERCHANDISE ARRIVING DAILY

Suits in Plaids, Stripes, and Solids

Sport Coats — Bold Solids, Plaids and Stripes

Also Shirts and Slacks in New Bright Colors

Come in early while the selection is good.

Rush Wilson, Ltd.

Davidson, N.C.

---
