The Wildcats of Davidson can be glad that they throw out all the records when they play bowl games because the University of Toledo Rockets will have some imposing ones on their side when they play in Orlando, Florida. While the Wildcats have been outscoring teams this year to post their 7-3 mark, Toledo has been shutting down offenses and rolling up scores. The result has been a perfect 10-0 and No. 20 in the national polls. 

Toledo coach Frank X. Lauterbur will bring a defense that is ranked first in the nation to stop the Gordon Slade-Mike Kelly aerial circus. The Rockets are ranked fifth in the nation in defense against the running game, giving up only 83.8 yards a game. Their pass defense is only a step behind as they have contained opponents to 125.3 yards per contest. Curtis Johnson, an All-American candidate, leads the secondary with seven interceptions. Gary Hinkson with five and Tom Duncan with three interceptions round out the veteran backfield. Another big thorn in the sides of the Rockets' opponents this year has been Paul Schnitkey, who has recovered two fumbles and run them all the way for touchdowns.

While the Davidson offense flies on football wings, the Rockets patter along on foot. Leading the way on the ground are Tony Harris and Charlie Cole. Harris has picked up 849 yards rushing on 146 attempts this fall. Cole, the fullback, gained 625 yards on 144 carries. Cole has scored ten touchdowns while Harris has eight. Cole has been caught only four times for losses all season. Danny Crockett, a punt return specialist and slotback, has averaged over ten yards a carry on 13 tries. 

The other big foot in the Rocket attack is placekicker Ken Crots. Crots holds the NCAA record for consecutive points after touchdown but saw that string snapped earlier this season. He has connected for 41 extra points and six field goals to place eleventh in the country in points scored by a kicker. Ed Terry, Davidson's placekicker, has six fewer points and ranks twenty-second.

The key to the Rockets' improvement over last year's 5-4-1 record has been sophomore quarterback Chuck Ealey. Ealey, named the most valuable player in the Mid-American Conference this season, is a scrambling, roll-out type passer. He has picked up 516 yards rushing while being caught for a loss of 249 yards, for 267 net yards. He has been an effective passer when the occasion has called for it, hitting on 88 of 162 passes for 1281 yards. He has thrown for 11 touchdowns. Lauterbur has compared him with John Schneider, who led the Rockets to a 9-1 record two years ago before playing in the Canadian Football League.

Ealey’s favorite receivers have been Don Fair and Al Baker. Fair caught 29 passes for 391 yards and three scores. Baker has pulled in 21 passes for 435 yards and five scores. Crockett has picked up two touchdowns and 319 yards on receptions from his slotback position. Harris and reserve fullback Dick Seymour are the other leading receivers with 11 and 8 catches respectively.

Toledo has also set some team records in addition to their unbeaten season. They have scored more touchdowns, 35, and more points, 329, than any team in Rocket history. Another ominous record is yards by opponents, only 838. Other touchdown marks were passes, 12, and total offense, 3725 yards.

The Phi Delts splashed to a one-sided victory in the IMAC swimming tournament behind four record-breaking performances. The Delts showed crushing superiority in winning seven of the nine events contested while chalking up 130 points. The Coterie finished second with 77.88 and the Gamms captured third with 71.84 points. The Pikas had the other non-Delt winner and a fourth-place finish. Doug Scott captured the 100-yard individual medley for the Delts, tying the old mark of 1:05.5 set last year by John Cronin. Scott teamed with John Bartle, Cliff (Staff Photo by Ramachandran) WHERE EAGLES FEAR TO FLY Doug Cook scores from high above Furman.

Unbeaten Rockets To Showcase Running, Number One Defense

The University of Michigan basketball team will visit the Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow night and they can't be blamed if they can't decide which of the Wildcats they have to keep from scoring. Rookie head coach Terry Holland unleashed a balanced, diversified scoring attack on the Furman Purple Paladins and convinced some of the fans that the Wildcats just might win the Southern Conference title again this year without the services of Lefty Driesell. After the Wildcats broke a 99 deadlock, Furman couldn't find a way to keep all of Holland’s guns from going off in their faces as the Cats presented their new coach with a 109-90 win in his debut.

Doug Cook was the first gun that Holland fired. He hit for 23 points, and four rebounds were the high figures on the team. Cook also turned in a strong defensive performance on Joe Brunson, who led the Southern Conference in rebounds last year. Brunson managed only 10 points and 16 rebounds, most of which came after Cook had departed. All-American Mike Maloy served as gun number two as he proved to be more deadly for Furman than a September 14 birthday. Maloy headed for the outside and hit well, scoring 21 points and snaring 11 rebounds. Lisco Thomas had all he could handle and then some in guarding Maloy as the Furman star picked up four quick personals and then fouled out early in the second half.

Holland's third gun was sort of like your old shotgun, deadly but with a lot of kick. Brian Adrian scored 18 points on shots that only he could have made look easy. Adrian played a deceptive non-defense which netted several steals and the slowest fastbreak baskets in the world of basketball. Jerry Kroll ended up as a fourth gun after a slow start, scoring 12 points. Guns five and six, or maybe they should be called just gun number five together, were Demoisey and Ron Stelzer, who alternated at point. Each turned in three assists and shot well, Demoisey hitting on four of five shots and Stelzer on two of three.

The Paladins countered with fine performances from Steve McCammon and Jerry Martin, who scored 20 and 21 points respectively. McCammon scored 18 points in the second half to keep the score close.

Davidson Counts On Pass Offense In Classic Tangerine Bowl Contest

The Davidson Wildcats will be hoping that they can outscore their opponents one last time this season as they send their passing attack against the potent defense of the Toledo Rockets. The key manFor the Wildcats, senior quarterback Gordon Slade, the nation’s number three passer, will be leading the team. Slade finished the regular season with 198 completions in 321 attempts for 2,321 yards and 21 touchdowns. His .617 completion percentage was the best among the nation’s quarterbacks. Slade set a new mark for passes completed, breaking his own record of 190. His 21 touchdown passes broke the old record of 14 that he shared with Jimmy Poole. He was only one attempt short of his old record of 322 and broke the passing yardage and total offense records which he had set last year. Slade ranked tenth in the nation in total offense despite having negative four yards rushing.

Slade’s favorite targets, Mike Kelly, George Hannen, and Mike Mikolayunas, all finished in the top 20 in receiving. Kelly caught 70 passes, another Davidson record, good for 891 yards, 11 yards short of his own record. Kelly rated fifth in receiving. Hannen caught 58 passes for 709 yards and ninth place nationally, while Mikolayunas had 53 for 346 yards and seventeenth place. Hannen set a new Davidson scoring record with 70 points. His 11 touchdowns also tied him with Mike Kelly, who went for that many scores last season. Hannen finished the campaign with second place in the country in punt returns with 21 returns for 471 yards and three touchdowns. His average of 22.4 yards a return is the highest in the country.

Ed Terry proved to be the hard luck man as far as the record book was concerned, as he twice tied with his brother Jim's record of 22 consecutive extra points but failed to break it for the second and third times. His 41 extra points did break John Giles' old record of 26 in a season.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT (Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

Winter Paladin rode into the sunset. Holland will be pointing all of his Wolverines' guns at the All-American Rudy Tomjanovich. Last season, Tomjanovich set out to assist the Cazzie Russell record book at Michigan and successfully tied Russell's mark of 48 points. His scoring average of 25.1 was second only to Purdue's Rick Mount in the Big Ten. Tomjanovich hit on 49.4 percent of his shots. The Wolverines will be coming off a narrow one-point loss at the hands of Notre Dame, regarded as one of the nation’s top teams.

TICKETS
A new ticket policy has been instated this basketball season at the request of the Student Government Association, according to Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott. Under the new policy, date tickets will still be purchased in the gym for all games, both at Charlotte and Davidson, but student tickets for the Charlotte games must be picked up between six and eight the night of the game at the Coliseum. Date tickets will be picked up at the same time with a receipt given by the ticket office at Johnston Gym.

Scott said that the Student Government Association requested the new policy to make ticket sales more equitable for all students. He mentioned that the chief reasons for the change were the unfairness of the old system for students with morning classes and the difficulty involved in getting seats together with friends. “This will be a lot better, I think,” said Scott. “It has been made at the direct request of the Student Government Association. They asked to set it up this way and I was happy to do so.”

President Peter Hobbie said, “We know that there would be complaints no matter how we did it, but we thought this was the best and fairest way possible.”

By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Plans for the first playing of a Tangerine Bowl basketball tournament as early as next year are being completed now in Orlando, Florida. The tournament, to be sponsored by the Orlando Lodge 1079 of the Elks, who also now sponsor the Tangerine Bowl football game, would pit a representative from the Southern Conference and one from the Mid-American Conference against Rollins College of Winter Park, Florida, and Stetson University of DeLand, Florida. The games would be played during the Christmas vacation period.

“We have practically concluded arrangements with one Southern Conference team and one of the Mid-Americans, and will definitely hold the first tournament on December 28th and 29th, 1970, on Rollins’ court,” Bell commented. Rollins is located in the suburbs of Orlando.

Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott, however, said that it is unlikely that Davidson will be traveling to participate in the Florida tournament. Scott cited the fact that Davidson was already sponsoring the highly successful Charlotte Invitational at this time and said the cost of sending the team would be more than the trip would be worth.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St.
Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

SHOE SALE
THE RED HANGER
ALL WINGTIP, PLAIN TOE OXFORDS, AND TASSELS NOW 25% OFF
THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Everyone Have A MERRY CHRISTMAS And A HAPPY NEW YEAR