Page Four April 25, 1969 The Davidsonian

LEAN YEARS AHEAD? Subsidization Hopes Dim --Scott

By STEVE WILLIAMS
Sports Writer
(Last In A Series)

Now that the spring sports are in full swing, Davidson athletes are participating in rugby, baseball, tennis, golf, and track, all under the label of "intercollegiate minor sports." In the past four articles of this series, we have tried to analyze the problems, successes, and shortcomings of the spring sports and several of the sports labeled "minor."

With Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics and Physical Education, lies the task of coordinating the programs of both major and minor sports, plus the job of coaching the golf team. Under his direction, the golf team has brought home the past three Southern Conference golf championships. So far this season, however, the golf team hasn't been up to par. Scott noted that the outcome of the golf season will be determined in the final tournament at the end of the season, and that Davidson's chances are still very good for continuing their title domination.

The main problem confronting the golf team, according to Scott, is replacing the players who have graduated in the past. He also reiterated another problem, the one that has been emphasized by the coaches of the other minor sports, "non-subsidization." The list of schools subsidizing golf in the Southern Conference is a growing one. George Washington, Furman, and East Carolina University all have scholarships to offer. "It's not a lack of interest that hurts golf, but competing with subsidized teams," Scott said.

Scott, talking about spring sports in general, turned to some of the brighter points concerning the matter of minor sports. He noted that at least 40 percent of the student body participates in athletics. "Not everyone can play basketball or football, so the minor sports are most valuable as a carry-over for the students. The spring sports give more students a chance to participate on the intercollegiate level," he noted. Soccer, wrestling, track, swimming, golf, and baseball eliminate the "size problem" in intercollegiate sports that keeps many good athletes from participating in the major sports. Dr. Scott added that "the minor sports broaden the areas of participation" for students.

The biggest handicap still remaining is that the minor sports are non-subsidized. "Despite this definite disadvantage we still hold up," continued Dr. Scott. Swimming, baseball, and track are hurt the worst, according to Scott, by non-subsidization. "You need good pitchers in baseball to build a team. They are usually offered athletic scholarships by other colleges and go elsewhere." Soccer doesn’t really feel the pains of non-subsidization since there are still several schools that don’t subsidize their soccer teams. As for track, Scott agreed with Coach Heath Whittle that it would be unfair to give scholarships to just a few athletes: "You couldn't give a few scholarships in track because you would end up having to give a lot of them to be really fair," said the athletic director.

As far as tennis and golf are concerned, Scott noted that they have managed to win several conference championships despite playing subsidized teams. Scott also discussed the problem of facilities, noting that "all of them could be improved. We could certainly use a new golf course," he said, citing this as one of the disadvantages to the golf team. When asked about the lack of publicity for the minor sports, Scott replied that "we can't force a newspaper to put an article in. If we get them the material and they don’t run it, there's nothing we can do about it."

According to Scott, the possibilities of subsidizing these sports in the future are dim. "We have a difficult time getting enough for just basketball and football as it is," he added. From the standpoint of the previous articles in this series, it is apparent that non-subsidization is a bigger problem than many alumni, faculty members, and students realize. The stronger teams of Davidson's non-subsidized units, golf, tennis, and track, are apparently facing dismal seasons as the result of competing with the continually growing list of subsidized teams. Whether or not subsidization would improve minor intercollegiate sports at Davidson is questionable, but it would put them on the same basis as other teams in the Southern Conference. Maybe wrestling coach Charles Parker is right in saying there are no minor sports at Davidson, only non-subsidized ones. The fact remains that subsidized basketball and football will continue to reign at Davidson in publicity and prestige. The other sports that exist without subsidization will remain "the other sports."

RAIN, RAIN, GO AWAY (Staff Photo By Davidson)
Roger Clark splashes away after taking the baton from Howard Boyd in the distance medley relay.

Whittle, Cindermen Seek Revenge Over Catamounts
By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson track coach A. Heath Whittle will be trying to show his son that father still knows best this Monday when the Wildcats meet Western Carolina and Carson-Newman in a tri-meet. Whittle’s son, A. Heath

Catfish Place Third In Tourney As Sailing Season Nears Finish
By ALEX GORDON
Sports Writer

After its first full year as a varsity sport, the Davidson sailing team is nearing the end of its season. The "Catfish" have participated in intercollegiate competition since 1965 but not on a varsity basis. In March of last year, however, it was decided that sailing should be added to the list of varsity sports. The team has since become a member of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA), which includes The Citadel, the College of Charleston, South Carolina, Clemson, Duke, Old Dominion, Virginia, and William and Mary. There are other such associations throughout the United States.

Dr. Hallam Walker, a professor in the French Department, sponsors the team. John Moore is captain of the team, and Jim Lee, another member of the team, has served this year as president of SAISA. Although the team has around twenty members, Walker pointed to senior John Pancake, junior Lee, sophomores Moore, Roger Powell, Bob Haggard and Lewis Riley, and freshmen Steve Erlandson, Dan Johnston, and Allen Lundy as the nucleus of the team. Organized practice is held on Wednesday and Friday afternoons. However, the members try to get out to practice as often as possible. Throughout the year Walker has tried to get as many boys as possible into the meets. According to both Walker and Lee, the most important factor in sailing ability is experience. Lee added that along with this experience must go a great deal of patience, especially in lake sailing, since the wind is always shifting. He also commented that it is often very difficult to pace yourself to avoid panicking and hurting your chances in the race.

The sailing team has the longest competitive season of any sport at Davidson. In fact, it actually has two seasons. The first one lasts through the fall up until December, while the second season begins in late February and runs officially through late June. This year, though, the Wildcats will probably stop competition as soon as the present term ends. During the school year every member of SAISA sponsors an invitational regatta to which all members are invited, and each year one of the invitationals is designated as the "Spring Sailing Championship." Two weekends ago Lake Norman was the site of the championship. The Wildcats skipper and the crew. The A and B teams race as many times as there are teams present, so that each boat in the regatta is used by each team. The race usually follows a one mile, triangular course. The first side of the triangle (referred to as the weather leg), is upwind. This initial leg serves to spread out the fleet and provides possibly the greatest test of skill during the race. The next leg is across the wind, at which time each boat usually maintains the same position relative to the others. The final leg is downwind. The racesare scored under a low point system, with three-fourths of a point awarded for first, two for second, three for third, and so on. This year the Catfish have generally finished third in their SAISA regattas. The highlight of the season came March 1 at The Citadel Intersectional when the Wildcats placed second in a field that included the SAISA teams, Georgia, and Georgia Tech. Whittle Jr. is head track coach at Western Carolina, the same squad that won a narrow victory in the eleventh annual Davidson Relays last Saturday. Western Carolina's Catamounts edged Pembroke State by one-half point, while Davidson followed Cumberland for fourth place. It marked only the third time in the history of the Relays that Whittle’s Wildcats have not claimed their own title. Davidson won the 440-yard relay and the shuttle hurdle relay, while taking second in the mile and 880-yard relays. Tom Rogers took third in the long jump and fifth in the triple jump.

Despite the kindred feeling that must exist between two sets of Whittlemen, revenge will be on the minds of Davidson's Cats. Not only did Whittle see his son's team sweep past Davidson in the Relays last week, but Tuesday he saw Kim Piersol sweep past Whittle’s own track record in a triangular meet with Furman and High Point. Piersol broke the record for individual points in a single meet on the Davidson track, set by Whittle in 1920. Furman, paced by Piersol, won the meet with a total of 93 points to Davidson's 53 and High Point's 33. The only first place for Davidson was in the shot put where sophomore Steve Kirley took the honors. Kirley also finished second in the discus. Doug Hill won a second in the pole vault for the team's first points in that event this season. Hill has started practicing with the team in recent weeks and his progress has been called “very encouraging” by Whittle.

The Relays Saturday were plagued throughout by rain showers, hindering both the individual and team efforts and cutting down on the attendance. Less than 100 students, according to an unofficial estimate, turned out for the event. Because of the rain and the resulting slow track conditions, no meet records were set. Appalachian’s Clayton Deskins was the only double winner in the event, taking the long jump and the triple jump. The meet came down to the last two contestants in the last event, the pole vault. Western Carolina’s Tommy Jordan leaped 13-6 to edge favorite Harold Lilly of Pembroke to give the Catamounts their half-point decision. West Georgia finished a distant fifth behind Davidson, followed by Appalachian, High Point, Catawba, Carson-Newman, Mars Hill, Presbyterian, and Elon. Atlantic Christian, Emory, Berry, and WNC-C failed to score.

Following the tri-meet Monday, the Whittlemen have just two meets left, the North Carolina State Meet for all state colleges and the Southern Conference Meet. The state meet will be held in Durham during Mid-winters weekend, while the conference meet will be held in Fort Eustis, Va. the following weekend. Although Davidson has no real chance of taking the conference or state meets because of the heavily subsidized competition, Whittle feels that the Wildcats will make a good showing. “We're improving as the season goes along. The young members of the team are beginning to get used to college competition and the meet conditions. If everyone does his job, we'll do all right."

Furman’s Piersol Sinks Davidson

Furman’s Kim Piersol proved to be a one-man wrecking crew, a solo act, the singular attraction, or whatever one chooses to call him after seeing the fantastic trackman in action. Piersol, in a tri-meet with Davidson and High Point Tuesday, racked up a total of 26¾ points, enough in one meet for a Davidson cinderman to earn his letter for a season, while leading his Paladin team to a sweep of the meet. Piersol took first places in the 100-yard dash, the 220-yard dash, the triple jump, the long jump, and the high jump, while anchoring a leg of Furman’s winning 440-yard relay. Such feats aren't new to Piersol, though, as the recently-named All-American trackster has won very often. In fact, he recently finished fifth in the triple jump in an NCAA meet at the beginning of the spring track season. And that was before he had had time to practice. It is interesting to note Piersol never donned a pair of track spikes or participated in a single meet in high school.

Footballers Begin Spring Practice

Not all the grunts and groans of complaint coming from the area of the practice football field Tuesday afternoon were from ROTC students going to drill. Several may have come from Davidson's football team, which began its spring practice session this past week. “There is no position where we don't have an experienced man, and there are some good prospects from the freshman team. This could be the year for us.” Concerning the prospects for next year’s season, Smith is optimistic. “We should have as good a team as most of those in the conference. We'll definitely be better than this past season.” Smith also feels that the team will be greatly assisted by the most recent addition to the coaching staff, Turnley Todd. “Turnley gives us a balanced coaching staff. Now we have a defensive line specialist, an offensive line specialist, and coaches for both the offensive and defensive backfields. It’s a perfect set-up.” In short, it appears that everything has been moving well since the beginning of spring football practice. Except maybe the players.

Discover the “quick-as-a-wink” economy to be experienced at Vend-A-Wash

S. MAIN - DAVIDSON

Here it is! The do-it-yourself, do-it-right answer for cleaner car fans. And simple as sprinkling a pot plant. Sparkling pressurized water and detergent does the job . . . and you direct the whole operation with a magic wand. No splash or splatter! Controlled, concentrated spray lets you cut away that grease and grime in only minutes. And there's a handy lint-free towel dispenser . . . and a heavy-duty vacuum for those final touches. Fast, economical, thorough!

COIN - OPERATED - SELF SERVICE CAR WASH

For all your needs:

The Trekker — skillfully designed so that you can transform naturally from a dignified button-down dress shirt into a handsome casual look. In the first instance, you have a master's touch in executive attire. Then The Trekker takes on a casual mood complete.

Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist

John Mock & Son

Our 57th Year

Food - Fun - Relaxation

“NOW, ON THIS PLAY . . .” Head football coach Homer Smith explains how to run a play for spring practice.

Minutes For Only 25

We have potentially one of the best teams that has played at Davidson since I have been here,” Smith said.