Page Four January 31, 1969 The Davidsonian

Recruiters’ Successes Mixed; Response Excellent In North

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

Davidson’s student recruiting program has met with only partial success, according to its director, junior Gary Henschen. “Of the 30
original volunteers,” he said, “15 have followed through and reported on the results they achieved. That's not bad for a
first effort.”

Henschen said the program had fallen short of prior expectations in the recruiting of black students. “The guidance counselors at
predominately black high schools are anxious to help us out,” he said, “but all of them indicate that qualified black
students would rather attend local black colleges or northern schools.” Henschen noted that except for the recruiting efforts of Calvin
Murphy and Larry Slade in Charlotte, very little success was had in the recruiting of qualified black students.

Recruiting efforts in the North had met with excellent response, he said. “Although we aren't very well known in many
parts of the North, many students are familiar with our basketball record and are anxious to learn more about us.
The response in the North is very encouraging,” he said.

According to Henschen, the principal benefit of the recruiting program has been that it improved the school's relations with guidance
counselors. “Guidance counselors are extremely important to any recruiting effort,” he said. “By keeping them interested in us, we can
have an inside track on good prospects for years to come.”

Naval Unit Provides Alternative

By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Several Davidson students are presently participating in a little-known program known by the Navy as The Reserve Officer Candidate School.
According to Nelson Abell, a Davidson junior involved in the program, “The program will ensure that I can join the
Navy; yet, it will save me the problem of waiting to get in Officer Candidate School and therefore be susceptible
to the draft.”

The program is organized under the direction of the Charlotte Naval Reserve Unit. No training is required in the ROTC
program during the college year, although the members of the program are encouraged to drill for the equivalent of three
hours each week with the Naval Reserve Unit. “However, each participant is required to attend a summer session at Newport,
R.I. both before and after his senior year,” Abell said. The result is that each participant receives a commission as
an ensign, beginning a three-year tour of active duty.

Abell noted that ROTC students should begin processing applications for the program during the latter part of their sophomore year.
“Members of advanced ROTC are ineligible,” he said. Other Davidson students presently involved in the program are Keith Sykes and
Gary Hemric. John Giles received a commission under the program last year.

GARY HENSCHEN ... stiff competition

He said that the program's next phase would involve recruiting high school juniors in the spring. When asked about the
recent proposal that a professional recruiter be hired, Henschen said he was strongly in favor of such a step. “It
would be a tremendous boost to the recruiting effort,” he said. “Students simply do not have enough free time to
do a topflight job and our admissions officials spend all their time in reviewing applications and dealing with alumni.

“All the top Northern schools have professional recruiters, but they have adequate funds to finance them. A professional recruiter would
have to receive a salary equivalent to our other administrators, but if we could afford one, it would be well
worth the price.” He added that recruiting by students was worthwhile and should be continued in any event.

Ramagli Favors Pershing Rifles

By ROBERT ELLIOTT
Staff Writer

“I think ROTC is a good program - too many people knock it.” Thus freshman Howard Ramagli explained his attempt
to organize a Pershing Rifle drill team at Davidson. “I guess you could call this my own crusade to improve
the ROTC program here at Davidson,” said Ramagli. “A drill team would not only add to the prestige of ROTC
here, it would definitely be an asset to the entire college community.”

Ramagli explained that those in the Pershing would be chosen from those in the junior class on down, preferably those
who have had experience with close order drill. “If only 16 people showed interest in this program the ROTC Department
would back us with rifles and other equipment,” said Ramagli. “Maj. (Frederick C.) Brigham said he would serve as staff
adviser. This is if Col. (Frederick B.) Outlaw allows me to organize the program.”

“Since most people here at the college are opposed to involuntary ROTC, I don't think the college will offer any
financial help,” Ramagli said. “A lot of the financial burden of uniforms and transportation to parades and drill meets would
have to be carried by the members of the drill team.”

“The group would march at half-time of football games, parades, and drill meets with other colleges,” Ramagli said. “The drill
team could decide itself what kind of maneuvers it would perform.”

Bridge Players Win Tournament

Eight Davidson students who won top spots in the first annual Davidson Duplicates Bridge Tournament January 21 have been offered
berths in the upcoming Regional Collegiate Bridge Tournament to be held in Charlotte on Feb. 20. Ronny Brown and Martin
Brackett, the north-south champions, and Tommy Phillips and Toby Westmoreland, the east-west winners, will be joined by Joey Saunders and
John Yurkutat, the north-south runners-up, and Brody Brown and Joe Scales, the east-west second place pair.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, January 31
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room “Natchez Trace”

Saturday, February 1
7:30 p.m. Hungry I: Morrison Room “Natchez Trace”
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Chicago, IL. Davidson vs. Iowa

Monday, February 3
Chambers B-3 Durham, N.C. Morrison Room
7 p.m. Investment Club
8 p.m. Freshman Basketball: Davidson vs. Duke
8 p.m. Movie: “Two For The Road”
8:15 p.m. Charlotte Opera: Ovens Auditorium “Don Pasquale”

Tuesday, February 4
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium Dr. Charles Bechert, Prof. of Politics, Catholic University
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Morgantown, W. Va. Davidson vs. W. Virginia

Wednesday, February 5
8 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Two For The Road”

Thursday, February 6
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Fine Film: Love Auditorium “Blood of a Poet”
8:15 p.m. Basketball: New York, N.Y. Davidson vs. Dayton

Friday, February 7
3 p.m. Wrestling: Durham, N.C. Davidson vs. Duke
3 p.m. Swimming: Atlanta, Ga. Davidson vs. Emory

Scabbard & Blade Taps 9 Seniors And 4 Juniors

Thirteen advanced ROTC students have been tapped for membership in Scabbard and Blade, military honor society. Criteria for membership is
the exhibition of leadership both on and off the drill field, according to senior Joe Norton, president. Seniors tapped were
Bill Anderson, Bob Apgar, Sam Aycock, Dan Dean, Fred Lowrance, Tony Orsbon, Andy Ratchford, Bob Reid and Sam Taltman. Also
tapped were juniors Jack Crumbley, Steve Klein, Dan Herd and Sterling Abernathy.was not successful, guidance counselors were glad to have
their students exposed to a college student discussing college admissions. “Even though we haven't done as well as we would
have liked,” Henschen said, “we have made a respectable start.”

1. Would you favor:
(a) Coeducation
(b) Coordinate girls’ campus
(c) Stay the same — i.e., all male
(d) Undecided

2. If you favor (a) or (b), what procedure would you prefer:
(a) Merge with an established girls school
(b) Accept female students under present admission procedures

3. Are you familiar with the proposed 5-Year Plan?
(a) Yes
(b) No

4. Do you favor:
(a) Implementing the 5-Year Plan
(b) Implementing a similar plan with modifications
(c) Rejecting the plan altogether

5. Do you favor admitting larger numbers of qualified minority group students?
(a) Yes
(b) No

6. If you favor admitting female students, by how much would you be willing to enlarge the present enrollment to
accommodate them?
(a) By 100-499
(b) 500-999
(c) 1000 or more
(d) No increase

ANSWERS
Students Faculty
124 27
156 16
64 8
23 3
124 8
141 30
175 35
139 17
158 20
61 11
253 38
45 7
25 4
72 14
79 2
18 1

FINAL QUESTIONNAIRE RESULT
Here are the results of THE DAVIDSONIAN’s poll on the admission of female students and minority group students, as reported
initially in last week’s issue. The 6-part questionnaires were submitted Jan. 21 to the entire faculty and to the some
375 students who voted in the SGA’s Chambers lobby polling.

Social System Attacked At Commission’s Forum
By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

The Commission on Social Patterns held its first open meeting last Saturday and spent most of its time listening to
attacks on Davidson's fraternity system.

(Staff Photo by Weems)

COLLEGE BOWL TRIAL HEATS
Contestants race for the buzzer.

College Bowl Aspirants Pressed For Answers
“What infirmity afflicted the Hero Of Human Bondage?”

Y’ Money Spent On Tapes, Loans
By PAUL ROWLAND
Staff Writer

The YMCA Cabinet met and decided how to spend a $3500 “Emergency Fund” Jan. 23. The money will be used
as a loan for land development, a special tape series, and a small fund for unforeseen needs.

The largest allocation, $2500, will be used as a no-interest, long-term loan to the Davidson Development Corporation which has been
helping Davidson residents, who could not otherwise afford it, build homes. The corporation will develop another 28-lot area with the
YMCA loan and monies being paid back by an earlier project on Griffith Street.

“Encounter tapes” will be purchased with $300 of the fund. According to Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, the tapes are designed to
make people more aware of the nature of interpersonal relationships and to improve them. Pledge classes, dormitory halls, and other
campus groups will be allowed to use the tapes, said Woodmansee.

The remaining $700 will be reserved as a “contingency fund,” according to Greg Scott, head of the YMCA Emergency Fund
Committee.

“What was the personal name of the last Emperor of China?”
“Who composed ‘Die Meistersinger’?”

These and hundreds of other questions have been directed at candidates for the GE College Bowl for the past two
weeks. Coach Charles E. Lloyd, assistant professor of English, has used the questions to select 12 finalists from more than
100 candidates for the four positions on the team and two alternate slots.

“I think we'll make a good showing; we have some awfully well-informed people,” Lloyd said. He and the other members
of the College Bowl committee, composed of C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, Russell A. Strong, director of
public information, and Lloyd, hope to select a tentative team by Jan. 31.

A college receives $3,000 for each appearance on the College Bowl and can remain for as many as five appearances
if undefeated. The Davidson team is scheduled to participate on April 6.

The twelve finalists are Dick Anderson, Robert Bryan, Steve Cross, Paul Fisher, Sam Gwynn, Berkley Latimer, Randy Phillips, Bob Reid,
John Reisner, Kent Rhodes, Tim Timmons, and Cary Tucker. However, Lloyd said, other students are still eligible to try out.

KITCHEN HELP WANTED
$2.25 per hr.
Apply HEREFORD BARN RESTAURANT
4320 Interstate 85 N.
Closed Sunday

3 pieces of chicken, slaw, potatoes
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken.
503 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, N. C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

with candy! with magnificent gifts! from THE VILLAGE STORE

A brief discussion of how formal studies leave little time for anything else was suspended when the topic turned to
fraternities. Eight Independents were on hand to express their views. No fraternity members attended, possibly because the meeting was announced
at lunch in the Student Union.

Todd Hobbie, who said that he had turned down bids after rush this year, claimed that fraternities monopolize social life.
“I think the system puts students in an unfair position,” he said. “We have to choose between no social life
and embracing an exclusivist system. I think there should be a social system that encompasses the entire student body. The
administration should take the initiative and produce change.”

Berkley Latimer pointed to fraternities as a failure of the structure of Davidson. “The college has turned over facilities to
an admittedly discriminatory system. The system dehumanizes fraternity men; they allow themselves to become unaware of the problems of the
Independents and the college as a whole.”

“Independents feel a little bitter because we've had the short end of the deal,” added John Reisner. “When the fraternities
tell you to go to hell, then what can you do around here, especially if you don't have a car?”

The committee asked for suggestions on future policy. Committee member Bayard Miller said, “I don't think that we have to
work under any assumptions, either that the fraternities will go or that they'll stay. All possibilities should be explored.”

Newly elected SGA Vice President Tom Opie suggested that a system based on dormitories, like the system at Wake Forest,
would be ideal. “The Residence Hall Association should handle the problem,” he said. “The RHA’s major role is to overcome
fragmentation. I would like to see the dorms as the basic social unit. Of course, major renovations, lounges, and other
overall improvements would have to be made.” Opie and Hobbie agreed that the present fraternity buildings could be used for
eating clubs.

Chairman C. Shaw Smith closed the meeting by saying that fraternities will be a large, but not the only, part
of his committee's work. Four more open committee meetings are scheduled for weekends before May: Feb. 7-8, Feb. 28 -
March 1, March 28-29, and April 11-12. Anyone with anything relevant to say is urged to attend a meeting, committee
members said.
