The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” — Marshall McLuhan

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. Address correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON Editors-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1969

When Reason Fails

So where do students go from here? Research, consultation with faculty members, a survey and finally a proposal by a student committee, then weeks pass while the faculty committee deals with “more important matters.” Then after having had the proposal and report for weeks, the faculty committee consents to listen to what the students have to say. Then more delay while the proposal is considered behind closed doors and a “confidential” paper is circulated among the members. The student committee is called back in and presented with what purports to be a “compromise,” but the compromise turns out to be a total loss in the student column. That’s what happened with the student proposal to change the present policy on scholarship students on cars, the change that brought by far the greatest student applause and support in the student government campaigns. “Going through channels” has always been the call on this campus, and “Be reasonable.” But it looks as if the channel has been closed up and the second imperative disregarded. So where do students go from here?

Less Than Courteous

In case you haven't heard, the entering freshman class next year may be a good bit smaller than usual. As of the middle of this week just over 200 students had made deposits, with the deadline rapidly approaching. We think that we have discovered a part of the reason. Last weekend, in at least two cases, prospective freshmen were escorted to the freshman dorms by a member of the administration staff and then dumped. In both cases the students were left in the trust of an unsuspecting freshman, with the staff member’s request, “Help him get settled and show him around.” The admissions office had made no arrangements for the housing of these prospective students, and the freshmen left in charge had to hunt for vacated rooms to house the students. The very apparent inconvenience left both of these high school students with the impression that they were imposing and that, therefore, they were unwelcome. In the meantime the admissions officer left, reportedly to help show around some basketball prospects. In another case, a third prospective freshman was given the impression that the admissions office would find him a ride to the airport Saturday afternoon so that he could catch a plane to New Jersey. At the last minute he was able to find a ride, thanks to the efforts of a few freshmen. These were not the first cases of mistreatment. And, after all this, the admissions office can’t understand why less than the desired number are making their tuition deposits for next year. It is very probable that a little more interest on the part of the admissions staff would cure the problem at least partially. On the part of a number of prospective students it appears that the first impression has been the lasting one; it’s too bad it has been so poor in so many cases.

A Lesson From The North

“Several years ago the school decided to concentrate on admitting and keeping more black students as a long-range goal. Once they were in, it agreed (under some student pressure) to set up a special program in black studies. “But new problems arose: black students felt like guinea pigs instead of students at Cornell; they wanted more control over black studies; they felt the school’s treatment of them was racist. And groups of white students better known in many quarters as ‘jocks’ felt the university was going too far out of its way to cater to its handful of blacks.” Were it not for the name of Cornell in this quotation, it might be taken as a description of events at Davidson five or six years from now. It is not difficult to imagine the sighs of relief from many associated with the college that only six black students are enrolled here, especially when one sees the disruption wrought at other schools. But Davidson will finally come to admit more black students, for a Christian liberal arts school cannot serve just white middle class society: it must serve all. And when the time comes, perhaps soon, that the proportion of black students creeps above one percent, the question we want to ask is, will Davidson be prepared? If the future continues like the past, the answer is no. The DAVIDSONIAN Report of April 18 made it clear that the college had not prepared for the first Negro students, and that they were left to themselves in a way that can only be termed callous. Let the story of Cornell stand as a warning, lest the college move into a new venture with its eyes closed and suffer the unnecessary consequences.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Readers Attack Column, Denounce News Reports

To The Editor:
May I compliment you on the editorial restating the paper's policy for publication of letters to the editor. To include “good taste” as a criterion for publication is an example of responsible editing. May I, at the same time, hope you will scrutinize the writing of your own columnists using this yardstick. The closing section of Robert Pyeatt’s column of April 11th was not only offensive to good taste but also an example of irresponsible and vicious journalism.

Elizabeth G. Smyre
Gastonia, N.C.

Taylor Lambasts ROTC Rationale

To The Editor:
I hate to appear to be joining in a chorus of inane chants which have become dull precisely because of constant repetition, but I feel that continual pressure must be exerted to put ROTC on a voluntary basis at Davidson. We hear the tired old argument that ROTC helps students for it teaches something important and useful and freshmen should therefore be required to take it because they don't know what they would be missing. One might, with the same logic, argue that we should require all freshmen to go to Alaska and see the plight of the Eskimo children there, for such an experience would be much more rewarding educationally. Other arguments have been bandied back and forth for a long time. I would just like to say that it is ironic that...

Lane Questions Subsidies

To The Editor:
I would like to respond to the arguments set forth in Mr. Sands’ letter in the April 4 DAVIDSONIAN. The publicity associated with the basketball program is at least in part a value. While among certain groups such publicity has rather strong negative connotations (and this influence should be weighed along with any asserted benefits), surely Davidson is better known among “the general public” for having a talented basketball team. However, I think the value of such recognition for a college should be put in the context of the quality of the institution involved. Because an institution is well known in the public media does not affect the basic quality or educational integrity of that institution. Thus, the value of such publicity is somewhat qualified when assessed in terms of its contribution to those ends. Furthermore, the argument from publicity is tenuous to say the least at the point of claiming a direct relationship between successful athletic teams and a truly heterogeneous student body (i.e. heterogeneity being much more than simply a function of geography). Such a relationship has yet to be explicitly demonstrated. Finally, an attempt to portray the athletic program as a moving force in the racial integration of the school when that integration is so minimal is self-defeating. It is deceptive to evaluate subsidization itself in terms of economic efficiency without delineating the purposes and goals to which that efficiency is aimed. Is it publicity? Success in terms of games won? Again the discussion of this particular policy must be put in the context of what Davidson as an educational institution is and should be about. Only in that light can the illegitimacy of the subsidized program be established. Economic efficiency alone is not sufficient grounds for such legitimacy. The grounds for the connection between a subsidized athletic program and Davidson’s uniqueness are very unclear. In the first place, there is a significant number of institutions of higher learning which have subsidized athletic programs, so that such a policy is hardly unique. But beyond this, I hope the issue of Davidson’s uniqueness or conformity will be raised on a more significant level than whether it pays its athletes or not. In general, I would like to see the discussion of this particular policy (and any other policy) related to the broader ends which it serves within Davidson College as an educational institution and the functions which Davidson as such plays within the larger society. I find it ironic and disappointing that within an institution with a proclaimed Christian commitment so much time is spent discussing athletics or resolving student in-fights and so little time spent on systematic consideration of social phenomena such as the Vietnam War (it is still going on) and the opposition to it; a racial situation exploding in violence almost daily and the white racism which has substantially created that situation; a generation gap dramatized in family and university disorder; the problems of cities built on economic and technological efficiency which subordinates human values; the economic, social, political, and cultural impact organized technology is having and will have on our society; and, above all, the pervading ethos, value structure, and power relationships in the society which lead to an allocation of resources in such a way as to constitute a fundamental cause of many...of these problems as well as a primary obstacle to their solution. Robert Lane '68 Chicago, Ill. Should any professor in any other department complain to Dr. Spencer that only by dragooning freshmen into their classes without their choice could the department survive, Dr. Spencer would tell that professor that he had better return to his office and make his courses more palatable. Why should the military receive special exemption? The fact that Davidson alumni have been exempted from ROTC during World War II (my father was one) makes our situation even more absurd. The use of the letter from parents to exempt freshmen from ROTC is not nearly adequate. No freshman has to take a course in any other department just because his parents didn’t write the dean. Furthermore, the idea that a freshman can make an intelligent decision about ROTC without being given a chance to see what ROTC is all about, especially at a time when, getting ready for college, ROTC is one of the last things on his mind, is ridiculous. As for conflict with parents on having such a letter written, I cannot emphasize, but I have heard that such a problem does exist, to what extent I do not know. As a sophomore, I am taking ROTC for the last term. Despite my high respect for some of the military men in the ROTC Department, I must say that I have not enjoyed the experience, that now I just don’t want to be bothered with classes or drill, and I want to spare the Class of ‘73 and beyond from having to share my experience if they don't want to. John E. Taylor ’71 Davidson College

B.C. _ We BEEN CARRYING ON EXPERIMENTS

To The Editor: Last week, the April 11 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN arrived, and I read it as always and put it down with the usual sense of frustration. I'm moved to express some of the dissatisfaction I've felt with you. First, after four years of faithful weekly reading, I haven’t the foggiest notion of what has happened or is happening on your campus. I realize you do not write for parents, but should you sound like a student house organ? I have travelled in many towns and in many states and have made a hobby of reading local newspapers. Your news items read like inside jokes, and while it is true that any writer who wants to be read writes for a specific audience, it's also basic that the good writer assumes, even at the risk of repeating himself, that his reader knows nothing about the subject being written about. This point remembered would certainly be helpful to befuddled parents at home and to many of your student body as well. This is not to say that I sell your local readers short. Quite the opposite. Davidson students are big boys; they are mature enough to hear more than just the information and ideas they like to hear, and they are not hearing them from your paper. The good newspaper is an abrasive to the establishment, but it also gives the establishment a voice, thus providing the reader perspective and a chance to form his own opinion, rather than have it premasticated for him. When a reader finds too much feeling and too many words for the amount of information presented, he suspects that the writer didn’t know too much about his subject to begin with. (It is a curious paradox about THE DAVIDSONIAN that the news items are highly opinionated; the only facts to be found are in the editorials.) To sum up my complaint. For the period I have read you, you have been crusading when you should have been reporting. The result is that instead of helping the causes you quite justifiably support, you have only confused some of us who might have helped you. Lucile M. Slade Jacksonville, Florida

April 18

To The Editor: All you have to be is about half human to realize the difficulty of being a Negro today, or ever. The same goes for being anybody. This realization was absent from the comments of Messrs. Brown, Williams and Parks in the April 18 Report. Allowing Brown this statement that he taught himself everything he knows, no wonder his view is so infected and his favorite word is “bullshit.” James Parks, no fool, expressed well the problem of self-integrity in a sea of white. But he doesn't acknowledge this as a white problem in a sea of humanity. There is no sanctuary for some poor little human trying to be his best self in a ridiculous world—not even black skin. I go by the mind, not the color. Simply being black, or human, is no defense against the sin (yes) of clouding your eyes with tons of bitter eye- ing white minds—and black minds. You might try that, while you're cleaning your righteous revolutionary guns. Because I have a lot of mental company. Your big problem, guys, is inside yourselves. That's the truth about us all. That's why we make enemies of each other—to justify the war we feel inside. Not to be patronizing, if you really want equality, don’t let the clinches of weak men keep you from being your strongest selves. You don't even have to punch anybody. Quit fighting yourselves and join me in fighting our mutual stupidity. Mrs. Linda B. Wallace Davidson, N. C.

By Johnny Hart

I DON’T SEE ANYTHING...