Page Six

TOM HENDREN HEADS HANDBOOK

Hendren To Edit Handbook

Junior Tom Hendren, newly-elected editor of the Wildcat Handbook, said this week he has not yet named his new staff.
He was elected Dec. 6 after two earlier attempts to hold the election were thwarted by a lack of candidates
and a lack of communication between the SGA Board of Elections and the Publications Board, which nominates publications candidates. Defeated
in the election were two other juniors, Allen Lewis and David Branch. Hendren got 38 votes, while Branch polled 15
and Lewis 10. The election was limited to juniors.

January 10, 1969

The Davidsonian

Wilson's Policies A Result Of Christian Beliefs--Link

Exploring the relation between Woodrow Wilson's Christian faith and his politics, historian Arthur S. Link yesterday described much of Wilson's
progressivism and foreign policy as a development from the President’s Presbyterian and Calvinist backgrounds. As Wilson's religious beliefs moved from
the rather stern Calvinistic pietism to which he had been exposed in his family and at Davidson and Princeton, the
President's political beliefs followed. In 1906, Link said, Wilson was maintaining “Christ was not a social reformer.” But by 1916,
Wilson was saying it was more important to save society than the individual. It was also in the 1916 campaign
that Wilson advocated programs that were “nothing less than a vision of the modern welfare state,” said Link, for in
that year Wilson for the first time began viewing the government’s role as one of protecting the underprivileged.

Link is writing a definitive biography of Woodrow Wilson. A professor at Princeton University, he was described in his introduction
as a “dyed in the wool Democrat.” Wilson was one of the few politicians, said Link, whose political beliefs followed
his religious beliefs. However, in a question and answer period after his address, Link said Wilson would not be listed
as a fanatic. “He had a tendency, but he tried to keep it under control... He always had a self-critical
capacity, even when he was a boy.” Link also rejected the thesis that Wilson was rigid and inflexible, citing numerous
legislative compromises the President made during his first term (1913-17). The historian attributed Wilson's unbending attitude on the ratification of
the League of Nations Covenant to the President's stroke and subsequent isolation.

Wilson's strong moral upbringing left him a man “incapable not only of outright corruption but of subtle corruption when he
knew strings were attached,” said Link. He at one time risked the Democratic nomination by telling William Randolph Hearst, one
of the famous yellow journalists, to “go to hell” when Hearst offered Wilson his support. Christianity served both as a
guide and as a consolation for Wilson. He felt he was always under a God of majesty and sovereignty, the
Lord of history and nations as well as individuals. And it was in reading The Bible that the dejected President
found consolation after the Senate's second defeat of the League Covenant.

Wilson hated war passionately, said Link. Although not a pacifist, Wilson may have questioned the long-standing Christian idea of the
“just war.” The President considered aggressive war as nothing less than “organized murder,” and “burned with shame” at the thought
of the United States’ involvement in the Mexican War. When the United States finally entered World War I, it was
because Wilson had decided that American entry was the only way to end the war. The nation had remained neutral
as long as possible in order to play the role of mediator, as Wilson saw it. The United States had
a mission to the world in Wilson's eyes. Foreign policy was not to be used for material aggrandizement, but “to
fulfill God's mission to mankind.” America was to be God's redemptive force on earth, aiding the spread of democracy and
Christianity. During the question and answer period Link compared some of Wilson's statements to those of the late President John
F. Kennedy in their high moral tone.

Insurance Plans Get Investigation

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

Davidson's fraternities are considering the purchase of insurance for their house employees. According to Assistant Dean of Students James J.
Terry Jr., the project is still in the planning stage. Approached by housemothers on the subject of improved compensation for
fraternity personnel, Terry said he did some preliminary study on the matter himself. He then consulted the 12 fraternity treasurers,
who will make the final decision on what insurance plan, if any, will be used. The final decision will not
be made, however, until all bids have been received.

Hood Norton Dies

Hood Norton, who owned Norton's Barber Shop on Main Street, died Monday night in Charlotte after a severe cerebral hemorrhage.
Norton, who was 73, had operated the shop for over half a century. His son Kenneth Norton was a partner
in the operation. Services were yesterday afternoon at Greenville Tabernacle AME Zion Church, of which he had been a member.

Terry said. After the bids have been received, the committee will choose from four or five plans, he said. The
plans themselves vary in cost, but more importantly, they vary in payment procedure, Terry said. Most plans require that all
12 houses take out policies, to ensure that the best rates can be obtained. One of the plans makes it
possible for the fraternities to pay individually, thus giving each house the option on taking out the insurance. The policies
would be taken out for housemothers and kitchen staff, said Terry. They include life insurance, accidental death or dismemberment coverage,
weekly disability payments for accidents and sickness, hospitalization, and other medical benefits. “Costs are not prohibitive,” Terry said, “but the
costs are there.” He went on to point out that the expense of the plan was a problem which each
house would have to face. Both Terry and Interfraternity Council President Bobby Vagt agreed that the insurance plan could be
a big step toward solving one of the biggest problems on Patterson Court, the shortage of house help. “We need
increased benefits,” said Vagt, “to keep the people we have now and to attract others. This program would be a
good start.”

Student Complaints Yield Dividends; Slater Promises Improved Services

Student dissatisfaction with Slater Food Service in the College Union cafeteria has brought about a Slater promise to improve the
service. Business Manager Robert A. Currie, in response to student protests about the food service, wrote a letter to Clarence
E. Koester, Slater vice president, threatening to terminate Davidson's contract with Slater unless food service was improved. Koester wrote back
promising a study group and reforms in the service. Klaus Kleeberg, Slater resident manager, has already instituted several new services.
These include sneeze guards at the salad tables and on the meal lines, plastic glasses, chocolate as well as plain
milk, soft drinks, and a new ice machine to replace garbage cans formerly used to serve ice. Kleeberg expects the
cafeteria to be reinspected in the near future, and he has said that there should be no trouble getting an
“A” rating, according to the Health Department inspector.

Currie’s letter, dated Dec. 14, was the result of the cafeteria's coming under heavy student fire after it received a
“C” rating from the State Board of Health. A student committee suggested several improvements in the cafeteria service, including more
variety and better sanitation. Kleeberg has asked that a formal student food committee be set up to work with him
in aiding the service to student requests. Koester proposed a study group composed of himself, William Wentz, a Slater district
manager, and Kleeberg from the Slater side. Currie will represent the college on the group. Wentz and Koester are expected
to visit the campus later on this year to inspect the cafeteria. Koester said in his letter that he had
been under the impression that the Davidson operation was well received by the students and “had good stability.” Koester also
said that he was very much distressed by Currie’s intimation that the college might be forced to terminate its contract
with Slater.

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
BIFF FINE

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Copy Editor:
JOHN PANCAKE

Cartoonists:
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Managers:
TOM MORRILL
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Contributors this week:
Jim Philips, John McLean, Robert Elliott, Cecil Burney, Bob Wallace, Norwood Poland, Danny White, Bill Lineaweaver, Rob Krehbiel, Bobby Ambrose,
Ed Shoaf, Steve Roady, Charlie Knighton, Paul Rowland, Steve Cross, Chris Bickley and Russ Merritt.

Elections Schedule

Office
SGA Pres.
SGA V. Pres.
Editor, THEDAVIDSONIAN Editor, Quips and Cranks Editor, The Sr. Miscellany. Honor Court (2 per class): Regulations Court (1 per class)
Freshman Adviser Pres., Social Council Class Senators (3 per class) YMCA - V. Pres., YMCA Sec., YMCA YMCA Pres., Treas.,
Elected By SGA Senior Class Jan. 21. SGA Junior Class Jan. 21. SGA Senior Class Jan. 21 Each class Same
Class Jan. 21 Sr. Class Senior Class Jan. 22 SGA Senior Class Jan. 21 Each class Same Class Jan. 28
SGA Senior Class Jan. 28 SGA Junior Class Jan. 28. SGA Soph. Class Jan. 28 SGA Soph. Class Jan. 28
Elected from Date Sr. Class Senior Class Jan. 21 Class Senior Class Jan. 21 Each class Same Class. Jan. 21

Filing deadlines for all elections are midnight, the preceding Tuesday. Candidates may file with Frank Murphy in Duke 133. Runoffs
are on succeeding class days. All elections require a majority to elect. All classes listed are the rising classes.

Job Fair Is Jan. 16

The Summer Opportunities Fair will be held Thursday in the dining hall of Chambers Building from 2 until 5:30 p.m.,
according to Tate Sterrett, student director of the Placement Office. Over 30 camps, newspapers, manufacturing concerns and business firms will
have representatives to talk to interested students. Information about jobs in foreign countries will also be available.

“We have never had a formal program for summer placement in the past. This year we intend to give the
student an opportunity to talk to representatives of various companies about summer jobs,” Sterrett said. There will also be a
display of literature from companies which were unable to send representatives, Sterrett said. Job interviews will be held in the
Union throughout January for summer and postgraduate placement, according to Sam Boyte, assistant director of the Union. During the afternoons
there will be open interviews.

Frueauff, Shell Fund Will Benefit Library

Grants from two foundations—one of them a $50,000 grant to aid the new library fund drive—have been received by Davidson.
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced today that the Charles A. Frueauff Foundation had made the grant toward the new
multi-million dollar library. The other grant, representing $1,500 from the Shell Companies Foundation, was announced last Monday.

The Frueauff gift will help the college meet a challenge grant of $500,000 by Edward H. Little of New York,
a longtime benefactor of Davidson, on the condition that the college raise $1,500,000 in matching funds for a new library,
Spencer said. “We deeply appreciate this gift from the Frueauff Foundation, which comes through the interest of Mr. Harry Frueauff
of Tallahassee, Fla.,” he said. “The new library is the number one item on our priority list. We must construct
a building adequate for the long-range future.”

The Frueauff Foundation specializes in grants for health programs and for college buildings and equipment, according to a foundation spokesman.
Davidson hopes to begin construction on the library in 1970.

The college has received a Shell grant every year since the assist program was started in 1958. This year the
grant came in three equal parts of $500 each. Grant No. 1 is for any institutional use which the president
determines. Grant No. 2, for professional development of faculty members, will be administered by Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston.
Grant No. 3 “for additional professional development of individual members of the physics faculty,” will be supervised by Dr. John
Hopkins, chairman of the Physics Department.

Artist Series To Present National Players’ Orestia

The ancient tragedy “Orestia” by Aeschylus will be presented by the National Players in Spencer Love Auditorium at 8:15 p.m.
next Tuesday. The National Players, an operation of the non-profit University Players corporation, has been on national tours every year
since its founding in 1949 at Catholic University’s Speech and Drama Department. The tragedy has been arranged for the modern
stage by Leo Brady and is directed by Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P. The Artist Series will be open to
the public.

Clytemnestra’s son, Orestes, whom she has exiled, is sent by the god Apollo to avenge Agamemnon's death. Orestes obeys but
incurs the wrath of the Furies, who pursue him to Athens, where he is tried and barely acquitted before the
goddess Athena. The National Players, whose repertory includes only the works of such great playwrights as Aeschylus, Shakespeare, Shaw and
Moliere, has performed not only all over the United States, but also in Europe, the Arctic Circle and Asia.

TRYOUTS BEGIN

Try-outs for “Right You Are,” the next major drama production, began this week in Hodson Hall. One of the school’s
few coed activities, the plays usually attract a capacity audience (Staff Photo by Davidson).

Heyward Turns Draft Card In

By DICK ANDERSON Asst. Managing Editor

“I couldn't just hide behind my 4-D deferment, so I turned in my draft card.” That was the gist of
what Nat Heyward, ‘68, had to say about why he turned in his draft card last November. Heyward, a leader
of the student group working for the integration of Johnson's Barbershop last year, is presently attending San Francisco Theological Seminary
in San Anselmo, Calif., and had a 4-D, ministerial deferment.

“I don't really know if I'll be prosecuted or not,” Heyward said from California in a telephone interview. “In fact,
the government has kind of undercut the significance of my action because the Supreme Court has ruled that ministerial students
are not subject to the Selective Service.” Heyward said that he did expect to leave the seminary to work in
the black community of Palo Alto, near the seminary, and that this might make him subject to prosecution.

“The fact that I had a 4-D meant that I didn't have to deal with the Selective Service,” Heyward said,
“and I decided to apply for conscientious objector status. But when I realized that CO status is exclusively for educated,
affluent, white persons who can talk the draft boards around, I began to have more and more personal upheaval, and
finally about a thousand of us had a candlelight ceremony in which we turned in our cards together.”

Heyward hopes to become a minister of some kind, but plans not to go straight through seminary. Instead, he will
participate in social action programs. San Francisco Theological Seminary is a small Presbyterian school approximately 20 miles north of San
Francisco.

Tapes, Tape Decks Stolen From Cars In Campus Lots

There were a number of stereo tape robberies on campus parking lots during the months of November and December. In
early November tapes and a tape deck were stolen from the car of junior Johnny Lientz. The car was parked
in the fraternity court at the time. A car belonging to junior George Johnson was parked next to Belk Dormitory
when seven tapes were taken from it before Thanksgiving. A forced entry was made into the locked car of senior
Frank Spence through a window in early December. The car was in the parking lot behind East Dormitory. On Dec.
7 tapes, a tape deck, the rear speaker, and the gear-shift knob were stolen from the car of senior Tom
Phillips while it was parked behind Little Dormitory.

In addition to tape thefts, students reported thefts in Watts and Little dormitories last Sunday. Senior Sam Davis said a
radio, a stereo, two electric shavers, two suitcases and two jackets were taken from his room on first floor Watts.
An overcoat and a stereo were reported missing from first floor Little. A student reported that he saw two people
carrying objects out of Little Sunday night and followed them to a car. He said he has given both a
description of the car and a partial license number to the Davidson police.

Cheshire (Continued From Page 1)

...seemed to me to be a cliquish organization not entirely responsive to the student body. “I thought the Senate was
a place where students should be able to bring their ideas and gripes which the senators would study and put
in effect if need be. I am of the understanding now that any project or new idea can be implemented
through individual initiative on the part of the students. The Senate has opened up and students can do things with
its authorization without being a member."

Cheshire said that he really didn't have any projected goals in mind for next year’s Senate. “The Senate ought to
do what it did this year. It acted as a clearing house for student ideas by listening to student opinion.
As such, you can't project ideas for it.”

(Continued From Page 1)

...directors for the station. Other people who are working on the project are freshman Scott Keeter and sophomore David Cook,
program directors; freshmen Terry Hirst and Phil Leonard, publicity directors; sophomore Jimmy Wright, business manager; and Earl Lawrimore and Grover
Meetze, administrative advisers.
