Page Four October 24, 1969

The Davidsonian

Cats’ Tracks
By: RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

Neil McGeachy: The Newest Face

There just aren’t many schools these days that have a former All-American coaching for their basketball teams. Particularly if he
was an All-American in football. In keeping with the Davidson tradition of either being one up on everyone else, or
else being several behind, our fine institution has joined that extremely exclusive clique of colleges; and now has none other
than a real, live, legitimate football star and Atlanta Falcon cast-off eyeing the future of its basketballers.

Actually, it’s not as bad as all that. Neill McGeachy was indeed a gridiron star at Lenoir Rhyne, making several
all-something teams, but that came only after he had proved his worth on the hardcourt. And before deciding to change
from knee pads to shoulder pads McGeachy left his mark on Lenoir Rhyne and Carolina basketball. He led his teams
to consecutive regular season and tournament championships while averaging over 20 points a game each season. Not only the local
press, which understandably plays up the home-town heroes, but also the opposing fans heaped plaudits on him, the ultimate of
sports glory.

And, continuing the All-American success story of this preacher’s son, McGeachy upon graduation returned home to his old Statesville High
School and, shades of Gil Thorpe, won the conference title with an 18-5 record and advanced to the district finals.
And, three years later, here he is as an assistant coach for the powerful Davidson basketball team.

It may be that so much success can go to a guy’s head. Or maybe that he won’t know what
to do with bad luck. Or maybe even that such a record can transform a nice guy into a conceited
S.O.B., but it didn’t affect Neill McGeachy.

“It’s trite to say that basketball or sports are my life, so I won’t.” McGeachy said. “However, the very fact
that I’m coaching shows that I’ve got a close association with it. There are a lot of other things I
could be doing I suppose, but I’m coaching basketball.”

There’s not much that’ll upset McGeachy. His calm, relaxed manner is a refreshing change from previous occupants of his desk.
“I don’t see any point in getting excited over trivial matters,” he concludes. “All that gets you is an ulcer.”

There had been rumors that Davidson had worked out some kind of a deal with Statesville High that brought Mike
O’Neil to Statesville as head coach and McGeachy here. “It’s a fallacy to think of it as a swap at
all,” McGeachy said. “Actually, my assistant had quit so there was an opportunity for Mike to come to Statesville; and
it logically advanced me to Davidson.”

McGeachy was chosen by Terry Holland for several reasons. First, he has a good knowledge of the game and gets
along well with the players. Second, he has a good personality for recruiting, a very necessary quality for an assistant
coach. And, he has an appreciation for the hard work necessary to work from high school coach to an assistant
at Davidson. It wasn’t especially an interesting move. For me it was the best possible way to decide it, and
I get along well with Neil.

Cats Lose ‘Best Game,’ Meet Bulldogs For Title
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

For want of a goalie, the game was lost. For want of a penalty kick, the goal was missed. For
want of a good penalty kick, a scoring opportunity was lost. For want of a score, an offense was lost.
And for want of an offense, a game was lost. And all because of a foot in Charlie Heiner’s back.

That about sums up the outcome of the best game that the Davidson soccer team has played this season, a
3-2 loss to powerful Belmont Abbey. The Foglemen played on even terms with Abbey most of the game, at times
outshone the fourth-ranked small college soccer squad. The Cats actually led Abbey 2-1 midway through the third quarter before the
Crusaders took advantage of some bad (for Davidson) breaks. It was then that Davidson’s premier goalie, Heiner, caught a stray
foot just below his kidney, sending him painfully to the sidelines.

Heiner’s replacement, Steve Culbertson, had played goalie last year, but since the start of this season had been the most
prolific scorer for a Davidson team that had scored through and through. In fact, Culbertson had scored most of the
time at center forward.

(Staff Photo by Ramachandran)
CLEAN STEAL
Robin Gray blocks a Belmont Abbey pass.

Top-Ranked Teams Fill Tough Basketball Schedule

The Davidson basketball schedule for the 1969-70 season marks the Wildcats out to improve on last year’s 27-3 record and
third national ranking. Davidson will play 10 games away from home, including games either at or near Charlotte, plus the
Southern Conference Tournament. Among the teams the Wildcats are scheduled to meet are St. Joseph’s, Virginia, Wake Forest, VPI (whose
team last year beat Davidson), and South Carolina, certain to be rated in the Top Ten this year.

The 1969-70 schedule:
Dec. 3 – Furman at Davidson
Dec. 6 – Michigan at Charlotte
Dec. 16 – at Richmond
Dec. 19 – at St. John’s
Dec. 22 – Georgia at Charlotte

Basketball Practice Begins For Promising Freshmen
By JIM THOMPSON
Sports Writer

While the football team roars toward the still-untested freshmen. As is true of all college basketball teams, the future of
Davidson basketball depends on the ability of the school to recruit top-notch players. The freshmen include:

Rick Brown, a first-team All-Star guard who averaged 24 points a game for his high school last year, will be
playing the point for Davidson’s offense. According to Neill McGeachy, Brown’s defense and leadership abilities will greatly help the team.

The most highly recruited player for Davidson is Graham, an all-star from Iowa, who averaged 29 points a game in
high school. At 6’3”, he is one of the tallest guards ever for Davidson, and has the potential to become
one of the finest shooters.

(Trick Photo by Lyle)
Picture shows nine of the five freshmen stars.

Another promising player is a center who, according to the coaches, could be the surprise player of the team. Borak
was a leading rebounder for his Fairfax, Va.High school team Derwin Cholak, a 6'5" forward from Meadville, Pa, averaged 22
points and 16 rebounds a game in high school. He has a very good outside shot. The scholarship boys can’t
do it all alone, however, and have to rely on other freshmen who are dedicated enough to sacrifice themselves and
give their time and energy to sit on the bench. Among the non-scholarship players are Jim Brown, Rollie Sumwalt, Seaton
Taylor, Bill Alexander, Odell Kerns, Randy Ely, Mike Deese, Dennis Watson, and Paul Caldwell. Unlike most Wildkitten teams, this year's
edition will have no superstar. The coaches, however, are looking forward to a good year, despite a rough schedule which
includes two games against the UNC freshmen.

Almost as many goals as the rest of the team combined. “Naturally it hurt us, and hurt us badly,” coach
Harry Fogleman said. “We were weakened both in our offensive and defensive play without Culbertson in the line and Heiner
at goalie. Up to that time, the team had been playing extremely well on defense. Belmont Abbey is the best
team we've played this year, and we actually had a chance to beat them. Each individual player for us was
playing his defensive position perfectly.” Fogleman had devised a special defense to stop Abbey’s high-scoring All-America candidate, Joe Betts, and
it obviously worked. Betts, who had scored 19 points in nine games for the Crusaders, managed only one goal, and
that after Heiner was injured. The Cats used a 4-3-3 defense with team captain Cliff Patterson tailing Betts man-to-man, following
him everywhere he went, even in the huddles. Robin Holcomb, Gray, and Skip continually harassed Betts and his mates, speeding
up the Crusaders' goal. However, Culbertson, the team’s best shot, was back at goalie, so another lineman took the kick—and
missed.

“I can't say that I'm at all displeased with the loss,” team captain Patterson said after the game. “It's our
best game yet and a sign that we're improving. We've got a young team (only Patterson and Randy Carter are
seniors) and are still inexperienced in some positions, but we're getting better. As a matter of fact, I'll predict that
we're going to beat The Citadel this Saturday,” Patterson concluded. The soccer team, with the game against the Bulldogs tomorrow,
will have their biggest game to date this season. Despite their 2-4 record so far, the Wildcats can clinch a
conference championship berth in Washington by beating The Citadel, Outlaw College, and the Abbey.

By A. W. TURNER JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson offense suffered because of the defensive strategy, but the sacrifice was almost worth it as Bill Horton drilled
in one goal and an Abbey forward who prefers to remain anonymous kicked in the second before the game ended.
After Abbey tried to pack back the fame, Davidson was presented with a golden scoring opportunity in the form of
a penalty kick in front of the goal. However, Culbertson, the team’s best shot, was back at goalie, so another
lineman took the kick—and missed.

One of the newest members of the Davidson athletic department is no stranger to most students here. Upon his retirement
from the army in June, Colonel Frederick B. Outlaw became Davidson's first business manager of athletics. For the past several
years, Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson athletic director, has been overloaded and has needed additional help in the athletic department, and
so Outlaw has been welcomed with open arms. And his work started immediately this summer. When former head basketball coach
Lefty Driesell resigned last winter, a crisis developed. Driesell had managed and received all profits from his summer basketball camp
held annually here on campus, and when he moved to College Park, a considerable amount of pressure was put on
Davidson officials. Such confusion resulted that it influenced Driesell’s replacement, Larry Brown, to quit. Finally, Driesell was paid a settlement
and the college took over management of the camp. But the basketball camp was not the only summer use of
the school’s facilities. “We had the Southern Junior and Boys’ Tennis Championships here,” Scott said, “and the government-sponsored Project Opportunity
was here this summer, and we have the only swimming pool and the largest tennis court system around here. With
all the requests for the use of the facilities, we just had to get someone to manage them.”

(Staff Photo by Ramachandran)
ON THE MOVE
Cliff Patterson dribbles past Abbey defender.

Now Supervises Sports Facilities

“During the school term, that is Colonel Outlaw’s responsibility as business manager,” Scott continued. “But during the summer, his primary
responsibility is the management of summer camps.” Outlaw said he had been offered the position three times before finally accepting
it just before the spring term ended. Last year, the varsity basketball team voted a special award to Outlaw as
the team’s number one fan. Outlaw is a native of Birmingham, Alabama, and attended Birmingham Southern College. He served in
the South Pacific during World War II, and later in Puerto Rico and Korea before coming to Davidson College. He
served as head of the R.O.T.C. department here until this year.

(Staff Photo by Davidson)
REVIEWING THE TROOPS
Outlaw watches Davidson demolish Richmond.

SHRUDE M. F. HOLDEN CO.
CHARLOTTE’S NO. 1 Boutique
209 Independence
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

The Hub
FASHION for Men Was Never More IN.
See the new arrivals in double-breasted Suits and Coats from HUNTER HAIG
80.00 to 95.00
others from 65.00 to 110.00
Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist
John Meck & Son
Our 57th Year
