The Davidsenian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO inevitability AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO OCTOBER 24, 1969

Et Tu, Agnew?

“Baltimore has produced more losers in the past year than any other American city: the Colts, the Orioles and the
Agnew.” —from the Raleigh News and Observer—

Unless you are accustomed to watching the evening news, you probably missed Vice President Agnew’s address Sunday concerning the Vietnam
Moratorium. The story made the papers Monday morning, but in most cases it was buried rather deep in the national
news section where only editors read. The speech, as usual, was the Agnew angle, but in this case it bears
some attention.

In his address before New Orleans Republicans, Agnew seemed to be issuing his ‘From The Bench’ report, though missing a
great deal of the significant action. And he lacked Crosswhite’s subtlety, too. In remarking on the Moratorium, he went to
the defense of the Nixon war policy, not by reinforcing its good points, but by lashing out at the organizers
of the nationwide protest as “an effete corps of impudent snobs who characterize themselves as intellectuals.” He stated his opinion
that the Moratorium was brought on by a prevailing “spirit of national masochism.” Not satisfied with the evaluation, he generalized
on the youth of the nation saying that “subtlety is lost and fine distinctions based on acute reasoning are carelessly
ignored in a headlong jump to a predetermined conclusion.”

The Nixon Administration spent most of Monday bracing for the wave of protest to accompany this statement and issuing their
own statement to contradict the wayward vice president. But it is this “acute reasoning” of the vice president which is
defeating the administration’s efforts to effect some sort of credibility in the national population regarding its honest efforts to end
the war.

Agnew said that the nationwide protest was “a reflection of the confusion that exists in America today,” but neglected to
realize that the confusion has grown out of a disillusionment produced by the administration’s “Closed Ear” policy. In his statement
that “the lessons of the past are ignored and obliterated in a contemporary antagonism known as the generation gap,” he
fails to note that a number of Americans are looking to the past with disappointment and losing hope that the
present situation will produce peace in the future.

“If the Moratorium had any use whatever,” he said, “it served as an emotional purgation of those who feel the
need to cleanse themselves of their lack of ability to offer a constructive solution to the problem.” Such an attitude,
without regard for the increasing sympathy with those in protest, is strangely similar to that of the mother, who when
watching her son’s high school band march by in the parade, commented that her son was the only one in
step.

A large part of America is still waiting for the openness which the Nixon camp promised during the campaign of
1968.

Cats And Dogs

Tomorrow's football clash at The Citadel shapes up as more than just the game that may decide the Southern Conference
football championship — if that’s not enough in itself. We refer to the references made to Davidson in a long
column in Charleston’s “News and Courier” last August. In his discussion of Davidson football, the executive sports editor of that
newspaper speculated on his projected decline of football at Davidson — which is certainly his prerogative.

What we object to is his indictment of the student body. In an offhand analysis of Davidson’s student make-up, he
speculated that Davidson had been taken over by those same “soft-bellied types” that had subverted all wholesome pursuits on other
campuses in the country, rejecting all self-discipline, hard work, etc. What he failed to note was that all except two
teams at Davidson compete without athletic scholarships, that the intramural program at Davidson involves a large percentage of the student
body, and that at least one intercollegiate team competes without a coach and buys its own uniforms. Meanwhile, the sports
editor’s own favorites at The Citadel field subsidized teams in even minor sports.

And if our figures are correct, when the two teams take the field at The Citadel’s Johnson Hagood Memorial Stadium
tomorrow, the Wildcats will face a team with double its number of football scholarships. It looks to us as if
Davidson’s program doesn’t reflect the totally professional aspect that The Citadel’s program does. And while we're instructing our Charleston colleague
in what to look for if he’s going to write about sports, we ask him to consider some of the
old high school slogans about sportsmanship in regard to his own darlings at The Citadel.

In an interview reported in Charleston’s Tuesday morning paper, Citadel head coach Jimmy “Red” Parker commented that this year’s edition
of Wildcat football was much tougher than in past seasons. But the former Fordyce (Arkansas) High School coach added, “I
don’t know how really tough they would be if it got nasty out there, like a near fist-fight on every
play. We'll find out Saturday because that’s the way we plan to play them.”

We're not advocating that the Davidson players take such a view of the game, but we are advocating that for
the good name of sports it is imperative that The Citadel’s Bulldogs have nothing to howl about after tomorrow’s game.
Go Cats.

“Elementary, My Dear...”

LETTERS

Colleges Must Take Lead In Peace Cause

To the Editor:

Only yesterday did I genuinely begin to consider the question of the university as a political force, when some professors
expressed apprehension at the direction the university seems to be taking. I do not see how the university proposes to
exist as an apolitical institution. A certain group of people easily move between positions in academic and government and move
positions in business. The research financing of the government influences the directions taken by the “free inquiry” of scholars. War
as a form of political force has used the university to train this force, often in compulsory programs. This has
been called a ROTC university to people in the use of Being apolitical is one political stance.

One might say that political involvement remains the question of the individuals participating in the university. This supposes that the
institution is an ideal organization which is something more than the individuals composing it. It also supposes that individuals can
achieve their political ends apart from organization. When a majority of the academy community seems in general agreement on such

Cary Charges That ROTC Is Intimidating Protesters

To the Editor:

An incident concerning the Vietnam War Moratorium has come to my attention which I feel should be presented to the
college community at large as a matter of vital importance. I am given to understand from reliable sources that during
the Moratorium some of the ROTC cadre took the names of Advanced ROTC cadets who participated in the Moratorium, and
that later some of these cadets were called before high authorities in the ROTC department and advised not to participate
in such events again. Quite frankly, this makes me want to vomit. This seems to be a blatant disregard of
the right of free speech and expression—enshrined in American tradition, and which the United States Army is supposedly obligated to
protect.

We are living in a college community, where discussion of varying views and presentation of different viewpoints, no matter how
unpopular, is part of the pursuit of truth to which we are supposedly dedicated, and a restriction on the right
of free speech is obviously a violation of the spirit of free inquiry. Members of ROTC are also human beings,
concerned with the welfare of others, and in doing this realize that it is necessary to understand what is going
on in the world, and viewpoints other than their own. They may even disagree with American policy in Vietnam—but is
this treachery? I think not. Do they have the right to do this, even if they belong to ROTC? Yes,
I think so.

Disagreement with American foreign policy does not mean that one is trying to destroy the United States—on the contrary, one
may feel that he is attempting to save it. Personally, I tend to disagree with the approach to Vietnam generally
presented at the Moratorium, (for rather complex reasons which are not relevant here), but I am sympathetic to some extent,
and no matter how violently I disagree I will always defend their right to their own opinion. People have a
right to their expression, and a right to express it whether they be civilians or ROTC cadets.

If the ROTC department continues along the lines of a secret police, I believe that rather soon there will be
no ROTC department on the Davidson campus — because the students, faculty and administration here are not going to stand
for such disgusting action. The ROTC department should consider carefully their courses of action. In certain respects it is an
asset to the college community, and it would be rather unfortunate if the department were forced off campus (though under
the circumstances certainly understandable). My purpose is to admonish, not to destroy.Norman Miller Cary Jr. ‘70 Davidson College

Men can vital questions as Vietnam, some political activity within the university seems justified, as long as those in disagreement
are not oppressed. If the academic community remained apolitical, it would be “la trahison des cleres.” President Nixon seems to
be willing eventually to reduce troop strength to about 200,000. That is not enough, I fear he believes—that he can
quell dissent through draft reforms, develop a professional army in Vietnam, and occupy the country indefinitely.

It has been said that university students are chiefly important to society today as potential consumers rather than producers. It
remains that they are important, that they have a common framework in which to organize (the university), and that they
will be heard. As CBS News remarked, an active minority can significantly influence policy. Not is to be gained by
sitting back with an inactive and possibly apathetic majority. The need for manifested concern probably will arise again in November.
I would like for Davidson College to begin to plan now. Suspension of classes is not necessary. The position of
the Nixon Administration on Vietnam is to be opposed, not the educational process. Let us begin to prepare.

Joe Jones ‘70 Davidson College

Brinkley Amends Report

To the Editor:

As the latest stage in my personal campaign to be accurately represented in your news columns, I wish to state
categorically that the second item numbered (2) “whether the South Vietnamese government is a desirable alternative to the Viet Cong”
is in no way representative of any criterion I discussed at the Moratorium and I regard the implication that I
used this test to condemn the war as personally damaging. If your reporter will check with others present, will look
at the original text I read which I still have, or consult the slightly revised version which may be reproduced,
he will see the inaccuracy of his summary of this point.

I did, in fact, in my third criterion ask “Does the war defend an established or morally preferable order from
actual or threatened destruction? Does the military intervention further constructive political and social purposes? Or more simply, do the acts
of war emerge from right intent?” I did not mention the Viet Cong in my answer and while I did
condemn all of the successive South Vietnam governments as not being established or morally preferable orders, I did not specifically
raise the question of how some morally preferable order might be established. I believe there will soon be circulated some
copies of my complete remarks and I hope those who judge me will do so on the basis of what
I said and not its misrepresentation.

Alan B. Brinkley Davidson College

Stranger Than ‘Naked’

This past summer an important literary work made its appearance and is destined to take its place among the great
creations of American literature. It is one of the truly significant novels to come along in many years, being completely
a product of our times. It is a book with impact, force, raw strength, written in utter abandon. I refer,
of course, to “Naked Came the Stranger.”

“Naked,” as many of you doubtless recall, made its debut this summer to rather mixed critical acclaim. A “New York
Times” critic said he wouldn’t recommend it to any dodo, or something to that effect. But the “Daily News” and
“Playboy” reportedly loved it. “Naked” came on as the result of a mass production line of 25 Long Island newspapermen,
most of whom work for “Newsday,” which I believe failed to review it. Each wrote one chapter, although some of
them had to be rewritten later because the writing was too good. When the opus was completed, the wife or
sister of one of the men, I don’t remember which, was engaged to pose for the rather suggestive picture on
the back cover and given the rather suggestive pseudonym of Penelope Ashe. She made the rounds of the less literary
publishing houses and induced Lyle Stuart to accept the volume as her own personal account of life in suburbia. Naturally,
it was an instant bestseller, and the well-endowed Ashe was hailed as the successor to Jacqueline Susann, an honor indeed.
And now there are 25 newsmen on Long Island getting rich. They claim that they chose the title for the
book because books with “naked” and “stranger” in the title seemed to sell better. Now they are planning a sequel
called “Stranger than Naked.”

The questions this raises about what has come over the American book-buying public are legion: do President Nixon’s Americans buy
these books? Doesn’t the pitiful writing and unimaginative, or sometimes imaginative, repetition of sex get a little boring after a
while? Just who buys all this pornography anyway? Looking back over the bestsellers of the last couple of years, it
seems that “The Exhibitionist,” “Valley of the Dolls,” “Myra Breckinridge,” “The Love Machine” and “Portnoy’s Complaint” were not flukes at
all. But they certainly should have been. There is nothing wrong with sex in literature, or even sex for its
own sake. But it is the shallow plots and balky styles that make the current generation of bestsellers objectionable.

What this adds up to is that in current fiction there is no longer a distinction between good writing and
bad writing, but between clean and dirty books. The situation obviously calls for the setting up of two separate bestseller
lists. A prospective novel would have to be evaluated for content to see which list it was eligible for. Then
the clean list could compete against the dirty list, which would not be much of a contest. But what if
the clean books won, stranger than naked.

Hey Sweatt and I are establishing a new campus honorary, called “Who’s That.” To be a member, you must have
a caricature done by Cullum Rogers which makes you look like Dracula’s brother-in-law with constipation, and the caricature must be
printed in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Dr. Fuller and Dr. E. F. Patterson are charter members.

New Literary Feature Invites Contribution

In next week's issue, this space will contain the first installment of a newly-created column on fine arts. The editors
of the column will be Tom Way and C. L. Cheshire, who have decided to entitle their weekly contribution “Column,”
for lack of a worse title. The main purpose of the article will be to attempt to stimulate, or at
least invite, the Davidson student to become aware of the contribution of the fine arts, i.e., literature, the graphic arts,
music, dramatic art and dancing.

Due to the cultural wasteland at Davidson, the reason for which some attribute to student apathy and others to a
lack of opportunity to enjoy high quality entertainment, the editors feel that a breakthrough is needed. The range of subjects
could deal with anything from the religion theater's activities to New York to the sociological overtones of music by the
Fugs. It is not intended to be an article, as some art columns seem to be, but a column that
will reflect what is going on in the cultural vein in the minds of Davidson’s students and professors.

Anyone from a freshman poet to the Chairman of the Chemistry Dept. is invited to submit works for publication. The
only criteria are that the work be original, contain fewer than 800 words, deal with a fine arts related subject
that is ‘now,’ and be considered to have some appeal to the Davidson student body. If you've been unusually complaining
about the poor quality of writing that appears in THE DAVIDSONIAN, this is your chance to submit your work for
publication. The editors feel that too much good writing is concealed by the Davidson student, while poor available writing often
serves as a weak substitute. If you’ve been anxious for the chance to have published an opera critique, opinion or
an art exhibit, or hopefully a work with a more uncommon, exciting subject, the opportunity now exists. Place the manuscript,
with your name, school, address, c/o “Column,” in THE DAVIDSONIAN box in the Union or give it directly to Editor
Way or Cheshire. As soon as a work is chosen for publication, the writer will be contacted, invited to add
any preparatory remarks which he feels necessary to the manuscript, and permitted to submit his personally finished copy of the
manuscript for printing. Such a practice will be the policy of “Column,” because the editors feel they should serve merely
as selectors, with each week's article centering entirely around the chosen work and its author.

The editors realize that “Column” is not going to create a giant revival in the “culturally disinterested pattern of the
Davidson student’s way of thinking,” (or evidence thereof); nor is “Column” going to serve as a mouthpiece for the few
flaming liberals badmouthing conservatives that clog up so much of the literary machinery around the College. The article will not
set the hamlet of Davidson ablaze with literary fire, nor will it keep downtown Davidson from folding up and dying
every Wednesday. However, it will serve as a first step, a possible breakthrough in our attitude toward the fine arts.
Hopefully, some sign of life—a few blades of grass or a couple of weeds will suffice—will sprout in our cultural
wasteland.
