be i Six October 3, 1969 Berry Picks Delts To Win MAC Flickerball Crown The Davidsonian Wildcat Harriers Train For
Opener By A. W. TURNER, JR. Asst. Sports Writer And to think that some David complain about s! Wi i
rise a Jim I ( turnit 6. ATO’s Charlies Brockwell, one of said I capt By BILL BERRY, Asst. Sport
Editor fe: f i i ! ATO V the best in the league. He has a strong arm and fairly
good speed, although he has put on a little weight in the couple of years. The top sophomore prospects are
Tim Groom and Paul Nelson, both of whom will definitely start. Other Phi Dells Randall Bill McCanamon, an ost choice
at defense week season, Waller & run Jim Wright. Romey Fisher leads at the tailback position, where his strong arm
is the point of attack. He will throw to a strong corps of receivers including Steve Williams, Theo Powell, Sammy
Fisher, Frank Gray, Dan Herd, Danny White, and Rick Saunders. The SPE’s should have just about equally strong offensive and
defensive units, since most players will go both ways. The stars in the backfield on offense will be Jim Cantrell
and sophomore Buzz Tarver, who will alternate between tailback and halfback. Both are very quick, with Tarver possibly being the
better passer. Joe Shibley and Clark to take first will not have players even Losing looks reflect at TE players
on defense are Kasiner Joe Lansing and ends Pat B. Berry. The only to fewest points of last season strong
once again if a rusher can be found. At present Billy Pierce is rushing but he will be unavailable after
the Lor troubleCertainly! Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

¢ett \ f A ; t t Afies ral of by > a t unavailable after Y if, start of
basketball practice. i, or bot T ear lia, i ) Ws ¢ ts an ) ) defe ¢ drills iting
tH) : : : is : ¢ T ‘ i itic team do rave athlet wut Wit hity rs ,
the team ill conferenc j l-di practice relay and other A beautiful bracelet*with a { a} ttled, 1 probably if
’ c n t indamental Stevens said in get organized es id Johnson and row. In addition, .h ained tha
been pleased back At tailback ney have David Russell] excelled in »xtr rader 3 playing ~ with the play of
‘the new birthstone for each member of the family. on She will cherish it forever. tron $eyp.50 he ee pion
(Ray. That Ey. ) ee Strand, Jody Turner, Ray Bruce Batton and Fred (Staff Photo by Davidsan) Sherrill’s Jewelry Swetenburg,
Allen Wood- Ourt. and also sophomore AND SOME DIDN’T = Davidson, N.C. = ard, Steve Roady ry Billy Barnhill. A
promising Frazzled frosh takes the easy way back. fl (e) }- Mije, and Tom Kast avi SON or ZO first
year catcher is Dave 20 ERE merece cue me a 2 Griffiths who will add = : na SE |
By KEN JONES have been stupid enough to hen something happen- assurance! to Davidson's NEW AND USED FURNITURE | Sports
Writer come here to a small school ed when I got to know ‘the strength behind the plate. mt “[
hated this place when with a questionable social campus and students better. Bob Meadows and Jim TO MAKE YOUR ROOM
MORE COMFORTABLE SEE =|) [ got here. I was thinking life. I really thought twice As the year goes on,
I think Trevathan are two upper- to myself just how could I about my decision. that the social scene will
im- classmen who supply a lot HOWARD & BRAWLEY FURNITURE : | prove and that I'm going to of leadership.
The infield i} really enjoy myself.” Was practically vacated by COMPANY ! LEARN TO DIVE | Ray Brown didn't distinguish
graduation, and freshmen { {| himself from many of like Bob Benton, Jack PHONE 662-1881 { : = ae i
his fellow freshmen in his Wilits Randy Ely. Rick Hal i A short course in Scuba Diving will soon be
t| first reactions to Davidson, ligan and Lyn Wagoner will 162 N. MAIN STREET, MOORESVILLE, N. C. ~])\ offered on
Davidson Campus. Use of SCUBA | particularly after the rainy have to fill the open posi- equipment and textbook included
with )} freshman camp. What he tions course, students furnish own mask, fins and }; promises to do later. how-
Coach Stevens is not mak , snorkel. = Hl ever, will certainly put him ing any prophecies, but he OPEN
9-8 All interested persons are invited to an Open meeting to be | Brown, for the uninformed- when the season
starts in held in the Blue Room of the Hs Ge Fr; Ieee le = se Fj Weight College Union
at 8:00 P.M. on ed, was the first freshman the spring. : eig ' Wednesday. For additional information call Charlotte
333- scholarship last year. He outs for pitchers are ahead. . e ’ U 5475 (Day) or JA3-4762 (Night). was
“heavily recruited by Perhaps the only things cp F ex-Wildcat coach Larry lacking now are a manager, en ae $20.
00 Brown because although an assistant coach (Major he’s only, 5'9" the Louisiana Brigham helped out last SCUBATEER DIVER TRAINING
sharp-shooter made All-State year), and an abundant bud- (Staff photo by Fel MONDAY = SATURDAY 1012 Sedgefield Rd. Charlotte, N.
C. 28209 and honorable mention All- get. In his fourteenth year TO THE VICTOR, THE SPOILS. y rele! : American.
as coach here, Stevens hopes Shibley chooses cake made by Mrs. Jon Regen
