The Thin Skin Line

Another tournament, another Bulova wristwatch. This seems to be what the Southern Conference tournament has evolved into for the Davidson basketball player. We blitzed our way through this year's three games even more forcefully than we did last season. Last week everyone seemed to consciously control their press statements so that it appeared any SC team could knock Davidson off in the tourney. No one wanted to speak the evident truth. After demolishing Richmond for our second victory, Huckel told me he was getting sick of hearing the repeated line that we weren't that much better than our SC opponents. "We're supposed to beat everyone badly and that’s what we'll do,” answered Huckel when asked if he were worrying about East Carolina.

In addition to the final scores, I enter as evidence to our strong control of the tourney the fact that the Davidson skins played in every game. Everyone knows the opposing teams can't be too good if the skin team gets to play. East Carolina Coach Tom Quinn complained that all he read about in Charlotte was how good Davidson was. After the game Saturday, a sports writer told me that was all Quinn could talk about. Just for wearing horrible-looking purple and white striped warmups, the Pirates should have lost on general principles.

The Wildcat club used the awards ceremony after the last game as an opportunity to give Lefty a new Thunderbird automobile. This was the first of several moves to keep Lefty at Davidson. Your guess about what he’s going to do is as good as mine. As my evident skin status discloses, I never have been able to figure him out. He could get in his T-Bird and drive all the way to College Park or he could stay and win the national championship next year. Whatever, I asked him after the game if I could drive his new car. He kind of shook his head and made some comment about the fact that skins don’t drive new cars. Maybe I can ride with Dave or Doug at the wheel.

As far as I was concerned the all-tournament team should have been the Davidson starting five. Doug, Jerry, and Mike were put on the first team while Dave and Wayne made the second five. This compliments the all-conference team released a week before which had Jerry and Mike on the first team and Dave and Doug on the second. It's my belief that possibly only two or three other players in the conference would have a chance to start on Davidson's team.

With the all-everything releases that have come out lately, I have selected the annual all-conference skin team for the 1968-69 season. There were many candidates in that there are always more skins around than shirts, but I believe I have weighed all the evidence fairly and come up with a viable crew. Several players who looked like pre-season picks lost out because they tried too hard, but better luck next year.

At the guard position, I chose East Carolina's Rickie Williams and our own Tony Orsbon, who incidentally is a repeat choice from last year's all-SC skin team. Williams is listed in the program at 6-2, 170 pounds but actually weighs close to 195. He's losing his hair but this doesn’t seem to affect his weight. He also has a tattoo on his left shoulder which says “Mom.” This alone qualified him for the honor. Tony made the team easily. With his shooting percentage dropping from a mark of four-for-four last year to two-for-11 this year, he took the honor in a breeze.

At the forward position, I found two deserving candidates, Don James of Furman and Richmond's Ed Surgan. After the all-skin team came out last year, Don must have been truly unhappy because after starting all last season for the Paladins, he worked hard this year and only got into eight games that I know about. That's what I call a real skin comeback. Surgan is listed in the Richmond program as a forward but this is where he fools everyone including himself because he plays the guard position during games. What clinched his selection was during the last seconds of our game with Richmond, when I was standing at the foul line minding my own business. He told me, “You really think you're tough, don't you?” I said, “No, but I've got a friend by the name of Steve Kirley who thinks he is.” You just don't ask a skin if he thinks he’s tough.

This year the center position was awarded to Walt Ivkovich of VMI. Known as “Iky” to his friends, Walt is one of the nicest guys you'll find on the court. In our game with VMI, he fell down after going for a rebound and hit his head, lost his glasses, cut his knee, and skinned his elbow. He got right up and apologized to Doug and Mike for hitting them with his arm on the way down. Iky hails from Aliquippa, Pa., and only being a junior, he shows real promise as a repeat performer. Furman’s Charles Selvy deserves an honorable mention award. Although a starter for the Paladins he pulled a true skin move in Furman’s last game with Richmond. With 21 seconds left and the score tied, he dribbled backcourt and Richmond got the ball and scored to win the game. Charles just might make it next year.

HUNTERSVILLE-FORD SALES AND SERVICE 875 6547

Rush Wilson Ltd. would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the WILDCATS for their SOUTHERN CONFERENCE TITLE and to wish them continued good luck in coming games. Hope everyone has a good semester break. Rush Wilson, Ltd.

POINT SYSTEM, INTEREST CRITICIZED

The Davidsonian March 7, 1969 Page Three

Wrestling, Rugby Mentors Cite Problems

By CON PARMAN Sports Writer (Second In a Series)

This weekend marks the conclusion of the wrestling season and the opening match for the newest team on campus, the rugby team. There will be no Davidson scholarship players competing in either sport. Coach Charles Parker draws a distinction between minor and non-subsidized sports. “You don't have any minor sports here, only non-subsidized ones.”

Parker sees several problems in the wrestling program at Davidson, but funds for equipment are not among them. “We have enough money for expenses, we are a well-equipped team. Our facilities are fine, but we do need a new mat which I've been trying to get for several years. It gets cut from the budget every year.”

The most serious problem facing the team is personnel. “We don't have a recruiting budget here and that prevents us from attracting some of the top high school wrestlers to Davidson,” Parker said. “I've never asked for a recruiting budget but we are going to need one soon to keep up.”

Since there are no wrestling scholarships, Parker points out that he has no hold on the wrestlers who do come on their own. “It's a lot of hard work and it takes dedication to be a wrestler. When a boy gets here he finds a lot of other things to do. If you're not paying him anything it's a lot to ask of him.

“Right now on this campus there are enough boys with wrestling experience that they could come down here and work out for three weeks and whip us. It's hard to keep one boy out if he isn’t getting a chance to wrestle.”

The two biggest problems drawing top wrestlers to Davidson are the difficulties of getting accepted and the lack of scholarships. “A lot of boys are scared off by the entrance requirements; they don't want to take three achievement tests so they don’t apply. They automatically get in somewhere else easier and get a scholarship, too," Parker said.

Although there are no wrestling scholarships, Parker points to the financial aid offered by the school as somewhat of an advantage.equalizer, “With the Parent's Confidential Statement the school gives out a lot of aid which lets boys stay here.” Parker said that the recruiting program of the football team helps in getting wrestlers to the school. “We talk to the same boys a lot of times. Our heavier wrestlers, like Frank Rader and Kerry Keith, are usually football players.”

“If I did have scholarships I would take seven or eight new boys in each class, to make a difference. Without scholarships you don’t know if you’ll get any wrestlers in a given year. Right now we have mostly sophomores and freshmen. If we do get some of the boys who seem to be coming, we'll have a strong team next season. As a non-subsidized team we're not going to get any better but all the subsidized teams of other schools are, and that makes it harder to stay competitive.”

Coach Parker also hit the unfairness of the point system on admissions policy. Under this system a coach can use some of his allotted points to get in a borderline student who might not otherwise be accepted. “As a Davidson graduate I don’t know whether I like this. But if the subsidized teams have points, so should the non-subsidized teams and all the other departments at school. An exceptionally talented musician should be given the same consideration as an exceptional athlete,” Parker commented.

The team’s schedule is loaded with subsidized opponents. The ‘Cats meet all the ACC teams but Virginia and Maryland and all Southern Conference teams. All are subsidized except North Carolina and Furman. All I’d like is a little aid in recruiting,” Parker concluded.

The newest team at Davidson is the rugby team, organized last fall by freshman Zack Mobley. The most interesting aspect of the organization of the new team is its club-like nature. Mike Lunn, a Richardson scholar from England, is coaching the team this year, but there are no plans to replace him next year. “As far as I know there is no one at Davidson qualified to coach a rugby team,” Mobley said. “Rugby is one of the rare games where you can play without a coach once you know the fundamentals and rules. The older players will instruct the newcomers.”

This year’s team is the first at Davidson and is operating without funds from the Athletic Department budget. Mobley explained that the team was organized after funds had already been allocated. Since each of the coaches is responsible for his own equipment and budget, the rugby team had to equip itself. The players contributed $90 for balls and each paid for his own jersey. Financial help has come from Union Activities Grant funds in the sum of $350. Mobley said that the team plans to submit a budget for next season and that $1000 should take care of financing completely.

The team uses the football practice field as its home ground. The players are putting up new goals since the football goal posts are 10 yards further apart than the 30-yard maximum length of a rugby field. Most of the team’s early difficulties have come from the general lack of experience on the part of the students. “We have about 16 to 20 for practices,” said Mobley. “At first we were unorganized; we had a hard time getting people to take practice seriously.”

“This year we have scheduled a lot of B teams and we should be able to beat them. Next year with everybody back we should be on the level of A teams.” Mobley arranged this year’s schedule in the same way that most rugby teams do, through correspondence with other clubs. The team has played eleven matches with the next home match slated for March 21 against Clemson. Hampden-Sydney, a tentative opponent, is the only school with a subsidized team. Although there are five Southern Conference schools with rugby teams, Davidson has been unable to schedule any of them. VMI is also in its first season of competition. Other conference teams are William and Mary, George Washington, and Richmond. Although there is no conference championship at the present, Mobley sees it as a definite possibility, especially if the Richmond coach, who doubles as president of the Eastern Rugby Union, supports the idea. “No doubt about it,” said Mobley, “The rugby team will sustain itself on a club basis at Davidson.”

Villanova’s Porter, Jones To Test Cats’ Offense In Preliminary Game

Davidson's high-scoring Wildcats, fresh from a very impressive smash of the Southern Conference tournament, meet another version of Wildcats tomorrow afternoon when they take on Villanova in the preliminary round of the Eastern Regionals. Villanova is possibly the toughest team that Davidson will have faced this year. The Wildcats (Villanova-style) are currently ranked ninth in the nation in defense, giving up only 42.4 points a game to their opposition. Therefore, something has got to give as Davidson, with no less than a scoring average of 101 points a game in its last eight encounters, puts its 25-2 record and national ranking up for grabs.

Villanova is led by Howard Porter, a third-team All-American pick for both the Associated Press and the UPI. Porter, a 6-8 sophomore, is averaging 22.4 points and 14.2 rebounds a game against tough competition. Backing up Porter is a 6-4 jumping jack, Johnny Jones. Jones has been averaging 19.8 points and almost 10 rebounds a contest. Jim McIntosh, at 6-7 the starting center for Villanova, has the unique distinction of having hit his last 14 shots from the field. McIntosh, who averages 6.7 points a game, hasn't missed a shot in the last two games for the Wildcats. The starting guards for Villanova are Frank Gillen, averaging 6.8, and Fran Hanlon, scoring at a 7.5 clip. Both are excellent ball-handlers that excel in getting the ball to Porter and Jones underneath.

The Wildcats boast a 21-4 record and a national ranking due to their defensive effort and the offense of Porter and Jones. Villanova has defeated St. John's in overtime, Princeton, NIT-bound Boston College, St. Bonaventure, and St. Joseph's, while losing only to North Carolina in the last minutes, Penn in a stall game, third-ranked La Salle, and Duquesne.

“You wreck’em — We fix’em”
MOORESVILLE Body Shop
131 East Moore Ave.
Mooresville, N. C.
We recognize Davidson Students & Faculty
Telephone 664-3345

Go to your bookstore. Find the Scripto display. Fill in a Mystery Tour entry blank with a Scripto pen or pencil. If you win, you win the most magical, musical, electrical, mystery tour ever put together. Fly to London in July. Spend a week digging England. Then fly to Paris to join the bus that will take you touring discotheques, beaches, boutiques, galleries, and castles all over Europe. College students only. A busload of people will win a second tour of Europe, like it’s never been toured before. Four weeks in Europe's grooviest cities. Bistros by night. Beaches by day. Wined and dined by Scripto. Join the Scripto Mystery Tour. Any Scripto writing instrument is your magic wand.

PENS AND PENCILS
THE STUDENT STORE
Davidson