(Staff Photo by Reardon)

HALL COUNSELOR, REVISED VERSION
Baker explains homework to Barium Springs orphans.

‘Big Country’ Highlights Weekend Without Soul
By JOHN ROWE
Staff Writer

Burch Mann's Ballet America, a company of young dancers, will present “Big Country” Saturday night at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium as the main attraction for what the Union calls a “non-soul weekend.” “Big Country” is described in their promotional literature as a “brilliant explosion of music and dance, a journey back across the land; a revisiting of America’s unbelievably rich and exciting heritage.” According to Walter Terry of the “Saturday Review,” the ingredients of this put-together include scenes that are fast and noisy, quiet and contemplative, shrewdly tender and religious.

Following the basketball game with George Washington Saturday afternoon, there will be an “American Folk Supper” in Chambers dining hall at 5:30 p.m. After the “Big Country” performance, there will be a cast party, free to the public, with music by the Ernie Bonner Trio in the Morrison Room of the Union. Tickets for “Big Country” may be obtained at the Union.

As the Friday night concert for Mid-Winters weekend, the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble will perform Feb. 14 at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Reviewing their December performance at Filmore East in New York, Billboard magazine (Jan. 11) labeled the Atco recording artists as one of the “most versatile groups around.” According to Billboard, they did top work especially in their famed version of “Whiter Shade of Pale,” which begins with the Bach instrumentation as Dorian Rudnyski on cello, Michael Kamen on organ, and Marty Fulterman on drums.

Two Students Directing Boys At Barium Springs
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

There are not many people who can be full-time students and raise a family of eight at the same time. Charlie Baker and Bill Williams, however, are trying to do it. As students, they are both Davidson seniors headed to medical school next year. Their job since November has been to serve as houseparents for a house of eight at Barium Springs Home for Children, a Presbyterian-affiliated complex of homes and recreation facilities about a mile outside Statesville.

“I think we are fortunate to have this opportunity,” said Williams, who served as a counselor at Barium Springs two summers ago. “We are the youngest houseparents here. Most of them are 50 years old or older.”

“Sure, we miss out on some things at Davidson, like the basketball games,” said Baker, “but we don't really miss them. During my four years at Davidson, this is the best experience I've had.”

The boys in their house are eleven to fourteen-year-olds with lots of energy and the normal problems of boys this age. “I'll never learn all those states and their capitals,” said one. “That barber really scalped me,” said another.

“We have all the typical parental problems,” said Williams. “You just can't have eight boys living together without a certain number of fights, skinned knees, and routine emergencies. With the help of the administration, though, I think we are adequate to meet these problems.”

Their duties include fixing breakfast for the kids every day and supper on Saturday and Sunday, doing the laundry regularly, and supervising the kids’ activities. One of them must be at the house from 2 p.m. until they go to bed every day, and each receives one day off every week and one weekend off every month.

“The kids really help us out,” said Williams. “They have certain duties, such as setting the table, cleaning the house, and washing the dishes. They are socially mature beyond their age. This takes some of the load off us.”

Their most regular duty is cooking breakfast. “Charlie worked as a cook last summer,” said Williams, “so he’s pretty good. It's really hard for me to get up though, because this is the first time in four years I've eaten breakfast regularly.”

Their study time is reduced considerably. “On an average night we get to study about an hour and a half,” said Baker. “We try to make them study as much as possible too.”

Baker noted one problem which is particularly bad. “One of the guys is a basketball player who is a lot bigger than me,” he said. Baker is five feet five.

Mother Williams and Mother Baker, as they are affectionately called by the kids, seem to be quite well-liked. “They’re okay,” said one boy. “They take us a lot of places. But they make us study too much.”

“They're not too strict,” said another, “We even throw biscuits across the table sometimes.”

Kaufmann Sees Crisis In Morality
By STEVE CROSS
Staff Writer

Dr. Walter Kaufmann, professor of philosophy at Princeton University, will deliver a Reynolds Lecture here Feb. 17-18 on “The Crisis in Morality.” At 8:15 p.m. Feb. 17 in the Morrison Room of the College Union he will discuss “The Birth Pangs of Honesty.” In assembly at 10 a.m. Feb. 18, “Existentialism and Responsibility” will be his topic.

Kaufmann is the author of six books and the translator or the editor of several others in the area of existentialism, philosophy of religion, and the thought of Nietzsche and Hegel. He was born in Friedburg, Germany, in 1921, and grew up in Berlin. He graduated from Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., in 1941 as a Phi Beta Kappa. He served with great distinction in the Second World War and later received his PhD from Harvard University in 1947. He soon secured a teaching position at Princeton University, which he still holds.

His books include “Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Anti-Christ,” “Critique of Religion and Philosophy,” “From Shakespeare to Existentialism: Studies in Poetry, Religion, and Philosophy,” “Religion from Tolstoy to Camus,” “The Faith of a Heretic,” and his latest work to date, “Hegel: Reinterpretation, Texts, and Commentary.”

By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

Dr. Charles Dechert, professor of politics at Catholic University in Washington, D.C., told his chapel audience Tuesday that the technological processes allowing rational organization of social problems attempt to work with nature rather than trying to dominate it, thus producing change organically. His talk was interrupted several times by scattered clapping and coughing in the audience. Several students walked out during the program.

Dechert stated that modification of any part of the results of the century, rather, the increasing ability of computerized systems to handle tedious organization of social data will enable men to move into more complex community-related jobs where there will exist a greater need for personal contact.

Among other applications of this cybernation trend, Dechert sees the possibility of the increasing personalization of education. He said he believes that the existence of the improved data techniques which are able to provide a wealth of personal information on each student will make this personalization possible.

Curbing Efforts Blocked
(From the Chronicle of Higher Education)

The efforts of Congress to deprive campus disrupters of federal financial aid have been sidetracked in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. While continuing to voice strong objections on principle to restrictive amendments that Congress attached last fall to its higher education package and its HEW appropriations for 1969, the department has virtually challenged the legislators to prove that it is humanly possible to administer and enforce amendments.

From an administrative standpoint, the appropriations amendment evidently is the most troublesome amendment. It states that “no part of the funds appropriated under this act shall be used to provide a loan, guarantee of a loan, or a grant to any applicant who has been convicted in court of general jurisdiction of a crime involving forceful disruption of a higher institution.”

On one of his final days as HEW Secretary, Wilbur J. Cohen fired off a nine-page statement calling on Congress to repeal the appropriations ban and to tone down the comparable passages in the higher education amendment.

Crews Is Chairman Of Court
Junior Ken Crews was elected Honor Court chairman last week by the Honor Court, and Pat Bray was elected vice chairman. Crews, who was also elected co-freshmanAdvisor two weeks ago, has been on the court for two years. He succeeds Bill Williams. Sophomore Herb Clegg was chosen recorder by the 12-student court. Chair- Fullerton on oboe, began classically before the entrance of Cliff Nivison on drums and lead singer Brian Carrigan and his good blues voice.” Folk artists Ian and Sylvia, who performed at Davidson two years ago, will give a concert on Saturday night of the Mid-Winters weekend at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Teacher Session Planned

Participants in the Liberal Arts Program for Teachers to be held at Davidson this summer will meet with their professors in the spring to plan their own courses. The program offers classes to enrich the liberal arts background of the public school teacher, as opposed to the usual courses in teaching methodology, according to Dr. William B. Hight Jr., director of student counseling and director of the program since it began three years ago. There will be two sessions, June 16 - July 8 and July 14 - Aug. 2.

“The courses are approved by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction and will carry full renewal credit for A certificates and graduate certificates,” Hight said. For the previous two summers, an opening convocation was held at the beginning of each session. This year there will be a convocation for both sessions on May 3 at 11 a.m. After lunch, teachers will meet with their professors during two periods (one for each session) to discuss and plan the courses they will take. Courses will include such liberal arts areas as sociology, ethics, linguistics, and literature.

“Last year's results have left us enthusiastic and eager to participate again in an intense confrontation between professors and teachers,” Hight said.

The Davidsonian
February 7, 1969
Page Three

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, February 7
3 p.m. Wrestling: Davidson vs Duke
3 p.m. Swimming: Davidson vs Emory
8:15 p.m. Movie: “Two For The Road” Morrison Room

Saturday, February 8
1 p.m. Freshman Basketball: Davidson vs. Wingate Johnston Gym
Afternoon Open Hearings, Commission on Extra Campus Responsibilities
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs. Richmond Johnston Gym
8:15 p.m. Ballet American Love Auditorium

Monday, February 10
8 p.m. George Washington Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Open End Union Lobby

Tuesday, February 11
10 a.m. Assembly Philanthropic Society Phi Hall
3:15 p.m. Freshman Basketball: Davidson vs. Kings College Johnston Gym
6:15 p.m. Free University Registration Union Lobby
10 p.m. Student Senate Morrison Room

Wednesday, February 12
All Day Martin Lectures
7:30 p.m. Leon Howell Christian Movement Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Wrestling: Davidson vs. Citadel Johnston Gym
8 p.m. “Fiddler on the Roof” Union Coffee House
10 p.m. “Fiddler on the Roof” Union Coffee House

Thursday, February 13
All Day Free University Registration
10 a.m. Assembly Love Auditorium
8 p.m. “Fiddler on the Roof” Union Coffee House
8 p.m. Movie: “Sound of Music” Morrison Room

Friday, February 14
All Day Free University Registration
8 p.m. Wrestling: Davidson vs. Guilford College Johnston Gym
8 p.m. Concert: “New York Rock and Roll Ensemble” Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Movie: “Sound of Music” Morrison Room

Voluntary ROTC Passes At Yale
DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The faculty of Yale College has recommended to the Yale Corporation, equivalent to their board of trustees, that ROTC students no longer receive credit for taking courses in the program. This recommendation is subject to renegotiation with the Defense Department of the school’s ROTC contract, as one year's notice must be given to change the status of ROTC.

“The primary consideration was practicality,” said Dean John A. Wilkinson, who is dean of the undergraduate school at Yale. “Formerly we required 40 semester courses for the Bachelor's degree. However, we recently moved to a requirement of 36 courses,” Wilkinson continued, “and since the Army requires two courses and the Navy four, we felt that there would be no extra hardship involved for the student.”

Wilkinson said that the re-evaluation of ROTC credit was part of a continuing process of looking at “professional” courses, including some in the Music Department, the Architecture Department, and physical education. “ROTC is essentially a professional course,” Wilkinson said, “and after we searched the faculty minutes for 1916, when our course was first brought in, we found that only a slim majority was in favor of ROTC while a strong minority objected for the same reasons we do today.”

The faculty resolution also recommended that the title of professors be taken away from the ROTC instructors, since these officers should not have the academic authority associated with professorships. ROTC has never been required at Yale. “ROTC is like singing in the Whiffenpoofs (the Yale glee club), a perfectly fine activity, but one that we don't think merits any academic standing,” said Dr. Arthur W. Galston, chairman of the faculty's course of study. The Yale Corporation usually accepts faculty recommendations on the subject of academics.

HATTIE’S
“Just up the road” to say “I love you” on Valentine's Day (February 14)
Send her flowers
Speak to her with flowers—a bouquet, a flowering plant or a corsage. Come in today and let us help you make your selection. We send flowers to Valentines anywhere.
SMITH’S FLOWERS
Cornelius, N. C.