January 24, 1969

The Davidsonian

SPORTS DESK

BOB DUNHAM

Page Four

Davidson Rugby: You Gotta Love It

What it looks like is the brand of backyard football you used to play with your kid brother, all tackling,
sliding, and generally fumbling around. What it sounds like is “professional” wrestling on television on Saturday afternoon, with the grunt
of a full body slam. It has more noise than a Hal Karate advertisement. What it is is rugby, and
it's one of the roughest sports going. It’s also the latest thing on campus.

Twenty-five students are now grouped together as a team, under the training of Richardson Scholar Mike Lunn and freshman Zack
Mobley, and without aid from the school, the team will open its 10-game season the first day of March against
North Carolina State.

The rugby story at Davidson is an interesting one, for it was the brainchild of a single student who, in
fact, had never touched a rugby ball in his life when he decided that Davidson needed a rugby team. The
credit goes to Mobley, a freshman from Durham, who carries enough weight to make up for the smaller men on
the team. Interested at first as a spectator at some of the Duke University matches last year, Mobley learned soon
after his arrival that Lunn had considerable experience as a rugby player in his native England and in South Africa.
After talking to Lunn and deciding that the idea of a Davidson team was feasible, Mobley called the first practice.
Today, three months after the idea was born, the team is preparing for a rugged 10-game schedule, prepared by Mobley
in a “rush job.” In his rush, he accomplished one thing Lefty Driesell couldn't: He scheduled the University of North
Carolina.

The team does not expect to win many games on the schedule, for its remainder contains Clemson, Duke, Virginia, South
Carolina, Hampden-Sydney, and Maryland. However, Mobley says that by the time the season rolls around, the team should be able
to run with any of them.

Rugby is right. The game is running. It is toughness and it is coordination. But the Davidson team has all
of these ingredients. Described by Mobley as a bunch of “frustrated jocks,” the team consists of both freshmen and upperclassmen,
large and small, fast and not-so-fast. But the whole team shares one trait, a love for the game that only
one of them has ever played before.

Lunn has been impressed by the quick learning of some of the players. He notes junior David Branch as having
“great potential” as a runner and tackler. Ed Dietrich, Mobley, Barry Hamil, and Worth Penick have all displayed promise. And
then there are the little men, John Sholt, Billy Mohr, and Russ Merritt. They all seem to bounce back in
spite of jarring tackles. They have to. The game is made for the rough. The game is like football, except
that there's no blocking and no pads are worn. No substitution is allowed and instead of holding onto the ball,
the game is coordination of running, passing (more of a lateral type pass), and kicking. The team has 15 instead
of 11, and the whole team involves itself in trying to score a try, or a rugby touchdown.

The story of the game is almost as interesting as the players. Tell it all began as a mistake. In
fact, in the early days of practice here at Davidson, it all looked like a mistake again. The mistake occurred
at Rugby School in England in 1823, when a lad by the unlikely name of William Webb Ellis picked up
the soccer ball and began running with it. This was a specific violation of the “no hands” rule, and it
almost resulted in Ellis's expulsion from the team. But his teammates, as interested in change then as 15 students are
now, decided to stick behind him. A protest rally for “use of hands in soccer” was organized, and soon Ellis
became a hero. Even the school later recognized his valuable contribution and placed a memorial stone in the school wall
in his memory. According to the inscription, the stone “commemorates the exploits of William Webb Ellis who, with a fine
disregard for the rules of football... took the ball in his arms and ran with it, thus originating the distinctive
feature of the Rugby game.”

Lunn, the would-be coach of the Davidson squad, is having a few problems trying to get his players to do
things the way Ellis did, but he seems optimistic about the future of the team here. The big problem has
come from the Athletic Department. The team has been unable to secure any equipment or funds from the school this
year because of budget limitations, but, according to Mobley, there is a possibility of financial assistance next year. Until then,
the team will finance its own way. Each player has purchased or borrowed shoes and the team has ordered jerseys
so that they can be presentable in their opener with State. Until aid comes, the team will go on desire,
but there seems to be plenty of that to go around. As Branch says, "You gotta love it."

Recruiting: An Involved Process

By RUSS MERRITT

Sports Writer

Recruiting in collegiate athletics has been called everything from the “name of the game in college sport” to a “very
necessary yet very bad evil.” Unfortunately, every college and university, in order to survive in the sports world today, must
join the recruiting race for the nation's best high school prospects. Davidson, of course, is no exception.

The individual programs of Lefty Driesell, the head basketball coach, and Homer Smith, Davidson's football mentor, depend heavily on the
success of their recruiting. Therefore, both coaches have been spending most of their spare time reading, studying, and sorting information
about hundreds of high school athletes as well as observing and making contact with several of the outstanding prospects.

On the wall in Homer Smith's office is a bulletin board above which is printed "Football Prospects." Hanging there are
cards with all the pertinent information about each Davidson football prospect. Smith is realistic about recruiting. “Our philosophy is to
find a boy who is qualified to meet the Davidson entrance requirements, and who will fit into our program. We
try to find boys for which Davidson is best.”

“Davidson, of course, is a very selective school, and this sometimes hinders recruiting,” Smith said. When looking for a potential
Wildcat footballer who would aid the program, Smith and his assistants look for a prospect that has “punch potential,” the
ability to run, catch, or throw well. “This tends to eliminate some effective high school linebackers and ends,” Smith commented.
“We try to find all the boys east of the Mississippi in about a 15-state area that are qualified student-athletes.
We then expose them to Davidson, hoping to get them at least interested.

“As for our recruiting method, we just let the prospect know every good thing about Davidson College. We try to
get the boy to know us, and through us to know Davidson,” Smith commented. Smith feels that student recruiting is
most helpful at Davidson. “I can pick a number of players on the varsity this year that we contacted because
of student suggestions.”

“We try to do the best that we can with the money and abilities we have,” Smith continued. “We've been
very encouraged so far this year with our recruiting.”

In Lefty Driesell’s office, there is no bulletin board of prospects, but you can be sure that in several notebooks
in his desk and stuffed somewhere in the back of his head are the names of hundreds of prep basketballers.

UCLA Asks Contest

“The UCLA athletic department has contacted the Davidson office requesting that...”the Wildcat basketball team schedules the Bruins next season. The
reigning national champions have asked Davidson for a home game, however, and the trip may not be feasible unless a
midway game can be scheduled for the trip to California. The Bruin squad will graduate All-American Lew Alcindor this year,
but will welcome back a host of present talent plus a high-rated freshman squad next year. “We consider around 2,000
prospects a year,” Driesell said. “Since we give only five scholarships each year, we can't afford to make any mistakes.
Therefore, we've got to be very careful and selective.” Driesell, of course, has had several outstanding years on the recruiting
circuit, including the 1965-66 season when he signed Mike Maloy, Jerry Kroll, Doug Cook, Jan Postma, Fox DeMottey, and almost
Charlie Scott. It has been theorized that basketball coaches recruit in cycles, going all out every third or fourth year.
Driesell, however, disagrees, “You've got to balance things out when you recruit. We've got a lot of boys that we're
interested in every year, and of course, we try for the best that we can get every year.” Driesell, however,
mentioned that “we need a center particularly this year.” One of the leading prospects, 6'10" Allen Shaw of New Jersey,
has expressed some interest in Davidson. Another outstanding potential future Cat is another New Jerseyan, Bryan Taylor, who scored 84
points in one game last year. “We try to see the good prospects play and to get the ones that
we want and that would fit in here,” Driesell said. “We just try to let the school sell itself. The
student body helps a lot in persuading a prospect to come to Davidson.” Like Smith, Driesell relies on students' suggestions
to a degree. “We look at boys from all over the country—just look at the squad now. We check out
most suggestions made to us by students, and if the boy qualifies academically and has the talent that we need,
we may contact him.” Several years ago, Driesell slept in the back of his car while on a recruiting trip.
Davidson has advanced a long way in athletic recruiting since then.

LONG NIGHT AT THE COLISEUM

There were moments for cheering for this Wake Forest cheerleader during Davidson's recent game with the Deacons, but the cheering
more often turned to frowning and fingernail biting. In the end, Davidson took the victory and the pretty Deacon cheerleader
felt the defeat. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

Wildkittens Attempting To Rebound After Dropping Two Road Contests

By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

After a strong start, the Wildkitten cagers have dropped two of their last four games, including an 83-73 defeat at
the hands of the VMI Freshmen last Saturday. One of the big reasons for the losses has been the absence
of Frank Clark and Gary Scibal. Both have been in the infirmary and neither played in the South Carolina, Wake
Forest, or VPI contests. Clark, one of the starting forwards, has been averaging 10.5 points a game and over seven
rebounds. Scibal saw starting duty in the early season and has been the number one substitute. In both losses, the
opponents appeared to be up for the game more than Davidson. “South Carolina was up and we weren't, it was
as simple as that,” said Doug Hill, starting guard. In addition to the spirit of revenge the South Carolina freshmen
held for their only defeat at the hands of the Wildkittens, fouls played a big part. Hill fouled out with
about three minutes gone in the second half and was followed to the bench by Lester Strong and Eric Minkin.
Strong called the game a very “ragged one, maybe because Clark and Scibal were out.” Hill termed it a very
“off and on” effort. The 80-68 loss was the team's first after six straight wins. Davidson could not maintain a
steady attack. “They've got a good, well-balanced team,” said Strong. “We needed one of our better games to beat them
and we just didn’t play it.” James Hyder, assistant to the admissions director, coached the squad until coach Jerry Conboy
arrived. The Wildkittens stopped the Wake Forest freshmen 94-76, behind Bryan Adrian's 44 points. Adrian hit on 14 of 15
free throws as he set the team’s season high for points and free throws. The VPI loss was “simply a
matter of being out-hustled and outplayed,” according to Hill. Although having a 10-point lead at one point, the Wildkittens could
not maintain it.

The “Kittens meet the Citadel freshmen in tomorrow night’s preliminary.

* * * Sporttopics * * *

In addition to his other honors, which include a recent naming to SPORT magazine's second team, All-American team, Mike Maloy
was last week named the Greensboro Daily News' Athlete of the Week. Quoting Coach Lefty Driesell in saying that Maloy
is “the best 6-7 player in the country,” Daily News writer David Lamm commented, “When Maloy has a bad night
he's good. When he has a good night, he’s superb.” Lamm specifically praised Maloy's defensive talents, saying, “Maloy doesn’t always
block shots—only about eight a game.”

This week’s quote of the week comes from Driesell. Here it is!

Money-Saver

After the squeaker at VMI, when asked about the narrow margin of victory, Driesell commented, “Close don’t count except in
horseshoes.”

Plans to spend the week of Jan. 31 through Feb. 3 in Daytona Beach, but not exactly vacationing, Pieper has
entered two races for the speed week—a Formula Vee 250-mile World Championship race and the 24 Hours of Daytona. In
the 24-hour race, he will drive a Porsche 911 for a factory team.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

SALE
Our Clearance of Winter Merchandise is ON - - Substantial reductions on famous brands in Clothing
Pants
Sweaters
Jackets
Weather Coats
Topcoats
Car Coats
Hats
and SPECIAL GROUPS OF SHIRTS
OUR 57th YEAR — MOORESVILLE
