outside - perspective! By DICK ANDERSON

Faculty Meetings Stay Closed

A motion to open faculty meetings to students as observers at Lehigh University has been referred to the Educational Policy
Committee there for study. The motion also included statements that observers could be granted the floor by majority vote and
that the meeting could be closed at the discretion of the chairman or by a majority vote of the faculty
members present.

Meanwhile, at Hofstra University, two separate organizations of black students crashed a faculty meeting. As the students entered the room,
there were cries for immediate adjournment, and a philosophy professor who tried to use the microphone was prevented from doing
so by the black leader, who said he was dissatisfied with the progress made in meeting the groups’ demands.

Vanderbilt Asks Abolition Of Blackballing

The Fraternity and Sorority Committee at Vanderbilt University has recommended the abolition of the blackball and sophomore rushing in its
recent report. The committee recommended that fraternities either persuade their nationals to allow them to eliminate the blackball or else
obtain an extension until the next year’s national convention. The report said that fraternities forced to go local would be
urged to remain as local fraternities on the Vanderbilt campus. However, the SAE representative at a meeting of fraternity presidents
and others at the SAE house where the report was read said, “We're going to fight this thing pretty hard,
and we hope other fraternities will join us. The recommendations here will really weaken our system.” One Sigma Chi also
pointed out that getting a blackball waiver from his national “would take a generation.”

Foreign Schoolmen Draw Little Interest

By DICK ANDERSON
Associate Editor

Eight Davidson students met Monday night with international students in an Open End which had as its main thrust the
international students’ belief that the college was not making sufficient use of the foreign students. Jorma Norkela of Finland, who
with freshman Curtis Smith organized the Open End, expressed this sentiment.

Symbols, Mood In Hirsch Films

A REVIEW By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

For those who are looking for Deep Hidden Meaning, the butterfly symbolizes the soul and the third eye mystic perception
in “Third Eye Butterfly;” “Journey Around a Zero” is a “phallic invocation;” “Cayuga Run” seeks to evoke the traveler’s sentiments;
and “The Color of Ritual, the Color of Thought” presents the universality of ritual. But such simplification obscures a great
deal of what is valuable in Storm de Hirsch’s four films. Miss de Hirsch works with abstractions, symbols, colors, and
rhythms in expressing herself. The substance of her films is thus the elements she uses.

Taxes, Sick-Leave Rapped As Cooks Air Grievances

By BILL SHERWOOD
Staff Writer

Eleven of the fraternity cooks, treasurers from several fraternity houses, and members of the committee trying to raise cooks’ salaries
met May 8 to catalogue grievances. The purpose of the meeting was to hear the grievances of the cooks directly
from them. Randy Phillips, one of the heads of the committee, said that there were four main grievances brought up
by the cooks. One of these complaints concerned the nature of the withholding procedures of some of the houses. Several
of the cooks at the meeting said that they were unaware of their gross pay. Some said that they did
not know how much the fraternities were taking out of their paychecks for various taxes and Social Security. Another complaint
centered on the sick leave policy of some of the fraternities. A few cooks said that they were not paid
for time off due to illness. Others explained that the fraternities which employed them required that they find substitutes if
they were sick and that they themselves pay their substitutes. Several cooks, however, expressed much satisfaction with the sick leave
policy of their respective fraternity. Phillips said that a third complaint raised by some cooks related to their inability to
find employment over the summer. A fourth point mentioned was that several of the cooks did more than just cook.
A few said that they also washed dishes and cleaned up the basements in their respective houses. The cooks did
not mention anything concerning the adequacy or inadequacy of their salaries.

James J. Terry, Jr., assistant dean of students, held a meeting with all the fraternity treasurers and members of the
committee last Monday. The possibilities of standardization, through the college, of sick leave policies, of clear statements of salaries, gross
and net, and of vacations was discussed.

OPEN HOUSE. These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
Locke White Jr. 203 Lorimer
Scott Woodmansee Pine and Lorimer

New IFC Policy (Continued From Page 1)

their opinions on hazing. These hearings formed the basis for a report on hazing presented to the Jurisdiction Committee of
the Student Life Committee for ratification. Those proposals approved by the Jurisdiction Committee made up the final policy statement on
hazing. “We feel that fraternities will now know the things that they are liable for in hazing,” said Dan Herd,
president of the IFC. Herd stressed that this policy was intended to be an entirely positive response to the problem
of hazing. “The entire idea is to set up constructive pledge programs so that people will treat each other maturely,”
he said.discussed. The standardization would enable the cooks to know how they stand with their own fraternity. Phillips said he
doubted that ‘the purely moral appeal would work’ at some houses, but that such recommended guidelines might be more effective.
One fraternity, Phi Delta Theta, recently increased the board bill of each member by one dollar a month. This action
has resulted in a sizeable salary increase for each of its cooks.

Elements which work in any film create the meaning, if you will, but which we usually do not pay attention
to. The pulsing rhythms, blazing colors, and counterpoint of images of ‘Butterfly’ combine with the recurring butterfly motif to give
a sense of epiphany in which common objects and patterns take on a surreal significance. The film sometimes presents 8
frames at once, pushing the viewer's perception to its limits. “Cayuga Run" paints the Hudson River's moods in grainy film
and unnatural greens and purples. The nervously jumping camera work which characterizes Miss de Hirsh’s style gets in the way
of the calmer moods, although it strengthens the more lively ones.

“Shaman. A Tapestry For Sorcerors,” the richest in the ‘Color Of Ritual” trilogy, fuses skulls and animals and racial consciousness
with religious images. African drum rhythms and sometimes blindingly rapid montages of dancing colored streaks tie the images together in
a sort of stream of subconsciousness. Insights are at times profound. A scene of expanding concentric circles and machine rhythms
cuts to an eastern mystic and mechanical human chants, and back to machine rhythms and an array of candle flames:
the ritual of modern man's search.

Strong Selected Freshman

Lester Strong has been named to the Richardson Fellows Program at Davidson. Strong will fill a vacancy which was created
by Ed Dannelly, who will leave Davidson this year to go to medical school. Commenting on his selection to the
Fellows Program, Strong said: ‘It's hard for me to imagine this tremendous opportunity which has opened up for me.

Just Arrived! Clothing and furnishings for The pace-setting traditionalist Irba Neck Opn Our 57th Year Mooresville, N. C.

End, said that he felt that the small number of Davidson students on hand was indicative of the general amount
of interest in the international students on campus. Britisher Michael Lunn commented that he thought the college ought to provide
more opportunities for the students to give information about their homelands. “After all, that’s what we're here for, isn't it?"
Lunn said, “to broaden the Davidson student's experience."

“We can come to classes in sociology, geography, and political science, for example, and tell about our home countries," said
Norkela. “The professors would contact us and ask us to come if we could be useful to their classes." German
Ralf Schaefer came up with the idea of having coffee hours during chapel period to meet with interested students, which
would be similar to the German department's Stammtisch. “The fraternity assignments have worked out very well,” said Schaefer, “but the
international students should be rotated among the fraternities once or twice a week, with some kind of bull sessions after
supper. These would be at houses other than the student's home fraternity."

Norkela also advised that the roommates for international students be more carefully selected, in particular that they be ready to
help the students adjust to Davidson. “It would be better if the prospective roommate be a brother in the fraternity
to which the student is to be assigned,” said Norkela, “and if he had a car, that would help a
lot with our transportation problem." Schaefer suggested that the prospective roommate read the foreign student's biographical sketch and write him
a letter, so that the foreign student would know someone when he got here. Norkela ended the evening by saying
that while freshman camp might be good for Davidson students, it was not really very helpful to foreigners.

COLLEGE STUDENTS SUMMER WORK

Our better students last year averaged over $170 weekly. This year's opportunity is even greater.

SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS

Participate in competition for individual scholarship awards from $200 to $3,000.

REQUIREMENTS

Over 18, neat appearance, cooperative attitude, above average intelligence, willingness to follow instructions. If you meet these qualifications, APPLY NOW.
Qualified students will be given the opportunity to develop management skills in sales and sales training, office procedures, and personnel
control.

THE RICHARDS CO. WILL RESERVE A POSITION FOR YOU IN EITHER OUR RALEIGH OR CHARLOTTE OFFICE. CALL 9 A.M. -
2 P.M. 704-376-1501 (CHARLOTTE) 919-834-3080 (RALEIGH) $125 WEEKLY SALARY

The Davidsonian Page Three May 16, 1969

“This is the most hackneyed and superficial analysis of a complex situation I have ever read.” So begins an editorial
board meeting, as an associate editor gets his teeth into one of the editor's creations. The criticism that has given
THE DAVIDSONIAN 14 straight All-American Awards begins with the editors’ Sunday night critique of last week's paper and continues through
the week. Managing editors join in the criticism of news, and stories are rewritten once and often several times in
an effort to get the news accurate and unbiased. Get the news about Davidson, and a critical appraisal of it
each week in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Subscribe now for the 1969-70 year.

Subscription Form

Name ___________________________
Address _________________________
City __________ State ____ ZIP ____
New ___ Renewal ___
I enclose $7.00 ___
Bill me at $7.50 ___
Mail to: Circulation Mgr. Box 218 Davidson, N. C. 28036
