\a a - time has made a big mistake Page four April 11, 1969 The Davidsonian Cats’ Tracks By RUSS MERRITT Sports Editor (Fourth Of A Series) By DON PARMAN Sports Writer Davidson's track and cross-country teams both compete in fast and specialized company. Heath Whittle, Wildcat head coach in both sports, has been faced with increasing strength among his opponents as more and more schools subsidize track. Last fall the cross-country team suffered through a losing season as they were unable to match the scholarship runners on the other squads. Whittle said, "They have one of the boys on scholarship, so they take the first two or three places almost automatically. From there on we were about even with them but that is too late to save the meet." The cross-country team finished last in the conference behind VMI, the only other nonsubsidized team. Richmond, with one scholarship runner, finished ahead of both. Whittle pointed out that the primary function of the cross-country season is "to give the middle and long-distance runners some conditioning for their races in spring track." Track has been Whittle's domain at Davidson for 36 years. In those 36 years he has had only one losing season.

Scott And The Big Stall

ED. NOTE: Sports Editor Russ Merritt is bedridden with a viral infection. His column this week is being written by editor-in-chief Bob Dunham, formerly the sports editor of the paper. Merritt will return next week.

Since Big Ways has not yet named the new basketball coach, perhaps it would be of interest to review the selection process as it has slowly developed. In actuality, the selection process started slowly before gradually tapering off, and at the present time (unless something drastic has developed in the last 24 hours) it has come to a complete standstill. The selective powers have wasted away valuable time, even to the point of completely destroying Davidson's recruiting power for this year, and thus assuring that two years from now the new coach will be talking about “rebuilding years.”

Sure Tom Scott was right the last time. He waited until he found just the right man for the job. But last time he could afford to stall, Davidson had just suffered through 52 straight “rebuilding years.” This time the case is different. This time Davidson has a powerful basketball dynasty to protect. And Tom Scott and his selection power have dropped that protection.

The truth of the matter is that Tom Scott this time has made a big mistake. When it was first announced that the coach would be named within one week, it seemed to be quite clear that the school was not seeking out some big name in the basketball world, but rather was going to name someone well-known to the school as the replacement. Then the big stall began. It was at first “another week,” and then “Not sure when.” The question of the day became “when will the coach be named?” instead of “who will the new coach be?” Increased dissatisfaction grew rapidly among the student body and alumni, and this protest was voiced to everyone except the proper channel.

Now that recruiting for next year is at a point of impossibility, perhaps we can stop and evaluate where the mistakes were made. The biggest blow to the Davidson program was the loss of both of its very capable assistants. Terry Holland and Jerry Conboy had done a great deal for Wildcat basketball. They held all of the cards in this year’s recruiting hand. To let Holland and Conboy go was foolish. Both had proven their ability as coaches and as recruiters, and both were popular with the team and the college community. Between them, they knew hundreds of high school prospects by their first names, and I dare say that Scott knows no more than a handful. The best choice that Scott could have made from the available resources was Holland. A proven coach, he was requested by several team members, who have been completely ignored in the selection. But even without his actual selection, he at least deserved the courtesy of knowing where he stood, a courtesy which Tom Scott denied him.

No wonder Terry Holland got tired of waiting around watching recruits dropping off like flies. Not surprising that Conboy would leave to go to a relatively unknown basketball school. Neither of them were treated with any due fairness at all. It is a real shame that Tom Scott did not recognize their merits, that he was more interested in landing a “big name” than in protecting the dynasty. For now, the dynasty is beginning to crumble. A number of big names were mentioned along the way, but some became disenchanted and some were never considered. They were bypassed in favor of Bob Knight, an unpopular coach from West Point who scared one of the Davidson players into threatening to quit if he was named coach. But even Knight was displeased by something at Davidson. And the new name became Lee Rose from Transylvania. No one remembered him, although he indeed had been successful. The question, however, is not Rose's capability. It is a matter of why Holland and Conboy were passed up for someone no one has ever heard of. It just doesn't seem that Scott is playing his cards right. Perhaps that is why everyone in the school cringed at sportscaster Bill Currie's suggestion that Scott take over the coaching job for a while. That's why so much dissatisfaction has been generated by just one man. All of his announced press conferences have been canceled. The only comment has been that there was “no comment.” While the powers of selection are dwindling away precious time trying to duplicate the lucky decision made nine years ago, Davidson basketball is losing every inch it has gained in that time.

The Davidson rugby team is suffering both literally and figuratively to their first season. The team has yet to win its first match although they have come close. Practice has proved to be nearly as tough as the actual play for the ruggers. Both Worth Penn and Barry Baril separated their shoulders in practice before the season started. In official play, Reynolds Anderson injured his ankle, and in the contest with Carolina Ed Rice suffered a broken nose but is back in action.

Tennis coach Harry Fogleman has recommended that the playing surfaces on four of the student courts be changed this summer. The four courts are presently composition surfaces but would be converted to hard courts because of the high maintenance costs. The athletic director is also seeking funds to pave for a new court. Eventually, all of the student courts would be hard courts. Fogleman cited the high costs of maintaining the composition courts.

Davidson vs. Wake Forest. Atlanta. Davidson vs. Emory Charlotte Lake Norman Davidson Invitational Spring Championships Baseball Field Davidson vs. E. Carolina (2) Charlottesville, Va. Davidson vs. U. Va. Charleston, S. C. Davidson vs. The Citadel Atlanta Davidson vs. Oglethorpe. Charlotte Davidson vs. UNC BooneDuividsow vs. Appalachian High Point Davidson vs. High Point. Pembroke Baseball Field Davidson vs. Richmond Tennis Courts Davidson vs. Pfeiffer Baseball Field Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey

Seven first-inning runs boosted the Wildcats to their 7-6 win over West Liberty State College Monday afternoon. Marshall Cease preserved the win with his late-inning relief work. Leading the Davidson batters in the slugfest were Stu ——.

Davidson Relays Set For April 19

The largest field ever will compete next Saturday in the annual Davidson Relays on the track of Richardson Field. Track coach Heath Whittle is very enthusiastic about the size of the field, which will bring in some of the top talent in the Appalachian area.

The changeover would cost about $25,000. The proposal went before the budget committee Wednesday morning but their decision has not been announced.

Members of last fall's soccer team have started informal workouts at the soccer field. Since coach Barry Foyloman is engaged with the tennis team, the players are on their own. Anyone is welcome to play in the afternoon sessions.

The gym was closed for several days in recent weeks while the ceiling was being painted. The college's regular painters did the work. This was the first time in at least 15 years that the ceiling was given a coat of paint.

Mike Maloy continues to receive honors for the past season. He was recently named to the Converse and Helms Athletic Foundation All-American teams. Maloy ranked 20th in the nation in rebounding and 11th in scoring according to the final NCAA statistics.

Non-Subsidization Is Fair To All Trackmen--Whittle

"I wouldn't want scholarships unless I could give them to everyone. All the boys are working hard and I don't think it would be fair to someone who might be working just as hard if one or two boys had the scholarships."

Although Whittle has no recruiting budget and doesn't want one, he does get talent from the basketball and football teams. Rick Lyon, conference 220 champion, Whit Morrow, Ken Hill, Leonard Baughim, and Barry Keith are from the football team. Steve Hixley, the team's top weight man, is the basketball team's contribution.

Staff Photo by Lyle

CONTENTED WITH CURRENT SET-UP Track Coach Heath Whittle cites fairness.

Golfers Show Progress; To Meet Deacons Today

In spite of suffering a thrashing Tuesday, the Davidson golf team is showing "encouraging improvement," according to golf coach Dr. Tom Scott. "All the fellows' scores are coming down," Scott said after the team's loss to Wake Forest. "It's very encouraging."

The team was snowed by the nationally recognized Deacon team, 14-6. All-American Mike Spann led the Davidson effort in the match, with a 73. The team has been unable to win their first match this year, but the scores posted in Tuesday's match promise better results. After Spann, Toby Dawson, K. D. Week, and Ed Terry all posted 77's.

"We're playing strong competition," Scott said, "in hopes that we will learn something." That competition continues this afternoon when the Wildcats again take on Wake Forest, this time in Charlotte. One bright spot in this week's competition with the Deacons is that Wake's leading golfer, Jack Lewis, is participating in the Masters Golf Tournament.

Scott still believes that the main threat to Davidson's dominance of the Southern Conference is Furman, with East Carolina just behind. "We hope that by playing the tough ACC teams we will be ready by tournament time," he said. "With the rate of our improvement," he said, "I definitely think that we will be contenders for the crown."

The Southern Conference championship will be decided May 5-7 at Pinehurst. The Wildcats will be one of the few non-subsidized teams in competition. "We do not subsidize," Scott noted. "We don't even have a golf course like the other schools. We have to play wherever we can. But we are improving, and we still have a shot at that championship."

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY Watch Repairs Main Street DAVIDSON, N. C.

Baseball Win Tops Last Year’s Mark

Brown and Bob Meadows with two hits and two RBIs each, and Pat Reed with two hits. Meadows tripled to highlight the six-hit first inning.

"One of our biggest problems in recent games has been a lack of experience on our pitching staff," said Tom Stevens, coach of the Davidson baseball squad, commenting on the team's play in last week's games. "This is reflected by the high earned run average of our pitching staff, 4.39," he said. "You have to remember, though, that of our five regular pitchers, there are three freshmen, one sophomore, and one junior. Some of these boys haven't adjusted to the better hitters of college baseball."

Stevens expressed the belief that Davidson's pitching is improving.

Sporttopics

Mike Maloy was named to the Converse and Helms Athletic Foundation All-American teams. Maloy ranked 20th in the nation in rebounding and 11th in scoring according to the final NCAA statistics.

Three All-Americans, one of the nation’s leading scorers, and a first-round NBA draft choice in part make up THE DAVIDSONIAN's 1968-69 All Opponent basketball team. This is the first year of the team, selected by the sports staff of the paper. All-Americans Charlie Scott of North Carolina, Howard Porter of Villanova, and Rudy Tomjanovich of Michigan are three of the first team members, joined by Duke's Dick DeVenzio and St. John's John Warren. Warren was drafted this week in the first round by the New York Knickerbockers.

Making up the second team were high-scoring Bob Tallent of George Washington, John Roche of South Carolina, the ACC player of the year, Wake Forest’s Charlie Davis, Vanderbilt's Tom Hagan, and Dan Obrovac of Dayton. The team consists of players who excelled in games against Davidson this year.

Hungry? THE COFFEE CUP Can soothe your stomach with delicious Sandwiches, Seafoods & Steaks Breakfast begins at 6 A.M. Dinner is served until 9 P.M. daily.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C., Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.