Page Eight October 3, 1969 The Davidsonian

(Photos by Davidson and Culp)

DECKED IN FORMAL REGALIA
The faculty procession forms in all its array.

(Continued From Page 1)

Abbott, professor of English Gary Scibal, of Glenwood, N.J., received the Alumni Association Medal for completing his freshman year with
the highest grade average in his class. In his talk to the luncheon following the convocation, Terrell told the seniors
that the Davidson experience was being internalized in them though they were perhaps unaware of this process. He broke the
“experience” down into four component parts. He said that the major process is the acquisition of a fund of knowledge,
limited only by the Davidson experience.

CAPS AND GOWNS AND A SONOROUS ARRAY

Leavenworth port for the bill. When I returned home, I wrote a letter to Sen. John Stennis (D-Miss.), chairman of
the armed services committee, suggesting that Congress defeat the bill.

(Continued From Page 1)

On the other hand, disagrees completely that the sole reason they were brought to the school was to acquaint the
faculty with the educational accomplishments of the Army. “My reason for doing this is based on what I learned from
talking outside the classroom to different students enrolled in the school,” he noted. “Too much money was invested in gimmickry.”
Jackson felt that fluorescent chalk and various kinds of projectors were somewhat beneficial, but that too much emphasis was placed
on them. “In fact,” he said, “a colonel Thompson who led one of the discussion groups, flatly recommended that we
write to our senators and congressmen voicing our support for the bill. When I returned home, I wrote a letter
to Sen. John Stennis (D-Miss.), chairman of the armed services committee, suggesting that Congress defeat the bill.”

Jackson said, “The faculty members did little more original work themselves. They weren't any more competent than the officers taking
the course. From my point of view, the college tried to give us the ‘soft sell’.” Fuller, however, did not
see gaining permission to grant a Master's degree in Military Arts and Sciences as the focal point. “We were there
for 48 hours and I don’t think that topic was discussed for even one hour of the 48,” he said.
Fuller said he thought the instructors were “quite effective and well qualified. I suspect that courses at Davidson are no
better than the courses at the General Staff College.” The political science professor also admired the disciplinary barracks there, calling
them “a kind of model prison example... (It shows) what can be accomplished if you are willing to pay enough
money.”

When Holland, Assistant Professor of English, reflected on the trip, he admitted, “I really don't know what the purpose was.
We got a look at their educational setup, sat in on a few lectures, and were briefed by many men
on the program. We were also told they hoped to get regional accreditation to award a Master's degree in military
science. But I really don’t know what that had to do with me,” he said. Holland felt that from a
“whirlwind tour lasting a day and a half, he really could not draw any conclusions about the college.”

From Cover To Content, ‘Evaluation’ Lacks Color

A REVIEW By BOB DUNHAM Editor-in-Chief

The one thing which can be said about the ‘Student Course Evaluation’ booklet is that it is one book you
can tell by its cover. Both cover and content leave a sort of blah feeling in the reader. The white
space on the cover symbolizes the emptiness of some of the sections. The cover lacks all color, and that about
sums up the content, with perhaps one exception. The lone bright spot in the booklet is the Fine Arts Section,
which lends its air of Gardnerian prose to the enhancement of an otherwise disappointing effort. It is unfair to criticize
an effort to organize such a worthwhile publication without acknowledging the time put into it. But to make the point
simply, it should not have been published in such an incomplete, inconsistent, and vapid form. The analysis of the traits
of individual professors, such as in the economics section, is a valuable tool for the student to utilize in the
process of course selection. But it and German are the only sections which offer this type of analysis. The fine
arts section is exceptional.

SPENCER CONFERS DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE
Missionary Paul Crane receives the traditional hood.

Moratorium

(Continued From Page 1)

“...values and as the critical and moral intelligence compels the community to ponder its courses of action.” Widespread support is
mounting at other campuses around the country, although some administrations have rejected the cancellation of classes. Princeton University President Robert
Goheen this week endorsed the Moratorium in principle but refused requests to close the university for the day. “The desire
of many of our students and faculty to join in the proposed moratorium is entirely understandable and appropriate,” Goheen said.
“I have frequently made known my opposition to that war. It does not, however, seem to me right,” Goheen said,
“to force participation in this sort of protest upon members of the University who may feel very differently.”

West Virginia University President James G. Harlow refused to cancel classes, saying that participation should be a personal decision and
that the University should do nothing to “coerce” students or faculty to have classes or not. Neither Duke University nor
the University of North Carolina plan to suspend classes, although the moratorium at Duke is gaining momentum and may have
a large student and faculty response. DUKE CHRONICLE editor Tom Campbell said that the day will be planned with seminars
and discussions and a memorial chapel service, but he said that the moratorium committee at Duke did not plan to
ask for suspension of classes.

Midnight Cowboy Sees Sunshine Through Clouded Human Nature

A REVIEW By JOHN McLEAN Managing Editor

Back in my hometown there is a particular group of people—“slummers” they are called—who are just now arriving to a
higher station in life. Former slum dwellers, these people are now finding jobs and respectability through the many new textile
firms coming into the area. The movie “Midnight Cowboy” is somewhat reminiscent of these “slummers.”UNC Administration passed a resolution stating
that the University Disruptions Policy will be followed, and that the university's rigid cut system will be maintained.

Six years ago, I would venture to say, a movie with the bare plot of ‘Midnight Cowboy’ could be seen
only in theaters devoted solely to hard-core pornography. What would have been a skin-flick just a few years back, though,
has found respectability in a more sophisticated, permissive day and time. The frankness of the plot is central to ‘Midnight
Cowboy.’ It tells the story of Joe Buck (Jon Voight), a cowboy just back from the war making his way
to the big city. But as the plot would have it, his only natural resource is his masculinity. So the
Midnight Cowboy leaves his job as a dishwasher in Big Star, Texas, boards a Trailways bus, and strikes out for
New York. Now we follow Joe Buck into the cold-hearted city. Confessing that he’s “no real cowboy, but a hell
of a stud!”, Joe lands his first job. But instead of getting paid for his services, Joe ends up giving
his partner his last 20 dollars.

Stanford Alters Undergraduate Education

Noting that “colleges and universities have failed to produce little-league Renaissance men in four years,” Stanford University announced drastic alterations
in undergraduate education and a major shift in the university’s responsibilities to its students. The new program gives students the
prime responsibility for designing their education, removing the old required standards and courses. The alterations in policy have been recommended
in a 10-report series issued by the Study of Education at Stanford, which began its long-range study three years ago.
Most of the graduation requirements are now extinct. The only remaining restrictions are two required quarters of written composition and
three quarters of work in each of three areas — humanities and fine arts, social science, and science and technology.
Major requirements and foreign language requirements have been dropped, and a number of new seminars for freshmen are being added.
According to Herbert L. Packer, the chairman of the study’s steering committee, the changes were made following the acceptance of
the fact that there is no “fixed body of knowledge that everyone should acquire. The knowledge explosion has demolished that
idea.”

Williams Closes Library Doors

Williams College Library has succumbed to the pressure of mounting book losses and has canceled an unwritten honor system which
has been in effect since the 1840s. Some 400 books per year are being lost, and an additional 3,000 are
being taken without being checked out. Williams’ library operated like Davidson's, but now only one of the library’s six doors
is open, with a student inspector on duty at all times.

Professor's Firing Causes Problems At UCLA

University of California regents are now awaiting further backlash from the recent firing of UCLA Black Philosophy Professor Angela Davis,
an avowed Communist. Miss Davis has announced that she would challenge the decision in California courts. Robert Singleton, director of
UCLA’s Afro-American Studies program, warned of “grave consequences,” and various campus groups have threatened violence pending the outcome of Miss
Davis’ hearing, which came in a secret session. Governor Ronald Reagan said that the firing did not conflict with the
Regents’ decision earlier this year not to discriminate in hiring because of political affiliation. Reagan said that Miss Davis gave
“her allegiance to another country.”

Janus Sponsors European Films

The Coffee Film Festival gives the Davidson community the opportunity to view vicariously the “age of infidelity” next week in
a week-long cinematic special featuring three European films. Janus Films, who provided the New Cinema programs last fall, is promoting
the festival, according to student coordinator Skip Smoak. Bardem's Death of a Cyclist, an attack on upper-class morality in Spain,
will be shown Monday and Tuesday nights. In the production, two illicit lovers kill a lone cyclist on the way
back to Madrid after a rendezvous in the country. Fearing exposure of their affair, the terrified pair violates their instincts
and leaves the man on the road to die. Truffaut's Shoot the Piano Player, a movie which has been shown
on campus before, plays a return engagement Wednesday and Thursday nights. The Festival concludes with Smiles of a Summer Night
Friday and Saturday night. This comedy, another Cannes winner, is an exercise in the spicy sport of partner switching. Admission
to the Morrison room for each of the full-length showings is 25 cents.

Debater Predicts Dynasty

By BILL ESKRIDGE
Staff Writer

“I think we're on the threshold of becoming a great powerhouse of the Southeast,” said varsity debater Gray Mason regarding
Davidson's debate prospects this year. Veterans Scott Keeter, Danny Clodfelter, and Mason returned from last year’s successful team to form
the nucleus of the squad. Davidson's debate team has an unusually strong freshman team of debaters this year. Included in
this category are Charles Davis, Mark Deininger, William Endy, William Eskridge, Mike Scott, and Steve Wright. Fletcher Hartsell, who graduated
from Davidson last spring, is the coach of the team and another important factor in the team’s predicted success. Hartsell
has already outlined a rigorous preparation program for this year’s debate team.

The feature which separates this movie from the ordinary skin-flick is that, despite the perversity which fills every character in
the movie, Joe Buck retains his optimism and basic naivete about human nature. Perhaps this is what made him return
to Ratso time after time. But his devotion to this asthmatic cripple was the only warm, supporting relationship in the
whole film. And it provided a moral vindication for the sordidness which engulfed them. “Midnight Cowboy” is a consciously arty
film. Numerous flashbacks highlight Joe Buck's boyhood. These are good touches, and they keep the audience busy trying to analyze
a protagonist who keeps trying to hide his true self with male braggadocio. I forget whom Marshall McLuhan was quoting,
but the quote was something to the effect that only in novels, as opposed to life, do people actually change.
By this yardstick at least, Joe Buck is a character cut from life.
