- And The Vibes Were Good... I hope there were some serious sociologists in Washington last weekend. They would have had one of the trippiest field trips that a sociologist could have. Because the sub-culture had emerged in one of the biggest gatherings since Hitler's mass meeting in the late thirties. The police released a very conservative figure of 250,000, but it was closer to 500,000. (Ironically, there was one demonstrator for every GI in Vietnam.) These people were from all over the Eastern half of the country, not just New York or Washington. And their culture was oozing. Their clothes, their ideas, their aspirations, their humor, their sleeping habits, their children, everything except their houses—it was all there to be seen and recorded. And, one of their ideals being not to record things, they didn’t stay anywhere long enough to be studied or counted or typed or anything. To estimate this crowd and their feelings, one had to go on intuition, or vibrations. And the vibes were good... Oh, wow, man. This is the biggest congregation of people ever anywhere except for D-Day and here we are right in the middle of it. 250,000. Half a million. I bet there’s a million people here and you can just stand up and like I mean see ‘em all. It’s fantastic. It’s unbelievable. It’s nothing less than the highest natural high I ever had. Oh wow. You bet, Baby. And if that isn’t enough, check those cats up there on the dais: There’s Dr. Benjamin Spock (‘Welcome brothers in peace and my children all’) and Dick Gregory (‘Yeah, Spiro’s so dumb I wouldn’t put it past him to make a crank call on the hot line’). And there’s Leonard Bernstein (‘I represent that square world of Classical Music, so I won't talk too long. I just want to tell you that I’m with you all’) and Arlo Guthrie (‘I was just thinking that my Dad would really dig to be here; hell, I’m thinking he is here. One of you children out there, one of the three-year-olds... Maybe, maybe not’). And have you seen some of these signs? Some of them are really good. Dirty? God. Look at that one over there: PULL OUT, DICK. Wow. I just went over to the Johnny-on-the-Spot and right there on the wall some dude had written 'P for Peace.’ Tough. And how about the one we saw marching this morning, ‘Fighting for Peace is like screwing for Chastity.’ You feel sorry for people carrying things like ‘What if they gave a war and nobody came?’ That was last year’s sign. But I tell you, it’s kind of a drag really. I mean, I dig to be here. I really do. But there’s so much crap floating around. All these cats running around doing their own little thing. Now, don’t get me wrong. I think it’s really beautiful to do your own thing. That's not it. But we’re all here for one big thing and that is Peace. So when some fruity-wacko comes from the Gay Liberation League and gives me some of his trash, then I just get turned off bigger than anything.Ales look at this thing. The first paragraph says we ought to get out of the war. Fair enough. That's a groove. Right on. But the second paragraph is some crap about discrimination against homosexuals in the army. And the third paragraph tells everybody to be homophiles. I mean man, he’s just jumping on a bandwagon. And he’s not the only one. Like Mrs. King. Now, Mrs. King is a fine lady and I can see how she is really dedicated to her husband’s cause and all, but she is here about poverty and civil rights and that’s not the war. 

And then there’s all these other cats runnin’ round. The Three Sisters Bridge people and the Black Panthers and the Crazies and the Weatherman and all, and man it’s like the whole thing is falling apart. But there’s one thing you can’t forget. We're all here and we’re all grooving on this thing together, and we're all peaceful and it's just really good. Right on.

And that, pretty much, is how things were in Washington. It was one hell of a demonstration, but exactly what it demonstrated is hard to determine. Most of the crowd was middle-class white under twenty-fives. There were few black or wrinkled faces. And although the main theme was “Peace,” there were a lot of people who were there for other causes...

The most memorable thing about that day was the mood that prevailed. People were cooperating, trying to help each other, being nice. We were waiting for a bus that morning way up Massachusetts Avenue when a man stopped his car and asked us (we were five) if we were going to the march and would we like a ride. And not only did he stop, but another car pulled up at the same time and a lady stuck her head out to ask if we needed any more room. And the MOBE (The Student Mobilization Committee) had the whole thing running like a Rolex Oyster; there were student marshals all along the march route keeping things moving, encouraging the cold ones and the tired, and cooling the crazies. And those few who did throw some stuff, well, like the man said, the only problem they presented was separating bad manners from revolution.

And I’ll tell you a funny thing that happened to me. Being in MS II, I was a little hesitant about having my picture taken. So when I saw some straight-looking guy snapping shots of the crowd, I would start acting like I was cold and pull my collar up real high. Well, there was one guy I remember who was sitting up on a traffic light (Did you hear the one about the drunk who called his friend and asked him to meet him at the corner of Walk and Don't Walk?). And so the cat up there had a beard and was wearing jeans and an army jacket, so I didn’t worry about it. Well, Sunday morning, I was reading the Post and, you guessed it, right there on page sixteen: Story by Sam Darby, Photos by Tom Robertson. The Davidsonian, Nov. 21, 1969.