Page Six
March 28, 1969
The Davidsonian

Radio | Outside Perspective
By DICK ANDERSON

Legislatures, HEW Knock Student Protest

Governor Ronald Reagan of California has urged that national legislation be enacted to punish persons inciting campus disorders and institutions allowing such disorders. A backdrop for Reagan’s remarks was provided by passage in the Texas legislature of a bill cutting off state funds to students engaged in campus demonstrations which disrupt the activity of the institution and by the proposal of a similar bill in the Pennsylvania legislature. In the meantime, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Robert H. Finch, previously lieutenant governor of California, has said that federal law already requires the U.S. government to cut off federal aid to any student convicted of inciting or participating in campus riots.

Sarah Lawrence Students Protest

Students at Sarah Lawrence College, which this year admitted its first male students, seized the administration building in protest against a tuition raise which, protesters said, would cause the college to remain “a school for rich girls.” Fifty-six women and four men were involved.

Guilford Students Boycott Slater

Guilford students have staged a walk-out from their cafeteria after it received a B rating from the State Board of Health. The Guilfordian, the student newspaper, indicated that the walk-out was the culmination of a long period of student dissatisfaction with the cafeteria. The cafeteria is run by ARA Slater Food Services, which also runs the Davidson College Union Cafeteria.

Board Named

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college, has appointed a commission to govern the radio station. Dr. John Hopkins, professor of physics, is chairman of the student-faculty commission. Ed Dobbs, who is the student manager of the station, will sit on the commission along with six other students. The radio station was given a boost when Dr. Spencer promised that the school would provide operating expenses for the station. “We still have to get the money for the starting of the station,” said Dobbs. “The reason that we have to furnish the starting money ourselves is that the college has no funds left to give us,” said Jimmy Wright, who is on the staff of the station. “It will probably cost us about $4000,” said Wright. “We have sent out inquiries to Davidson alumni who are in radio, and we are hoping for donations.” A radio station request for funds was turned down by the Richardson Foundation. “I learned about the commission in a luncheon with Dr. Spencer,” said Dobbs. “At first I thought that the faculty would be in control of the commission, but I was very pleased when I learned that there would be this many students on the commission.”

Davidson Meets Colgate In College Bowl Sunday

Davidson's team on the “GE College Bowl” television program will face Colgate University at 6 p.m. this Sunday. Because of local interest in the event, WSOC-TV Channel 9 in Charlotte has adjusted its Sunday schedule to present the program at the same time as the NBC Network — 6 p.m., instead of the usual practice of broadcasting the program a week later at 2 p.m. “We are eager for the contest, and feel we have an excellent chance for victory,” said Charles Lloyd of the college English department, the team’s advisor. Lloyd said that junior Robert Bryan has been tentatively chosen as captain of the team. Other members are Richard Anderson, a sophomore; senior Sam Gwynn; and sophomore Charles Timmons. The fifth member of the team, senior Bob Reid, will probably serve as an alternate. The team will leave for New York at 4 p.m. this afternoon and return Sunday evening. The College Bowl will treat them to a Broadway play “Hadrian, the Seventh,” and furnish them rooms in the Warwick Hotel, Lloyd said. The program will be taped Saturday afternoon, and if Davidson wins, they will tape their next program Sunday, to allow them Easter weekend at home instead of having to return to New York a week later.

BOWL TEAM PREPARES

College Bowl Team, (l-r) Bryan, Gwynn, Timmons, Anderson, and Reid, prepare to meet Colgate.

Col. Virgil P. J. Foster will assume leadership of the Davidson ROTC department in June, according to Col. Frederick B. Outlaw, who will retire from the post this spring. Foster is 47, married, has two children, and is a native of Spartanburg, S.C. He was commissioned in the Army in 1942 and served in Europe during WWII and in Korea during the Korean War. In addition to his combat assignments, Foster has served as Secretary of the General Staff at the Headquarters of the Far Eastern Command, Operations and Training Officer at the Headquarters of 3rd Army, and as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence and Security at ARADCOM (Army Air Defense Command) Headquarters in Denver, Colo. Outlaw says he has no definite plans, but said “I hope to be affiliated with a

MARSH GAS? UFO?

This picture taken near Johnson Gym reveals one of several such objects that has puzzled area residents recently. Alien beings? Fraud? Perhaps the best answer can be had from the local man who recently chased one several miles before calling Charlotte papers. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

Coffee House Circuit Polishes Performers

Filling the responsibility for bringing good entertainment to Davidson is the Hungry I, a member of the college coffee house circuit which was organized here three years ago. C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union, is credited with the idea for the coffee house circuit. After a block booking conference in Raleigh three years ago, Smith discussed his coffee house plans with Fred Weintraub, owner of Greenwich Village’s Bitter End Cafe. They discussed the need for more college entertainers. In the spring of 1966, Fred Smoot, a stand-up comic and impressionist, was invited to Davidson for a week of performances. The enthusiastic response to Smoot encouraged Smith to find other schools to join a circuit of coffee houses. The North Carolina circuit with 16 schools became the first coffee house circuit. According to Ed Embree, former president of the Union Board, the purpose of a cof-

Dean’s Office Will Approve Motorcycles On Trial Basis
By DAN JOHNSTON
Staff Writer

Last week a memorandum was distributed from Assistant Dean of Students Jim Terry's office which authorized the use of motorcycles on campus for the spring term. This announcement was the result of a decision by the traffic committee of which Terry isa member. The action was prompted by the request of three students, Whit Ayres, Hal Iverson, and Roy Lane, to allow motorcycles on campus. The Traffic Committee, which meets only for such matters as this one, is composed of Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., Terry, Business Manager Robert A. Currie, Mr. Grover Meetze, Mr. E. N. Linker, and Gary Cash, the student representative. Whit Ayres, one of the protagonists in the matter, said that many students would like to see motorcycles on campus as does Gary Cash, the student representative. Apparently, this decision was not a sudden one. Five years ago motorcycles were allowed on campus and as the result of excessive noise, they were banned. However, since then there has been thought of allowing them again on campus. Terry stressed that this matter is on a trial basis. Foster To Replace Outlaw As ROTC Chief In June ~~ FOSTER, new ROTC head, may continue to work with people. A final decision will be reached before the end of the spring term. Cooperation on the part of the students is the deciding factor. Terry said motorcycles will be confined to roadways, stock mufflers must be used, and safety helmets will be worn by drivers and passengers, as this is an N.C. state law. Because the use of motorcycles by students could cause parking problems, Terry said that special parking areas for motorcycles would possibly be provided in the fall. Students on general scholarships will be allowed to own and keep motorcycles on campus. This is due to the low operational and maintenance costs of motorcycles. Terry Resigns Post As Assistant Student Dean Assistant Dean of Students Jim Terry has officially resigned his post, effective this June. Terry, who has served as assistant dean since his graduation from Davidson in 1966, plans to work with Boy Scouts of America in the Charlotte area. “The basic reason for my resignation is a decision not to pursue further a career in education,” Terry said. “My decision has nothing to do with any particular incidents or conflicts here.” Terry's work in scouting will involve training and selection of adult leaders, as well as fundraising and public relations. He will probably start as assistant district director of the Boy Scouts in the fall, Terry said. He said the college has not yet decided on a replacement for his post at Davidson. You have to look for the "W" because it's silent. Most Wrangler jeans have the "W" stitched on in plain sight, but other kinds of Wranglers are a little more modest. They're made just as well and they fit just as well, but the "W" is tucked away on a tag or label. You'll find it's worth looking for. These sportback slacks, $7.00. And the jeans $5.50. Both permanently pressed and creased. All in carefree Fortrel polyester and cotton. Shirts from $4.00. The coffee house circuit is “to provide a system in which young entertainers can go out and play at schools for a week at a time with low cost to these schools.” Embree commented that, “Good talent is not necessarily expensive talent.” At a low price to the college, the performers get a chance to polish their act in an informal atmosphere. The groups are able to introduce new material and test their acts. In the three years of the Hungry I at Davidson, Jake Holmes, Steve Gillette, the Pickle Brothers, the Pozo Seco Singers, and many other groups have performed and become quite successful. About 140 schools and 40 entertainers are involved now on the coffee house circuit run by the Bitter End. The music is generally folk progressing toward folk-rock. Next week the Union will present its eleventh Hungry I, featuring Leatherwood and Lisa. This will be the first Hungry I under the co-management of Rob Krehbiel and Glenn Mauney. Mauney said, “The full potential of the Hungry I has not yet been realized. Students understand that the performers on the coffee house circuit are professional and are in quest of an audience to try out their material.” BEST ITALIAN DISHES WEST OF ITALY! Your Dining Will Be An Experience To Remember! Rendezvous in Charlotte At La TORINO RESTAURANT & TAPROOM Best Pizza in Town Choice Charcoal Steaks — Imported & Domestic Wines Brown Bagging — Tap Room 6 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Sunday 4 p.m. to 12 p.m. One Block East of Independence Blvd. 1427 E. Fourth Phone 332-6352 As Our WILDCAT BASKETBALL TEAM is our selection of New Spring Pants. FAMOUS MAKES GOOD COLORS FINE PATTERNS and We have your size. 8.00 to 22.00 Clothing for the Pace Setting Traditionalist John Mack & Son Our 57th Year — Mooresville How to recognize a real Wrangler. BIFF FINE HOWARD RAMAGLI some school in an administrative capacity so that I News Editor: GREG SCOTT Assistant Managing Editors: TERRY STEVE CROSS ZACK MOBLEY BILL LINEAWEAVER CULLUM ROGERS Contributors this week: Dan Johnston, Roe Elliott, Chris Bickley, Tom Sinks, Jule Young, George Park, Gene, Bill Sherwood, Steve Roady, Jim Philips, Norwood, Locke White Jr., Joe Smith, Don Parman, Bob Wallace, Steve Newsome, T. A. Williams, and Mark Hodges.