The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C. 28036.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON
Editors-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1969

A ‘Revolting’ Situation

The role of opinion is the serious question. With the advent of the new editorial “we,” there is naturally the
coming of new ideas and new considerations, but the role of opinions remains the essential question. Along with it comes
the question of this publication in evaluating the aims of the students which it represents.

In one of the newspaper cartoons this week an island castaway picked up a newspaper which had drifted ashore and
said to his companion, “The newspaper says that the students are revolting.” His mate’s reply was simply, “Well it’s entitled
to its opinion.”

Certainly there have been times when THE DAVIDSONIAN’s editors have found the actions of their contemporaries “revolting,” but instead of
expressing this opinion they have turned frequently to the interest of the student cause. We have reached a point which
marks the necessity to evaluate more completely some of the causes and their methods of achievement. We have reached a
point now at which we can question the methodology and aims of the student cause.

We have been quite concerned, perhaps more than most students, about the evolution of the new action Davidson. We have
taken an interest in the long and the short range goals of the student body, and we have supported these
goals. But there have been times when we have questioned the motivation and modus operandi of student desires.

In many ways the Davidson student body has directed its quest for change along mature and well-planned channels. The dissent
was well-founded and directed at necessary amendment of existing structures. But there have also been times when students have spoken
too loudly, when immaturity has overridden good timing and reason, when impatience has spoiled qualified concern and when the students’
own hypocrisy has cast a shadow on apparently well-aimed protestations.

It seems that Davidson’s student body has expressed impatience on issues which required time instead of voicing protests in areas
where some impatience was necessary to effect change. Certainly the energy which was stimulated during the planning for the recent
chapel walkout could have been rerouted in the area of admissions policy. And the impatience over the probable curfew abolishment
could have been applied to Davidson’s role in extra-campus responsibilities instead.

Recently a few students have shown that they just don't know when to quit, and their actions have served only
to prolong the period of time necessary to effect the reforms they requested. Their actions may have swayed a committee
or the administration to reconsider the rationality of a change in the rules’ structure. In these cases impatience has provided
not a short cut, but a roadblock to any chance of alteration of an undesired system.

Classroom attitudes and the hypocrisy in the expressions of concern during rush have also caused a questioning on our part
of the reliability and sincerity of student requests for change. The casual occurrence of “back scratching” in the reporting of
rush violations and some of the hypocritical attitudes toward the Code of Responsibility seem to contradict the apparent concern for
injustices in campus regulations and social life.

We have found justifiable cause to support the revolutionary efforts of students in the past and will continue to lend
due support to change for the betterment of the college and the community, but we will stand as critics as
well as publicists of the student cause. We make this our aim in an effort to aid the revolution for
advancement, while holding to our right of opinion to express what we feel is “revolting” and what is not.

The Great Snow Job

While Davidson students wrestled with the problem of housing their dates during the great snow, a second group of Davidsonians
were doing an admirable job of coping with another major problem brought on by the great snow. In a successful
effort to reverse last year’s poor performance, Grover Meetze and the maintenance department came through with a remarkable showing in
their battle with the snow and ice on the campus walkways and steps.

As early as Sunday afternoon, while snow and sleet was still coming down, department workers were busy with shovels and
plows to clear roadways and walks. The result has been a minimum of injuries due to falls and slides, whereas
last year students risked numerous injuries due to the accumulation of ice on paths and sidewalks. Whether or not the
prominence of the weekend had anything to do with the rapid solution to the icy problem, the maintenance department deserves
a vote of appreciation for their efforts.

A Study In Contrast

Notice the contrast: Dean Burts on student conduct rules: “I do not expect students to be consulted in the formulation
of these rules.” President Spencer at his installation: “I would hope that we will be able to hammer out solutions
to our problems together, not as students at one corner of the triangle, faculty and staff at another, and trustees
at another.”

Or try the contrast between the faculty constitution, which puts student conduct matters into the hands of a joint student-faculty
committee, and the Dean’s Council, which contains no faculty members, much less students, and is rewriting student conduct rules behind
closed doors. And for what it’s worth, there’s that high-sounding assertion of the student Bill of Rights, that academic and
non-academic regulations and educational policy must be “formulated and applied with significant student participation.”

The Dean’s Council, which has apparently replaced the Student Life Committee, has an interesting background. According to the dean of
students, it was the old Student Life Committee which the new faculty constitution abolished two years ago. But it seems
that this vestige of the old way isn’t going to disappear simply by the unanimous action of the faculty and
approval of the Board of Trustees in voting in that new faculty charter. No mere scrap of paper is going
to tie the hands of the Dean’s Council. In fact, not even the combined opinion of students, faculty, trustees and
the president has had any effect. Like Moses descending from Mt. Sinai with the Ten Commandments, this remnant of past
times has returned to bring word of what the dean’s office by some unknown inspiration deems to be proper conduct
for a Davidson gentleman. And no matter what the new regulations say, what is important is that they are really
administration rules, handed down by edict from an obscure council normally tucked away in some janitor’s closet in Chambers basement
and pulled out now and again to tell students how to act.

We can’t help but wonder where the Dean’s Council picked up its authority to ignore the faculty constitution, unilaterally rewrite
faculty-passed regulations and defy the president’s openly stated policy.

But even more important than this unwarranted assumption of authority is the serious problem of expanding an already wide split
between faculty and students, a division which at worst leads to a Columbia and at best slows the educational process.
Davidson College must be one community, but action like that of the Dean’s Council only divides. The decrees not only
approach the student chapel walkout in irresponsibility — it’s not just students who can be irresponsible — but follow from
a basic assumption that 20-year-old men who have $3,000-a-year invested in a college education aren't really human beings capable of
rational thought and ethical reasoning. Rather, the Dean’s Council would view them as less than human — as kids, or
animals in a zoo.

But then, maybe so. Perhaps the students here are just kids. Enrolling in a school in which rules are decreed
in this fashion suggests at least some lack of wisdom. “For want of a horse the battle was lost...”

INDEPENDENCE BLADE

Riner: Is The Student Senate Being Packed?

ED. NOTE: The following letter is from the student who has asked the Court of Appeals to issue a restraining
order against the Senate Executive Committee until certain constitutional questions over recent actions of the SEC have been decided in
the court.

The recent senatorial elections left the seats of three dorm senators vacant. The SEC then nominated, and the Senate confirmed,
three persons to fill those seats. Just whether the SEC had that power, or whether the Senate has the power
to confirm them, will be decided by the court.

To The Editor:

Are senators meant to represent the students or not? This is the question that I hold as probably the most
vital issue in the SGA this year. After the action of the SEC last week appointing dorm senators for Watts,
Cannon, and Richardson, I don't think we can ignore the SEC any longer, no matter how much we may like
to.

I know well that the opinions of many among us feel that we should let the Senate and the SEC
do what they want, but is this right? The SEC and the Senate are the executive bodies of the SGA,
and we are the SGA. As members of the SGA we should find it our duty to take an interest.
We have too long ignored our responsibilities. We have consistently left all the duties of the SGA to a small
few. This has been the policy for so long that these few elected students think that after they are elected
to office they can go about their merry way and do anything as they see fit. It is no wonder
that the faculty is so hesitant to give away the power (which really shouldn't be theirs) to...the Senate and the
SEC, because actually they represent the student body only for a few days around election day. The case in question
is not a minor issue. The residents of Watts, Richardson, and Cannon are in danger of losing their representation on
the Senate. I am not questioning the abilities of the men appointed by Peter Hobbie and the SEC. What I
am questioning is whether senators are representatives of the students or rubber stamps for the president of the student body.
Students of Davidson College have already lost too much jurisdiction to the faculty. Are we going to let the rest
of it slip through our fingers and into the hands of a few young men with the name of the
SEC?

Phil Riner ‘72
Davidson College

Bryan Criticizes Social Reformers

To The Editor:

It becomes ever clearer that one question alone can agitate the mind and spur the “conscience,” such as it is,
of the gentlemen of this college. It is not the high matter of war and peace which agitates their mind,
not the search for God, or at least for temporal justice, nor even common decency. Rather it is that mundane
and hackneyed question of fraternities. I am glad that there is no matter of greater importance for gentlemen to meddle
with. If there were, the result might be useful to contemplate.

The hope of an impartial opinion in this case is well nigh forlorn. Persons who are members of fraternities are
either convinced of their sublime right to conduct the fraternities as they please, or else have been taught somehow to
believe that their very existence is an offense to God or, what is worse, democracy. Persons who are not members
of fraternities almost to a man regard them with a distaste which all too often lapses into disgust. Consequently, it
seems to me that someone should offer a (more or less) unprejudiced view on the subject. And for that reason,
although it is none of my affair — and let all remember that — I venture the last extremity and
write a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN which, I call all the saints to witness, I would not do were matters
otherwise.

I wish to refer specifically to the remarks of Mr. Todd Hobbie and Mr. Berkley Latimer, quoted in this newspaper
last week. Both of these gentlemen exhibit tremendous lack both of judgment and of taste, as well as almost total
blindness. I note that Mr. Hobbie is quoted as having said that in the fraternities, Davidson College countenances an “exclusivist”
system. I believe that the meaning is clear, although the word “exclusivist,” which, as far as I can determine, does
not regularly occur in the English language, tends to obscure the sense. Nonetheless, I imagine that anyone knowing Mr. Hobbie’s
education and proclivities would accept the statement, and, if he shared those proclivities, even endorse it. However, Mr. Hobbie has
fatally weakened his argument by enrolling in Davidson College, for it is by the very nature of the word exclusive,
an “exclusivist” system. At least it is harder than Hell to get into. That is no doubt one reason why
he chose to come here rather than the University of Arkansas.

We will grant that the fraternities are exclusive. But we will also declare that not only they, but all of
society is equally exclusive. Any man who chooses another for his particular friend excludes some third. Shall I be insulted
because I was the third? In fact, have I myself not done the same thing?

But even were I disposed to concede to Mr. Hobbie's complaint, I should be forced to take exception to the
one ascribed to Mr. Latimer. He maintains that the fraternities “dehumanize” their members. This is utterly offensive, a wholly gratuitous
insult directed toward the greater part of his schoolmates. Furthermore, this is a point which I shall not trouble to
refute. I will, however, suggest that if either some several hundred men or lone Berkley Latimer is inhuman, the statistical
chances seem to indicate the latter possibility. What I mean to say is that Latimer seems to consider members of
fraternities inhuman because they are different from him. Unless he is in fact the image of humanity, his judgment is
fallacious.

Finally, I read that both Mr. Hobbie and Mr. Thomas Opie are of the opinion that fraternity houses might profitably
be used as eating clubs. This is almost as offensive as Mr. Latimer's statement. What it signifies is simply that
these people wish to take possession of what is, in effect, the property of someone else. This is the true
reason for all the attacks on fraternities: you have something I don’t have, and if I can't have one too,
I'll break yours. This attitude is worthy only of the dog in the manger, not of supposedly mature and responsible
Christian gentlemen.

Robert Gray Bryan ‘70
Davidson College

Second Thoughts On Co-Education

Ah, Hysteria, Thou flower of the arts. Who would now deny Thy rightful place among the most scholarly high priests
of academe. Surely your spirit has of late found a resting place here among the magnolias. I speak, of course,
of Thy recent captivation of teachers and pupils with visions of young maidens floating amongst them — beautiful, exceeding intelligent,
sparking all to higher and better achievements. But if I may be so bold, I would like to confide in
you my apprehensiveness in regard to the reality of the proposed inclusion of young ladies in our fair college.

First, it appears that somehow the corporate spirit here has been overwhelmed by a selfishness unparalleled in modern history —
not a breath has yet been spent on what Davidson could do for the young women brought here. The entire
focus of debate to date has been based on an assumption of female peonage — bringing women, like building new
dorms or adding some more drink machines, for the comfort of and at the disposal of the courageous gentlemen of
Davidson. What would life be like here for a girl? Would the girls who came turn into the imagined Cinderellas
at freshman camp?

We see that the coeducation situation at Wake Forest approaches open antagonism at times. At Furman upperclass girls say they
might as well be in an all-girl school when Saturday night comes — televisions are about the same everywhere. Recent
addition of women students at Presbyterian College in South Carolina does not appear at this stage to have worked out
very well. At Cornell University women students claim that even though they’re heavily outnumbered they usually spend big weekends studying
in their rooms. Others leave campus on such weekends. If there is any concern here for this kind of problem
it has been well guarded from public view. Even the sage voice of THE DAVIDSONIAN has spoken only in self-serving
tones. And even more myopically, that paragon of editorial perceptivity has failed to even consider Davidson should think it can
make a contribution in the realm of women’s education.

Exactly why should Davidson take it upon itself to step into women’s higher education? Does this nation, does this region,
need another $3,000 per year, middle-class, private women’s college? If the college has a social responsibility in education to do
certain things it also has responsibility not to do certain things. This may be one of those things.

Several weeks ago Davidson’s president announced a fund drive to raise funds he said were needed “not only for current
objectives such as faculty salaries and library purchases, but also to meet expected demands of the new curriculum...” He said
all these things are “expensive but necessary if Davidson is to meet its commitments to new generations.” Davidson has strived
for excellence in the past. The considerable success in this pursuit is one legacy worth keeping.

When the present student body is housed in inadequate dormitories, when the college is trying to build a new library,
when everyone agrees that the faculty must be increased and strengthened with superior scholars — is this the time to
divert limited financial resources, limited faculty time and psychic energy, and limited knowledge to a gargantuan project which could easily
become the consuming effort of the entire college community for the better part of a decade, if it were done
correctly?

At a formerly all-male college in the East, similar to Davidson in enrollment and endowment, professors in the men’s division
are muttering about how much better their own academic program would be without the outlays to the newly-opened women’s division,
expenditures that have spread resources thin for materials and salaries. Is it possible for us to create a fair-headed, skirted
stepchild of our own that turns into a monster at conception? Like it or not, is such a fate irreversibly
locked in the genes?

Ah, Hysteria, Thou flower of the arts. Thou art as pervasive as the Mid-Winters snow. But I fear that like
the snow when Thy smooth surface has melted away before the full light of day only the muddy problems so
exquisitely hidden will remain.
