Page Six November 7, 1969 The Davidsonian

(Continued from Page 5)

arrived at, obviously not by extrapolating on the basis of the present student-faculty ratio, but by departmental analysis. For example,
a department with relatively low enrollment in advanced courses could absorb additional students in these courses without additional staff and
might require additional staff only for the basic courses. Because the demand of women and the demand of men for
courses differ, the composition of the additional faculty would differ if men instead of women were added to the student
body, but the number required would not differ.

An Assistant Dean of Students (Women), corresponding to an Assistant Dean of Students (Men), would be required in the Dean
of Students’ office. Other personnel requirements would include one Assistant Registrar, two assistants in the admissions office, three instructors and
two attendants in physical education, two registered nurses in the health service, four dormitory counselors, increased secretarial staff, and increased
staff for maintenance and various other services.

Cost and revenue analysis

The estimated changes in current revenue and operating cost that would occur with an expansion from a 1000-student, all-men’s college
to a 1500-student coeducational college are shown in Table II of Appendix B. The increase in total expenditures, or marginal
cost, of $1.3 million is only slightly higher than the $1.2 million increase in total income, or marginal revenue. The
total expenditures for educational and general purposes and for auxiliary enterprises in 1969 amounted to $3.5 million and the total
income from students and auxiliary enterprises in 1968 amounted to $1.9 million, indicating how the ratio of total income from
students ($1.2 million) to total educational and general expenditures ($2.8 million) is less than one half, or 42 per cent,
while the ratio of the increase in income from students ($708,000) to the increase in educational and general expenditures ($761,000)
is in the neighborhood of one, or 93 per cent. After the change, the former ratio would be more than
one-half or 53 per cent.

The above occurs, of course, because 50 per cent more students are served without a 50 per cent increase in
the input of factors required to serve the students. The student-faculty ratio, for example, is increased from 12 to 14.
If there is a reason for keeping this ratio at 12, the faculty would be increased by 50 per cent
and the increase in income from students would be less than two-thirds of the increase in educational and general expenditures,
leaving the ratio of total income from students to total educational and general expenditures at less than one-half.

Capital requirements

The facilities discussed above are shown in Table II of Appendix B. It appears that $5 million would be needed
to provide the minimum amount of housing, physical education, health service, and union facilities needed. To provide a new union
and a new infirmary, instead of expanding and renovating the present buildings, would require about $8 million. These figures do
not include the cost of constructing the new library building and remodeling the present library building. Included in supplementary Appendix
C are reports showing alterations to the gymnasium and infirmary that would be required, a statement concerning dormitories, and a
description of ideal union facilities.

Funding

The above analysis shows that it is possible to finance the increased operating costs from the net income derived from
an additional 500 students without impairing the quality of the job being done now. However, if the current endowment per
student is maintained as the size of the student body grows, income will be available to enrich the educational program
and/or the pressure to increase tuition in the future will not be so great as it otherwise will be. And
the latter consideration appears to be of ever-increasing concern to private educational institutions. To have a proportionate increase in endowment,
the market value of which was $16.5 million at the end of the fiscal year 1968, would require that over
$8 million be secured as enrollment rises to 1500. It should be noted that this does not include the capitalized
value of the College’s trust income (largely Duke Endowment), which is four-fifths as much as the income from endowment. Capital
expenditures incident to increasing the size of the student body would amount to $5 million to $8 million at current
prices. The $3.5 million for dormitories and the amount required for food service facilities could be sought in the form
of a soft loan from the federal government (currently 3 per cent and 40 years). Requests for these funds are
usually three times the amount available, but Davidson's request would seem to be in a strong position inasmuch as one
category of eligible institutions consists of those experiencing a “sharp increase in enrollment,” validated by a substantial number of applications
for admissions beyond the number admitted. Assuming $4 million is borrowed, another $1 million to $4 million would have to
be funded from other sources.

Davidson's becoming a coeducational college is not a matter of patterns vis-à-vis fraternities—whether the disestablishment program of the Commission or
some less drastic route such as subsidizing the competition—I would urge, in conclusion, that we be open and above-board in
dealing with the General Fraternities which have served generations of Davidson students at the invitation of the College for so
many years. If we are to emulate the wonderful programs of Williams and Amherst Colleges, as has been suggested, let’s
avoid their techniques of subverting the fraternity system into impotence. We don't need to emulate their methods.

(Continued from Page 5)

Are we to conclude that faculty committees, admissions acceptance, PBK, varsity teams, pep band, student council elections, newspaper editorial staff
appointments, and student marriages are all free of the criteria of subjective judgment and/or popularity? I respectfully maintain that the
Commission has made no case whatsoever for its recommendation that “fraternities be allowed to pledge and initiate students from (only)
the three upper classes.” This was simply, yet unnecessarily, borrowed from earlier reports, with the new suggestion that the College
Union program would be more successful through the end of school if, in effect, freshmen were continuously prohibited from the
competitive attraction of fraternity membership. The older argument of the early 1960s was that deferred membership would result in (a)
fairer appraisal of the rushees, (b) more invitations to join, but (c) a greater incidence of enlightened freshmen rejecting fraternities.
What happened so far was that (a) prolonged appraisal intensified the pain of not receiving a bid, (b) more were
indeed invited to join, and (c) a greater percentage of enlightened freshmen accepted fraternities. Scratch one theory, and work up
another! Apparently “reform” fraternities is to be acceptable only if it weakens and destroys them. The same sort of appraisal
was expressed about the new “extended rush” program. Heralded earlier as a method of increasing opportunity for fraternity membership, we
are now to reject it because it has worked too well! Whatever new direction Davidson College is to take vis-à-vis
fraternities—

(Continued from Page 4)

The proposed ‘Davidson Summer High School’ provides another opportunity for the College to use its resources to help meet the
educational needs of the local area and the entire State of North Carolina. The Commission believes that if financial support
is available, this proposal should be tried. The Consortium may provide some machinery which may make our participation in certain
enterprises easier. Other cooperative ventures related to higher education, such as University Park, should be investigated as they develop. However,
there may very well be areas in which we can make more of a contribution outside the cooperative projects of
the Consortium, in less time.

CONCLUSION

As a Commission, we have looked into many areas of extra-campus responsibilities. Out of our search, we have centered on
these three areas of concern as areas in which significant contributions can realistically be made. It is in this conviction
that we earnestly make these recommendations as commissioners.

Richard C. Burts, Chm.
Jack P. Etheridge
J. Whitner Kennedy
Edward W. Phifer Jr.
George L. Abernethy
Jon W. Fuller
Joseph E. Kilpatrick
James B. Parks
Lawrence Sladelate that part of the Williams reputation. It was for this reason that I had offered a motion in
the 31st meeting of the Commission that it include the following resolution in its report: “The Commission recommends that copies
of this report be sent to the national fraternities with chapters on at least the Davidson campus, with an invitation
that they convene to discuss the content of the report, its consequences, and their future role at Davidson College.” This
was tabled indefinitely, so I offer it as a major recommendation of the Minority Report. It may be the answer
to a sticky problem with our alumni. If all these fraternity leaders were brought to Davidson as our guests, thanked
for their one hundred years or so of service, shown the merits of our new plan, and told politely that
they weren't wanted, they might heave a great sigh of relief that Davidson College had finally made up its mind,
decide that they had better things to do than continue to prolong an exhausting and frustrating exercise with the Prince
William Wesleyandridsonhersts of this world, and offer to withdraw.

Respectively submitted,
James G. Martin

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496
Phone 892-2111

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Our Selections Of KNITS are just great
COX MOORE
LORD JEFF
JANTZEN
VAN HEUSEN
Alpaca
Lambswool
Orlons
Cashmere
9.00 to 35.00
V-Necks
Crew Necks
Mock Turtles
Collars and Short Sleeves, too.

PACE SETTING TRADITIONALIST CLOTHING FOR THE
John Mack Son
Our 57th Year — Mooresville

an unusual or exciting development in the sense that would attract grants from foundations and individuals, but it is the
conclusion of the Commission that Davidson possesses the fund-raising potential to finance the expansion herein recommended.

APPENDIX A
QUESTIONNAIRES

Questionnaires were distributed to three groups: all students, all faculty, and one thousand randomly selected alumni. The responses were as
expected, with the students and faculty responding overwhelmingly in favor of coeducation at Davidson, and the alumni relatively opposed. Numerous
helpful comments accompanied the alumni responses, as well as some reservations about the usefulness of the questionnaires. Students, especially, tend
to answer questions on coeducation without actually taking into account the consequences of a positive decision on the part of
the College to go coeducational. This is not meant to belittle the usefulness of the questionnaires, for they did reveal
much to us. A brief analysis of the various areas dealt with by the questionnaires follows.

Desirability of Coeducation

Of the 473 students who replied, 84 percent were in favor of attending Davidson as a coeducational institution. This question
was asked of them in order to find out how many students chose Davidson despite its all-male atmosphere (only 2
percent chose to attend Davidson because of its all-male environment). One of the most prevalent comments was that the choice
made was a mistake, and that if the option were available again, the decision would not be duplicated. Concerning the
students’ views towards the advisability of Davidson's becoming coeducational, almost eighty percent of the replies indicated that the college either
should effect the transition, or will have to in order to compete successfully with other colleges in the future. The
response was of no great surprise, nor was the faculty response, in which three-fourths of the responses indicated a desire
for coeducation. The older alumni were the most opposed, while the younger alumni's sentiments were slightly in favor of coeducation
at Davidson. Several reasons were listed in the alumni responses, among which were tradition as an all-male college, the past
and present success of the students without the presence of women, the argument that all-male colleges are still needed, and
the financial obstacles involved. One of the questions addressed to the alumni and faculty concerned the financial feasibility of coeducation,
to which nearly one half of the alumni indicated that it was not feasible, while nearly two-thirds of the faculty
deemed the benefits gained by coeducation worth the expenditures involved.

Admissions

The students believed that having women on the Davidson campus would have a positive effect on the number and quality
of applicants, as did the faculty. 71 percent of the present freshmen would advise an academically qualified younger brother to
come to Davidson if accepted, while only 41 percent of the present senior class would give the same positive advice.
The alumni indicated that having a coeducational student body would not increase Davidson's ability to attract the best-qualified students, and
unlike most of the students who responded to a similar question, believed that the academic stature of the College would
not be enhanced by the presence of women.

Academic Community

Concerning the academic realm, a large majority of students responding did not feel that the presence of women in classes
would distract them or inhibit them, and at the same time rejected the notion that coeds would cause them to
increase their classroom preparation and participation. The faculty disagreed with the students on the latter point; they felt that the
classroom discussion quality would be increased if women were present. Once again from the faculty standpoint, the faculty could see
no significant changes necessary in their present teaching methods.

Social Life

In dealing with the social life, several questions were utilized. A majority of the students regard the present social life
either as “tolerable” or as detracting from education. In response to this merely “tolerable” atmosphere, we found that just over
a third of the students migrate from the campus three to five out of every ten weekends. The students also
indicated that Davidson encourages unrealistic attitudes toward women. A majority of students also revealed that if women were present, the
weekends they ordinarily spend away would be cut in half. This may be a misconception, for we discovered from other
colleges that the weekend patterns at coeducational colleges are nearly the same as those at all-male and all-female colleges; the
men are just as likely to leave their respective campuses to date women from other colleges, and the women tend
to leave on the weekends for other campuses. The alumni, when questioned about the social situation at Davidson, suggested that
women on the campus would be likely to create more problems than they would solve.

Coordinate versus Coeducational

We discovered that students were slightly in favor of a coordinate campus, while the alumni and faculty favored a coeducational
campus, in line with the recommendation of this Commission. The alumni and faculty also heavily favored increasing the size of
the present student body in order to accommodate women, instead of bringing about a decrease of the number of men
for the same purpose, by keeping the size of the student body unchanged.

Professor Frank W. Bliss
Patrick G. Bray
J. McCorkle Davis
Dr. Warner L. Hall
Mr. Charles Mauze
Joseph R. Murphy
Dean J. H. Ostwalt
Mr. Fred L. Smyre Jr.
Professor Charles E. Ratliff
Professor Wilmer H. Welsh

FREE PUDDING WITH DINNER OR LUNCH BOX
FREE SLAW WITH SNAK PAK
WE HAVE CHICKEN, SHRIMP & FISH FOR SATURDAY & EVERYDAY.
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken.
503 S. Broad
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1595

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

M. F. HOLDEN CO.
CHARLOTTE’S NO. 1 Boutique
200 Independence
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

JANIS JOPLIN
“PIECE OF MY HEART”
“BALL AND CHAIN”
SUNDAY NOV. 9th * PARK CENTER * CHARLOTTE, N.C.
CONCERTS, INC. PROUDLY PRESENTS IN CONCERT—IN PERSON
JANIS JOPLIN
7:00 P.M.
TICKETS: ADVANCE $4.50 AT DOOR $5.50
TICKETS NOW ON SALE @ ERNIE’S — HOLLY SMITH — NATIONAL HAT SHOP — RECORD BAR — HI-FI CAMERA CENTER
— RELIABLE MUSIC — ALL MAIL ORDERS TO JANIS JOPLIN, P.O. BOX 583, CHARLOTTE, N.C. 28201.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
