Signatures And Letters

If you have ever arrived early at a Davidson basketball game to watch the freshman team destroying Gaston College or some other local powerhouse, you may have noticed the crowd at one end of the court, where the varsity players sit before going in the locker room to be taped. The crowd consists mostly of sons and daughters of long-time Davidson fans who come early to get our autographs, talk to us, see if we are real, or just gawk at us.

Now some of this column may sound conceited or chauvinistic, but justifiably or not, the Davidson basketball players (especially those who start) are idolized by many a school-aged tyke. Besides the autograph hounds that meet the players during the freshman games, certain players (mostly the handsome ones) receive a good amount of fan mail. Because of our number four rating nationally, the starters and even some of the other players are recognized in public. At certain times this could tend to be disastrous. Still, in this world of numbers and IBM cards, it’s ego-elating to have someone know your name. It tends to make three years on the bench worth it.

I've always wondered what the people who do bother to get our autographs do with them. Although many of the scribbled-on programs probably end up under the broom of a coliseum janitor, I'm sure some of our names are put carefully away in some drawer to reappear later as a flaunt in the faces of the neighborhood gang. I can just see the face of some young fan when he gets older and finds a previously treasured program when cleaning out an old chest. He'll probably laugh and think, “And who was Rock Crosswhite?”

The girls are really the most interesting to listen to when they ask you to write your name. A 12 or 13-year-old girl will come up to you all the time brushing her hair in place with her free hand, and hand you something to autograph. This will be anything from the back of the ticket stub to an autograph book to a stuffed animal. I remember once autographing a stuffed dinosaur which must have weighed 20 pounds. The bright-eyed girl clutching it couldn’t have weighed too much more. Several of the older girls will be a little more bold and ask you to write some cliché and sign your name to it. You may ask Wayne Huckel about certain high school sophomores who get carried away and kiss him after he signs their book.

Fan mail really creates the most humor. Obviously, the starters get most of this attention. Davidson, being a one post-office town, makes it easy for letters to find their way to the players. A simple name and Davidson, N.C., gets the cherished letter to someone's idol. Again, the letters come mostly from girls in their early teens. Huckel and Jerry Kroll probably receive the greater part of these. The girls usually want to know what players are interested in and mainly, if they have a girlfriend and what she looks like. Huckel received a letter last year from a girl in Greensboro who said she was 19 years old and single. The letter included the girl’s measurements, her address, and a picture, which looked strangely like a current movie star. You'll have to ask Wayne if he ever answered that note.

Mike Maloy gets a good deal of mail from 15 and 17-year-old girls. Being in the national spotlight as an All-American candidate, he has received fan letters from across the nation. A girl in Detroit wanted to see him after the Michigan game. Doug Cook and Mike O'Neill get their share also. One girl wrote to Doug and told him that she was doing a school report on basketball and wanted some information. She included a self-addressed stamped envelope for a return. Dave Moser received a letter last year from some little boy who included a crayon drawing of Dave dribbling a basketball. It was really fairly good and Dave put it on his bulletin board.

Occasionally the skins (substitutes) get fan mail but ironically, most of these letters ask questions about the starters. Fox DeMoisey received a note from some girl who wanted to know if Kroll had a girlfriend because he was her favorite, or if Huckel had a girl because her girlfriend liked Wayne. Fox has received a number of heartbreakers but he takes them in stride. The rest of us receive notes at certain times. Usually, these come from boys writing letters for a seventh-grade English assignment or something else. But every once in a while some thoughtful girl or boy will write us as if we were playing. Two weeks ago, a 12-year-old girl wrote me saying that her father told her he was a skin when he played at Davidson. She said if I was a skin like her father then I was her favorite player. It made my whole day.

Upsets Dominate As Betas, Sig Eps, Nus Win Openers

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN’s form chart appeared utterly wrecked Tuesday night as the teams of Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Phi Epsilon all defeated higher-ranked teams. The sixth-ranked Betas pulled off the big upset of the night, defeating top-ranked Phi Delta Theta, 43-40, while the Sig Eps knocked off Phi Gamma Delta and the SAE’s stopped Alpha Tau Omega.

The other games went more according to expectations: Sigma Nu trounced Sigma Chi 65-49, fourth-ranked Kappa Sigma overwhelmed the Independents, 72-55, and powerful Pi Kappa Alpha beat punchless Pi Kappa Phi, 1-0, when the latter team forfeited.

The Delts, two of whose starters were attending the National Players’ Oresteia, held a 30-21 lead at the half by virtue of effective shooting and a fine defensive job on Beta star Johnny Baker by John McCammon. However, in the second half, the Delts were unable to put their shots anywhere near the basket, scoring only 1 point in the entire fourth quarter. With 43 seconds left, the Betas took a three-point lead on Mike Culbreth's free throw, and when McCammon’s looping, driving layup bounced off the bottom of the backboard, the Betas had the game in hand.

The eleventh-ranked Sig Eps relied on 6'4" Kent Rhodes’ domination of both backboards against the short Gamms to take a 41-40 victory. Guard Wade Shepherd contributed the points on a deciding layup. The Sig Eps attributed their victory over the seventh-ranked Fijis to “great defense and strong rebounding.”

SAE held a three-point lead late in the game when the ATO team went into a full-court press. However, the E’s were able to break through the press for a pair of easy baskets which made up the margin of victory in their 55-48 win.

The second-ranked Nus easily ran away from the fifth-ranked Machis, led by the scoring of Toby Westmoreland and the rebounding of high-jumping Calvin Murphy. Guard Bruce Weidner led the Nus’ potent offense. The muscular Sigs easily outclassed the Indies, who had the lead by 5-2 in the opening moments of the game but thereafter were never in contention. The Indie forwards were unable to rebound effectively against their taller opponents, and neither team was particularly sharp on offense. Forward Jim Trevathan led the Indie attack, but the rest of the team joined the ATO’s and the Phi Delts in very cold shooting.

Scott’s Office ‘Unaware’ Of Ticket, Seat Problem

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

No progress has been made this week in the move to improve student seating and ticket sales at the Charlotte Coliseum. The issue came up last week as the result of several student protests over the student ticket and seating arrangement for the Davidson-St. John's basketball game. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college, said last week that he, Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott, and Coach Lefty Driesell would meet soon to alleviate the problem.

This week, however, Spencer was out of town on business and both Scott and Driesell said that they had not been contacted about such a meeting. Scott and Driesell both said that they were unaware of any problem with tickets. When approached about a solution to the problem, which involves a request for better seats and an increase in date tickets, Scott said bluntly, “We have enough tickets for the students, and date tickets aren't really our responsibility.”

Last week a ticket office worker told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the athletic department estimated the number of date tickets to be requested before each game.

The Davidson Wildcats and Wildkittens both make one-game road trips tomorrow, with the varsity meeting VMI in Salem, Va., and the freshmen taking on the VPI freshmen in Blacksburg, Va. Coach Lefty Driesell’s Wildcats, fresh from wins over West Virginia and Wake Forest, place an 11-1 record and a fourth ranking nationally on the line against the Keydets. The freshmen squad, rebounding Wednesday against the Wake Forest freshmen after a loss against South Carolina on Tuesday, take a 7-1 record.to Blacksburg. After blowing West Virginia off the court last week, the Wildcats survived a strong Wake Forest team and a poor night at the free throw line to take a 90-82 win over the Deacon five. Oddly enough, it was the charity line which gave the Wildcats the victory, as the Deacons outscored the Davidson five from the field 66-60. Referees Dr. Phil Fox and Otis Almond whistled 30 fouls against the Wake team and 18 against Davidson. Davidson hit 30 of 44 from the free throw line, while the Deacons could manage only 16 for 24. Mike Maloy and Jerry Kroll continued to dominate the scoring for the Wildcats, as Maloy picked up 27 points and Kroll 23. Doug Cook was tough on the boards, picking up 13 rebounds. McGregor's early foul trouble and his early departure due to fouls allowed him only 27 minutes of playing time.

Inexperience, Flu Slow Winless 'Cat Wrestlers
By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

Hampered by inexperience and the flu, Davidson's wrestling team again failed to move into the win column this week, as they dropped their third match to North Carolina State. The 38-0 shutout in Raleigh followed earlier losses to VMI and William and Mary. This year's team draws heavily on the underclassmen, as all but two members of the starting team are sophomores. The flu has kept several men at less than top condition and necessitated a forfeit against the Wolfpack. Among those out with the flu is Coach Charles Parker. An additional problem hampering the 15-man squad is the lack of size and weight. Senior Kerry Keith, at only 190 pounds, has been forced to face opponents outweighing him by 40 pounds in the unlimited class. In addition, every team member is wrestling one weight class higher than he should, resulting in weight disadvantages. The bright spot of the team so far has been sophomore Jack Jacobs. He won the only points in Davidson's 32-3 loss to William and Mary and has been impressive in the other two matches. In the Keydet match, Frank Rader, at 177, led the Wildcats with a pin. 123-pounder Art Cromartie won a decision and Ron Williams gained a tie in his match in the 26-10 loss at VMI. Keith said this week that the Keydets and William and Mary were considered the two strongest teams in the Southern Conference and said that the squad hoped to do better in this afternoon’s match with East Carolina in the gym. The match begins at 2 p.m.

Two Prep Stars
Two of the top high school basketball prospects in the country visited Davidson last weekend as the Wildcats romped over West Virginia, 102-71. The two prep stars were Brian Taylor, of Perth Amboy, N.J., and Allen Shaw, of Millville, N.J. Taylor is one of the best high school performers in New Jersey basketball history. A 6-2 guard with a 35-point average per game, he scored 84 points last year against rival St. Mary’s High School. Taylor’s 84 points paced a 125-95 victory and came as he hit on 34 of 44 from the field and 16 of 18 from the free throw line. Shaw averages 33 points per game, but the figure which draws Davidson Assistant Coach Jerry Conboy to New Jersey is his 25 rebounds-per-game average. The 6-11 senior and Taylor spoke briefly to reporters during the West Virginia game, and Taylor said he was quite pleased with Davidson's style of play. “I like their run and shoot offense,” he said. “That's my type of game.”

SI To Feature Lefty Driesell
Known all over the country for his acid tongue, Lefty Driesell has long been a topic for sportswriters’ columns. Now, however, he is getting better publicity as he calms down a bit. This week he reached the top. Myron Cope, the dean of Sports Illustrated’s biographers, spent two days on campus this week doing research for a personality study on the Wildcat coach. His article will appear in a March issue of the magazine. Cope has long graced the contents of SI with his humorous sketches of controversial figures in sports. He has gathered material for and published one book on such persons and is working on his second.

The Davidsonian
January 17, 1969
Page Five

(Staff Photo by Weems)
MINKIN SCORES AGAINST SOUTH CAROLINA
Six-seven center scored 21 against Gamecocks.

'Cats And Kittens Face Virginia Road Contests
After a 12-point loss to the South Carolina freshmen, the Wildkittens bounced back in Wednesday's preliminaries to trim the Deacon freshmen, 94-76. Bryan Adrian continued to be the big gun for the squad, scoring 25 points against the Gamecocks and 18 against Wake Forest. Lester Strong had his best game of the season against the Deacon five as he poured in 26 points, by hitting eight for 12 from the field. Six-seven center Eric Minkin again intimidated USC's Tom Riker, a high school All-American last year, as he scored 21 points and grabbed 15 rebounds. In the Keydets, the Wildcats will face a team which forced an 82-72 decision on the 'Cats’ home floor in the season opener. The VMI five is paced by senior guard John Mitchell and will be trying to rebound from a loss Wednesday night at the hands of West Virginia. Coach Gary McPherson will have forwards Denny Clark and Mike Manus covering Davidson's Kroll and Doug Cook, and junior center Jim Gillespie will probably be given the task of guarding Maloy.

Brown Leaves For WVU Post
Davidson football lost one of its top assistant coaches and recruiters this week when Bob Brown announced his intention to accept a position at West Virginia University. Brown, who just this fall moved up from the position of freshman coach to varsity assistant coach, will assume direction of the Mountaineers’ defensive interior line. He came to Davidson in 1968 from a head coaching position at Hargrave Military Academy. Brown, 31, is a graduate of William and Mary. From 1960 until 1967 he served as head football and baseball coach in the U.S. Army at Ft. Knox, Ky. After his tour of duty in the army, he returned to William and Mary to assume a position as football and baseball assistant. He went to Hargrave from that position in 1963. Although the search has begun for his successor in the Wildcat program, no prospects have been named. West Virginia Head Coach Jim Carlen said this week that he was “quite pleased" that Brown had accepted the position, which was vacated by Bill Hicks, who has assumed an assistant coaching position at Baylor. Brown said this week, “I have made many friends at Davidson. It will be very difficult leaving the players we have. However, I feel this was an opportunity that I could not turn down.”

Sporttopics
The Davidson rugby team, though not officially recognized by the college, will nevertheless open its season Feb. 16 against Duke. The game will be played at Davidson. Freshman Zack Mobley and Richardson scholar Mike Lunn are coaching the group of students. The team has been holding practices for several months. Mobley said that he did not expect to beat Duke, which has had a rugby team for some time, but he hopes that the team this year will provide at least a challenge for opponents. The team was slowed several weeks ago when Lunn, the most experienced player on the team, broke his arm in an automobile accident.

The Athletic Department announced this week that all Hummell physical education classes have been discontinued until Jan. 27. Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director, said that the decision to cancel the classes was made after college physician Dr. James B. Woods requested the move because of the increase in cases of influenza on the campus.

The quote of the week comes from West Virginia guard Bob Hummell, following the Mountaineers' 102-71 loss to Davidson. In speaking of the West Virginia offense, he said, “We didn't execute. We got executed.”

Coach Lefty Driesell's recruiting has led him to the discovery of a 6-10 junior college player. Driesell is not expressing any optimism, however, for the sky-scraping sophomore is being chased by a number of colleges.

Mike Maloy almost slept through the Wake Forest game and would have if it had not been for another student, who awakened him at 6 p.m. When told it was six o'clock, Maloy said, “That's all right. My first class is at eight.”

BOB BROWN
... Mountaineer