‘The Davidsonian’ November 14, 1969 Page Five

Booters In Championship Game, Face Colonia Is For League Title
By A. W. TURNER JR.
Assistant Sports Editor

With its sights set on a Southern Conference championship, the Davidson Wildcats face Colonia today. The Davidson defense, marked by Rodolfo Hernandez, the goalie from Colonia, has been extremely strong throughout the match. Bill Horton is suffering from a pulled groin muscle, and Coach Hare has been cautious with his players. Patterson and Bruner were on the bench during the last game at Richmond.

The Colonials have played a tougher schedule than Davidson. They have won 1-0 against teams like Georgetown and American University. If the game goes into the normal two overtime periods, the two teams will be declared co-champions.

(Staff Photos by Thomas)
VERY TRICKY, DICK
Dick LeVan dribbles toward Ed Galloway in soccer practice.

Surprising SPE’s Beat Pikas
By BILL BERRY
Assistant Sports Editor

The Pikas scored four first places but were edged by the Sig Eps, 56-55, for the team intramural wrestling championship Wednesday night. The Sig Eps managed to win by accumulating seconds, thirds, and fourths to reach their 56-point total. The Pikas, despite their four first places, could not match the depth of the Sig Eps.

The second place finishers for the Sig Eps were Paul Peteet in the 126-lb. class, Bill Youkey in 167, and Kent Rhodes in 190. The Pikas' winners were Gary Sigmon in 158, Greg Anderson in 134, Pat Bray in 142, Ken Dixon in 158, and Ray Swetenberg in 190. The Sigs' last hope to win was Dave Traxler, who won his match. The Sigs needed first places to win, but the Pikas won those firsts and edged out the Sig Eps.

Overall IMAC Standings:
1. Pikas - 361
2. Sigs - 297
3. Delts - 285
4. KA's - 275
5. Gamms - 212
6. Nu's - 210
7. ATO's - 190
8. Coterie - 188
9. Betas - 133
10. Indies - 131
11. Pi Kapps - 75

Coach Heath Whittle's Wildcats ended their 1969 campaign by finishing in last place in the conference meet. The William and Mary Indians continued their domination of Southern Conference cross country by capturing their fourth straight title. The Wildcats were seriously hampered by the loss of senior John Puckett, who hurt his leg. The team has several promising lettermen returning, including sophomore Howard Boyd, who was probably the most improved runner this year. Freshmen Ren Clark and Joe Shibley also did an outstanding job.

The wrestling tournament was a strange victory for the Sig Eps, who edged the KA's Carr, 4-2. The Wildcats lose only captain Stagg Newman and have several promising lettermen returning.eta re i core enificantly tered Pucks \ a big factor in 1 Ao ArT ; ( 1 aa the overall IMAC. standin place fini Tor ne : : ) TI i Delt ach Whittle hopes toim ; 1 banque The Phi Delts, who held a see HODES Loa homore Bill Nayl | lead fn the overall re prove pon th ve 1-(j i ; i He Sat Iso en ) : ords after flickerball seas record hext fall, but viewed IR Lot ; eel ‘ LOU made a poor showing in } Caso important ; ia ic wre and — slipped one TENE RUSSO { u a ! Foie : Davidson's hopes her il partici - ¥ & 1" | aatida if All tl bos inproved ter 1970 st ison di a aceane : i Be : sks : BAT ie hey nelre tim n-each succeed Rob Hoy, a junio ile ji Queens in Chai THE BATTLE OF THE BULGES bit GOUT HAMeAC HUE Tell nye mect and I am very en ing a, comebacl 4 also 7 At hit Chip Durant of the SPE‘s works toward a decision over the Pi Kapps’ Zack Mobley. aah tHeciD ella: afiB: ‘i - thusiastic about next year return FRA eral He ae ) ne 1 a ICh , ball 7: y | We -really had too many Looking back on th ea ed toclenve ; aie er 4 ! ve ACK ite ° . ’ , Te € 24 f prac aA se) meets cheduled thiS | fall on, Coach Whittle cited the interstate sand t} i i Irst wi * surpris y , . W ildeats Pre ari Hb oe Su (i (a Offence | ; i ee HERR and weren't able to practice close win over Wake Forest Queen ] {te ly strong S 1 b to) NS og ong finish in the wrest as much as I had planned.” on Oct. 14 as the surprise noon ing tournament . By ‘Stacking’. The Basketball Deck You'd that past think that team gone. 27-3- in finishing points away from the na- tional NCAA playoffs and be- ing among the leaders «in scoring all year long would- n't have many changes to make in its offense. . partic- uarly with the three leading has its season, two scorers returning. Yet the Davidson —hard- court team has done just that in an effort to produce a scoring punch for the Wild- unequalled by else this year. cats anyone The newly devised ‘‘stack” offense has been the subject of many long practice sions and blackboard outs,;—and-—its~ full potential may not be realized until the regular season is already underway. But Ses- wark- What is realized is t} this: theoretically the “stack” will produce an_ offensive that will work against any zone, man-to-man, or press defense something that no college offense has ever been able to successfully do be fore. The offense Is simple relatively The point man brings the ball down court, choosing to go to either the left or the right. As he approaches the basket, the. other Starters Unchosen By Basketball Staff By RUSS MERRITT Sports Editor It's still anybody's guess as to who will win the re- maining two starting posi- tions for the Davidson bas- ketball team, according to the Wildcat coaches. So far in practice sessions started a month ago sever- al players have been con- Sidered as potential replace- ments for last season's sen- iors, Dave Moser and Wayne Huckle. Moser's position at the point is particularly vital, since it is the point that di- rects the team's offense and must completely understand just how each play goes. So far this year at least four men have been experiment- ed in the spot. In place of Huckel will probably be a taller man, partially because of the new *stack"’ offense and partially because the Wildcats will be counting on getting more rebounds. According to the coaching staff, the first team varies greatly from day to day. The players trying for start- ing positions have been play- ing in spurts, inconsistently looking great one practice and poor the next. To the coaches, this is in- terpreted as both a good and a bad sign. Since there is trouble finding two players that can stand out over the others there is evidi that the bench will th be strong. But the ti idly growing near W first team must be chosen, for the team to have confi- dence in all five of its start- ers, particularly the point man. But at least at the moment Terry Holland is in a_ posi- tion that many coaches dream about, that of many good men. The Wildcats will be play- ing many more players this year than in past years, sim- ply because: there will be more people capable of play- ing, according to the coach- es. ‘‘We've got more ‘good prospects this year than in past years, and we'll play everyone that deserves to play. There will be no limit on the number that we play.’ Among the players thaf have been impressive is Jan Postma. Postma,’ who was a leading scorer on the un- defeated Maloy-Kroll-Cook freshman team ‘three years ago, has been “‘coming on Strong, looking great,’ and may be one of the five start- ers. It is beginning to look as if the skin teamhas died, and the shirts reign supreme at last. having too four Gpley ers gather on’ either side of the foul line. On one side, the squad's best one-on-one man, in this case All-American Mike Ma loy, aligns himself against his opponent, while on the other side the remaining three prepare fo set picks, passes, and fakes {o open someone for a shot. Here the potential for plays ere unlimited. For in stance, since Maloy has de veloped a highly accurate shot from around 15-20 feet, it would be impossible for the defense to leave him alone outside. So if a taller man were to be put on-him, Maloy with his quickness could simply maneuver in for an easy shot. Or if a quick man were to be as- signed to cover Maloy, then the high-scoring Wildcat could simply out-jump_ his adversary. Of course, it takes a player of Maloy’s ability to make this aspect of the offense go. Now, if Maloy were to be double-teamed, then natur- ally one of the three men on the stacked side of the of- fense would be able to easily maneuver behind a screen for an open shot. Or the three could pick and roll toward the goal, setting up an easy lay-up. From here the pos- sibilities are unlimited. The offense is designed primarily to accomodate the three things that the Wild- cats do best, including Ma- loy's ability going man-to- man, Cook's remarkably con- sistent Hook shot, and Kroll’s shooting eye from anywhere. ,,earns on charitable projects In second overall the Eps, marily on the basis of their place now are Sig pri wrestling performance The Kappa Sigs moved in to third, also because — of thelt The be juggled again next at the Delts and wrestling finish standings are sure to week The strong swimming meet appear to be could regain the over all lead. The Kappa Sigs and | Sig Eps striking within should the swim Pikas enough in are also distance, well in The well swimming to hold onto their lead. D Club Kicks Off Members Drive they do ming meet will try -to do The Davidson “D" Club will open its 1969-70 mem- bership drive with a new ‘format for the organization according to president Dave Fisher. Fisher said that the club has decided to become a ser- vice organization and spend the money which the club rather than the traditional blankets for the senior mem-} bers. Projects which the club is} considering taking up are spons@ring Little League foot- ball, donations to the day | care center, and a trip for an orphan group to a Da- vidson basketball game. The club will continue to Sell refreshments at the home basketball games but has tentatively outlined several other fund raising projects, as well. Included in these are selling Davidson pennants and pictures of Wildcat bas- | | | | | | | ketball and football stars. As new as tomorrow with deep center vent. A great idea for the TANGERINE BOWL. and as fine as our Wildcat Footballers. Hunter Haig Norfolk jacket is di- stinctively up-dated, patch and flap pockets, body: conforming lines and This Congratulations, Wildcats! on your Conference Champion- ship . . . your courage and comeback is the greatest! Come select an outstanding outfit for the season and for the Bowl game. Clothing For The Pace Setting Traditionalist John Mpck & Son MOORESVILLE