Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1969

A ‘Balanced’ Picture

The “other side” campaign which appeared this week in an effort to challenge fraternity rush doesn’t have a chance. When the accepted bids come back from freshmen Monday morning, the fraternity system’s toehold on Davidson’s one-sided social life will be renewed. America should be so secure.

Joe Murphy’s speech on Tuesday and the series of letters from a group of Independents to the rushees constitute a gratifying effort to give the other side of the picture. But, in the end, it will be futile because the picture they want to balance can’t be balanced. There is really no other side. There is, regrettably, no alternative to the fraternity system here. Either you're in one or you're not, and even the proudest Independent will concede that in terms of material advantages, a fraternity has it all over the Union. What you think of the mystic goodies and the bonds of brotherhood is only secondary.

To use the old line: a typical freshman’s choice is which fraternity to join, not whether he should join one at all. Rush, Murphy noted Tuesday, is a “brilliant display of the worst fraternities have to offer.” It is shallow, superficial and stupid. A five-minute conversation can constitute “knowing” somebody, and on many priority lists, a freshman’s drinking habits and “cool” can count for more than his study habits. Rush hurts everybody involved. It hurts the fraternities because it compels them to impose shallow criteria on rushees, and the freshmen are hurt because those criteria are imposed on them. And, of course, the fraternity system’s most heinous crime is the hurt it inevitably leaves in many of those it rejects.

If there were an alternative to fraternities—if there were something to eliminate a student's predestination of being either a brother or a reject of a system—then maybe the fraternity system would not reek so. It is the responsibility of the college to provide social opportunities, in one form or the other, to everybody, just as it is its responsibility to provide educational opportunities. If it can’t do that through a juiced-up fraternity system, as apparently it can’t, then that system ought to be supplemented or junked. In short, the college owes something more to those whom the fraternity system doesn’t want and those who don’t want the fraternity system. And it is the duty of everybody to see that the college pays up.

The Chance To Gripe

For all the talk about the administration's openness, it is still plenty hard for most students to get through to an administrator to ask him a question or air a grievance. And so both suggestions we heard this week on that very matter bear some attention.

The first came from President Spencer himself. He suggested that he and the two deans appear periodically at chapel to answer questions and clarify policy. The same sort of thing was done at Mary Baldwin, he said, and it worked very well.

ROTC’s

For months now, the best defense of compulsory ROTC at Davidson has been: make it voluntary, and it will perish. Surveys taken of military science students here by the ROTC Department make it clear that going voluntary would indeed reduce drastically the number of students in the program. Furthermore, the department contends that it would be impossible to maintain a program here without a certain number of students. The argument, which may be valid, has been enough to convince the trustees to stay with a compulsory program. While the trustees undoubtedly see many evils in ROTC, particularly compulsory ROTC, at Davidson, they have maintained that it is better than no program at all.

But perhaps we are jumping to conclusions in assuming that a smaller program could not survive. A telephone survey this week of four other schools with ROTC departments reveals that, at least elsewhere, ROTC can survive with reduced participation.

At Texas Christian University, which has over 2,000 male students in its student body, the professor of military science reported 82 first-year students, 38 second year, 34 third year and 40 fourth year. TCU’s program is voluntary. The University of Tennessee went voluntary less than two years ago, one of its military instructors told us, “and if anything, the number of commissioned officers has picked up.” He reported 130 third-year students and 118 fourth-year at UT.

The other came from the University of Chicago, which has recently instituted the position of student ombudsman. The student in that position will receive student grievances and, at his discretion, bring them to appropriate people or institute investigations. He will issue quarterly public reports describing in general what his activities have been. Either one of the schemes would probably have prevented the embarrassing cafeteria fiasco last month, not to mention other problems, and for that reason we'd be glad to see either one, or both, in effect here.

‘Survival’

The most encouraging word came from the PMS at Bowdoin, a school in Brunswick, Me., that resembles Davidson in many respects. At Bowdoin, which has a senior class of only 200, the ROTC program is doing well despite the fact it has only 20 seniors, the PMS said. Bowdoin's program has been voluntary since 1950.

A parallel with William and Mary would not be fair, perhaps, since the student body has some 2,000 males. But the assistant PMS there told us there were 147 freshmen, 100 sophomores, 90 juniors and 81 seniors in the program, voluntary since 1947. And he struck a blow for voluntary programs in general: “To be worthwhile, there should be sufficient student interest and motivation.”

Compulsory ROTC is wrong. A college with a Christian commitment has got no business requiring military science of its students, especially a college that says, in a much ballyhooed code, that its students are men of responsibility, capable of making their own decisions. Consider also the case of one outstanding student who did not come to Davidson because of ROTC. One of the finalists for a Rhodes Scholarship this year said that compulsory ROTC here was “the most significant reason” he chose the University of Virginia over Davidson. In light of compulsory ROTC’s basic incompatibility with Davidson and the success of other schools with smaller, voluntary programs, perhaps our own institution could stand another evaluation.

On Being Propositioned

Sarah Lawrence has a proposition. She wants men.

Steady there. Sarah Lawrence is not a girl—she’s 300 girls, in a college in New York. And she says she needs men. A dozen male transfers are already studying at the previously all-female institution, and for next year they want 65 more. It's step 2 in the college’s implementation of a coeducational program.

Judging from the college’s official information release at least, Sarah Lawrence has a lot to offer a guy. Enough, certainly, to induce a Davidson man away from his life of barren weeks and suitcase weekends. There’s more at Sarah Lawrence, however, than its most valuable resource, girls. Consider these for teasers: small classes, no required programs, no rigid system of prerequisites, no competitive grading system, much field work, and community service. Davidson lacks in those only a little less than it lacks in girls. Interested? Catalogues and applications can be had by writing to Miss Alice M. Bovard, director of admissions, Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y., 10708. Deadline for applications is Feb. 10.

‘Maybe You'd Like To See Our Coke Machine’

Waste

By DAVID SWEATT Managing Editor

Davidson students who will soon be officers in the military would do well to take notice of some of the situations they may face there. Some will find themselves disenchanted with the military itself, no doubt, and anxious only to serve their time and return to civilian life. What is important is that they not become a part of the problem. And indications are that there are great problems in the armed services today. As short-term soldiers and long-term citizens, there is implicit in military service the obligation to observe the things that are wrong and try to correct them.

Last week it was disclosed that members of the armed forces were part of a fantastic graft scheme that stole more than half the gasoline and jet fuel the U.S. sent to Thailand in a single year. The amount stolen was worth about a million dollars. A striking amount, we would say. Yet how much more money leaves the public coffers in unnecessary expenditures for the military every year? A case recently brought to light demonstrates howeasily such a misuse of public funds can be effected. The USS Puget Sound, a new destroyer tender, was commissioned at Bremerton, Washington last year and promptly brought to the east coast where its crew is being reduced to a minimum — the ship to stay in Boston harbor. Taking the ship out of operation might seem a waste, but the move came at a time when the Navy was effecting a service-wide "economy drive." The painful part for the taxpayer is the top-level sleight of hand that during this economizing period ordered extensive alterations on a ship only a few months old for making it more presentable as a flagship. These alterations on a ship designed as a flagship! According to one officer on board, the Navy Bureau of Ships refused a request to make the beautifying alterations before the ship left the civilian shipyard — the civilian price tag for the work: a fat 2.7 million dollars. An enlisted man took it upon himself to question what he and most of the ship's 1200-man crew considered exorbitant changes. Not only were the alterations unnecessary, but unsafe as well, in his judgment. Since the ship is a tender, she had sufficient men and material to make even such large-scale changes. Work was scheduled around the clock. It has been in progress for a number of weeks. Escape hatches have been closed off and one large non-regulation hatch installed that limits to one the possible route of escape for the men who work in that section of the ship. Ponderous bulkheads have been moved. Water mains for fire protection have been moved. Priority electrical switches, because they were unsightly in their wall positions, have been put behind a false ceiling, concealed and out of reach. Wood paneling, carpeting, and soon-to-be-installed brass handrails now grace the entryway. The enlisted man’s attempts to question what appeared to be capricious fiat from the admiral in command led him finally to his congressman. His letter to the congressman brought speedy reaction and he was called up for an extended "interview" with several of the ship's brass. Several letters were exchanged between the enlisted man and the office of Rep. Mendal Rivers, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and also the enlisted man’s congressman, and several other letters never got through. The reaction of the commander who ordered the work was a letter which failed to answer in any detail the questions as to the circumstances and authorization for the work. Can he get off that easily? The enlisted man returned to his ship after Christmas to find that he had suddenly been transferred. What happens now? The sailor says he will try one more time to get some satisfaction from the office of Congressman Rivers. If he gets no satisfaction then, he may try other channels. Is this the way it will end? Is this the way other such cases are "resolved"? Capricious expenditure has no place in the armed services when some enlisted men still earn a poverty wage. It has no place in the budget of a nation that still has not met the basic survival needs of all its citizens.

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

The Making Of An Independent

Welcome, freshmen Independents. By Monday, you'll be a part of the invisible brotherhood. The absence of a pledge pin will be your badge. To be sure you make it, here’s a checklist of attitudes and appearances you should effect. Rush isn’t quite over yet, so read this carefully. Otherwise, you might get a bid, even.

The making of an Independent starts long before he ever arrives at Davidson. A certain naivete is vital. First, you must believe that people are basically sincere and that mere appearances are not important. Second, an aura of sexual and social virginity is necessary. Just remember that there are 10 Independent studs and that Independents know nothing whatsoever about winning friends and influencing people. Third, prior to your arrival at Davidson, practice the pose of an intellectual. Intellectual pursuits must be much more important to you than boozing and broads, or any of the fleshly pastimes. You must arrive at Davidson with a well-practiced scholarly pose. Fourth, to be an Independent, there are some things that you absolutely may not be: a hard-core jock, and an all-round good guy. So with this in mind, develop some neuroses and the proper physique. Everyone knows that Independents are psychological kooks. And for Independency, thinness almost to the point of emaciation or gross overweight are definite assets. Just don’t let anyone ever think that you get any exercise, ever. You might be mistaken for a jock, which is a definite disadvantage.

Now, upon arrival at Davidson, with all your social ungainliness intact, here’re a few hints to assure your membership in the invisible brotherhood. First, approach the question of fraternities with a completely open mind. Honestly believe that you will be judged for what you are, not what you appear to be. Believe that your own good qualities of sincerity and integrity will be noticed and appreciated. Second, meet as few upperclassmen as possible. Concentrate on making wide friendships within the freshman class, but avoid forming close friendships with shallow and slick classmates. Just remember that there are no slick Independents, and be sure to appear as gauche as possible to the upperclassmen who may stray across your path. Third, know as little about the fraternities on campus as possible. Be sure to consider each house on the court and honestly believe that the same consideration will be given you. Fourth, be sure to be impressed with the academic reputation of Davidson, and study like hell. Date as little as possible, or if you date, date the biggest pig available. Never, absolutely never, be seen at any place or function where people are socializing, especially when beer and liquor are being consumed.

And now for a few hints for you would-be Independents during rush. Appearances are vital. Wear the shabbiest coat and tie you own or can borrow, preferably with white socks and black unpolished shoes with very pointed toes. Don’t get a haircut, shave hurriedly, and eat lots of chocolate so you can raise a nice crop of pimples. Talk about your class work constantly. Appear nervous and ill at ease. If you can manage it, spill a cup of punch on something, or someone, especially the rush chairman. Don’t wait to be invited: ask to see the basement or the fraternity’s scrapbook.

So if you've played the game right, and paid attention to all of the cardinal rules of the game, by Monday you’ll have made it. You'll be an Independent. Just remember to laugh about the whole situation. You may have just blown your chances for a viable social life for the next four years, but you weren't really interested in that in the first place, were you? Or were you?

INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL
ALPHA TAU OMEGA
BETA THETA PI
DELTA THETA PI
GAMMA DELTA
All rushees don’t get bids. Those who don’t are sent letters such as this one from PI KAPPA ALPHA
PI KAPPA PHI
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
SIGMA CHI
SIGMA PHI EPSILON
BOX 627
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

REJECTED rush two years ago. Mike Bece was the 1966-67 IFC president.