LEFTY SPEAKS TO “ELK RHA (See Page Four)

Taft: Nixon Style A Spur To Hope
By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Asst. Managing Editor

Congressman Robert Taft Jr. presented a broad outline of the shape of things to come under the Nixon administration in assembly yesterday. Professor Jon Fuller of the Political Science Department introduced Taft, describing him as “one of the most impressive and dynamic members of the new Republican leadership in Congress.”

Taft, a deliberate, methodical speaker, touched briefly on the recent unrest on many college campuses. “There is always a risk involved in coming to a campus,” he said. “You can either get locked in or locked out.” He endorsed Nixon's “rule of reason” policy on campus disorders, adding that order must be maintained internally by the college.

Moving into the main area of his talk, what he termed the “style of the Nixon administration,” Taft generally sketched the future guidelines of American policy in both domestic and foreign areas. “The world scene dominates us,” he said. “Under the new administration there is new hope in the hearts of men.” The new administration, he said, is in a position to re-establish dialogue in foreign relations, thereby ending what he termed “the policy of reaction where we are determined by external factors; we will now be able to take a more effective role in foreign affairs.”

Taft also said that he was in favor of continued development and deployment of an anti-ballistic missile system, although he said later that his knowledge in this area was sketchy.

Taft said that on the domestic scene the emphasis will be on “helping people to help themselves. Economic and social problems are interrelated, and I foresee a multi-faceted attack.” The only time Taft drew applause in his 30-minute speech came when he mentioned that the Nixon administration is considering abolition of the draft in favor of a volunteer army.

The congressman called for confidence and at least initial support for the Nixon administration. “The tone of the new administration is one of activism and balance,” he said. “The very attitudes and position of President Nixon deserve initial endorsement and cooperation.”

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1969

(Staff Photo by Weems)
ROBERT TAFT
Ohio representative discusses Nixon administration.

DAVIDSONIAN REPORT STUDIES THE ‘Y’ (See Page Three)
NUMBER EIGHTEEN

Report Discloses Athletic Spending
By ROBERT PYEATT, Associate Editor

Costs of maintaining subsidized athletics at Davidson are over $300,000, according to information released in a student questionnaire distributed by the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics this week. The statement lists the cost of football as $241,493, with $122,044 of that going for scholarships for football players. Basketball costs $56,360, including $35,330 in scholarship costs. The cost of all other sports

Sees Limited Threat From Applications Decline
By STEVE WILLIAMS, Staff Writer

The total number of applications for admission to Davidson have been on a declining trend since 1965 while the number of strong applications have remained fairly stable according to H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid. White also said that applications for admission in 1969 have been running ahead of the previous year at this time for the last three or four months. Last year's total was the lowest ever, but the total number is not important, White said, since the difference has been “almost totally in weak applications.”

The reduction in weak applications is due to better guidance counseling and the competitive nature of Davidson, he said. White gave several other possible explanations for the decline, one of which was that there were not as many students ready for college in the years of the decline because of fluctuations in the birth rate. The relatively high costs of a private college as compared to state-supported institutions may discourage some, and Davidson's not being a co-educational college may discourage others, he said.

From 1965 to 1967 applications from students in the top 10 percent of their class in public schools increased by 44 while total applications from public schools dropped by 150. This supports the idea of a decrease in weak applications, yet in 1968 the public school figure of applications from students in the top 10 percent of their class dropped by 103 from the 1967 figure. White noted that this is a bad comparative figure. “It doesn't necessarily imply that one class is weaker than another,” he said. “You also have to take into consideration the statistics of the enrolled class in relation to the statistics of all applicants for a particular year. This statistic is not half as important as what the enrolled class does when it gets here,” White explained.

There are 206 students from the top 10 percent of their class (of public schools) in the freshman class this year and 204 in the sophomore class. When asked if he felt that the requirement of a recommendation from the applicant's minister or the admission policy in general discouraged diversified student applications, White replied, “It probably discourages some, but when an applicant writes and says he can't get that recommendation we allow them to substitute someone else. Many things tend to discourage applicants. Requiring three achievement tests discourages many. The problem of filling out an application at all discourages some.”

(See WHITE, Page 6)

WHITE . . . quality, not quantity

Senate Defies In Potpourri
eration and reevaluation of academic credit for the mili-
The Senate confirmed two apparently illegal nominations submitted in defiance of a restraining orderWednesday night, and made recommendations on basketball seating and voluntary ROTC. Reaffirming its stand in favor of voluntary basic ROTC, the Senate suggested to the faculty a joint committee to make proposals to the trustees in May. In addition, “close consid-

QUO VADIS? Apathy Fails To Stop SGA

AN ANALYSIS By DANNY WHITE Associate Editor

Much has been written concerning the role of student government at Davidson but the basic fact remains that most students know little and care less about the activities of the SGA. As the SGA begins its second year of existence, just where does it stand and what function does it perform for the students that it represents?

In the old student council days, student government was a drab concept implying good guys who won the honor because of their popularity. The last student council president, Tom Earnhardt, began the actual change in the concept of student power that was climaxed by the passage of the Code of Responsibility.

Student government made its first great strides at Davidson in the initial administration of Joe Murphy whose overbearing personality was the backbone of the SGA. The results were such changes as drinking on campus and open dorms.

Now beginning its second year, the SGA is undergoing birth pains. While Murphy ruled singlehandedly last year, Peter Hobbie cannot and actually should not rule in the same fashion this year because of the defiance of several upstart senators. And this is the way the SGA Senate was designed to operate—it should not be the one-man organization which by necessity it was last year.

Currently, the Senate operates on a committee basis and the whole Senate meets only every three weeks to act on committee recommendations. However, just how well are students represented by their government and do they really care whether they are or not? In the idealistic rhetoric of the SGA Constitution, the SGA (See BIRTH, Page 6) is listed as $90,200. The physical education budget is $79,420, according to the report. Athletic grants-in-aid are not based on need, as are all other scholarships. They are given solely on the basis of athletic performance at the discretion of the coaches.

Much of the cost of maintaining the subsidized status of basketball and football would exist even if these sports were not subsidized. Coaches’ salaries are included in the commission's cost as $55,669, and basketball as $43,583. The report also does not include income received from the Living Endowment. Several years ago the college discontinued the policy of accepting gifts specifically for the athletic program, according to Business Manager Robert Currie. Instead, 34 percent of contributions to the Living Endowment goes into athletic scholarships. Last year's Living Endowment contributions totaled about $236,000, of which about $40,000 went for athletic scholarships, Currie said. The 1964 Treasurer's Report lists $73,444 as the amount of the Living Endowment going to athletic grants-in-aid.

Football suffers a net loss in game costs, according to the report, which places the loss at $2,599. Basketball shows game profits of $63,293. Even if coaches’ salaries are not taken into account, basketball does not make a profit, as is commonly believed. Excluding coaches’ salaries, the football program costs $185,824. If the amount received from the Living Endowment is deducted from that, the approximate cost of maintaining subsidized football at Davidson is $103,000. Applying the same criteria to basketball and deducting coaches’ salaries, subsidized basketball costs about $12,781. It is difficult to determine how much the operation of a non-subsidized football and basketball program would cost. Some students who now receive athletic grants-in-aid would be eligible for academic scholarships. The Commission questionnaire notes that utilities, maintenance, and depreciation are not included in the athletic costs. Currie said that these expenses are not calculated for any instructional or educational part of the college.

Yale Coed-Week Given ‘Accolade’ By DICK ANDERSON Staff Writer

Moderator magazine has awarded its GLOF Award (for general lack of fiber) to the students at Yale University for their recent Co-ed Week. Co-ed Week involved bringing 700 women from eastern girls' schools to spend the week as Yale female undergraduates. Moderator cited such procedures as the following as reasons for the award:

Aviam Soifer, the Yale student who headed up Co-ed Week, said, “A lot of guys think of women simply as objects or dumb broads, but they're human beings, too." One Yale student (unidentified) proved the truth of the first part of that statement by telling one girl that he was convinced that “girls folded up and disappeared from Sunday evening to Friday morning.”

Yale men were supposed to vacate their suites for the girls, but some apparently vacated only their bedrooms, with the result that at least one girl had to dress in the closet. One visiting co-ed volunteered to write a story for the Yale student newspaper. The editor thereupon assigned her to cover the Abe Fortas Film Festival, which consisted of seven films that had first been screened by U.S. Senators attempting to prove that Abe Fortas approved of pornographic movies. This co-ed was also invited to eat at one of Yale's Secret Societies, which are eating clubs with a very traditional outlook. The Yale man who took her to the club pointed out an old Negro servitor whose father and grandfather, the student said, had also served the society. The co-ed replied that “something like slavery, isn't it?" She then took off for Radcliffe, her college. Yale plans to admit 500 women next fall. Moderator wished them good luck.

Outlaw Receives Legion Of Merit

Col. Fredrick B. Outlaw, head of the ROTC Department at Davidson College for five years, will receive the Legion of Merit Award during ceremonies here Monday. Maj. Gen. W. H. Craig, deputy commanding general of the 3rd U.S. Army, will make the presentation following a luncheon in Outlaw’s honor at the College Union. Since there is no outdoor drill during the winter term at Davidson, a traditional review of the troops will not be held, according to an ROTC department spokesman. The award, one of the highest given to members of the Armed Forces, recognizes men “who have distinguished themselves by outstandingly meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services.” Outlaw is to retire from active duty in July.

Born in Birmingham, Ala., in 1913, he attended Columbia Military Academy and Birmingham Southern College, enlisting in the Army in 1935. During World War II he served at Guadalcanal, New Georgia, Bougainville, Tinian, and the Mariannas. In peacetime he has had numerous assignments, many in the field of training troops, and directed several exercises in Puerto Rico during 1952-54. Prior to coming to Davidson, he was assigned to UN Forces in Korea as Inspector General, Headquarters 8th Army.

CORRECTION

Due to an oversight, Berkeley Latimer’s name was omitted from last week’s DAVIDSONIAN listing of the six seniors chosen as Wilson designates.