DRIESELL JOINS PRO-COED FORCES (See Page Four) YOU, TOO, CAN BE AN INDEPENDENT (See Page Two)

Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1969 NUMBER ELEVEN LVIII

AED To Scan College

The Academy for Educational Development (AED), a nonprofit corporation which advises educational and other institutions on ways to improve operations
and to plan for the future, has been contracted to make a full-scale study for Davidson. President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr. made the announcement Thursday.

Spencer, in his installation speech Oct. 11, had called for the college to contract an “outside agency . . .
to help develop an overall design and to recommend procedures for dealing with such vital consequential considerations as financial management
and campus development.” After considering several possibilities, the college administration has decided that the AED would best fulfill its requirements,
the president said.

The academy will also work with the five study commissions requested by the president to investigate a number of basic
questions facing the college, such as coeducation and intercollegiate athletics. The AED plans to deliver its recommendations Sept. 1 after
studies made between now and June, Spencer noted.

The academy’s proposal to Davidson, which the college has accepted, calls for “a comprehensive study which would examine all aspects
of the college and make detailed recommendations concerning the college's future.” Among the areas examined would be the overall aims
and goals of the college, organization and administration of the college, faculty resources, business and financial management, development and public
relations, the student situation, public service, the new curriculum and new educational opportunities, facilities and space utilization, instructional arrangements, utilization
of resources, and planning.

Staff members from the academy office in New York will coordinate the study, drawing on the advice of a special
team of education consultants for the project, Spencer said.

Only FCC License

IFC HANDS OUT DATES
Freshmen in rush receive fraternities’ invitations.

WDAV-FM

NOT SPY! WHAT SECRETS DO YOU YIELD?

PUBLIC ENEMY NO. 1: AT&T?

If this sign posted over a phone in the Davidson ROTC Department is any indication, it looks as if the
Army is tightening security around its campus training programs. In any event, the department is worried. One ROTC instructor began
a class this week by insisting that the department did not start the Vietnam War.

Senate Revises Bylaws, Approves Visiting Hours

Revised election bylaws and seven members of the coming constitutional convention were approved by the student Senate Wednesday afternoon as
the Senate squeaked by to a quorum. Also adopted by the Senate was the Residence Hall Association’s Constitution, as approved
by the faculty Student Life Committee.

Revisions in election bylaws moved all election dates to Tuesday instead of Wednesday and condensed the electoral process to two
weeks from the previous three. Elected to the convention were freshmen Cecil Burney, Danny Clodfelter, Todd Hobbie, and Jody Turner;
sophomores Dick Allison and Gary Cash; and junior Franklin Anderson.

The RHA constitution permits open dorms at any time between noon and midnight, as often as the dorm's house committee
decides. The constitution lacks an open door rule, which the first version contained. All the senators present voted for the
constitution, but the large absenteeism actually made the vote in effect 16-7, exactly the vote needed for approval.

Elected to a Union food committee to oversee operation of the cafeteria were Independents John Reisner and Sterling Abernathy and
freshmen Russ Merritt, Terry Hirst, and Jim Glennon.

In other action, the Senate discussed the question of student seats at basketball games, and passed a resolution requesting that
spare work-study employees of the college be assigned to the student government. Absent were Whit Ayres, Covey Carter, Chip Clark,
Ed Dobbs, Dan Herd, John Passmore, and Floyd Strand. However, several absent senators said they were not notified of the
special meeting.

SGA COMMENDED

RUSH CONTINUES

Greek System Questioned

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

Pondering a two-pronged attack on the fraternity system, 271 freshmen return to Patterson Court tonight for the second round of
rush parties. After three more preliminary parties tonight, the rushees will be issued redate cards tomorrow morning, then go through
a third and fourth round of parties tomorrow afternoon and Sunday afternoon. Bids will go out Monday morning.

Meanwhile, the campaign of the Greeks’ opponents to present “the other side” has continued. A group of 37 Independents aiming
“to present the case for your being an Independent” distributed the first in a series of mimeographed letters in the
freshman dorms last night.

The other affront to the fraternity system came Tuesday in a chapel speech by Student Body President Joe Murphy, an
inactive fraternity member. Murphy pointed to what he called the “absurdity and artificiality” in the fraternity system, labeling it a
“false crutch.” Rush, he said, is a “brilliant display of the worst fraternities have to offer.”

Luck, Donations Hurry Project

By ROBERT ELLIOTT
Staff Writer

Within a month perhaps, Davidson will have its own campus radio station, WDAV-FM. By then, luck, the generosity of an
alumnus, and the work of sophomore Ed Dobbs will have been combined to make the project a reality.

Dobbs said Wednesday that the only thing that is holding up the station is its receiving a construction permit from
the Federal Communications Commission and this could take a short or long time. “It will be a matter of luck
as to when the FCC handles our application,” Dobbs said.

The mobile radio unit that students may have seen parked near the College Union was donated by Davidson graduate John
Trask. Trask runs radio station WBEU at Beaufort, S. C. The truck will be stripped of its equipment, including its
transmitter. Dobbs said, “We have an offer to buy the truck, which we hope to sell for $1,000.” This, along
with a Union grant of another $1,000, will give the radio adequate starting capital.

“Next week a form will be passed out in assembly for students to give their preferences for station programs. This
poll will determine to a great extent what type of programs we will have,” Dobbs said. He then added that
some programs will be educational, but nothing like “Deutsch in five easy lessons.” “One interestingThe corrected OCR text is as
follows:

---

The program we'll have will be "Night Call." Our station will hook up with a regular station in New York.
"This station in New York will call up some controversial figure, and through this setup, any student will be able
to talk to this guest and ask him any questions he wants to." Guests have included John Lindsey and the
late Martin Luther King Jr. The station will operate from the old PRAM office in the Union. A committee of
five faculty and administration members, and four students form the board of (See RADIO, Page 6).

Citing the "overpowering influence of the prevailing opinion in a fraternity," exclusiveness, and the "divisiveness" that fraternities produce within the
student body, Murphy called for another solution to the "problem of social life at Davidson."

"Enough time has already been spent formulating piecemeal, stop-gap measures designed to save fraternities, not to solve the problem of
social life at Davidson. It is up to us now to work together, not as fraternity men or Independents, but
as Davidson students, to find and implement the best possible solution to the problems of social organization and social life."

The Independents' letters to the freshmen are an effort to "present a balanced picture," leader Peter Hobbie told a group
of some three dozen Independents and ex-fraternity members Monday night. "Some of it (the material in the letters) is tongue-in-cheek,
some of it is outright criticism," he said. "But it is not some kind of conspiracy, not a cloak-and-dagger attempt
to wreck the fraternity system. We (the Independents) think we are in a position to make the campus rethink its
social responsibility."

Randy Phillips Awed, Wins Rhodes Award
By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

"I guess there hasn't been time for the full impact to hit yet. I feel like I'm walking in the
clothes of giants." These were the words Randy Phillips used to describe his feelings on being named a Rhodes Scholar.
Davidson's ninth Rhodes Scholar since 1950, Phillips received word of his selection just before Christmas. Soon after the announcement, he
received a letter of congratulations from Dr. Benjamin R. Lacy, a Davidson Rhodes Scholar in 1905, who had advice for
his younger colleague and some anecdotes to share about life at Oxford.

The Rhodes Scholarship will enable Phillips to pursue a two or three-year course of study in the honors history program
at Oxford University. His study will lead to a BA degree in modern European history. The Rhodes award caps a
long list of honors for Phillips, including academic honors, the cross country team, the presidency of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity,
membership in the Student Life Committee and Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity. Phillips also serves as the head of Davidson's
STEP program.

Four Davidson men applied for Rhodes Scholarships: Wayne Huckel, Paul Gallis, Charles Skinner, and Phillips. Final selection was made after
interviews described by Phillips as "surprisingly low-key, considering the circumstances." After completing his studies at Oxford, Phillips plans to finish
his military obligations and work toward a PhD at an American university.

State ABC Board Reconsiders Request Of Davidson Proprietor
By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

A Davidson grocery owner who wants to sell beer and wine in the town limits appeared before the State Board
of Alcoholic Beverage Control yesterday in an effort to reverse the board's decision to refuse her a permit. Mrs. Colleen
Norket, who owns the Davidson Grocery on Depot Street, attempted to show why she should be granted the permit, despite
some local opposition. The state board is expected to render a verdict within a few days.

Representing Mrs. Norket at the hearing was attorney J. Melville Broughton Jr., a well-known North Carolinian who was defeated by
Bob Scott for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination last May. He presented the ABC board with about a dozen letters of
recommendation and character reference from local citizens on behalf of Mrs. Norket.

The Davidson Town Council, which opposed Mrs. Norket's application both formally and informally, apparently did not send a representative to
the hearing, which was held in Raleigh. Last fall, the council passed a resolution opposing the sale of alcoholic beverages
in Davidson, and Mayor F. L. Jackson offered to reimburse Mrs. Norket for her application fee if she would withdraw
her application, according to Mrs. Norket.

Mrs. Norket's initial application was turned down by the state board early last month. However, state law allows the applicant
30 days within which to appeal the decision. Two years ago, another North Mecklenburg grocer—Cashion's in Cornelius—was initially denied a
beer and wine permit by the state board. However, when Cashion's appealed the decision shortly thereafter, the board granted the
permit.

Deepening Or Stifling?
Davidson and the church, particularly the Presbyterian Church, U.S.

Is the church, as some say it is, irrelevant to the concerns of higher education? Or can church affiliation add
depth to an institution through the church's influence on social ethics and college requirements? Davidson's church relationship will be examined
in a three-part series by Associate Editor Charles McEwen. It begins next Friday.

PADA Chapter Receives 3rd Place Civic Award

The Piedmont Area Development Association of Davidson has won third place among village PADA chapters in North Carolina in community
achievement. At the annual PADA dinner in Charlotte last month, winners in the farm, rural non-farm, village, and urban categories
were announced. The predominantly Negro civic group in Davidson was cited for its work in beautification and in improving housing
conditions. The PADA was also awarded $100 by the state organization to continue its work in this direction. Mrs. Mildred
Lowery, president of the Davidson PADA, said the group hopes to use the money toward establishing a community center in
the old scout building on Griffin Street.
