WEEKEND CLEAR
Friday: Sunny, cold. Low Friday night 28 degrees, 10% chance of rain; cloudiness.
Saturday: Increasing warmer, high 48 degrees.

LV Committee Alters Recent Decision On ‘Cut’
By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

The Faculty Executive Committee Monday revoked its announcement of the previous Friday that students who had cut more than five chapels during the term would be called before the Faculty Executive Committee to “justify (their) continuing at Davidson.”

The announcement had been made in a letter to all students who had exhausted their quota of three cuts before the first week in February. It had warned these students that they would be campused for 30 days upon taking their fifth cut, and would be called before the Faculty Executive Committee after the sixth cut.

New Rules Still Being Debated

Administrative approval is all that is lacking for a new set of administrative rules which were put into final form at a meeting of the Dean's Council Wednesday, according to Richard C. Burts Jr., dean of students. The present fraternity curfew rules are not included in this new set, in effect, abolishing this rule. However, before this change — and any of the new rules — becomes effective it must be approved by all members of the administration, said Burts. Those who must approve the rules are Burts, Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., and Business Manager Robert A. Currie. Approval is expected at a meeting of the administration early next week. The meeting was delayed because Spencer was out of town this week.

The rules were drawn up by the Dean's Council at the request of Spencer. The council is composed of Burts, James J. Terry, assistant dean of students, Scott Woodmansee, college chaplain, Mrs. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing, C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, and Samuel F. Boyte, assistant director of the union.

Policy

The announcement was withdrawn after protesting students swamped the dean of students’ office Monday. Members of the Executive Committee were reluctant to say whether their action was in response to student agitation. But Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. stressed that the faculty group had rescinded its ruling because of widespread misunderstanding and misinterpretation on the part of both students and faculty.

The chapel cut policy now remains unchanged. A student loses half of his chapel cuts for the next term if he overcuts once. If a student cuts chapel after that, he is campused for 30 days. Burts said that he hoped the move would relax tension caused by compulsory chapel controversy and the walkout of about 75 students at chapel last Thursday. Both student leaders and members of the Faculty Executive Committee expressed hope that no further actions would be taken by students or faculty to aggravate the situation. Burts pointed out the committee might view further walkouts as “protest for protest’s sake,” rather than as legitimate means of calling attention to a problem.

The whole matter of chapel cuts and compulsory chapel is now under study by a joint student-faculty committee. The current wave of student protest against compulsory chapel began on November 5, 1968. (See CHAPEL, Page 6)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1969

MID-WINTERS ‘69

FOR A WEEKEND
Brief escape from segregated scholastics.

Where It’s At

FRIDAY
8 p.m. Concert: New York Rock and Roll Ensemble, Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Movie: “Sound of Music,” Morrison Room
11 p.m. Joel Keyes and Group, Union Lobby
10-2 That Place Behind, Morrison Room

SATURDAY
8 p.m. Concert: Ian and Sylvia, Love Auditorium
10-2 Hungry I, Morrison Room
10-2 That Place Behind, Morrison Room
2-4 a.m. Breakfast with Pervis Lee, Morrison Room

MID-WINTERS IN PREVIEW (See Page Three)

NUMBER SIXTEEN

Lack Coed Week Plans Absent Members Stall Convention
By BIFF FINE
Copy Editor

The Constitutional Convention continued to flounder in procedure Wednesday night as the necessary one third of the delegates required to pass revisions was lacking for the third time in four meetings. Although at least 25 voters are necessary to pass revisions and only 17 members were present, Chairman Dick Allison held the convention in session for discussion of amendments and tentative votes on reforms.

The two meetings previously convened without the requisite members were also devoted to discussion and straw votes. The convention has now expressed its opinions and position on most of the amendments three times, but no action has been taken to bring the measures any nearer to a referendum than they were when the convention first convened.

Franklin Anderson, vice chairman of the Court of Appeals, presented a printed copy of a proposal for a College Council to each of the members present. The College Council proposed would consist of six students and six faculty members with the president of

Fraternities ‘Thinking Local’; ATO’s May Take The Plunge

At least three campus fraternities have taken their national affiliation under study, and one of them — Alpha Tau Omega — announced this week that it was “seriously considering” going local. ATO Vice President Greg Simmons told representatives of nine fraternities, meeting Tuesday at the ATO house, that his house was pondering a local move “but that is not to say that we will do it.” A special evaluation committee headed by Simmons has been studying the matter, Simmons said, and the ATO’s “wanted to see what other fraternities are thinking and doing, too.”

The other two fraternities with committees are Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi Epsilon. The Sig Ep committee is studying its membership selection process and related matters as well as the national-local issue, President Randy Phillips said.

The Negro Counselor Presents Black Students’ Problems
By DICK ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Joseph C. Champion is the counselor at the predominantly Negro West Charlotte High School. He is a moderate man, but he has strong feelings about the duties of a college to its community and particularly to the culturally deprived students of the area.

“The first thing you've got to do is decide how to define the expression ‘culturally deprived,’” Champion told Davidson College's Commission on Extra Campus Responsibilities last week. “Some of our students are from ghetto backgrounds while others are from what we blacks would call affluent backgrounds. Which ones are culturally deprived?”

Champion also stresses the difficulty which white admissions officers have in communicating with black ghetto youths. “Many of our students don’t do well on WASP-oriented admissions tests made up by white Anglo-Saxon Protestant educators,” Champion told the commission, “but they could still handle higher level work.”

Champion said that frequently black students do not care how they do on admissions tests because they do not think they will go to college anyway. Champion believes that Davidson needs to seek out and recruit these students. To the commission he suggested that they obtain copies of recruiting reports put out by such institutions as Columbia, the University of Wisconsin, and Harvard.

“Harvard sends recruiters down here fairly often,” Champion said. “Davidson came here once, didn't get anybody that year, and gave up.

“I’ve recommended Davidson to our students before but the admissions office has been overly cautious. They would seem to have some sort of quota system, taking only the top of the class," said Champion. “If we can have graduates attending Stanford, Amherst, and Harvard, we still might be able to find one or two or three out of 1700 who could go to Davidson.”

Champion feels that Davidson’s only real disadvantage is that it is an all-male school, and that prospective Negro students might be put off bythe resulting lack of social life. On the other hand, he says that there is no question about the college's academic strength, although “you need black professors to prepare students for integrated life after graduation, and you need an Afro-American studies program. How are you going to understand the black man unless you know his history? A lot of white students would agree with me on that.” Champion is a graduate of North Carolina A&T, a Negro institution in Greensboro. He has attended graduate school at Columbia University, UCLA, and UNC-CH.

Sig Ep study began two weeks ago. The Sigma Chi committee, established late last month, is restricting its discussion to the local-national relationship and its ramifications, committee member Bill New said. The Sigma Chi's will be investigating their financial set-up, the concept of fraternities here, and possible faculty administration reaction, New said.

ATO representatives said at Tuesday's meeting that any local move would be prompted by the desire to free the fraternity from national-imposed financial obligations and ritual requirements. “If we went local, we could decide how we wanted to spend our money, rewrite our ritual, and possibly change our membership selection procedures,” senior Jim Cooley said.

Curfews Suspended

The Dean's Council decided Thursday to suspend the fraternity house curfew rule tonight and Saturday night during Midwinters weekend. According to a letter circulated from the Dean of Students’ office to all fraternity presidents, “Your friendly administration announces that for the coming weekend during Midwinters, on an experimental basis, a curfew will not be enforced.” The letter said the Union would remain open throughout the weekend at all times. James J. Terry, assistant dean of students, emphasized that the rule is only experimental and the regular curfew will be in effect Sunday night.

“Mystic goodies are for high school — they’re kid's stuff,” Simmons said. Representatives of other fraternities at Tuesday's meeting, however, pointed to a number of benefits afforded fraternities by their national offices. Pi Kappa Alpha President Sam Tallman cited the “financial discipline” that nationals provide, and he said that arguments against the blackball and ritual were “trivial, since actually you can circumvent those.” Tallman said, however, that he is “personally, pro local.” He and the other fraternities’ representatives agreed that the ATO's “are in some respects a special case.” The ATO representatives told the group that their fraternity's ties with alumni are weak, since it is a relatively new chapter, and that they do not count heavily on financial assistance from their national organization.

The college acting as chairman. It would take precedence over the Senate and the faculty committees in the government of the college community. The matter was not debated because the convention lost its quorum, 17 members, before the proposal reached the floor. The only proposal to pass through the convention was the revision of the procedure of selecting the executive committee of the Senate. This amendment received 25 votes by signature on a petition passed to members of the convention and was passed by the students in referendum last Thursday.

DICK ALLISON . . . chairman

Policy Problem Snares Senate

By DANNY WHITE
Associate Editor

The SGA Senate shuddered through a change in leadership Wednesday as new SGA President Peter Hobbie presided over his first Senate, a meeting highlighted by a debate over the appointive powers of the president and the Senate Executive Committee (SEC). Before the debate, which was sparked by the SEC nominations for Senate appointed committees, the Senate heard a report from John Williams on the affairs of the Educational Policy Committee. Williams told the Senate that he felt students had been “badly burned” by the faculty’s negative vote on the question of self-scheduled exams. The proposal has since been referred back to the Educational Policy Committee, of which Williams is a member, for further study. Williams also told the senators that their proposal on voluntary ROTC had been sent to the Educational Policy Committee from the office of the dean of faculty.

The senators managed to appoint the Senate Executive Committee before they broke into debate over other SEC nominations. The SEC will include Peter Hobbie, Tom Opie, Todd Hobbie, Cecil Burney, Sterling Abernathy, Dan Herd, and Rich Cowart. A coalition of senators headed by Jim Hinshaw, Cecil Burney, and Gary Cash opposed the remaining nominations on the basis that they in effect gave the SEC legislative power and also the Senate too little power over appointments. Burney said that the SEC meeting had been rather superficial and had not really measured the merits of those that signed up. Hobbie argued that the SGA Constitution allocated all nominating power to the SEC and gave the Senate only the power of confirmation. He also expressed his disappointment in a Senate that would be involved in minor legal hassles and neglect the real duties of its representative institution. Hobbie’s argument failed to carry and the Senate decided to send the nominations back to the SEC for further study.

Jewett Heads Study

An eight-member committee working toward a possible experimental coeducation week here in May got an endorsement from the student Senate this week and a unanimous pledge of support from the Residence Hall Council. The committee, organized and chaired by freshman Jonny Jewett, was also installed as an official SGA committee. Tentative plans, contingent upon the approval of the faculty and administration, call for some 200-250 girls to visit here in early May, Jewett said. The week is being planned on an exchange basis, he added, whereby an equal number of Davidson students will visit the campuses from which the girls come. He said feelers had already been sent to Agnes Scott, Converse, Hollins, Mary Baldwin, Randolph Macon, and Sweetbriar. The visitation idea has been tried by a number of schools, particularly in the East. Last year, Yale, which recently decided to admit female students on a regular basis, hosted several hundred girls for a week. Princeton did the same this year.

(See COED, Page 6)

DECISION PENDING

The Commission on Coeducation was still considering endorsement of the Coed Week proposal last night and had not reached a decision at press time.

Coffee Cup Still Divided

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

The Coffee Cup restaurant in Davidson may no longer be strictly segregated, but the barrier that still separates the two sides of the establishment remains something of an enigma. Mrs. Bryant Sigmon, whose husband operates the restaurant, said the partition is just a coat rack. However, the rack effectively divides the dining room into two separate parts. Several Davidson students have tried to sit on the “colored” side of the room, but have been refused service there. Mike Roth and Jim Blair, who have tried to eat there several times, said they have usually had to move to the “white” side to be served. “Mrs. Sigmon gives a different reason for making us move each time,” Roth said. “Several students have been served on the ‘black’ side only after long delays and after repeatedly asking to be waited on.” Negroes apparently are served on either side of the partition, however. Tony Knox of Johnson's Barber Shop said he has been served with no trouble on both sides. Mrs. Emma Payne, a waitress in the Wildcat Den, said that local Negroes know they're not welcome on the “white” side, though. With reference to white students being refused service on the “black” side, she said, “You just paint your face next time you go in there, and they'll serve you on that side, all right.” Ken Norton, proprietor of Norton's Barber Shop, said that he too has eaten on both sides of the partition, but that he does not feel unwelcome there. “I don't believe the Sigmons are trying to discriminate,” Norton said. “The coat rack stays there because there is no other place to put it.”