Esleeck, Paladins, History YF Pose Threat To Wildcats

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

If history really does repeat itself, then Davidson's high-flying Wildcats had better swoop a little higher to avoid being shot down tomorrow afternoon. That's when Davidson visits Furman’s inspired Paladins in the Greenville, (S.C.) Memorial Auditorium.

The situation was very similar five years ago when Davidson, nationally ranked in the top 10 and having lost only one game in the last second, took the court against the lowly Furman team. That game, played on a concert weekend in the middle of February, promised to be another Wildcat romp. Davidson, led by a high-scoring junior center and sporting a previous big win over Furman, was looking forward to the next game, which happened to be against Duke. Besides, the Wildcats had just wrapped up the regular-season Southern Conference championship with two impressive victories over conference opponents.

When the fray was finally over, however, it was Furman, and not the once-proud Wildcats, on the right end of a 70-55 decision. Lefty Driesell isn't taking any chances this time, though. Driesell had the Wildcats in peak performances in Davidson's most recent games as they whipped George Washington, 126-98, and Richmond, 114-95. Richmond's volatile coach, Lewis Mills, had a lot to yell about in the Wildcats’ most recent win as Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Steve Kirley beat the Spiders blue, combining for 70 points and 32 rebounds. The victory gave Davidson the conference regular season title for the fifth time in the last six years.

In tomorrow's televised contest, the Wildcats will have to contend with the conference's second-highest scorer, Dick Esleeck. Esleeck, who won all-conference honors last season and seems slated to do the same this year with a 24.7 average, is also second in the conference in free throw percentage, sinking 80 percent of his charity tosses. Besides Esleeck, Davidson will see two new faces. Joe Brunson, a junior college transfer center who is second in conference rebounding only to Maloy with a 14.1 average, was sick during Davidson's win over the Paladins earlier this year, and Curly Selvy, youngest brother of head coach Frank Selvy, just became eligible at the semester break. Steve McCammon, along with Selvy a backcourt starter, is the second leading scorer for Furman, hitting 14.1 points a game. The other starter is 6-5 forward Jim Daly who is averaging just below 10 points a contest.

Furman brings a 7-14 record into the game. However, the Paladins are presently tied for fourth in the conference with a 5-5 mark, winning the last four games against conference competition. Davidson has won the last 10 games between the two schools. That gives the Paladins a motive for revenge. The Davidson encounter begins a four-game home stand for Furman, giving Furman that much more incentive.

* Sporttopics *

All-American Pete Maravich will be a counselor in Lefty Driesell’s camp again this summer. Maravich, the nation's leading collegiate scorer, will participate in the camp all four weeks. The camp will be held June 22-28, June 29-July 5, July 27-August 2, and August 3-August 9.

Gordon Slade was named as the most valuable player by his teammates at the football team banquet Tuesday night. Others receiving awards were Sandy Brenneman, awarded the Armfield Blocking Trophy; Lewis Homer, who received the LaFar Defensive Award; and Sam Gwynn, chosen for the Loyalty Award.

Mike Maloy was named as the Southern Conference Player of the Week last week for the second time this season. Maloy, in Davidson's victories over West Virginia, Dayton, and George Washington, tallied 82 points, including the last second basket that beat Dayton.

The week's best quote comes from a Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel headline, which read “No Violence On TV? Just Tell GW That.”

Davidson rifle team scored a double victory last Friday in a three-way match against Clemson and Wofford. The Wildcat gunners outshot Wofford, 1199-1158, while Clemson's shooters failed to show up for the match, giving the Davidson team a victory by forfeit. Tom Maxwell led Davidson with a 251 out of a possible 300. The win left the Davidson team with a 3-1 record.

BENCH ROCKY CROSSWHITE

13 Mojos And A Shoestring

With the advent of red shoestrings in the players’ basketball shoes, a new chapter in superstition and witchcraft has been written. If you have seen any of the last four Davidson basketball games, you may have noticed our flashy crimson shoestrings. This is only one in a long line of maneuvers to give us the edge over our opponents. Lefty, having a job which is based on the whims and feeling of young men between the ages of 18 and 21, has always resorted to that mystical zone of superstition, and you can’t really blame him. Whether he believes in this or not, he generally acts in a way which he believes will bring ‘good luck” as opposed to “bad luck.” With his record as evidence, maybe the U.S. Government should try his methods.

Did you know that any player getting a haircut on the day of the game is bringing “bad luck” to the team? This is not to discriminate against barbers or their families but just a truth. It seems that several years ago, someone with the team had his locks trimmed the day of the West Virginia-Davidson game in the Southern Conference tournament. The team had a record of 24-1 at the time and after Davidson lost that game Lefty wouldn’t speak to the delinquent individual for two weeks.

Sometimes we use this superstition to keep our hair long. Having a full schedule of games, it is hard to find time for a player to get his hair cut. Of course, this brings criticism from certain people like a Durham sportswriter who said that his first impression of the Davidson players was “that they all needed haircuts.” It is apparent that this writer hasn’t heard of our secret to success. I mean, look what happened.

In addition to the haircut superstition, there is the matter of the good luck Mojo. For the uninformed, a Mojo is a black plastic figure of a cat. You are supposed to rub it for good luck. Lefty carries his Mojo everywhere he goes. Two years ago when we were not doing as well as we are now, Lefty gave a Mojo to each member of the team. We were supposed to rub it and it would bring us success. He also gave one to Doug Cook who was having problems with freshman math. I lost my treasured Mojo a week after it was given to me. Maybe that’s why I haven't played since. After we won the Michigan game this year, Lefty was rubbing his Mojo in the locker room. I noticed that the tail was broken off and I inquired how it happened. He told me it broke off during our ill-fated game against Duke last year.

There are several other superstition routines we adhere to when playing for Lefty. We always eat black-eyed peas on New Year's day and never have anything to do with the number 13. You'll notice that none of our games are scheduled to fall on the 13th of a month. We never stay on the 13th floor in motels or hotels. It’s amazing that Lefty permits Wayne Huckle to wear a jersey with the number 13. I always figured he would have given me that number.

These superstitions have influenced the whole team. We usually think whether our actions will have any effect on our “luck.” Even the skins, who must have been born on the wrong day or something, rely on superstition to help the starters in close games. We have a regular seating order on the bench which has been developed over a number of years. For example, I sit next to Fox who sits next to Tony and so on. When the shirts are playing badly or losing, the skins switch the seating arrangement on the bench during the timeouts to find a better combination for bringing luck to our comrades on the court. Unfortunately, we never found the right combination when we played Iowa two weeks ago.

I prefer not to pass judgment on the effect of our superstition maneuvers. Maybe the little tricks give some players confidence, which is what the game is all about anyway. But if we keep winning there’s the Armfield Blocking Trophy; Lewis Homer, who received the LaFar Defensive Award; and Sam Gwynn, chosen for the Loyalty Award.If history does indeed repeat itself, then Davidson has got a battle on its hands. (Staff Photo by Weems)

NOW LEWIS, IT’S JUST A GAME
Richmond Coach Lewis Mills draws technical foul.

The Davidsonian
February 14, 1969
Page Five

Ex-Packer Joins Gridiron Staff
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

The vacancy on the Davidson football coaching staff, which was created by the departure of Bob Brown to the University of West Virginia, has been filled. Turnley Todd, a former University of Virginia star, has joined the Wildcat staff and will assume the duties of offensive line coach.

Todd, a 27-year-old native of Charlottesville, Va., attended the University of Virginia and received his bachelor and master's degrees there. He was captain of the football team in 1963 and was an All-ACC performer at center that year. Being a seventh-round future draft choice of the Green Bay Packers, he signed with them in 1964. He was also drafted by the Dallas Texans (now Kansas City Chiefs) of the AFL, but he chose the NFL club.

Facing the difficult task of breaking into the Packer defense, Todd performed well at the offensive center position. However, he was traded to the New York Giants during the 1964 season. A knee injury forced him to undergo surgery, and the Giants released him. He finished the season with the Philadelphia Eagles.

He has had previous coaching experience at Virginia as a graduate assistant in 1965, and last year as an assistant to Bill Elias at Navy. When Elias was released by the Navy, Todd became available for a coaching position. "Joe Mark, a Navy assistant, told me about the job here, and after I met and talked with Coach Smith, I accepted the position," he said.

Three main reasons brought Todd to Davidson. First, the academic background of the school influenced him. Secondly, he was favorably impressed with Coach Homer Smith and his staff. Finally, he wanted to return to the South and settle here with his wife and two children.

When asked about his plans for next year's football season, Todd said, "I hope to develop an aggressive offensive line which will balance our running and passing attacks. We have a fine quarterback, good receivers and backs, and the line needs to open holes for our runners."

Nus, Delts Still Leading IMAC Basketball Play
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

At the end of this week, the Sigma Nus and Phi Delts continue to lead in IMAC basketball. Each team has sustained a single loss. In one of the only two games played this week, the Nus raised their record to 7-1 with a 62-41 victory over the SAE's. The Nus played consistently throughout the game and lengthened their lead with each succeeding quarter. The Nus' scoring was very well balanced, as Toby Westmoreland scored 13 points, John Oliver 12, Steve Hayes 11, Bruce Weidner 10, and Calvin Murphy 8.

In the other Monday game, the Kappa Sigs whipped the KA's, 70-60. The game was not so close as the score might seem to indicate. The outcome was settled for all practical purposes by halftime, by which time the Sigs had raced to a 40-17 lead. Bob Niebauer led the Sig scoring with 23 points. Tommy Norwood followed with 13 and Mike Kelly with 10. Lou Williams scored 24 for the KA's.

The Sigs achieved another victory last Friday with a tremendous second-half rally to overcome the Sigma Chis, 75-69. Down by 13 points at the half, the Sigs came to life behind the scoring of Tommy Norwood and Mike Kelly to get the win. Norwood finished with 27 points and Kelly added 20, 13 of which he scored in the final quarter. Pete Norton had 29 points for the losers.

In other Friday games, the Pi Kapps forfeited to the Phi Delts for their seventh forfeit in nine games, and the Sig Eps trounced the Betas, 71-55. The SPE's were only ahead by five at the half but rallied behind the scoring of Fletcher Hartsell and Wade Shepherd and the rebounding of Kent Rhodes. Hartsell and Shepherd scored 28 and 20 points respectively.

The remaining teams in the league were idle this week. Following the Sigma Nus and Phi Delts in the standings are the Pikas, 5-2, the Sigma Chis, 5-3, the ATO’s and Sig Eps, 4-3, and the Kappa Sigs, 5-4.

In Freshman play, Cannon 3 has wrapped up the title in one division while Watts 3 and Cannon 4 appear to be headed on a collision course for the championship of the other league. Both Cannon 4 and Watts 3 are undefeated and meet next week as Freshman action draws to a close.

Tankmen Swamp Rivals Behind Newton, Steele
By ALEX GORDON
Sports Writer

Jim Newton's record-breaking performance in the 100-yard freestyle highlighted the Davidson swimming team’s successful road trip in Georgia this past weekend. The Wildcats captured wins over Emory and West Georgia by scores of 60-44 and 55-44 to bring their record to 4 and 2, including four straight victories. In each win, the tankmen have grabbed nine of the twelve first places.

By swimming the distance in 51 seconds flat, Newton broke by .6 of a second the record set last year by Jack Steele. The feat is especially remarkable since Newton had never done any competitive swimming until after Christmas of this school year.

Jack Steele was Davidson's only triple winner in the meet. He swam a leg for the victorious 400-yard medley relay team, won the 200-yard freestyle event, and took the 200-yard butterfly. The Wildcats had four double winners in Bill Woodson, John Cronin, Mac Davis, and Jim Winn. Woodson took both the 1000 and the 500-yard freestyles. Cronin swam in the 400-yard medley relay and captured a victory in the 200-yard backstroke. Davis, after anchoring the 400-yard medley relay, came on to win the 50-yard freestyle event. In addition to swimming a leg on the 400-yard medley relay team, Winn won the 200-yard breaststroke.

Against West Georgia, Coach Tom Stevens was able to do some experimenting with his material. The final score is misleading in that it does not reveal the ease with which the Wildcats won. Two highlights of the meet were Woodson's fifth straight win in the 1000-yard freestyle and Cronin's fourth straight triumph in the backstroke. Cronin also helped the 400-yard medley relay team to victory. Steele, Winn, and Earl Robinson took two victories apiece. Steele won the 200-yard individual medley and the 500-yard freestyle. Winn captured the 50 and 100-yard freestyles. Robinson anchored the 400-yard medley relay team and won the 200-yard butterfly. Ben Lacy and Kurt Geisinger swam two other legs in the 400-yard medley relay, while Newton captured the 200-yard freestyle.

The Wildcats will be trying to extend their winning streak to five this afternoon against a tough Citadel team. The meet begins in the Davidson pool at 3 p.m.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Wanted: College Students (men and women) for camp counselors for Coastal Boy’s and Girls’ camps, June 15 - August 23. Excellent character references and ability to instruct in camp program (sailing, motorboating, aquatics, land sports) required. Good salary according to age, experience, and college classification. Room and board furnished. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to:
Wyatt Taylor
Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer
Post Office Box 10976
Raleigh, N. C. 27605

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY
Watch Repairs
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Cashion Gulf Service
Complete Auto Service
Phone 892-9306
Open 6:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St.
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-9496

Men, now is the time to Buy Luggage
Sale Ends Sat., Feb. 22
Our 57th Year
Mooresville

Do Not Miss This!
Never Before could you buy the entire American Tourister Tiara luggage for 25% off
30.00 Attache Bag 22.50
30.00 Club Tote 22.50
33.00 Overnighter 24.75
35.00 Week-ender 26.25
58.00 3-Suiter 43.50
24.00 Car Bag 18.00

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson