(Staff Photos by Weems)

MALOY SCORES AGAINST DUKE
All-American goes over Randy Denton.

Avenging Gobblers Seek Win Against ‘Cats
By DON PARMAN
Sports Writer

The Virginia Tech Gobblers invade Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow with revenge in their eyes. The Gobblers, one of the few teams
to hold a winning record against Coach Lefty Driesell, are primed to avenge last year's 81-76 loss in the Coliseum.
Tech will have to be flying high to match the Wildcats who are coming off an 86-80 overtime win against
Duke Wednesday. If they match their 71 percent shooting percentage in last year’s game, they could be just high enough.
The ‘Cats gave Driesell his second win against his alma mater as Mike Maloy led the come-from-behind effort with 28
points, including the free throw with three seconds to go that sent the game into the extra period. “The difference
in the game,” said Driesell, “We played a great game in the overtime. I just loved it.”

Tech coach Howie Shannon didn't love his game Wednesday night as his Gobblers dropped a 78-77 decision to the Richmond
Spiders at Richmond. Bobby Ukrop hit a layup at the buzzer for the victory. The loss was the Gobblers' first
in six starts against Southern Conference opponents, including an earlier home court win over Richmond. Shannon called this season a
rebuilding year but said the Gobblers had “a lot of excellent talent.”

Pacing the Gobblers is 6-4 Chris Ellis, who Shannon calls “one of the finest players in the area.” Ellis is
a good ball-handler and passer. He is the leading scorer with an 18.9 average on a 46.4 percentage from the
field. Dan Wetzel, a 6-8 senior center, leads the balanced Tech rebounding with 8.7 a game. He is the number
two scorer with a 13.0 average and a season high of 29 against Clemson. His 48.5 percentage from the field
is the best on the Tech squad. Lloyd King, a 6-1 sophomore guard, is the man Shannon turned to replace
outside shooting but excellent ball handler and defensive player Gil Combs, Tech's leading scorer. 6-6 Ron Wagner and Dan Kerrick
supply help on the boards with 14 rebounds a game between them. Both are hitting in double figures for the
year. Kerrick is strong after being redshirted and is one of the players coming on strong after a preseason ankle
injury.

The Gobblers’ strong point is the balance of scoring and rebounding. Each of the five starters has been the high
man at least once during the season. Wagner was the top offensive man on the squad as a sophomore. Tech
has been strong on defense, giving their opponents only 40.2 percent of their shots from the floor. Wetzel and Kerrick,
the two big rebounders, have had a tendency to get into foul trouble.

‘Look’ Chooses Maloy For All-American Team

Mike Maloy, Davidson's high-scoring center, has become the third Wildcat basketball star to be recognized as a collegiate All-American. “Look
Magazine,” which annually names 10 of the best college basketball players to its All-America team, announced last week that Maloy
is one of this season's selections. Other Davidson players to receive the honor were Fred Hetzel and Dick Snyder. Both
went on to be awarded with other All-American trophies. Joining Maloy on this year’s squad are UCLA's Lew Alcindor, LSU's
“Pistol” Pete Maravich, and another area star, Charlie Scott of North Carolina. So far this season, Maloy has scored at
a 23.8 rate while averaging about 14 rebounds a game. He is considered to be one of the best all-around
players in college today. Several coaches who have seen Maloy play this year are overflowing with praise for the junior
from New York City. Bucky Waters, coach of West Virginia, said that “Maloy is a one-man wrecking crew. Mike is
one of the outstanding players in the nation.” “He’s one of the great ones,” commented St. John coach Lou Carnesecca.
Pete Carril, the head coach of Princeton, stated that “there are a lot of big stars and names around the
country, but when the going gets tough, Mike Maloy is exceptional. He's a terrific scorer both inside and out and
brutal on the backboards.” Look cited that Maloy has been the recipient of many honors through his sophomore and junior
years. Among these honors are All-Southern Conference, MVP in the conference tournament, All-NCAA Eastern Regional, and an invitation to attend
the Olympic trials as a sophomore.

Watts 3, Cannon 3 Win Freshman IMAC Titles
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The regular season of freshman intramural basketball ended this week with Watts 3 and Cannon 3 atop their respective divisions.
Both teams sport perfect 5-0 records. The runners-up in each division were Cannon 2 behind Watts 3 in Division 1
and East 2 and East 4 in a tie in Division 2. The freshman teams have begun a playoff tournament
in which the winner and runner-up in each division participate. In the first round, the division winners meet the runners-up
in the other division. The winners of these two games will meet for the freshman championship on Monday night.

If statistics mean anything, Watts 3 is the most impressive team in either league. They have the highest scoring average
of any team in either division and also lead the league in team defense. Their average margin of victory is
a whopping 20 points per game. A balanced attack and a strong bench have been the secrets to the success
of the Watts 3 team. Grier Newlin leads the team in scoring with a 14.8 points per game average. Other
players who see considerable action are Bill Colvin, Jeff Lynn, Eddie Vint, Richard Neal, and Bill Naylor.

Cannon 3 exhibits only slightly less imposing statistics. They are second in the league in average margin of victory at
10.7 points per game. Their top scorer has been Stephen Battle, whose 18 points per game average is second in
the league. The leading scorer in the league is Steve Culbertson at 18.5 points per game. He is followed by
Battle, Randy Parker at 17.8, Jim Montgomery at 17.0, Scott Nicholson at 16.4, Newlin, Jim Roy at 13.7, Hugh Gaither
at 12.3, Hal Mapes at 12.3, and Trip Adams at 12.0. It is interesting to note that Culbertson and Parker,
the first and third leading scorers, boost the Machis, who recently knocked the Pikas out of contention for all practical
purposes, and the KAs, who have recently begun a surge behind the leading scorer in fraternity play, Lou Williams.

Unsung Clark Boosts the Kittens
By BILL BARNHILL
Sports Writer

Much has been said of the freshmen scholarship ballplayers—Minkin, Hill, Adrian, and Strong—the players with the greatest chance of graduating
to the varsity. But underneath this publicity is a fifth man, Frank Clark, who quietly and convincingly gets the job
done game after game. Clark combines a fierce desire and competitive hustle to help bring victory to the ‘Kittens. According
to Coach Holland, “Frank complements our scholarship players nicely. He is sound in all phases of the game, particularly foul
shooting, and gets the job done. He is not as spectacular as Adrian or Hill, but he knows what it
takes to win.”

Frank, a native of Myrtle Beach, S.C., has always loved sports. Amazingly enough, his first love was baseball. Describing himself,
Frank says, “Until high school, I never fooled too much with basketball. Most of my free time was spent playing
baseball in the neighborhood.” “But as high school had much new in store for me, I soon realized that basketball
was the sport. Basketball was more of a team sport and you always got more of a crowd at games.”
So Frank started playing more and more basketball. Once an uncoordinated gangly kid, practice has made him a mature, polished
6'5" forward. Often called by his teammates “stick” or sometimes “fat man,” his slight build would seem to make it
hard to withstand the punishment of rebounding. But a set of extremely quick and agile arms and hands enables Frank
to grab an average of eight rebounds a game.

Basketball in high school was particularly gratifying inasmuch as he won All-County honors two years and gained the MVP award
in the conference his senior year. Having to make the transition from center and forward to guard, Frank attributes his
success to his coaches. “My coaches were on my back at some time or another. I feel that this constructive
criticism made me a better ballplayer, in that I could more easily adjust to changing situations.” Clark's value to the
team was no more evident than in the only two losses sustained by the Wildkittens. In the second South Carolina
game, he was sick and the man he would have guarded scored 28 points. Frank, in the first meeting won
by Davidson, held him to 10 points. In the VPI game, which Frank also missed because of the flu, Tech
was able to double and triple team Adrian because the other wingman was a weak shooter. Frank, a good percentage
shooter, could have made the difference.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Records, against common opponents Davidson would appear to be in good shape. Besides Tech's split with Richmond, they have dropped
decisions to Duke 87-76; West Virginia, 81-70, and Wake Forest, 79-71. The Gobblers have also lost 6 of 7 on
enemy courts. The Gobblers want their revenge and the ‘Cats want their 22nd win. The team that wants it most
could be the winner.

The ‘Minor’ Sports

Scholarships, schedules, interest, the participation, finances, the “point system,” and ultimately success—these are just a few of the many problems
facing the intercollegiate “minor” sport at Davidson College. What happens to the high school stars that come to Davidson to
play in a minor sport? What needs to be done to alleviate the dismal seasons that several of the small
teams have recorded? Where does President Spencer's newly-appointed Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics come into the picture? These questions and others
that arise will be explained and answered starting next week when the DAVIDSONIAN sports staff begins a five-part series on
“The Minor Sport and Davidson College.” Combining talents for the articles will be sports editor Russ Merritt and sports writers
Bob Wallace, A. W. Turner, Don Parman, Charlie Terrill, and Steve Williams.

The Davidsonian
February 21, 1969
Page Five

FROM THE BENCH
By ROCKY CROSSWHITE

The Game To Watch

Watching people and their reactions to certain situations has always seemed very interesting to me. This is not to say
that the late TV program “Candid Camera” was one of my favorites, but try observing the spectators sitting around you
at our next game if you can pry your eyes from the court action for a few minutes. Sitting on
the bench, I have come to regard spectator-watching as a game just like the sport they come to see. Not
only do the bench boys have a good seat to watch the action on the court, we can also observe
what is happening in most areas of the coliseum. At times the action off the court tends to be more
interesting than what we sit there to watch.

The upper reaches of the domed building in Charlotte are usually occupied by either high school couples or last-minute ticket
buyers. The former group could care less about the action on the court while the latter group seems to search
the rest of the coliseum for better seats. This upper group disappears from sight in the second half of our
games when a thick cloud of smoke forms as it always does. I never thought about it before but I
guess likewise, we can’t be seen either.

Moving down the aisle, you find the balcony and mezzanine sections which are occupied by many season ticket holders and
their families. It is from this section that most of the young tykes who ask us for our autographs originate.
Many of these people are long-time Davidson fans for some reason or another and they can recall stories of past
teams which would take three days to tell. These people are the funniest to watch when Davidson is playing sloppy
as on occasion we do. They start shaking their heads and leaning down the row to tell someone else how
Fred Hetzel and his gang never looked this bad. These fans live and die with the outcome of our games
and I'm sure they set up some of our starting players as examples for their sons.

Immediately below are the box seats where the soft and comfortable spectator’s life can be purchased. The individual padded chairs
provide an ideal position to view a game. These fans even have better chairs than the skin team. Across from
us in the box seats sit different members of the administration and faculty. I am not sure whether all the
professors are given soft seats here but I know President Spencer, Dean Johnston, and others reside in these preferred thrones.
Maybe only the department heads get chairs in the box seats because of tenure or something else, but whatever it
is, these people sit throughout the game making sure they clap and stand up at the right times.

Across on the other side, the box seats hold the wealthier Davidson alumni who help support the basketball program. This
group of fans are quite vocal and are continually yelling down helpful hints to Lefty and the players. The girls
swoon over Wayne Huckel when the men marvel at Maloy’s latest move.

On the floor, in the end zones and the parquet are the students and their dates. These are mainly the
people we watch when sitting on the bench. There's always a good show going on on one side or the
other. The girls brought in as dates are the most humorous to watch. A certain percentage sit and yawn, all
the time watching the clock, while others are continually jumping up and down yelling at the refs and players. Every
once in a while a girl sitting on the front row who has been very vocal will catch you staring
at her. She will then sort of put on an embarrassed smile, subconsciously pull down her skirt, and whisper something
to her date. We all laugh, sink lower in our chairs, and watch the game.

Swimmers Face Difficult Task In Tourney After Wake Loss
By ALEX GORDON
Sports Writer

“We're going to have to do a lot better to get anybody to qualify,” declared Davidson swimming coach Tom Stevens.
This statement reflects Coach Stevens’ thoughts both on the upcoming Southern Conference Swimming Championships and the season as a whole.
All season the squad has been fighting lack of manpower and poor conditioning. However, after losing their first two meets
badly, they came up with five straight wins, all against schools with swimming programs comparable to Davidson's.

Tuesday Coach Stevens saw his squad's five-meet winning streak shattered by Wake Forest, 60-44. “They could have beaten us worse
than they did,” mourned Stevens. Only seven of the nine swimmers on the squad were able to make the trip
to Winston-Salem, and, as Coach Stevens noted, “seven is not enough.” In fact, the Wildcats started the meet by being
forced to forfeit the 400-yard medley relay. “It was the worst we have swum all year. Our times were terrible,”
revealed Coach Stevens. Coach Stevens actually felt that the only bright spot in the meet was John Cronin’s third place
finish in the 200-yard individual medley, an event which was new to him. The Wildcats managed to take only four
first places. Jim Newton, although hampered by a chest cold, took the 100-yard freestyle and swam a leg in the
400-yard freestyle relay. Bill Woodson was also a double winner as he captured the 500-yard freestyle and swam in the
400-yard freestyle relay. Jack Steele and Mac Davis rounded out the 400-yard freestyle relay team. Jim Winn took the butterfly.

“We swam really well until Tuesday. The whole squad did not swim as well as it could,” observed Coach Stevens.
The loss was especially disappointing since it came right on the heels of an exciting victory Friday over The Citadel.
After seven events in the meet, the Wildcats were down 24-37. Yet they came back to win 55-49 by virtue
of a victory in the 400-yard freestyle relay, the last event of the meet. Steele again captured three victories. He
won the 200 and 500-yard freestyles and swam on the 400-yard freestyle relay team with Newton, Woodson, and Davis.

As far as the Wildcat chances in the Southern Conference Swimming Championships on March 6-8 go, Coach Stevens is not
very optimistic. He points out that East Carolina will easily come out winner, with VMI and William and Mary following
way behind. Newton won the 100-yard freestyle, Woodson took the 1000-yard freestyle, and Davis captured the 50-yard freestyle. John Cronin
won the victory in his specialty, the 200-yard backstroke. The Wildcats have two meets remaining, against VMI and Duke, in
the regular season, and Coach Stevens is worried about both of them. VMI always has a strong, well-conditioned team, while
Duke bombed Wake Forest earlier in the season.

Coach Stevens sums up his feelings about the conference championships in the following way: “In order for us to do
anything, we've got to get on the ball and work like the devil.” The tankmen face an uphill battle in
an attempt to get back on the winning track this afternoon in the Davidson pool against VMI at 3 p.m.

IMAC Handball Tourney Begins

It's five down and six to go in the IMAC handball tournament. Already the ATOs, KAs, Pi Kapps, Machis, and
Betas have been eliminated due to two losses. And come next Wednesday, only one team, the champion, will be left.
At least four teams seem to have a chance for it. The Kappa Sigs, defending champions, appear to have the
best chance. Led by Scott Cutting and William Brown, the Sigs have swept past their first opponents into the semifinals
of the winners’ bracket. However, the Delts, Snus, and Pikas all appear to be in the running, too.

So far forfeits have dominated the tournament. Of the advancements thus far, only four have been by way of victories
on the court. Eight have come about when one of the teams failed to show up.
