THE WINNER’S WELCOME
Cheerleaders lead a surprising number of students who turned out Sunday afternoon to welcome the victorious football team back from San Antonio, Texas. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

October 10, 1969
Page Five

Spiders’ ‘Spoiler’ And Richards Pose Threat To Winning Streak
By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

Richmond invades Richardson Field tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. in a game that will go a long way in deciding the eventual winner of the Southern Conference championship. Richmond will bring the best passing attack the Wildcats have seen all season in the form of Charlie Richards and Walker Gillette. Richards, a 200-pound junior quarterback, has

Harriers Host Paladins In Initial League Meet
By RICK MICHAELS
Sports Writer

Davidson cross country team meets the Furman Paladin harriers this afternoon in what Wildcat head coach Heath Whittle predicts as being “a very interesting meet.” Both teams have a single win and loss, although Furman’s competition has been slightly stiffer. The Paladins have beaten Georgia State while losing to last year’s conference runners-up, East Carolina. Davidson lost to Western Carolina and beat UNC-C in a tri-meet Tuesday.

The Furman team is very similar to the Davidson squad. Both teams have two or three runners that finish each meet far ahead of the other members of their squads. Such inconsistencies make the outcome of a race interesting since the winning team is often not determined until the next-to-the-last runner crosses the line.

Last year the Paladins literally ran away from the Wildcats, crossing the finish line seven times before a Davidson runner reached the end of the course. Furman went on to finish third in the conference. Three of the Paladins’ outstanding harriers are back this season. Doug Nelson, Lee Fidler, and Mike Caldwell all have had good times in earlier meets this season.

Davidson hopes to counter Furman’s three speedsters with two real threats of its own in Stagg Newman and John Puckett. Newman, the captain and a four-year veteran, ran sixth in Tuesday's meet in 29:43, while Puckett, who spent last season in Europe, finished seventh in 30:11. 

Whittle was especially pleased with the performances of Newman, Puckett, Howard Boyd, and freshmen Joe Shipley and Ron Clark. “The team showing was good,” he commented, “considering the fact that they had a late season start while everyone else has already had a couple of meets.”

Other leading Wildcat harriers have been James Puckett, Ran Coble, Bill Naylor, Reaves Louthan, Rob Hoy, and freshman Richard Ford, all of whom have only to get into shape before they become real assets to the squad.

Tuesday's meet made Davidson's opening meet last year look like an exact replica. The Catamounts took the first five places, just as they did in the previous years while scoring just 15 points. Davidson, behind Newman and Puckett, scored 49 points while UNC-C had 76.

The experienced Western Carolina squad outdistanced Davidson from the first. Terry Helms led the Catamounts over the five miles in a new Davidson track record of 27:02, breaking the old record of 27:17 set by John Hodson of Wake Forest by 15 seconds.

Davidson will entertain the Deacons of Wake Forest next Tuesday in hopes of getting even for a narrow loss at Wake last year. Both meets will begin at 4 p.m.

By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

The IMAC flickerball season is yet in the infant stage, but it is far enough along to tell that the KA’s are probably the most improved team in the league. Wednesday afternoon they defeated the Kappa Sigs, 20-14, for their second straight victory, as both their offensive and defensive units shined. On offense, the KA’s used a basically drop-back pass attack, which worked particularly well early in the game.

IMAC Standings
1. Pikas
2. Gamms
3. Kappa Sigs
4. Phi Delts
5. Sigma Chis
6. SAE's
7. ATO's
8. SPE's
9. KA’s
10. Sigma Nus
11. Indies
12. Pi Kapps
13. Betas
*Score undecided pending IMAC ruling.

ANYONE FOR LEAPFROG? (Staff photo by Lyle)
MAYBE IT WAS A LEFT TURN. John Puckett ponders cross-country course.

KA’s Topple Sigs, SAE’s Sweep To Flickerball Lead

Tailback Romey Fisher, exhibiting a strong and accurate arm, led the KA’s to a touchdown on their first possession in only five plays. Along the way, he made use of several receivers on short and long patterns. On the touchdown play, the Sigs rushed two men, but Fisher found the open man, Lou Williams, who passed to Charlie Terrell for the score. Fisher hit Theo Powell, who caught everything thrown his way all day, for the extra point.

Not to be outdone by the offense, the KA defenders intercepted three passes in the first half. Nelson Abell, Tom Jeter, and Powell all intercepted enemy aerials. Powell's grab gave the KA’s their second score, as he lobbed the ball to Jack Trotter for six points. The KA’s scored again shortly after the half on a pass from Fisher to Steve Williams to Lou Williams. Fisher hit Powell again for the extra point to make the score 20-0.

The Sigs failed to move the ball until tailback Terry Millar arrived midway through the second half. He guided the Sigs to two quick touchdowns set up by interceptions by sophomore Charles Hinnant. The first score was a flick play from Millar to David Russell to Tate Holbrook, and the second was a Millar pass to Frank Clark. The Sigs threatened again as the game ended, but Jeter intercepted his second pass of the day with 30 seconds left to save the game for the KA’s.

In the other game this week, the KA’s defeated the SAE’s, 20-13. Fisher threw three touchdown passes in that game, long bombs to Jim Crouse and Steve Williams, and a short pass to Lou Williams.

In other games, the Betas defeated the Sigs, 13-12, the Pikas edged the Sigma Chis, 7-6, and the Phi Gamms thrashed the Independents, 37-7. In the Beta victory, Ken Crews was the key man, as he led an adequate if unexciting attack. Hunter Rice scored the winning extra point.

The Pikas beat the Machis in a battle of defenses, as neither team was able to muster an offensive attack. The Pikas scored first as Steve Roady grabbed a Tom Hendren pass. Mark Affeldt scored the all-important extra point. The Machis scored on a pass to Mike O'Malley, but Joe Lansinger knocked down the extra point to save the Pikas.

Tailback Roy Lane led the Gamm attack over the impotent Independents. Scott Nicholson intercepted several passes and led the defense, which held the Indies scoreless until the last play of the game.

Brien, last season's Southern Conference football player of the year, left off. In three games, Richmond has shot up to fifth in the national rankings in total offense with 868 yards in 164 offensive plays. In passing, Richards ranks fifth with 57 completions in 118 attempts for 821 yards.He has thrown touchdowns only three while seeing six of his tosses intercepted. With three games, Lone Richards is regarded as near certain to break Richmond's record for attempts. Livesay is a surprise for Richmond coach Frank Jones, ranking sixteenth nationally with catches for 221 yards. Gillette is the big man in Richmond football this year. Preseason publicity pointed to him as an All-American, and his performance has borne out these predictions. He already holds two Richmond career records for catches and yards gained and is tied with John Hilton, now of the St. Louis Cardinals of the NFL, for the career mark for touchdown passes. He holds two season records and four single-game marks. This season he has specialized in the bomb, with 346 yards or an average of nearly 20 yards a catch. He ranks fifteenth in the nation despite only catching passes in the last two games. 

"If he doesn't make All-American," said Jones, "there's no justice. There's no other end in the country in his class. He's super." After being toppled by Mississippi State 17-14 in their opener, Richmond has come back to win two in a row. Gillette broke open a defensive battle with VMI with a third-quarter touchdown, his only catch of the game. The Spiders rolled on in the fourth quarter for a 20-0 conference win. Last week, Richmond confounded the preseason forecasts with a stunning upset of the Hokies from Virginia Tech. Richards passed for 258 yards while a tremendous Spider defense throttled the Gobblers. Leading the Richmond defense is middle guard Dick Irvin, named last week's outstanding lineman in both the Southern Conference and the nation for 16 tackles and three assists. On six other occasions, he hit the quarterback.

Freshmen Begin Basketball Drills

Davidson head basketball coach Terry Holland has announced that a meeting of all freshmen interested in playing for the freshman basketball team will be held at 7 p.m., Tuesday night, October 14, on the basketball court of Johnston Gym. Everyone interested in either playing or managing is asked to attend.

While Homer Smith has the highest regard for the offensive threat posed by the Richards-Gillette combination, Davidson's own passing game has Jones worried. "They're unbeaten. They beat Furman, 77-14, and it is hard to score that many points on any team. Slade is a fine passer and Kelly is an outstanding end." The NCAA offense statistics bear Jones out. Gordon Slade ranks tenth in total offense with 742 yards, tenth in passing with 52 of 81 for 725 yards. He has connected for seven touchdowns while seeing three interceptions. Mike Kelley maintained his position as fifth among the nation's pass receivers with 25 catches for 372 yards and three scores. George Hannen, ranked nationally, has contributed 13 receptions for 193 yards and two touchdowns.

The steady rain had already washed out the pageantry before Davidson wiped out the chances of the Tigers retaining the trophy given to the winner of the game. Behind the passing of Scotty Shipp, the Davidson freshmen defeated a highly touted Richmond freshman squad, 7-6, last Friday. Shipp threw for over 200 yards to lead the Wildkittens. Davidson remained unbeaten with a thrilling 17-16 win over Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas. The 'Cats' Ed Terry was the hero with a 22-yard field goal with only 35 seconds left in the game. Davidson scored ten points in the fourth quarter to defeat the determined Texans.

Patterson-Led Booters Seeking Initial Victory

By BILLY COBB, Sports Writer

The Davidson soccer team entertains the Furman Paladins today and will see several new faces in the Wildcat starting lineup. Of course, missing from the lineup will be the face of senior Cliff Patterson. It's very rare for Davidson to produce a highly touted athlete in anything but basketball, but coach Harry Fogleman feels that in Patterson, he has had one for several years now. Patterson's story is the same as many other athletes at Davidson who compete on the non-subsidized teams like the soccer squad. He came to Davidson for academic purposes and was discovered on the soccer field by Fogleman. "He is the first athlete in my 25 years of coaching experience to be chosen captain for two straight years, and that should speak for itself," said Fogleman. "He has the best foot on the team and can control the ball better than anyone I have seen here in four years."

Patterson was a leading contender for All-South honors last fall until he was injured and had to sit out the final three games of the season. Fogleman regards him as a definite contender for that honor again this year. The clash with Furman is a crucial one for the 'Cats as it marks their Southern Conference debut for the season. Last season, Fogleman's team just missed the divisional championship and the conference championship playoff. Despite heart-breaking losses to a strong Duke team and a weaker North Carolina Methodist squad by identical 3-2 margins, Fogleman looks for his team to bounce back today. The Davidson team played a very aggressive game against the powerful Blue Devils last week at Durham. Duke pulled the game out in the second overtime on an angle shot. Fogleman cited Patterson for his usual good performance along with other outstanding performers Dick Robertson, Steve Allison, Mike Taylor, Charlie Culbertson, Skip Holcomb, and John Robinson. Cam McNair scored one for Davidson while Culbertson, a converted goalie, added one more to his two scores in the Duke game.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital - Mooresville, N.C.

A ONE-DAY EXHIBITION & SALE
Graphics presented by LONDON GRAFICA ARTS
Publishers of contemporary printmakers
More than 400 lithographs, etchings, woodcuts, and screenprints on show, including works by:
PICASSO, DURER, GOYA, CHAGALL, DAUMIER, CASSATT, GAUGUIN, TOULOUSE-LAUTREC
Also MANUSCRIPTS AND MAPS
ITEMS FROM $8 to $3000
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Cunningham Fine Arts Center
Friday — October 10
10 a.m. - 5 p.m.

PHONE 892-9308
Cashion Gulf Service
ALL BRANDS OF OIL
PICK-UP & DELIVERY SERVICE
P.O. Box 422 - Main St.
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

NEW AND USED FURNITURE
TO MAKE YOUR ROOM MORE COMFORTABLE
SEE HOWARD & BRAWLEY FURNITURE COMPANY
PHONE 662-1881
162 N. MAIN STREET, MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Let's Get Acquainted
THE WILDCAT DEN
Present This Ad — Good For 10% Off Your Favorite PIZZA.
Good any day except Saturdays
Void After Oct. 17th