-™ BLACK IS BEAUTIFUL (Staff Photos by Weems) But black students are often lonely because so few are at Davidson.
Faculty Mixing Is Stalled By ROBERT PYEATT Associate Editor The prospects for getting any black faculty members at Davidson in
the near future are dim. This was the net result of comments by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. outlining the
difficulties in hiring Negro professors at a press conference Tuesday. Although Spencer said that he personally is desirous of having
Negro faculty members here, he listed three major difficulties: The pool of qualified black candidates for faculty positions is extremely
small. —Some black candidates want to go to black institutions; they feel a responsibility to return to these colleges. —The
difficulties black institutions have in keeping faculty because they are much in demand by white institutions trying to integrate their
faculties and set up black studies programs. Many southern Negro colleges have lost their best professors recently. Spencer said that
only one or two faculty positions are currently open for next year and he thought it would be very difficult
to get Negroes to fill them. However, he said that a black Army officer has been appointed to the ROTC
Department for next year. In response to a question about whether he had directed any department chairmen to seek actively
Negro faculty, Spencer said that faculty selection is basically done by a three-man committee including the department chairman, Dean of
Faculty Frontis Johnston and himself. He said they are interested in getting black faculty. Although Spencer has announced a policy
of integrating the clerical staff, no Negroes have been hired. Two clerical positions have been filled by white people since
last fall. Spencer said that the college had been unable to find any Negro applicants for the jobs. One difficulty
in bringing Negro faculty members to Davidson is the problem of community acceptance. One Davidson resident who owns real estate
in the town and occasionally sells lots to faculty members for home building, does so on the condition that they
will not sell the land to a Negro. Conditions like this would, obviously, make it difficult for a Negro professor
in Davidson. "The college would have responsibility for providing good housing and making the person feel welcome," Spencer commented on
the problem. Dr. E. F. Patterson, member of the Extra Campus Responsibilities Commission, said that there would be an initial
period of shock and adjustment in the Davidson community and that a black faculty member "probably wouldn't be very happy
here." He urged integrating the faculty with two or three black professors at once and integration of the clerical staff
at the same time. Spencer said that while it would probably be desirable to integrate the faculty initially with more
than one black professor, the small number of openings for professors of any given year and the small number of
Negro candidates for faculty positions would probably prevent this. Patterson has served on a committee of the local chapter of
the American Association of University Professors to set up a faculty exchange with black colleges in this area. Under the
plan the AAUP has formulated, Davidson professors would teach courses at nearby Negro colleges like Johnson C. Smith and Barber-Scotia
while being paid by Davidson. By JOHN McLEAN Managing Editor Davidson's dabbling affair with black education has a short and
frustrating history. It all began with a directive from the Presbyterian Board of World Missions back in 1961 which asked
the college’s help in the Board’s African Education program. Before that time, in practice if not in theory, Davidson admissions
was, like the rest of the South, "for whites only." Dr. Grier Martin, then president of the college, and This
would allow faculty at those institutions to take leaves of absence to work on advanced degrees and thus upgrade the
quality of education at these colleges. The Extra Campus Responsibilities Commission has presented this plan to the Johnson C. Smith
administration, and they responded favorably to it, Patterson said. This plan, or a similar one, will probably be one of
the recommendations of the commission. One method of integrating the faculty would be to hire black graduate students for one
or two-year appointments, the way the college currently makes short-term appointments. This might be easier than attempting to get a
Negro Ph.D. The Davidsonian Black Students-Part One FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1969 - PAGE THREE Commission To Answer: Which Blacks To
Bring? With both college and students at least nominally committed to the goal of integrating Davidson from top to bottom,
and the student body informed of the need and desirability of such a move, it remains to those charged with
doing something about it to untangle the complexities involved. Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., in his inaugural speech as president
of the college, set up a Commission on Extra- The Official Line From the text of President Spencer’s inauguration address:
“But an educational institution today cannot afford the luxuries of sentimentality and chauvinism. It cannot wistfully choose preoccupation with a
known and somewhat idealized past over the hard realities of an unknown future. “Its posture must be aggressive rather than
defensive. Though it must be versatile enough to provide the setting for serious and undisturbed study, it cannot use its
hallowed walls to isolate itself in sterile immunity from the society of which it is a part.” “Colleges like Davidson
are realizing, belatedly, that they have responsibilities which extend into the concentric communities of which they are a part.” “But
hindsight makes clear that Southern colleges and universities have been incredibly myopic in viewing the specific needs of a region
plagued for a century by problems of racial discrimination, economic deprivation, and cultural malnutrition. “Suddenly, prodded awake by the goading
insistence of a people who will wait no longer, we see that our own spiritual and material health is inevitably
bound up with theirs.” “What the Commission on Extra-campus Responsibilities can help us do, I believe, is to define our
responsibilities and suggest how we, as one small college, can best contribute to our regional boot-strap operation without losing effectiveness
in a dissipation or diffusion of our energies.” “I might add parenthetically that one of the ways in which we
can demonstrate that we mean what we say about non-discrimination is to open the doors of opportunity to persons of
other races at the faculty, staff, and office-clerical levels. This I intend to do as soon as we can find
qualified candidates who are interested.” Campus Responsibilities (ECR) to define Davidson's responsibilities, and suggest ways to begin the “boot-strap operation”
of harmonizing its concerns to those of blacks in this area. One of the commission's concerns is finding on-campus methods
of making the college more attractive to minority students. This is only part of that commission’s work, and to some
it may seem easy enough to study, but the questions are actually very complex in nature. One of the most
sensitive issues is what type of black students should Davidson try to attract. Some feel that Davidson should seek to
assimilate the middle class Negro. Others feel that Negroes from a disadvantaged background have more to add—and more to gain—from
Davidson. The arguments in favor of admitting middle class blacks parallel those for admitting middle class whites. And, if competitive
admissions standards remain, these are about the only students who have a chance of getting into Davidson. As H. Edmund
White, admissions director, pointed out in a DAVIDSONIAN interview, the mere fact that an institution like Davidson takes students from
the top 10 percent of their high school classes confers some automatic similarities in the resulting student body. But the
issue, as it must be faced by members of the ECR, is more complicated. James Parks, a student member of
the ECR, outlined some of the consequences that having middle class blacks would bring. Middle class blacks are, Parks said,
more emotionally secure, and they know what the good things in life are. These factors help them to make a
speedier adaptation to the Davidson environment. But, Parks continued, they are more “bitter at social inequities” and are “more likely
to be more rambunctious in the end.” This is because they are less easily intimidated, and can see through the
arguments which support “the system.” They are more experienced in the types of activities on which the social and economic
society depends (finances, organizations, etc.). “And,” said Parks, “each one has his own personal hang-up like every other middle class
kid.” Speaking as a black student at Davidson, Parks said he felt that large institutional changes would have to be
made in order to make Davidson more attractive to minority students. Money spent on beefed up recruiting efforts may not
bring the desired results, he said, unless black high school students can look to a Davidson with black faculty members,
better relations with black colleges in the area, and no prohibition against scholarship students owning cars. the Board of Trustees
accepted the Board of World Missions’ challenge, and two African students were admitted in 1962 and 1963. In 1964 the
first American Negro students were admitted to Davidson. Since that time, 10 Negroes have been admitted and enrolled, and three
have dropped out before graduation. H. Edmunds White, current director of admissions, has worked in the admissions office for 14
years. White says there have never been more than eight applications from Negroes until this year. So,” he says, “it
has worked out—not that there was a quota or anything—that we have accepted two or three blacks every year.” As
director of admissions, White hasbeen responsible for recruiting black students. But his efforts have met with continual frustration. Six years
ago White began contacting students through the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students (NSSFNS). Half of the black
students presently enrolled were originally contacted through this association. “We take the initiative once we find out” about Negro students
who might come to Davidson," White reported. Another national scholarship provides a source of Negro applicants. The National Achievement Scholars
program of the National Merit Scholastic Corporation provides for competition among black students in a program of testing similar to
the familiar NMSQT program. Last year Davidson contacted the 80 finalists of NAS awards, but this year it wrote to
all 250 semi-finalists. Students Joe Murphy and Larry Slade followed up on official contacts with this group of blacks, but
their efforts have met with little initial success. Although White acceded that every application from a black student “gets an
especially careful look,” he made it clear that no black student gets preferential treatment from the admissions committee because he
is black. However, White added that for all students “we consider any student’s application in light of all that we
can find out about him,” his family, social and educational backgrounds. “We are interested in having additional black students on
this campus, well, one reason being for the benefit of the black students already on campus.” White said he realized
that it was “hard to change patterns of any kind: where students apply, whether they take achievement tests, where they
decide to go. But we simply have to continue efforts and hope to get a representative number (of blacks) in
the future.” Said White: “We had some increase (in applications) this year because of major efforts of a few students
and some effort by many other students. We were disappointed that their efforts haven't resulted in a larger number this
year.” The figures for this year's incoming freshman class do not reflect any special consideration of black applicants. A total
of 33 applications were received from blacks, but out of these only 16 or 17 were “complete,” that is, with
all test scores and recommendations included. Out of these applications, six blacks were accepted in the first round of acceptances,
and two have already been earmarked for acceptance in the second round, which will be announced April 15. The Presidential
Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities is currently investigating admissions policies and procedures. There is among members of that group and in
the student body much criticism of the admissions committee’s lack of organized recruiting of black students. James Parks, a student
member of the commission, said he feels that Davidson's failure to attract black students is due to the “outdated idea”
that Davidson can draw students without actively seeking them. At present, Davidson has no program for recruiting individual students —
white or black — apart from athletic recruiting. Present efforts are exhausted by contact with national scholarship organizations and participation
in high school “College Days.” “They aren’t actively recruiting now,” Parks said, “but they should be. I don’t question their
motive, but I just say that they are not doing enough.” “I don’t question their motive, but I just say
that (the admissions committee) is not doing enough.” The unfortunate, and apparently unintentional, result of Davidson's “non-recruiting” is that it
leads black high school counselors to distrust Davidson. Joe Champion, the guidance counselor at predominantly black West Charlotte High, has
been disturbed by the treatment of some of his Davidson applicants. Davidson Negroes Have Endured Frustrating Fight For Admission Parks
said that Champion has had applicants accepted at Ivy League schools, but some of those he felt were qualified to
be accepted by Davidson were not accepted. Champion also complained about lack of personal recruiting, especially since capable black students
are sought after by many Northern schools. Both White and Parks concurred that the job of actively recruiting black students
is left almost entirely to individual students. But Parks said they work as freelancers, without official recognition or much practical
assistance from the admissions office. The problems of admitting black students are complex and dependent upon factors beyond the power
of either the college or individuals of control. An examination of the history of black recruiting shows that this art
is still in its infancy, at least, at Davidson. Of course, no one denies that Davidson is sincere in its
commitment to fulfill its duty to black students and white. It's just that progress is slow — and frustrating. NOT
‘FOR WHITES ONLY’ But Spencer's Black History course is nevertheless “lily white.” Spencer’s Class Stresses Negro History’s Relevance By CHUCK
GREEN and PAUL SCHNEIDER Staff Writers A “good beginning” best characterizes President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.'s Free University course, “The
Negro and American Society, 1865-1940," said junior Harrell Rentz. A non-history major, Rentz said he did not know much about
American history, especially of the post-Civil War period. In praising the course, Rentz said, “It is beneficial to me and
it is a good way to get a background of the Negro situation which is one of the most explosive
issues of the time.” Black Studies Get Boost By NORWOOD POLAND Staff Writer Interest in black culture at Davidson has
received new impetus from an unexpected quarter with the organization of a seminar on 20th Century Africa by the pledge
class of Kappa Alpha fraternity. Wanting to contribute “something of benefit to more people than just the fraternity membership,” the
KA pledges have initiated a seven-week course on modern Africa in the spirit of the Free University, KA pledge Bobby
Allen said. Mr. Noyce Dube, a native of Africa and a professor at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, will
lecture and lead a discussion each Thursday evening beginning April 3. Dube has studied in Rhodesia, England and the United
States. KA pledges Tom Robertson and Lawrence Wilkinson first suggested the idea of a black culture course as a pledge
project, and the proposal has met with enthusiastic approval by the rest of the class, according to pledge Frank Dana.
The KA brothers have also reacted favorably to the project, Dana said. The active members of the fraternity have, in
fact, offered to contribute matching funds raised by the pledges for the course. Between $250 and $300 will be needed,
Allen said, and most of this has already been raised. While the primary motivation for organizing the 20th Century Africa
course was service-oriented, Allen admitted that there would be secondary benefit to the fraternity by correcting the image KAs have
in the South. Dana agreed, saying, “We want to show that KA’s are not ‘southern fried,’ and that we can
contribute to the community in an open and constructive way.” No moves have yet been made to include local blacks
in the course, or to involve black students from Davidson and Johnson C. Smith in the discussions, however. Allen said
that these people are welcome to attend the sessions, but that time had not permitted active solicitation of these people
as participants. Some 40 people have signed up for the seminar so far, and there is still room for more
interested participants. The 17 KA pledges and a number of brothers are planning to attend as well, Allen said. Rentz
is one of several students, faculty and wives, and Queens girls taking the course which was begun in the second
session of the Free University. (There are no black students in the course). According to Spencer, the course offers an
interpretation of post-Civil War race relations in the United States, “an interpretation of why we failed.” He feels that in
order to understand what is now happening the past must be analyzed, and that is his task. Spencer began the
course by citing the parallel between the Civil Rights Acts of 1865 and 1964. Many of the passages are quite
similar, he said, and the basic question is why after 90 years of the first act, a second one was
needed. Spencer has covered several topics up to this week. He has spoken of the Civil War as a watershed
in American history, politically, socially and constitutionally. He has talked of the response of the white North, “a great withdrawal”
in which the North wanted to forget the Negro, and the response of the white South, “the triumph of Jim
Crow, the cementing of segregation.” He has recently taken up the response of the Negro: the accommodation of B. T.
Washington and the efforts of W.E.B. DuBois to reform the system. In subsequent lectures Spencer will speak of Marcus Garvey’s
wish to withdraw from the system and the efforts of the Communist Party to overthrow it. His concluding lecture will
tie up all of his previous points and present his views on the trend of the present. Rentz stated that
Spencer “usually bursts a few bubbles; he knocks the wind out of standard southern defenses for the Negro situation as
it exists.” Mrs. Richard Cole, wife of a Davidson English professor, is taking the course because she feels it is
a lively subject and felt Spencer was an authority on the subject. Dr. Francis Ghigo, a Davidson French Professor, said
he was “ignorant” about Negro history, and he wanted to hear a historian's perspective. He, too, felt that he had
been “enlightened.”
