Page Six November 14, 1989 (Staff photos by A. Davidson)

A MEETING OF MINDS? Parents meet professors on Parent's Day.

Town Of Davidson Surveys Houses On Safety Standards
By BILL MAYFIELD
Staff Writer

The Davidson Town Board approved a new ordinance for the inspection and repair of unsafe buildings. The building code designates
a five-step procedure for inspection and improvement. Paul D. Green, the building inspector, is empowered to conduct an orderly inspection
of buildings in the town. If a building is found to be dangerous to life or a public nuisance, it
shall be declared unsafe and warrant action to have such conditions either corrected or removed.

The inspector will issue, in writing, an order of condemnation to the owner. The owner can appeal the order within
ten days, and a hearing will be conducted. If, at the hearing, the building inspector finds the building in question
to be in the prescribed condition, he will then issue a direct order to the owner, which shall require either
the remedy for the condition or the demolition of the building. As a second recourse, the owner has the right
to appeal the decision before the Board of Commissioners. If he does not appeal the decision, the order stands and
action will ensue.

OPEN HOUSE
These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
Dr. Davis, Lynbrook Drive
Lennox, Lake Norman
McGeachy, 309 Pinecrest
Brown Patterson, 112 Concord Road
Pinkerton, Grey Road
Polley, Ney Circle
Purcell, 101 Hillside Drive
Locke, White, 203 Lorimer Road
Woodmansee, Pine & Lorimer Dr.
Woods, 552 Lorimer

‘Guess Who’ Football Head Weekend’s Activity
A concert featuring The Guess Who leads the list of weekend activities, which include the Tenth Annual Convocation, a social
with Wofford, and a Sidney Poitier movie. The concert will be held tomorrow night at 8:15 in Love Auditorium. The
Guess Who is a Canadian group that has put out a Gold record, “These Eyes,” and the Silver Record “Shakin’
All Over,” plus several singles. Randy Bachman is the member of the group who does most of the songwriting. Bert
Cumming is one of the Guess Who’s budding geniuses. He is an intimate vocalist and also plays the piano, organ,
and harmonica. Some of his performances have been compared to the Doors. Gary Peterson, the newest member of the group,
is the drummer. He first performed for small local bands in Winnipeg, Alberta. Jim Kale plays the bass fiddle.

The Davidson College football team plays Wofford at Richardson Field tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m., with a postgame reception at
4 in the Morrison Room. The Sacred Music Convocation will hold two performances in Love Auditorium, one tonight at 8:15
and the other tomorrow at 1:30. Both are free and open to the public. Guest Conductor Searle Wright is a
professor of Organ at Columbia University. Robert Jackson and Wilmer Welsh of the Music Department will be performing at the
festival, Jackson on the trumpet and Welsh on the organ. They will play a Welsh composition, a sonatina.

(Continued From Page 1)
The unrest climaxed at an open session of the EPC on Oct. 34, where students advocated discontinuing the examinations. Earlier
this fall, the sophomores met to protest the exams and to discuss the possibility of transferring.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors: ROBERT PYEATT, PAUL ROWLAND, DAVID SWEATT, TOM WHEATLEY
Managing Editors: JOHN McLEAN, ED SHOAF
Sports Editor: RUSS MERRITT
Copy Editor: DON HOYT
Assistant Copy Editor: STEVE CROSS
News Editor: JOHN FINE
Assistant Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT
Assistant Sports Editors: BILL BERRY, DON PARMAN, A. W. TURNER
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Photographers: SAM RAMACHANDRAN, GEORGE THOMAS
Asst. Business Manager: TED HEEFNER
Circulation Managers: HOWARD RAMAGLI, GREG SCOTT
Cartoonists: TERRY HIRST, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS
Contributors this week: Bill Mayhew, Bill Eskridge, Jeff Allender, Rich Wilson, Scott Davidson, Neil Coghill, Bill Davenport, and Abe Wilson.

The Music Convocation will feature choruses from Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte and Salem College, but our own Male
Chorus and Wind Ensemble will be well represented.

A REVIEW
PURPOSE
To those who have had neither the time nor the inclination to read all five commission reports in their entirety,
I offer this review.

PROCEDURE
Prior to writing this report, I carefully read the commission reports, soliciting help from my friends whenever I encountered a
particularly difficult passage. I noted items of interest and condensed these notes into section three, findings.

FINDINGS
The playing fields of Eton. The most outstanding aspect of the report on athletics is its admirable brevity. This is
probably as it should be, since the question of subsidized athletics is largely one of finance and as such can
be presented more effectively in figures than in words. The commission should have better explained its figures, however. The report
does not indicate exactly what is meant by total net savings: “the total net savings if all subsidization were eliminated
would be approximately $54,000.” Further on, however, the commission states: “Assuming that subsidized football was eliminated but that our present
basketball policy was continued, the savings would be somewhat between $75,000 and $80,000 for this academic year.”

Sound and fury: signifying nothing. The report on church relations, appropriately enough, is written in the style of a sermon
and abounds in rhetorical passages: “For the ambiguities and recognize the leadership that the church has offered to those who
have had the courage to follow. Illness and ignorance are to be fought for Christ’s sake... we who make up
the college community should daily give thanks for the vision, leadership, and finances which the church has provided.” The commission
did little orNothing to make the report continuously develop an idea. For example, the table of contents was placed on
the ninth page of the report, and consecutive pagination was not used. Also, there is very little internal consistency. The
reader must wonder how, on the third page of the fourth sub-committee’s report, they could describe Occidental College as “Independent
but Presbyterian by tradition” when, eight pages earlier, on the second commission report, it was described differently.

I should title it ‘The Hapless Teacher and the Omniscient Student.’ “Students today are extremely well-versed in ways of reaching
knowledge. Most college students habitually read “Newsweek” or "Time" while others read “Playboy” or “Evergreen Review” so that they can
keep abreast of current happenings.” Teachers should try to teach something that they do not know well. “This way the
teacher learns with the student,” Fowlie emphasized.

Clodfelter said, “Now that the immediate pressure has been lifted, a more rational examination can take place. The case is
by no means closed, and I hope that the committee appointed by Dr. Spencer can come up with some recommendations
more in keeping with the creativity and originality which Blue Sky sought to encourage.” He added, “We cannot allow the
temporary measure of the third course for freshmen and sophomores to become permanent.”

Dunham said, “We felt that the alumni would benefit from receiving the reports, and the added circulation would help the
paper through a number of additional subscriptions.”

On the second sub-committee report, the commission wrote, “We are under no illusion that mere unwritten tradition and the momentum
of history will alone suffice to ensure that continued enshrinement. They have not elsewhere.” Readers will have even more difficulty
fathoming statements like “An Encounter Group is the opportunity to share in a trust relationship with a group about their
deeper concerns, and to develop greater empathy for others.”

How ironic that a report written to recommend that Davidson remain a church-affiliated college should damn that affiliation by manifesting
the poor scholarship and imprecise, ambiguous expression of thought which critics have always suspected to be a concomitant to religious
commitment in education!

The report on coeducation is so well written that one can easily understand the bases for its recommendations; it also
avoids unpalatable harangue. The report’s major fault is that it includes a great deal of irrelevant data. When reading its
appendix on the college union, one cannot help but feel that it was surreptitiously inserted by some high union official,
for the addition of five hundred students to the campus would hardly require this staggering list of improvements: “big gracious
permanent auditorium 2,500 seats... one room for short wave radio and ham operation worldwide... one wing (away from frantic activities
area) for at least twelve ‘hotel rooms,’ including two ‘house suites’ for special college visitors.” The reader must consider this
program, in the words of J. G. Martin, “more a day-dream than a vision.”

The major contribution of the coeducation report to the field of literature is the report of its subcommittee on bibliography.
In these days, it is marvelous to read that there is no worthwhile reading in a given area. One must
regret that the report was not more thoroughly published and established its field.

The report on extra-campus responsibility is a model of clear, brief, effective writing. Except for a few instances of incorrect,
questionable, or unfortunate word usage (the appointment of an administrator “to provide careful oversight”), the report is perfect.

In Davidson did C. Shaw Smith a stately pleasure dome decree, but J. G. Martin firmly stood for all that’s
right with brotherhood and chose to disagree. The outstanding feature of the report on social patterns is the minority report
submitted by Dr. J. G. Martin. It is well-written, clever, to the point, and has, in T.S. Eliot's words, “the
cardinal virtue of never being dull.”

CONCLUSION
Unfortunately, the writing in the commission reports is the typical mediocre product of committee mentality. With few exceptions, the reports
are not worth the time it takes to read them.

RECOMMENDATION
When, as the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibility recommends, the college institutes continuing education, one of the first courses to be
offered should be basic English composition, with emphasis on writing the research paper; this course should be a prerequisite for
all commission work.

Don Hoyt

FOWLIE DESCRIBES TEACHING PROBLEMS
Tells students of “spiritual striptease.”

When the students came in the next day, he asked them what the Book of Job was about. There was
a pause and then one girl raised her hand and told him exactly what the Book of Job was about.
There was an even longer pause after that. I think the teacher went into banking.”

According to Fowlie, teaching is a learning experience, and ideally should be a debate between an older man and a
younger one. At the end of a lesson, a good teacher should say, “Close your notebook and open your minds,”
so that the students can give their own opinion. Fowlie concluded, “It is foolhardy to hope to be impersonal and
objective in the classroom. Both the teacher and the student should bear testimony while relating to each other and the
world around them.”
