Page Four April 4, 1969

SENSITIVE, POLISHED
Leatherwood & Lisa Give Hungry d Folk-Rock Blend

A REVIEW By BOB DUNHAM Editor-in-Chief

Alan Leatherwood is sensitive to the audience's attentions, articulate with a guitar and fresh on the heels of the Tim Hardin he resembles. Lisa is a big-eyed, long-haired beauty with a haunting smile-and-a-half and a voice which sounds somewhat like Merrilee Rush. Together Leatherwood and Lisa form a powerful group which makes its final appearances this evening and tomorrow night at the Union’s Hungry d coffeehouse.

Singing everything from Hardin to McCartney, following the traditions of everyone from Buddy Holly to John Sebastian and throwing a good bit of their own talents into the show, the young couple from Ohio has packed the Hungry d each night this week. They have shown no exhaustion from their 10-week tour on the North Carolina coffeehouse circuit and move well as they perform. The only slow portions of the act come with Alan's sensitive tuning of his 12-string guitar between songs, but once the action begins it seems to keep beginning. He moves from song to song with unpredictable tempo changes which keep the audience moving with him.

Dull SGA Stories Give Hi-Po Win

THE DAVIDSONIAN has won one first place and three second place awards in the 1968-69 College Press Awards competition sponsored by the Charlotte Observer and Charlotte News. The paper was named the first runner-up to the Hi-Po of High Point College in the best small college (less than 3,000 enrollment) newspaper competition, and three staffers won individual awards as well. A staff writer for the Charlotte News said this week that the main reason THE DAVIDSONIAN lost a number of points was its too-extensive coverage of student government, which he termed “dull.”

Former Associate Editor Bob Reid won $30 and first place in the editorials competition, and former Editor-in-Chief Robbie Hooker and Assistant Sports Editor Rocky Crosswhite won $25 second prizes in the news and sports competition. Only one other newspaper, the Daily Tar Heel of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, won more awards. Judges considered 325 different entries submitted in six categories from 19 college newspaper staffs in North and South Carolina. The awards were presented at a luncheon last Saturday in Charlotte.

Posts Lack Candidates

By NORWOOD POLAND Staff Writer

With the deadline for filing only two weeks away, no one has yet officially announced his candidacy for the Davidson Town Council or for Mayor. The deadline for filing for town office is April 19 for the election to be held May 6. In addition to the mayor, five town councilmen will be elected. New voters may register from April 18 through April 25 at the home of town registrar Mrs. Mildred Alexander. On Saturday, April 19, registration will take place at the town hall from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

The act was billed as ‘folk rock with a lot of country,” but the country in the act was more of the Kentucky country than the Nashville variety. Songs such as Lightfoot's “Steel Rail Blues” and the quick-moving “Blue Moon” are the closest that Leatherwood and Lisa come to country. At the opening night performance Alan demonstrated his sensitivity to the attention of the audience. Although he commented later that the reception was good, he occasionally reprimanded the whisperers in the audience. Lisa appeared at times as the polished performer, but off-stage she occasionally lapsed into a teeny-bopperish outburst of “groovy.” The young performer (she is 20, Alan 24) has a moving alto voice which turns sensuous when deep and alive and moving when high. Both Leatherwood and Lisa visibly express attachment to their lyrics, often closing their eyes and reaching for a mood. Their act includes a large number of songs which can be changed around with frequency so that no two shows are identical. And they vary music types from song to song to provide something for everyone.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, April 4
5 p.m. Golf: Davidson vs. Duke
7 p.m. Hungry d: Leatherwood & Lisa

Saturday, April 5
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. Colgate
2 p.m. Baseball: Davidson vs. Duke
7:30 p.m. Hungry d: Leatherwood & Lisa

Sunday, April 6
6:45 a.m. Student-sponsored Easter Services North-end of the College Union
2 p.m. Rugby: Davidson vs. Duke

Monday, April 7
10 a.m. Assembly: Sen. Sam Ervin (D-N.C.)
2 p.m. Tennis: Davidson vs. East Carolina
3 p.m. Baseball: Davidson vs. West Liberty
6 p.m. College Bowl: Davidson vs. University of Arizona (Televised WBTV)

Tuesday, April 8
2 p.m. Golf: Davidson vs. Marietta
2 p.m. Track: Davidson vs. Trinity
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: Mr. Wilmer Welsh

Wednesday, April 9
3 p.m. Baseball: Davidson vs. Wake Forest

Staffers Consider Future Plans

By TOM SINKS Staff Writer

The role of the Davidson College Union in the future is presently being explored by a joint Union Board-Union staff committee. The new Union Committee, composed of Sam Boyte, Ed Embree, Jim Vest, Tom Suitor and Weldon Schenck, is presently studying the union's role in two ways. First, the committee has gone back through Union records to find who used the Union facilities. In this way they hope to see where a particular need is, and to see whether students or faculty and administrative personnel are using these facilities. Boyte pointed out that the Wildcat A dining room was used 111 times in the past year by the Union Board and Social Council and 53 times by non-Union groups. He also indicated that there was a need for a number of small meeting rooms. These smaller rooms could be used for placement interviews and similar meetings.

A second appraisal of Union needs will come from a questionnaire which has been distributed to students. The questionnaire will allow the students to indicate which programs they favor and allow them to suggest what course of action should be taken in regard to the physical plant of the Union. The committee hopes to be able to decide whether we should renovate the present building, renovate and enlarge it, or build an entirely new Union.

WILDCAT DEN
Now open under new management
Menu features pizzas & sandwiches at economical prices.
Hours: 10-2; 5:30-11.

Once the committee makes its report, no definite action will be taken, since the college has a number of problems presently, including renovation of the dorms.

MAIN ST. BASS CLEANERS
Lowest Rates In Town!
24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request
Closed All Day Wednesday

Lisa stood out on Sebastian's “Darling Be Home Soon,” with her voice expressing an internal echoing quality, and on “Pretty Sunday,” an enchanting piece which they wrote together. Alan provided a version of “Norwegian Wood,” which with Lisa's accompaniment was stimulating to say the least. Hardin's “Reason To Believe” seemed to place him most at ease. Even the bawdy found its way into the show with a playful parody of “Elusive Butterfly.” The act will appear tonight and tomorrow night in two shows each evening, at 8 and 9:15 p.m.

Creative Writing Entries Solicited

(Staff Photo by Weems)
LEATHERWOOD AND LISA SING
Kentucky Country highlights Hungry d.

Two creative writing awards are now open to students wishing to compete for them. The Department of English is accepting entries for the 1969 Vereen Bell Awards for creative writing.These awards are open to all students. Freshmen may also compete for the recently established R. Windley Hall Writing Award for Freshmen. The Vereen Bell Awards apply to creative writing of all recognized categories including the essay, the short story, the novel, drama, and poetry. This year the entries will be judged by George Garrett of Hollins College, who will announce his selections in an address on April 29. These awards are given in the memory of Vereen Bell, a Davidson graduate and promising writer who was killed at the age of 32 in the Second Battle of the Philippine Sea during World War II. The Vereen Bell Award carries a first prize of $30 and a second prize of $25. Last year's winner was Sam Gwynn, with Ashton Trice as runner-up. Gwynn won for his anthology of poems about his hometown of Eden, entitled "Songs From Eden." Details of the competition for the Vereen Bell Awards are available to interested students from any member of the English Department. The deadline for submitting writing for consideration is noon, April 21.

The R. Windley Hall Writing Award for Freshmen was just recently established, according to Dr. James Purcell, chairman of the English Department. Hall, who graduated from Davidson in 1963, was killed two years ago while a graduate student at Vanderbilt University. His short story, "The Lady and the Turtle," appeared in the Vanderbilt Magazine Spectrum a week before his death. The award has been established by friends and relatives of Hall, who was the son of Judge and Mrs. C. W. Hall, Durham. Hall majored in English at Davidson and was active in literary affairs. He was also a member of the football and swimming teams. After graduation, he served two years in the army as a second lieutenant.

"Thirteen Days" Exposes Doubt That Haunts President In Crisis

A REVIEW By JOHN McLEAN Managing Editor

The Book-of-the-Month Club called it "unique," a book which is like none other ever printed. It will probably remain a singular work for many years to come. In "Thirteen Days," the late Sen. Robert Kennedy presents a swiftly-moving narrative account of the 1962 Cuban missile crisis. The book is unique in that Americans have never had such an inside account of events of such earth-shaking significance told by one very powerful participant in the drama about an even more powerful man, the President of the United States.

It's needless to be reminded of the fact that both of these brothers have been taken by assassins' bullets. But the drama of this book lies not in that fact, but in the drama with his own limitations and—at the same time—the fate of mankind. Caught up in the swirl of events as they are retold, the reader is himself forced to weigh alternatives, and to face the unspeakable question which was always in the President's mind, that of the end of mankind. And, at the same time, one must deal with unknown quantities. Which letter will the President respond to: The first letter from the Kremlin, friendly and conciliatory? Or a later message, hardened and uncompromising?

There are many ironic twists to the drama which are just coming to light with the publication of this book. Robert Kennedy admits that neither he nor the President could actually make out objects that were unmistakably "missiles" from early reconnaissance photos but they had to accept the interpretation of the military experts. But they rejected the Joint Chiefs' proposal to launch a military invasion of Cuba to relieve the missile threat once and for all. The President's two closest advisers, Robert Kennedy and Robert McNamara, counseled against such moves, which would have invited reprisal, and instead proposed the naval blockade which was eventually put into effect.

Robert Kennedy never boasts of his own role in forming the policy the President adopted. He calls it a victory, and history will judge it as the highlight of John Kennedy's administration. But, as Kennedy says, it was not a victory for a leader or a nation, but a triumph for the people of the world and succeeding generations. Robert Kennedy's sincere treatment of ideals rather than pragmatic considerations in reaching a decision on the best response to Russia was impressive.

Robert Kennedy, as well as the President, was haunted by the specter of nuclear holocaust brought not by our enemies, but by ourselves. He remarks that "decisions would be so much easier to make if one didn’t always have to think of the children who had not lived and had a say in the decision made by leaders." Still, "Thirteen Days" comes to the reader in unfinished form, for Robert McNamara tells us, Kennedy had planned to add a discussion of the basic ethical question involved, whether any government had a right to cast its people under the shadow of nuclear annihilation.

New Cadets Lead

This week's drill was the first for the new cadet officers appointed by the ROTC Department last week. Heading the new group of officers is Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Sandy Brenneman who is the new Brigade Commander. Assisting Brenneman is the new Executive Officer, Cadet Major K. D. Weeks. Weeks' staff includes Cadet Captains Tom Poston, Joe Saunders, Joe Scales, and Tom Crawford. The new commander of the First Battalion is Cadet Major Joe Norton. Commanding the Second Battalion is Kerry Keith, also a Cadet Major. Their assistants are Cadet Captains Ronald Brown and Jeff Pflugner. New company commanders also took command this week. They are Tom Alison, Company A; Brodie Brown, Company B; John Croom, Company C; Sam Davis, Company D; David Fore, Company E; Tim Galley, Company F; Marshall Guill, Company G; and Frank Murphy, Company H. Robert Powell will command the Honor Guard and Chuck Mendenhall will command the Band Company.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

CONGRATULATIONS WILDCATS on fine season

Gurley's ESSO MAIN AND SOUTH STREETS PHONE 892-9304

Park Heads New Library Service

The Library of Davidson College has been granted access to the IN-WATS Information Service of the North Carolina State Library in Raleigh this week. The service gives the library direct around-the-clock access to the State Library via Inward Wide Area Telephone Service (IN-WATS). An automatic answering and recording device will accept calls when the State Library is closed. "This will mean a reduction of at least two days in interlibrary loan transactions," according to Philip Ogilvie, state librarian. Leland M. Park, head of reference, will have charge of this service in the College Library.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA

Your last check from home just bounced? Think it over, over coffee. The Think Drink. For your own Think Drink mug, send 75¢ and your name and address to: Think Drink Mug, Dept. N, P.O. Box 559, New York, N.Y. 10046. The International Coffee Organization.

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY Watch Repairs Main Street DAVIDSON, N. C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Cellar OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45 SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45 OPEN NIGHTLY Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun. often imitated never duplicated 300 E. Morehead Charlotte

Our KNIT SHIRTS Are Natty And great in Assortment. Combed cotton, Lisles, Orlons, and blends. Behind Conte's Clothing for the pace-setting Traditionalist John Mack & Son — Our 57th Year — Mooresville.