Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. Address correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON Editors-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
JACK WELLMAN Business Manager
FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1969

‘Copping Out’ On Co-eds

It appears that the strong voice for coeducation expressed earlier this year has faded away, if the response to the upcoming exchange with Randolph-Macon is any indication. The visiting ladies so far have been welcomed about as warm-heartedly as the Black Death of 1664. In general, two complaints have

Time Lapse Reporting

We goofed last week, miserably. It is what every editor fears happening, what he has a nightmare about, what he most dreads. THE DAVIDSONIAN ran the announcement of Daylight Savings Time a week early. We apologize. But we couldn't help laughing a bit, either.

The Presbyterian Church reported the largest attendance in ages at Sunday School as students, thinking it was 11 a.m. when it was actually 10, showed up an hour early for church. The Union Cafeteria could not be convinced that DST was not in effect, and proceeded to close up at 8 a.m. despite protests from hungry students. And in a perverse sort of way, the staff finally received some vindication in the knowledge that students do, after all, read THE DAVIDSONIAN. Because of which, we'll be more careful next time.

P.S. DST doesn’t really begin this week, either. It’s all a communist plot, and couldn't really be real, because, as one North Carolina farmer noted, “With that extra hour of sun a day, all my crops will be burned up.”

been lodged against the plans for the coed week. First, that the publicity for the week was poor, and secondly, that the week is going to be a great inconvenience to the students. Seemingly the answers to these two charges are simple. To the first, it can be said fairly that the sentiment in favor of a co-educational set-up of some sort has ranged from great to overwhelming all year. It was only natural that the committee would assume a large response to be inevitable. The second charge reflects a rather childish attitude. It was necessary that one group of students (i.e. two dormitories) move out during the week so that the girls could be housed on campus. To house them off-campus would spoil a large part of the co-educational experiment. Certainly the students involved in the move will be inconvenienced. But the effect of one week of mild inconvenience will certainly be more pleasant than the effect of a refusal to house the girls after plans have reached such a final stage.

The complaint of Richardson occupants is partly understandable, since they must move out for dance weekends, too, but that of residents of Little is not. Their protest has forced the planning committee to place the girls in two very old and shabby dormitories. The effect of that refusal has only served to enhance the popular theory that students here have degenerated into selfish and country-clubbish upper middle-classers who care only for their own well-being. In short, the response to the week has indicated that coeducation is no longer in very great demand at Davidson, for it would upset the balance of the current social system.

A Salute To The Colonel

The colonel is moving on. After five years at this institution and over thirty years in the Army, Colonel Frederick B. Outlaw, USA, is reentering the civilian sphere. Gruff, half scowling, the colonel presents a fearsome aspect to the unknowing freshman. Paid by the Army. Assigned to Davidson College. Some men would treat it as “just a job.” But the colonel has always made it his business to act primarily not for the Army, not for the College, but for the individual. This is not to say that he acted in opposition to the Army or the College, but that he placed the highest value on the students he counseled and assisted. He adapted instructions to best meet the needs of the students. He demanded top performance of his instructors.

The Right

Cornell University President James A. Perkins is to be commended for the stand which he took after gun-carrying students occupied a university building for 36 hours. Perkins told a convocation Monday that further occupation of buildings would not be tolerated and that no more guns would be allowed on the campus. But it was the manner in which he spoke, rather than the content of his speech, which is particularly admirable, for his address represented not administrative hostility to the student takeover, but a genuine concern

He was flexible in helping students work out programs that fit their needs, inflexible in his determination to go to bat for his students whether the issue was insuring a student his commission after a drill day prank or appealing seniors’ assignments to infantry. Colonel Outlaw, himself a graduate of a liberal arts college, stands out in our view as a man who gives the lie to those who paint men of such military position so unfavorably. There may indeed be such ogres in the military, but the colonel has shown himself to be a man of humane instincts, devoted to fairness and service to others. He is a man to be admired. We hate to see him go but wish him well wherever he goes.

Response and open willingness to communicate with the students. Police were called to the campus only when it was discovered that the 100 students emerged from the building with rifles, but no action was taken, since the guns were not loaded and thus no laws were broken. The manner in which the administration, especially Perkins, handled the Cornell situation could serve as an example to be followed by other campus officials across the country. A willingness to share ideas communicates much better with a hostile student than club-swinging policemen.

Dilapidated Dorms

In Watts, the wood is so rotten it won't hold nails. In Duke, it is necessary to walk through the showers on the third floor to get from one side to the other. In Richardson, you can’t depend on the clocks working, but on the other hand, unless you live in either Richardson or Little, there aren’t any clocks. Windows in Belk look as if they haven’t been cleaned in a year. It’s easy enough to go on, chronicling how in instance after instance the dorms are decadent. Watts had a sign up earlier in the year saying, “Watts is YOUR slum. Keep it clean.”

A student at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville related recently the psychological change a physical change in living conditions can produce. During the first year at UT, he had lived in an unfinished dorm. School had begun before work on the new building was complete, and the building was a bit on the dull and bare side. Conduct matched the conditions: water fights constantly, and perpetual damage. The next summer the dorm was completed, and in the finished building, damage dropped significantly below the previous year’s level. The whole atmosphere changed, and students took care of their accommodations when the accommodations were worth caring for.

Plans to renovate the dormitories this coming summer are quite welcome, but let us hope the plans go far, for there is much to remedy. Davidson may be an Ivory Tower, but the story is something else on the inside.

Battle Royal’ Rages On

leave his room.

From Our Wire Services

LITTLE RICHARDSON, N.C.—Early this morning secessionist forces in the breakaway provinces of Little and Richardson seemed to be gaining the upper hand in trench warfare with the federalist student government forces. The secessionist movement had begun when the federal student government had tried to ‘ram those females down our throat,” according to an angry Little resident. He was referring to an imminent invasion of female marauders (see picture) from distant Randy-Mac province. Federalist agents were suspected of collusion with “the enemy.”

Feeling that their inalienable rights had been hit below the belt, representatives from Little and Richardson sent formal protest to the federal officials, but met with

Student Hits Area

To The Editor:

The area exams pose a very real problem to the class of ‘72 and future classes. If anyone is to take the proposed bibliographies seriously, there is a great deal of work to be done by the student in preparation for these exams. I feel, as does perhaps the faculty and the administration, that the circulation of petitions demanding the immediate suspension and restudy of the area exams are motivated, at least partially, by the awe of the area exams. The motivation, however, should not interfere in the disappointing results.

Insults were exchanged. Peter Hoppie, leader of the federal forces, was quoted as rumored to have said that “They probably won't share beds with their wives, either,” but declined to explain his stand. Little and Richardson, in the interest of fair play, offered several “positive alternatives” to the use of their land for accommodating invaders. The Little and Richardson residents, obviously thinking that they were being singled out to receive the greatest benefits, offered a “share the wealth” plan whereby invading females could be housed in all the surrounding territories. Nearby Watts province, the scene of violent slum riots and rent strikes in the summer of 1966, offered to comply, provided no one had to

evaluation of the criticism of these exams; if the points are well taken, then they should be acted upon. The area exams are, admittedly, an innovation at Davidson College. The idea has generated two antipodal viewpoints, both adopted a priori; the truth of the matter is that the real value of the area exams is questionable and can be determined only by the careful analysis of performances of students who have successfully passed them. This puts the exams on a rather “experimental” basis, and, needlessTo say, it is quite possible that such an experiment could prove very costly and disastrous to an entering freshman. The plan was overturned, however, since it might have put a strain on the provincial Constitution’s proviso on the ‘Doctrine of Post Midnight Evil.’ As the situation stood in the early morning hours today, Little and Richardson seemed to have forced the student government's hand and even provided them with a face-saving out. A plebiscite in neighboring East and Cannon provinces granted the invading female marauders with territory enough to sustain their needs for a week. Although the compromise was viewed as ‘appeasement to the barbarians’ of the sort which spelled disaster for the Roman Empire, Little and Richardson hold-outs seemed willing to accept the stop-gap measure.

A proposal such as the one given by THE DAVIDSONIAN seems much more suitable. The proposed program still embodies the objectives of the Blue Sky Committee, but it does not break so strongly with traditional methods of education at Davidson as does the idea of area exams—i.e., it substantially reduces the experimental nature of the educational policy along with the costs involved for the “guinea pigs.”

Bill Beckmann ‘72
Davidson College

ROBERT PYEATT

Dear Beverly Axelrod:

The rhythms of the Return of the Black Man are crashing through the shallow noise of modern literature today, bringing not something new, only a return of self-conscious expression. But what is new is that for the first time large numbers of whites, naive and often insensitive, are reading black literature. The reasons for this are obvious. Compare “Soul on Ice” with any book on the white bestseller list last year. The sterility and emptiness of what passes for literature in our material middle-class white world contrast with the existential immediacy and vital force that Eldridge Cleaver unleashes, making “Myra Breckinridge” an insipid daydream and “The Money Game” a poor joke.

Don’t take your standard contemporary reading equipment when you go to read “Soul on Ice.” It rejects with contempt much of what Myers Park and Scarsdale hold dear and doesn’t look back for the warped shallow cursing: “convicted rapist.” It plunges into the prison crucible that settled Cleaver and Malcolm X and makes you realize that everywhere is a prison for the ghetto black man. He has been operated on, his soul incised and frozen dead until some future time when the vault will be unlocked and men will be healed.

Much of black literature is the contact and conflict with the environment that whites can read and appreciate, perhaps just glimpsing what it must be like, but cannot understand. There is just too much difference in the lives that whites and blacks have lived, too many barriers to communication. The experience of a black man in relation to black women is too difficult for us who have not lived it to penetrate. And black literature is of the total human condition, probing personal depths that the white can grasp and know the pain of isolation and the fear of empty gestures.

Cleaver’s section “Prelude to Love — Three Letters” to Beverly Axelrod is beautiful and universal. He has the deftness and personalness of Erich Fromm in “The Art of Loving” and the same underlying spiritual reality. “The Autobiography of Malcolm X” and “Soul on Ice” are the two greatest works of black literature. But a white person who wants to read black literature should probably start with “Invisible Man,” “The Fire Next Time,” “Notes of a Native Son” before he reads them. “Malcolm X” and “Soul on Ice” are the epitome of black consciousness to this point and immersion in this at first does not give one as complete an understanding as reading widely in black literature first.

Don’t begin these books with the unthinking assumption that property is sacred. They deny the sanctity of property and assume the sanctity of the individual. The status of man belongs only to man and cannot be transferred by suburb and television to possessions.

One reason that black students on white campuses rapidly become militant is that most of these black students come from black middle-class backgrounds, which is a world unto itself, largely cut off from Folsom Prison and Roxbury. When they come to the white campus they are suddenly different, a difference they have never known before. They are plunged into the same crucible with Malcolm and Cleaver, they are suddenly in a shadowy ghetto environment, suddenly on the fringes of the society they inhabit where before they were in the middle. For the first time they are cut off, estranged, surrounded, struggling for a whole existence. This makes them militant, inflexible in their demands, imminently concerned about where they are and where they are going, unwilling to accept the patronizing role of those who are not immediately concerned with their lives.

Black literature challenges the preconceptions we have accepted all our lives and is a liberating experience for the chained and straight-jacketed products of affluence. It will have a great effect on the shape of man’s collective acts.

Brinkley Raps Reporting Errors

To The Editor:

I know it is not reasonable to expect untrained and inexperienced reporters to measure up to the standards of professional journalism and I recognize that DAVIDSONIAN readers who have themselves been interviewed know that reports of interviews may in crucial details or in overall emphasis fail to resemble the interviews. Because, with others, I have felt victimized by misrepresentation in the past, I have not for several years consented to having remarks attributed to, or quoted from, me unless I had seen or had read back such remarks. My lack of consent has not, of course, prevented this from happening.

In the latest instance, a reporter came to me several weeks ago seeking information about the Davidson AAUP and I directed him to the chapter president and said that while I was not willing to say anything for attribution or quotation, I was willing to discuss chapter activities and prospects as background information which might guide asking the most helpful questions of the chapter president. Since that time no DAVIDSONIAN reporter has interviewed the now past president, but instead, there appears today a story apparently based entirely on discussion with me. I regard both the breach of confidence and the inaccuracy as failures of journalistic and moral judgment. Since, however, the entire story mentions no person other than me, I should like to correct some details:

(1) Although the chapter authorized a committee to explore such matters as inter-institutional cooperation, extra-campus responsibilities, public service, and desegregation of the faculty, the chapter has not taken any official action on these matters even if individual members of the chapter have made contributions to other groups independently investigating similar matters.

(2) While I might speculate on the possibility of collective interest and recommendation concerning various matters now under review by various presidential commissions and special committees, I would make no presumption concerning such groups releasing their findings. Such groups are charged to report to the President and I assume it will be President Spencer who will decide whether it would be appropriate to publish the findings. Anyone might assume that matters of deep concern to AAUP members might evoke their collective recommendations, especially after an intensive review of past policies and consideration of alternatives.

(3) Of course, the present religious tests for faculty appointment—which do not now require a formal oath of belief—continue to be a matter of concern to many and are appropriately being reviewed by the Commission on Church Relation. What I specifically called to the attention of the reporter was the fact that a national committee is reconsidering the AAUP 1940 statement on academic freedom and tenure and there is substantial support for a new statement of minimum conditions of academic freedom to replace a present provision which permits church-related institutions to impose any religious tests they may adopt so long as they are made explicit at the time of initial appointment.

(4) There is no doubt that AAUP studies of faculty compensation have made a very significant contribution to the improved economic status of the profession across the country. In recent years Davidson's compensation improvement program has maintained or improved Davidson's relative position among institutions of higher education. The reduced rate of improvement last year, related to the implementation of elements of the new curriculum and a reduction of the nominal teaching load to bring it to the level of better institutions and improve the college’s competitive position with regard to teaching load, does lower our relative standing in compensation. Unless the rate of improvement returns to or exceeds the national average (last year 7.5%), the college will fall behind other institutions with more aggressive rates of improvement.

(5) In recent years Davidson's AAUP membership has usually been a substantial majority of the faculty. National dues for those earning over $12,000 per year have recently been raised to $25, and we have had some decline in membership renewals; but national membership continues to increase favorably. Since all faculty members benefit from the achievements and work of the organization, some would say that support of the organization is a professional obligation, but it has long been true that at institutions where the faculty is well compensated and generally satisfied with the local situation, there is not much chapter zeal for aiding the rest of the profession not so favored.

Maybe these details will not seem enough different from the story to warrant such length, but to those attentive to such matters, an essential qualifier or the tone of emphasis makes a good deal of difference indeed. I do hope that DAVIDSONIAN reporters will come to recognize a distinction between a background discussion and an interview. For my part, I shall become even more cautious in talking to anyone who might be preparing a story for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Alan B. Brinkley
Davidson College