SERIES EXPLORES BLACK EDUCATION (See Page Three) ARMY COACH TOP CHOICE (See Page Five)

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students

Curfews: Still Stalled

New curfew rules—or lack of them—appear to remain stalled in the Dean’s Council, along with whatever other rule revisions that group plans. Although the dean of students was sick this week and other members of the Dean’s Council refused to comment on the standing of the revisions, the president's office said no report on the rules had been received. The dean said earlier all rules require the president’s approval, so rule changes still remain at least that far away.

ROTC: Either Way

The question of voluntary basic ROTC seems to be in the balance for now. Although the faculty did vote down a resolution calling for voluntary status, it required its Educational Policy Committee to bring a proposal back on the subject before the trustees meet May 9. The sentiment was clear: the faculty wants voluntary ROTC. But there was much doubt about the road to follow. On the student side, opinion is divided. The EPC has twice sent the student proposal back to the students, asking for more information. But students, like faculty, are not quite sure what the right road is. SGA President Peter Hobbie looks toward the trustee meeting as “the real watershed. It’s at this point that you'll sit back and reevaluate how things are going. You've got to give people a chance to do their job.” For ROTC, it all depends on the next week or so.

Cars And Scholarships: After April 15

In order for scholarship students to have cars, the group that has to consent is the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid, which is snowed under in wrapping up the admissions for the Class of ’73 and getting out scholarship applications. So it will not be until things slow a bit after April 15, the admissions deadline, that the committee can look at the matter. “The matter” is a comprehensive report prepared by a student committee and approved by the Senate early this term. The report was termed by Peter Hobbie as “probably one of the best examples of what really good work in student government means.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1969

FACULTY TO INTEGRATE

President Defends Compulsory ROTC

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Editor-In-Chief

Compulsory basic ROTC drew backing from President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. this week in a press conference. Although he said the ROTC issue “is not one that is vital to Davidson College as an educational institution,” he defended the two-year requirement as desirable in itself and necessary to the maintenance of the option of advanced ROTC. The president also said he favored placing recent graduates on the Board of Trustees; announced that the ROTC Department would have a Negro officer teaching next term, thus integrating the faculty; promised administrative and possible financial aid to fraternities going local; and indicated that the probability of self-scheduled exams was almost “zero.”

“If a student doesn’t go to advanced ROTC, the basic course I think may well be of advantage to him,” said Spencer, “first of all in giving him some first-hand knowledge about the military in a world where military power is a reality... and where at least at this point there is a universal military obligation.”

“As far as it being compulsory for the first two years,” he continued, “if this is necessary to preserving that option (to take advanced ROTC), then I think it’s worth the price. Even if it isn’t necessary for preserving a unit (at Davidson), it doesn’t seem to me to be a particularly onerous or nefarious kind of requirement.”

“We require other things. We require physical education because we think that this has some value. It is not part of the academic curriculum, but we feel it has some value, so we require it.”

The president said placing recent graduates on the Board of Trustees was “a very good thing to do. As a matter of fact, this is one of the things I suggested to Mr. Lingle (Walter L. Lingle Jr., chairman of the Board of Trustees) in our correspondence, and he was also sympathetic to this.”

Spencer took essentially no position on the closing of all faculty meetings to students, explaining that the faculty constitution was written before he became president and he was not familiar with reasons for details in it. But he did say that “it seems to me legitimate for organizations like the faculty of the college, if it wishes, to have meetings which are not open.”

On the subject of integrating the college staff, Spencer said that few positions had opened up, and that despite efforts to fill the positions with Negro applicants, no qualified black applicants had been available. Faculty integration will be achieved, however, with a Negro ROTC officer, who will teach here next year. Spencer attributed the idea to a student at Open End last fall, and said the officer was assigned at the college's request. But for faculty hiring in general, the president cited several difficulties. “The pool of qualified candidates is extremely small,” he said, and many colleges are competing for Negro PhDs. Also, “the preference and question of the feeling of responsibility on the part of the candidates” affects recruiting.

“What I mean by that is this: I think there are a great many black people today who themselves are torn because of their not being able to determine what their responsibility may be. Suppose you are a black candidate for a faculty position. Is it better for you in...

Talismans, Excedrin Aid Bowl Team In Victory Over Colgate

By DAVID SWEATT
Associate Editor

“I think it's fair to say,” mused College Bowl coach Charles Lloyd, “that they were expecting us to be a bunch of rubes, but we showed them otherwise.” Davidson’s team beat a strong Colgate team Saturday afternoon by a convincing margin. Colgate fell by a score of 280 to 110 and moved back up the Hudson while the nervous Wildcat team stayed on for a Sunday afternoon contest with a team from the University of Arizona. The Davidson-Arizona session was taped to appear locally this Sunday afternoon on WSOC. The winner of that game is scheduled to meet Wesleyan University Saturday, April 12.

To what do team members attribute their success? “Luck,” quipped Tim Timmons. “The Arizona game wasn't nearly as good. We beat them in all four practice rounds, so maybe we weren't up for it as much.” Before the Colgate game team members “prepared” themselves by just thinking about the match. “That's sufficient,” said Timmons. Members of the team carried study books with them but ended up whiling away Friday night playing bridge at their Warrick Hotel accommodations. Breakfast for the team included the special eye-opener of running into a group Davidson contestants thought were the Colgate team. The afternoon session bore out their suspicions.

The New York team’s fans dominated the audience, outnumbering the friends and relatives of Davidson competitors. The show itself was nerve-racking for at least three of the team members. Notepads provided for calculations took the brunt of the tension. Timmons scribbled “I'm going to die,” time after time interspersed with what he described as “little Protestant prayers.” Robert Bryan tried to calm Timmons, supplementing Timmons’ supplications with his own Anglican prayers inscribed in Latin. “Tighten up,” served Dick...Anderson's purposes as he filled his pad with 64 inscriptions of his own special incantation. “I doubt if Sam was writing anything at all," guessed Timmons, as he acknowledged Sam Gwynn as the most steady-nerved member of the team. Alternate Bob Reid was important to the team though he did not compete, according to Lloyd. Reid scouted the other team during the practice sessions, evaluating their strengths and weaknesses and giving encouragement to his teammates. “Bob was the single most useful member of the team,” said Anderson. Television viewers should enjoy the Arizona game. The highpoint may be provided by captain Robert Bryan. Bryan got so nervous in the Arizona game that he bit his knuckle hard enough during the show to cause it to bleed. Like other victors, Davidson team members are beginning to see patterns behind victory. “The guys are beginning to get superstitious; they're keeping the same things in their pockets and Robert Bryan took an Excedrin before the second game, not because he needed it, but because he had taken one before the first game,” said Timmons. Team members have a special inside joke they relate at half-time. Sworn to secrecy, they won't relate it to anyone until it's all over. To top it all off, Lloyd had team members touch his own special talisman before each of the games. What was it? A pocket Studebaker insignia. Crazy? Maybe winners don't need to explain themselves.

They won't relate in terms of your responsibilities to the whole problem of racial advancement to go to a predominantly white institution like ours and in a sense to act as an educator of a predominantly white community? “Or is it better to go to the predominantly Negro institution?” Spencer also said predominantly black institutions resented raids by the white institutions which pull away their more talented faculty members. “One such institution had three of its best faculty members snatched off by white institutions. There was great resentment because they felt that the leadership was being pulled out of their faculty to satisfy the desire of a predominantly white institution to have some Negro faculty members.” The president described another conflict of values problem: “Suppose you are faced with the necessity of filling a vacancy, and you have one candidate who is far superior to the other, and the second candidate happens to be black, are you going to take the inferior candidate because he happens to be black? Or is the responsibility to the students in that department such that you take the better candidate regardless of whether he is black or white?” On housing, Spencer said that any black member of the staff or white member (See SPENCER, Page 6).

PRESIDENT SAMUEL R. SPENCER JR. Justifies compulsory ROTC position.

Faculty Sidelines Voluntary ROTC Group To Seek Experts’ Advice

By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Visits to several area colleges and consultation with at least three experts on campus sociological trends will be on the agenda of the President's Commission on Social Patterns during the next two months. The commission, composed of students, faculty members, and trustees, has met 18 times since it was appointed along with the other four commissions last November, according to C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union and commission chairman. Smith said the commission plans to present its findings at the end of this term. The commission has been concerning itself with three principal facets of campus living, Smith said: dormitory life; small group activity, such as the fraternity system; and total campus activity, principally centered in the College Union. Smith said he had been distressed by poor attendance from fraternity members at the commission’s several open hearings. “I've been very disappointed that more fraternity members have not taken part,” he said. He attributed it to fraternity members’ apparent satisfaction with the present setup. The fraternity issue has taken up a large part of the commission's time, Smith said, but it has also been studying other aspects of the Davidson social environment. He said that the commission is still examining several residence hall alternatives. “However, it's a bit premature to speculate on just what the group will recommend,” he said. “I do think, though, that this commission will attempt to endorse a social program which will seem natural rather than forced.” Visits to other colleges in the area will probably include the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and St. Andrews. Smith said the purpose of these visits would be to gather ideas.

The visiting experts are Dr. William Eastman and Dr. Clifford Reifler of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Dr. Arthur Chickering of Goddard College in Vermont. Chickering has done a study of social patterns on college campuses that embraced 12 different campuses. The commission was appointed last fall by the president's office, the student government, and the chairman of the Board of Trustees.

FRESHMAN SUSPENDED

The Honor Court suspended a freshman for a year and a half this week for violation of the Honor System provision prohibiting stealing. The plea was guilty. The conviction will apparently end the recent rash of money thefts in freshman dorms. The freshman indicated that he would appeal his sentence to the Faculty Executive Committee, but the results of the appeal were not available at press time.

Ervin To Speak Here On Monday

North Carolina Senator Sam Ervin will speak in the Morrison Room of the College Union at 10 a.m. Monday. Ervin, first elected senator from North Carolina in 1954, is now the second-ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee and is chairman of its subcommittee on Constitutional Rights, Revision and Codification of the Laws, and Separation of Powers. He has become nationally recognized as an authority on constitutional law. Born in Morganton in 1896, he received an A.B. degree from the University of North Carolina in 1918 and an LLB from Harvard Law School in 1922. He served with the U.S. armed forces in World War I and has practiced law since 1922, except while serving in other capacities. He was elected to the General Assembly in 1923, 1925, and 1931. He served as judge of the Burke County criminal court from 1935-1937 and was appointed to the Superior Court in 1937 where he served six years before returning to private practice. He served one term as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives during 1946-47 and was associate justice of the N.C. Supreme Court during 1948-54. The senator is a member of the Armed Services and Government Operations committees in addition to his judiciary post. Ervin was a trustee of Davidson from 1948 to 1958, and he is a member of numerous professional and civic organizations. Ervin will be available for a question and answer period following his speech and possibly for further discussion after lunch.

Data Request Added

The faculty backed away from voluntary ROTC last week, but sent it to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) with instructions to report back to the faculty before the May 9 trustee meeting. Brought up from the floor, the resolution asked “that the Davidson College faculty reaffirm its conviction that the ROTC program at Davidson must be on a voluntary basis. And that each entering student should be allowed to make his own decision concerning such participation after adequate orientation into Military Science.” Implicit in the referral to the EPC was a request for statistics on the question, said the president's office. Students bringing a similar resolution to the EPC had been twice turned down by the EPC, which requested information from other schools about voluntary programs. SGA President Peter Hobbie said this week that the student government would (See ROTC, Page 6).

SEN. SAM ERVIN TO SPEAK MONDAY
North Carolina Democrat to discuss politics.