Page Four January 17, 1969

She Davidsonian

Expert On India Warily Optimistic

Dr. Ed. B. Jones, coordinator of Asian-African studies at Furman University, spoke in assembly Tuesday on the twenty years of Indian independence. Jones has been in India twice. His studies were subsidized by grants from the Fulbright Foundation and the American Institute of Indian Studies.

Jones is optimistic about India. Steps are being taken towards controlling population and freeing agriculture from its dependence upon monsoon rains, Jones said. The average life expectancy has risen from 32 years in 1947 to 50 years today, according to Jones.

India has been described as a land of “children without bread, men without work, and women without hope.” Indians suffer from malnutrition, disease, “the world’s worst slums,” and little economic opportunity, Jones said. The annual per capita income is less than eighty dollars.

According to Jones, great population is “perhaps the most crucial problem in India today.” With a probable population of 600 million, India contains 14% of the world population. Only 30% of these people are literate. Gains made in the areas of food production and income are always countered by an annual increase of 13 million people, Jones said.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, January 17
8:15 p.m. Movie: “The Silencer” Morrison Room

Saturday, January 18
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs VMI Blacksburg, Va.
8:15 p.m. Movie: “The Silencer” Morrison Room

Sunday, January 19
8 p.m. Queens Fine Film Series: “Viridiana” Dana Auditorium

Monday, January 20
10 a.m. Assembly: SGA presidential speeches Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Open End

Wednesday, January 22
7 p.m. Investment Club Chambers B-J Union Lobby
8 p.m. Fine Films: “Shoot the Piano Player” Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Movie: “A Man For All Seasons” Morrison Room
10 p.m. Union Coffee House

Thursday, January 23
10 a.m. Assembly: President Spencer, Dean Johnston, Dean Burts Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs. Princeton Charlotte, N.C.

Friday, January 24
8:15 p.m. Movie: “A Man For All Seasons” Morrison Room

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

JONES DESCRIBES INDIA
Professor cites population figures.

Political Actions Threaten PRAM With Blacklist

By ED SHOAF
Staff Writer

Now in its fourth year of operation, the Project of the Americas (PRAM) is in real danger of losing its present identity. According to PRAM official Jim Parks, the political actions of PRAM founder Fred Ehlers in Ecuador have not only hurt the student exchange program but conceivably could destroy it.

ODE Taps 5 Seniors

The Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon, national economics honor society, inducted seniors Joe Murphy, Tom Poston, Sam Tallman, Rick Travilla, and Frank Wise in ceremonies Nov. 22.

Students Relaxing In Bed, But It’s Flu, Not Vacation

By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Junior Dave Sweatt lay back on his cot in the ten-bed infirmary ward and said, “If they'd serve liquor up here we'd all get well a lot faster, but they don’t.”

Sweatt and 15 other students were in the infirmary with the flu, the latest batch of some 50 cases on campus reported to the infirmary since Christmas, according to Dr. James B. Woods Jr., college physician.

Most of the nine students in the ward were in good humor, though they had some half-quipping complaints: “The shower up here doesn't work,” said junior Gary Henschen, “and the hall phone doesn't either, but we wouldn’t care about those if they'd let us have the television.” The infirmary has only one set: the downstairs ward was watching the NBA All-Star game. Henschen also joked, “They don't serve us enough juice,” although the nurses, who have been working twelve-hour shifts, serve pineapple-grapefruit, grape, and orange juice five times daily.

There were no complaints about beds, apparently bearing out Dr. Woods’ contention that the infirmary was “a weekend resort with all the comforts of home.” However, Sweatt did point out that his pajamas had no buttons, “except in a strategic location.”

Woods said that the staff kept about sixteen students in the infirmary, which is its full capacity. “The flu is fairly widespread throughout the Davidson community, judging by the business at my office in town,” Woods said, “but whether or not this constitutes an epidemic, I don't know. When does a prevalent disease become an epidemic?”

Woods added that this disease was not necessarily the Hong Kong flu, since the symptoms of Hong Kong flu were much the same as those of other varieties. “I hope it’s all the

Rogers Leading Effort To End Dormitory Theft

Stewart Rogers, freshman senator from Cannon dorm, is spearheading an effort to end the series of thefts which have occurred in Cannon over the past few months. Commenting that “it is just ridiculous that these things should be allowed to go on and on,” Rogers said a list of stolen articles will be turned over to area police. The Honor Court has also been notified of the thefts in case students were involved.

Over the past months, various articles, such as watches, money, and tapes have disappeared from Cannon dorm and the adjoining parking lot. Rogers has urged students to be particularly careful about valuables left in rooms and cars.

New Federal Act Backs Loans To Non-Residents

By College Press Service

New legislation which makes it possible for a student to borrow money for educational expenses from his school regardless of his state of residence has gone into operation under the Guaranteed Student Loan Program.

The new type of loan is authorized by recent amendments to Congress’ Higher Education Act of 1965. In most states, before the amendments were enacted, loans to non-resident students could not be insured. The amendments permit the Federal Government to insure loans made by a college to a student who does not have access to a state or private loan insurance program.

The amendments also open the way for such organizations as commercial lending companies, insurance companies, and pension funds to make federally insured loans to students. Many of these organizations had been willing to loan to students but had not been able to guarantee the loans.

Students may borrow up to $1,500 a year to a maximum of $7,500, including loans made for graduate study. Repayment begins after

WESTERN AUTO
LAY-AWAY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS

KITCHEN HELP WANTED
$2.25 per hr.
Apply HEREFORD BARN RESTAURANT
4320 Interstate 85 N.
Closed Sunday
596-0854

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

the student has left school and may be extended over a period of from five to ten years, with deferment while serving in the military, Peace Corps, or VISTA, or during periods of return to full-time study. The federal government pays all interest charges (7 per cent a year) on behalf of a student whose adjusted family income is less than $15,000 a year, until repayment begins.

but we wouldn’t care about those if they'd let us have the television.” The infirmary has only one set: the downstairs ward was watching the NBA All-Star game. Henschen also joked, “They don't serve us enough juice,” although the nurses, who have been working twelve-hour shifts, serve pineapple-grapefruit, grape, and orange juice five times daily.

There were no complaints about beds, apparently bearing out Dr. Woods’ contention that the infirmary was “a weekend resort with all the comforts of home.” However, Sweatt did point out that his pajamas had no buttons, “except in a strategic location.”

Woods said that the staff kept about sixteen students in the infirmary, which is its full capacity. “The flu is fairly widespread throughout the Davidson community, judging by the business at my office in town,” Woods said, “but whether or not this constitutes an epidemic, I don't know. When does a prevalent disease become an epidemic?”

Woods added that this disease was not necessarily the Hong Kong flu, since the symptoms of Hong Kong flu were much the same as those of other varieties. “I hope it’s all the

Davidson’s Oldest Finding New Life

By STEVE CROSS
Staff Writer

The Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies are the two oldest organizations on the Davidson College campus and two of the least-known as well.

“The Phi Society, founded in 1837, was a literary and debating society, and a great influence on campus life until the 1890s,” said Robert Bryan. Bryan is the “agent” for the Philanthropic Society. “That means I'm program chairman and jack-of-all-trades,” he said.

The Phi Society collaborated with the Eu society to publish the first yearbook and the first literary magazine, and was the nearest thing on campus to a student government, according to Bryan. With the advent of student government in the 1890s and the introduction of Greek letter fraternities in the 1920s, the literary societies lost so much power and influence that they nearly disappeared. According to Bryan, no records survive of the Philanthropic Society’s activities from the twenties to the forties.

An unsuccessful attempt to revive the Phi society five years ago left it just as moribund as before. Last year, it had only two active members: Heyward Whetsell and Bill Sosaman. The Phi group has inducted members twice and now has twenty-three people. Last Tuesday, Dr. T. A. Williams of the French Department lectured the group on “The Elements of Parapsychology.” The Phi Society is now preparing to induct freshmen, Bryan said. Whetsell, a senior, is its president. The Eumenean Society, now primarily a poet's club, still has members, but its president Ashton Trace withdrew from school during the first term of this year. 

ments to Congress’ Higher Education Act of 1965. In most states, before the amendments were enacted, loans to non-resident students could not be insured. The amendments permit the Federal Government to insure loans made by a college to a student who does not have access to a state or private loan insurance program.

The amendments also open the way for such organizations as commercial lending companies, insurance companies, and pension funds to make federally insured loans to students. Many of these organizations had been willing to loan to students but had not been able to guarantee the loans.

Students may borrow up to $1,500 a year to a maximum of $7,500, including loans made for graduate study. Repayment begins after

WESTERN AUTO
LAY-AWAY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS

KITCHEN HELP WANTED
$2.25 per hr.
Apply HEREFORD BARN RESTAURANT
4320 Interstate 85 N.
Closed Sunday
596-0854

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

the student has left school and may be extended over a period of from five to ten years, with deferment while serving in the military, Peace Corps, or VISTA, or during periods of return to full-time study. The federal government pays all interest charges (7 per cent a year) on behalf of a student whose adjusted family income is less than $15,000 a year, until repayment begins."Same variety," said sophomore Brian Smith, "because if we don't all have the same germs, then we can catch each other's, and we'd be up here with sixteen consecutive cases of flu." Smith added, "There ought to be some way to let the professors know who's in the infirmary. It really chaps you to get cuts for being laid up."

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Reno Marina
Highway 273
Monday—Friday
4 miles from Davidson
Open 'til 12:30 a.m.

Hub

WANTED: Men and women to train for Civil Service examinations. We prepare men and women age 18-55, no experience necessary. Grammar school education usually sufficient. Permanent jobs, no layoffs. Short hours, high pay, and advancement. Stay on present job while training. For a list of jobs and salaries, send name, address, phone number, and time at home. If rural, give directions to home. Write to CISCO TRAINING SERVICE, P.O. Box 65, Blairs, Va. 24527.

PRAM's good standing with the State Department. Until last year, Ehlers, a former Davidson student, was the head of the Latin American arm of PRAM. However, over the past year, he has become increasingly involved in Ecuadorian politics. At present, Ehlers is President of the Socialist Party in Ecuador. This, according to Parks, has caused him to neglect the PRAM organization, limiting the exchange program. Raul Bolanos, a Richardson Scholar here last year, has carried on some part-time work for PRAM in Ehlers’ absence but has been unable to carry the full load. Ehlers has not formally separated himself from PRAM. Parks said his actions thus could cause the State Department to blacklist PRAM. Recently, Ehlers has begun injecting anti-American statements into his speeches, according to Parks. Ehlers’ statements and the possibility that he is associated with Ecuadorian guerillas is against the PRAM policy of having no political affiliations. According to PRAM Director Blake Anderson, PRAM must now reorganize itself. PRAM could possibly dissolve itself and organize a new corporation to dissolve its association with Ehlers. Another possible course of action, according to Anderson, is an association with the University of Quito. Anderson stated that PRAM's future is now very uncertain. He does hold faith in its ideals. He said, "Our colleagues in South America are more or less convinced that talking and learning and listening are out. We would hope to prove these people wrong."

Federal Spending Increase
By College Press Service

Suggesting that the federal government take a more active part in the financing of higher education in America has been a popular pastime lately. So has championing the right of every able student to an education, regardless of his ability to pay. Those were the dual notes sounded again shortly before Christmas by the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education, in a report called "New Level of Federal Responsibility." Clark Kerr, former president of the University of California at Berkeley and now chairman of the Carnegie Foundation-funded commission, explains his proposals in terms of "quality and quantity" for higher education in the 1970s. By 1976-77, he says, the federal government will have to be bearing one-third of higher education’s total cost in this country (estimated at $13 billion) as opposed to the one-fifth it now carries. If it does not assume this responsibility, the commission says, the quality of the nation’s already pinching universities will decline almost beyond retrieval, and they will become unable to open their doors to students who cannot pay exorbitant tuition fees. A major guiding premise of the Commission report is that as long as most of society is going to regard a diploma as a ticket to jobs and economic security, higher education must be made available to many more poor students. Taking in all those students who apply is an impossible solution, but not while the colleges are organized as they are today. "Letting them in" and then flunking them out because they don't understand what is going on there is not a solution. Before this plan can be adopted, colleges will have to develop programs to acclimate these students to college, to train them in some skills they do not have, but more important, to change the college into an institution compatible with American subcultures and minority races.

GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

KELLY CLOTHING COMPANY
Finest in Men's Apparel
Phone 664-1424
222 North Main Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
HUBBARD PANTS — MANHATTAN SHIRTS — NUNN-BUSH SHOES — TEX TAN BELTS — BURLINGTON GOLD CUP SOCKS — BEAU BRUMMEL TIES — MANHATTAN PAJAMAS

INDIVIDUAL DINNER $1.25 plus tax
3 pieces of chicken, slaw, potatoes
"COLONEL SANDERS' RECIPE"
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, N.C.

According to a Nov. 28 article in the Winston-Salem Journal, the Davidson College Library ranks second in the number of volumes per student among North Carolina colleges and universities, the N.C. Leader of Raleigh reported in an article of Dec. 28. According to the report, the Davidson library contained 137 volumes per student. Duke University headed the list with 262 books per student. The 1967 survey listed the books per student of the following: UNC-Chapel Hill, 99; UNC-Greensboro, 74; N.C. State, 43; and Western Carolina with 19. The Davidson College Library now has passed the 150,000 volume mark. UNC-CH had 1,500,000 volumes, UNC-G had 375,000 volumes, N.C. State had 425,000 volumes, and Western Carolina had 35,000 volumes, according to a Nov. 28 article in the Winston-Salem Journal. In a memo to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Leland Park, director of reference and student personnel of the library, listed several areas of accomplishment. These included a ratio of professional librarians to students of 1 to 167. The N.C. Board of Higher Education suggested in a 1968 study that the minimum ratio be 1 to 300. Park noted the exploration of means of cooperation with area libraries. "Davidson has this under continual review and action," Park said. Park said, "We've still got a way to go here, compared to some of our northern brethren, but we are apparently pulling ahead in our area."

DON'T LOOK NOW
But you may be about to blow your life

An astonishing number of people make a stupid and tragic mistake. To put it simply, they jump into careers without really looking. The result—a dreary life of frustration and anger. Can this happen to you? Could be—unless you can answer questions like these to your own satisfaction before you make your move: Are you really a Chief...or an Indian? Do you belong in a big organization? Or a small one? Or do you belong by yourself? Can you really stand pressure? There are a great many serious questions you must ask—and answer—about a career. But the most critical are the ones you ask yourself about you. Unless you can answer them honestly, it makes little sense to ask, for example, "What’s it really like to be an investment banker?" Careers Today can tell you what it’s like to be an investment banker. More important, this meaningful new magazine can help you decide whether becoming an investment banker is even a sensible option for you in the first place! It’s a magazine about careers that starts not with jobs, but with people. And it's dedicated to the proposition that you must do your own thing...and that if you don't, you run the grave risk of blowing your life. Careers Today is relevant. For people who are searching...from people who have discovered how to do their own thing. How about you? Could you use a little truth at this point in your search? Use the coupon below or the coupon in the colorful brochure distributed with this paper...to enter your Charter Subscription to CAREERS TODAY, at the special Charter price of just $5 for one year (11 issues) instead of the regular post-Charter price of $10.

CAREERS TODAY
P.O. Box 2457, Terminal Annex
Los Angeles, California 90054

I'd like to become a Charter Subscriber to CAREERS TODAY. I understand that I pay just $5, instead of the regular $10 annual rate, and that this entitles me to receive CAREERS TODAY for one full year (11 issues).

MR. MRS. MISS NAME
ADDRESS
CITY STATE ZIP
COLLEGE AND YEAR
FIELD OF STUDY