Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except in holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter in Davidson, N.C. 28036. Subscription rates: $5.00 per year, $9.00 for two years. Mailed, JACK WELLMAN Business
Manager BOB CUNNINGHAM Advertising Manager FRANK ANDERSON Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1969

Better Way To Sartre

There is one purpose which the school would do well to start back-to-basics and deal with: the area exams. The
proposal seeks to involve every Davidson student at the time of his graduation in a broad knowledge of several critical
areas of the liberal arts. The object, then, is tremendous. The exam proposal, while it pours a gallon of water
on the traditional approach and the liberal arts ideal, is offensive. The expectation that freshmen and sophomores can cover that
amount of material entirely on their own, and with that much depth, is preposterous. The designers of the test could
well have studied some of the psychology of learning going on in the North Basement. For if the college wants
a thorough area preparation, and is serious about it, it would take an approach other than outmoded area exams. The
fundamental idea behind the exams is tremendous; it is the means we disagree with. No student should go through a
liberal arts education without encountering Sartre, dealing with the problems of psychological experimentation, understanding what counterpoint is, or being chilled
by Yeats’ “Cast a cold eye on life, on death: Horseman, pass by.” — not to mention having some feel
for the necessity of science and technology and their effects on man. And we are willing to go even further.
It is time for Davidson College to reappraise the exam completely, and put in their place a program that meets
the ideal of the liberal arts more closely. If the SKY Committee does not go that far, and rather tries
to bridge the gap, call it the cash we work by unduly bold, treading where the angels fear to go.
But in the interest of being conservative, we offer an alternate proposal: Let freshmen and sophomores take two courses a
term throughout both years, fulfilling area requirements in courses similar to the present ones. But instead of the third course,
assign each student to an area adviser (one adviser in each area) who would supervise a student’s work in the
area. Also set up seminars in each area, with attendance not required but expected, to give the opportunity for students
to pursue the topics and to allow for a free interchange of ideas. The ideal would be a two-year period
of non-graded courses and work in the four areas, thus exciting the enthusiasm of the students and giving them a
chance to explore. The program would mean a two-way division of the four years of education: two years of general
exploration and two years of concentrated major work. In any event, something better be done soon, or the whole Class
of ’72 may follow Lefty to Maryland.

Behind Closed Doors

It has been an established practice in an open, free, and democratic society, where decisions are supposedly based on free
interchange of ideas and the rule of reason and good sense, that meetings of legislative groups are open to attendance
and inspection by those they govern. But Davidson's faculty is not this way. For whether they are scared of having
students question their opinions, whether they are afraid of losing the mystique of authority which comes from meeting secretly, or
for whatever reason, their closed meetings violate every principle of responsibility and education that they have themselves asserted. Is it
not hypocritical to encourage on one hand the pursuit of truth, fuller understanding, free inquiry, and open exchange of ideas
and on the other hand close to students proceedings where the very proposals considered may have been student-written? But is
it not foolish, in a time where misunderstanding between students and faculty can be potentially disastrous, to cut off a
very effective means of facilitating student-faculty understanding? Moreover, is it not a bit childish to hide behind a closed meeting
lest opinions meet disagreement? Now we're not insisting on opening all faculty meetings. There are times when meetings rightly should
be private, but these occasions do not include the times when the faculty deals with student affairs. But, perhaps one
of the professors was right when he said that one could tell by the faculty voting records who had just
received a college loan for a house. And if it is otherwise, where is the evidence? After all, maybe the
faculty does discuss student sex life, and then dispose of ROTC in 10 minutes, as last week's letter suggested. But
if the faculty isn't willing — whatever the reason — to meet in open sessions and take the risks that
students must take in expressing their opinions, then perhaps the faculty should look again at what it's been preaching to
students. A life like that is incompatible with teaching the liberal arts.

Odds ‘N’ Ends

Several odds and ends that cropped up this week could well bear comment. First, there was the fraternity hazing, a
situation at best stupid and at worst unconscionable. It made the IFC and its president as much of a farce
as the SGA's civil disobedience of its own constitution. And the constitution, by the way, is needed back to the
voters. The student government goofed again, and in its rush to ditch the Court of Appeals was careless. So another
few days will be wasted as the student government rearranges legalities again. Still moving on to cars and scholarships. President
Spencer deserves a medal of some sort for taking the responsibility for making the decision. At least someone around this
place has had the guts to say “I'm responsible.” But we can't help but wonder why it never occurred to
faculty members dealing with the matter (or more properly, trying to dodge the matter) that it was the president's right
to decide, and not their own or the whole faculty's. It seems incredible that authority at Davidson is so amorphous.
As a student on a faculty committee said recently, it seems that when a decision is to be made, those
concerned all decide who is to make it and what procedures to follow. Who's in charge here, anyway? Then there's
Judge Wyzanski's opinion in Boston last week that said Congress couldn't discriminate against nonbelievers by granting conscientious objector status only
on the basis of religion. We commend him. Would that we could only rate likewise for the college presidency and
faculty, (not to mention the trustees, who must “accept the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as the revelation
of God's will, the final guide in matters of faith and practice,” and “believe in the fundamental teachings of Evangelical
Christianity,” whatever those teachings are.)

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Spencer's ROTC Stand Attacked

To The Editor: Admittedly, one letter or editorial probably will not alter or even affect the ultimate decision on ROTC.
But it is hoped that Mr. Spencer, who evidently is determined to make a decision already made, will at least
consider the following points. First, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Seventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Eighth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Ninth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Tenth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Eleventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twelfth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Thirteenth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fourteenth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifteenth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Sixteenth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Seventeenth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Eighteenth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Nineteenth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twentieth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Twenty-first, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twenty-second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Twenty-third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twenty-fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twenty-fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Twenty-sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twenty-seventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Twenty-eighth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Twenty-ninth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Thirtieth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Thirty-first, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Thirty-second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Thirty-third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Thirty-fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Thirty-fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Thirty-sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Thirty-seventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Thirty-eighth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Thirty-ninth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fortieth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Forty-first, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Forty-second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Forty-third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Forty-fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Forty-fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Forty-sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Forty-seventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Forty-eighth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Forty-ninth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fiftieth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Fifty-first, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifty-second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Fifty-third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifty-fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifty-fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Fifty-sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifty-seventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Fifty-eighth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Fifty-ninth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Sixtieth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Sixty-first, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Sixty-second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Sixty-third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Sixty-fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Sixty-fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Sixty-sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Sixty-seventh, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Sixty-eighth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Sixty-ninth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Seventieth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Seventy-first, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Seventy-second, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC
unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees.
Seventy-third, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It
is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Seventy-fourth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College
is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of the Board of Trustees. Seventy-fifth, the decision to
grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision of the faculty. It is a decision of
the Board of Trustees. Seventy-sixth, the decision to grant a combatant ROTC unit to Davidson College is not a decision
of the faculty.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

den wor, abbreviated to wey anmae [if you say it Waild bitte. ath one “1x Adtt an editor 10 a
Vivieliie college paper, to have the students face what Lino anand Ube tis enalelyatard eam. A Southern wyecit, who worked
burrd Uo divi riny tanaue of thin cadrapiitd cracker dimlot, t ain aahain ed when [ boar these extl- fithoristn
wit anadil on Hee: ing their Insufferable Negro patois, thie Isnytardl Enghiat they ebinke & uw mach i we geriority.
To The Editor: if you eave the aliihtont Peanrd for the repiiiitlon of your jorh water ontlese. tnve the oanch
reptnee Rohest tye on ihe Catleye Hawt Team next Suistiny wil someone who ean speak ihe Enciish Laorurge. T Know
the North Canotisua wecent be wellotth umbeur- obfe ta the wullignlot car, Wut ahs Heys «= Peoclnits peoudy to the
word (40 million peopbe watch Calley Baw) thwexthing the South: vrnwe of pooal munkity tries to tive duwna — the
narrowness. (hie bitters. the ‘Ciwenols, Linas, Bile, Bastlaods. seid Shauthurr) dhe (yachings by Ue rednicks who takk sino dhats tho
mide chatvinist whe ¢ogmrd livelt samen iat plgnnis. Se tele othe het) off the Jaiveis yrered Wee shag duit -toodraed
Mey! (run Now Ocheate speak dor Bavithon, At least he enn ve under: ston: he Hourte like a en- Gvenan,
nol ow oraber red reek stouveltt, b <pentt fram personal ex- pertuoce, | was born tp Vir- ttlitin abd while
no Virgine lan ovuld ever eve tiltale the torrlbly Masal drawl uf the Tor Heel. I wae prety ind. Pelde™
Know it, 1 Wiis ever proud of th. as my silly Vorlh- oto Iigshees acrearned, “Tan't he cule whee E
agniku. Tien one day, my bas bn the adyortighg witeney where t watked colled mu in aml atld he eentitia’t
pramoie me Chapels Vacant; SAE’s Censured To Tie Ealturs Althouals 0 wan dlaappabilt od ty Unar ammilil (uemaut of the
membibera of thin oultata for te Wintl Ensembly oropgrain April 3,1 would bo Ole bars far with for a eniarn
to Me dye Of aleevitedam lay tihone Preessil City lot sit MOl rw ploce mfititee allnndanos Nit, wnsenaddorml eeprcition of
al} peagrains Wo anve td credives 00 bikie the tamale dis tie Admedn Odd tof oeleit (ie Minhege iuewemnerhonld a
thal wi rei. myelee an. in tefllypont wfeelalhe tr en we pot, Odharayluc ee ell enn. wing What nv donnhlor
woth ous tid, Jotin F. Callenier BHavidnon Calinoe To Thy Editor: ft hot tenn brought ta cur attention Wal @
partienfor fraternity draditien of ths SAR 14 outmoded, Ove wold Uhink ahet wich a pay. by aim wan ukaged of
ADH 2 wait out liv eo enor adie Ww oa Tavidenn § gootleman. tt oth wrtereemiide Ahat tie RAK S
are wi exctlod stint (agurgire Ubere Can Mek wea plaawuien Thin aeddi seomns ty tornal inher the npinds of tho
‘barnpllnys SAEs ans Mint. there whos ebndert bu tr AVvEAM te-(hile anneal “php poey®! wll) sla ihe ie. podiias alti)
ational Ww Hop nin twoctleas fale, hurah dttlirnar dane Taheuna Karns Muaely Quanns Celkege cause, be said, “We cannot have
our eblems henr Lie kind of nigger tulk you (akk”, thereby witer init} bis own Bwuthern arin, of which he
was soho, 16 1 often am When 1 bear these outlandish ernchecs,, So i wer up in Columblis fell took
& nell course in a class teaching lorcidm:hom in noquire a trae Enlist necunt. f have came fav. by reason
aU this, T repent, put him away fram the miecophone, Tf you could have beard the sereams oF lawahter nad
derision trom a group af us who watehil College Bowl tonight, you wotid tminedisialy senal hits lid to the Enplich
Depart. meal (UH ft Ls not manned by orth Oaralfniaos) and have him set at beest an under- stuntable speech,
When J tried to explain to mw friends tot the poor Kis tonléat help 4. en Ald Judge, fhininelf fram
Sarth Carolina, «mid “Like fell he cantt — he loves tt “Be cuuld change i in a roost, a5 1
ld when Tecan North, but (1 Ls tly ene clube of individumlity, be’. proud of it” Bot Davidson ehould not
ino, I think, Vaylor Adama new York City CORRECTION THE DAVIOSONIAN erred tocl week In aay: tna thal thw conviction
af a freshman would ap: parently end thie reoh ob thetic In Senchenan Worms. The oanvfetlen wae luc une thal
only, With thw and of re quired asarihitns, THE DAVIOSONIAN will cag: olaply repost the vecults al Honne Caart fefada
tre: which ihe vardice fa quil: rn Henar Court scrocy Preehites Orinting thr cesullh even in series Is lsmocwat. Vardicly
al sinaiticant Fewpwlatiswa Caurt crane wil] continue fp be ee pavinal, ba = patttl; Ae cub ont slwuendantt GattaALbe al
ohh fin Alon ey. Ante. And at het we ore byld That ap dr Oy ane he pen OH ee
pT feakhiet a Ftahovie ven, beams Ir, qutreTao i imealoes active, Meus whOtly peemwoail, ec diniws whieh eannud be mmc
(hcurthnend Lapnigs ie (yy Eynte fl Cxemutive of a amual! awry ennflee Alot ome tO tithe on Fiol kad phemnk
come a Rothe Mtintemumew nt eyin ral 4 ioapade feat ls tite aimil be olinvanuton wh hy veya Par linge
ott ~ Chantvml hoe anee ALITY uleoty ROTC uo lhe mt ep tirannl | gat] af mw rate vt otalivenus
lay Wilh the fcun, vela bwin — aecanperd dg. itty] ham migqtllem: “eOtivind punpiqo, Levey Crim zerlline peo Hl rb¥orl-
audby tneldae 4], at pt vcl Mfieok Aoechroniaie atlasare of (hl Tn i Ce Oe wartertne Nhe ayte Holt pie-t
eed gull rin Other plov, A unweela dl Nita Cary Tiekor 70 Waa! ' Davidson Cotlege Fratty Clubs, Senator Sam
Things Ovr Editors Censored: The lesd stary In last week's DAVIDSONIAN, about Dr. Spen- cere comments on compulsory ROTC, should
ftave contained tho information that Spencer was an instruec- tor in the ROTO Department here during World War Also, two
front page storivs in the last month or so about how Wogrees bove applied for next year's freshman che and
how many are probably coming , are nothing but bullfeathers. Only sts Negro applicants have bean accepted go far, 2nd
wo will probably heve the usual two or three Nagrovs in next yoar’s freshman clasa. Tokenism continue? unabaled, despite overzealous
DAVIDSON. IAN reporting. ~~ 6 ee Nee ret Uncle Percival has removed a few of the faculty's warts, it behooves
me to turn to another Mitte campes matter. Once again that annual rite of spring, Greok Week, has come and
gone, leaving the fraternity avstem in full flower. Greek Wook, this year as always. pointed out the depths to which
supposedly intelligent and mature young men can sink in their sea for the eternal Status and Prestige. Mont fraternity pledge
programs lonk like they were charted by 2 blind mule in a snow storm. They emphasize dip. trivia and all-around
guane, aul they pay ip tervice to “constructive projects.” Tho fratornity system manifests its thorougha vine hypocrisy through its organ
of self-government, whiv! — in fraternily terms — meanz non-government, the Inferfralernity Council. One of the main purposes of the
IFC, as we ali saw Inst fall. is to provide a cover for dirty rushing, But by proclaiming s set
of strict regulations and then completely ignoring them, except in the most blatant eases, the IFC allows its members to
dirfy rugh al. WIHT, for all practical purposes. And the IFC extends this general approacit. to regulation of pledge hazing
during Greek Week. A Mst of strinfent prohibitions was sent out to all {ra- termities by bath the IFC ond
the Dean of Studest’s Office, Neurly all the fraternities viniated them. None were punishod. Ovr F © trainer said that
he used the list of prohibited uotlvithes cent oul by the Dean's Office as the baals for his pledge program.
He tried tn in- elude them all, it wasn't as if the IFC kavked ovidonce that hazing was going on.
Aa one hall counselor safid, “If they wanted vuvidence, all they hed to do was ask seme guys to drop
trou.’ Ant the scavenger hunt that was held an the lawa fa front of Chambers and around the library al
9 p.m. was i litthe blatant, too. 1 would have been difficutt for the IFC, administration ar anvhody lo overlook
a mob of blindfolded pledges in the middle of the campus Lhat night. Tho prasident of the IFC personally asked
all the fraternity pledge trainers not lo have scavenger hunts. Then his fraternity did. Oae of the big problems of
fraternities is the power they give to mediocrity. Those students who can't or won't co anything else on campus throw
themselves wholeheortedly into iraternity activities. "hey ure the most myopic and conservative members, but take the lorgest part in whal
the fraternity is. chong, ad ? " Senator Sam J. Ervin was the biggest flop to hil this campus since
the college Invested all its endow- ment in Confederate war bonds, How ony member of the United States Senate could
give such a pitiful speech was omming to me, but that muy be my own naivete, | dent know very
INaHyY Yenritern. The fact that the old windbag is on the Senate Arined Servicoa Committee is enough ty mike a
revo- lutlonint out of anyone. th wann‘t that he exhorted uz al fenet five mes to “keep our powder dry
ond trust in the Lord," with trust tn the Lord being clearly secondary, or thal he playort the old “better
dead than Red" gnng elpit. differont waya. Nor when be saitt Unere was no point in negotlat- tg with the
Rite tae, woe me had negatiated with a 4 Thytey gheeo World War I an 1 hadn't yiven Jo vel
yway and they War was the breaking point when We sald that the Udited Slates ovver starts wars and It
Je impossitie thal we should over bogin a nuclear war. Nov was if whon he sald be would sather see
an ABM go uff aceldéntolly in some ucban area than nol Tovey one aroun when we aceded it Nu. Jt
won thove poems that did it. Then it was coully hosd to belleve he was a member of the Senate.
Senntar Orvin waa anparontly far aiore articu- late nnd cogont diving Gir Mindhoon with facully and atuclenta, and be has
done seme good things in the Sonale, portioulariy jn regard tw wiretapping and Civil Bat In bls apoorh he aclod
ke a senile old ma.
