Che Davidsonian November 7, 1969 Page Three

Spencer’s Commissions Report recommend sweeping reforms.

By BOB DUNHAM
Editor-in-Chief

The long-awaited Spencer Commission reports make their public appearance this week in THE DAVIDSONIAN. They will be published soon in
their complete form. The paper, due to limitations of space, can offer only abridgements. The abridgements that have been made
were done so as to offer the full measure of what each commission had to say. In some cases, the
complete text of the reports is given, with partial or complete appendectomies performed on their supplementary appendices. In others, the
text of the reports has been edited by the DAVIDSONIAN's editorial staff with extreme care, so that the meaning of
the report will remain intact. If any minor gaps appear, the publication of the entire reports in the near future
will remedy the situation.

The five commissions worked throughout the 1968-69 school year and, in some cases, into the summer in order to offer
guidelines for the course that Davidson is to take in the coming decade. The commissions were appointed last year following
their inception in the inaugural address of President Samuel R. Spencer. They were selected from nominations of trustees, faculty, and
students, with each group receiving equal status.

In his inaugural address, Spencer listed the five principal areas which Davidson needed most to study and called for the
commissions to exhaust their time and energies to investigate those areas.

The Commission on Coeducation was charged with the study of all feasibilities and alternatives regarding the alteration of Davidson's all-male
status. The Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities was the school's initial effort to find the role which Davidson must play in
its responsibility to the community as well as classes. The Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics was directed to evaluate the Davidson
athletic program in all of its strengths and weaknesses and to make recommendations regarding future athletic endeavors. The Church-Relationship Commission
was asked to investigate the role of Davidson as a church-related college and to determine through their investigations the nature
of the school’s commitment to religion in its governance and other areas. The Social Patterns Commission was formed to consider
the current Davidson social structure, including fraternities, and to make recommendations for any necessary changes.

After nine months of study, the commissions concluded their work and reached their decisions. Copies of the reports were selectively
distributed in the summer months and were presented last weekend to the Board of Trustees. They are currently being considered
by the Academy for Educational Development (AED), which is conducting a comprehensive study of Davidson today. In January and May,
when the Trustees again meet to consider the recommendations of the reports and the AED, the results of the efforts
of the commission members will be made manifest. Until then, they exist as they were written, with all of their
strengths and shortcomings, as one of the most comprehensive studies ever made of the Davidson experience in all its phases.

Coeducation

The Commission on Coeducation has attempted to reach its recommendations by means of continuing dialogue informed from several sources: the
experience of the members of the Commission; the experience of the members of the students, faculty, and administration at Davidson,
communicated by means of questionnaires, open meetings, and guests invited to closed meetings; data from other colleges; visits to other
colleges; visits by representatives from other colleges and other institutions; and interviews with representatives from the Academy for Educational Development.

For several reasons, the Commission believes that Davidson should become coeducational at the earliest appropriate time. First, in times of
crises, wars, and rumors of wars, men and women tend to need each other's company. The need to share lives,
to know one another as people rather than as dates, weekend companions, members of the opposite sex, and the like
is an immediate need intimately related to the educational process. Whether more natural or not is debatable; students, professors, and
administrators seem to think that coeducation is certainly more natural.

Second, one of the responsibilities of the college is its social responsibility, which includes its responsibility to prepare men and
women for the heterosexual vocational and professional worlds in which they will live after their college days are over. Shared
experiences of life, learning, college decision-making, and so forth, seem to be one of the best ways to enable men
and women to work and live together successfully.

The Commission believes that the role of women in American public life is changing rapidly and is likely to become
greater and greater, and it recognizes the advisability of the sexes sharing their histories. This need is especially apparent in
the South.

Third, in order to survive and to maintain the flexibility essential to a healthy college, Davidson needs to become coeducational.
While the choice to become coeducational is not obviously right, the Commission believes that given the present trends towards public
institutions, it is the best course of action.

Extra-Campus Responsibilities

We see the responsibility of this Commission to be to delineate Davidson's role in confronting more directly the Southeast, a...region
which has, in the words of Dr. Spencer, “been plagued for a century by problems of racial discrimination, economic deprivation,
and cultural malnutrition.” Beyond question, Davidson has functioned much as a “sheltered workshop” in the midst of these problems characteristic
of our region. For the sake of Davidson, its students and faculty, its community, and the Southeast, this Commission feels
that we must move more directly into the society in which we exist, and which we seek to serve. We
therefore recommend expanded involvement in three areas: (1) Education for the Disadvantaged, (2) Continuing Education, and (3) more relevant and
realistic relations with our local community.

Education for the Disadvantaged
The first and major thrust in our campaign to serve the southeast region should be an attempt to realign our
student body in such a way as to be a more realistic reflection of the composition of our society. We
feel that Davidson is now a school of white, Protestant, upper and middle classes. It is the opinion of this
commission, however, that this is not the manner in which we may best serve our own students, the region, or
our institution. We must strive to incorporate into the student body, in numbers, more realistic whites and blacks of farm
and working-class backgrounds. Of perhaps primary importance is the recruiting and acceptance of black Americans in numbers which truly reflect
the make-up of the communities in which our students, white and black, will live and work. We feel that it
is our job as a college to provide leadership that the future is even now demanding. One only needs to
observe the events that are taking place around us now to see that this leadership must be black as well
as white. Davidson College has the resources to provide this leadership. To meet the demand, however, we must overcome many
obstacles. The purpose of this section of the report is to explore what these obstacles are and to suggest what
measures must be taken to overcome them.

Recruiting
We have waited for black students to come to us. We have vigorously recruited one or two individuals a year,
and when each year this policy failed to turn up a significant number of applications, this commission feels that one
or two individuals a year is not enough. The college has always denied charges of tokenism and yet has never
had more than six black students in a student body of one thousand. We feel that a goal of at
least a hundred black students is a realistic number for this student body. For any program of this sort to
be meaningful, a sufficient number, described by Dean John Hoy of Wesleyan as “a critical mass,” must be included. To
accomplish this, we should begin a program which would admit at least thirty black students each year. What we have
failed to recognize is that Davidson is simply not well known outside of the “middle class white community” it has
traditionally served. Those Negroes who do know us see us very differently than we see ourselves. One Negro guidance counselor
described us as “a fraternal organization,” a close organization in which blacks were not included. To get these people to
come to us, we are going to have to convince the Negro community that we really mean business!

(1) Black personnel on the admissions staff. Ideally, this should be a trained individual with experience in high school or
college counseling. This person would be expected to serve in this capacity along with his work in admissions and recruiting.
If we are to convince black students that we are seriously committed to racial equality, we must have black personnel
working with us. The first person to contact them on behalf of the school should be a Negro.
(2) Personal contact of some kind with every applicant and with as many potential applicants as possible.
(3) A program for guidance counselors of predominantly Negro urban high schools and black rural high schools. This could be
in the form of an orientation weekend.
(4) A major statement to all high school guidance counselors with whom we have made contact informing them of the
program we have undertaken and soliciting their help.
(5) Use of alumni for recommendations.

The realization of these suggestions will involve considerable personal commitment on the part of the present admissions staff. Our research
has shown these to be the bare minimum necessary to accomplish the desired goal.

Admissions Policy
Because of wide variations in the quality of secondary education in this country, it is inevitable that many applicants we
are seeking will not be competitive with present applicants if current admission standards are used. Experience at other institutions has
shown that this does not mean that the students we seek will not be constructive and competitive members of the
college community after admission. Such standards as the College Board Test are aimed primarily at the members of the middle-class
community and are not really a good measure of the potential of most black students. We must adopt a flexible
policy which will look far beyond such scores in our selection. We must not limit ourselves to grade point averages
and rank in class in the case of these students. We should look over all records and through personal contact
select aggressive, highly motivated young men. We must realize that such young men will not always fit the traditional Davidson
image. However, given the academic background of these students, only these highly motivated, “hungry” young men will make it academically
and socially in an almost totally foreign environment. We do not advocate merely a leniency in terms of policy. We
do not suggest a lowering of standards. We are advocating a new standard, which in many ways is more ambitious
than the old and which, most importantly, is genuinely relevant to the whole range of talents that these students can
bring to this campus. We want these men to be exceptional people, exceptional people with the qualities of leadership that
we will be looking for. Such qualities can only be found and identified through close personal contact. We suggest that
interviews for these students be extensive since this personal contact will necessarily be a major factor in their acceptance. Again,
we stress that these men must be leaders or at least have some capacity for leadership. In order for us
to accept these men who genuinely have these qualities rather than those with whom we merely feel comfortable, it will
be necessary for us to overlook standards of appearance, dress, and overt behavior that are markedly different from our own
but are now very much a part of young America. Quiet young men who look and talk as we do
will not bring anything new to this campus. Energetic young men, different young men, will bring a whole new spirit.

Curriculum and Faculty
With regard to curriculum, we are again faced with the problem of deficiency in secondary education. Many of these students
will not have the verbal and mathematical skills necessary for satisfactory work at this college. Many will, but those who
do not must be provided an opportunity to overcome their handicaps. We suggest a summer program of basic remedial work
for those who have had inadequate preparation, followed by similar work in the freshman year. We also suggest that all
students be given the option of a reduced course load and that no limit be placed on the number of
years the student spends in obtaining his degree. It is very important that these students avoid institutions and towards coeducational
institutions, the single-sex college is unlikely to continue to attract the most able students. The Commission sees a danger in
Davidson's remaining an all-men’s college merely because it has always been an all-men’s college. As President Edwin D. Etherington of
Wesleyan University said, “a college anxious to keep its place without being so place-bound will find itself a place worth
keeping. It should, instead, take the affirmative view that it has a critical interest in the activities and the prospects
of the whole community” (Wesleyan University Bulletin, Vol. LXII, September 1968, p. 42).

To increase the attractiveness of Davidson as an educational institution, to make possible the continued selection of highly qualified students,
to enhance present programs, and to develop and populate new programs, the Commission believes Davidson should become coeducational. Fourth, while
the effects of women in the classroom and on the campus are not agreed upon by all concerned to describe
them, the Commission believes that women offer distinctive and necessary points of view, tend to be vitally interested in their
work and to play the learning game more seriously than many men do, that they contribute to the intellectual life
of the campus, that they nourish liberal arts emphases, and that they produce a healthy emotional climate, thus ameliorating some
problems among the men.

In the course of its deliberations, the Commission has not been able to locate and describe any compelling reason for
Davidson’s remaining an all-men’s college. Frequently it has heard that American education needs to offer alternatives, and a single-sex college
is indeed an alternative to the overwhelming majority of coeducational colleges. However, why Davidson should offer such an alternative is
uncertain, unless one argues that because it always has, it should continue to do so. With regard to the reason
offered above for Davidson’s remaining an all-men’s college, the Commission has examined repeatedly the possibility that because Davidson has been
a single-sex college it should remain one. It is unconvinced that the possibility has sufficient value for Davidson, for church-related
education, for Southern education, or for American education, for them to recommend it. With the single exception of the Air
Force Academy, no senior college founded in this century has been a single-sex college. Furthermore, according to the “World Almanac,”
in the spring of 1967, among the some 1200 senior colleges (See Coeducation, Page 5).
