FROM THE BENCH
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

The Windy City

During the trip to Chicago last weekend, our loss to the University of Iowa wasn’t the only thing that went wrong. There were a good many insignificant mistakes which led up to the conclusion Saturday night. The Thursday before we left, Mike O'Neill received a letter from Irish Echo magazine, which could possibly be the exiled voice of the IRA (Irish Revolutionary Army) in America. Anyway, it seems that the magazine picks an athlete of the month for each issue, so they decided that O’Neill was a good Irish name and wanted to know what part of Ireland his forefathers were from. This was fine in that O’Neill’s family is Irish, but the next day Mike Maloy received the same inquiry. I know that Maloy sounds Irish, but let’s not be absurd.

We left on Friday and flew into Chicago’s O’Hare Field. For those of you who have never had the pleasure of flying into that airport, it’s one of the few places I know of where it takes longer to taxi to the terminal building than it does to fly to Charlotte. They even have road signs on the approaches to the runways to keep the jets from hitting each other on the ground. Once safely in the terminal building, we rented several cars and headed for Chicago Stadium for our afternoon practice. I had the fortune of getting in a car with Tony Orsbon at the wheel and Fox DeMoisey navigating. We were lost inside of 30 minutes, but at least we saw most of the city. Also, we were greeted by such signs as “Mayor Daley welcomes you to the great city of Chicago,” and “Happy Valentine's Day—America, The Chicago Police Department.” At least they’re advertising.

After our sightseeing tour, we found the Stadium with the help of directions from one of Chicago's finest. Whenever we work out on a large coliseum-type floor which only has two baskets, Lefty has eight members of the team that play shooting at both baskets. The remainder of the team, the skins, usually go off to one side of the court and run through the opposing team’s offense. Besides this, we also run up and down the steps of the auditorium dribbling a ball or just trying to look busy until we’re needed. Unfortunately, in Chicago, we could only find four balls, and the starters used these. One of the managers went out and borrowed a half-inflated rubber ball from the Boy’s Club across the street and gave it to the skins. We couldn’t dribble, but we had a good time passing it around.

We stayed at Lake Shore Holiday Inn which overlooks frozen Lake Michigan. With its 33 floors and revolving restaurant, the building is really nice. The four elevators used to go upstairs are the fastest machines I have ever seen. One time I wanted to get off on the third floor, but before I could push a button, we were at six and rising. Too bad our offense didn’t run as well that night.

The programs for Saturday night’s games read “The University of Iowa vs. Davidson University.” A roster of the players inside had several names spelled wrong and other mistakes on heights, weights, and such, but the biggest error appeared where Lefty’s name was supposed to be. The ill-favored paper booklet had the Head Davidson basketball coach’s name listed as Harv Schmidt. Somebody really messed up there. Harv Schmidt sounds like a beer sign or something. Anyway, old Harv was not very happy after the game and he had every right not to be. We shot 28% and lost by 15 points. Before the game, a resident of Chicago told me the only thing he knew about Davidson was that the college had a good basketball team. I wonder what he thinks now.

LEWIS MILLS
A Blend Of Color, Class
Tuesday Night Is Mills Night
By BOB DUNHAM
Sports Editor

It would indeed be an understatement to label Lewis Mills as “colorful.” Lefty Driesell is colorful. Lou Carnesecca is colorful. But Lewis Mills is more than colorful. He is color with a bit of showmanship added in. He is characterized by an ability to please a crowd. A number of students will attend next week's Davidson-Richmond game in Johnston Gym just to watch Mills go through his routine. The flamboyant coach, who beat out Driesell for Southern Conference Coach of the Year last season, has long kept Davidson students in laughter with his gestures and words to the crowd. Last season's game in Johnston Gym saw Mills turn in disbelief from a referee's call, look into the student section and ask, “Did you see that one?” Mills takes a bit more ribbing from Wildcat supporters than do most of the coaches who frequent the local gym, but Mills always takes the ribbing a bit better than the rest, too. There is always a smile or a wave to the crowd. When Mills’ Spiders come to Davidson Tuesday night, they will bring a disappointing record with them. But one can bet that Lewis Mills will be just as crowd-pleasing as ever, for Mills has that added class which complements the color.

The Davidsonian
Road-Weary ‘Cats
February 7, 1969
Page Five

Return To Johnston Gym And GW
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Writer

Nearly everything has been tried this year, but still the game that most Southern Conference teams seem to be playing is catch—catch Davidson, that is. George Washington's “new-look” Colonials will make another try this Saturday afternoon when they invade Johnston Gymnasium with a lot of Tallent and a little bit of miracle making. The new look that the Colonials are sporting is a winning record, the first in ten years for George Washington. And the winning record, 10-7 so far this season and good enough for third in the conference, is the result of miracle-worker Wayne Dobbs. GW's head coach, Dobbs, in just his second year at GW, has transformed a team that two years ago wasn't good enough to make the conference tournament into the highest-scoring team in the Southern with an 85.8 average. The Colonials’ scoring success is due largely to a couple of Tallents, namely Bob and Mike. Bob, a senior transfer from Kentucky, is leading the conference with a 30.2 average while little brother Mike is hitting at a 16.1 clip. A hot hand at the free throw line has aided the Colonial cause. George Washington presently is in the national top ten in foul shooting with a conversion record of 75 percent. Bob Tallent leads the way with an 88.3 percent record at the charity stripe. Backing up the Tallents is 6-7 Bill Knorr, averaging 11.9 rebounds a game, third in the conference. Knorr injured his knee in the last Davidson-George Washington contest, but has since then recovered. In that last game, Davidson began shakily and act.

Cannon And Watts Lead In IMAC Play
By BILL BERRY
Asst. Sports Editor

Freshman intramural basketball reached the midpoint of its season this week with three teams undefeated through Tuesday's games. Cannon-3 has the best record thus far, 4-0, with victories over Watts-4, East-2, Cannon-1, and East-4. Barden Cooke, Chuck Sparks, and Stephen Battle starred in Tuesday's 47-43 victory.Over East-4 as they scored 12, 13, and 12 points respectively. Sparks has handled the rebounding load. Watts-3, one of the flashiest teams in the freshman league, has easy victories over East-3, Cannon-4, and Wildkittens Ride Minkin To Duke Comeback Win.

Under the coaching of an assistant in the admissions office, the Davidson freshmen basketball team put together one of its finest performances Monday and began playing the kind of ball that makes any coach happy. Eric Minkin, the freshman 67 center, played what admissions assistant Jimmy Hyder called “as good an all-around game as he has played this year” to spark the Wildkittens to their 92-82 win over Duke's freshman squad. He scored a game-high 28 points while being guarded by the Blue Devil's prized center, Don Blackman. A resident of Philadelphia where he attended Germantown Academy, Minkin was quick to praise his teammates for their jobs. He especially noted Frank Clark, whom he said kept Davidson in the ball game in the first half. Early in that first period Duke held a 10-point margin, but, behind Minkin, Clark, and Brian Adrian, the Wildkittens tore the lead apart and left the floor at intermission holding a five-point edge. Hyder, who substituted simply because all the coaches were out of town, was quite pleased with the performance. “I thought they showed some great hustle out there,” he said.

East-1 to its credit. Watts-3 is led by two excellent guards, Grier Newlin and Eddie Vint. Newlin poured in 18 points in the 46-39 win over East-1. Bill Colvin has been the big man on the boards for Watts-3. The other undefeated team is Cannon-2 at 3-0, with victories over Cannon-East basements, East-3, and Cannon-4. Woody Montgomery led the scoring in Tuesday's 55-45 win over Cannon-4 with 13 points. Close behind were Blair Abee with 10 and Hal Mapes with 9. All the other teams in the league have lost at least two games. One of the best of these teams is East-2, featuring 6-6 Frank Soos and Rich Waino, who along with playmaker Duff Bruce have done most of the scoring. East-3 has played very well at times, but has not been consistent enough to win more than half its games. They played one of their best games Tuesday night as they whipped Cannon-East basements, 70-48, and placed five men in double figures. Steve Wilhelm scored 18, Don Caterson 15, Ray Swetenburg 12, Tim Winter 13, and Alex Gordon 10. Cannon-1 is led by Rick Van de Water, David Faison, Jim Roy, and Steve Salyer. Roy scored 17 against East-2 Tuesday as Cannon-1 achieved its first victory, 57-46. John Calhoun has been the most consistent scorer for East-1. He scored 14 in Tuesday's 46-39 loss to the strong Watts-3 team. Calhoun was followed by Whit Ayres with 13 and Trip Adams with 12.

Conference Gives Approval To NIT Tournament Play

If a Southern Conference national championship team is defeated in the Southern Conference basketball tournament next month, it will be eligible for competition in the National Invitational Tournament in New York City, a conference spokesman said this week. In 1964 both the conference and the Davidson Faculty Athletic Committee squelched Davidson's acceptance of an NIT bid, after the Wildcats were upset in the conference tournament. Dallas Shirley, director of the conference assignment and news bureau, told THE DAVIDSONIAN from his Richmond office that any team receiving an NIT bid after the conference tournament would, under conference rules, be eligible to accept it. The team winning the tournament will be ineligible for the NIT, however, because that team will move on from the conference tournament into the NCAA playoffs, moving toward the national championship. Dean Frontis Johnston, chairman of the athletic committee, said this week that such a decision is based on the individual situation, and no policy of acceptance or rejection of an NIT bid has ever been formulated.

SHERRILL'S JEWELRY
Watch Repairs
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.

VALENTINE CANDIES
95¢ to $6.95
Russell Stover Candies
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
DAVIDSON, N. C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The Cellar
OPEN WEEKDAYS — 4:30 - 11:45
SUNDAYS — 2:30 - 11:45
OPEN NIGHTLY
Bands — Wed., Fri., Sat., Sun.
often imitated never duplicated
300 E. Morehead
Charlotte

BASS CLEANERS
Behind Contes Soda Shop
Lowest Rates In Town!
24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request
MAIN ST.
Closed All Day Wednesday
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

WESTERN AUTO
Main St.
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496

HUNTERSVILLE-FORD
SALES AND SERVICE
875-6547

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Your roommate can't sleep in the dark? Think it over, over coffee.
The Think Drink.
For your own Think Drink Mug, send $1 and your name and address to: Think Drink Mug, Dept. N, P.O. Box 559, New York, N.Y. 10046. The International Coffee Organization.

WANTED
KITCHEN HELP
$2.25 per hr.
Apply
HEREFORD BARN RESTAURANT
4320 Interstate 85 N.
Phone 596-0854
Closed Sunday

Mary Mac’s Dress Shop
Gifts for Valentine’s Day
Rack of dresses 1/2 price
American Tourister Luggage
Queen Casual Spring Sportswear

15 Pieces Chicken
1 Qt. Potatoes
1 Pt. Gravy
18 Rolls
Food For Saturday Night Supper
AFTER THE BASKETBALL GAME
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken.
503 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, N. C.

MAIL ORDERS ONLY!
National Attractions Presents
2 BROADWAY SHOWS
OVENS AUDITORIUM
FEBRUARY 12-13-14 & 2 PERFORMANCES SATURDAY FEB. 15
STARRING JOE CUSANELLI
EVENINGS 8:00 p.m. Ticket Prices $7.50, $6.50, $5.20, $4.20
FEB. 19 MATINEE 2:30 p.m. Ticket Prices $6.00, $5.00, $4.00, $2.00
FEBRUARY 17 TO 22 WITH 8 PERFORMANCES
STARRING JOSE FERRER
EVENINGS 8:00 p.m. Ticket Prices $6.50, $5.50, $4.50, $3.50
FEB. 19 MATINEE 2:30 p.m. Ticket Prices $6.00, $5.00, $4.00, $2.00
MATINEE FEBRUARY 22, 2:30 p.m. Ticket Prices $7.00, $6.00, $5.00, $4.00
APRIL 14-15-16-17-18 & 6 PERFORMANCES
STARRING ELAINE STRITCH
EVENINGS 8:00 p.m. Ticket Prices $6.50, $5.50, $4.50, $3.50
APRIL 18-19 EVENINGS 8:00 p.m. Ticket Prices $8.50, $7.50, $6.50, $5.50
MATINEE APRIL 16 2:30 p.m. Ticket Prices $6.00, $5.00, $4.00, $3.00
MATINEE APRIL 19 2:30 p.m. Ticket Prices $7.00, $6.00, $5.00, $4.00
Mail Orders, send self-addressed stamped envelope to Ovens Auditorium, 2700 E. Independence Blvd. Charlotte, N.C. 28205. Checks payable to National Attractions, Inc.