Negro Course Offered

A course on “The Negro in America” for public school teachers is being taught by professors from two colleges and four academic areas at Davidson this fall. The unusual course, an outgrowth of the college's summertime Liberal Arts Program for Teachers, is being team-taught by two Davidson professors and two from Johnson C. Smith University. Dr. William B. Hight, Davidson director of student counseling, is the director of the program.

The new Davidson men are Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of the college and professor of history, and Dr. Joseph T. Drake, chairman of the sociology department. Johnson C. Smith will send Dr. Mack L. Davidson Jr., of the economics department, and Dr. Elsie E. Woodard of the English department. One lecture will be given by Dr. Lionel Newsome, president of JCSU. The course is being supported by Davidson College and by the N. C. Department of Public Instruction.

“This is another of our attempts to meet the needs of the public schools in this area,” Hight commented. Hight said that the course is an outgrowth of one taught this summer by Dr. Drake in the Liberal Arts Program for Teachers, entitled “Black-White Relations in the United States,” which received “enthusiastic response from its participants.”

A blend of the Lightfoot-Hardin type of fare next, the Hungry I Coffeehouse, Rings ‘n Things makes a stop at Davidson. The electric folk sound will be featured as the bill of the week at Rings ‘n Things, with two shows nightly, beginning at 8 p.m. Tuesday. The coffeehouse will run through Saturday evening under the co-direction of juniors Rob Krehbiel and Glenn Mauney.

Eleven International Students Begin Studying In Davidson Environment

Joining the large freshman class as newcomers to the Davidson community are 11 international students, and the number could possibly grow to 12. Ten students have arrived on campus, from as far away as Japan and as near as Jamaica. One student, Laurent Bessou, of Montpellier, France, will arrive late due to examinations at his home university. In addition, according to Dr. John Kelton, foreign student adviser, there may be one more scholar named in the next few weeks.

One student, Jacques Gilbert of Montpellier, is the first married student to come to Davidson as an international student. Gilbert is an amateur parachutist. Jan William Bol, of Zeist, Netherlands, is a hockey enthusiast and plans to continue his study of economics on his return to his homeland.

Officers, Instructors, Physician

Two new faculty members, a new college physician, and four new staff members for the ROTC department have taken positions with Davidson for the 1969-1970 school year. Frederick H. Gaige, who has been completing PhD requirements at the University of Pennsylvania, will be in charge of establishing a South Asian studies program for the college.

Up ’N’ Coming

Saturday, September 27
7:30 p.m. Football Greenville, S.C.
Davidson vs. Furman
Evening Freshman mixer Morrison Room
Converse College
8:30 p.m. Movie Morrison Room
“The Ambushers”

Monday, September 29
11:30 p.m. Convocation Love Auditorium
Dr. Samuel Proctor, speaker
1 p.m. Luncheon Chambers Dining Hall
8 p.m. Fine Film Love Auditorium
“Jules and Jim”

Tuesday, September 30
7 p.m. Hungry I Morrison Room
“Rings and Things”

Wednesday, October 1
3 p.m. Soccer Durham
Davidson vs. Duke
7 p.m. Hungry I Morrison Room

Thursday, October 2
7 p.m. Hungry I Morrison Room

Arbuckle Heads Alumni Activities

Howard B. Arbuckle III, an administrative assistant at Springs Mills in Lancaster, S.C., and son of a Charlotte judge, became director of alumni activities for Davidson College on Sept. 8. Arbuckle replaced William B. Armstrong, who will be assistant to the headmaster at St. Catherine's School in Richmond, Va. In his new post, Armstrong will be in charge of development, alumni activities, fund-raising, and publications at St. Catherine's.

“Bill Armstrong has done an excellent job for Davidson,” said President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., “and we are sorry to lose him.”

Arbuckle was chairman of the Honor Court at Davidson during 1963-64, his senior year. During his college career, he was also a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, Scabbard and Blade ROTC honorary, and Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership fraternity.

Associate Editors:
GEORGE ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY
DANNY WHITE

Managing Editors:
JOHN McLEAN
ED SHOAF

Sports Editor:
RUSS MERRITT

Assistant Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
JOHN FINE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
FRED WILSON

Staff Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
DON PARMAN
M.A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
BILL LYLE
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Asst. Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Franklin Anderson, Steve Roady, Glenn Mauney.

Gaige received a BA degree in history from Oberlin in 1959 and also studied at the London School of Economics during 1957-58. He holds an MAT from Brown University.

W. Herbert Jackson Jr. has been given a two-year appointment as instructor of fine arts. Jackson, a 1967 graduate of Davidson, has been studying at UNC-Chapel Hill. He has had a dozen one-man art shows and is known on campus for his murals in the Union Cafeteria and the ATO house.

Dr. William A. Davis Jr., who has been a general practitioner in Cornelius and Davidson, will succeed Dr. James B. Woods Jr. as college physician. Davis graduated from Davidson in 1950, attended the Duke University School of Medicine, and interned at Charlotte Memorial Hospital.

Three staff members have joined the ROTC Department after tours of duty in Vietnam. They are Maj. Thomas Dixon, MS IV instructor and adjutant; SGM Jerome D. Pearce, assistant MS IV instructor; and SFC Charles O. Jaap IV, assistant MS III instructor. Maj. Dixon is a native of Sparta, Ga., and a graduate of Tuskegee Institute. The first Negro to serve in the ROTC Department at Davidson, he has served two...years in Vietnam where he won several medals. He is married and has three daughters. Here at SFC Jaap attended the University of South Carolina before going to Vietnam. During his two years in Vietnam, he won several awards. He is married and has four sons. Capt. Harry Blalock has also been assigned to Davidson, coming from Fort Gordon, Ga. He is a native of Waycross, Ga., and attended North Georgia College. In 1966 and 1967, he served in Vietnam with the military police. Recently departed for Vietnam from Davidson are Maj. Donald Johns, SGM Thomas Fagan, SFC Winzlo Hannah, and SFC Billy Hunter.

Major Fluoride To Be Put In Water

The town of Davidson is scheduled to begin fluoridation of town drinking water next week, joining two other towns in Mecklenburg County who have made that move in recent years. The town has been moving toward an Oct. 1 date for the fluoridation process, which has been approved by commissioners and health representatives. Several meetings have been held throughout the summer to pave the way for the beginning of fluoridation, which has long been cited as a significant factor in the reduction of tooth decay. Charlotte and Pineville, as users of the treatment in the county, Davidson joins the chemical process. Representatives from J. H. Pease, engineers for the Davidson water system, said that the town’s facility for putting fluoride in the water meets the requirements established by the State board of health.

30 Students Study Here For Project Opportunity

Davidson opened its doors this summer to some 30 high school students participating in Charlotte's Project Opportunity to give them a first-hand chance to explore college life. The students spent nearly a month at the college in June and July, living in dormitories and attending classes, taught mainly by summer school teachers from Charlotte. Project Opportunity in Charlotte is sponsored by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and the Southern Regional Office of the College Entrance Examination Board. The program identifies about 600 seventh graders in the South each year with unusual academic potential in hopes of providing on an experimental basis opportunities for education beyond high school for talented people in deprived areas of the South. The students attending this summer were all rising juniors at Metropolitan High School in Charlotte, formerly Second Ward High School. They had been selected for the project in 1965. Courses were offered in physiology, chemistry, mathematics, and English, and extra-curricular events were sponsored as well. Other classes were offered in art, music, drama, dance, swimming, and other activities. Three Davidson students, junior Jerry Dean, sophomore Bobby Allen, and senior Calvin Murphy, served as counselors for the group, which was directed by Miss Joyce Sparks, counselor for the Project Opportunity office in Charlotte.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Davidson, N. C.
Hours: 9 a.m. - 8 p.m.
Sunday 10 - 11 a.m.

Expand The College Community

William Windham has left for the Armed Forces Staff College at Norfolk, Va. Col. Frederick Outlaw, former Professor of Military Science (PMS), has retired from active duty and is now athletic business manager and director of summer athletic programs for Davidson. The new PMS is Col. Virgil Foster Jr. who was formerly stationed at Ent Air Force Base, Colo. Martin Grey, of Surrey, England, a good athlete, will use his American study to further his education in his field of American history. Norihiko Iio, of Yamato Koriyama, Japan, is a student of economics and plans to continue his study at Kansei Gakuin University on his return to Japan.

Stipend Honors Beaty

The $19,500 won by Davidson College's GE College Bowl team last spring will be used to support a scholarship at Davidson in honor of the late Ernest A. Beaty, professor of Latin and German. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced the establishment of the fund at commencement in June and said that donations from individual contributors have brought the total amount to $20,000. In a letter to President Spencer, Robert Bryan, captain of the College Bowl team, said that the team decided to honor Professor Beaty as “a man who truly exemplifies the best of the Davidson tradition.” A native of Lancaster, S.C., Beaty taught for most of his professional career at Davidson until his retirement in 1966, a year before his death.

Masafumi Ishida, from Hiroshima, will study American literature in preparation for a career of teaching English. Ishida is interested in basketball. Seymour Martin, from Jamaica, will teach educational and social psychology on return and graduation. He displays a proficiency in table tennis and football. Gerhard Prott, of Warburg, Germany, spent two years as a border guard on the East German border, and will return to the University of Marburg after he finishes work at Davidson. Reinhard Schaechter, of Soest, Germany, is taller than any of the Davidson basketball players at 6-8, but lists baseball and journalism as his major interests. Gisli Sigurdsson, of Reykjavik, Iceland, is studying medicine at the University of Iceland and hopes to specialize in surgery when he returns from the United States. Alan Wheen, of Coff's Harbor, Australia, a student of law and a boxing enthusiast, comes to Davidson on a scholarship provided for him by Rotary International.

In Davidson come to us for school supplies—imp heat coils—trash cans—extension cords—bulletin board covers—gifts, etc. etc.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.
OPEN 9-8

The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY
NEW AND USED FURNITURE
TO MAKE YOUR ROOM MORE COMFORTABLE SEE
HOWARD & BRAWLEY FURNITURE COMPANY

THE RED HANGER
Invites You To Its:
GRAND OPENING
NAME BRANDS
WE CARRY THESE FAMOUS NAME BRANDS
Bates Shoes
Bornstein Suits & Oritsky Slacks
Creighton Shirts
Burlington Socks
Hanes Underwear
Paris Leathergoods
Coxman Sweaters
English Squire Jackets & Raincoats
Store Hours To Be 9 a.m. ‘Til 5:30 p.m. (Closed Wed. p.m.)
The Red Hanger
Friday, Sept. 26 - Noon ‘Til 7 p.m.
Saturday, Sept. 27 - 9 a.m. ‘Til 5:30 p.m.
For Your Men’s Clothing Needs
FREE PRIZES
Come In For Refreshments and Register For Free Prizes
Proprietors: “Butch” Doster and “Eddie” Beam
115 N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.