Page Four February 21, 1969 The Davidsonian

Possible Departure Of Lefty Rumored

Rumors concerning the departure of Lefty Driesell, Davidson’s head basketball coach, continue to spread despite the refusal by Driesell himself to verify his departure. According to usually accurate sources, at least three large universities, all in the Atlantic Coast Conference, have shown great interest in Driesell and have offered him the position of head basketball coach for next season.

Reportedly, the first school to approach the Wildcat coach was Clemson, which has already given indications that present head coach Bobby Roberts will be kicked upstairs in the athletic department after a very dismal record this year. However, by all indications, Driesell has refused to take the coaching job at that school.

Maryland apparently next contacted Driesell, and as yet there seems to be no answer to the Terps from Lefty. Maryland, although not fairing well this year in the ACC standings, is in a lucrative position near the vast wealth of high school basketball talent in Washington, D.C. It is interesting to note that if Driesell were to coach at Maryland, his first star would be center Will Hetzel, the younger brother of Fred Hetzel, Driesell’s first All-American at Davidson.

According to latest reports from several newspapers, the third ACC university to contact Driesell is Duke, where Driesell played his collegiate basketball. As reported recently in the Charlotte Observer, Duke's present head coach, Vic Bubas, has announced that this will be his last year as Duke's basketball mentor. Bubas, one of the nation’s most successful collegiate coaches, will reportedly become Vice President of Student Affairs at Duke.

As Davidson's head coach since 1960, when he left Newport News, Va., High School, Driesell has won 170 games while losing only 70. His only losing season came in his first year when the Wildcats went 9-14. Six of Driesell’s last seven teams have won 20 games or more, while several have been nationally rated. He has turned out two All-Americans, Hetzel and Dick Snyder, and possibly a third in Mike Maloy.

WILLIAMS PRACTICES MOVES
Freshman star prepares for match. (Staff Photo by Weems)

Unique Ronnie Williams Sparks "Cat Grapplers
By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

A student and a teacher, a philosopher and a comedian, but most of all a wrestler, Ronnie Williams is unique to Davidson College. Williams’ uniqueness is not that he is the first Negro to ever don Wildcat wrestling sweats, but that he has withstood pressures and problems that would have long ago made quitters of most men.

“I still remember the Duke match this year,” one fellow grappler said. “The students there started out on Ronnie even before the match started, and when his turn to wrestle came, they were giving him all kinds of hell. Then Ronnie went out and whipped the Duke wrestler all over the mat. Boy, did that take guts.”

The Duke match was not an isolated incident, either. At VMI, for example, the Keydets started on Williams early, only to see him soundly defeat one of their better wrestlers. “Ronnie has gone through a lot more than a lot of people realize,” said Davidson wrestling coach Charlie Parker. “And with his courage and pride, he never does tuck his tail between his legs and hide, but is always holding his head high.”

As a wrestler, Williams has done a commendable job. With just one and a half year’s experience, Williams won a starting berth this season as a freshman in the 167- and 160-pound classes, and has compiled one of the best records on the team by winning five, tying one, and losing only three. Williams didn’t wrestle until his family moved to Fayetteville from New York in his junior year of high school. “I didn’t do real well then, since I had only had experience on a mat as a tumbler for the gymnastics team,” Williams laughingly recalls. Then during his senior year he compiled a 6-1 record before leaving the team to help with family finances.

“Ronnie has a great deal of natural ability in wrestling,” Parker said. “He is by far my best freshman wrestler and is one of the better men on the team. Ronnie's biggest problem seems to be that he still uses his strength more than his head. With a little more experience and practice he'll become a fine wrestler,” Parker concluded.

Williams completely agrees with his coach's criticism. “I'd say my main trouble is that whenever I get on top of my opponent, I don't know just what to do with him,” he chuckles. Williams jokingly refers to himself as the “Great Black Hope of the Davidson Wrestling Team.” “I really hope to do everything I can in

Sporttopics

Davidson's baseball team will open its 29-game schedule on March 22 against Carolinas Conference member Pfeiffer College. The Wildcats will be hoping to get revenge for two setbacks that they were handed by Pfeiffer last season when the Davidson team won only three games. Seventeen conference games and two encounters with ACC opponents are also on the schedule, which finds the Wildcats playing 17 home games.

According to official sports information reports, Lefty Driesell is just one victory away from becoming the winningest coach in Davidson basketball history. With the Duke victory, Driesell tied Norman Shepard’s 170 wins as a Wildcat head mentor. However, Driesell has coached from 1960-1969 while Shepard coached from 1937-1949. Driesell has lost only 70 contests in his collegiate coaching career.

A Charlotte bred basketball star that last year led West Charlotte High to a near state championship returns tomorrow afternoon cast in the villain’s role. Virginia Tech freshman star Charke Lipscomb, averaging around 15 points a game for one of the two teams that has beaten the Davidson freshmen this year, returns with his teammates to try to thwart any Wildkitten desires for revenge. Lipscomb, who scored 16 in Tech's 10-point win over the Wildkittens four weeks ago in Blacksburg, Va., has been one of the leading scorers for the Baby Gobblers all year.

Ron Stelzer continues as the most accurate shooter from the field for the Wildcats, while Jerry Kroll has become the most accurate at the foul line. In statistics released just before the Duke contest, Stelzer was hitting his field goal attempts at a fantastic 76.1 percentage rate while Kroll had converted 85 percent of his free throws.

Richmond's flamboyant head coach Lewis Mills made the quote of the week the other day when a sportswriter asked him about the Southern Conference Tournament. “The tournament is a very unfair way to determine a conference champion. If Davidson were to be beaten it would be a great injustice. But whether it's fair or not, you can be sure that I'll be trying to bring that injustice about.”the next four years to help this team,” he promised. “I have all the respect in the world for Coach Parker,” Williams commented. “He’s a great coach, as anyone who knows anything about wrestling can tell you.”

“The rest of the guys on the team are great too. Many of my closest friends wrestle with me on the team. I think our team unity helps a lot.” Williams views the racial prejudice he has seen philosophically. “Sometimes it’s really bad and it hurts, but you don't accomplish anything by running away from it. I just hope that I never become apathetic towards it.”

Viewing the wrestling team, Williams sees the chance for a big improvement over the 3-6 record that grapplers have obtained so far this year. “We have only two seniors on the squad, and several of us are green freshmen like myself,” he said. “Besides, Coach Parker is doing a good job recruiting. We have nowhere to go but up.”

The two seniors on the team are captain Kerry Keith, the Wildcats’ heavyweight entry, and Dean Cromartie, who has the best record on the team with only one loss. “The team has really done a good job so far this year,” Parker commented. “I didn't think that we'd win more than two matches. If we get the boys that I'm trying to recruit now for next year, we'll have a good team.” And if the wrestlers get many more students like Ronnie Williams, Davidson may have a great team.

Trainer, Myer

TRACS - RUSS MERRITT

A Worn-Out Net Or A Bucket Of Tears

This, friends, is the Southern Conference tournament. The appearance of such basketball all-time greats as Hot Rod Hundley, Jerry West, Rod Thorn, Frank Selvy, Fred Hetzel, and Dick Snyder. The re-appearance of past conference stars like Gary McPherson, Warren Mitchell, Lewis Mills, and Selvy as head coaches. This is the Southern Conference Tournament.

A long, long season of blood and sweat, hopes and fears, good and bad breaks, wins and losses, predictions and upsets, all tried and tested on one grueling weekend. This is the Southern Conference Tournament.

A history of upsets, from Davidson’s losses in 1964 and 1965 to VMI and West Virginia to George Washington’s surprise championship in 1954 and VMI's title in 1964. This is the Southern Conference Tournament.

The preparation of many days and weeks for the tourney, the guessing and second guessing, the practicing, conditioning, and griping of one whole year. The intense rivalries that develop over a year, the affections and the hates, the friends and foes, all meeting on one small floor. This is the Southern Conference tournament.

Names like Deardorff, Spadafore, Petcavich, and Kasprzak dot the official program with names like Smith, West, Burton, Evans, and Armstrong. Pictures of teams, with big men and small, along with pictures of cheerleaders, coaches, officials, presidents, and others crowd out much information in the programs. This is the Southern Conference tournament.

Located in the Charlotte Coliseum for the sixth straight year, drawing hundreds of thousands of screaming fans, some yelling “Go Cats” or “Tear ‘Em Up Keydets” or “Rip ‘Em Bucs,” some hollering obscenities and insults in the direction of the officials, the rival teams, and sometimes opposing fans. Once housed in the small Richmond Arena and the partial Mountaineer Fieldhouse. This is the Southern Conference tournament.

The thrills, the glory, the joy, and the cheers for winning, along with the fears, the disgrace, the sorrow, and the boos for losing. Hero one night and goat the next, one moment a genius and the next a bumbling fool. The “wait until next year” statements, the “we should have won it” quotes, the “it’s been a great year” comments from coaches hiding tears of either elation or sorrow. This is the Southern Conference tournament.

Three grueling nights of contact, exertion, bruises, exhaustion, and injuries to prove just who is the best. Six hours of basketball with little rest, six hours of running, jumping, fighting, and throwing to establish dominance after a year of unimportant regular season games. Just six hours to continue or terminate a season or a collegiate basketball career. This is the Southern Conference basketball tournament.

The last second shots, good and bad, carrying with them the whole of one basketball season. The high scorers and the big rebounders, getting the headlines while the “little man” does the lion’s share of the work. This is the Southern Conference tournament.

The winners’ prize, a trophy containing a cut-up, worn-out net. The losers’ award, broken hopes and a bucketful of tears. This is the Southern Conference tournament.

The criticisms following the tournament about the tournament, the possible solutions, the probable results, and, finally, the continuance of the same method of determining the conference’s representative to the NCAA basketball tournament. This, friends, is the Southern Conference tournament.

Friend, Winner - Ri

That’s Davidson’s Couch

By A. W. TURNER
Sports Writer

One of the most important “little men” in the Davidson athletic program is Thomas Couch, the trainer for the basketball and football teams. However, Couch is more to the athletes than simply the coach who tapes ankles and passes out aspirin.

STUDENT EUROPEAN TOURS 1969

22 Days — June 4 to June 25
Roundtrip jet flights, deluxe hotels, private air-conditioned motorcoaches, personally escorted. Visiting: England, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, France.
CAROLINA SPECIAL
Departs New York
$1039

22 Days — June 6 to June 27
Roundtrip jet flights, moderate hotels, private air-conditioned motorcoaches, personally escorted. Visiting: France, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Holland, England.
ADVENTURER
Departs Columbia
$939

22 Days — June 7 to June 28
Roundtrip jet flights, moderate hotels, private air-conditioned motorcoaches, personally escorted. Visiting: England, Holland, Brussels, Luxembourg, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, France.
CAROLINIAN
Departs Columbia
$894

22 Days — June 8 to June 29
Roundtrip jet flights, moderate hotels, private air-conditioned motorcoaches, personally escorted. Visiting: England, France, Holland, Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal.
SOUTHERNER
Departs Columbia
$935

35 Days — June 19 to July 23
CIRCLE OF EUROPE
Departs New York
$1399
Sail eastbound and fly westbound — Plays, Night Clubs, Special Dinners with entertainment. First class hotels, personally escorted. Visiting: England, Holland, Germany, Austria, Italy, France, Switzerland.

For a descriptive brochure contact:
THOMAS TOURS, INC.
P. O. Box 2796
Rock Hill, S. C. 29730
Telephone 327-7186

The native of Ware Shoals, S. C., is a very cordial man. “I get to know all the players,” Couch remarked. He formed stronger friendships with Tupper Morehead and Don Davidson than any other Wildcat athletes, though. Morehead, a guard on the defensive unit of the football squad, graduated last year. Davidson was a starter on the Fred Hetzel-Dick Snyder basketball power in the early 1960s. “I was probably one of few people who really knew Don,” Couch recalled.

When asked to compare the Hetzel-Snyder team with this year’s squad, Coach Couch was hesitant to make a choice. “This year's team has much better bench strength and they're probably quicker. But the others had much more height.” However, when asked to compare Hetzel and Mike Maloy, he was definite. “Maloy is certainly the better all-around player.”

Couch was a star athlete in high school and hoped to play football at Western Carolina. However, injuries halted his plans. “It was after I got hurt that I got interested in a training job,” Couch said.

Couch was hesitant about emphasizing his responsibilities — the “doctoring” that keeps the Davidson cagers and gridders going. He was prouder of the way Davidson treats visiting teams. As a part of his job he arranges places for opponents to stay, and even treats them to special favors. For instance, he makes sure that opposing basketball squads have oranges and special sugar and salt solution Davidson athletes call “green stuff.” “We like to treat visiting teams as we would like them to treat us,” Couch commented.

Couch likes basketball season much more than football season. “Taking care of that many guys is work. When basketball time gets here it’s like a vacation. The most enjoyable part of basketball, though, is winning.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.