The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C. 28036.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON
Editors-in-Chief

JACK WELLMAN
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1969

PAGE TWO

The Davidson Packers

Don't look now, but the student Senate’s being packed. Very quietly, concealed among 71 other nominations, the Senate Executive Committee tried to slip in three new senators appointed to fill vacancies in representation from Watts, Cannon, and East. And if a freshman in Watts hadn’t caught the attempt and taken the case to court, the SEC would now have three pretty sure Senate votes.

It’s rare that such drastic political tricks occur in Davidson student government, but the amazing thing is that the Senate accepted the nominations without a murmur and confirmed them unanimously. There were no objections.

Now we aren’t commenting on the merits of the appointees; for now, that question is irrelevant. What we are concerned about is the SEC following in the steps of the Dean's Council and ignoring the student voice. The Senate is to represent the students, not the president of the SGA. That was made clear by the constitutional convention when it voted down, unanimously, a proposal to let members of the SEC be voting members of the Senate if they weren't elected to it.

The appointments are apparently unconstitutional, for the SGA Constitution says in two different places that the senators are to be elected. But that’s not the point. What is happening is that the SEC and Senate, in not allowing Watts, Cannon, and Richardson to elect their senators, are saying that they know better than those 358 students who should represent them, and that they don’t really care what those students think, because those students don’t really count.

But don’t forget the message to the faculty and administration. The SEC is the agency of student government specifically designated to work with the faculty and administration. What this move to pack the Senate says is that the SEC is sealing off avenues of genuine student expression so that the SEC will seem to be the voice of the students when in fact it is expressing its own opinion.

How can the student government on one hand press for more student voice on faculty committees and on the other hand work overtime to deny students representation in their own government? The student government has little enough basis of support among students without actively undermining what’s there.

And while we're at it, we might as well go ahead and point out that the amendment to the constitution that students “passed” is just as much a denial of student voice as packing the Senate. (You remember. It was read in assembly the day of the walkout, and you “voted” on it as you left. They didn’t get enough votes, so they walked around afterwards asking people, “Have you voted?” If the answer was no, the person was handed a ballot. Tammany Hall would be proud.) The way the vote was handled made any idea of referendum a farce. Again, whether the amendment was good or bad isn’t the issue (although we do think it was a mistake); what’s important is that the student government ignored the students it’s supposed to represent. Stated simply, a 65 percent majority doesn’t entitle a president to pack the Senate or railroad amendments.

Disturbing Silence

In the past years, The Rumor has come to be a widely accepted tradition at Davidson, largely because it has had the power to generate more excitement among students than just about anything else that has happened on campus. A slight flurry of excitement has been aroused in the past few weeks by the rumor that the Dean’s Council plans to do away with hall counselors next year.

Usually, rumors can be clarified into fact or erased entirely by merely contacting the source involved or by questioning the subject of the rumor. This time both have been proven fruitless. The rumor can’t be verified by its source, nor will the Dean’s Council say if it is even considering the change.

However, since rumors here usually tend to have at least some factual basis, it is fairly safe to assume that the idea has at least come up for discussion within the council. The secrecy behind the discussion is the big mystery. There is no doubt that the right council has control of this matter. This is a primary concern of the Dean’s Council.

Profitable

In spite of the fact that its name sounds like that of a new, baroque-rock ensemble, the Charlotte Area Educational Consortium may be one of the best things that has ever happened to Davidson. Very little notice has been made of the consortium, which was formed officially last week to include nine area colleges for the purpose of free exchange of faculty and students. But the group has great possibilities and deserves a good hard look on the part of students and faculty here.

Under the set-up of the consortium, students will be allowed to schedule courses and transfer credits at other institutions in the group. This will be of great value to students here who desire to complete a course not offered at Davidson, and also to students at the other schools in the same situation. For example, a Davidson history major interested in a study of Afro-American history could enroll in such a course at Johnson C. Smith University.

The consortium will also allow for a free-flowing of ideas from different theological backgrounds through the possible exchanges between Belmont Abbey and Sacred Heart Academy, both Catholic institutions, and Presbyterian Davidson or Queens College. Thus, through the program students will not have to wait for the integration of groups of other origins at Davidson. Now they can seek out a joint program.

A second major advantage is the plan for visiting professorships within the colleges. The consortium provides one term for a professor who specializes in a specific subject to lecture at another school. This program will help to develop strong programs in several fields of study, while it will open study of unexplored disciplines in others. This phase of the consortium will thus help to supplement or implement needed elements of study in a number of areas.

And, finally, the consortium will achieve another goal toward which the college has been working: at least token coeducation.

Ashes, Ashes, All Fall Down....

SENATE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
SENATE
SENATE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
SENATE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
FACULTY REGULATIONS COURT
STUDENT GOVERNMENT COURT
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION

Riner Explains Actions In Conventions Disputes

To The Editor:

I am writing this to explain my position for opposing the Constitutional Convention and for requesting and obtaining a restraining order barring further action of the SEC. At first glance my position seems to be nothing but a mere trifling with constitutional technicalities. But please do not write me off with such a narrow-minded stand.

My objection to the Constitutional Convention is that it is making a complete farce out of parliamentary procedure and is mocking the integrity of the Davidson student body. The calling of a convention to amend the constitution twice within six months cannot mean anything but a true lack of competence of the SEC. Constitutions were made to function, not to beAmended. So far our Constitution has not had time to test itself against any real situations. If it has had no real test, how can one judge it inoperative? We should not even have a Constitution if it is to be so fragrantly violated as it was in the voting procedure followed by the convention in “adopting” the amendment concerning the SEC. I would like to point out that the amendment referendum was not even conducted by the Elections Board. In the coming court case, you will no doubt hear the argument that the vote on the amendment showed the will of the majority of the student body. This may or may not be true: I don't know. But I don't think anyone could really say, because no one had time to think about what the amendment stated. Ask some of your friends. You will find that many of them do not know what the “vote” was all about. We received answers such as “What vote?” and Alumnus Knocks ROTC (Reprinted from the NEW YORK TIMES. The author is associate editor of “Christianity and Crisis.”) To The Editor: There is a relatively simple solution to the serious questions raised by the presence of Reserve Officers Training Corps on university campuses. It ought to satisfy the schools, the military, and perhaps even the overwrought Edward D. Decker (letter, Feb. 9). Remove it from the campuses entirely. Offer competitive commissions to students while in college that they can earn through intensive officers’ training after graduation. The schools—which quite properly have raised questions about ROTC—would be better off, the military would have better-trained officers, and it would cost less. ROTC was and is primarily a way to locate officers. It can be done more effectively outside the academic setting. In a time of considerably less ferment, I was subjected to four years of ROTC at Davidson College, N.C. It was an unmitigated waste of time and terrible preparation for military service. I did spend two years in the U.S. Army as a reserve officer and even received a commendation ribbon for surviving the tedium of a 15-month stint in Korea in the dull days of 1959-60. I can state categorically that there was no relationship between my work as an officer and my ROTC training in college. Leon Howell New York City “Oh, it had something to do with changing a few lines in the constitution.” Hopefully, a reasoned examination in the Court of Appeals will resolve the problems raised by the convention. Phil Riner ‘72 Davidson College By ROBERT PYEATT A Myopic Motivational Mess One measure of the provincialism of Davidson College is the value of the concerns that we the students occupy ourselves with as a group. Too often, these concerns are about as relevant to the outside world as the Basic ROTC curriculum to nuclear warfare. Starting at the lower level and working up, the majority of the student body is concerned with the immediate problems of its social life, its grades, pledge training at its fraternity house, and the fate of the basketball team. Particularly the fate of the basketball team. Between questions of why Santa Clara is ranked ahead of Davidson and who are the worst referees in the Southern Conference, there is no room for trivial concerns in dinner-table conversation. Even one Charlotte minister says that the three main existential questions bugging his congregation are: “Will Bryan Adrian learn to play defense?” “Can Mike Maloy pass all his courses for the rest of the term?” “Will Lefty Driesell go to Clemson or Maryland?” Needless to say, we symbol-hungry students have refined these problems to an intimate involvement with the lives of our team. To quote my fellow columnist, Uncle Percival, “Ah, Hysteria, Thou flower of the Arts. Thou art as pervasive as the Mid-Winters snow.” But moving on to concerns that extend beyond the end of March, there is another group of students whose particular forte is generally conceded to be higher on the metaphysical value scale. These are those movers and shakers of the college community known as the student government, or the constitution revisionists. These doughty souls delight in ever reforming that instrument of student power and participation, the Student Government Association (SGA) Constitution, and all its irrelevant appurtenances. Periodically they engage in vicious in-fighting, or try to make it look vicious. In the past, they have attempted to impress their constituencies by confronting the administration, eyeball-to-eyeball as it were, over such desperate issues as getting more soft drink machines and PE cuts for an already satisfied student body, that is, SGA. But they never really did their thing until they found the constitution. This small but dedicated band of constitutional fetishists probably has secret plans to go on reforming the damn thing until sometime in the 21st century, or as they see it, when the millennium comes for Davidson College. Now, there is nothing wrong with constitutions or fetishes. But they can be carried to extremes. And if the current Constitutional Convention isn’t an extreme, then the Wildcat Club isn’t gung-ho. THE DAVIDSONIAN has run out of copy paper and I am now typing on the back of a Wildcat Club newsletter, which is why I mentioned it. Some of the structured structure, etc., is necessary, but it can’t be worth over an afternoon's work for a powerless student government to structure itself. But the point, if any, of this rambling diatribe is that the concerns that seem to motivate students on other, supposedly more enlightened campuses are largely lacking at Davidson. War and racism and poverty are the main topics of student interest elsewhere, alas not here. But they do exist, and barely a long jump shot away from the gym. The main group concerns of the student body are forged by academic legalists and frustrated jocks. These concerns are in the vast majority, but Davidson will always be a Southern Conference school educationally until we get beyond committeeism and revising ourselves into paralysis. Davidson Viewed Critically From French Perspectives To The Editor: During the past few months as a Davidson student at Montpelier, I have had the opportunity of observing from the outside Davidson College as reflected in THE DAVIDSONIAN. I have been glad, yet disappointed; glad to hear about Davidson and its apparent progress, disappointed because THE DAVIDSONIAN, like its home, Davidson, appears to be suffering from lack of questioning, searching, and innovation. I say this knowing full well that this year has probably marked the greatest change at Davidson in at least half a century and that THE DAVIDSONIAN has done a good job of reporting on the Davidson situation. I congratulate both for these efforts. To the extent that THE DAVIDSONIAN has accurately reported the present situation, it has fulfilled its responsibility to inform Davidson students about their college. I question, however, whether that is the limit of its responsibility. Students in Paris are still in revolt against what they regard as an outmoded university system, an unjust political setup, and a corrupt society. At Davidson, students question the fraternity system and ask for a better social outlet through open dorms and closed doors. In a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN earlier this year, Marvin Sparrow accused Davidson of holding on to an outmoded concept of education, a concept which has the student pay his money, go to class, and receive from the professor some mystic goody called knowledge. Did anyone from THE DAVIDSONIAN put Sparrow on the spot by asking him what was wrong with this concept? Did THE DAVIDSONIAN ask him to state what he thought the proper concept should be? Did THE DAVIDSONIAN even question whether this was the prevailing concept at Davidson? No to all three questions! For at least two years there has been an active number of students arguing for greater student diversity: racially, geographically as well as sexually. Has THE DAVIDSONIAN asked why? Again No! Students at Davidson have been seeking a greater voice in the affairs of the college. Has THE DAVIDSONIAN questioned this? No! Should Davidson be run as a triumvirate with students, faculty, and administration having an equal voice in the running of its affairs? I could continue these questions for columns. They would serve no additional purpose because the answer would be the same. They would all revolve around two central questions: What sort of education should Davidson strive to provide? What should be Davidson's relationship to the exterior world? During the past year THE DAVIDSONIAN and from all appearances, the students, faculty, and administration have not looked at the central issues, but contented themselves with touching the peripheral points. Is THE DAVIDSONIAN more anxious to win its annual awards for the best college newspaper in the district than to serve the needs of the college community? I would challenge THE DAVIDSONIAN to do more than just report the facts and peripheral issues as it does now so well. I would challenge THE DAVIDSONIAN to do some creative penetration to and analysis of basic issues, to represent the various sides of those issues, perhaps by having persons representing those sides write guest articles for THE DAVIDSONIAN, and to challenge the students and the entire community to think about them. Vernon Odom, ‘70 Montpelier, France