Page Six

Group Ponders Chapel
By MARK HODGES
Staff Writer

A joint student-faculty committee is to be set up by Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to re-examine the college's role
in sponsoring educational programs, said Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston this week. This includes chapel programs, artist series, lectures,
and other college-sponsored programs. The formation of this committee is a response to the student senate’s proposal for modified chapel
regulations. The proposal called for:
— Fifty percent cuts.
— A committee with student representation to choose speakers and programs.
— A reduction of chapel programs to eight a quarter.

Spencer said yesterday that the committee would not be “bound by tradition” in its investigation. Spencer’s committee is not only
to explore the chapel situation but to consider what responsibility the college has to sponsor educational activities, Johnston said. The
problem of compulsory chapel attendance, said Johnston, is a complex issue. If Davidson were a larger school, there would be
no need for compulsory attendance. At Davidson, however, many guest speakers would have a very small audience if attendance were
voluntary, the dean said. If the college cut down substantially or stopped altogether sponsoring speakers and programs, it would be
accused of not fulfilling its educational responsibility.

February 7, 1969 — The Davidsonian

(Staff Photo by Weems)
PUTTING ON THE FINISHING TOUCHES
Gately eyeballs one of yearbook’s 265 pages.

Gately And Staff Finish Casual, Unposed Q & C
By BOB WALLACE
Staff Writer

The 71st issue of Quips and Cranks has been sent to the publisher, and according to editor Don Gately, only
a few of the 265 pages are being withheld for finishing touches. Gately said he plans an informal approach to
this year’s annual. He has hopes of showing the 1968-69 year in a glimpse—people and events as they occurred. With
this in mind, Gately has eliminated all posed pictures, except those of the fraternities and underclassmen. “This year's book is
bigger than before, and we're going to innovate numerous special effects,” Gately said.

Hengeveld Rites Set
Funeral services for Fred W. (Dutch) Hengeveld, who was associated with the college for over 50 years, will be held
this morning at 11 in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. He died Wednesday night at his home on Concord Road.
He was 71. Hengeveld, a native of Palatka, Fla., held the college record for the number of years on the
faculty or staff. He graduated from here in 1918, then after serving with the Marine Corps in World War I
and a brief stint with the Little Rock, Ark., professional baseball team, returned to teach at Davidson High and coach
the college basketball and baseball teams. He became registrar and director of admissions in 1924 and later became full-time registrar
as enrollment grew. He retired in 1967. He is survived by his wife, a son, and a daughter.

The annual will cost about $15,000 to publish. American Year Book Company, which has published the Davidson annual for the
last three years, set four deadlines—from mid-December to March 1. There is a condition in the contract, though, that will
allow late material if the basketball team should play in the regional finals. The mid-May campus distribution date will culminate
over a year’s effort by Gately and the 11 members of his direct staff. The photography staff submitted 6,000 photos,
of which approximately 1,100 will appear.

BACK TO 8 A.M.
Conflict Of Interest Ends Night Classes
By JULE YOUNG
Staff Writer

Several courses meeting at night during

...Court (Continued From Page 1)
Education (1967). Although that case dealt with public rather than private education, the court noted the case of Guillory vs.
Tulane University (1962), in which it was ruled that a private university is subject to the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment and thereby to due process. “The penalty of ‘campusing’ is unconstitutional because its method of enforcement is deemed self-incrimination,”
the writ said. It added that to penalize a student who refused to sign a statement that he has not
left campus while campused would violate both the Code of Responsibility’s and the constitution’s provisions against self-incrimination.

...President Hobbie (Continued From Page 1)
tem now: inadequate and unfair.” Hobbie also focused on the problem of student apathy. “Apathy has been a problem because
students don't see a way to change things around here. I hope the barber shop incident showed them that there
is a way. Channels to the faculty and administration are open; it just takes time to effect changes here. The
secret to change Davidson is work, even though this is sometimes not very enjoyable. If students realized this, then more
changes could be brought about.”

Hobbie indicates that he planned to have the Senate meet only every three weeks and then only to act on
what had already been done in committees. “Committee meetings will be once a week and this is where the raising
of problems will occur. The committee system hasn't been tried yet, but we'll use it and decide if it's practical.”

Drug Hearing Is Today In Virginia
A preliminary hearing for two Davidson juniors charged with possession of marijuana will be held this morning at 10 in
Prince William County Court in Virginia. The students, who were arrested and charged Jan. 20 in Prince William County, are
free on bond. One is charged with possession of drugs ($1500 bond), possession of marijuana ($1500), and the failure to
have car registration ($24.75), and the other with possession of marijuana ($1500 bond) and failure to have proper identification ($24.75).

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
JIM COOLEY
CHARLES McEWEN
ROBERT PYEATT
BOB REID
JOHN WILLIAMS

Managing Editors:
FRANKLIN ANDERSON
DAVID SWEATT

Assistant Managing Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
BIFF FINE

Sports Editor:
BOB DUNHAM

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
ROCKY CROSSWHITE

News Editor:
GEORGE ALLEN

Copy Editor:
Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Photography Editors:
BILL OLSON
DAVID WEEMS

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Assistant Business Manager:
JACK WELLMAN

Advertising Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLIThe winter quarter classes have been put back into their original 8 a.m. class hour, the Registrar's Office said
this week. According to Dr. Jay Ostwalt, registrar and associate dean of the faculty, the classes originally scheduled at 8
a.m. were informally changed to night meetings. “It appears that some students had conflicting activities at night and did not
voice their objections to the conflicts which would result from such changes,” he said. The courses involved were those of
Assistant Professor Karl Garrison of the Sociology Department and Instructor Robert Lennox of the Psychology Department. As a result, Garrison
and Lennox have revamped their meeting times to meet the original schedule for which the students registered. Lennox, who teaches
an education course that was involved in the switch, pointed out that his students had circulated a petition among themselves
requesting a change from the morning to a night meeting time. “It appears,” he said, “that some signed the petition
with conflicts, reasoning that they'd rather try to come at night when they could than make it to class in
the mornings.” Lennox said he felt night would be better suited than the day for the scheduling of some classes;
nevertheless, he pointed out the difficulty of scheduling extracurricular events at a school of Davidson's size if class programming were
not structured to give these activities a chance to compete. “Personally, I am willing to meet when students want to
meet and to be flexible—if they choose 3 in the morning, it's all right with me.”

President Knocks Out Of Assembly Walk-Out

Some 75 students stalked out of chapel yesterday, but a large-scale walk-out planned to protest the compulsory programs failed to
materialize. Leaders of the walk-out, who had been predicting that up to 75 percent of the student body would leave,
attributed the small response to the presence of President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. on stage. “Most people didn't leave because
Dr. Spencer was on the stage,” senior Scott Cutting, one of the organizers, said. “It was not because of anything
he said, though, but out of respect for him as a person.” “Nothing constructive was said about the abolition of
compulsory chapel.” Spencer said rude treatment of chapel speakers “shakes my faith in the ability of individual students to live
up to the Code of Responsibility.” And, in an apparent reference to the planned walk-out, he said “irresponsible acts” would
“undermine efforts to give students a larger share in campus government” as well as being subject to “faculty action.” He
also announced that his joint student-faculty committee on extra-classroom responsibilities, which was appointed earlier this week, would be investigating the
chapel situation. He reiterated his promise to look into possible “substantial revision” of chapel programs. The chapel program consisted of
brief talks by Honor Court Chairman Ken Crews and Dr. R. D. Kaylor and senior John Williams of the Regulations
Court on the code.

Committees (Continued From Page One)

Director Peter Nicholls and Assistant Business Manager Robert J. Stephenson will serve as ex-officio members of the committee, and three
students to be appointed by the SEC. The Committee on Learning Resources will enumerate objectives for the Learning Center proposed
in the new curriculum and will recommend both a program to meet these objectives as well as ways to raise
the funds that will be necessary to meet them. The committee will be headed by Dr. W. G. Workman, who
will be aided by Kelton, Dr. J. I. Hopkins, Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, and Dr. J. S. Winkler. Leland Parks
of the library staff and Mrs. Richard C. Burts Jr. will also serve on the committee. The faculty Committee on
Inter-Institutional Cooperation will be chaired by Johnston. This committee will meet with corresponding committees from Queens College and Johnson C.
Smith University to discuss the possibilities for cooperation among the three institutions represented. Also serving on the committee are Dr.
J. M. Frederickson, Dr. R. R. Kincaid, Dr. A. J. McKelway, and Donald M. Plott, with Ostwalt serving as an
ex-officio member.

A NEW APPROACH after college... what? a career exploration handbook by Newel Brown Career Exploration Through Exploration of One’s FEELINGS
VALUES SELF-CONCEPT

MOORESVILLE BODY SHOP 131 East Moore Avenue MOORESVILLE, N. C. Telephone 664-3345 We recognize Davidson Students & Faculty FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

OPEN HOUSE: These houses will be open Sunday night at 8: J. A. McGeachy 309 Pinecrest. Locke White 203 Lorimer
J. B. Woods 452 Lorimer

Depot St. It's a refillable ballpoint pen

WINNER—Ken Gallup, a senior from Sanford, has been named recipient of a $19,000 scholarship for graduate study at the Bowman
Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University. Gallup was one of eight N. C. residents to win.

Impetus

Let us freshen your impression for the big Weekend. — Bring us your shirts, too. Jackson Cleaners Just beyond The
Coffee Cup

JOHN PANCAKE GREG SCOTT $2.95 imprinted

Contributors this week: Paul Rowland, Jim Phillips, Ed Shoaf, John McLean, Cecil Burney, Robert Elliott, Danny White, Norwood Poland, Joe
Smith, Mark Hodges, Charlie Knighton, Jule Young, Sterling Abernathy, Dan Graham, Steve Roady, Russ Merritt, and Greg Mitchell. The judge
can either throw the case out, the clerk of court said, or find probable cause. If probable cause is found,
the case will go to the grand jury in April, the clerk said.
