Cats’ Tracks By RUSS MERRITT Sports Editor

Hey, Larry Brown: Why?

A head coaching job at a college with a prestigious basketball program has long been a burning ambition for Larry Brown, a desire that has possessed him ever since he was a collegiate star at North Carolina. It seemed that he was on his way to realizing his goal when he became an assistant under Dean Smith at UNC upon graduation. Very few had doubts that he was on his way up.

Then, after taking time out for two years to lead the Oakland Oaks of the American Basketball Association to the league title, becoming an all-star guard in the process, he finally hit the jackpot, landing a collegiate coaching position that scores of other basketball mentors would have given their eye-teeth for.

It was in early May that Brown was chosen by the Davidson powers-that-be after weeks of delay to succeed the very successful Lefty Driesell as Wildcat head coach.

It was a dream come true for Brown. Not only did he have control over one of the most successful basketball programs in the country at a school that somehow draws the best of the high school basketball talent, but he also had the three leading scorers returning from one of the best teams in the nation.

And yet today Brown is once again looking for that ideal coaching position he desires.

Why? The question has arisen again and again. Just what did happen? Why did Brown quit?

What did happen is this: Brown quickly became disillusioned with Davidson basketball when he discovered that the Wildcat program and the North Carolina program weren’t the same. It is to the credit of Davidson and Lefty that the Wildcats, operating on a limited budget (in comparison with that of UNC, UCLA, and other powers), have finished with such enviable won-lost records in the past few years, once being chosen by Sports Illustrated as the best team in the nation before the season started and last year finishing two points away from a trip to the NCAA play-offs.

Brown, however, was under the impression that Davidson had obtained its success by going big time in basketball in the same sense that North Carolina had gone big time. The shocking realization of the truth quickly drained Brown’s enthusiasm. The truth is that UNC’s recruiting budget is four times greater than Davidson’s. Recruiting, however, was not the only area that served to dampen his enthusiasm. According to certain sports writers who have been close to the Davidson basketball scene, Davidson’s high standards of admission, the limited overall basketball budget, and several minor incidents all combined to give Brown the impression that the Wildcats’ priorities were different from those of UNC.

Bill Cate, one of the leading Southern basketball writers, talked with Brown just hours after the promising Wildcat mentor had resigned. According to Cate, Brown felt that he had been led to believe that the Davidson program was similar to the UNC program. “Brown thought,” Cate later wrote, “that the school’s lofty academic requirements would be softened for prospective recruits... and also that the recruiting budget would be raised.”

Incidents concerning the Davidson basketball camp, office carpeting, and his temporary residence in the guest house also miffed Brown. Brown was sent the bills for his temporary Davidson residence and the office carpeting, and, although the college later paid the bills, it disillusioned him further. The incident concerning the basketball camp arose when the college gave Driesell a large amount of money to take the camp from under Lefty’s control. Driesell had operated the camp for several years, calling it the “Lefty Driesell Basketball Camp.” Last year, before Driesell finally decided to go to Maryland, the majority of applicants for the camp had already been accepted and Driesell had made plans to once again be at the helm. Therefore, when the college gave some of the profits to Lefty, Brown suffered.

Apparently, it was Brown’s earlier association with North Carolina that caused his downfall. It is very doubtful that any UNC head coach has been billed for office carpeting or temporary housing or that a Tar Heel mentor has had to worry about the likes of recruiting budgets and strict academics. Driesell had the temperament and ability to handle the type of problems that Davidson’s head basketball coach faces. Brown also had motivation, but not like Driesell’s. Driesell had his way, and Brown often did not. In short, it appears that the position of head basketball coach at Davidson and Larry Brown were not suited for each other.

So now, Brown is once again waiting for that ideal job at the big-time basketball power to become available.

And Davidson has another coach.

NEW WILDCAT SPOKESMAN

Terry Holland assumes head coach's post. Holland, Assistants Set To Continue Successes

Winning. This one word seems best in describing the new Davidson head basketball coach Terry Holland and his equally new assistants, Neill McGeachy and Brickels. “I don’t feel that there will be any let-up at all in the present successful basketball program,” Holland said recently. “Davidson has the reputation for turning out some of the very best basketball teams in the nation, and we intend to keep it that way.”

Ever since Holland became associated with Wildcat basketball, Davidson has never had a losing season. He joined the varsity as a sophomore in the 1961-62 season and began immediately helping Lefty Driesell turn Davidson into a national power. Holland's senior year saw the Wildcats finish tenth nationally as Holland captained the team and led the nation in field goal percentage.

Upon graduation, Holland decided to remain with Driesell as an assistant coach, and during the years when he helped direct the Wildcats, Davidson recorded 175 wins against only 61 losses. His freshmen teams were 72-12, including the 16-0 frosh squad that included Mike Maloy, Jerry Kroll, and Doug Cook.

The Assistants

Holland's assistants’ records are almost as enviable. McGeachy, a former standout at Lenoir Rhyne where he led the Bears to...

Patterson, Sophomores Lead Optimistic Booters

By BILL BERRY Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcat soccer team has begun preparation for its 1969 season, and Coach Harry Fogleman is very optimistic about the team’s chances. Fogleman feels that this...

Ruggers, Netters Start Action

Davidson's one-year-old rugby team will open its schedule Sunday afternoon at 2 on the practice football field in hopes of bettering its initial 2-5-1 record. Zack Mobley, team captain, said that the team fully expects to improve now that it has a year of experience. Also, head tennis coach Harry Fogleman has announced that fall tennis practice will begin Monday afternoon. Anyone interested in playing tennis should see Fogleman.Two regular season and tournament titles, had been a successful high school coach in Statesville before joining the Davidson staff. He will coach the freshman team and help with the recruiting in the East. Bo Brickels, who came to Davidson with Larry Brown last spring, was very instrumental in the signing of the five freshmen scholarship winners. His high school teams have won 81 games while losing just 34. His duties will be to help with the varsity and freshmen teams and to recruit in the Midwest, where his work as an assistant at Rice was noteworthy. Even though some critics have already started counting the days before Davidson basketball deflates, the coaches have adopted their slogan “Davidson College: Where Top Ten is a Tradition.” This year’s team is one of his better squads of recent years. “We have real good personnel and spirit,” says Fogleman, and as a result, he expects a successful season. The team is led by Cliff Patterson, a senior who should be a strong candidate for post-season honors if he escapes the injuries which hampered him last season. Fogleman feels that Patterson would have been selected to the All-South team if he had not missed the last three games of last year due to an injury to his leg. Other returning lettermen are Dick Allison, Frank Ball, Randy Carter, Bill Horton, Cam MacNair, John Bruner, Brian Tarr, Charles Heiner, Mike Taylor, Rich Cowart, and Steve Culbertson. The Wildcats are basically a sophomore team, and Fogleman feels that the year of experience the sophomores have obtained will help them tremendously. The team started practice on September 18 in preparation for the first game, which will be at Duke on Oct. 1.

The Davidsonian
September 26, 1969
Page Three

Hightower, Experienced Defense Challenge Davidson Aerial Circus
By DON PARMAN
Asst. Sports Editor

Nine starters and several lettermen return this year. The defensive secondary returns intact, led by Mark Palmer, who intercepted five passes last year. This is a year for outstanding quarterbacks in the Southern Conference, and Furman’s signal caller has the Wildcat defensive team worried. Dick Immel, a 180-pound senior, may play at both running back and defensive halfback for the Paladins. Tomorrow night at Green, versatile Cleve Hightower and a rugged, veteran defense will challenge the Davidson passing attack in what Davidson coaches predict will be a real test. Leading the Davidson defense in its bid to stop Hightower will be Nick Dumich and Robert Norris, singled out by Smith as the top Wildcat performers in the 21-8 win over Guilford. Smith registered disappointment over the Davidson performance. “No one was pleased with the way we played,” he said. He was quick to add, however, that the surprisingly good Quaker pass defense was the key in stopping the Davidson offense. “They made us give up the passes and go to the running game and then handled that.”

Despite the disappointment, no one connected with the football program is discouraged. A new team at Davidson, the B squad, opens its campaign this afternoon against Gardner Webb. The squad is comprised primarily of upperclassmen who would not normally see action in the varsity games. Furman will pit the running of junior Cleve Hightower and three-year starter Tommy Broadwell against the Davidson defense. Hightower is replaced by the coaches as the key to the Paladin offense. Leading the Davidson defense in its bid to stop Hightower will be Nick Dumich and Robert Norris, singled out by Smith as the top Wildcat performers in the 21-8 win over Guilford. Smith calls Hightower “a very dangerous runner whom we have to control. He doesn't run the option as much as he just runs the ball.” Hightower has also shown a fine passing touch, and his performance in Furman’s 21-8 win over Presbyterian last Saturday has had Smith honing his defense all week. Primary responsibility for containing Hightower will be given to defensive ends Ricky Snipes and Jim Buchanan.

The Paladin ground game has not given as much support to Hightower’s heroics as the Furman coaches had hoped. Fullback is where the Paladins center their running strength with two strong performers, George Vaughn and Joe Street. On the receiving end of Hightower’s passes are a pair of junior ends and a sophomore speedster. Pat Carroll and Byron Trotter return for their junior years after snaring 61 passes between them last year. Flanker Mike Fabian has been tabbed for stardom by the coaches based on his performance last year’s freshman squad. The Paladin defense is considered the real strength of the team by Coach Bob King.

Come see our fine selections of Campus wear. Remember, you have an automatic charge account at our store. Come browse your back-to-school friends clothing with the pace-setting traditionalist John Mock & Son. Mooresville—only 6 miles north. Welcome back to Davidson. We have fried chicken for Saturday night supper, Colonel Sanders’ Recipe Kentucky Fried Chicken, 503 S. Broad, Mooresville, N.C. Phone 664-1505. We welcome you students back! For the very best and quickest service in town, come by and try us. Quick shirt laundry service also at Jackson Cleaners, Depot Street, next door to Coffee Cup.

Suppose you're up in space and you need to tighten a nut on the outside of your space vehicle. Well... if you use an ordinary power wrench, you know what happens! You spin around. Not the nut. But with this new space wrench, the nut turns—not you. And we've got all kinds of fascinating equipment designed specially for way out there. And lots for way down here, too. If you're a science or engineering graduate and you're looking for a good place for your talents, be an aerospace leader on the Aerospace Team. The U.S. Air Force is the largest scientific and research organization of the space age. You'll be right where the breakthroughs are... breakthroughs such as better ways to tighten a nut. Pretty exciting if you're looking for a new twist.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, Box A, Dept. SCP 91, Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148

NAME
PLEASE PRINT
MAJOR
GRADUATE DATE
CAREER INTEREST
SUBJECT
COLLEGE
HOME ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP
I UNDERSTAND THERE IS NO OBLIGATION.

U.S. Air Force Ad No. WY 69-336, © 1969, JOE ADAMS, Inc., New York