Che BDavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO DECEMBER 5, 1959

In Time

It is only natural that the student whose number came high in the draft lottery this week would like to
disaffiliate himself from further participation in the ROTC program. For those already involved in the advanced program, this may or
may not be possible, but it is gratifying to see the helpful response of the Davidson ROTC Department in trying
to solve the student’s dilemma. PMS Col. Virgil Foster has quickly won the applause of the numbers of Davidson students
faced by such a problem, and also from those on the other side of the fence, whose numbers were low
and who wish now to enroll in the ROTC program. Foster acted quickly on behalf of the students, directing an
immediate inquiry to higher-ranking officials concerning the possibilities of disaffiliation and procedures for late enrollment. The brightest part of the
action is found in Foster’s concern for the students first, the ROTC Department second. Certainly, he feels that the number
of students now wanting to register will offset those wishing to leave the program; but this is quite noticeably and
quite admirably second in his considerations.

Foster’s action regarding the possible programs of retreat was a pleasant surprise, for it was a natural assumption that the
department would be a bit displeased by requests for dismissal from the ROTC program. It is especially commendable when one
considers the suddenness of the requests. Whether Foster and the ROTC staff will be able to work out a program
suitable to all parties concerned depends upon a number of factors, notably the decision of ranking army officials concerning the
problem. But at least for the present, Foster is making easier a rather ticklish situation.

What Are Girls Doing Here?
(Reprinted from The Daily Princetonian, Princeton University.)

I am a coed at Princeton and I have a question: What are girls doing here?

Answer one: Coeds came to Princeton because college should be a place where boys can associate with girls in relation
to their intellectual growth — not just as sex objects.

Answer two: Coeds came to Princeton to relieve the Princeton gentleman’s sexual frustrations.

Notice the peculiar paradox in these answers. Answer one has even been given by Miss Bikini, who once said, “We’re
here to get an education.” Answer two shines out in that now-famous phrase: “Coeducation or masturbation.” I can’t seem to
identify with answer two. Really, what am I supposed to do? (Not to get dirty or anything.) And yet answer
one doesn’t seem to take the whole picture into account. This brings us to a most amazing question: Is coeducation
real? College men and women should be able to view each other as more than sex objects, but somehow there
is still a problem: sex. At college, we are between 18 and 22 years old and, amazingly enough, sex is
definitely very much a part of our existence. So the jackpot question is this: What does one do until his
mental maturity matches his sexual maturity?

Let us examine the answers that college students have found: The old answer was to sexually frustrate oneself for four
to eight years. That solution is quickly dying, as Princeton’s coeducation will prove. So we get down to the second
solution — mess around a lot. Obviously, the second solution is the one most accepted these days. At least it
is much better than turning queer by the first method. But now we get to the climax question: Is this
most widely accepted solution the best solution? I don’t think so. Look around and see how many people are strangely
unhappy messing around. Look at the not-so-strange ways that this unhappiness has shown itself. Our generation has been distinguished by
cynicism, rebellion, and wild “kicks.” It boils down to a question of whether people can be happy in polygamous relationships.
Love can be aptly compared to infinity — in its abstract and unexplainable qualities, for instance. And it’s hard enough
to realize infinity in one person, much less two or more. So polygamy seems to be the illusion that sets
in when people aren’t allowed to find infinity within one person — when people aren’t allowed to think that they
are capable of finding a monogamous partner when their bodies are physically capable of it. We’re not expected to be
mature enough, and it’s strange how adept we are at fulfilling expectations. We play games until someone thinks we’re “old
enough” to enter the “real” world of monogamous sexual relationships. Games like dating. Unfortunately, something happens in those years of
playing games — we get used to games and make a game of life. Look at the games people have
made out of marriage. Why is it odd for people to marry at age 16? It’s silly to say that
everyone should marry at 16, because we know that polygamy is a definite human possibility. But a monogamous person is
not given a chance in society’s structure. A monogamous person is almost forced into the weirdness of mental-physical separation before
he’s “old enough” to marry.

A Time Lapse

Students of Davidson College, welcome back. After a brief intermission for Thanksgiving, it’s good to see all of you back
again for another brief intermission of classes before Christmas recess begins. It has struck many people as odd that the
academic schedule still maintains that there must be a period of classes between Thanksgiving and Christmas. This is completely unnecessary,
now that Davidson is off the semester system and fully (?) converted to the trimester concept. There are actually three
peculiarities in the academic schedule for this year: (1) that school started so late (September 24th), (2) that there is
a short period of classes between Thanksgiving and Christmas, and (3) that the year ends so late (June 11th). These
curiosities are closely related to one another. If school had started on September 10th instead of September 24th, we could
have ended exams on November 25th and had a forty-day vacation before the start of the Winter term on January
5th. September 10th is not an outrageously early date for the beginning of school. Most schools do start about then,
but Davidson students are left behind to tend the home fires or whatever until the late date of September 24th
rolls around. Summer jobs seldom last that late into September anyway.

Having a forty-day recess between terms would be advantageous to many. It would provide time in which small-scale career service
projects could be undertaken, or special study projects, or reading for comprehensives. The special program at Wofford College in this
vein has worked quite well. Those students who need employment over the period would have an additional two weeks —
during the Christmas rush — in which to draw paychecks. One consideration which should not be taken seriously is the
argument that a September 10th starting date would interfere with Orientation and related opening festivities. The overlong five-day orientation period
could be retained if the powers that be would schedule it to begin on September 4th. But then, there’s really
no reason why it has to be as long as five days, either. Another consideration is probably worth overlooking. And
that is the fact that by adding 14 days to the first of the academic year, we would only be
gaining 12 extra days of vacation. This objection is more than met by the consideration of the time’s being better
spent between terms. The other sore point is that school will last this year until June 11th. This seems unavoidable,
for the most part, given the necessity of a Spring break of some sort. This year the Spring break will
last nine days, as opposed to four last year. With a four-day break again this year, the best we could
do would still be June 8th. But no matter how you look at it, people aren’t missing too many days
of class, now are they?

"Who Are Those Guys, Anyway?”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Bostian Attacks Editorial, Praises Council’s Efforts

To the Editor:

In response to your comments about the shortcomings of the Social Council in the November 21 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN,
let me say, “Wake up.” Last Saturday night The Guess Who received a standing ovation and curtain call from the
audience which clapped, stamped, and thoroughly enjoyed itself throughout the concert. Despite the fact that their drummer was in an
Indianapolis hospital after suffering a stroke, the group, in an informal atmosphere, presented a variety of solid numbers. The Guess
Who had never done a show without their drummer, and as a result, many of the numbers were thrown together
hastily. They worked only because The Guess Who are such talented and versatile musicians. “Lack of dialogue?” All I can
say is that someone just didn’t listen very well.

At Homecoming, a fantastic group, the Rotary Connection, played to an audience which was still entrenched in hardline soul and
bubblegum traditions. I, for one, am thankful to the Social Council, and especially Bill Traxter, for bringing us a group
that plays contemporary rock, rather than paying $5,000 or so for a well-established, out-of-date group like the Four Seasons or
the Supremes. The times they are a-changin’, and I’m glad the Social Council, if not THE DAVIDSONIAN, recognizes this.

[EDITED BY TOM WAY AND C. L. CHESHIRE]

A popular belief among Davidson students, and college students in general, is that a literary work must be abstruse, recondite,
or packed with allusions in order to be worthwhile. Like most things, the majority of student writing actually falls into
a middlemost...Category between the extremes of simple and complex. As on other campuses, the most recent trend in good quality
student writing at Davidson has been towards the “complex pole” with the production of erudite and, often, seemingly erudite short
stories, poems, and essays. Due to the unique environment of the educational cloister in which we find ourselves, this complicated
type of scholarly work frequently appeals to us. (After all, wouldn’t you rather have your English prof spot you reaching
your personal peak of total absorption with Carlyle’s “Sartor Resartus” than to have him catch you whimpering over a line
from a thin, tattered volume of Emily Dickinson’s best?)

Obviously, one must be careful not to limit oneself by narrowing his scope to the appreciation of just the scholarly,
more serious, “heavier” side of literature. Just as valuable and often more appealing is a much simpler style of writing,
one that practically condemns complex sentences, a style of which Hemingway is frequently cited as the modern master. To this
point — the value and validity of unadorned writing — two installments of “Column” have been devoted. The opening selection
was a poem which used an appropriate dry and unembellished language to depict famine in India. This week's choice is
a simply written short story by California freshman Bruce Becker. It is a lightly written, comic parallel to the well-known
Anglo-Saxon folk epic, Beowulf.

Harvey Beowulf is a New York policeman. Although very noticeable in appearance, he is just an everyday cop. Behind his
blue uniform, he carries 310 pounds on a frame of six feet and nine inches. Surprisingly trim and agile, he
won the dance contest at the Policeman's Ball in 1967. His strength gained public renown when he carried six students
at once from the administrative building at Columbia. Other than this, he is just a normal cop.

Sergeant Beowulf started this day like any other day: Upon awaking, he glanced outside at the smog and decided it
was a normal day. He shaved, dressed, and shuffled to the door to get the paper. Returning to the kitchen,
he put on a cup of coffee and sat down to read. The morning headlines read: CENTRAL PARK MUGGER STRIKES
AGAIN. Beowulf poured his coffee. The mugger was an elusive fiend who had thus far avoided all attempts of capture.
He had 78 muggings to his record in the space of a year. Characteristic of his attack was a strangling
embrace and a thunderous, speedy retreat, which outstripped the fastest pursuers. Central Park was his undisputed domain, and Mayor Lindsay
wanted it back.

When Sgt. Beowulf entered the station house later that morning, he was told to report to Lieutenant Higlac. He walked
up two flights of stairs and knocked at his superior's door. “Come in,” a voice from within mumbled, and Harvey
strode inside. Lieutenant Higlac told our hero of his forthcoming assignment. At midnight that night he was to drive to
Central Park and capture the mugger. Because of the elusiveness of the purse purloiner, however, the sergeant was to disguise
himself. The lieutenant ordered him to dress in the attire of an old woman to avoid suspicion. Approaching seven feet
in height, Beowulf had difficulty seeing the reason for this command; but, true to fealty and fraternity, he obeyed it.

Thus it was that one could see an enormous old woman hobbling around Central Park at 12:30 that night. It
was a moonless night as the billy club-warrior jerkily walked along the darkened paths. Beneath his convincing disguise, Sgt. Beowulf
was tense with excitement: his blue eyes glistened with anticipation. This was to be the making of fame and fortune
which would brighten the annals of the New York Police Department history for decades to come. As he approached a
particularly sinister glade, Beowulf doubled his guard. Leaves rustled in a tree ahead. The diligent deputy stopped and cautiously surveyed
his surroundings. He slowly proceeded. A branch shuddered. Suddenly an arm was clasped around his neck. Beowulf grasped the hand,
its bones crunching. The infamous mugger screeched horrendously and fell from the cop's back. The moment his feet touched the
ground, he started to run. Harvey wouldn't release him. For minutes they grappled; but, the mugger escaped. Beowulf had dealt
him a mortal wound, though, for in the sergeant’s hand was the man's arm.

Sergeant Harvey Beowulf is now serving five years in the state penitentiary for manslaughter.
—Bruce Becker ‘73

As the situation stands, the apathy of the upperclass toward Union-sponsored events is glaringly apparent. Let us not further embarrass
the upperclasses by charging admission and driving them into the north woods completely. Let's just have a little more support
for a Social Council that, in my opinion, does a fantastic job with limited funds.
Larry Bostian '73

Davidson College is in trouble. The faculty vote of November 11, to abolish area exams was Apollo Davidson on the
dark side of the moon throwing out its flight program without another.

Student Supports EPC Plan
To the Editor:
The covenant is complete. The Educational Policy Committee and the faculty have come to terms. The spilled blood of the
sophomore is only incidental in this God-sanctioned alliance. Yes, rumor has it that the students and the faculty are once
again united. Their short love spat resulted only in a momentary lessening of area requirements and a set of journalistic
cat-calls; today the faculty meets; is it to re-institute the Area Examinations? (The eschatological coming of Christ! Joy to the
world!)

Faculty, please listen to the voice in the wilderness. I believe the EPC proposal of several weeks ago was a
step in the right direction. The added flexibility suggested by their proposal would have benefitted the program of education here.
The most recent faculty decision, however, virtually wiped out the Career-Service and non-classroom study program and in effect divided B.B.S.
(before Blue Sky) Davidson's education program into three terms rather than two. So, faculty members still reading, please bring back
our beloved Area Exams. But caution, a proposal too similar to the earlier Great Compromise of the EPC will only
lead to an exodus putting the Mt. Sinai event to shame.
Kurt Geisinger '72
Davidson College

Percival’s Remover
By David Sweatt

As one sophomore put it, “I kinda liked being a part of something that was at least partly experimental; now
all we have is more of the same.” But what is more distressing than the action itself (with implicit increase
in class loads, an end to the career service idea, probable harm to the long-overdue honors college, and the ho-hum
addition of another course), is the way the decision was made. The action seemed at first to be laudable: “The
members of the faculty made a painstaking study of the whole question and finally voted, after much conscientious debate, to
abolish the exams.” But it didn’t happen that way. The abolition vote was a fait accompli before the meeting was
convened. The session was preceded by a last-minute barrage of alleged “proposals,” not all of which were even remotely feasible.
This prodigious proliferation of proposals — “one every fifteen minutes,” as one individual put it — was accompanied by a
frenzy of last-minute caucuses. Organizers crowded into a small office, telephones rang, security was maintained. It would have been great
at a national political convention; but it may be that a college has to forego the luxury of such romantic
scheming.

It seems singularly questionable that members of a decision-making body should maneuver cautiously to defeat the studied proposal of those
of their number who were elected to perform such a function. There were some who defended the decision on the
basis that, “the issues went above the committee.” But if in times of crisis, at times when crucial decisions are
made, we abandon those prescribed, ordered processes which we in calmer moments devised, to what do we turn? If the
faculty standing committees are important only where routine matters are concerned and irrelevant where matters of great importance are concerned,
then they have been emasculated to the point of uselessness. And matters of importance will have to be hashed out
in the precipitous climate that prevails on the floor of faculty meetings.

To top off the abandonment of its own established processes, the faculty voted to turn the whole matter over to
a committee to be appointed by the president of the college. Memories are short. It has only been a few
years since faculty members insisted that the new faculty constitution provide for elected committees to handle important faculty business. And
the most important faculty responsibility is that of the curriculum, formerly overseen by the Educational Policy Committee.

Why did it happen? Some did not like the Blue Sky Curriculum in the first place, though they voted for
it unanimously at its inception. (Including one entire division which it appears would like to see it die.) Some thought
the situation was beyond help — the only way to do better was to drop everything for a new start.
But what is most distressing is that so many appear blind to the requirement of subordinating individual preferences to the
decision-making and goal necessities of corporate compromise. “Compromise” assumes a bad taste when individuals regard compromises in program as compromises
of personal principle. It is this sort of misplaced altruism that converts to chaos in any sphere of activity. Malcolm
Cowley said of another time and place: “Friendships were broken off. People could no longer endure the little hypocrisies that
kept their relations stable; they had to set everything straight, like a man preparing for death.”

A rump dean has tried, and failed, to get the faculty to support its own measures. And so we’re on
the dark side of the moon without a flight program and nobody at the controls. And so we wait.
