March 7, 1969 ———S outside perspective By DICK ANDERSON Page Four

Poll Shows Congress Against Draft

A poll taken by the Christian Science Monitor last week showed that about two out of every three congressmen answering the poll favored an all-volunteer army. However, almost everyone also said that he doubted that the measure would be passed at the present time. About half of each house answered the poll. Most of the Congressmen also said that they believed that the draft laws ought to be modified. College deferments of some kind were popular. A nationwide poll of citizens by the same paper showed that 62 percent of those polled favored continuance of the draft in some form.

Vandy Approves Black Studies

Vanderbilt University has approved a black-studies program to begin next fall. According to The Hustler, the committee in charge of setting up the program has discovered a total of 67 courses relevant to Afro-American studies. A similar program is under consideration at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, but the chairman of the History Department at UNCG said that lack of student interest had so far prevented the History Department from offering a course in black history.

Enthusiasm-Based Education Begun

Students at Vanderbilt have set up a free university, named the Free University of Nashville (FUN). “The rationale (of the university) is that individuals must take responsibility for their own education, a process that requires participants to define what they want to learn,” FUN's catalogue stated. “The enthusiasm is that learning is a free expression of self, a dialogue with others, and a means to a better understanding of the world,” it continued.

Black Recruiting Program Praised

Recruitment of black students by members of the Afro-American Society at Dickinson College has been “extremely pleasing” to members of the admissions staff at Dickinson. Black students go along with members of the admissions staff to high schools having a high percentage of blacks, write personal letters to black applicants, and assist in bringing black applicants for campus visits.

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, March 7

The Davidsonian Matches Prepare Bowlers

By GENE LINTON Staff Writer

Davidson's GE College Bowl Team goes into action either March 31, if Sweetbriar College beats four-time-winner Goucher, or April 8, if Goucher becomes a five-time winner. The team will know for sure this coming Sunday afternoon. Professor Charles E. Lloyd has confidence in his team of five: Charles Timmons, Robert Bryan, Sam Gwynn, Dick Anderson, and Bob Reid. Holding daily workouts, Lloyd hopes to improve the team’s quickness of response and actual knowledge in such areas as art and “familiar music,” such as Gilbert and Sullivan.

(Continued From Page 1)

...tion, and a trustee of several institutions. The dean received a Ford Faculty Fellowship for 1954. Lloyd has also set up possible drills with Queens College, Salem College, and UNCC as well as with groups of Davidson townspeople and a faculty group, including Dr. Anthony Abbott, Dr. Malcolm Partin, Dr. Hallam Walker, and Dr. Allan Wolfe, which competed with the team on Thursday during chapel period. By competing with girls, Lloyd hopes to train his team to overcome their ideas of “Ladies first” when competing in the College Bowl. Asked about his team's chances, Lloyd said that he will be “pulling hard.”

Harlow Analyzes Monkey’s Desires

By STEPHEN ROADY Staff Writer

Dr. Harry Harlow, professor of psychology at the University of Wisconsin and Piedmont University Center Visiting Lecturer, told an audience Tuesday that his studies of rhesus monkeys lead him to believe that there are five basic kinds of love. He made a study of baby monkeys, one made of cloth, the other made of wire. The babies would explore new environments if the cloth mother was present to comfort them through physical contact, but would refuse to explore the new environment if the wire mother was present, as they received no comfort or security from it.

FROLICS ENTERTAINER Lightfoot to appear here May 2.

Johnston

Zebulon Vance," 1963. He married Lucy Martin Currie of Davidson, daughter of the late Prof. Archibald Currie.

BASS CLEANERS

Canada’s Top Male Singer To Head Frolics Concerts

Gordon Lightfoot, Canada’s top-selling male singer and folk artist, will bring his 12-string guitar and battered buckskin jacket to Davidson May 2 for a Spring Frolics concert. Despite his fame and $250,000 annual income in Canada, Lightfoot until recently remained a popular figure here only in the folk underground. Recently, however, he has been pounding the night club circuit all over the United States, and at least three of his songs — “Early Morning Rain,” “Canadian Railroad Trilogy” and "For Lovin’ Me" have been hits here. The Social Council is negotiating for the entertainment for the other night of the spring dance weekend. Though billed as a folk singer, Lightfoot’s varied material exceeds the bounds often associated with the term. He weaves folk into country and mainstream pop music and comes up with a contemporary sound all his own.

Lowest Rates In Town! 24-Hr. Dry Cleaning By Request MAIN ST. Closed All Day Wednesday

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE DAVIDSON, N. C. GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTIenough to kneel down to assist sleeves. His mellow baritone has a countrified accent that, no matter where he is, seems to come from somewhere else. And most of his songs are plaints of a latter-day drifter. Lightfoot was born and got his early training in the central Ontario town of Orillia. He played drums and sang in a dance band and taught himself folk guitar. His early reputation in the United States was based on his abilities as a songwriter. Peter, Paul and Mary attained national fame singing his “For Lovin’ Me.”

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Reno Marino Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
FABULOUS DINING | International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1918 W. Morehead

FOR SATURDAY SUPPER
pick up a box or a bucket this weekend
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken.
503 S. Broad
Mooresville, N. C.

Visulite
1615 Elizabeth Ave.
Phone 664-1505

Cashion Gulf Service
Complete Auto Service

Hen Bette Movie
Morrison Room

He listed these as: Maternal love, infant love for mother, the age-mate, infant necessity for contact with the mother, peer affectional system, the heterosexual affectional system, and paternal love. Dr. Harlow said, as is shown by the fact that baby monkeys would never stop trying to make contact with real mothers who showed no affection for them.

Davidson College
Sunday, March 9
9 a.m. Wind Ensemble
10 a.m. Assembly: Love Auditorium
Davidson College Male Chorus
2 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “For Singles Only”
Tuesday, March 11
8:15 p.m. Movie: “For Singles Only” Morrison Room
Thursday, March 13
8:15 p.m. Movie: “For Singles Only” Morrison Room

Asked for a general definition of love, Dr. Harlow stated that love is “a persisting feeling of affection for one or more members of one’s social group.” Monkey mothers exhibit maternal love when they vigorously protect their young and satisfy their babies’ need for bodily contact. Dr. Harlow’s experiments with fake mothers show that infant monkeys often imitated but never duplicated real mothers. These experiments provide security based on constant contact.

Monday, March 17
5 p.m. Movie: “Our Man Flint” Morrison Room
Tuesday, March 18
9 p.m. Movie: “Our Man Flint” Morrison Room
Wednesday, March 19
4 p.m. Movie: “Our Man Flint” Morrison Room

Freshmen Win By Two In Walk And Gun Game
By MARK HODGES
Staff Writer

A team representing the freshman class defeated the Belk dormitory squad in a fifty-one-hour marathon RHC sponsored basketball game, 508-506. The squads were drawn from the entire freshman class or from Belk dormitory. There were generally a fresh number of reserves pacing the sidelines trying to get into the game. Because of the bench strength of each team, the style of play was primarily run-and-shoot with a little bit of defense thrown in on the side. There were times, however, when the bench strength of each team suddenly disappeared (like four o'clock in the morning). The same players were forced to play on and on. At these times, the offense changed considerably. One player described it as a “walk and gun.” At one time, a full team could not be put on the court. Several of the faithful stuck it out and had a two-on-two game until reinforcements arrived.

Let’s Go
Congratulations, Wildcats!
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONS
We are behind you!
All The Way!

lively luxury by the foot
75% super-soft Orlon® acrylic for its luxurious “hand”... its buoyant bulk, 25% Nylon for relatively king-size strength. Extra cushion. Now, washable/dryable, won’t shrink out of fit. One size fits most. Anklets $1.50 pair.

DANNY WHITE

Photographers:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVID WEEMS

Managing Editors:
BILL LYLE
PAT REARDON

Sports Editor:
TED HEEFNER

Advertising Manager:
RUSS MERRITT

Copy Editor:
HOWARD RAMAGEL

Circulation Managers:
GREG SCOTT
BILL FINE

News Editor:
PATE BROWN

Cartoonist:
JOHN ROWE

Assistant Managing Editors:
STEVE CROSS
ZACK MOBLEY
TERRY HIRST

Contributors this week: Tom Sinks, Bill Sherwood, John Pancake, Cecil Burney, Gene Linton, Tom Wheatley, Joe Smith, Chris Bickley, George Park, Steve Ready, John McLean, Phil Phillips, David Grissett, Robert Elliot, Don Graham, Julie Davidson, W. C. Young, and Don Parmen.

WESTERN AUTO
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 892-1495

TATE-BROWN'S
Clothing for the pace-setting Traditionalist
135 S. Tryon
Charlotte, N.C. 28202
Phone 375-2621

TATE-BROWN'S
120 S. Tryon
Charlotte, N.C. 28202
Phone 375-2621

Our 57th Year