Page Six — January 17, 1939

PHIL HAZEL
"I'm what you'd call a conservative. I see a stopping point for changes, and I will never believe that a
student body should be expected to function as administrators or administrative assistants."

PETER HOBBIE
"We're stuck with the idea we're responsible—yet we're on a system that lets us cut only a quarter of our
classes, and 'The Memoirs of Casanova' is locked up in the library."
(Staff Photos by Davidson, Weems)

The Davidsonian
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Editor-in-Chief

Tuesday’s presidential election will be a three-way race among a couple of junior senators who think and vote alike and
a 26-year-old ex-Marine with virtually no political experience. The candidates are Phil Hazel, Dan Herd, and Peter Hobbie. Both Herd
and Hobbie have had extensive exposure on the Davidson political scene; and their "me-too" campaign for the presidency, predicted for
weeks, took on a new shape Tuesday night when Hazel, untried and untested in campus political wars, took the plunge.

Hazel is a self-proclaimed "conservative" on most campus issues, while Herd and Hobbie are so-called "liberals." But on at least
one important issue—fraternities—all three stand together. Hobbie, an Independent, and Hazel, an inactive fraternity member, both favor non-exclusive eating clubs.
Herd—an active fraternity member and called by some "the court's candidate"—ranks either a local system with 100 percent bidding or
eating clubs ahead of the present social system.

On other matters, though, the three differ. On ROTC, for instance, Hobbie and Herd, who voted together on virtually every
issue in this year’s Senate, favor a voluntary program. Hazel wants ROTC required "for at least the first semester in
the freshman year."

Hobbie, a junior from Little Rock, Ark., has been

DAN HERD
"Student recruiters from here have found it hard to follow a professional recruiter from a place like Harvard. We need
one ourselves, and we should be able to make the sacrifice financially for it."

272 Take Bids: Most Ever
Freshmen this week pledged the following fraternities:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Wayne Carlton, Steve Culbertson, Robert Elliott, Zak Elrod, Ross Epley, Lee Fowlkes, Rick Fugate, Terry Hirst, Charles Heiner, Jon Jacobs,
Dan Johnston, David Jones, Chipper Jones, John Kenyon, Bill Lyte, Phil Lawrence, Jim Montgomery, Jack Moore, Doug Morton, Al Norris,
George Park, Bob Peele, Allen Rasheed, Spencer Redding, Fred Rose, Charlie Terrell, Tom Turner, Rick Van de Water, Lawrence Wilkinson,
Steve Williams, Toby Dawson.

KAPPA SIGMA
Bill Barnhill, Frank Clark, Bill Colvin, Gary Cornette, Doug Gentry, Cooper Geraty, Charlie Hinnant, Ben Lacy, Billy Mohr, Randy Parker,
David Russell, Graham Sturgis, Tommy Thompson, Paul Whetsell, Harold Wilkerson, Hal Mapes.

PHI DELTA THETA
Johnny Ribet, Stewart Rogers, Jim Roy, Steve Salyer, Barden Cooke, Mike Frye, Bernard Scoggins, Hugh Gaither, Gene Guill, Jack Hartman,
Bill Huffman, Woody Montgomery, Worth Penick, John Porter, Joe Potaat, Greg Duff, Bruce Case, Jack Scott, Bill Sherwood, Vance Simpson,
Ty Sockwell, Charlie Summers, Brian Tarr, Eddie Vint, Norwood Poland, Steve Erlandson, Jack Brown.

BETA THETA PI
Trip Adams, Whit Ayres, Steve Baldwin, Jay Ball, Cecil Burney, John Douglas, Earl Ellis, Greg Gandese, Greg Johnson, Jeff Lynn,
Bill Naylor, Tommy Richardson, Sam Robinson, Jack Thomas, Tim Swann.

KAPPA ALPHA
Bobby Allen, Frank Dana, Sammy Fisher, Joe Flournoy, Martin Hall, Sam McNair, Steve Miller, Sid Moody, Bill Powell, Tom Robert.

By ROB KREHBIEL
Staff Writer

Despite a well-organized anti-rush campaign last week, more students pledged fraternities Monday than ever before. Of 276 who went out
for rush, including 16 upperclassmen, 272 received fraternity bids. Another 19 have joined fraternities through the extended rush program. Only
nine freshmen did not participate in rush this year. Of the freshman class, over 85 percent received bids. According to
IFC President Bobby Vagt, "There was a higher percentage of pledges than last year."

In the Tuesday chapel before rush began, SGA President Joe Murphy urged the freshmen to look carefully at the fraternity
system. He gave one after-rush party to let freshmen meet the inactives and Independents. On Sunday he sent a letter
to all freshmen urging them to become social affiliates in the fraternities. Also, the Independents published a letter each day
of rush. Vagt said that "rush had a more serious tone. A lot more serious questions were asked than in
previous years." Murphy said it was "too early to tell" the effects of his anti-fraternity movement. He said he was
not surprised at the large number of freshmen who joined fraternities. A letter from Vagt praising Murphy and the Independents
appears on Page 2.

Pinckey McIlwain, Ray Mendenhall, Grier Newlin, Gary Scibal, Billy Stagg, Raymond Swetenburg, Tom Vandiver, Terry Woodlief, Allen Woodward, Chuck Sparks,
Jody Turner.

PI KAPPA PHI
John Barbee, George Draughon, Hank Drews, Charlie Knighton, Adrian Long, Zak Mobley, Rodney Moore, Pat Reardon, Bob Wallace, Julian Quattlebaum.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Stephen Battle, Paul Cameron, Roy Campbell, Armfield Cannon, Howard Daniel, Stephen Draper, David Faison, Nick Livengood, Charles Pope, Curtis Smith,
Jim Smith, Bill Watson, Steve Wilhelm, Joe Yochem.

SIGMA CHI
Bryan Adrian, Howard Boyd, Joe Delk, Phillip Dotts, Bill Git, Jim Glennon, Tim Groom, Richard Hinson, John Lambeth, Jack Latimer,
Bill Lean, Dick LeVan, Stuart McCracken, Kelly McKee, Mark Meza, Rick Michaels, Bruce Moore, Paul Nelson, Mike O'Malley, Jim Parish,
Chip Price, Howard Ramagli, Bob Randall, Tommy Ross, Will Ryan, Mike Simpson, Russ Vander Baan, Richard Waino, Allen Lundy, Adam
Robinson.

SIGMA NU
Bob Bisanar, Richard Bush, Ronnie Crockett, John Cutchin, Sam Hay, Danny Jordan, Scott Keeter, Walter McAlhaney, Bob Morey, Jim Philips,
Tom Ratcliffe, Paul Riner, David Scarborough, Chris Sikes, Frank Soos, Beecher Wood.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Flip Baldwin, Bill Beckmann, John Bowles, Robert Brice, John Carlson, Danny Clodfelter, Larry Crowell, John Davidson, David Dixon, Kurt Geisinger,
Robin Gray, David Grissett, Sonny Hemming, Mark Hodges, Mike Hyrne, Mike Johnson, Phil Leonard, John McLean, Russ Merritt, Greg Mitchell,
Paul Peteet, Wilson Seymour, Bill Spencer, Rick Stansbury, Buzz Tarver, Ty Tippett, Fred Wilson, Leslie Ross.

Hobbie is counting on four voting groups to carry him to victory on Tuesday: the Independents, because he is one;
the freshman class, with whom he eats in Union cafeteria; the junior class, which he led in last year’s voting;
and scattered support from fraternity members. Herd will be counting on the support of fraternity men, despite his stand for
an alternative social system. He can also expect considerable support from freshmen, since he is a hall counselor, and from
his own class. "My votes," Hazel says, "will come from the people who know all three of us. I feel—and
think others feel—that I am more capable of accomplishing what I set out to do."

HAZEL
"Compared to everybody else on this campus," Hazel says, "I'm what you'd call a conservative." "I see a stopping-point for
changes, and I will never believe that a student body singly or collectively can be expected or should be expected
to function as administrators or administrative assistants."

Hazel’s platform centers around his division of the college community into "three separate but constantly commingled groups":
—Students and faculty: "they are both here to educate and get educated."
—Administration: "Its job is to establish and plan and improve the environment."
—Trustees: who "ultimately decide what typesof policies will be acceptable for the college community.” “Those are the groups,” Hazel says.
“What we need to do is to clearly define the roles they play, and to make each group realize its
primary responsibility.” For the student-faculty group, for instance, there should be a bigger voice in who “gets to join the
college community,” Hazel says. Therefore, he proposes to work for: student-faculty responsibility in the hiring and firing of faculty members;
student representation on the Admission Committee and the trustees; and greater student participation in student recruiting.

About the organization of student government here, Hazel says: “I’ll be perfectly honest with you—I don’t know how many senators
we've got right now.” “I love it here, and it’s absolutely beyond me how students can come here and for
four years agitate for change. I'm for change—don’t get me wrong. I just believe that students have neither the time
nor the ability nor the training nor the desire to be as good as the people they're always bitching about,
like Dean Burts.”

HERD

The number one priority in Herd’s platform is in admissions policy. “We need more diversity,” he says, “but not at
the risk of ruining our academic standards.” Herd would do two things to boost diversity here—The Candidates And The Issues-1969.
The 1969 election is crucial. The next student president will have to face a student government long marked by inertia;
an electorate noted most for its apathy where drinking is not concerned; a multiplicity of student organizations determined that the
student government shall not meddle in their affairs; a college administration attentive to students but seemingly bent on getting its
way in the end; an all-too-often suspicious faculty; and, of course, a critical DAVIDSONIAN. The presidency will require time, at
least twice as much as the president can possibly give. It will take political savvy, to the furthest limits that
that quality is known on this campus. And it will take courage, a trait as scarce as women on the
campus and needed as badly. With these things in mind, THE DAVIDSONIAN presents The Candidates and The Issues—1969.

...hire a professional recruiter and expand the student recruiting program, “if that’s feasible.” “Students recruiting from here have found it
hard to follow a professional recruiter from a place like Harvard. We need one ourselves, and we should be able
to make the sacrifice financially for it.” Two original planks in Herd’s platform call for a cabinet to include virtually
all the student body’s leaders and a “campus confrontation committee” to organize seminars and speaker programs. The cabinet—“I call it
my ‘think-tank’”—would be designed to unify student leadership in an effort to pool ideas and get something done. Theoretically, the
cabinet might include leaders such as the chairman of the Social Council, a representative of the Five-Year Plan Committee, editor
of THE DAVIDSONIAN and others. In addition, among other planks, Herd is calling for:

—A juiced-up Senate Executive Committee. “It has been virtually neglected this year, and it should be used.”
—More money for the student exchange program. “The reason it’s been hurting is the lack of funds. We can get
the money if we submit the budget requests early enough and make the demands.”
—Expansion of the role of student government.

HOBBIE

Hobbie’s platform doesn’t dip down into a lot of specifics because “I don’t think it’s a good idea to list
point after point after point. When you do that, I think you lose sight of what student government’s supposed to
be.” Instead, Hobbie offers a platform of two main areas—a better organized and utilized government structure and a proper interpretation
of the Code of Responsibility. “All our good work in the Senate this year has been hampered by a lack
of organization,” Hobbie says, “and it’s due mainly to the newness of the constitution. Student government can be run more
smoothly.” The Code, he says, offers the best avenue to reform. “If it’s pushed far enough, the idea of responsibility
can be used in itself. I like the phrase ‘responsibility leads to reform.’ “Right now we're stuck with the idea
that we're responsible—yet we’re on the system that lets us cut only a quarter of our classes and ‘The Memoirs
of Casanova’ is locked up in the library.”

Although Hobbie’s platform does not deal in specifics to any large extent, he has definite ideas nonetheless. For instance, “you
get the feeling that the admissions program is doing nothing more than filling a quota of Negro students. Three seems
to be the number.” And on the matter of the campus social system, he says he would like “to get
all 12 fraternity presidents together to ‘talk local.’ There is a place for student government among the fraternity presidents, and
any change in the system should come from within, not from the administration.”

Church And College (Continued From Page 1)

son from the church. William F. Mulliss, a Charlotte lawyer and a trustee elected by the Mecklenburg Presbytery, refused to
comment on any question concerning Davidson and the church. He said “it would be premature to give any opinion" until
after the trustee-faculty-student commission on Church Relationship makes its report. Harllee Branch Jr. of Atlanta, a trustee elected by the
Alumni Association and chairman of the trustee Committee on Campus and Social Life, was asked if he felt that the
ministers serving on the board were the most liberal members. “I have not detected at any time nor on any
question an attitude that characterizes the ministers," Branch said. The board cannot be split up and down any lines of
profession or vocation, he said. Asked to comment on the college’s Self-Study Report recommendation that the Board of Trustees be
reduced to about half of its present size, Branch said: “There is no magic in numbers—it can be too small
or too large. I have no opinion as to what is the ideal size board.” He pointed out that alumni
have not demanded a larger voice in running the college. When told that the church directly contributed about $80,000 a
year to the college, and asked for his comments on the disproportionate number of trustees elected in relation to the
amount, Branch said that no church-related school receives a large sum from the institutional church. But it would be impossible
to say how much money is given to Davidson simply because it is either a Presbyterian or church-related school. Charles
F. Myers Jr. of Greensboro, a trustee elected by Orange Presbytery and chairman of the trustee Committee on Finance, said
he had no particular comment on the recommendation to reduce the size of the board. He said, “The smaller the
group, the better the action,” but pointed out the advantage of a larger group for public relations and communication. He
said that he had found the ministers currently serving on the board “extremely flexible and liberal” when dealing with questions
relating to Davidson and its students, particularly in dealing with questions of social change on campus like the Code of
Responsibility. He pointed out that the President's Office does make recommendations to each presbytery as to the type of men
it would prefer to be elected to the board. Asked if he would ever vote to sever the ties of
the college and the church, Myers said that he would do so if the situation ever arose in which he
felt that the church was placing “unfair and unrealistic pressure on the college.” The Rev. Albert B. McClure of Statesville,
a presbytery trustee and member of the Commission on Church Relationship, said that there was no stipulation that trustee representation
be commensurate with dollar contributions. When asked about the $80,000 figure, McClure said that Davidson's relationship with the church was
“not by any sense a balance sheet.”

Co-editors Take Stand

“Print the news and raise hell” has been the unprinted motto of THE DAVIDSONIAN throughout recent years, and this motto,
combined with a certain spirit of professionalism among the staff, has produced an excellent newspaper, one which has earned 13
straight All-American awards. But that’s not enough. Davidson's slow, deliberate movement into the 20th century is going to require that
the newspaper add both depth and breadth to its coverage. As the radio station takes over the function of providing
immediacy, THE DAVIDSONIAN will be released and allowed to shift some emphasis from straight factual reporting to insight articles and
depth coverage, but always maintaining a careful accuracy and fairness. Also, the scope of the newspaper should be expanded to
include student-related news from outside Davidson. THE DAVIDSONIAN has long been extremely cautious not to compromise its editorial independence, but
it has missed opportunities to add to the effect of its own editorials by joining forces with the student government.
Therefore, although we explicitly reserve and intend to exercise our right to criticize the student government and Senate as we
see fit, we will strive for more coordination of effort in areas of agreement. Complaints over haphazard circulation mounted steadily
throughout the last term, until new circulation managers were appointed at the start of the present term. We will not
let the situation return to its state of last term: THE DAVIDSONIAN will be out and mailed on time every
week. Since the quality of any newspaper is dependent on the qualifications and abilities of its writers, we will try
to make available to as many staff members as possible summer internships on professional newspapers.

OPEN HOUSE

These houses will be open Sunday night at 8:
H. Alden Bryan 7 Jackson Court
Thomas F. Clark Grey Road
J. A. McGeachy 309 Pinecrest
Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. 408 N. Main
Locke White, Jr. 203 Lorimer
W. G. Workman 209 Lorimer
