The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS
Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, NC, 28036.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON
Editors-in-Chief

JACK WELLMAN
Business Manager

PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1969

A Term Wasted

In his informal talk at Monday's Open End, Joe Martin, assistant to the dean at Duke University, raised a point which has sparked much discussion at almost every campus in the country — the gap between the student and the policy makers. Martin spoke of the Duke Board of Trustees. At the University of Virginia, it's the state Board of Visitors. Albert Haas speaks of “the biggies.” In each case, the gap is similar.

In commenting on the plight of the Negro student at Duke, Martin said that the problem of understanding the actions of the trustees is not just a Negro problem, but one for all students. He said quite frankly that when Duke’s trustees meet this weekend, whatever decisions they make or policies they set, there will be a lack of credibility among students as a result. The reason for such a lack of trust or understanding on the part of the students, he said, is simple. It is because the Board of Trustees meets behind closed doors. It is because the policy makers act on the advice of advisers whom students never hear, on the motivation of information the students never see. Until the solution of the problem is found, the gap will continue, he said.

Vanderbilt University found what now appears to be the solution when the trustees there created last month a student position on the board. Chosen each year from the rising Senior Class, that student will be able to communicate more effectively with trustees than ever before. And perhaps a mutual understanding will evolve out of this spirit of responsibility and two-way interest.

Davidson has done well in the last two years in the opening of communication lines between students and trustees. The opening discussions and coffee hours have proved to be profitable and enlightening for both groups, and the board has often expressed its gratitude for the opportunity to sound out student opinion and ideas. Indeed, Davidson has been fortunate in this respect. But let us not stop here. A student position on the Board of Trustees is not at all unfeasible, and it certainly would help strengthen the growing credibility of students in regard to the action behind the closed doors.

Consistent Inconsistency

The assembly speaker is to talk about black power, then explain it in a question and answer period. And who cuts assembly for a morning coffee break? The chairman of the Commission on Extra-Campus Responsibilities. This is Davidson.

“Life at Davidson is so planned that it is essentially democratic...” says the catalogue. Thus the Dean's Council works in secret to decree the rules by which students will live, and the student government railroads referendums and packs the Senate. This is Davidson.

Those who play football well get a $2,500 scholarship. Those who play the trumpet well, or write well, or serve in student government get nothing. This is Davidson.

One faculty member with a bachelor's degree is only an assistant professor because he lacks a doctorate. Another holds a full professorship because the Pentagon appointed him. He also has a bachelor's degree. This is Davidson.

A marathon basketball game is arranged to stir up student support for the Southern Conference tournament. And the spectators at the tournament still are sparse. This is Davidson.

Bitter? Maybe so, although we usually try to hide it. But it really is hard to get excited when such inconsistencies leave one's life in college nothing more than a marathon without a goal.

Closing The Gap

The issue of the cut system at Davidson came into question again this week in the case of a freshman whose recurring illnesses are going to force him to overcut two classes... and thus fail. In this particular case, the freshman has been forced to miss over two weeks of classes over the period of the 10-week term. In one course he is having academic problems, but in the other two he is carrying a grade of “B.” Because of the quarter cut system, he will probably fail all three. For while the present system allows a student to make up a review missed because of illness, it makes no provision for “excused” absences. In cases in which the student can manage to maintain his level of achievement in spite of forced absences, the system becomes an often unjustified punishment.

The plight of this freshman is not an isolated case, and for this reason the class-cut system needs a thorough re-evaluation. The ideal arrangement would be an unlimited cut policy, but then such a policy is hinged on student maturity and responsibility — something which someone in authority has decided is nonexistent at Davidson. So the alternative proposal, to be utilized until the aforesaid responsibility comes to the Davidson student, would be one of “excused” absences, at least for illness and college-sponsored events. Such a set-up would not give students “something for nothing,” but it would guarantee protection against “nothing for something.”

"Who's In Charge Here?"

NOMINATING

THERE IS STRENGTH

Boss Tweed: As long as I count the votes, what are you going to do about it?

Sam Cockrill: Faculty-Student Rift Being Exaggerated

To The Editor:

To quote last week's DAVIDSONIAN concerning the Dean's Council, “there exists an already wide split between faculty and students, a division which leads at worst to a Columbia and at best shoves the educational process.” True, such a split, if it were to exist, might lead to another Columbia, but it seems to me ridiculous to even suggest that such a situation could arise at Davidson.

The vast majority of Davidson students feel no sort of real antagonism toward or alienation from the faculty, except for those small frustrations caused by daily academic disagreements. It seems that the only split between faculty and students occurs when either side tries to put aside their tasks and make a real effort to understand the other. While often at odds, student leaders and faculty members can overcome the gap of faculty-student communication. If the split were as great as it is portrayed, it would be impossible to find common ground.

Students on this campus often let professors become their personal friends; there may be disagreements, but these in no way create a wide rift without a sense of compromise. In fact, I would go so far as to say only the irresponsible rantings of those serving relatively selfish ends could widen such ordinary disagreements into a more serious and perhaps forceful rift, which leads rather naturally to another point. That the much-vaunted responsibility of the Davidson student is in reality only so much talk is proven in mass...

MALOY: NO ACCEPTANCE AS A MAN

On The Black Hero

By KENNETH DENLINGER
Washington Post Staff Writer
(Reprinted with permission from The Washington Post.)

For Mike Maloy, it was a scene he had played before. As usual, Maloy and his Davidson teammates had lost impressively in the Southern Conference basketball tournament. And Maloy was the main object of the typical pat-on-the-back show of affection in Charlotte Coliseum, where Davidson plays many of its tournament games.

First came the kids, an inventive bunch who managed to outmaneuver the cops and jam a narrow corridor outside the dressing room, screaming for him to write Mike Maloy on ticket stubs and scraps of paper. The second wave pressed forward as Maloy and his young pursuers emerged from behind a section of bleachers. Patiently, he signed more souvenirs, including a caricature of himself that emphasized his curly hair and tired, expressive face, which seemed to have been constructed around no smile.

Later, in an unoccupied section of seats far from courtside, perhaps the only reason, his private place in the massive structure, Maloy reflected on how it is to be a black hero in the South.

“My only complaint is that I’m treated too well here,” he said. “You see it, everybody wants to obtain my autograph and tell me how good I am, because I can play basketball. But they don’t accept me as a man. What they’re saying is ‘Mike, you’re an acceptable nigger,’ and that’s the last thing I want to be.”

It is this attitude, Maloy said, that draws him “toward the brothers” in the black community of Davidson, where he spends most of his spare time “trying to tell my black brothers to seek their own identity.”

“That’s where I’d rather be,” Maloy said. “Some people tell me not to associate with them. But to my mind, I entertain these people. Go to hell.”

On the basketball court, there is no identity problem for Maloy. His quickness and rebounding ability are uncommon for a player 6-4 or 6-5. Against Virginia Military Institute in the first round of the tournament, Maloy suddenly found himself back in a Davidson fast break. Moving easily down court, Maloy looked around and motioned for the rest of the team to catch up. Nobody did, so he sped down the left side of the foul lane, leaped high above a smaller defender and gently banked the ball off the backboard and into the basket.

Another time he was open for an easy layup. But, instead of shooting, he whipped the ball behind his back past a defender to Doug Cook, who put up an even easier shot.

But there have been embarrassing moments for Maloy. Like the time when he was a step ahead of a defender on a fast break and, incredibly, missed the layup.

Gradually, it seems, Maloy is becoming nearly as aggressive in his off-court activities as he is around the basket. “I guess I’m up there near militant,” he said. “I can’t be a moderate like Martin Luther King.”

Martin's last truth by numerous examples. Davidson students are really...children, and child-like they play games. Unfortunately, THE DAVIDSONIAN seems to be playing for keeps. There is no risk; there is no division. There is nothing but what THE DAVIDSONIAN chooses to find. Is it possible that we have reared up among ourselves the specter of a yellow press intent on printing the spectacular, the “newsworthy”? Or perhaps we have an investigator who finds only what he looks for? Less probably, we have an organization which stirs up trouble for trouble's sake. But, of course, all of these possibilities are far from the truth, I would hope. Nevertheless, it is more than ill-advised, it is rashly irresponsible to say that there is a problem where none exists, and for that matter never had existed. It is ironic that a newspaper so dedicated to the praise of the maturity of the Davidson student could make such groundless and unguarded statements. If, in effect, the Dean's Council does exist contrary to the rules of the faculty, undoubtedly the faculty will take steps to relieve the abuse. Likewise, they would do so even if they had not been threatened from the editorial page of this newspaper.

William G. Cochran '70
Davidson College

CAB Reviews Decision; Youth Fares Still Valid

The response to abundant mail from students protesting the proposed removal of youth fare status from all airlines until a more thorough study can be made. A spokesman for the CAB said that the delay is a direct result of more than 500 letters a day from students protesting the proposed repeal of the fare. All correspondence, he said, will be included in the CAB docket when the case comes up for study by the board. The original recommendation was made following protests by bus companies that the youth fare plan was discriminatory to persons over the age of 21. The spokesman said that youth fares will continue to exist until the board meets, probably within the next month.

Percival’s Uncle “Wart Remover”
By David Sweatt

Christianizing The Commitment

Fatherson, N.C. (AP) Fatherson College officials announced here today that despite student protest, Professor Emerson Susej will not be asked to remain on the faculty at this small, Presbyterian college for men. “This is a Christian college,” said one source close to the president, “Our Christian commitment, as we call it, does not allow us to have on our faculty a man who does not profess to be a Christian. We have a tradition to uphold.” It is just that tradition that students protesting the move contend is in need of re-examination. “What are we educating people for here?” asked one student. “This ‘priceless heritage’ we're supposed to possess— does that include all the things that have gone with ‘Christianity’ or just the good things?” “How did this college educate men in the past?” interrupted a second student, “What was it saying, what were its graduates doing during slavery? Were they the same xenophobes most of their contemporaries were? What were they saying after the so-called ‘redemption’ of the South by white Southerners when all the Jim Crow laws were passed and lynch law began to take its vengeance? We know that they were nice to their children and didn't beat their wives, but if that's all the ‘Christian commitment’ of this college has done for its graduates in the past we're not sure it’s something we want to be obligated to.” In a meeting with irate students last week, an administration spokesman was quoted as asking students to “leave him out of this!” when the students asked what he thought Jesus would have to say about the dismissal. “We're not talking about such things,” repeated the spokesman several times, sending a wave of murmuring around the room, “We're concerned with what our rules say we are. Furthermore, our rules provide us with explicit guidelines on how to be a Christian college. No, I haven't consulted the New Testament but I know for a fact that not one of you has even looked at the trustees’ 1859 regulation on hiring only Christians as faculty members.” Students claim to be somewhat confused. Upperclassmen at the school were all required to take a New Testament Bible course as freshmen. The course has since been dropped as a requirement — the reason being, many students feel, that the content of the course was not in concert with what the trustees envision as ‘Christian’. Students say that still more confusion arose from the fact that students were first required to take the course, then told that what they learned in it was irrelevant to the considerations of a Christian college. Activism on the Fatherson campus has not yet reached the intensity of violence experienced recently at nearby Duke University, but administration officials are vigilantly watching for a rumored takeover of the college chaplain's office. Top officials have been tight-lipped about possible disciplinary action in the event of such an action on the part of students, but a statement of policy released by the administration last November said that “immediate suspension” from the college would be “fully warranted” for any student “who disrupts in any way the normal processes or activities of any part of the college.” Sources close to students alleged to be plotting the office takeover say that the plotters are gathering frequently in secret meetings trying to think of a way to convince the trustees to adopt a higher standard than the present one. So far they have received no answer from the trustees. One student, who asked not to be identified, said that he did not think students could be suspended for interfering with the ‘normal processes’ of the college, since the so-called “in loco Christus” rule could certainly not be regarded as normal. “If that’s ‘normal’,” concluded the student, “then so was Roman persecution of the Christians.”

PC Evaluates Coeducation

To The Editor:

Having kept up with Davidson's ‘Controversy On Coeducation’ through the pages of THE DAVIDSONIAN, we believe that David Sweatt should be commended for the items expressed in his column of February 3. THE DAVIDSONIAN in its previous issues had done a good job in presenting the arguments for coeducation, which are, after all, quite obvious. Mr. Sweatt pointed out some considerations which should be taken to heart before any final student recommendation is made concerning the possibilities of coeducation at Davidson. It is our personal opinion that Presbyterian College's decision to become fully coeducational in the fall of this year is, at best, untimely. At a time when any small college has difficulty in maintaining funds for a strong curriculum and improving physical plant, much of PC's capital during the past five years has been spent on a new girls' dormitory, the remodeling of a men's dorm to take its overflow, and the transformation of a former dining hall into a physical education facility for women. Coeds do not bring with them a rosy Utopia— in fact their dorm is widely known as “The Cow Palace.” There are still too many dates on dance weekends, and the regular trail to neighboring women's colleges is far from a thing of the past. Perhaps your experience with coeducation (if it comes) will be more successful than PC's. At any rate, look before you leap.

Tom Cain, Editor
Rush Grey, Past Editor
The Blue Stocking
Presbyterian College

Salyer Hits Area Exams

To The Editor:

John W. Gardner, present head of The Urban Coalition and former secretary of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare under President Kennedy, wrote a book in 1963 called “Self-Renewal: The Individual and the Innovative Society.” Evidently, either those who designed area examinations have not read and thoroughly digested Gardner’s book or else do not acknowledge the validity of his observations concerning the educational process. May the freshmen take the judge from the following excerpt from the book:

“Much education is monumentally ineffective. All too often we are giving our young people cut flowers when we should be teaching them to grow their own plants. We are stuffing their heads with the products of earlier innovation rather than teaching them to innovate. We think of the mind as a storehouse to be filled when we should be thinking of it as an instrument to be used. We are moving away from teaching things that readily become outmoded, and toward habits of mind that will have the greatest long-term effect on the young person’s capability to understand and perform. Increasing emphasis is being given to instruction in methods of analysis and modes of attack on problems. In all subjects it means teaching habits of mind that will be useful in new situations — curiosity, open-mindedness, objectivity, respect for evidence and the tenacity to think critically.”

We were told by Blue Sky that it was impossible to master education. That is, today the body of knowledge could not be learned that would give one claim to the term ‘educated’. Instead, one was to learn that education was the process of learning how to learn. But is this consistent with the voluminous reading lists and worthless exam questions we now face? Look at some simple exams, better still, take one. Four hundred hours of cramming, anyone?

Steve Salyer '72
Davidson College