Up ’n’ Coming

Friday, October 24
8:03 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Gambit”

Saturday, October 25
8 a.m. Graduate Record Exams Chambers, Basement
10:30 a.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. The Citadel, Charleston, S.C.
2 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. The Citadel, Charleston, S.C.
8:03 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Gambit”

Monday, October 27
3 p.m. Freshman Football: Davidson vs. W. Carolina, Here
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Birth of a Nation” Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Open End: Richard C. Burts Jr. on the Code of Responsibility, Union Lobby

Tuesday, October 28
10 a.m. Movie: “Don Quixote” Love Auditorium
3 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. St. Andrews, Here
4 p.m. Cross Country: Here

Wednesday, October 29
10 a.m. Around the World in 80 Cups of Coffee: Pembroke, Forest Chambers, High Point, and Wake Morrison Room
3:03 p.m. Movie: “The End of August at the Hotel Ozone” Love Auditorium
8:03 p.m. Movie: “The End of August at the Hotel Ozone” Love Auditorium

Thursday, October 30
3:03 p.m. Movie: “The End of August at the Hotel Ozone” Love Auditorium
8:03 p.m. Movie: “The End of August at the Hotel Ozone” Love Auditorium

By STEVE CROSS
Asst. Copy Editor

“If we can land a man on the moon, why can't we solve some of our earth-bound social problems?” According to the noted behavioral psychologist B. F. Skinner, we cannot because we lack the necessary understanding of human behavior. Dr. Skinner, a psychology professor at Harvard University, spoke at the Queens College Fall Convocation Monday at 10 a.m. in E. H. Little Fine Arts Center.

Skinner maintains that behavior science must get away from the emphasis on inner essences which used to characterize the biological and physical sciences. He noted that Newton rejected that in discovering gravity, instead of emphasizing Aristotle’s speculation that objects fall because of an innate desire to reach their resting place. Instead of emphasizing intangible qualities like the “warped personality” of a juvenile delinquent, for instance, Skinner feels that the student of behavior should be concerned with the things which have happened to an individual. These are what cause him to act the way he does.

In discussing the concept of freedom, Skinner claimed that a person cannot be said to be free if his actions are dictated by biological needs, such as hunger. By inventing agriculture, making clothing, and building houses, he says, man has sought to free himself from hunger and cold. What Skinner called “the literature of freedom” is designed to point out the oppressor and prescribe the method by which he can be overthrown. But the literature of freedom has never dealt adequately, Skinner said, with those who control through volition by offering positive incentives. Instead, he added, writers have fallen into the trap of assuming all control is bad. Skinner takes exception to this. “Some forms of control we should accept,” he says.

In our society, the concept of dignity hinges on the giving of credit, Skinner said. However, we do admire people for living up to codes of honor, which Skinner said give us reasons to do one thing even though there are quite obvious reasons to do something else. He cited vows of celibacy as an example.

Financial Aid To Meet Need Despite High College Costs
By NEILL COGHILL
Staff Writer

Davidson College will continue its policy of guaranteeing financial aid equal to the student's need despite some speculation to the contrary from less affluent families. This is important to get students enrolled. Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White has expressed some doubt as to how long the money available can keep up with rising costs of education. However, the funds appropriated for financial assistance will not be reduced in the future; rising expenses might just outpace them. Davidson College is one of a very few institutions that can still make that guarantee, and White seemed concerned that it might not continue.

Rise To DMS
By BILL MAYFIELD
Staff Writer

Tuesday night, Charles Morrison Grier, an architect from Charlotte, spoke to an audience of 30 on the subject of prison architecture. Grier, designer of the radically new Western Correctional Institute in Morganton, emphasized the need for prison reforms in North Carolina and the steps being taken to implement these reforms in a working, productive plan. He called this concept “rehabilitation in a true sense of the word.”

Grier designed the first high-rise prison in the world to serve as a complete community for the inmates. The facilities include a hospital, a gymnasium, a barbershop, a library, and a school. Unique features, such as wild roses growing along the outside fence to prevent escapes, and single occupant cells to reduce homosexuality, reflect the innovativeness of Grier’s design. He hopes that the new design will aid the establishment of a new prison system, where the prisons will serve as rehabilitation centers, not as in the past, centers for punishment. By using slides, Grier showed the audience the prison’s basic design and features.

The Davidson College Film Committee, in association with the New Corporation, will present a film program this year. The program will consist of a full-length movie plus two or three short subjects. Program One, featuring “The End of August at the Hotel Ozone,” will be shown October 29 and 30. Program Two, featuring “The Virgin President,” will be shown January 14 and 15. Program Three includes “Martyrs of Western Auto.”

Main St. — Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

Also selected were Nelson D. Abell III, Sterling H. Abernathy II, Emerson L. Bell, John S. Bryant, John R. Carter, William G. Cockrill, Kenneth S. Crews, and Arthur J. Crumbley III. Others receiving the honor were Terry J. Esterkamp, David A. Fisher, William H. Gammon, Harry T. Goldman III, George M. Hannen, Thomas E. Hendren, Daniel W. Herd, and Kenneth F. Hill. Gerald F. Kroll, John G. Lientz, Samuel E. McNeely, Leon S. Newman Jr., James B. Puckett, Charles M. Sherrill, Gary R. Sigmon, Wray M. Stephens, William D. Sweatt, and Daniel By White.FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON: CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Prison Architect Describes High-Rise Prison Concept

The story building, which will cost $4,700,000, has several advantages over the building complexes. Not only will it provide better facilities for the prisoner, but security will be greater and the cost of maintenance will be lower.

Begins Series

The Witch of Vali, which begins on March 4 and 5, features a story about...

Skinner Calls For Modern Science Of Man’s Conduct

In his novel ‘Walden Two,’ the blueprint for a utopian community where all goods are shared in common, Skinner said that a society could be constructed where men would naturally do good because they would never want to do otherwise. He remarked that in such a society no one would resist its evil because they would never want to do evil. Skinner concluded that before we can have a technology of behavior, we must bring the science of behavior into line with the physical and biological sciences by doing away with “internal essences.”

KID THOMAS

Jazz trumpeter of the Preservation Hall Jazz Band, New Orleans, will appear in a Homecoming concert. See story, page six.

‘Abbey Road’ Presents Beatles In Finest Performance To Date

A REVIEW BY ASHTON TRICE

‘Abbey Road’ is a hard record to contend with. You put it on the first band, and you're in Beatles’ world. And you stay up there for the whole album. You almost hope that a not-so-good song will come along so that you can have time to assimilate what you've already heard. This record is the Beatles at their finest: Lennon's lyrics are exceptionally good in “Come Together” and the title of the second side. McCartney does not fail to create exciting melodies and, believe it or not, Ringo drums very, very well. He even goes as far as to do a short solo, which you should listen to with earphones. Harrison once again establishes himself as one of the finest and most versatile musicians.

The second side is a unit. Maybe it’s about the Aquarian Age, maybe it’s about love, about peace, or about happiness. Anyway, it's a hopeful, joyful piece of music. The themes are musically (subdividing the 4/4 beat, certain harmonies, and melodic turns) and poetically (sunshine, impending happiness, love) expressed. “Because,” which is excitingly orchestrated with functions as a chorus, takes us outside to contemplate what nature is. Following this tempter, we come inside and think about money matters with “You Never Give Me Your Money.” Why, they ask, do we have to bother with such triviality when there’s magic around (like this music)? OK, today we'll do it, but there's hope that soon we can get away.

The next set is a mixture of a lullaby tinged with tragedy, a reprise of an earlier song, blending into the final statement that life’s what you put into it, “The End,” a hard rock song in which Harrison and Lennon display their virtuosity. The record ends with a ditty, as if to say, “We’re putting you on,” but it’s really the only put-on on the whole album.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS

Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Phone 892-2111 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Films for a New Audience

NEW LINE CINEMA

From Filmmakers in Prague, New York, Copenhagen, Paris, and Stockholm. Prize-winning new features and shorts by professionals of the Film Generation in an exciting four-program series. Some of the films: THE VIRGIN PRESIDENT, VALI, WITCH OF POSITANO, MARTYRS OF LOVE, HOMO LUDENS, IMAGE BRUMMERS, FLORA, SHADOW OF AN APPLE.

This program in the series, “New Films for the New Audience,” presents an outstanding new feature-length film plus short subjects from the Film Generation, containing provoking concepts and questions that focus on the world of today and tomorrow.

THE END OF AUGUST AT THE HOTEL OZONE (Czech): “A shattering slice of life after the Third World War.” — Time Magazine. “A gripping, frightening horror story of the ultimate brutalization of humanity after most of the world has blown itself up.” — Newsday. Plus: SUMMER WAR (Denmark) and DODGE CITY (U.S.A.)

October 29 & 30, Love Auditorium, 3:03 & 8:03
Tickets at The Union (Oct. 27) and at the door
$1.00 per program, $3.50 series (4 programs)

The Better Mousetrap

If you want something more than just a stereo console, and something less than a houseful of electronic equipment, see the KLH* Model Twenty-Four. The Model Twenty-Four is a complete stereo music system that plays records, FM broadcasts, AM too if you wish, plus anything (such as a tape recorder) you care to plug into it. Instead of looking like a Victorian hope chest or an electrician’s nightmare, it comes in three compact and unobtrusive walnut cabinets that slip gracefully into a living room. It won’t take up much of your valuable living space, and it doesn’t take a pilot’s license to operate. But what sets it even further apart from other stereo equipment is the level of performance it delivers. It sounds—believe us—like twice the price. That's why it’s the best-selling, most-talked-about stereo system on the market. Ask anyone who owns KLH stereo equipment about its performance and value. Then seek out the Model Twenty-Four and judge it critically for yourself. You won’t have trouble finding one in a store. Just follow that well-beaten path. $299.95

TREND STEREO CENTER
900 So. Kings Dr. Charlotte, N.C.
Open 9 to 9 Daily
“A TRADEMARK OF KLH RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CORP.”