The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON, Editors-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N.C. Address correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1969

A Wise Move

The trustee decision to abolish compulsory ROTC deserves praise. It has shown an openness and responsiveness in the board that,
frankly, many students did not see there. By reopening a previously closed case, reconsidering the information in the light of
changing times and changing implications, and finally, reversing their decision of last year, they have shown a commendable willingness to
deal with the problems of the college in the present tense.

The decision itself, though, could hardly be avoided. For those who had argued that ROTC must remain compulsory to exist,
Dr. Sandy McKelway answered the question Thursday night with some of the evidence faculty members had gathered. The faculty’s evidence,
he said, showed “rather conclusively” that ROTC would continue to stick around. The ethical argument was telling in Thursday night's
discussion. Time after time, the question came back to whether it was right to force someone else to accept military
training against his will, even with his parents’ consent. And the trustees rightly decided that it wasn’t.

And the junior who said all students are too immature to be permitted to decide for themselves? It is these
same 18-year-olds that can be trusted with jobs on which other lives depend in Vietnam. As another student made clear,
for all that parents and freshmen know about ROTC before they arrive, they might as well flip a coin as
to whether to enroll. The lack of information was enforced immaturity for both parents and freshmen. Thus, the trustees followed
the weight of the evidence and decided the case in accordance with the facts and the purpose of the college.
If the openness and responsiveness continue, it may be a new era for Davidson, especially as commission reports come in
and the Academy for Educational Development reports its findings. The trustees have done their job well. We look forward to
the next few years with expectation.

Don't Forget To Leap

As the commissions conclude their studies and the Academy for Educational Development readies its report, it is worthy of note
that this is the college’s third try at reforming itself. First was the self-study report of several years ago. The
recommendations of the report were numerous, but the visiting committee from Davidson's accrediting agency was unhappily accurate when it termed
the recommendations dull and unimaginative. So the school tried again with the Blue Sky program. That too has been more
myth than reality so far. The program was adopted in its entirety except for two parts, the two which offered
some measure of real reform but were controversial: voluntary ROTC and abolition of fraternities.

The Honors College will be restricted to a few top-notch scholars, but good grades don’t mean a person gets educated.
What of the other students who come here? They get left on the outside as a selected few get Davidson's
best. Non-Western studies offer no major, and thus reassert the “natural superiority” of the Western Way of Life. The much-talked-about
area exams and 3-3-2 program have turned out to be just the old system under the new name, where course
credits replace semester hours.

One AED representative who was here recently talked in terms of a quantum jump. He said Davidson had been gradually
improving for a long time, but that at some point it would have to jump a fence, so to speak,
and get on the other side. He was right. If Davidson doesn’t do it on the third try, energy for
the fourth may not be there. The move must be made, and it must be effective. It cannot be the
half-hearted and half-way efforts of the past. Davidson has looked long enough. The time has come to leap.

Beyond Usefulness

What used to be a reasonable safeguard against abuse of need scholarships has now become an injustice and a subtle
form of social discrimination: the cars and scholarships rule. The rule forbids any student on a scholarship granted on the
basis of need to have a car on campus for more than three days at a time. The reasoning has
been that a student who was poor enough to need a scholarship was too poor to have a car. But
now the car has become a virtual necessity in a technological society, just as electric lights in dormitories. Because of
this, the meaning of having a car has changed, and it is no more undesirable for a student to have
a car on campus than it is for him to have an electric typewriter.

Lack of cars also adds to the isolation of students already stuck 25 miles out in the backwoods of North
Carolina. Since one of the justifications of required assemblies was the bringing in of outside speakers, it seems contradictory to
restrict the students’ means of returning to the outside world. Also to be considered is the matter of the fraternity-independent
distinction. When a person is in a fraternity, transportation becomes much less of a problem than when a person is
an independent. To begin with, it is just easier to get a ride from within a fairly cohesive group. But
then, what sort of time can someone have if he is restricted to nothing but double-dating?

However, the worst problem with the car and scholarship rule is the possibility of what would happen if the admissions
office ever applied the principle with any consistency. Students would find themselves limited to $5.28 on dates a month, unless
of course their dates paid the cost. Overeating would be forbidden, and scholarship students would receive ration cards. Refrigerators, televisions,
and record players would be contraband for scholarship students because someone who was so needy as to require a scholarship
shouldn't have these. The parody of the rule could continue, but the point is made. The rule has outlived its
usefulness and needs to be repealed.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Newspaper, ROTC Are Compulsory--Buchanan

To The Editor:

THE DAVIDSONIAN’s continued blasts at our ROTC program have finally hit home. Now that I realize and fully understand the
ethical implications of the question, I am enthusiastic about ridding all features of Davidson life from morally compromising situations. After
all, we do wish to experience the “real world.”

One particularly galling situation which has heretofore been overlooked is that we students are forced to support the student newspaper.
Although one of its defenders told me that the paper was not an onerous nor nefarious thing, I fear that
he was ignoring the moral implications. A more just policy, and one more in line with our moral perspective, would
be voluntary student support for THE DAVIDSONIAN. But I am sure that even this ideal scheme would meet with some
opposition. Paper supporters would maintain that the paper could not survive on this basis. THE DAVIDSONIAN needs the funds from
all students in order for those students who wish to take advantage of the paper to do so. Well, if
the paper cannot justify itself by itself, then it has no place on this campus. If we find it uncomfortable
to have on campus the same institution which has brought us Dwight Eisenhower, the Korean war, et. al., then think
how inconsistent it is to force support for the breeding ground of future Dear Abbys. Ely and Walts, Ann Landers—busybodies
all—who serve only to urge the acceptance of existing customs and mores. Parents of students are the only ones who
have the choice of subscribing. How can we expect to mature and develop if compulsory DAVIDSONIAN persists?

All kidding aside, both the DAVIDSONIAN and ROTC play valuable roles in making the Davidson experience as worthwhile as it
can possibly be.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters to the editor from any person on any subject, regardless of the views expressed. Letters should
notexceed 250 words and we reserve the right to condense such letters, and to correct for grammar and style. THE
DAVIDSONIAN has never in recent years refused to print a letter in good taste whose author could be confirmed.

To The Editor:

ED NOTE: This letter is a reply to THE DAVIDSONIAN editorial of March 28, “ROTC Has To Go.”

My position, lest anyone imagine me unnaturally belligerent or accuse me of having ulterior motives, is I am enrolled in
advanced ROTC for purely pragmatic reasons; I would not be in ROTC today had the course been voluntary; I am
opposed to the war in Vietnam and concerned about the military-industrial-educational complex in the United States. My argument, and I
must be amused by THE DAVIDSONIAN’s sudden concern with truth, is with the paper’s assumption that ROTC is incompatible with
a liberal arts education that “trains students in the pursuit of truth.” I consider the essence of a liberal arts
education to be the presentation of as many facets of human experience as possible. If anything “trains students in the
pursuit of truth,” it is showing them that because life is so varied and complex there are no, or very
few, absolute truths. It has always seemed ironic that two of the things for which liberals at Davidson have been
ardently campaigning are the abolition of subsidized athletics and compulsory ROTC—moves which would reduce the number of elliptical people at
Davidson—while at the same time they have been calling, rightly, for more diversity within the college community. Not only would
these changes deplete two significant sub-cultures at Davidson, the jocks and the ROTC-jocks, they would also shrink the ROTC and
physical education departments, probably the most heterogeneous departments at Davidson. It is a fact, however unfortunate it may be, that
the military forms a large part of American society—indeed, of international society—and knowledge of its workings can be an important
contribution to a liberal arts education. Granting this, one still must acknowledge that ROTC does not have the intellectual scope
offered by other disciplines. If on this basis (i.e., to make ROTC equivalent to the other courses, which, as far
as I recall, are all electives) it is decided to make ROTC voluntary, then I will wholeheartedly concur. I do
not believe, however, that because of the nature of the subject ROTC should be made voluntary. I can envision a
course covering the works of Clausewitz, Kuhne, Foch, Saxe, and Guibert, and emphasizing the theory and philosophy of warfare, which
would be as stimulating as any other course Davidson offers. The practical side—drill, rifle cleaning, etc.—would be no less a
contribution to the liberal arts than the science labs. The best argument I can offer for the retention of ROTC
at Davidson is summed up in a comment made by the dean of Wharton: “In the Army you don’t learn
a great deal about business, but you learn a lot about people.” If learning about people isn't the activity of
a liberal arts education, what is?

Robert N. Buchanan ‘70
Davidson College

To The Editor:

I too almost fell off my chair when I heard Robert Bryan speak for the first time on national TV—but
from sheer delight, not from the sort of fury evinced by Taylor Adams. (DAVIDSONIAN, April 11). Captain Bryan, like all
good Southerners, is a consummate actor and put-on artist, and his sense of style makes a usually drab program really
sparkle for a change. The Robert Bryan character is now known to some 60 million viewers. The fact that he
projects this character with only a few lines each program is, I think, a notable and praiseworthy achievement. The bit
about “riding to the hounds" was a veritable coup de maître. I can picture him chuckling to himself with glee
as the molasses-like tones of this roll across the country and set the teeth of thousands of humorless, short-sighted Yankees
on edge. To pseudo-reconstructed Southerners like Taylor Adams I say pooh-pooh. In his Spartan program of self-betterment, he seems to
have lost his sense of humor along with his Southern accent.

J. Edwin Rivers Jr. ‘66
Eugene, Oregon

To The Editor:

Although my acquaintance with Blue Sky at present extends only to the Midi, I will take exception to your editorial
on area exams (THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 11) asserting that “no student should go through a liberal arts education” without encountering
Sartre, counterpoint, or the “cold eye” of Yeats, among other things. I cannot accept the idea that there is a
list of subjects that should constitute anyone's education. You recognize value in “exciting the enthusiasm of the students and giving
them a chance to explore.” I sense a contradiction somewhere. Reflecting on my “education” thus far, what I have learned
is directly proportional to the extent that my interest coincided with what I did. Not surprisingly, such was greatest when
I had the most choice in what I was doing. If the development of ability in communication and of critical
capability are more important than acquaintance with Yeats or Sartre (or Lycophron or Vico), perhaps the students could satisfactorily choose
worthwhile subjects for themselves, especially if each student has a personal adviser (who might better be chosen by the student
than assigned) as you suggest. My implicit assumption, of course, is that most students have particular interests.

Doe Jones ‘70
Montpelier, France

‘Police Power’

Recently in the mass media there has been a great deal of criticism of those tried and true defenders of
the American Way, the police. Obviously, the police have gotten the worst of the argument and your columnist feels it
is time some patriotic soul stepped forward and came to their defense. However, it is not going to be me.
Contrary to communist propaganda, the typical American policeman is not a blundering, sadistic clod. He is really genial, intelligent, decisive,
and shrewd. There is a story now going around campus that illustrates the perspicacity of the men in blue of
our neighboring community of Mooresville. Recently one of Mooresville’s finest stopped a carload of students passing through late at night
and asked each of them where they were from and where they were going. One of the students, a Richardson
Scholar, responded that he was from, let us say, Poland. “Oh yeah, wise guy?” the cop replied. “Name me a
town in Poland.” With such shrewd detective ability as this, it is easy to see why the Mooresville police are
renowned far and wide. Police in other urban centers across our nation are similarly analytical. They stock up on riot
control weapons, and feeling the need to get a little realistic tactical training with them once in a while, they
clear the streets of the two major criminal elements in our society, students and Negroes. This is known as “Law
and Order.” However, they have shown little desire to deal with some of the more aggressive elements of the underworld,
e.g., the Mafia, which is probably one of America’s largest industries and is still growing. In all too many cases
the degree of law and order seems inversely proportional to the amount of the payoff. Leaving out fuzz of the
Bull Connor stripe as being too unbelievable to deal with, the police seem to have shown a remarkable ability to
antagonize even law-abiding moderates on occasion, thus earning the appellation “pigs.” If there was one conservative reporter tagging along in
a civil rights march, he would get maced. Onlookers at Duke were chased across campus and tear-gassed in the chapel.
The anti-ROTC campaign at Harvard was doomed to failure until the administration called in the police to attack the demonstrators
and 8,000 moderate students moved several degrees to the left after the sickening spectacle. The problem of the police is
the problem of an affluent society that has underpaid too many unqualified men to do a difficult job. It is
a job with little prestige and few rewards. But many of the men who hold it deserve few rewards. The
Hydra-headed monster of the police mentality cannot be eradicated in a decade, but it must be eradicated in a generation.
Law enforcement is too important to be left up to the police.

Reader Defends ROTC
