‘JULES AND JIM’ EXAMINED

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969

ACADEMIC YEAR OPENED

Proctor Keynoter At Convocation

Proctor received an honorary degree awarded by Davidson College and gave the keynote speech at a formal convocation of the Davidson academic community held Monday in celebration of the beginning of another academic year. The convocation, the first ever at Davidson, marks a significant event and recognizes the academic community.

Leavenworth Visit

By RICH WILSON
Staff Writer

Professor of the Air Force, on a private Air Force trip to Leavenworth, Kansas. Those on the trip included Dr. Albert A. Williams, Dr. Holman, and others. The visit to the S.A. Command General Staff College, where high-ranking officers, majors, and lieutenant colonels receive one year of graduate training, proved to be very interesting and controversial. 

The purpose of going to Fort Leavenworth, according to Col. Foster, who coordinated the trip, was “to allow different members of the faculty to view the army school system and see the type of training that is given along with the teaching aids which are used.” After they returned and reflected on the trip, some faculty members agreed with Foster about the purpose; others completely disagreed; and at least one wasn't sure yet what the purpose was. Davidson, Director of the Library and professor of History, realized from the trip that “the military knows how to do more than just kill people. Sure, the program we followed and the information we received was army propaganda, but not any more than the propaganda we receive every Sunday morning about the Christian religion trying to save our souls.” “The courses of study there were educationally sound, and the lectures which I sat in on were good,” Davidson added.

Freshmen Elections Postponed

Senior Class President Jim Hinshaw, the acting elections chairman of the Student Government Association, announced this week a postponement in all freshmen elections. In releasing a new election schedule, Hinshaw said that “more time is needed for freshmen to become acquainted with their classmates.” Elections to be held Oct. 14 will include residence Hall Senators and RHC Representatives for upperclassmen dorms, including one floor of Watts, junior class senator, and senior class cheerleader. The filing deadline for the election is next Tuesday, Oct. 7. According to Hinshaw, the junior senatorial seat is to be filled due to the vacancy left by Junior Class President Gary Cash, who is spending his junior year abroad, and the senior cheerleading spot is left open by the resignation of John Chalk.

Candidates for the bachelor gap faced by the poor lot country. Both the seniors and the faculty entered in a formal procession, attired in caps and gowns. Proctor, a former president of Virginia Union University and North Carolina A&T State University, an author, and a professor of Education at Rutgers University, spoke on the educational gap faced by the poor. He said that the black college student from a segregated school system usually has a rough time. He may feel lost in college because he has been hindered since youth by a sociological knot. “In order to finish near the top, no matter how smart, one must be near the top from the earliest of his days,” Proctor said of college entrance requirements. He added that funds should be given to the wonderful colleges to hold standards, but also to bring larger numbers of blacks within reach of those modern standards. Proctor described the problems that black students face. He said that black college students have been stuck with little educational opportunities, so they need a head start in higher education. Proctor added that the poor white and black would have an equal opportunity if the college community would provide an environment which would give added energy. He drew the analogy of a young pine tree which had been tied by a knot but grew because of an added environment.

Professor Jackson, instructor of political history, on the Leavenworth trip, said, “The courses of study there were educationally sound, and the lectures which I sat in on were good.”

THE DAVIDSON ASSEMBLY LINE

With the advent of decreased restrictions on cars and scholarships, there has also come a rise in the number of cars. Without the addition of increased parking facilities, there has also been a rise in the number of illegally-parked cars, and thus, parking tickets. With a number more than 308 cars, the problem is becoming a very real one. (Staff photos by Davidson.)

THE DESIGN IS NEW

But the age-old Davidson parking problem is still age-old.

Paper Changes

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
NUMBER TWO

The amount to one has been hindered since youth by a huge embarrassment for the poor. College will provide the needed environment. The poor white and black would have an equal opportunity if the college community would provide an environment which would give added energy. Dr. Raul S. Crane, missionary and director of the Chonju hospital in Korea, and Glenn Terrell, author and president of Washington State University, also received honorary degrees. Both are Davidson alumni. The Thomas Jefferson Award for excellence and dedication in teaching was presented to Anthony Proctor. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

ADDRESSES CONVOCATION

Crane and Terrell observe during the featured speech.

Moratorium Resolution Closes Oct. 15 Classes

Student Body President of Davidson College expressed its concern over the war in Vietnam. While as individuals we differ in detail, this body agrees to support the Vietnam Moratorium on October 15. In a rather surprising move Tuesday, the faculty voted by an estimated two-to-one margin to suspend classes for October 15 only. The nationwide effort calls for a moratorium on business as usual and urges a day of public awareness of the war. If the pattern of the war is not changed significantly, a longer moratorium is scheduled for November. However, the Davidson effort is planned only for the October date, designed to cooperate with the national effort.

The programs for the 15th include a faculty forum and a worship service. Hobbie said that the newly elected trustees will begin their work at the same time.David were joined by the weather alumni elections for trustees fall meeting of the trustees association beginning this fall moratorium program. And aby silverfish. This is and for officers in the National Alumni Association on October 30 and 31. Also were William L. Bondurant, Will be one for the campus regrettable, for the kind of student body we have here, have been completed, according to Howard B. Arbuckle. 

Elected were three trustees and three new officers for the alumni association. Tom Earnhardt, who had attracted some attention as the youngest man ever to run for the trusteeship, was not elected according to Arbuckle. While at Davidson and an MBA from Harvard Business School. While at Davidson he was president of the student body and member of ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and the “D” Club. Currently, he is Vice President of LaFar Mills.

Murphy Recruits Black Prospects

By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

Senior Calvin Murphy toured the Southeast as an attempt to inform black high school students of the opportunities available at Davidson. The idea behind his program was to acquaint these students with the college to look at Davidson. Dunham emphasized that the paper was not trying to actively try to sell the school to them. He found that in most cases, the students contacted knew little about Davidson other than it fields a basketball team. Most of those contacted exhibited extreme interest in what Davidson had to offer, said Murphy. Calvin contacted about fifty black students, and estimates that half of those will apply to Davidson. He justified this estimate by explaining that one of those on his list, a certain Marion Harris—who turned out to be a girl. Needless to say, Marion did not receive an admission brochure.