The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO: OCTOBER 31, 1969

A Sense Of Balance

Davidson prides itself in being a strong liberal arts college with a small student-faculty ratio. Actually, many classes, even several
better suited to discussion formats than lecture formats, often contain 40 to 50 or even more students. This is compounded
by the fact that approximately one fourth of the professors at this ‘strong liberal arts college’ are in the science
departments. This is rather distasteful because several popular departments have limited opportunities and limited courses. For example, “State and Local
Government” and the “American Defense Policy” seminar contain only a few courses. The Philosophy department contains only three professors, and
if one goes on sabbatical this leaves only two. There is only one professor for Drama and Speech. That this
could exist in a college containing six departments with at least six professors each is especially puzzling. These are: (1)
The Chemistry department with seven professors, which had only three majors in last year’s senior class. (2) The Economics department
has seven professors, but had 35 majors. (3) The English department has seven professors, but had 32 majors. (4) The
History department has eight professors, but also had 32 majors. (5) The Math department has six professors with only 10
majors. (6) The Religion department has six professors with only two majors in the class. Perhaps the number in the
science departments can be justified because of the 52 Pre-Med majors, and the relative number of professors in the departments
should be more evenly balanced. Third, student interest in departments outside of majors and required courses should be considered. Finally,
the type of courses offered, whether better suited to lectures or to discussions as in many presently overcrowded Political Science
courses, should be given consideration.

Moratorium Letter-In

Reprinted from the Tulane “Hullabaloo.”

Wednesday’s morning demonstration, “Moratorium,” emphasizes an essential aspect of the personality of our times: We live in an age when
we must question our politics. We have discovered new sensibilities, new emotions, new involvements, and they have expanded into social
movements protesting race relations, poverty, and war. We have sat, picketed, marched, hoped, and prayed for peace between all breeds
of men and this we have clearly conducted with the underlying belief that the pen will become mightier than the
sword.

A spokesman for a crowd often clouds your own beliefs and leaves you more dismayed than convinced by your involvements.
Americans have not availed themselves of one of their most effective channels for protest, the Post Office. If the majority
of the public conveyed their true convictions concerning the Vietnam war at one time by writing the President one letter
a day for one week, the commonwealth of our concern for peace will be substantially communicated without the fear that
the good will of our personal opinions will be overlooked or lost in the words of a spokesman for the
crowd or of our elected representatives. The timetable for your protest is to mail your letters daily beginning November 9
and continuing through November 15 to Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D. C.
20006. President Nixon may never read your letter as such but he will be intimately reminded of your convictions for
peace. We have a message to give to President Nixon. Let us unite in a common effort to express our
beliefs as Americans.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Homecoming Festivities ‘Blah’, Will Compete With

To the Editor:

Homecoming, that splendid weekend when the campus of Davidson buzzes with activity and Christian gentlemen stay up past midnight to
do all sorts of evil things, is here again. What joy fills the heart of the student as he ponders
all the magnificent things he will do. Friday night, Davidson students and their dates will assemble. The Turnau Opera Players
are what they seem to be—opera players. Yes, lovers of music, there will be an opera here this weekend, “Die
Fledermaus.” If you don't like opera, then on Saturday night, the Rotary Connection will be performing. Now this group is
a legitimate psychological rock group, and psychological inasmuch as they will blow your mind (their amplifiers are tremendous even to
the poem that uses the word “fart” the most number of times). To cap the weekend off, there will be
a worship service, so that all the naughty Christian gentlemen can confess and receive Unction before Monday comes. I am
sure you are wondering what the point of this Halloween is. I don’t know who the hell is responsible, but
I am tired of missing good concerts. What happened to Fifth Dimension? If I have offended anyone, I would like
to go on record saying tough bippy. Operas are offensive to me, so we are even. Of course, there is
one redeeming event. I am not sure what it is, but I am sure there is one.

Special Halloween to be shown

There is one well-known legend about Friedrich Schliermarch, a Russian poet, and his beloved stepsister Emily Bronte, who is a
ballerina. Then, too, there will be a presentation of “Romeo and Juliet” in the Morrison Room, which has won critical
acclaim for its delineation and growth of the five characters.

The Marburg View

By DICK ANDERSON

Student Protests EPC’s Delay On Area Exams

To the Editor:

I am writing today to urge the Educational Policy Committee of the Faculty to make a decision soon on the
impending future of Area Examinations for the Class of ‘72. We have waited, as a class, long enough for a
response to our letters, to our questions raised, and to our proposals. We have easily become discouraged, disillusioned, and disenchanted
with delay. And I feel that further hesitation may even further undermine the “esprit de corps” of the ideal academic
community for Davidson which was proposed in the Blue Sky Report. Current area examinations have been described by some of
their designers as being experimental and “intermediary.” The exams, they say, will be changed when better exams evolve from experience
with the present exams.

Hart Criticizes Reporting Of Moratorium Incident

To the Editor:

Since I was one of the students who were called into Col. Foster's office concerning our respective Moratorium Day activities,
I enjoyed reading Norman Cary’s fictionalized account of the free speech crisis within the ROTC department (Letters, Oct. 24). Mr.
Cary’s “reliable sources” say “that some of these cadets (the three identified Moratorium participants) were called before high authorities in
the ROTC department and advised not to participate in such events again.” If induction is valid in this case, Cary's
assessment of the three consultations is utter nonsense. No threats, no reprimands, and no criticisms of the self-expression transpired in
my dialogue with Col. Foster. Col. Foster's statements in the same edition of the DAVIDSONIAN are a completely valid description
of my discussion with him. The same DAVIDSONIAN: “Threat To M-Day Protestors Denied.” I think that it is impossible for
a newspaper to objectify an event. But let's not go overboard. First ofAll, I am not an MS IV as
the article states. Simple facts are easy to trace. I am a senior MS III who spent his junior year
abroad. Secondly, why was trouble taken to question me about the rumors and Col. Foster's subsequent denial and then not
print my statement? Perhaps it was because my confirmation of Col. Foster's denial was not compatible with the present fad
of depreciating ROTC and the military. But this is only speculation. It is not speculation, however, that some DAVIDSONIAN readers
would be less likely to believe Col. Foster's words if they were not confirmed in any way. Even Beetle Bailey
is a pathological liar. This letter has not investigated how the pivotal fact of my participation in the Moratorium was
discovered by the ROTC department. I cannot answer this question. Whether the taking of names constitutes in itself repression of
self-expression is debatable. Possibly it is the use to which such information is put which is the variable and determining
factor. To my knowledge, the ROTC department has used the information for positive, constructive purposes only—i.e., advising me about the
possible ramifications of similar protests undertaken by someone on active duty. Would it not have been reprehensible for a professor
to have noted with care those students who were absent from his classes if the Moratorium had been voluntary? Like
Norman Cary, my purpose is to admonish Cary himself for publicly articulating a rumor and the DAVIDSONIAN for poor and
extremely pejorative reporting.

Thomas M. Hart '70
Davidson College

ED. NOTE: THE DAVIDSONIAN wishes to respond to Mr. Hart's specific charges. First, the news account did not specify that
Mr. Hart was an MS IV student. It reported Col. Foster’s answer to a question regarding MS IV students. Second,
Mr. Hart's comments to the reporter were not printed in the article because (a) they added nothing to what had
already been said by Foster and every student contact and (b) since THE DAVIDSONIAN does not have the right of
privileged information, all student contacts were assured that they would in no way be identified, quoted, or attributed in the
article. Mr. Hart was informed of this premise before he was interviewed, and we kept the promise.

I fear, however, that the principles of the Blue Sky Curriculum have been decimated at best by the current area
examinations. The practical effects of the implementation of the Blue Sky Curriculum, with few exceptions, serve only as an intermediary
between a highly anachronistic system and the self-destruction of new educational leadership for Davidson. The exams, as they stand now,
test only technical competency in some rather obscure areas. I doubt that these exams offer a positive educational experience. In
our presentations to the Educational Policy Committee, we have stressed the importance of that Committee's becoming sensitively aware of the
situation which each of us as sophomores face. Time is important to us. Delays cause impatience. The Blue Sky Community
could help to spring Davidson into the forefront of higher education. Some progress has been made toward the creation of
this community. Area Examinations are retarding such progress, and suspension seems appropriate unless a better system can be proposed now.

Cecil E. Burney Jr. '72
Davidson College

It is with great pleasure that the “Column” is able to bring to the eyes of the public a poem
which has remained hidden in the folders of Sam Ramachandran since its first private reading by the poet in the
spring of 1969. The poem bears a marked resemblance to its Sanskrit ancestors in its solemnity and simplicity. The repetition
of the last two lines in each stanza echoes throughout the poem like a quiet chant reverberating from the walls
of an ancient temple. Mr. Ramachandran’s picture of famine is a modern picture of India. So great is the influence
of Barrenness that the life-giving forces are not only rendered helpless but themselves play a part in the destruction.

The Famine

Famished are the fields,
Famished of life-giving rain;
Nature’s fecundity barren,
Barren by Nature.

Parched are the fields,
Parched by the relentless sun;
Nature’s fecundity barren,
Barren by Nature.

Thirsty are the fields,
Devoid of the thirst-quenching water of the canals;
Nature’s fecundity barren,
Barren by Nature.

Dying are men,
Hungered by the lifeless crops;
Nature’s fecundity barren,
Barren by Nature.

Ramachandran

MARBURG—The Establishment is taking another round of beatings this year. The Mets horrified the baseball establishment in the Series. The
Southern Conference is being rocked back on its heels by, of all the unlikely protagonists, Davidson’s football team. The Selective
Service System not only is losing General Hershey but a few weeks ago also lost me due to the timely
intervention of Davidson’s ROTC. (I got drafted and they rescued me. Thanks.)

Here, however, the situation is in its usual flux. Compared to a German University, the SSS is really an easy
system to deal with. One can usually find out the rules, discover where the relevant papers are, get in touch
with the people in charge of one’s case. But here especially the foreign student finds himself faced by an incredible,
formless mass. The student has to deal not with one administration but with seven or eight, and it is impossible
to get to the heart of the university structure. The reason that one cannot find the central organization of a
German university is that it does not have one. There is a man called “the rector” who is supposedly in
charge, and I think he has an office with two secretaries somewhere, but all the substantive decisions are made by
the university’s six “faculties.” The faculties, which are composed of the full professors for specific groupings of subject matter, are
responsible for all hiring, scheduling, and determining of courses to be offered with content. The purpose of this decentralization is
to assure the professors academic freedom, which it does to some extent. But it—or rather “therefore”—means that each individual professor
has effectively complete control of the content and timing of the courses he offers. Result: the enormous majority of courses
have titles like “Shamanism in Siberia” or “Selected Topics on the Physical Geography of the Alps.” If Norman Johnson were
a professor here and wanted to offer his course entitled “Obsolete Methods of Shooting Airplanes with Tracers,” it would be
nothing out of the ordinary. This fragmentation has several unfortunate results. The students in many cases naturally react in favor
of broader, more topical courses, but in this reaction many go too far. For instance, one ethnology student told me
about a course she had taken on South American folk patterns. “But isn’t the course supposed to make you an
expert in this field?” I asked. “We were watching a film on weaving in Brazil,” she said; “the professors want
to talk about that but not about the Indians being killed there right now.” “Yes, it’s supposed to make you
an expert,” she answered, a little sadly, “but I’m not one; you can’t become an expert here.” But since the
responsibility also does not lie with the tiny central administration, to whom must the German student go for recourse against
what he feels to be inequitable? A girl from Berlin who helped Rudi Dutschke, the German SDS leader shot in
the head last year, told me the answer to that question: “We have to riot to make the university react
and give us something to latch onto.” At least to some extent she was right; the flexibility alluded to above
results from a class last year in which the students refused to allow the professor to speak until he dealt
with a more significant topic (admittedly a deplorable tactic, but in this case apparently necessary). There are some advantages to
the faculty system. “In loco parentis” is only three words of Latin nonsense to a German, and the professors do
have academic freedom. But they get their freedom at the expense of the students and in accepting such freedom they
risk losing it to the students’ anger at deprivation. So, Davidson students, be happy with your administration. At least when
something goes wrong, like area exams, one knows who to blame and where to find him. Which is an improvement
over this anarchy. Isn’t it?
