WYZANSKI'S DECISION: WHAT DOES IT MEAN? (See Page Six)

LV Beer Permit Granted
By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

The Wildcat Den has received an ABC Board permit to sell beer for consumption “on the premises.” Mr. William Murphy,
manager of the restaurant, said that policy allows beer to be served with food only. The permit was obtained without
the legal hassle that accompanied the application of the Davidson Grocery for a beer permit last fall. “We just followed
the normal procedures,” said Murphy, and the permit came from Raleigh “without any difficulties.”

F. L. Jackson, mayor of Davidson, had no interference with the application from the Wildcat Den as he did with
the Davidson Grocery. Murphy said that applications for permits to sell beer along with food have different requirements that prevent
them from becoming “beer joints” or retail distributors. The requirement must have an “A” rating from the Health Department, and
anyone who has been convicted of a felony is not allowed to hold a beer permit.

“A nice place for the boys and their dates and families to come,” Murphy said. “People that expect a nice
place come here.” Murphy said he had a large experience at Davidson. He was the manager of the Student Union
food service when it first began operation in 1963. The Wildcat Den employs nine Davidson students as part-time help.

Bowl Team Meets Wesleyan Sunday

The College Bowl team meets Wesleyan University of Connecticut Sunday night at 6 in the team's first live appearance. WDSC
will broadcast the show.

The News And Editorial Voice Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1969

SOPHOMORE HUGH MARR EXAMINES EVIDENCE
Charlotte Police Chief said the handwritings were identical.

Respect For National Hero Ney’s Real Identity Masks
By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

The similarities between Peter Stuart Ney and Marshal Michel Ney have been the source of speculation for over 100 years
that the two men were in fact the same man. Recently, Mecklenburg County Police Chief Lawrence A. Kelly said that
letters written by the two individuals were written by the same hand. Marshal Michel Ney was Napoleon's greatest general. Sophomore
Hugh Marr has recently joined the ranks of the investigators trying to solve this problem which history seems determined to
keep as her personal secret. Some believe that Marshal Ney was executed by firing squad in 1815, but others believe
he escaped. Despite a plea to the Duke of Wellington, who is said to have offered Ney comfort, it was
very possible that Ney escaped the execution. The firing squad may have aimed over Ney and many well have been
coached to fire over the head of their general. Ney claimed to have faked death with the aid of a
sack of red liquid strategically spilled after the shots. It was reported that an Englishman on horseback gathered some of
the pebbles stained by the “blood,” but the Englishman's handkerchief full of pebbles could not be located.

In 1846 Peter Stuart Ney died, leaving his physician, Dr. Matthew Locke, bewildered by a confession that he was indeed
Marshal Michel Ney.

Ervin Hawks Preparedness In Backing ABM Proposal
By ROBERT ELLIOTT
Staff Writer

“I see no indications in the present scene that we are in for a long period of peace,” said Senator
Sam Ervin during his defense of the ABM system in a speech in the Morrison Room Tuesday. Ervin, the fourth
ranking Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, defined the objective of U.S. defense policy as preventing another world war
until Russia advances in its technology. “This is done by three major deterrents,” he said, “First, land-based American missiles in
concrete silos. Second, intercontinental bombers. Third, Polaris missiles on Atlantic submarines.” The function of the ABM is to protect the
deterrents from attack. “The Russians have been building the ABM. These missiles can carry the equivalent of 1 million tons
of atomic power. They can destroy a Minuteman if they fall within four-tenths of a mile from the site,” said
Ervin. According to Ervin, the U.S. cannot continue to rely on strategic retaliatory power. He said that new equipment will
in the future enable Russia to detect our Polaris subs, thus rendering them vulnerable to attack. Ervin claimed that the
Russians would have first-strike capability by 1974. “Russia already has an ABM system — much larger than the one which
we plan to build. As far as accelerating the arms race, it is inconceivable that Russia will build weapons any
larger than they have now,” Ervin said. Ervin explained that the ABM was being built so that Russia would not
gain nuclear superiority and that it is not an attempt to further the pocketbooks of some industry. “It is better
to die on your feet than live on your knees,” he said. “I have had every war fought on the
face of the earth because of absolute,” Ervin said. But he asserted that we must maintain strong defenses until changes
in human nature make this possible.

SAM ERVIN
... backs ABM

As an established publisher in the Carolinas, Ney verbally willed a trunk to a student which can be seen at
the Mecklenburg County Library according to Kelly. Before the trunk could be claimed by the student, however, two men, purportedly
from New York, used the Carolina equivalent of Boston’s law. Since that time, many have become intrigued with the whole
affair and sought its solution. “The only way to be absolutely, positively sure whether Peter was Marshal,” said Marr, “is
to dig up Marshal in France.” The French do not like the idea of unearthing a national hero. If it
was discovered that their national shrine contained the remains of a fraud, the image of a national hero would be
destroyed. If they verify their belief that the grave actually does contain Marshal, they would have ensured the disgrace of
violating the grave of a national hero. Based on descriptions, personal descriptions, and many facts known about Marshal Ney, the
obvious thing to do is examine the remains of Peter Stuart Ney. That was tried twice with inconclusive results. The
first time in the 1880s, P.S. Ney's body was to be examined to see if he had a silver plate
in his head or a bullet lodged in his jaw which Marshal Ney was known to have. But it began
to rain so that the body was not carefully examined nor was the dirt around the grave sifted as had
been planned. In 1969, THE NEW YORK TIMES and TIME magazine...

Three Freshmen Cut Drill, Class In Protest Of ROTC
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Editor-In-Chief

Opposition to mandatory ROTC has become determined enough that at least three freshmen are cutting all classes and drills in
protest. Two of the freshmen, Chris Sikes and Sam Boy, base their decision not to attend on ethical reasons, while
the third, Zach Mobley, criticized the program on a political basis. A fourth freshman, Vance Simpson, had avoided the course
with a note from his parents, but opposed participation because of the Vietnam War and his pre-med major. For Sikes,
ROTC was a symbol of an unacceptable national policy. “I believe making ROTC mandatory is only on the surface. The
United States is indoctrinating its youth to become more military-minded.” Mobley concurred in criticizing the militarism, but based his opposition
on mandatory ROTC not being harmonious “with the American ideal of freedom.” He said his belief was strong enough that
he would leave the country rather than be inducted. All argued that advanced ROTC's existence was not dependent on the
maintenance of required basic ROTC, but all were willing to see the program dropped if student interest was sufficient. ROTC
department statistics showing that only 10 percent of the students would...

(See ROTC, Page 6)

Staff To Hear Payne

Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Eugene Payne of the Charlotte Observer will be the speaker at the annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet April 21
in the College Union. The banquet is held each spring for both members of the old and new staffs, and
the outstanding freshman reporter is named winner of the D. Grier Martin award and $25. The banquet will begin at
6:30 p.m. Staffers who plan to attend should sign up in THE DAVIDSONIAN office by noon of next Saturday.

HOW NOT TO NAME A COACH (See Page Four)

NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

Fraternities Ease On Pledge Hazing
By BOB DUNHAM and DAVID SWEATT

A survey of the 12 fraternities on campus this week revealed a trend away from previously accepted acts of hazing
during Greek Week and establishment of more worthwhile community-centered projects. Although instances of a few still exist, administrative criticism generally
credits the continued, almost universal trend in most fraternities to reduce hazing. Assistant Dean of Students Jim Truesdale explained that
prior to the beginning of Greek Week activities that the administration would not condone all incidents which involved the physical
or mental abuse of individuals.According to Marr, these letters have been analyzed twice to see if they were written by
the same man. An American team of experts said that they matched, and a French team said they did not.
(See NEY, Page 6)

the campus for the purpose of hazing or any sort of injury. Still, some fraternities have violated the rulings. In
each of the fraternities surveyed, at least two members (either leaders or pledges) were contacted. The results were as follows:

Alpha Tau Omega worked on a project at a church, cleaning up the grounds and helping with repairs. The pledges
also purchased some hay for their fraternity. The fraternity sat down completely on the lawn, with the early traditions being
a bit more elaborate.

The pledges of Phi Delta Theta had more involvement in Greek Week. They also participated in an informal discussion with
the rest of the campus and surrounding areas.

Kappa Alpha continued the low-cost culture with their major project, while maintaining a few other activities. Kappa Alpha pledges experienced
a mild Greek Week, as they planted dogwoods in the yard and then enjoyed a campus event.

Pi Kappa Phi cut down on hazing this year but still allowed some paddling. As a service project, the pledges
painted the home of one of their cooks.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon retained its traditional "pirate party" and held a scavenger hunt while emphasizing house clean-up.

Sigma Nu eliminated all previous traditions of hazing, focusing instead on house cleaning and a day spent with underprivileged children.

Sigma Phi Epsilon pledges cleaned up the grounds at the Alexander Children's Home in Charlotte, built a bar, and planted
grass in their yard. The brothers cut out all hazing except for their traditional bar call.

Sigma Chi emphasized working around the house, making a field day with local children and cutting out all hazing except
for the scavenger hunt.

Phi Gamma Delta pledges held a road clean-up on Main Street and the brothers took part in the event. (See
HAZING, Page 4)

BULLETIN

Larry Brown was named the new head basketball coach late Thursday and requested Bo Brickels as his assistant. A three-man
committee of President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Dean Francis W. Johnston, and Athletic Director Tom Scott selected the 28-year-old starting
guard for the Oakland Oaks as Delesulf's successor. See story on Page 5.

New Regulations
By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

The long-awaited final report of the Student Conduct Committee, which contains the administration's recommendations for selective administrative action among fraternities,
has now been made public by the college's adoption of the Code of Responsibility. The substance of the report is
confidential at this point.

Speaking of the length of time it has taken to finish the report, Sam Boyd, assistant director of the union,
said, "There was no philosophy of delay involved. It was a matter of being a job of housekeeping for the
most part." Boyd said the report was low on the list of priorities of the members of the council, who
are members of the administration directly involved with students. "We were bogged down partly by the Open End Housing Shortage
Adds To Silent Discrimination," he said.

By NORWOOD POLAND
Staff Writer

Racial discrimination in housing may be illegal, but subtle social pressures have thus far kept the town of Davidson an
effectively segregated community. While there appear to be no overt cases of racial discrimination in the sale of property here,
the close personal nature of this small town tends to discourage anyone from selling land in a white section to
Negroes. The black people still live west of the tracks, and the white people, except for those in the neighborhood
near the textile mill, live on the east side.

"Apparently there are no racially restrictive clauses written into sales contracts," Dr. Max E. Polley, Davidson religion professor, said. "People
have just understood that no one in a white neighborhood would sell his home to a Negro." It had been
reported that a certain property owner in Davidson had sold land with the verbal restriction that it remain in white
hands. In the absence of a concrete test case, though, this report could not be verified. Moreover, the social pressures
operating in the community would probably render such a stipulation unnecessary, Dr. Polley said.

Taylor Blackwell, editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette, who has had dealings in real estate in Davidson, said that the very
small turnover in real estate here creates special conditions with regard to buying and selling land. "Dealings are of a
personal nature here, and buyers don't usually approach a property owner until they are ready to make a firm offer,"
Blackwell said. Such a market makes racial discrimination by housing difficult to prevent since there is an open market.

Racial prejudice is not the only cause of segregated housing in Davidson, however, Dr. Polley said. Economics is a big
factor since few Negroes in Davidson could afford to buy land on the white side of town. A housing problem
might arise, though, if Negroes are placed on the college faculty or if other middle-class Negro professionals come to Davidson.
Such people would not have the economic obstacles that local Negroes must overcome in finding housing.

The college has developed two subdivisions for its faculty and employees, with special financing arrangements available. If the faculty were
integrated, the Negro families would be eligible to buy lots for building from the college. These subdivisions, however, are limited
to college employees. A person not connected with the college, or a faculty member not wanting to buy a home,
would have to find a place in the town as best he can, which because of the present shortage of
housing here is difficult even for a white person.

Even a faculty member could probably not sell his home to a non-college Negro if his land has been bought
from the college. According to Mrs. Carolyn S. Bear, assistant to the Dean of Students, the college maintains the right
to buy back property in the college subdivisions by matching the highest bona fide offer. This policy, she said, is
designed to keep the subdivisions available for college people only.

Go To President

chapel fell low yesterday. It concluded, "The student body is an element of responsibility, but they affect the way we're
helping." More scope will be given to the report that funds the conduct not included in the study of Responsibility,
according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burd. "They are administrative rules and ought to come from the administration," he
added. Boyd emphasized the unity of the code with the new report provisions when he said, "The new rules are
in line with the philosophy of the Code of Responsibility."

The report's recommendations about fraternity-house curfews have not been disclosed. The curfew was suspended on a trial basis during Midwinters,
and Assistant Dean of Students James A. Terry Jr. said he was not pleased with the result. He said that
several fraternities abused their privileges. He noted, however, that it was a bad weekend for a trial because of the
number of parties on campus and the bad weather. "I think the fraternities saw that a lot of responsibility went
with the suspension of curfews," he said.

Terry reported the infractions to the IFC, which handles the enforcement of regulations. However, he was optimistic about the prospect
for further relaxing of curfews. "I think the fraternities will show more responsibility in the future," he said.

200 At Harvard Fight Policemen
By ED SHOAF
Managing Editor

Hurling hate and shouting "Sieg Heil," Harvard students battled Massachusetts and Cambridge police yesterday in a bloody anti-ROTC demonstration that
left 30 persons injured. Led by the Harvard chapter of the Students for a Democratic Society, approximately 100 students had
occupied the University Hall on Wednesday. One dean in the building was bodily removed and several others, including the dean
of the faculty, Franklin L. Ford, were evicted.

Although enthusiasm for the occupation began to wane in the early morning hours, the number of students in the hall
swelled to about 200 with the word that police were arriving. The students had originally occupied the building when they
presented a list of six demands to the administration. Most of the demands dealt with ROTC, as one specifically called
for the abolition of Harvard's ROTC program.

The police intervention in the matter came yesterday when about 400 police entered historic Harvard Yard to recapture the University
Hall. The police, many of whom were swinging clubs, rushed the hall and were inside in a matter of seconds.
It took them about an hour to clear the rest of the courtyard. In the skirmishing, over 300 persons were
arrested in addition to the 30 persons who were injured in the fighting.

Colin Leinster, education editor for Life magazine, was one of the injured. He said he was clubbed from behind as
he stood on the University Hall taking notes. Commenting on the injury, Leinster said, "I spent two years in our
Saigon bureau and never got a scratch. I've just been back here a month."
