Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Subscription rates: $6 per year, $6.50 if billed.

BOB DUNHAM & FRANK ANDERSON Editors-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

JACK WELLMAN Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1996

Motives Matter

In an interview this week President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. expressed his opinion that the future status of ROTC at Davidson is “not a vital issue.” We would like to disagree. He said that it was not vital to the future of the college, nor was it vital to the future of the armed forces. We would like to say that it is vital to the students, and that it therefore deserves serious consideration on the part of faculty, administration, and trustees.

Spencer’s point is well-taken. At a time when military might is the word of the world, it is of importance that this generation have knowledge of the functioning of the military. But we must stick to the moral issue, and it seems that the practice of compulsory ROTC by the college is a means of forcing on its students its own decision in a very questionable moral issue — the use of violence and force and the place of the military. No matter what other schools have done, regardless of figures and graphs of student participation in voluntary programs on other campuses, Davidson's program should be examined on its own merit and in its place within the school's Christian commitment.

We would prefer that the option remain, for it would be as bad to deny the option one way or the other. But if the program does go voluntary, and the number of officers per year does fall below the magic figure, and the Army does terminate the program, then it seems evident that the reason for terminating the program would be that student interest was not high enough. And if the program cannot attract enough student interest to maintain itself, its demise is proper, for its benefits will not be worth its costs.

We urge the faculty and the administration to reexamine the status of ROTC on this campus, but we insist that it be done on a moral basis, without the complications of campus political concerns. It seems that some faculty members feel that the Board of Trustees would overrule a proposal for a voluntary program, and that such a ruling would weaken the position of the Davidson faculty. Some persons have suggested that it is the wrong time to propose that change, with all of the other proposals before the board. What seems to be forgotten, at the risk of repetition, is the moral issue involved. And it certainly seems that this is what the whole program hinges upon, not political considerations. We look for the alternatives, but let’s keep the motivation clear. It is best to recall Eliot’s admonition: “The last temptation is the greatest treason / To do the right thing for the wrong reason.”

Wanted: Three Coaches

The loss this week of Assistant Coaches Terry Holland and Jerry Conboy has left an irreparable gap in the Davidson athletic department. When the top prospect for the head coaching job was named this week a number of team members revealed their preference for Holland, but it was too late. No one can blame the two for leaving. People could complain about the departure of Lefty Driesell, but without a recruiting prayer, Holland and Conboy were wise to leave.

On Being ‘Christian’

Copyright 1969, ‘Presbyterian Survey’ Reprinted With Permission

Quietly last fall Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., restated its hiring policy. In effect, it eliminated a requirement that faculty members be Christian. A storm of controversy had arisen months before when the impossibility of hiring a Jewish faculty member became known. Not even the American Jewish Committee claimed that Scott was anti-Semitic, only that its pro-Christian definition required discriminatory hiring. All Christians are greatly indebted to our Jewish friends for raising the issue, and pushing us to re-think the old question, what is a Christian college?

Second Coming?

A news item which bears comment popped up recently on a campus to the southwest — Bob Jones University in Greenville, S.C. — requested submachine guns for its security officers. For a school whose guards sometimes have to keep students within the barbed wire fences as well as keeping others out, the whole thing seemed a bit scary. Fortunately, the request was denied. Billed as the “World’s Most Unusual University,” it looked as if Bob Jones was really going to outdo its previous heights of incredibility. The reasons for the request were never specifically given, but it is believed that one Greenville grandmother was close to the solution when she suggested that perhaps Bob Jones himself had seen a vision that the Second Coming was at hand and that the guards needed to be ready to combat evil of all sorts.

A great deal of pessimism has been expressed by the team for its future under the top prospect for the job. But the fact remains that any coach is going to have a terrible year of recruiting now. No coach in his right mind would walk into the vacancy now. It’s just too late. As long as Davidson plans to carry on its basketball program, certainly some competence should be displayed in the selection of a coach. So far it hasn’t and it’s about time somebody said so.

When the American continent was first being settled, there were no colleges. So Christians started them. Perhaps that is when a college is Christian: when it is serving an educational need of society that would otherwise go unmet. To put it another way, maybe a college, like a church or an individual, is uniquely Christian only when it embodies the lifestyle of a servant. Excellence is surely another criterion. Colleges, like churches and individuals, can hardly claim to worship God with their minds when intellectual inquiry is sloppy and mediocre, or stifled. Where faculty members must profess Christianity, academic excellence could conceivably be sacrificed for nominal Christianity.

If, as in the case of Agnes Scott, a college proposes to offer education “distinctly favorable to the maintenance of the faith and practice of the Christian religion,” then how? In the turmoil of Christian education today, where much re-thinking and re-evaluating is being done, new and creative answers are being formulated. But one thing seems clear: faith that must be nurtured in a hot house of conformity hasn't much chance of survival in a pluralistic society. We're living in a time when we must understand the deep convictions of other faiths, including those of a secular society. This need was likely met in earlier times when Christians numbered no more than 15 percent of church college student bodies.

We rejoice that Agnes Scott, a privately owned college with close ties to the Presbyterian Church US, has shed an embarrassing anachronism in its continuing process of definition and search for the truth.

— Frances Furlow

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Sands: Subsidized Athletics Are Publicity Aid,

To The Editor:

Recently, my attentions were seized by an ugly rumor that subsidized athletics may soon become a thing of the past at Davidson. If one man's opinion may be of any significance, may I urge the school to consider any move to this effect with the utmost scrutiny. Perhaps it is because we reside in the relatively distant state of Texas that the basketball team is of such importance to local alumni, I suppose it is due to a search for identity, but I certainly find it a pleasant change from a few years ago that people no longer ask if Davidson is a junior college. Would this be the case if our basketball team had not excelled in recent years? Ironically, it is largely due to publicity generated by our athletic accomplishments that the name “Davidson” is now also linked with academic excellence. In Texas, our school has become better known than other small institutions of similar quality such as Bowdoin, Union, Reed, Hamilton, or Grinnell, and may be eclipsing even such hallowed names as Williams and Amherst in recognition by the general public.

While fame in itself is not entirely devoid of utility, it must be admitted that an unwarranted reputation would be in conflict with the purported honesty of our Presbyterian heritage. Thus, when journalists bond Davidson's athletic reputation and intellectual environment, are their statements valid, or, as many claim, are subsidized athletics a damper on an institution’s intellectual...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

atmosphere? To me, it is evident that at Davidson our athletic teams have been a progressive force. Not only has our expanding renown resulted in a more heterogeneous student body, but many athletes are some of Davidson's best scholars. Additionally, it would be ludicrous to believe that the extent of integration, now even including fraternities, in a Southern school such as Davidson could have occurred without the influence of the black athlete. While many are quick to assert that the Negro’s role at Davidson is very superficial, they must admit it is at the least a start in the right direction. On a recent visit to Davidson, I was introduced to freshman Lester Strong, a most impressive individual. Would he have chosen to attend Davidson over Princeton if it had not been for subsidized athletics?

Two other common arguments against endowing athletes are economic and moral. First, it would be erroneous to ignore the inestimable financial value of free publicity generated by sporting news. Furthermore, I hold grave reservations whether savings from abolishing athletic scholarships would compensate for the loss of ticket revenues. We should not disregard the large constant costs of equipment and travel regardless if athletic scholarships are granted. Also, wouldn't many men now receiving compensation for athletic abilities be eligible for scholastic aid? I also fail to comprehend why it is considered morally proper to subsidize those adept at music, art, or scholarship, yet it is immoral to support the athlete. Did not the cultural Greeks hold athletics to be of prime import?

I fear that in our quest to achieve the academic stature of Swarthmore, the Little Ivy, and similar institutions, we are inclined to ignore or alter many of the policies which have made Davidson unique. In their place, we oblige ourselves to mimic the illusion of intellectual non-conformity which appears to be the current vogue. Apparently, the omniscient advocates of this philosophy feel obligated to transform the world into a utopia based upon some bizarre narcissism of the intellect. Inexplicably, these are the same people who so vociferously denounce the ivory-tower atmosphere of our school. I did not attend Davidson because I believed it to be only a typical small liberal arts college with high academic standards, but rather because I believed there was more. If I had wished to associate myself with an academic monopoly, surely, I would have searched for a place with a more central location.

While I cannot concur with my cohorts who pledge, "If they do away with subsidized athletics, they'll never get a nickel out of me," I must admit that if the administration were to further standardize the school by coupling this decision with one to eliminate fraternities, these indignant alumni would have a most tantalizing proposition. I trust that the "unbiased" committee which is studying the future of subsidized athletics at Davidson fully realizes the implications of its decisions.

Stephens H. Sands '68
Dallas, Texas

Percival’s Uncle Wart Remover
By David Sweatt

On Practicing What You Preach

We've talked "student responsibility" constantly since the passage of the Code of Responsibility last year. Now it's time to talk about faculty responsibility. That same famed faculty encyclical which called students to responsibility for their own actions has not brought a much-needed reform in that august assembly known to students as "The Faculty Meeting." Instead, faculty members have shown spectacular blindness to the code’s implications for themselves.

The most flagrant abuse of the spirit of the code is the maintenance of closed faculty meetings in the face of the code itself: "The aim of this code is to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions... Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions."

Explanations for maintenance of the rule have been unsatisfactory: "Well, students ought to know we have their interests at heart." "Faculty members need the meeting the way they are to ensure the 'best' consideration of issues. If they were open some faculty members would play to the galleries and others wouldn't feel free to speak what they thought." Or how about: "The faculty doesn’t really decide anything that important to students — it has moved itself out of all social questions. Curriculum and academics, you say? Yes, but that’s solely the responsibility of the faculty." Or this gem: "Faculty members don’t want students to know what they say about things — surely you can see that that sort of thing would come between teachers and their students."

Overall, the position of the faculty seems inconsistent. To say that a member of the college community must "accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions" and then to proceed in closed session borders on hypocrisy. The arguments for freedom of discussion and concern for student-faculty rapport appear to have some validity. But what things that need to be said in meetings could not be said before students or in closed session when professional or highly confidential matters were under discussion?

The student-faculty friction that might arise through student knowledge of faculty members’ positions on various questions appears to be much less severe than under present conditions when students are blindsided by decisions that go completely unexplained. Deliberation and action of student groups are open to reporting in the student press. Student government works on the premise that their responsibility to the college community dictates that their actions and decision-making be open to public view. Though students may plead and persuade, students have no direct say in policy making for the college. Is it unreasonable to say that they deserve some reciprocity of openness from those who do make policy?

A change would certainly not be revolutionary (Students have been granted permission to witness faculty meetings at some high schools). And it certainly wouldn’t be difficult to argue, since proponents could quote the faculty’s own stated principles in support of the change. And if the faculty can’t see its way clear to such a change on their own, students may once again have to hit the long legalistic trail, this time under a provision of the code: "Complaints against students for alleged violations of the code should be made to the Dean of Students or to the chairman of the appropriate committee. Complaints against non-student members of the college community are the responsibility of the president or the Board of Trustees."

It’s never been done. But, like a lot of other things around here, maybe it should be.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.