Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

ROBBIE HOOKER Editor-in-Chief

MIKE JOHNSON Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 1969

PAGE TWO

About That Question

If we'd asked about faculty salaries, we probably wouldn’t have gotten as colorful a response as we did when we asked, on last week’s faculty questionnaire, about the admission policy of minority group students. The question was, do you favor admitting larger numbers of minority group students who are qualified under present admission standards? And the answers...

A couple of profs chomped down on us for asking a “vague” and/or “irrelevant” question. They asserted that the question implies that the college has been turning away this kind of student, which is, of course, not true. Most faculty members, though, benevolently assumed that we aren’t totally ignorant and interpreted the question another way, the way we intended it — i.e., should the college more actively seek out the minority group students? Listen to what some of them said:

—“Only if sufficiently good ones are interested. Look at what we've gotten so far! Do you read the newspapers? Do you know any such group that appreciates its opportunities in other schools?”

—“Of course. American Indians, gypsies, Jews, mountain whites, blacks and everybody.”

—“Yes (underlined twice)—which means getting out and recruiting them professionally.”

—“If they are qualified why are they not admitted? The problem seems to be one of recruitment, which Davidson very greatly neglects.”

With those last two professors we agree completely. We are sorely lacking minority group students, to be sure, but to charge the admissions office with neglect or half-heartedness is unfair. The admissions personnel say they want qualified students and few of them apply here. The solution seems to us, as to many faculty members (38 out of 45 returning questionnaires favor admitting more qualified minority group students), to be a matter of recruiting. Go out after those students with earnest. Bust a gut to get them. To the recruited students and the college, it would be worth a major shift in the college's financial priorities.

Boredom Curb

Last fall we called attention to a psychologist’s survey on lectures which showed, among other things, that a vast majority of today’s undergraduates don’t even listen in class. Matter of fact, the study revealed that a comparable number of students are as likely to be thinking about sex as listening to the professor. (The percentage given was 20 percent in each category).

One of the conclusions from this would seem to be that most lectures are dull, and, though we didn’t dare mention it last fall, perhaps this applies at Davidson as well. All need not be bleak, though, if Davidson were to implement a custom practiced at at least one northern school, lectures would surely pass sex as an attention-holder. In the first place, class attendance at this school is voluntary, thereby giving a professor an added incentive to be interesting. More important, however, is the fact that anytime a student gets bored, he can walk out of class — without being penalized. Certainly a true indicator of a lecture’s worth.

We need a similar set-up here. We need more informative, challenging lectures. We need our minds on the liberal arts and the sciences — not sex. Even our conservative Presbyterian forebearers would agree to that.

Candidates’ Crimes

We shudder to think how many trees were cut down to produce the paper for candidates’ platforms. It is a crime against nature to deforest America in order to print such drivel. Platforms for this week’s Senate and YMCA elections were the epitome of me-tooism, good-guyism and outright personality contesting. Most platforms were appropriately posted in bathrooms. If it weren’t for urinals none of the candidates would have gotten any votes. But they do provide comic relief.

There is no point in THE DAVIDSONIAN saving those Senate platforms to see if the candidates keep their promises—they made no substantial promises and took no positions, except for some broad and ill-defined ones. Candidates this year campaigned on the basis of “honor” and “responsibility." Some would occasionally go out on a limb and promise to attend all the meetings. Campaign technique was characterized by the broad generality and wide smile. They might as well have promised to go to the Post Office every day.

One would think that the supposedly intelligent, perceptive and discerning students of Davidson College would demand more of their candidates for elective office. The situation this year points out the disarray into which student government has fallen. The most able men must not be running for the Senate, for surely the most able men at Davidson would have something more to say in their platforms than this year’s substandard fare. Hopefully the new senators can overcome this early case of verbal diarrhea and produce some more thoughtful graffiti.

The Meaning Of War

From The Chapel Hill Weekly

The lady had come in to submit for publication a note of thanks to those who had tried to share her family's grief. Her son had been killed in Vietnam several weeks before. The Christmas holidays had come and gone since that wrenching news arrived. Now she was picking up the threads of her life again and must have been trying desperately to return to the old familiar patterns. But the grief was still etched deeply in her face. She spoke haltingly, almost painfully, about how thoughtful people had been. Her face was working and she was trying hard to hold back the tears. By now tears must have become a regular part of her days and nights. When she had gotten it all said, or most of it, she turned quickly and hurried out, heading blindly for the front door. Broken again.

And it was at that moment that the tragedy of the Vietnam War, of all war, became real. Yesterday Vietnam had been national policy and enlightened national self-interest and halting aggression and self-determination for the free people of the world, and maybe it would be all those things again tomorrow. But at that moment it was only raw tragedy. The debate in Paris over the size and shape of the conference table and whether the peace talks would be three-sided, four-sided, or whatever suddenly was roaring insanity. The ludicrousness of Strom Thurmond and Curtis LeMay and the other red-eyed hawks calling for “total victory” all at once was clear and undeniable. It had been a long time coming, but finally there was understanding that no war can ever be won, there is no victory in war, only comparative losses. The thought occurred then that the lady who had brought in the note of thanks should be given a seat at the Paris Conference table. As a constant reminder of what war really means, she might give some impetus to the search for peace.

Lively Corpse

From Raleigh comes the word: James Gardner is not dead. The state’s number one Republican vote-getter isn’t even resting, in fact. From the way he’s been acting of late, you’d never know he lost the gubernatorial race last November. That November defeat was the narrowest in recent state history, if you recall, and having victory snatched away from him has apparently just made Gardner want it more... so much so that his Raleigh political headquarters is still open for business and buzzing.

Gardner's got a lot going for him—youth, but enough gray hairs to make him appear mellow; a smooth—albeit slightly forked tongue; sex appeal; a well-oiled organization; and supporters. About the only thing James Gardner seems to lack, in fact, is something to run for. May we suggest grand dragon of the state klan?

‘Most Bad Things Happen After...’

—Kelbaw S. Mintiy

Anti-ROTC Group Talks To Trustees

ED. NOTE: The following statement was presented to the Executive Board of the Board of Trustees on Jan. 16. The four signees, representing the Ad Hoc Committee for Voluntary ROTC were invited to the meeting by President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

There are three closely related points which we think are highly relevant to the question of voluntary ROTC. The first of these involves the moral issue of an individual becoming a part of an organization which is dedicated to taking the lives of other human beings. Participation in such an organization involves actions which are highly questionable to anyone committed to the Christian faith. We do not think that a Christian oriented liberal arts school should force its students in any one direction on such a question which involves a very personal, moral decision.

Secondly, we think the question of academic freedom is of central importance. We refer mainly to the Blue Sky Committee report which emphasizes student decision making under a flexible curriculum. We do not think that compulsory ROTC is in keeping with that report. In fact, the original report states: “ROTC will be made voluntary, and the student will receive no academic credit for his military science courses.”

Thirdly, we would like to mention the Code of Responsibility proposed by the Committee on Rules and Punishment, a committee composed of students and faculty, including two members of the religion department.department. The code states that its aim “is to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions . . . (and that) Responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions."

It is our feeling that compulsory ROTC is not in keeping with this concept of responsible student decision-making. We feel that a voluntary program can be set up at Davidson. Such a program would include an intensive orientation program at the beginning of the freshman year with presentations for and against ROTC. If the program is truly voluntary, it should also include the provision that a student could withdraw from the program at any time that he made such a decision. In short, it is our contention that compulsory ROTC violates the basic concepts of both the Blue Sky Committee and CRAP reports, that it hampers the student in making a moral decision of utmost importance.

The above represents in our minds a very valid position. We have therefore decided to hold an open forum in the Spring to present both this view in more detail and to raise questions about whether students should enter ROTC. We would like to invite you, the members of the Trustee Executive Committee, to participate in that forum in order to provide an opportunity for you to communicate freely with students in not only the realm of ideas, but in the area of pragmatic decisions affecting student lives.

Rey English
Cary Turner
Mike Nerris
Bob Grady

Post Mortem; Memory Stays
By ROBERT PYEATT
Associate Editor

The Saturday Evening Post, once a popular Tuesday publication, has turned into one of the mere memories on which it once thrived. The Post was notable for a long time because it was a relic of an America of Ben Franklin's editorship and Norman Rockwell covers. The passing of the Post is indicative of the passing of rural America. The Post had gotten too far behind the times too fast, and the editorial convulsions it suffered trying to catch up only worsened its condition. The parent company, Curtis Publishing, tried to keep it alive by rapidly switching from the rural to the racy in the last few years. But the splashy layouts always looked a little phony on the staid old Post, and the efforts to produce hard-hitting, incisive articles lacked depth. Nobody under fifty cared for those homely serials about tractor salesmen. Its readers were the first victims of the generation gap as it became far more popular in geriatric wards than pediatrician's offices.

When the present generation of Davidson students were young, the Post consisted mostly of hammy interviews with movie stars and sports figures, with an occasional analysis of some newsworthy event that had occurred six months earlier. The lesson to be learned is that rural America is being passed by. This country is now cosmopolitan, urban, and moving far and fast from the small towns that were once the heart of a growing nation. Small-town institutions like Davidson and small-town students should mourn its passing, for they were both its topics and its true believers.

Graham: Responsibility Is More Potent Than Coercion
To The Editor:

The recent columns of Bob Reid and Charles McEwen dealing with government call for some comment. Reid and McEwen make one enlightening assertion about the student government — and only one. That is that Davidson's student government is not a true government, for, in Reid's words, it “has neither final authority nor ultimate control over (the) situation.” However, Reid is quick to confuse the issue by quoting Ray Mungo: “Student leaders do not exist, because they lack ultimate authority and ultimate control.” But is it necessary that a man have ultimate power in order that he be considered a leader? There are, in fact, a great many leaders who do not have ultimate power, as well as a great many organizations which do not, but which nevertheless accomplish a great deal.

McEwen says, “At best, student ‘government’ can only be a lobbying force, an organized group that will pressure the faculty who in turn will pressure the trustees. This pressure, this coercion, is the power that brings about change on this campus." He goes on to show that all the important changes in Davidson life have been brought about by the use of defiant pressure. He argues that drinking on campus was allowed because of the pressure of student abuses: “Student niggers first showed their power of coercion by flagrantly disobeying the faculty's drinking rule. And the administration really couldn't exercise their power for the rule’s enforcement.”

But if this sort of student pressure has so effectively brought about change in college policy on vespers, drinking on campus, and open dorms, as McEwen asserts, why has it taken 129 years of abuses to end vespers, 131 years to institute drinking, and 131 years to establish open dorms? The evidence seems rather to indicate that student abuses were not the deciding cause. A more likely cause in the case of the last two is the formation of a body to regulate these institutions. Open dorms and drinking on campus would not have been ratified without the formation of the Residence Hall Association. We owe these changes to an increase of student responsibility rather than to continued student irresponsibility.

I do not wish to blow up out of proportion the importance of McEwen’s column since few people take DAVIDSONIAN columns seriously. But hypothetically speaking, if anyone were to make a concerted effort to follow McEwen’s program for change, it is unlikely that the resulting distrust between the student body and the administration and trustees would bring about any more true progress at Davidson than did the first 130 years of Davidson's history.

Den Graham, ’70
Davidson College

That Dastardly Exam Proposal

Thank heavens the faculty had the good sense to reject that dastardly self-scheduled exams proposal. If this proposal went into effect, then most students would probably take their examinations as soon as possible, leaving their poor professors behind to grade papers during vacation. During this time the faculty could be writing great scholarly works, enhancing their reputation and that of the school. Grading a flood of papers would rob them of valuable writing time.

“Geez, I sure am glad the self-scheduling notion didn’t pass,” said Irving Snerd, director of the Davidson College Press. “Why, think of it, a world deprived of Davidsoniana and robbed of great works written by that community of scholars! All that loss, just so a bunch of long-haired, spoiled brats can get an education the easy way.” “More vacation,” he shrieked! “Why, don’t you know that more evil takes place after mid-term. Keep ‘em busy. Besides, police at resorts have such a control problem during vacation that it’s our duty to help with security by keeping students occupied. Neighbors complain of the holiday noise.”

Another professor pointed out a more serious deficiency in the proposal. “Why, do you realize that in paragraph 3, subsection seven, the author of the plan failed to place a comma in its proper place. That made the entire subsection very confusing and inarticulate. Students who don’t know their comma rule should spend more time in the classroom, not at vacation spots.”

Thank goodness the faculty killed once and for all this ridiculous notion. And everyone knows that the best way to kill a proposal is to give it to a committee for further study.

If you like inanity and are tired of reading THE DAVIDSONIAN, try the platforms of those shrewd politicos who come out of the woodwork every year. With such talent around, no wonder student government remains a debating society. And no wonder its chief benefit is to provide positions which look good on graduate school applications.

But fear not, lovers of the SGA, this is a situation which exists at most colleges and universities in the United States. “Student governments” are meaningless in more places than north Mecklenburg County. In fact, the one here may be one of the most effective. At large institutions where students have brought more far-reaching changes than girls in the dormitories, student governments often play a subordinate role in the movements. Ad hoc groups and extra-legal organizations are often the catalysts for change, while student governments lobby for drink machines, pass resolutions, and the like.

And here, students who want positions of leadership and influence ought not to waste their time writing inky platforms for senatorial positions. Most people can't name all their senators anyway. They ought to try to get on various commissions and faculty committees. Members of these groups have the real power positions. They can have a hand in setting policy while their cohorts gain valuable experience in parliamentary procedure and the workings of the SGA Constitution.