A DAVIDSON DILEMMA: Black Students In An Ivory Tower

Blacks at Davidson live with daily frustrations produced by an all-white community. This, the second and last article in the
‘Black Students’ series, tells how it is to be black at Davidson.

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

Perhaps the one feature of big university life which is most evidently lacking from the Davidson campus is that of
a large and viable contingent of black students. The relative low-visibility of Davidson blacks is due not to their lack
of eloquence, nor to a lack of commitment to the goals which are challenging university presidents elsewhere. It's probably just
that Davidson is so small, and so removed, and its black student population composes just one-half of one percent of
the student body.

But in a fully recorded interview last week, four of Davidson's black students were given a chance to air their
views on the black revolution, their own frustrations, and to tell the rest of Davidson what it is like to
be black at Davidson and in the South. The four black students gathered last Thursday evening to speak to the
issues confronting blacks were sophomore James Parks, freshman Ronnie Williams, junior Calvin Murphy, and recent graduate Les Brown.

Ideals vs. Institutions

The issue which seemed to occupy most of the blacks’ attention was the problem of putting Davidson’s ideals into a
proper relation with its institutional sluggishness. The problem, Ron Williams said, is rooted in the very nature of the college.
“Davidson sets up an artificial atmosphere for everybody. Therefore, you don’t have a chance to be yourself and identify with
your people, because you're never put in that situation where you have to.

“Davidson mothers its students too much. It's really a poor environment. It doesn't identify with the rest of the world.
They feel like they want to be a utopia set off from everybody else, and it doesn’t stand up to
its problems.”

Parks was more direct: “It’s kind of like a little country club set off in the backwoods of North Mecklenburg
County. Everybody here is better than the rest of the world, and to protect ourselves here, we should not associate.”

The basic problem, as Davidson's blacks see it, is that while Davidson cherishes sound liberal ideas, the institutional framework of
the college blocks college people from putting their ideals into practice. “Davidson,” said Parks, “is a nice pragmatic, practical institution
that operates with absolutely no principle whatsoever except to say that we are a Christian institution, which makes it sound
good.”

“Davidson as an institution is going to pussyfoot around and take it slow and easy,” Brown added. “Now I'm the
type of person that says if you commit yourself to something you think is right... go ahead and do it.”

“The idea of this as an institution for a liberal education is a crock of bullshit, because a person can
go through this place and never be forced to think about himself. Davidson as an institution doesn't think of how
it influences other people.

“Everywhere else in this country, people in other institutions are (thinking about it). It's a tragedy that a lot of
students go through this place not knowing what lies behind the Post Office.”

“Even to cross Main Street is an entirely new world,” Parks said, “a world where people have problems entirely different
from anything that a Davidson student has ever known existed.”

“It’s a mother womb, you know. A good place to retreat to,” said Brown. “It's a nice place to come
back to, and absorb all the intellectual niceties, and talk abstract about things as they are and make no moral
judgments about them whatever,” Parks added.

“Davidson white students hate townies as bad as they hate niggers. Now that’s a fact. They can't communicate with 'em.”

“When you come to Davidson, you're one black face in a sea of white. In order to survive here, you've
got to fall back on your blackness and be proud of it, work with it, and develop it.”

“Davidson would be perfectly satisfied if the black students were to leave,” Parks indicated. “They would be satisfied if the
town of Davidson didn't exist, because then it wouldn't impose the hardship of having to think about these things at
all.

“What this college has never done is to examine itself internally. They don’t care what goes on outside this campus.
It never considers itself much a part of anything except a big academic utopia.

“They are committed to mild Christian ideals, but they don’t live them. Davidson is a nice place to come to
breed Southern conservative gentlemen.”

The Black And White Of It

The one safe conclusion which one might draw from the interview is that the black students at Davidson are a
group whose motives for being at Davidson are quite different from those of the average white. Like probably every other
black American, the black “Davidson Gentleman” is fundamentally concerned with helping his race. Parks was quite honest: “And you can
develop a greater commitment, after living in an all-white world, to go back and help our brothers and sisters. I
feel no loyalty to the school itself. I want to use what I'm learning from Davidson... to help the black
people of the United States to get a better deal.

“We also learn how you think, how you work, what your ideas are, what you think is important, and we
can use that. I can more or less know what somebody in a power structure is going to say and
why they are going to say it and how to counter his argument. That'll help. We also pick up a
lot of white ideas and get used to the good life.”

“We feel,” Brown added, “that we know more about white folks than a lot of black students on other campuses,
simply because we live with (whites) every day. The only good thing that’s going to come out of it is
that we're going to learn all this bullshit that you're teaching us, and we may have to use it against
you.”

To Be... Or Not To Be Violent

The necessity for organization and the possibility of violence were ever-present themes in the discussion. While the four seemed in
agreement that violence was a tactical consideration in the Black Revolution, they sounded a warning that it was only right
that the white man could expect violence in return for his past treatment of the Negro race. Nonviolence has been
the result of fear of white retaliation, Brown said. The time has come when blacks will see through the white
claim that whites respond only to nonviolence.

“Most black people,” said Brown, “are nonviolent. But most whites are not. People don't respect you for loving them. They
respect you when you show them that you are just as much a human being as they are.”

Violence, in fact, has been shown to be an effective weapon, Parks said. He cited recent campus disturbances as examples.
“What the college will do is gather a show, and the dean will say, ‘Any guy who disrupts the campus,
in 15 minutes we'll throw him out.’ He'll say it... but after the demonstrations are over he implements practically everything
that was demanded.

“Now the question I have is, Why weren’t the demands as good before as after?”

Speaking Across Stereotypes

Perhaps the lightest moments in the drama came when the conversation turned to the difficulties blacks encounter in trying to
reach across barriers erected by racial stereotyping. Brown was eager to talk about it. “The white student here, you know,
thinks he is much less prejudiced, but he ain't, you know. I can get along with the cat, but my
brothers across the tracks can't.”

“It’s kind of like...a fellow patting you on the back and saying, ‘Brown, you're a good nigger.’”

“You know it’s the real little things that bug a cat so much,” Brown continued. “I remember last year. Maloy
and I were over in the Union... and this chick comes up and asks us, ‘Will ya'll dance with me?'
She said, ‘You know I just love to watch you dance!’

“I guess I should have said, ‘we’re going to go outside and we’re gonna eat a watermelon and then we'll
dance for you.’”

“Or you walk into the Union,” Parks interrupted, “and you’re sitting there, and some guy walks up to you out
of the blue and asks you what turn the Black Revolution is going to take tomorrow.”

“When I first came here,” Brown resumed, “one of the most exciting things you could do if you were black
is to go into the library and watch Chalmers Davidson jump from one side of the stairs to the other
when you were going up.”

“Or things like this: ‘Ronnie Williams, why don't you wear an Afro?' I don’t like Afros; they make my hair
hurt. ‘You’re black. You've got to have an Afro. Be a perfect token.’”

“You're not supposed to have feelings,” Parks began. “You're not supposed to, for some reason, to even have dates. You're
not supposed to pass courses without a great amount of difficulty.

“You've got to sweat it out because you came from a ghetto school, and you don't know anything—except about the
black revolution, about which you know everything.

“You're supposed to be oh so happy that they gave you the opportunity to sit in on this great dispensation
of knowledge. As far as I'm concerned, they can take it all and cram it.”

The Many Disadvantages

Perhaps the most fatalistic note of the evening was sounded by Jim Parks in discussing the effects on blacks of
coming to a predominantly white school. “We're supposed to forget our race and fit into the mold,” he said. “That's
the biggest bunch of bullshit I've heard of. How is a black person going to come here... be subjected to
total domination, and be expected to take it? A black student here is bound to be bitter.”

Indeed, the special problems of adjustment faced by blacks are staggering. Black students feel that admissions standards, for example, are
much harder for Negroes.

The net result of many such minor discouragements, and major ones as well, is that blacks are made to feel
that they are not getting very much from Davidson College. “If I know anything today, it’s not what they gave
me up on the hill but because I got it on my own,” Brown said. "When (the first Negroes came),
Davidson should have thought well in advance of some of their problems. Ron here is undergoing the same problems I
had when I came here (four years ago). The situation hasn't changed one damn bit.”

April 18, 1969 Page Three The Davidsonian

Up From (White) Liberalism

One of the curious revelations which came out of this discussion was the resentment Davidson blacks feel toward moderate white
liberals. “A lot of Davidson students feel that they are liberals.” Parks said. “They may even be ‘bleeding heart’ liberals.
They're the people that speak to me all the time. Everybody, even Chalmers Davidson, speaks to me.

“Even when I'm half a mile away: ‘Hey! How're you doing?!’ A white has got to speak to me to
show me how liberal he is. Or tell me his grandfather was a Northerner in the Civil War who freed
all his slaves or something, or his best friend is a ‘Nigra.’

“You know, I don’t really give a damn personally. I'm suspicious of people who are always so friendly.

“They may be hiding the fact that they hate my guts; and they're probably afraid that they do, but they've
got to convince me and themselves that they don't.”

All four who were present for the interview agreed that the attitudes of American blacks toward white people are becoming
less naive. The infant civil rights movement of the late Fifties and early Sixties, Williams said, was based on the
tacit understanding that in order for anything to be accomplished white people had to come in and “help the Negroes
out.”

“Something that'll turn the white liberal on this campus off sooner than anything else is to tell him ‘Well if
you really want to do something, don’t come working with black people,’” Brown said. “We don't need you, because it's
self-defeating. We have to develop our own local level leadership.”

“If he asks (me), ‘Well, what can I do?’, I tell you what: you go over across the tracks and
don't go into the black part of the town, but go over where the mill workers are. Or why don’t
you go home, you know, and talk to your parents?”

“What it is, is that (whites thought) the black man wants to be part of the white world, and (whites)
are condescending to help us get there,” Parks began. “There are some students who think and know that there are
some things wrong with white people in this country, but they don’t have the commitment, or the desire, or they
don’t want to catch all the hell that they're going to catch if they go to the white community with
the problem of blacks.”

One question which stirred fiery responses was the question of whether admitting more blacks would strip off the “veneer of
liberalism” and expose more white prejudice. “The end would be very much more constructive than just having a body that
really doesn't have the power to do anything,” Williams began.

“So what if we bring it (prejudice) up?” Brown interrupted. “If it exists here, it should expose itself. I've got
this hangup about being honest, but I can dig on a cat who's a white racist much more so than
the white liberal with the shitty grin on his face. I know how to deal with him.”

“If you've got only five black students there’s not enough here really to make a psychological dent,” Parks said. “So
long as there's just enough to look over there’s no coming to grips with the problem.

“But admit 40, 50, 100... then you're going to see all sorts of latent racism bubbling over.”

All four relished the thought of having more blacks at Davidson. With more blacks, said Parks “they are going to
have to start instituting procedures whereby things can really be changed here. It's a beautiful thing to really try to
get something done here as a student because the faculty and administration have a ‘nice little set-up.’

“Dean Burts is paid... to do exactly what the faculty wants him to do.” The faculty uses the administration to
tell the students what they can and cannot do, while it is the faculty all the time who makes the
decisions although it hesitates to confront students personally with the rules.

If the white liberal has failed personally and in his institutions, that failure has been nowhere more apparent than in
the institution of white charity.

Calvin Murphy, who joined the interview late, pointed out that a generation gap exists within the black community on just
that point. “I go home now, and some white lady has given us a bunch of clothes. My mother still
does not understand how I get pissed off. (See BLACK, Page 6)
