‘THE CANDIDATES INTERVIEWED (See Page Six)

LVO College-Church Relationship: ‘Not A Balance Sheet’

By CHARLES McEWEN
Associate Editor

The First of Three Articles

$66,529.51

That is the amount that Davidson College received in direct support from the Presbyterian Church, U.S., last year. For this
small amount in relationship to a total income of about $3 million, the church elects 37 of Davidson's 51 trustees,
and 17 of those 37 now serving on the board are ministers.

When dealing with Davidson's relationship with the church, however, such figures have only a relative significance. It is true that
Davidson receives a small amount in direct support from the Synod of North Carolina, from the Synod of Florida, and
from Asheville Presbytery. Then immediately one faces the question of how much money is given to the college from individuals
and foundations because it is either a Presbyterian school or a church-related school.

If one assumes the role of a devil's advocate and consciously seeks incongruities in Davidson’s relationship with the church, a
larger incongruity is found in the composition of the Board of Trustees, the college’s governing body. About half of the
men elected by the church's presbyteries are ministers. Yet only two men, J. McDowell Richards and W. T. Thompson, who
have served as trustees in the last 10 years by election by the Alumni Association, have been ministers. There are
no ministers currently serving on the board by alumni election.

Further, in a survey of 8,544 alumni taken in 1963-64, slightly more than one-tenth of those men were actively engaged
in the church ministry, and only 684 men, still less, in the Presbyterian ministry. If the assumption that the governing
body of an institution should reflect the profession and vocation attitudes of its graduates is a valid one, the Board
of Trustees seems to include a preponderance of ministers. Although the presbyteries elect a large number of ministers to the
board, the Alumni Association obviously does not elect ministers in the same proportion.

But in dealing with the relationship of Davidson and the church, there are many intangibles that cannot be measured by
amounts of money and membership in its governing body or by words. Despite all criticism and foment for change, the
tradition that Davidson is a Presbyterian school, a church-related school, ‘‘a safe place to send your son,” is a long
and cherished one. The character of “is-ness” at Davidson is perhaps the major reason that the status quo on major
and controversial issues is so stoically maintained.

Incongruities aside, Davidson is still bound to the Presbyterian Church with an umbilical cord of piano wire, if trustee opinion
means anything. The Rev. John N. Miller of Rocky Mount, a trustee elected by Albemarle Presbytery, favored election of trustees
by the presbyteries and saw no need at the present to disassociate David- (See CHURCH, Page 6)

Ian And Sylvia To Return

Returning to Davidson for Mid-Winters Feb. 14-15 will be Ian and Sylvia. The duo, which is known for modern folk
music, has been well received at Davidson before. For the next concert weekend, Jan. 24-25, Jerry Butler will appear in
concert Saturday night after Davidson plays The Citadel in Johnston Gym. On Friday night of the concert weekend, Eddie Floyd
will be featured at a combo party from 8 to 12 p.m. in the Chambers Basement dining hall. Floyd is
best known for his hit “Knock on Wood.” The dining hall will be a designated drinking area. Old flicks —
possibly W. C. Fields and Charlie Chaplin — will be shown in the Morrison Room of the Union following Butler’s
concert Saturday night.

IAN AND SYLVIA

Trustees Hear Anti-ROTC Arguments; Grant Received

The Trustee Executive Committee heard the announcement of a $235,000 Duke Endowment grant and arguments for voluntary ROTC at its
meeting yesterday in Charlotte. Members of the ‘‘Ad Hoc Committee for Voluntary ROTC” attended the meeting and presented a proposal
for making ROTC, presently required for most students during the first two years, completely voluntary. The SGA Senate voted in
November to recommend that ROTC be made completely voluntary. In a Nov. 19 resolution, it recommended that the drop-add period
for ROTC be extended to two weeks, during which time freshmen would undergo an extensive orientation in the ROTC program.

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced the Duke Endowment Grant, which will be divided into six parts. $100,000 will be
committed to increases in faculty and staff salaries. $80,000 will be used to buy more library books ‘‘to help put
us on a level with the best college libraries and to meet the demands of the new curriculum for

Cannon Freshmen Arrange Basement Relaxation Area

By JOHN McLEAN
Staff Writer

Freshmen in Cannon dormitory have converted a basement storage room into a lounge and TV room. Conceived by dorm Senator
Stewart Rogers and approved by unanimous vote of the dormitory members, the project was supported by Mrs. Peter Nichols, director
of student housing. ‘‘We had the greatest cooperation from Mrs. Nichols,’’ said Rogers. “and Dr. Spencer even wrote us a
note to tell us he thought it was a good idea."

The school maintenance crew did most of the hard work: plastering the walls, installing a linoleum floor, fixing a door
and window. The dorm residents had to clean the storage room, which had been filled with mattresses, and painted the
room with paint provided by the college. Members of Cannon dorm will not have to spend any of their own
money on the project, though some students have contributed furniture and a TV. Rogers expressed the hope that the college
will finance such projects again in the future. He said Mrs. Nichols had said the college is planning to renovate
the dorms next year and is not eager to donate large sums for lounges at this time.

The furniture and TV for the new Cannon lounge arrived last Wednesday. Rogers said that the lounge was “just for
members of Cannon,” but that this did not mean other students “couldn't ever put a foot in the door.” Once
the lounge is in operation, the RHA will supervise the enforcement of hours, rules, and damages to private property. The
lounge will be open all the time during weekends and on weekday nights.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

more library materials.” A new library building will take up another $50,000. Salaries for new faculty members, particularly in the
field of non-Western studies, will receive $35,000. A $10,000 amount will be used for “faculty recognition and encouragement," specifically for
special grants to faculty members for research and travel abroad. The final $10,000 will be for Davidson's Liberal Arts Program
for Public School Teachers, which stresses ‘non-methodology courses for teaching certificate renewal. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

FRESHMAN LOUNGE, FRESHMAN BUILT

A spruced-up storage room in Cannon’s basement dence Hall Association. Tom Opie, Ed Dobbs, and Jim Trussell filed for the
office. Juniors Jim May and Tom Bersuder will oppose each other for Union Board president, and juniors Harrell Rentz and
Danny McLawhorn will be candidates for Quips and Cranks editor. All candidates for editor must be nominated by the Publications
Board, which is expected to meet today at chapel. Three pairs of juniors filed for co-freshman adviser: Bruce Wolff and
Romey Fisher; Cliff Patterson and Mac Davis; and Ken Crews and Mike Culbreth. No juniors filed for the class’s position
on the Regulations Court. Juniors running for Honor Court are Johnny Lientz, Jerry Kroll, Charles Newton, Dave Wasserman, and John
Rowe. The sole sophomore running for Regulations Court was Ken Prestwich, who may take office when confirmed by the Senate.
The 11 sophomore candidates for Honor Court are Reif Kessler, Steve Roady, John Bolinger, George Wagoner, Kim Griffith, Lewis Tabb,
Alan Kirkpatrick, Jeff Brantley, Mark Affeldt, Ed Shoaf, and Tim McCaulay. Freshman candidates for Regulations Court are Kenny Timmons, David
Grissett, Jay Ball, Vance Simpson, and Jon Jacobs. Running for Honor Court are 22 freshmen: Rick Michaels, Zack Mobley, Mark
Meza, Steve Erlandson, Duff Bruce, Jack Scott, Tom Easterling, Kurt Geisinger, Al Norris, Will Ryan. Also, Robin Gray, BU Hobbs,
Richard Bush, Robert Truitt, Jack Thomas, Paul Nelson, Ernie Shipe, John Douglas, Bob Wallace, Greg Johnson, Bill Powell, and Charlie
Summers.

Herd For Presidency

MEET THE CANDIDATES

A 26-year-old former Marine who terms himself a conservative, a constitution writer who has gained open dorms without an open
door rule, and an IFC member who is also a hall counselor are the three candidates for the second SGA
Presidency. Each candidate was interviewed by the Editorial Board of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and the results have been compiled and analyzed
by Editor-in-Chief Robbie Hooker, on Page 6 of today’s DAVIDSONIAN.

Faculty To Air Proposals On Exams, Dorm

Proposals for self-scheduled examinations and for open dormitories at Davidson will be two of the major items to be decided
at Tuesday's faculty meeting. Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston said that the self-scheduled exams proposal will be outlined in
a letter which he will send to the faculty prior to the meeting. Already approved by the faculty Educational Policy
Committee, the proposal if passed by the faculty could be put into operation this term. Under the proposed system for
self-scheduled exams, each student would be able to select his own final examination schedule time at the end of each
term. At the same meeting, the Residence Hall Association Constitution will be voted on, and will provide for open dorms
at Davidson, if passed. The open dorm rules were long besieged by opposition from some of the faculty members on
the Student Life Committee, including Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., before the committee finally reported the proposal out.
If the Residence Hall Constitution is passed, it is possible that dormitories be opened for the concert weekend Jan. 25.
A Senate proposal, which would decrease the quantity of required chapel programs and increase the quality of the speakers brought
to Davidson, is still being discussed in a faculty committee and will not be voted on at the faculty meeting,
Johnston said. Likewise, the Senate proposal to make changes in the basic ROTC program at Davidson has been delayed.

CONVENTION HEADACHES

Chicago Easier? Senate Wonders

It's about as easy to have a convention at Davidson as it is in Chicago, the student Senate discovered this
week. First, there were credentials problems: a red-faced Senate discovered it had placed a University of South Carolina student on
the constitutional convention, instead of a Davidson freshman. A matter of mistaken identity, it later turned out. Then came personnel
problems: no one could be induced to run. One senator was seen stopping everyone he met between Chambers and the
post office, but he could pick up only two freshmen. And so the election of the convention which was scheduled
for last Friday was reset for yesterday. By yesterday, the Senate still hadn't found its conventioneers. If it finds the
necessary 29 students by this morning, then things are set for a sequel to last October's convention, in which changes
to adapt to the Code of Responsibility were supposedly approved. However, last year's fast-moving convention decided to leave certain conflicts
between its constitution and the Code, hoping for later Code revisions. The Code revisions have been made, have been approved
in principle by the faculty Student Life Committee, and will go to the faculty and students along with whatever constitutional
changes are adopted.

Senate Misses Quorum

The student Senate Tuesday failed to obtain a quorum, falling seven short of the required 16 present. Elections Board Chairman
Frank Murphy made several announcements to those present about elections, and President Joe Murphy dismissed the senators after checking to
see if there were any urgent business.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
