Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Six The Davidsonian Holland Describes ‘The Castle,’ October 10, 1969

From The ‘Sweet’ To The ‘Raw’

One of the most memorable parts of the recent faculty trip to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, was the visit to the
United States Detention Barracks. J. Gill Holland, Assistant Professor of English, related the experiences which follow and said he bet
such a visit there or to a closer prison would make some students consider penology as a vocation.

Take the sweeter and more civilized things first and then the raw stuff which came out clearer at lunch after
the morning tour. Inside the wall the warden, an Army colonel, briefed the group first and began, “Gentlemen, our population
this morning was 1277.” The colonel went over a number of things, such as the possibilities of rehabilitation from learning
trades to taking college courses (“If his sentence is long enough he gets an Associate in Arts Degree.”)

Next, an Army lieutenant colonel showed the visitors through trade shops where inmates were learning upholstery, electrical repair work, and
so on; the brightest inmates even had a computer to study. Next was the seven-wing building housing the cell blocks,
which was affectionately known as the Castle. The Air Force major in charge there took the visitors by cells, the
mess hall, the gymnasium, and the chapels; so they got a little more of the feel of life on the
inside.

Sometimes you could see the individuality of the men that lived there: Rodriguez, B. 48191, had added “The Rod” above
his name, and an artist had painted attractive sylvan scenes of streams and running deer in the mess hall (the
colonel's slide show revealed he had painted over two signs on the wall: DO NOT ACCEPT MORE FOOD THAN YOU
CAN EAT EAT ALL YOU ACCEPT). In the Catholic chapel, a counterfeiter had printed scenes from the life of Christ.
The priest explained they were not original; he preferred copying. In the Protestant chapel, there were no services for Presbyterians
held; they were included in a catch-all service. The priest told Dr. Davidson that there were no Presbyterians there.

Outside the Castle, the group talked to some of the eight psychiatrists and psychologists in charge of mental health in
the USDB (across the way at the federal penitentiary there is one psychiatrist in charge of 2500 inmates). Holland said
he was a little perplexed because at first the talk was about the mental hygiene of the guards rather than
the inmates. For example, one successful technique involved the help of a Negro inmate who had volunteered to play the
role of a black militant. He confronted two new guards, one white and one Negro, and verbally burned them up;
then he called it off, and they talked over the experience. A week later a real black militant tried it
in the Castle for real and they could handle it. In any case, the concern with the guards’ mental well-being
was a little clearer when you realized they carried no weapons and were of an average age of 19.

At lunch at the Prison Farm Colony outside the walls, Holland said he was lucky enough to be at the
table with the major in charge of the Castle and learn what the officers as well as the guards really
had on their hands. The major remarked that his work was often depressing. This was a new note since everybody
you had seen seemed quite competent and concerned with rehabilitating the inmates (who were on the whole one-time offenders of
an average age of 20—it's 39 at the federal pen—and an average sentence of only 13 months). “Well,” he said,
“I begin the week reviewing cases and last day for an example of talking to an inmate up from solitary
confinement. He was a big guy about 250, 6-6, one of the 60 or 70 that cause most of the
trouble. He took on the five of us and was at it about ten minutes before we could hold him
down. What do you do with somebody like that? They go back down into the hole, get out, beat up
somebody, go back down. Like a yoyo. As a last resort, you can send them over to the federal prison
and they're afraid of that. It's not that bad really, but nobody gets back to tell them. But your best
men are the long termers, like the murderers and rapists. They make the best inmates and stay down here at
the farms.” And several in the faculty group had noticed walking through the sleeping quarters of these men a picture
of Gandhi by one of the beds.

(Staff photo by Lyle)

THE REAL EU-HALL ETCHINGS

Davidson and Park display new library gift.

ABORTION SYMPOSIUM

Fifty-one etchings by the late Louis Orr, world-renowned etcher, are on display in the Lobby of the Davidson College Library.
The set, entitled “Etchings of North Carolina,” was presented to the college by Thomas Franklin Staley of the Class of
1924, and includes an engraving of the Eumenean Hall at Davidson College and a large print of the North Carolina
State Capitol. Louis Orr, 1879-1966, was regarded by some as one of the greatest etchers of all time. During the
First World War, Orr was made a member of the French Legion of Honor for his remarkable etchings of Rheims
cathedral, made while the area was under German artillery bombardment in 1917.

“A Question Of Life Or Death” — By STEPHEN ROADY Staff Writer

“Abortion: A Question of Life or Death,” a symposium sponsored jointly by the Richardson Fellowship Program and the Public Speakers
Series, will be presented on Wed., Oct. 22 at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. As stated in the publicity brochure,
the symposium “is

Williams Asks Suspension Of Examination Program

At the next meeting of the faculty, Dr. T. A. Williams, associate professor of French, intends to move to suspend
Area Examinations “pending study of alternate plans.” In a special report given to the faculty, Williams claims that the Area
Examinations do not constitute a new educational experience. The students preparing to take the exams “still had to read someone
else's list of books, guess what someone else would think was important, write answers which would prove acceptable in someone
else's eyes.” Williams adds that the essay questions in the language, literature, and the arts Area Examination are so complicated
that “only a specialist could really answer well.” Yet he maintains that “any bull artist can pass” them. On the
same exam, Williams points out, the essays are followed by identification, designed to show whether or not the student has
really read the material. But most of the students will pass anyway, because, Williams says, “It’s hard for a man
with a Ph.D. to fail a freshman or sophomore for not knowing the answers to questions which he would have
a hard time answering himself.”

Williams expresses

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Sympathy for the student who conscientiously tries to prepare for
the Area Examinations. "In his place," he says, "I would be outraged by the exams—outraged by the excessive time required
for preparation, outraged by questions which in some areas don’t match the possibilities of preparation (literature and the arts) and
in others depend more on photographic recall than anything else.

"But beyond that," Williams continues, "I would be struck dumb with fury when it finally occurred to me, as it
surely would, that the faculty understands all of these things as clearly as I do, but has not done anything
about it except decide tacitly to be as sloppily permissive in the grading of the exams as it was in
the making of them."

He notes one of the major arguments in favor of the Area Examinations concerned the 3-3-2 arrangement, under which the
student takes three courses in the fall and winter terms and two courses in the spring term. According to supporters
of Area Exams, he says, "lower faculty load, semester leaves, student internships, etc. require the 3-3-2. The 3-3-2 can be
justified only if we have the Area Exams. We want to keep the leaves and internships, so we're stuck with
the Area Exams. If we eliminated the exams and did not put a third course back in, students might loaf
in the spring."

Williams, however, maintains that "there is no necessary connection between the two-course spring and the Area Exams. We could easily
have one without the other, or neither." He cites three questions which he maintains must be answered. "Why did we
want to remake the curriculum? Is the activity called Area Exams consistent with our intention? Can't we use the time
they take up in ways which are consistent with our intentions?"

In an attempt to explore responsibly and constructively the abortion controversy, "The effective combination of relevant fact and thoughtful opinion
will help to shatter the myths while provoking deeper thought about the agonizing dilemma of abortion—a matter of life or
death."

Dr. John Asher, a graduate of Harvard Medical School who presently serves as the director of Abortion Surveillance at Grady
Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, will open the symposium with a brief talk concerning the current state of the abortion problem.
Asher will then show two short films, one of which will be a video-taped interview with a woman who had
a therapeutic abortion at Grady Hospital. Following the films, a panel of men from the three broad areas on which
the abortion problem impinges will answer questions from the audience. This panel will consist of Asher; Robert B. Cordie, a
Charlotte lawyer; and the Rev. Will Terry, minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Junior Jimmy Trussell, who organized the symposium, said that the purpose of the symposium is to bring the abortion problem
out into the open. He said that an estimated 1.2 million illegal abortions take place in the United States each
year, but that many people are unaware that a real problem exists. Most abortions are illegal because, Trussell says, the
original laws forbidding abortion were passed in the 1820s on the grounds that surgery was unsafe. These laws have remained
on the books in all but a few states.

ROTC Goes On As 90 Drop It
By BILL ESKRIDGE
Staff Writer

Colonel Virgil P. Foster, the head of Davidson's ROTC Department, noted that 160 sophomores had elected to continue ROTC this
year. This figure represents a drop of only 90 students from last year’s enrollment of 250 men in freshman ROTC.

Lesesne (Continued From Page 1)

Where: messes, BOQ's, exchanges, offices. One rarely encounters an English-speaking Vietnamese on the street. On my camera tour off the
main streets, where Americans rarely go, my camera does the communicating. Some older people believe the camera captures their spirit
and refuse to be photographed. But most like it. And the kids love it. The streets are alive with photographic
potential. Every conceivable activity takes place in the streets: people sleep there, they have their hair cut there, they conduct
their business, they urinate. The building style is conducive to this: most houses have no front wall, nor door. Just
a collapsing metal gate. The whole building opens onto the street. At night the people just drive their Hondas and
automobiles into the living room and pull the gate closed. Shopkeepers display all their goods on the street. Every corner
has a mobile restaurant. A small stand that features soft drinks and spiced food. Frequently the proprietor tends a small
charcoal fire for cleaning utensils and heating food. Mechanics take their tools to a vacant corner and voila, a garage
for ailing Hondas.

The vibrancy of the street life affects anyone who ventures into the middle of it. One has to banter with
the people and laugh with them when they’re amused by a person speaking Vietnamese with a Carolina accent.

When questioned on the reasons for continuing ROTC, Foster concluded, "Well, these men are motivated to continue their ROTC training
so that they can participate in the last two years of the program, for which they are paid $50 a
month, and eventually receive a commission in the army." Foster went on to say, "An added attraction this year is
the 59 leadership positions that will be open to sophomores. And by the spring this number will be between 64
and 69."

Although the drop-add procedure for ROTC is essentially the same as for other courses, Major Frederick E. Brigham, the MS
II instructor, noted that some confusion resulted from the scheduling of drills. Brigham also pointed out that, according to a
poll he was taking, better than 50% of the 90 sophomores dropping ROTC are pre-med students. Therefore, the ROTC program
at Davidson seems to be much alive in spite of speculation that the program would be mortally damaged now that
ROTC is voluntary.

Cumming Writes ‘Heritage’ Article

Professor emeritus of English William P. Cumming has linked early American history with English Tudor literature. Cumming has brought to
light the fact that Hugh Percy, Earl of Northumberland and a relative of the famous “Harry Hotspur” immortalized by Shakespeare
in Henry IV, prevented a disastrous defeat of the British during their retreat from Lexington and the pursuing American rebels.

Cumming’s find, printed in the August edition of American Heritage, resulted from the discovery of a map and some letters
written by Percy. During the hectic British retreat, Percy changed the route of march to avoid suspected heavy resistance at
a key bridge over the Charles River at Cambridge. Cumming discovered the map showing the route of retreat in a
portfolio of maps collected by Percy and compiled monthly by the present earl of Northumberland. The collection had been stored
in Alnwick Castle untouched since the death of Percy.
